FACTS IN BRIEF / CASE SET UP BY THE PROSECUTION 1. The facts as alleged by the prosecution, are hereby succinctly

 recapitulated. It was alleged that on 10.12.2016, at around 3:00 PM,

 C.V Raman Marg, Near Meerabai, Polytechnic Gate, Maharani Bagh

 New Delhi, the accused was found carrying 23.225 grams of smack

 in 208 Pudia. Thereafter, the accused was arrested, and investigation

 was conducted whereafter the present chargesheet came to be filed. CHARGES FRAMED QUA THE ACCUSED 2. Charges under section 21 of NDPS Act, were framed qua the

 accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 1/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 3. In the trial, the prosecution in support of its case, examined 9

 witnesses, the succinct testimonies whereof are as follows: 4. PW-1 Inspector Kuldeep Singh deposed that on 10.12.2016, he was

 posted as SHO in PS NFC. On that day at about 01:05 PM when he

 was present in his office in the PS, SI Anand Prakash came to him

 and informed about the secret information received by him regarding

 possession of smack by a boy and also produced the secret infomer

 before him. He further deposed that after verifying the contents of

 the secret information, he directed SI Anand Prakash to form a

 raiding party and apprehend the said person. Thereafter, after

 forming the raiding party, SI Anand Prakash alongwith other raiding

 team members assisted by secret informer, went to the spot at CV

 Raman Marg, Near Meera Bai Polytechnic College Gate. He further

 deposed that he also reached at the spot where SI Anand Prakash

 produced him four sealed pullandas sealed with the seal of APY

 alongwith FSL form and carbon copy of seizure memo regarding the

 recovery of smack from accused Tajuddin he then counter sealed all

 above pullandas with his seal of KS and also put his seal on FSL

 form. Thereafter, he left the spot alongwith above sealed pullandas

 FSL Form and carbon copy of seizure memo and reached the PS. He

 further deposed that after verifying from duty officer, he called FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 2/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 5. PW-2 Ct. Raman deposed that on 10.12.2016 he was posted as

 Constable in PS, New Friends Colony and was on duty in the PS

 when at about 1.15pm, SI Anand Prakash called him and HC Manoj

 and apprised them about the secret information that one boy would

 come on foot from the side of Sarai Kale Khan towards Taimur

 Nagar with drugs (nashila padarath) at about 2.30pm who can be

 apprehended on raid. SI directed them to join him in civil cloth.

 Thereafter, SI took a private car and he alongwith HC Manoj, SI

 Anand Praksh, HC Nawal and secret informer left the PS after

 recording DDNo. 22B regarding secret information and DD no. 23B

 regarding their departure. They reached near Meera Bail Polytechnic

 College at about 1.30pm where 4-5 passersby were asked to join the

 raiding after disclosing them the secret information by the IO but

 they all refused showing their personal difficulties. Due to paucity of

 time, no written notice was served upon them. They parked their

 vehicle near the main gate of the said college. The informer stood FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 3/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 6.40pm At 7.30pm IO arrested the accused who was handed over to

 him by SI Anand Prakash. The arrest and personal search memos of

 accused were proved as Ex. PW2/C and D, both bearing his

 signature at point A respectively. The accused was interrogated and

 his disclosure statement Ex. PW2/E was recorded by the IO which

 also bore his signature at point A. 2nd IO also prepared site plan at

 the instance of 1st IO. Thereafter they all returned to PS with

 accused. From the PS, the accused was taken to hospital for medical

 extermination by him and HC Manoj on the direction of the IO. After

 medical examination they brought the accused to PS. Later on, the

 2nd IO recorded his statement in this case. 6. PW-3 ASI Manoj Kumar deposed that on 10.12.2016 he was

 posted as Head Constable in PS, New Friends Colony and was on

 duty in the PS. At about 1.15 p.m. SI Anand Prakash called him and

 Ct. Raman and apprised them about the secret information that one

 boy would come on foot from the side of Sarai Kale Khan towards

 Taimur Nagar with smack at about 2.30-3.00 p.m. who can be

 apprehended with smack if raided. He directed them to join him in

 civil cloth. Thereafter, he/first IO took a private car and he alongwith

 Ct Raman, SI Anand Praksh, HC Nawal and secret informer left the FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 6/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 7.30 pm second IO SI Janak Singh arrested the accused who was

 handed over to him by SI Anand Prakash. The arrest and personal

 search memos of accused were proved as Ex. PW2/C and D, both

 bearing his signature at point B respectively. The accused was

 interrogated and his disclosure statement Ex. PW2/E was recorded

 by the IO which also bears his signature at point B. 2 nd IO also

 prepared site plan at the instance of 1 st IO. Thereafter they all

 returned to PS with accused. From the PS, the accused was taken to

 hospital for medical extermination by him and Ct. Raman on the

 direction of the IO. After medical examination they brought the

 accused to PS. Later on, the 2nd IO recorded his statement in this FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 9/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: PW7/A. In compliance of Section 42 NDPS Act, the copy of DD No.

 22 was sent to senior officers. He then prepared a raiding party

 consisting he, HC Manoj, HC Naval and Ct. Raman. He collected the

 IO bag and weighing machine from the police station. Thereafter,

 alongwith the secret informer they proceeded from the police station FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 12/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: He then weighed the substance with one transparent polythene on the

 electronic weighing machine and it was found to be 23.225 grams.

 He drew two samples of 1 gram each from the said substance. The

 said samples were kept in two separate polythene pouches and the

 said pouches were converted into clothe parcels. The numbers 1A

 and 1B were given to the samples. The remaining substance in the

 polythene was also converted into cloth parcel and serial no 1 was

 given to it. He gave numbers to paper pudiyas 1 to 208. All the

 paper pudiyas alongwith two transparent polythenes recovered from FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 14/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: However, the submissions qua non compliance of Section 52 A of

 NDPS Act deserve merit. 20. At this juncture, it would be apt to peruse the following testimony of

 PW-2 Constable Raman, who deposed as thus: Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 21. The above testimony makes it explicit that the samples were drawn

 on the spot. Nowhere the witness submitted that the contraband was

 seized or it was produced before the Ld. Magistrate in compliance of Section 52 A of NDPS Act for the purposes of drawing samples

 therefrom. Further, it would be pertinent to peruse the testimony of

 PW-3 ASI Manoj who also corroborated the version of PW-2 Ct

 Raman: 22.Further, the other recovery witness namely PW-7 Anand Prakash also

 substantiated the version of PW- 2 Ct Raman and PW 3 ASI Manoj. FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 23/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 23. Significantly, PW-7 retired SI Anand Prakash averred in his cross-

 examination that no proceedings u/s 52A of NDPS Act was

 conducted. Further, PW-8 Inspector Janak Singh also averred in his

 cross-examination that he has not conducted the proceedings u/s 52 FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 24/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 24. Thus, it is apparent that the samples were drawn immediately at the

 spot after the seizure of contraband item from the accused and they

 were not drawn before the Ld. Magistrate. 25.At this juncture, it would be germane to reproduce the relevant

 extracts of verdict of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India laid down in

 Yusuf @ Asif (supra), whereby the Hon'ble Apex Court has opined

 as thus: 26. The above verdict makes it abundantly explicit that in case the

 samples of the seized contraband are not drawn in the presence a

 Magistrate, the seized samples and contraband would not be a valid

 piece of evidence before the Court. In the present case too, the

 samples were not drawn before the Magistrate as is apparent from

 the testimonies of PW-2 Ct Raman, PW-3 ASI Pankaj, PW-7,

 Retired Anand Prakash and PW-8 SI Janak Singh. CONCLUSION 27.Ergo, in view of the reasons hereinabove discussed in extenso, this FIR No 423/2016 State Vs. Tajuddin Page No. 26/27 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 28. However, in view of the submissions of Ld. Addl PP for State, let

 copy of this judgment as well as copy of Hon'ble Supreme Court

 verdict in Yusuf @ Asif Vs State SLP (Crl) No 3010 of 2023 dated

 13.10.2023, be sent to Worthy Commissioner of Police, Delhi Police,

 to sensitize the police force qua strict compliance of Section 52 A of

 NDPS Act, 1985. Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Announced in the open court VARMA Date: