1) Whether Reporters of the Newspapers may be
 allowed to see the Judgment? Yes/No 2) To be referred to the Reporters or not? Yes/No 3) Whether judgment should be reported in the Digest? Yes/No First Appeal No.9 of 2021 2 Present:- condoning the delay of 283 days in filing the appeal, has been filed against

the order dated 05.03.2020 passed by District Consumer Disputes

Redressal Forum (now 'Commission'), Kapurthala (in short, "District

Commission"), vide which the complaint filed by the complainant under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, was partly allowed

against OPs No.1&2 only, who were jointly and severally liable and

directed to refund the price amount of the mobile phone i.e. Rs.1,24,690/-

to the complainant with interest @12% per annum from the date of delivery

i.e. 8.2.2019 till realization and further to pay compensation to the

complainant for causing mental tension and harassment to the tune of

Rs.15,000/- and litigation expenses of Rs.7,000/-. They were directed to

comply with the order within one month from the date of receipt of copy of

the order. 2. It would be apposite to mention that hereinafter the parties will

be referred, as have been arrayed before the District Commission.

Facts of Complaint 3. Brief facts of the complaint are taken from impugned order are

that OP No.1 is running online application software through which people

purchase different goods/items as per their needs and make payment. OP

No.2 is the original seller of electronic goods and OP No.3 is the courier

company, who deliver goods to the customers. Complainant placed an

order of one iphone Xs Max 256 Gold with Rs.1,24,690/- through OP No.1

vide order No.7259422848 on 4.2.2019 with his PayTm Id Puneet Sharma, [email protected] , Mobile No.85578-68286 and the First Appeal No.9 of 2021 3 payment of Rs.1,24,690/- was duly processed/made by the complainant to

OP No.1 through ICICI Bank Net Banking at the time of order and an

amount of Rs.1,24,690/- was debited in his saving account. It is averred

that on 8.2.2019, complainant got a phone call from the side of OP No.3

informing him that his parcel is ready for its delivery. The complainant

confirmed the parcel and OP No.3's delivery boy delivered the parcel to

the complainant. Thereafter, complainant started to open the said parcel

and found that instead of ordered mobile phone iphone Xs Max 256 Gold,

a mobile of Redmi 6A lying inside the parcel having very inferior value.

Complainant was shocked by seeing the same because this was not the

product which he had ordered, as such, he shoot the video, while opening

that parcel. It is averred that he immediately contacted with OP No.1 on its

Customer Care No.01133776677 and reported the whole incident of fraud

with him. The representative of OP No.1 received the complaint and gave

assurance to investigate this fraud. Thereafter, the complainant also

contacted OP No.3 and called to Sunil Kumar, who is the

manager/representative of OP No.3 at Jalandhar, who also gave

assurance to the complainant to look into this matter seriously. Thereafter,

complainant called several times at the customer care number and talked

with Executives and other related persons of OPs No.1&3 and also

provided every document, which they asked but of no use. Complainant

gave written complaints to OP No.1 through his email on 9.2.2019. OP

No.1 again gave assurance for speedy resolution to this matter but despite

several requests and providing requisite documents, OP did not act upon

his request and also refused to make any investigation further. It is averred

that ultimately they refused to refund the price of the mobile phone.

Complainant faced physical and mental agony due to the act and conduct

of the OPs and he was forced to file the consumer complaint with the First Appeal No.9 of 2021 4 prayer that OPs be directed to reimburse the price of mobile i.e.

Rs.1,24,690/- or in the alternative deliver the iphone Xs Max 256 Gold and

get back his product Redmi 6A. It was further prayed that OPs be directed

to pay Rs.2,00,000/- as compensation for causing mental tension, agony

and Rs. 10,000/- as litigation expenses. 4. Upon notice, OP No.2 failed to appear and was proceeded

against exparte. Whereas OP No.1 filed its written reply taking preliminary

objections that OP No.1 is a company incorporated under the provisions of

the Companies Act 2013, and is the owner of the website

www.paytmmall.com alongwith mobile application named "Paytm Mall &

Bazaar" which is an online market place and provides only a platform for

different sellers to sell their products and for different buyers to access and

purchase amongst variety of goods offered by various sellers subject to the

terms and conditions as enumerated on the website of OP No.1. OP No.1

acts only as an intermediary between seller and buyer and further

submitted that Paytm E-commerce is not liable for any manufacturing

defect, faulty product received, warranty claims, after sales service for any

products purchased on the paytm platform, so there is no deficiency in

service on the part of OP No.1. On merits, it is admitted that complainant

placed an order for purchase of Apple iphone Xs Max 256 GB Gold and

the same was delivered from OP No.2 but other allegations as made in the

complaint are categorically denied and lastly submitted that the complaint

of the complainant is without merits and the same may be dismissed. 5. OP No.3 filed its separate written reply by taking preliminary

objections that OP-Blue Dart Express Limited is a listed company

registered under the provision of Companies Act, 1956 and is engaged in

courier business and is one of the most reputed courier companies in

India. It is further pleaded that OP No.3 has entered into an agreement First Appeal No.9 of 2021 5 with Paytm Communication Limited to carry shipments of paytm/its

vendors from the point of origin to the destination as specified. All

shipments are picked up in intact/sealed condition and delivered to the

consignee in same condition. As per the agreement executed with the

Paytm, the liability of this OP, qua Paytm is limited to Rs.5,000/- per

shipment or the invoice value declared or the cost of reconstruction,

whichever is lower. It is further pleaded that complainant did not obtain any

services of this OP at any point of time, so the complainant does not fall

under the definition of 'Consumer' of this OP, as such, the present

complaint is liable to be dismissed qua it. On merits, it is admitted that this

OP picked up the sealed parcel from OP No.2 for its delivery to the

complainant, which was delivered to the complainant on 8.2.2019 in sealed

condition. It is further pleaded that this OP has no role in packing of the

product rather this OP picks the sealed parcel from the consignor for its

delivery to the consignee and as such, there is no deficiency in service on

the part of this OP. It is submitted that the complaint of the complainant is

without merits and same may be dismissed qua it. Evidence of the parties and finding of the District Commission 6. Parties tendered their evidence in support of their contentions.

The District Commission after hearing the learned counsel for the parties

and going through the record, partly accepted the complaint against OPs

No.1&2 in the terms stated above vide impugned order. Hence, this appeal

by OP No.1, along with a Miscellaneous Application for condonation of

delay of 283 days in filing the same. M.A.No.79 of 2021 (Grounds for Condonation of Delay) 7. Brief facts, as averred in the application, are that the certified

copy of the order has not been received by the applicant/appellant in their

office as their office has been closed due to lockdown, due to the First Appeal No.9 of 2021 6 pandemic of Covid-19, which was imposed in the country. It is pleaded that

the Hon'ble Supreme Court has extended the period of limitation till further

orders as per their order dated 23.03.2020 passed in case "Suo Moto Writ

(Civil) No.3 of 2020 in re: Cognizance for extension of limitation" and

pleaded that pandemic still persists. It is averred that the delay of 283 days

is not intentional rather occurred due to above reasons. It has been prayed

that the application be accepted and the delay in filing the present appeal

be condoned, in the interest of justice. 8. We have heard learned counsel for the applicant/appellant

and have gone through the application/appeal file carefully.

Contentions of the Applicant/Appellant 9. Learned counsel for the applicant/appellant vehemently

contended that their office was closed on account of lockdown, due to the

pandemic of Covid-19, which was imposed in the country and their staff

was advised not to come to the office and do the work from home. It is

pleaded that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has extended the period of

limitation till further orders as per its order dated 23.03.2020 passed in

case "Suo Moto Writ (Civil) No.3 of 2020 in re: Cognizance for extension of

limitation" and contended that pandemic still persists. He prayed that the

delay of 283 days may be condoned, which is not intentional rather

occurred due to above reasons. 10. On the directions of this Commission, the appellant has filed

another affidavit dated 15.02.2021 of Lokesh Sugandh, Authorized

Representative of the applicant/appellant wherein he has stated that legal

team of the appellant's company is working from home from 05.03.2020 till

date as due to outbreak of Covid-19, there were some suspected cases

reported within the applicant's organization and Company immediately

report all its employee to work from home from 05.03.2020. First Appeal No.9 of 2021 7 11. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the contentions

raised by the learned counsel for the applicant/appellant. 12. Admittedly, there is a delay of 283 days in filing the appeal.

The contention of the learned counsel for the applicant/appellant is that it

did not receive the certified copy of the order as due to lockdown in the

country from 22.03.2020, postal/courier services have been disrupted and

still their office is not fully operational. So there is no willful disobedience

on its part. The contention of the applicant is that it has not received the

certified copy of the impugned order due to pandemic of Covid-19 but this

contention is not justified as from the perusal of the certified copy attached

with the appeal file, it is clear that the said copy is a paid certified copy of

the impugned order applied by Sh.Daljeet Singh, Advocate, which has

been received on 05.01.2021 whereas as per the stamp, delivery status of

free certified copy of the order is dated 11.03.2020 and no remarks has

been given on this copy of the impugned order that the free certified copy

of the order has been received back in the District Commission. Therefore,

it is clear that the certified copy of the order has been received by the

applicant/appellant on 11.03.2020. Therefore, straightway lapse shows on

the part of the applicant/appellant in filing the appeal in time as the

statutory requirement for filing the appeal, against the impugned order, is

30 days as per Consumer Protection Act, 1986 whereas the appeal has

been filed in this Commission on 14.01.2021 that is after the lapse of

almost 10 months. It is clear that the applicant/appellant has adopted a

careless and casual approach in filing the application and appeal. The law

is settled that the delay can be condoned when it has been properly

explained, but the delay due to casual approach cannot be condoned, at

the asking of the applicant, particularly when the delay is directly a result of

negligence, default or inaction of that party. Special period of limitation has First Appeal No.9 of 2021 8 been prescribed under the Consumer Protection Act for filing the appeals

and revisions in consumer matters so that the consumers may get

immediate relief of their grievance and if this aspect is ignored then the

main object of expeditious adjudication of the consumer disputes will get

defeated. So the contention of the applicant/appellant that their Regional

Office is still not fully operational is also not justified because from the

perusal of the certified copy of the impugned order, it is clear that free

certified of the order has been received by it on 11.03.2020 (by Hand), or

in case delivered by post, presumed to be received within one week after

the date of despatch from 11.03.2020. It is well known by the

applicant/appellant that statutory time granted under the Consumer

Protection Act, 1986 for filing the appeal against the impugned order is 30

days. Therefore, no justifiable reasoning is coming forth for such a long

delay. With regard to the law cited by the learned counsel for the

applicant/appellant, there is no dispute that the superior courts have

passed orders or issued instructions from time to time with regard to

extension of limitation period but it is clear in the order dated 06.05.2020

passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case "Suo Moto Writ (Civil) No.3

of 2020 in re: Cognizance for extension of limitation" that 'in case limitation

has expired after 15.03.2020 then period from 15.03.2020 till date on

which lockdown is lifted in the jurisdictional area where the dispute lies or

where the cause of action arises shall be extended for period of 15 days

after lifting of lockdown' and in another order it is granted upto 45 days

under Commercial Courts Act . From the abovesaid order, it is clear that

where lockdown is lifted, 15 days period is granted for the purpose of

limitation and if 67 days relaxation is granted to the applicant/appellant, still

from the perusal of the file, it is clear that there is huge delay occurred in

filing the present appeal and there is no justification coming forth for the First Appeal No.9 of 2021 9 delayed period after lifting of lockdown in the jurisdictional area of the

applicant/appellant. As it is specifically held by the Superior Courts in

number of authorities that when the delay is directly a result of negligence,

default or inaction of one party, it is unreasonable to take away that right

from other party on the mere asking of the applicant, when it is proved that

the matter was being taken in most casual manner, without bothering for

the law of limitation. The Consumer Protection Act was specifically enacted

for the speedy justice and if the aspect of limitation is ignored then speedy

justice cannot be granted to the parties. 13. Perusal of the application as well as file shows that there is no

explanation, what to say of plausible explanation given by the

applicant/appellant regarding the delay occurred in filing the appeal i.e.

after 11.03.2020 (by Hand). So the reasoning given by the

applicant/appellant does not justify the delay, specifically when the

superior Courts passed the directions to explain the day-to-day delay. 14. It is held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in " Anshul Aggarwal

Vs. New Okhla Industrial Development Authority ", 2011 (14) SCC 578

that while deciding an application for condonation of delay in the cases

under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 , the Court has to keep in mind

that special period of limitation has been prescribed under the Act for filing

the appeals and revisions in consumer matters and the object of

expeditious adjudication of the consumer disputes will get defeated, if the

highly belated petitions are to be entertained. 15. Hon'ble Supreme Court in case " Kamlesh Babu and Ors. Vs

Lajpat Rai Sharma and Others ", 2008(3) The Punjab Law Reporter-

455, while interpreting and explaining the scope of Section 3(1) of the

Limitation Act, observed as follows:- 16. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case "Lanka Venkateswarlu

(D) By LRs. Vs State of A.P. & Others", 2011 (2) RCR Civil-880 (SC),

after considering the entire case law on the point of delay, in Para-

26(relevant portion) observed as under:- 17. Similarly, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case " Oriental Arora

Chemical Industries Limited Vs Gujarat Industrial Development

Corporation ", (2010) 5 SCC-459 observed as follows:- 18. Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in case reported as

" Union of India & Ors. Vs Hari Singh ", 2009(4) RCR (Civil)-654,

declined to condone the delay for taking the matter in casual manner. In

Para-7, it was observed as follows:- 19. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case SLP (Civil) Diary

No.(s)13348 of 2019 "The State of Bihar & Ors. Vs. Deo Kumar Singh &

Ors.", decided on 09.05.2019 observed (relevant portion) as follows:- 20. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a recent case SLP (Civil) Diary

No.(s)9217 of 2020 "The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. Vs.

Bherulal", decided on 15.10.2020 has observed as follows:- The object appears to be to obtain a certificate of dismissal from the
 Supreme Court to put a quietus to the issue and thus, say that
 nothing could be done because the highest Court has dismissed the
 appeal. It is to complete this formality and save the skin of officers
 who may be at default that such a process is followed. We have on
 earlier occasions also strongly deprecated such a practice and
 process. There seems to be no improvement. The purpose of
 coming to this Court is not to obtain such certificates and if the
 Government suffers losses, it is time when the concerned officer
 responsible for the same bears the consequences. The irony is that
 in none of the cases any action is taken against the officers, who sit
 on the files and do nothing. It is presumed that this Court will
 condone the delay and even in making submissions, straight away First Appeal No.9 of 2021 12 counsels appear to address on merits without referring even to the
 aspect of limitation as happened in this case till we pointed out to the
 counsel that he must first address us on the question of limitation. 7. We are thus, constrained to send a signal and we propose to do
 in all matters today, where there are such inordinate delays that the
 Government or State authorities coming before us must pay for
 wastage of judicial time which has its own value. Such costs can be
 recovered from the officers responsible. 8. Looking to the period of delay and the casual manner in which the
 application has been worded, we consider appropriate to impose
 costs on the petitioner State of Rs.25,000/- (Rupees twenty five
 thousand) to be deposited with the Mediation and Conciliation
 Project Committee. The amount be deposited in four weeks. The
 amount be recovered from the officers responsible for the delay in
 filing the special leave petition and a certificate of recovery of the
 said amount be also filed in this Court within the said period of time. 9. The special leave petition is dismissed as time barred in terms
 aforesaid." 21. In view of above discussion and the law laid down, it is clear

that the delay has to be explained properly and sufficient cause for causing

delay must be disclosed and the delay caused on account of dilatory

tactics, inaction and casual approach cannot be condoned. In the present

case, as discussed above, no valid reasons or the explanations have been

given for condonation of delay of 283 days, except the period of relaxation

of 67 days as granted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court i.e. 283 - 67 = 216

days and each day's delay is required to be explained/justified. Thus, we

do not find any ground to condone the huge delay of 216 days (283 days)

in filing the appeal. 22. In view of the above discussion, the application for

condonation of delay is dismissed, being without any merit.

Main Case 23. As the application for condonation of delay has been

dismissed, therefore, appeal also stands dismissed, being barred by time. 24. The applicant/appellant/OP No.1 has deposited a sum of

Rs.25,000/- at the time of filing of the appeal. This amount, along with

interest which has accrued thereon, if any, shall be remitted by the

Registry to the District Commission forthwith. The complainant may First Appeal No.9 of 2021 13 approach the District Commission for the release of the above amount and

the District Commission may pass the appropriate order in this regard after

the expiry of limitation period in accordance with law. (JUSTICE PARAMJEET SINGH DHALIWAL)
 PRESIDENT

 (RAJINDER KUMAR GOYAL)
 MEMBER
February 19, 2021. as