PER BENCH

 Aforesaid appeals, one by the assessee and the other by the

Revenue, are against two separate orders passed by the learned

Commissioner (Appeals), Mumbai, for the assessment years 2010-11

and 2011-12. 2. Though, the aforesaid appeals are by rival parties, however, the

common dispute arising in these appeals converge on the issue of

allowability of assessee's claim of interest expenditure. 3. Brief facts relating to the issue in dispute are, the assessee a

company filed its return of income for the assessment year 2010-11

on 23rd September 2010, declaring total income of ` 11,57,690.

Subsequently, on 7th September 2011, assessee filed a revised return

of income offering ` 80,93,310 as the total income. 4. A search and seizure operation under section 132(1) of the

Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short "the Act") was conducted in case of

M/s Cineyug Group on 25th November 2009. On the very same day, a

survey under section 133A of the Act was also carried out in the office

premises of the assessee company. In course of search and survey

action, it was found that the assessee received loan of ` 177.75 crore

from M/s. Dynamix Realty, a firm belonging to D.B. Realty Group of 3 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. companies and the said sum of ` 177.75 crore received as loan by the

assessee, in turn, was advanced as loan to Cineyug and out of the said

amount Cineyug transferred an amount of ` 175 crore to Kalaignar TV

(KTV), Chennai in financial year 2009 itself. From the seized

documents, the Assessing Officer found that Cineyug has transferred

an amount of ` 200 crore to KTV, Chennai in financial year 2008-09

and the source of such money originated from D.B. Realty Group

companies and routed through Dynamix Realty and the assessee to

reach Cineyug. The transfer of money by way of loan between the

companies was also recorded in their respective books of account.

From the money trail as revealed from the books of account and bank

statement, it was found by the Assessing Officer that Dynamix Realty

has advanced the money in different tranches to the assessee which

the assessee has transferred to Cineyug and Cineyug in turn has paid

to KTV, Chennai. In the statement recorded from one of the directors

of the assessee Shri Rajiv Agarwal, the aforesaid transaction was also

confirmed. On further verification of the material on record during the

assessment proceedings, the Assessing Officer found that out of `

206.25 crore, received by Cineyug from the assessee, ` 56 crore was

received towards share application money and the balance amount of

` 150.25 crore was towards inter-corporate deposits (ICD) carrying

interest rate of 8%. He found that Cineyug has paid ` 200 crore to 4 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. KTV, Chennai comprising of ` 25 crore as share application money and

` 175 crore as ICD carrying interest rate of 10% for one year. He

found that Dynamix Realty is a partnership firm engaged in the

business of development and construction of buildings under the

schemes framed by the slum rehabilitation authorities. Whereas,

assessee was initially incorporated with the object of carrying on the

business of dealing in fruits, vegetables, etc., however, subsequently,

it has changed its name to Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. and diversified

its objects also. From the return of income filed by the assessee the

Assessing Officer noticed that the income offered by the assessee was

basically represented interest received from loan advanced to Cineyug,

whereas, it has claimed deduction against such income, of interest

paid to Dynamix Realty on the loan received. Looking at the

movement of money between different entities, the Assessing Officer

was of the view that the loan transactions between the parties were

beyond real normal business transactions. The Assessing Officer

observed that ultimately the real beneficiary is A. Raja and KTV,

Chennai involved in 2G scam. The Assessing Officer observed that the

transfer of money to KTV, Chennai and returning back of money by

KTV, Chennai matched with the date on which Shri A.Raja was

summoned by the CBI. He also referred to the framing of charge by

the trial Court and the rulings and observations of various judicial

authorities while deciding the bail plea. The Assessing Officer 5 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. observed, the nature of money trail and manner of transfer of fund

through numerous entities to the ultimate destination i.e., KTV,

Chennai in a totally pre-planned manner using the subterfuge of the

banking system was to result in illegal gratification of KTV, Chennai.

The Assessing Officer observed, the money trail starting from Dynamix

Realty to KTV, Chennai revealed that it was either for illegal

gratification or bribe or for some other irregular purposes or some

unspecified purposes having no conceivable business connection or

purpose. As far as the treatment to be given to the interest income

offered by the assessee is concerned, the Assessing Officer found that

the assessee has shown interest income on the loan given to Cineyug

at ` 12,19,17,808 and in turn claimed to have paid interest of `

11,38,00,114 to Dynamix Realty on the loan availed. Thus, the

assessee has offered net interest of ` 81,17,694 as income from other

sources. The Assessing Officer observed, the entire loan transaction

between Dynamix Realty, assessee and Cineyug is not in any way

connected with the regular business activity either of the assessee or

any of them. Therefore, the so called interest income and interest

expenditure shown by the assessee cannot be accepted as the loan

taken from Dynamix Realty and passing it over to Cineyug is a

colorable transaction to ultimately benefit KTV, Chennai for illegitimate

or irregular purposes. The Assessing Officer observed, for successfully

claiming any expenditure against income offered under the head 6 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. income from other sources it must be proved that such expenditure

has a direct and proximate nexus with the income earned. The

Assessing Officer observed, the assessee in no way was able to

discharge his burden of proving that the interest expenditure was

having any nexus with the interest income, since, neither of them was

connected with legitimate business activity, much less, the activity of

giving and taking loan. Accordingly, he disallowed the interest

expenditure of ` 11,38,00,114. As far as the interest income shown by

the assessee is concerned, the Assessing Officer disallowing assessee's

claim of interest income held such income as income from other

sources on account of unspecified / irregular / illegitimate receipt.

Being aggrieved of the aforesaid decision of the Assessing Officer the

assessee preferred an appeal before the first appellate authority. 5. The learned Commissioner (Appeals) after considering the

submissions of the assessee in the context of facts and material on

record observed that the Assessing Officer has not disputed the fact

that the assessee has received an amount of ` 209.251 crore from

Dynamix Realty out of which it has paid ` 206.25 crore to Cineyug who

in turn has paid ` 200 crore to KTV Chennai. He also found that all

these transactions were through regular Banking channel. Further in

the return of income filed the assessee has offered interest income of `

12,19,17,808, received from Cineyug on loan advanced and claimed 7 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. interest expenditure of ` 11,38,00,114 as interest paid to Dynamix

Realty on loan availed. The learned Commissioner (Appeals) observed

that the Assessing Officer has disallowed assessee's claim of interest

expenditure on the view that the loan transactions in reality are not so

and it is actually meant for passing over ` 200 crore from D.B. Group

to KTV Chennai as illegal gratification. He found that the aforesaid

view was taken by the Assessing Officer on the basis of 2G Spectrum

case filed by the CBI which is pending before the Special Court CBI,

New Delhi. The learned Commissioner (Appeals) opined, the issue

whether it is a real loan transaction or the transactions are trail of

illegal gratification to KTV by D.B. Group, since, is under the scrutiny

of Special Court no finding on the nature of transactions can be given.

However, he observed that there is no dispute that the interest income

earned by the assessee was from the loan advanced to Cineyug the

source of which is originated from the loan availed by the assessee

from Dynamix Realty. He found that while the assessee has received

interest from Cineyug, in turn, it has paid interest to Dynamix Realty.

The assessee has also deducted TDS on the interest paid to Dynamix

Realty and Dynamix Realty has also offered the interest received from

assessee as income in the return of income filed. The learned

Commissioner (Appeals) observed, if accepting the Assessing Officer's

view it is held that the transaction are the money trail of illegal

gratification from D.B. Group to KTV, Chennai, neither there can be 8 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. any real interest income nor real interest expenditure. Whereas, While

the Assessing Officer has taxed the interest income he has refused to

allow interest expenditure. The learned Commissioner (Appeals) held,

that, since the source of fund from which the assessee earned interest

income and also paid interest is the same the expenditure claimed has

to be allowed if the interest income is assessed in the hands of the

assessee. Accordingly, he directed the Assessing Officer to allow

assessee's claim of interest expenditure. Facts for the Assessment

Year 2011-12 are more or less identical, except, for the fact that in

the said assessment year learned Commissioner (Appeals) upheld the

disallowance of interest expenditure by holding that interest income

earned by the assessee has to be treated as business income and the

interest expenditure cannot be allowed under section 36(1)(iii) as it is

not for the purpose of business and it cannot be allowed under section

37(1) as it was connected to activities prohibited in law or for

infraction of law. 6. The learned Departmental Representative extensively referring to

the discussions made by the Assessing Officer in the assessment order

submitted that lot of discrepancies were found between the books of

account and the statements recorded from the directors of the

assessee company. He submitted, though in the books of account as

well as statement recorded it was mentioned that the money was paid 9 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. towards inter-corporate deposits, however, no documents were found

during the search to show issuance of ICDs or shares. The learned

Departmental Representative submitted, the Assessing Officer on

examining the material on record has also pointed out that on the

dates money was transferred by the assessee to Cineyug and Cineyug

to KTV there were no matching funds available in their books. He

submitted, though, share application money of ` 28.50 crore were

converted to equity shares no signed copy of agreement were

produced. No evidences were produced to indicate that shares and

debentures were offered to members thereby violating the provisions

of Companies Act, 1956 . The learned Departmental Representative

referring to the observations of the Hon'ble High Court while disposing

off the bail application submitted that the assessee's complicity is

clearly established. The learned Departmental Representative

submitted, the so called interest claimed to have been earned by the

assessee is nothing but facilitation fee for illegal money transferred to

KTV, Chennai. He submitted that the assessee was used as a conduit

to pass on illegal gratification to KTV. The learned Departmental

Representative submitted, the interest expenditure having no

connection with earning of interest income was not allowable. In

support of such contention, he relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in case of Durga prasad More, 82 ITR 640. 10 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. 7. Learned Departmental Representative referring to observations

of the first appellate authority while deciding assessee's appeal for

assessment year 2011-12 submitted that in the said year learned

Commissioner (Appeals) has taken a correct view by holding that the

transaction entered into by the assessee with Cineyug is an adventure

in the nature of trade, hence, the income derived there from is

assessable as business income. He submitted, as the transaction

relating to advancement of loan by the assessee to Cineyug has

resulted in illegal gratification to KTV, Chennai and A. Raja involved in

2-G scam, the interest expenditure relating to such unlawful

transaction is neither allowable as deduction under section 36(1)(iii) of

the Act as it is not related to assessee's business nor it is allowable

under section 37(1) . He, therefore submitted, learned Commissioner

(Appeals)'s order for assessment year 2010-11 should be reversed

and his order for 2011-12 should be upheld. 8. The learned Authorised Representative submitted, the fact that

the assessee has obtained loan of ` 200 crore from Dynamix Realty

and in turn has advanced the money to Cineyug has not been disputed

by the Assessing Officer. He submitted, the source of the loan credited

in the books of account of the assessee is, therefore, explained. He

submitted, the source of fund advanced by Dynamix Realty was never

questioned by the assessing authority in case of Dynamix Realty. He 11 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. submitted, assessee is an investment vehicle of Dynamix Realty. He

submitted, the Assessing Officer has not disputed that there is a direct

nexus between loan taken from Dynamix Realty and loan given to

Cineyug. The learned Authorised Representative submitted, while on

the loan given to Cineyug assessee has received interest, at the same

time, assessee has paid interest on the loan availed from Dynamix

Realty. Therefore, there is a direct nexus between the income earned

and expenditure incurred. He submitted, various discrepancies pointed

out by the Assessing Officer in the assessment order with regard to

the treatment of loan at the hands of Cineyug are mere irregularities,

hence, not fatal to the assessee's case and has no impact on the

expenditure claimed. He submitted, the claim of the assessee that part

of the money advanced was towards acquiring shares is proved from

the fact that shares of Cineyug were allotted to the assessee and the

assessee still holds them. The learned Authorised Representative

submitted, the allegation of the Assessing Officer that KTV is the

ultimate beneficiary of the so called money trail transaction of ` 200

crore is without any basis as the said amount of ` 200 crore has been

returned back by KTV to Cineyug in the financial year 2010-11. The

learned Authorised Representative submitted, the very fact that the

Assessing Officer has not made any addition either under section 68 or

under section 69 of the Act proves that he has accepted the source of

loan availed by the assessee and advanced to Cineyug. He submitted, 12 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. not only the assessee has offered the interest on loan received from

Cineyug as income but Dynamix Realty has also offered the interest

received from the assessee on the loan advanced as income which has

been accepted by the Assessing Officer. The learned Authorised

Representative submitted, the observations of the Assessing Officer in

the impugned assessment orders and that of the learned

Commissioner (Appeals) in the appeal order for assessment year

2011-12 regarding assessee's involvement in illegal gratification to

KTV have lost their relevance as the Special Court conducting the trial

against the assessee and other accused persons in cases filed under

the Prevention of Corruption Act and Prevention of Money Laundering

Act has acquitted the assessee and other accused persons from all

charges. In this context, he drew our attention to the orders dated 21st

December 2017, passed by the learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New

Delhi, and read out the relevant observations of the Trial Court in this

regard. Therefore, he submitted, no reliance can be placed on the

allegations made in the charge sheet/complaint filed by the CBI before

the Trial Court. The learned Authorised Representative submitted,

even in the statement recorded from the director of the assessee he

has categorically stated that the investment made is in the nature of

strategic investment. He submitted, if the assessee for the purpose of

its business has decided to make investment in the shares of another

company, the Assessing Officer certainly cannot step into the shoes of 13 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. the assessee and question his prudence in making such investments. In this context, he relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in CIT v/s S.A. Builders , 288 ITR 001 (SC). Learned Authorised

Representative submitted, when the Assessing Officer himself in

assessment year 2010-11 and 2011-12 has assessed the interest

income under the head income from other sources and in the appeal

filed for assessment year 2010-11, the Department has not disputed

that the interest income is to be assessed under the head income from

other sources, the learned Commissioner (Appeals) while deciding

appeal for assessment year 2011-12 cannot change the head of

income as income from business only for disallowing the interest

expenditure. The learned Authorized Representative submitted, the

loan transaction between the Dynamix Realty and assessee on the one

hand and the assessee and Cineyug on the other being proved beyond

doubt by explaining the source of the money transferred from one

entity to the other, the transaction cannot be treated as non-genuine.

Further, he submitted, what the Department has ultimately done is to

disallow the interest expenditure claimed by the assessee for earning

the interest income. He submitted, when the nexus between loan

obtained and loan advanced has been proved and the Department is

assessing the interest income at the hands of the assessee, there is no

justification or rationale in disallowing interest expenditure which is

directly related to earning of interest income. Therefore, he submitted, 14 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. the disallowance made by the Assessing Officer was correctly deleted

by the first appellate authority in assessment year 2010-11 and the

same view should have been taken in assessment year 2011-12 as

well. 9. In rejoinder, the learned Departmental Representative

submitted, the orders of the Special Judge, CBI, now relied upon by

the assessee are not final as the Government may contemplate filing

appeals against the orders of the Special Judge. He submitted, until

the orders of the learned Special Judge attain finality, assessee's

involvement in the scam cannot be ignored / overlooked. 10. We have patiently and carefully heard rival submissions, perused

the materials on record as well as decisions cited before us. Before

proceeding to decide the issues raised in these appeals, it is necessary

to put certain facts on record. The hearing of these appeals was

concluded earlier on 26.09.2017. While drafting the order it was felt

that clarification on certain issues are still required. Hence, the Bench

thought it appropriate to refix the appeals for fresh hearing.

Subsequently, the assessee vide letter dated 22.12.2017 requested

rehearing of the appeals as it wanted to bring on record the orders of

ld. Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi in the trials conducted against the

assessee under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Prevention of

Money Laundering Act , which according to the assessee will have 15 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. crucial bearing on the present appeals. Thus, the appeals were refixed

for hearing and finally heard on 19.01.2018. Though, the disputed

issue concerning allowability of interest expenditure claimed by the

assessee on the surface appears to be a simple issue, however, on

deeper scrutiny of facts and materials it is not so. Through a maze of

bank transactions funds worth ` 200 crore have been transferred

between number of entities including the assessee. As could be seen

from facts on record, while filing the original return of income for the

assessment year 2010-11 assessee did not declare the interest

income claimed to have been received from Cineyug. Subsequently,

through a revised return of income filed on 07.09.2011 assessee

offered the said interest income. Further, the assessing officer has

observed that in the audited balance sheet as at 31.03.2009 which

was before survey, the assessee had shown unsecured loan of `.31.50

crore from Dynamix Realty. However, in the audited balance sheet for

assessment year 2010-11, which was prepared after survey, the

unsecured loan has been reclassified as inter corporate deposit(ICD).

Similarly, while in the audited balance sheet of assessment year 2009-

10 assessee has shown an amount of `.28.50 crore as investment in

share application money with Cineyug, in the audited balance sheet of

assessment year 2010-11, the nomenclature of `.28.50 has been

changed to loans and advances from investments. Further, the audited

balance sheet of assessee for assessment year 2010-11 shows 16 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. investment in share application money with Cineyug at `.206.24 crores

split into `.06.2475 crore as equity share application money and `.200

crore as 8% debenture application money. Similar inconsistencies

were also pointed out by the assessing officer in respect of transfer of

money between Cineyug and KTV. The assessing officer also alleged

that in the process of advancing/investing in share application money,

ICD and debenture bonds, both, the assessee and Cineyug have

violated various provisions of Companies Act . Further, assessing officer

has also observed, either during search or survey no proof or

document was found to indicate offer of debenture by Cineyug or

application made by assessee for investing in such debenture.

Ultimately, though, the assessing officer assessed the amount offered

by the assessee as interest income, however, he held that it is not in

the nature of interest income. 11. On a careful reading of prargraph 19 to 19.3 of Commissioner

(Appeals) order for assessment year 2010-11, against which the

department is in appeal, it is evident, the Commissioner(Appeals) has

totally overlooked and ignored the inconsistencies pointed out by the

assessing officer with regard to the nature of transactions between the

parties in purported violation of various provisions of Companies Act .

Learned Commissioner(Appeals) while allowing assessee's claim in

Assessment Year 2010-11 has not at all dealt with a number of factual 17 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. issues raised by the assessing officer. In as much as, while deciding

assessee's appeal for Assessment Year 2011-12 the

Commissioner(Appeals) has upheld the disallowance of interest

expenditure claimed by the assessee on a altogether different

reasoning by changing the head of interest income shown by the

assessee under the head 'income from other sources' to 'business

income'. Thus, there is inconsistency even in the stand of the

department with regard to the head of income. 12. Moreover, the most important factor which will have crucial

bearing on the disputed issue is the fate of the cases filed by the CBI

against the assessee under the Prevention of Corruption Act and

Prevention of Money Laundering Act . A reading of the impugned

assessment orders as well as the first appellate order for assessment

year 2011-12 would leave no room for doubt that the disallowance of

interest expenditure stands on the fulcrum of the allegations made by

the CBI against the assessee and other persons in the charge

sheet/complaint filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

2002 and Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . However, learned

Special Judge, CBI (04), New Delhi, while delivering his judgment on

21st December 2017 in C.C. no.01/2011, the case filed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , has acquitted the assessee from

all charges leveled against it on the following observations:- 18 13. Relying upon his decision in the Complaint Case filed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , the learned Special Judge, CBI

(04), New Delhi, also acquitted the assessee in the Complaint Case

no.1/2014 filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 ,

with the following observations:- 14. Undisputedly, these are recent developments much after

completion of proceedings before the Departmental Authorities. None

of the Departmental Authorities had the benefit of the aforesaid orders

passed by the learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New Delhi, which were

produced for the first time in course of appeal hearing before us. Rules

of natural justice and fair play demand that the Departmental

Authorities must be given an opportunity to analyze and examine the

impact the orders passed by the learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New

Delhi, may have on the disputed issue arising in the present appeals. 15. Therefore, regard being had to the facts discussed by us herein

before and the changed scenario arising due to the orders passed by

the learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New Delhi, referred to above, we

are of the considered opinion that the issues raised in the present

appeals are required to be restored back to the Assessing Officer for

de novo adjudication after considering all incidental facts and material

including the orders of the learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New Delhi. 20 Kusegaon Realty Pvt. Ltd. Needless to mention, the Assessing Officer must afford a reasonable

opportunity of being heard to the assessee before deciding the issue. 16. In the result, both the appeals are allowed for statistical

purposes.