K.M. JOSEPH, J. 1. The appeal maintained by Special Leave is

 directed against the judgment of Learned Single Judge

 of High Court of Delhi upholding the dismissal of the

 complaint filed by the appellant herein against the

 respondent and discharging him of offences under Sections 132 and 135 of the Customs Act, 1962. The

 Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate allowed the

 application for discharge filed by the respondent

 accepting the contention of the respondent that there Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by ARJUN BISHT is a complete bar with regard to the prosecution under Date: 2019.02.27 15:41:44 IST Reason: the Customs Act, 1962 , and under the 2 Customs Act , and the Collector of Customs has power

only to confiscate the goods and impose penalty for

having committed breach of Section 3 of the Antiquities

and Art Treasures Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as

“the Antiquities Act”). The Magistrate purported to

follow the judgment of Learned Single judge of the High

Court of Delhi in Dr. V.J.A. Flynn vs. S.S. Chauhan &

Another . The High Court by the impugned order has come

to endorse the said view. 2. We have heard Mr. Aman Lekhi, learned

Additional Solicitor General appearing for the

appellant and also learned counsel appearing on behalf

of the respondent. 3. It must be noted that the Special Leave

Petition out of which this appeal arise was ordered to

be tagged with SLP(Crl.) No. 1525 of 1996. The said

Special Leave Petition was filed against the judgment 3 of learned Single Judge of High Court of Delhi which

has been relied upon by the Court’s below for

discharging the accused. As it turns out, the said

Special Leave Petition has been closed by order dated

09.05.2016 by reason of the death of the respondent in

the said case. The learned Additional Solicitor General

would contend that there is a clear error in the

reasoning of the Court by which it has concluded that

prosecution is not maintainable under Sections 132 and 135 of the Customs Act, 1962. The error stems from a

misapprehension both of the scheme of the Act and also

the principles of law which govern the situation. 4. The scheme of the Antiquities and Art Treasures
 Act, 1972 . Section 3 forbids the export of Antiquities and Art

Treasures. It reads as follows:- 5. Section 4 is another material provision and

hence we advert to the same. It reads as follows: - 6. Section 24 reads as follows:- 7. The next important provision is Section 25 . It

reads as follows:- (2) if any person contravenes the provisions of section 5 or section 12 or sub-section (2) or
 sub-section (3) of section 13 or section 14 or section 17 , he shall be punishable with
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
 months or with fine or with both and the
 antiquity in respect of which the offence has
 been committed shall be liable to confiscation.

 (3) If any person prevents any licensing officer
 from inspecting any record, photograph or
 register maintained under section 10 or prevents
 any officer authorized by the Central Government
 under sub-section (1) of section 23 from entering
 into or searching any place under that sub-
 section, he shall be punishable with imprisonment
 for a term which may extend to six months, or
 with fine, or with both.” 6 8. Section 26 is a companion section of Section 25 and must necessarily be addressed. It reads as

follows:- (2) No court shall take cognizance of an offence
 punishable under sub-section (2) or sub-section
 (3) or section 25 except upon complaint in
 writing made by an officer generally or specially
 authorized in this behalf by the Central
 Government. (3) No court inferior to that of a Presidency
 Magistrate or a Magistrate of the First Class
 shall try any offence punishable under this Act.” 9. The last provision which has been impressed

upon us and which will throw light upon the scheme of

the Act is Section 30 . It reads as follows: - 10. Mr. Aman Lekhi, Additional Solicitor General of

India would contend that the prosecution was launched

under Sections 132 and 135 of the Customs Act, 1962 on

the basis that the ingredients of offences under Sections 132 and 135 were present. He makes it clear

that this is not a case of prosecution within the

meaning of Section 25(1) of the Act. There is no bar in

prosecuting the respondent under Sections 132 and 135 of the Customs Act, he forcefully submitted. As far as Section 4 is concerned, he points out that in fact it

saves proceedings under the Customs Act . The only taboo

is that, to the extent, any inconsistency between the Customs Act and the Act exists, the provisions of the

Antiquities Act will hold sway. He points out that

there is no inconsistency involved in maintaining the

prosecution under Sections 132 and 135 of the Customs

Act, 1962. Passing on to Section 25 of the Act, he

would point out that the present case is not a

prosecution under Section 25 read with Section 3 of the

Act. One set of facts may occasion the committing of

more than one offence. The key question to be posed and 8 considered is what are the elements which make an

offence under an enactment. A transaction may involve

a person in the committing of two or more distinct

offences. This is neither contrary to Article 20 of the

Constitution of India nor Section 300 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure. In this regard, he drew our

attention to the following cases: 11. The next argument based on Section 25 is that a

perusal of the heading of the section reveals that it

relates to penalty. The reason which has found favour

with the High Court both in the judgment which was

relied upon and the impugned one is that under Section

25 of the Act after the amendment, [Actually, the High

Court was having in mind, the provisions of Section 4 of the Antiquities (Export Control) Act, 1947

(hereinafter referred to as “the 1947 Act”)], what is

permissible under the Customs Act, 1962 , is only the 9 confiscation proceedings and penalty proceedings.

Penalty proceedings have been understood as exaction of

a monetary component. The learned Additional Solicitor

General takes exception to the reasoning. In other

words, it is his contention that even proceeding on to

basis of the interpretation placed by the High Court

that after the amendment, under Section 25 what is

permitted under the Customs Act , is only confiscation

and imposition of penalty, the imposition of penalty is

not to bear a narrow connotation as was contemplated by

the High Court. On the other hand, a penalty would

include the penal consequence after a prosecution and

such prosecution would include prosecution under Sections 132 and 135 of the Customs Act. 12. Further, he would complain that the High Court

has lost sight of the true import of Section 30 of the

Act. Section 30 as we have noticed declares that the

provisions of the Act shall be in addition to the

specific laws which are mentioned therein but it does 10 not end there. It also provides that it shall be in

addition to any other existing law in force. He

complains that High Court erred in applying the

principles of ejusdem generis, in the interpretation of Section 30 and holding that the Customs Act will not be

an Act which will be embraced within the scope of Section 30 under the last limb and therefore, it will

not be an existing law. 13. Per contra, learned counsel appearing on behalf

of the respondent would support the order of the High

Court. He would point out that the Antiquities Act

which is actually enacted in the year 1972 is later in

point of time than the Customs Act . The Act must

prevail over the Customs Act . The Act is a special Act

and it will prevail over the general law which is

contained in the Customs Act . 14. Firstly, we will deal with the contention of

the appellant that the Customs Act is also an existing 11 law in force within out of the meaning of Section 30 of

the Antiquities Act. The High Court has proceeded to

take the view that the words ‘any law in force’ must be

construed ejusdem generis with the two laws which are

indicated in Section 30 namely, The Ancient Monuments

Preservation Act, 1904 and the Ancient Monuments and

Archaeological Sites and Remains Act,1958 . 15. Learned Additional Solicitor General sought

support from the decision of this Court in Bharat Heavy

Electricals Limited v. Globe Hi-Fabs Limited reported

in 2015 (5) SCC 718 for the principle that the

principles of ejusdem generis must not be used to place

a narrow construction where a larger and purposive

construction is called for. We would advert to the

following discussion by this Court in paragraph 10. It

reads as under: 16. Still further we may profitably advert to the

statement of law made by this Court in paragraph 12.

The same reads as under: 17. The question would be whether the High Court is

right in applying the principles of ejusdem generis.

In order that it applies, the court must find the

existence of enumerated things before general words.

In other words, specified categories must have a common

golden thread of commonality running through them. The

specified words must be followed by general words.

Since the purpose of interpretation of statute is to

glean the legislative intention and purposive

interpretation being an important tool of statutory

interpretation, the demands made by the same may

overwhelm, the temptation to place a restrictive

interpretation by adopting the principles of ejusdem

generis unless it is warranted. Two views being

possible, a view which advances the object may be

preferred but the question arises whether the learned

Additional Solicitor General would be justified in 14 relying upon the principles relating ejusdem generis in

the facts. When the legislature makes a law, the

presumption is that it is aware of all existing laws.

The Court does not begin with a presumption of

ignorance. The Act in question, would indeed furnish a

lucid illustration of the aforesaid principles. The

legislature was fully conscious that the Customs Act,

1962 exists on the statute book. The legislature was

conscious of its operation and it wanted to articulate

the manner in which both laws were to co-exist. It is

accordingly that in Section 4 it has expressly provided

that the Customs Act shall apply in relation to all

antiquities and art treasures, the export of which by

any person other than the Central Government or

authorized or agency is prohibited under Section 3 of

the Act. The only area where it tabooed the

application of the Customs Act is where the Act

contains provisions which were irreconcilable being

inconsistent with the Antiquities Act. Equally, it

also expressly provided for the situation that any

confiscation, notwithstanding Section 125 of the 15 Customs Act thereof, shall be made in regard to

antiquities and art treasure unless on an application

made to the Central Government, it otherwise directs. Section 125 of the Customs Act is a provision which

enables the officer adjudging the confiscation

proceedings to give an option to pay a fine in lieu of

confiscation. The obvious intention of the legislature

is to provide that once an order for confiscation is

passed under the Customs Act in respect of antiquities

or art treasure the powers ordinarily available under Section 125 of the Customs Act will not be available. 18. Still further the legislative light is shone by

the words used in Section 25 of the Act. The

legislature has provided for penalty for contravention

of Section 3 of the Act with the rider that a

prosecution under Section 3 of the Act would not

deprive the competent authority under the Customs Act to exercise its power of confiscation or imposition of

penalty. The question as to what is meant by the word

‘penalty’ in Section 25(1) is a separate matter which 16 we will advert to at the appropriate juncture. It is

thereafter that Section 30 provides that the provisions

of the Act are not intended to override the Ancient

Monument Preservation Act, 1904 or the Ancient Monument

and Archeological Site and Remains Act, 1958 or any

other law for the time being in force. The question

which we are to ponder upon and decide is whether the

expression ‘any other law’ which is cast in general

terms is to be influenced by the company it keeps or

the neighbourhood it is found in or is it possible to

accept the case of the appellant that the words ‘any

other law’ for the time being in force must admit of a

wider meaning. There can be no doubt that the

Antiquities Act is a special enactment. We may at this

juncture refer to the statement of objects and reasons

of The Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972 which

reads as follows: 19. Firstly, we must ascertain whether there is a

common genus contained in the specific enumeration of

two laws namely the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act,

1904 and the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites

and Remains Act, 1958 . 20. Let us examine the historical perspective which

led to the passing of these two aforesaid enactments. 21. The statement of objects and reasons for the

enactment of the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act,

1904 is as follows: It has been made clear that there is to
be no resort to compulsory acquisition
in the case the monument is used in
connection with religious observances or
in other case until the owner has had an
opportunity of entering into an
agreement of the kind indicated above;
and it is expressly provided that the
monument maintained by the Government
under the proposed Act, shall not be
used for any purpose inconsistent with
its character or with purpose of its
foundation, and that, so far as is
compatible with the object in view the
public shall have access to it free of
charge. By the 4th proviso of clause 11
(now section 10 ) it is laid down that in
assessing the value of the monument for
the purpose of compulsory acquisition
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1
of 1894) its archaeological, artistic or
historical merits shall not be taken
into account. The object of the
Government as purchaser being to
preserve at the public expense and for
the public benefit an ancient monument
with all its associations, it is
considered that the value of those
associations should not be paid for.
 [Note:- As the 4th proviso of clause
11 was the subject of unfavourable
comment, it was omitted by the Select
Committee.] 4. The second portion of the Bill
deals with movable objects of historical
or artistic interest and these may be
divided into two classes: the first
consists of ornaments, enamels, silver
and copper vessels, Persian and Arabian
Manuscripts, and curios general. These 21 are for the most part portable and
consequently difficult to trade; they
are as a rule artistic; are of historic
interest and it would be impracticable
even were it desirable to prevent a
dealer from selling and a traveller from
buying them. The sculptural carvings,
images, bas-reliefs inscriptions and the
like form a distinct class by
themselves, in that their value depends
upon their local connection. Such
antiquities may as in the case of those
of Swat, be found outside India or in
Native States and this the Legislature
cannot reach directly; while as the
regards the British territory and under
the existing law, it is impossible to go
beyond the provisions of the Indian
Treasure Trove Act, 1878 (6 of 1878).
(In these circumstances, it is proposed,
by clause 18 of the Bill to take power
to prevent the removal from British
India of any antiquities which it may be
deemed desirable to retain in the
country, and at the same time to prevent
importation. By thus putting a stop on
draft in such articles it is believed
that it will be possible to protect
against spoliation a number of
interesting places situated without and
beyond British territory. Clause 19 aims
at providing for antiquities such as
sculptures and inscriptions which belong
to another place and ought therefore to
be kept in situ or deposited in local
museums. The removal of these, it is
proposed to enable the local Government
to prohibit by notification and the
clause also provides that, if the object
is moveable, the owner may require the
Government to purchase it outright and 22 that, if it is immovable the Government
 shall compensate the owner for any loss
 caused to him by the prohibition. Clause
 20 (now section 19 ) deals with the
 compulsory purchase of such antiquities
 if that is found to be necessary for
 their preservation and the owner is not
 willing on personal or religious grounds
 to part with them. In such cases it is
 proposed that the price to be paid
 should be assessed by the Collector,
 subject to a right of appeal to the
 local Government but it is for
 consideration whether the Land
 Acquisition Act of 1894should be
 followed and reference to the Courts
 allowed. 5. The third portion of the Bill deals
 with excavations and gives power to make
 rules to prohibit or regulate such
 operations. 6. The general power to make rules is
 given by clause 22 (now section 23 ), and
 clause 23 (now section 24 ) is intended
 to protect acts done or in good faith
 intended to be done, under the law which
 it is now proposed to enact" It is further stated as follows : “While the Constitution has
 distributed the subject-matter under
 three different heads the Act of 1904
 governs all ancient monuments whether
 falling the Central field or the State
 field, and vests all executive power in
 the Central Government. The position of
 the existing law relating to ancient
 monuments is far from satisfactory. The
 present Bill purports to be a self- contained law at the Centre which will
 apply exclusively to ancient monument,
 etc. of national importance falling
 under Entry 67 of List 1 and to
 archaeological sites and remains falling
 under Entry 40 in the Concurrent List. 26 Simultaneously, the State Governments
 would be advised to enact a similar law
 in respect of ancient monument etc.,
 falling under Entry 12 in the State
 List. In this manner, the Central and
 State fields will be clearly demarcated
 and the existing confusion and
 overlapping of jurisdiction arising from
 the Act of 1904 will be eliminated.” 28. Section 2(b) defines antiquity in similar terms

as antiquity has been defined under the Antiquities

Act. The two differences are as follows: 26. Purchase of antiquities by Central
 Government.- (1) If the Central Government
 apprehends that any antiquity mentioned in a
 notification issued under sub-section (1) of section 25 is in danger of being destroyed,
 removed, injured, misused or allowed to fall
 into decay or is of opinion that, by reason of
 its historical or archaeological importance, it
 is desirable to preserve such antiquity in a
 public place, the Central Government may make
 an order for the [compulsory acquisition of
 such antiquity] and the Collector shall
 thereupon give notice to the owner of the
 antiquity [to be acquired]. (2) Where a notice of [compulsory
 acquisition] is issued under sub-section (1) in
 respect of any antiquity, such antiquity shall
 vest in the Central Government with effect from
 the date of the notice. (3) The power of [compulsory acquisition]
 given by this section shall not extend to any
 image or symbol actually used for bona fide
 religious observances.” 29. Section 30 provides for penalties and it reads

as follows : section(1) of section 19 , shall be punishable
 with [imprisonment which may extend to two
 years], or with [fine which may extend to one
 lakh rupees], or with both. (2) Any person who moves any antiquity in
 contravention of a notification issued under
 sub-section (1) of section 25 shall
 be punishable with [imprisonment which may
 extend to two years or with fine which may
 extend to one lakh rupees or with both] and the
 Court convicting a person of any such
 contravention may by order direct such person
 to restore the antiquity to the place from
 which it was moved.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 29 30. Section 39 is a repealing provision and it

reads thus: (2) The Ancient Monuments Preservation Act,
 1904 (7 of 1904), shall cease to have effect in
 relation to ancient and historical monuments
 and archaeological sites and remains declared
 by or under this Act to be of national
 importance, except as respects things done or
 omitted to be done before the commencement of
 this Act.” 31. Now the time is ripe to look at the

Constitution in order to find out the division of

legislative field in regard to the subject. 32. Entry 67 of the Union List reads as follows: 33. Entry 12 of the State List provides for ancient

and historical monuments and records other than those 30 declared by or under law made by Parliament to be of

national importance. 34. Entry 40 of the Concurrent List provides for

archaeological sites and remains other than those

declared by or under law made by Parliament to be of

national importance. 35. There are laws enacted by state legislature. We

have noticed that in the Statement of Objects and

Reasons for the passing of the Act and providing for

the repeal of the earlier law based in the year 1947

was to provide for comprehensive law relating to

antiquities. Antiquities made their appearance in the

law which was made in the year 1904 as we have already

noticed. Broadly the heritage of the nation can be said

to be contained in immovable properties in the form of

ancient monuments. Antiquities on the other hand would

be essentially moveable objects. What makes it an 31 antiquity is the historical or archaeological value

which is associated with the object. 36. The 1904 Act and The Ancient Monuments and

Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 indicate,

therefore, a one common genus. The context for the

commonality is provided essentially by history. It is,

inextricably intertwined with the heritage and history

of the nation. All the laws reflect the legislation

intention to protect the Ancient Monuments and

Archaeological Sites and remains as also antiquities.

Apart from the same no doubt under the Antiquities Act,

art treasures being human work of art which are not

antiquities but which become art treasures by way of

notification declaring them to be art treasures are

also dealt with. One of the questions to be answered

before the principle of ejusdem generis is applied is

whether the genus is already exhaustively enumerated in

the specified categories. See in this regard the 32 following discussion in Principles of Statutory

Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh (page 512): “…If the preceding words do not
 constitute mere specifications of a
 genus but constitute description of a
 complete genus, the rule has no
 application. In a policy of insurance,
 the insurance were given as option to
 terminate the policy if they so desired
 `by reason of such change or from any
 other cause whatever’; the words `by
 reason of such change’ in the context
 referred to any and every act done to
 the insured property whereby the risk of
 fire was increased; the Privy Council in
 these circumstances refused to construe
 the words `or from any other cause
 whatever’ by the rule of ejusdem
 generis. Lord Watson said: “In the
 present case, there appears no room for
 its application. The antecedent clause
 does not contain a mere specification of
 particulars but the description of a
 complete genus…” 37. But the aforesaid principle may not have

application as after enumerating enactments which we

have already held constituted one genus there is

nothing to indicate that the categories of genus are

exhausted. Rather these two enactments which are

specifically embodied in Section 30 are followed by

general words which allow the application of the 33 principle of ejusdem generis. This is for the reason

that the words “any other law for the time being in

force” are employed. A wide interpretation or narrow

interpretation can be placed on the words ‘any other

law’. In particular, the use of the word “any”

preceding the words “other law” interpreted literally

may allow us to declare that all laws in force are

intended to apply even after the passing of the

Antiquities Act. The other view would be to bear in

mind the context of the Act and still further the

object which is sought to be achieved by the enactment.

It is also well settled that every attempt must be made

to place a harmonious construction on each and every

provision of the enactment. 38. We would think that though the words ‘any other

law for the time being in force’ has been used, the

context for the use of the provision is not to be

overlooked. We have referred to the relevant

provisions of the two specific enactments which show 34 that the said legislation also deals with antiquities

as it deals with cognate subjects namely ancient

monuments and archaeological sites. The common genus

is manifest. The legislative intention was to declare

that the Antiquities Act should not result in the

provision contained in allied or cognate laws being

overridden upon passing of the Antiquity Act. Full

play was intended for the provisions contained in

relation to antiquities contained in the two

engagements. Despite the passage of the Antiquity Act,

a prosecution for instance would be maintainable if a

case is otherwise made out under the two enactments in

relation to antiquity. The Antiquities Act in other

words is not to be in derogation of those provisions.

They were to supplement the existing laws. It is

therefore in the same context that we should understand

the words ‘any other law for the time being in force’.

For instance, there may be laws made by the State

legislatures which relate to antiquity. There may be

any other law which deal with a subject with a common

genus of which the specific law would be an integral 35 part. It is all such laws which legislature intended

to comprehend within the expression ‘any other law for

the time being in force’. Take for example, a case

where there is a theft of an antiquity. Can it be said

that the prosecution under Section 379 of the IPC would

not be maintainable. The answer will be an emphatic

No. Certainly, the prosecution will lie. The Sale of

Goods Act which relate to movable items generally will

be applicable, to the extent that it is not covered by

any provision in the Acts in question. The Contract

Act may continue to applicable. But it is not the

question of applying general laws that engage the

attention of the legislature. The intention behind Section 30 was as noted is to provide for any other law

which deal with antiquity to continue to have force and

declare its enforceability even after passing of the

Antiquity Act. In that view of the matter we are of the

view that the words ‘any other law for the time being

in force’ must be construed as ejusdem generis. 36 39. More importantly, a wider import may be

negatived by other evidence available in the Act

itself. 40. Section 4 of the Antiquities Act, it must be

remembered, has already provided for the applicability

of the Customs Act in the manner which we have already

explained. In other words, the Customs Act is

applicable subject to two qualifications. Firstly, it

will apply except where the provisions of the Customs

Act are inconsistent with the provisions of the

Antiquities Act. In other words, if there are

provisions in the Antiquity Act, which are inconsistent

with the Customs Act , the provisions of the Antiquity

Act will prevail over the Customs Act . 41. The Second limitation on the applicability of

the Customs Act is as regards the specific provisions

contained in Section 125 and an option ordinarily made

available under Section 125 is not to be extended as 37 provided in Section 4 of the Act. Still further

legislature has taken care to incorporate certain

aspects under the Customs Act under Section 25 . The

provision that a prosecution under Section 25 will not

take away the power to confiscate or impose a penalty

under the Customs Act is explicitly provided. It has

provided for sanction for prosecution in Section 26 .

The legislature was fully conscious of the extant

provisions of the Customs Act when it passed the

Antiquity Act, 1972. It was conscious of the interplay

of the two enactments and it accordingly made the Customs Act applicable in the manner provided in Section 4 and Section 25 . Now with Section 4 and Section 25 as it stands, if we were to accept the

argument of the learned Additional Solicitor General

that the Customs Act must be also included as ‘any

other law for the time being in force’ under Section 30 and therefore we are persuaded to hold that the

Antiquity Act is in addition and not in derogation of

the Customs Act 1962 the result will be as follows : 38 42. The next question, is whether prosecution under Sections 132 and 135(1)(a) of the Customs Act, 1962 is

permitted under Section 4 of the Antiquities Act and

what is the impact of Sections 25 and 26 of the

Antiquities Act. Before we examine the relevant

provisions of the Customs Act , we may advert to a few

decisions about the maintainability of more than one

prosecution. 43. In Shiv Dutt Rai Fateh Chand & Ors. Vs. Union

of India & Anr. , 1983 (3) SCC 529, the matter arose

under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 . We think it

appropriate to advert to paragraphs 25 and 26 which

read as follows: Sometimes it means recovery of an amount as a
penal measure even in a civil proceeding. An
exaction which is not of compensatory
character is also termed as a penalty even
though it is not being recovered pursuant to 41 an order finding the person concerned guilty
 of a crime. In Article 20 (1) the expression
 'penalty' is used in the narrow sense as
 meaning a payment which has to be made or a
 deprivation of liberty which has to be
 suffered as a consequence of a finding that
 the person accused of a crime is guilty of
 the charge. 26. In Maqbool Hussain v. The State of Bombay 1953 SCR 730, the question for consideration
 was whether when the Customs authorities
 confiscated Certain goods under the Sea
 Customs Act there was a prosecution and the
 order of confiscation constituted a
 punishment within the meaning of clause (2)
 of Article 20. Negativing the said plea, this
 Court observed at SCR pages 738-739: 44. In V.K. Agarwal, Assistant Collector of customs

v. Vasantraj Bhagwanji Bhatia And Others 1988 (3) SCC

467, the Court was faced with an acquittal of the 42 accused person under Section 111 and 135 of the Customs

Act and yet he was sought to be prosecuted under Section 85 of the Gold (Control) Act, 1968. The Court

inter alia held as follows: twice but for two distinct offences
 constituted or made up of different
 ingredients the bar of the provision is
 inapplicable. In passing, it may be pointed out that the
 construction we have placed on Art. 20(2) of
 the Constitution and s. 26 of the General
 Clauses Act is precisely in line with the
 terms of s. 403(2) of the Criminal Procedure
 Code which runs: There is no manner of doubt that section
 403(1) does not come to rescue of the
 respondents 1 to 3 whereas section 403(2) of
 the Code clearly concludes the matter against
 them.” 45. In a recent judgment of this Court reported in State of Jharkhand V. Lalu Prasad Yadav 2017 (8) SCC 1

this Court conducted a survey of earlier case law and

this is what the court inter alia held: 44 What is prohibited under Article 20(2) is,
 that the second prosecution and conviction
 must be for the same offence. If the offences
 are distinct, there is no question of the
 rule as to double jeopardy being applicable. 29. It is thus clear that the same facts
 may rise to different prosecutions and
 punishment and in such an event the
 protection afforded by Article 20(2) is not
 available. It is settled law that a person
 can be prosecuted and punished more than once
 even on substantially same facts provided the
 ingredients of both the offences are totally
 different and they did not form the same
 offence.” 46. In State (NCT of Delhi) V. Sanjay 2014 (9) SCC

772, a criminal prosecution was launched under the Indian Penal Code and/or Mines and Minerals

(Development & Regulation) Act 1957 (hereinafter called

‘ MMDR Act ’) for mining from river beds without valid

licence and permits under the latter Act. There was no

complaint from the authorised officer under the Act. 45 This Court took the view that the ingredients

constitute the offence under the MMDR Act and the

ingredients of dishonestly removal of sand and gravel

from the river bed without the consent which is the

property of the State is a distinct offence under the Indian Penal Code , therefore, the Magistrate on receipt

of the Police Report for the commission of the offence

under Section 378 IPC can take cognizance without

awaiting the complaint which may be filed by the

authorised officer under the MMDR Act . The court inter

alia held as follows: 47. Now let us examine the scheme of the Customs

Act, 1962 . The Customs Act, 1962 purports to consolidate and amend

the law relating to customs. Section 11 of the Customs

Act provides as follows: (2) The purposes referred to in sub-section
 (1) are the following:— (a) the maintenance of the security of India; (b) the maintenance of public order and
 standards of decency or morality; (c) the prevention of smuggling; (d) the prevention of shortage of goods of
 any description; (e) the conservation of foreign exchange and
 the safeguarding or balance of payments; (f) the prevention of injury to the economy
 of the country by the uncontrolled import or
 export of gold or silver; (g) the prevention of surplus of any
 agricultural product or the product of
 fisheries; (h) the maintenance of standards for the
 classification, grading or marketing of goods
 in international trade; (i) the establishment of any industry; 47 (j) the prevention of serious injury to
domestic production of goods of any
description; (k) the protection of human, animal or plant
life or health; (l) the protection of national treasures of
artistic, historic or archaeological value; (m) the conservation of exhaustible natural
resources; (n) the protection of patents, trade marks
and copyrights; (o) the prevention of deceptive practices; (p) the carrying on of foreign trade in any
goods by the State, or by a Corporation owned
or controlled by the State to the exclusion,
complete or partial, or citizens of India; (q) the fulfilment of obligations under the
Charter of the United Nations for the
maintenance of international peace and
security; (r) the implementation of any treaty,
agreements or convention with any country; (s) the compliance of imported goods with any
laws which are applicable to similar goods
produced or manufactured in India; (t) the prevention of dissemination of
documents containing any matter which is
likely to prejudicially affect friendly
relations with any foreign State or is
derogatory to national prestige; (u) the prevention of the contravention of
any law for the time being in force; and (v) any other purpose conducive to the
interests of the general public.” 48 48. Chapter IV-B came to be inserted with effect

from 03/01/1969. It contains Section 11H . Section

11H(a) provides that unless the context otherwise

requires “illegal export” means the export of any goods

in contravention of the provisions of this Act or any

other law for the time being in force. Section 11(i) deals with the powers of Central Government to specify

goods having regard to the magnitude of illegal export

of certain class of goods or description in which case

it would become specified goods for which there are

separate restrictions contained in Section 11J , 11K and 11M . Section 11N falling under Chapter IVC provides

the Central government with power to exempt. It reads

as follows: 49. There are various provisions which relate to

levy of duty, assessment of duty, remission of duty

etc. with which we need not be detained. Section 39 of

the Customs Act provides that the master of a vessel

shall not permit the loading of any export goods, other

than baggage and mail bags, until an order has been

given by the proper officer granting entry-outwards to

such vessel. Section 40 of the Customs Act

contemplates that export goods are not be loaded unless

duly passed by the proper officer. Section 50 deals

with the procedure for clearance of export goods. Sub-

section (2) & (3) of Section 50 reads as follows: 51. Chapter XIV has the chapter heading

“Confiscation of Goods and Conveyances and Imposition 51 of Penalties”. Section 113 provides for confiscation

of goods attempted to be improperly exported etc. 52. Section 114 AA provides for penalty for use of

false and incorrect material. It came to be inserted

by Act 25 of 2006 only with effect from 30/07/2006. Section 117 deals with penalties for contravention etc.

which are not expressly provided. Section 119 deals

with confiscation of goods used for concealing smuggled

goods. Section 121 deals with confiscation of sale-

proceeds of smuggled goods. The word ‘smuggling’ has

been defined in Section 2 (39) reads as follows: 53. Section 125 provides for the power to give an

option to pay fine in lieu of confiscation. 52 54. Chapter XIVA deals with settlement of cases.

Various powers of the Settlement Commission are set out

in the provisions falling under the Chapter. Section

127(h) provides for granting immunity from prosecution

and penalty. 55. Chapter XVI provides for ‘Offences and

Prosecutions’. It is thereunder that Sections 132 and 135 appears: or (c) attempts to export any goods which he knows
or has reason to believe are liable to
confiscation under section 113; or (d) fraudulently avails of or attempts to avail
of drawback or any exemption from duty provided
under this Act in connection with export of
goods, he shall be punishable, — (i) in the case of an offence relating to,—

 (A) any goods the market price of which
 exceeds one crore of rupees; or

 (B) the evasion or attempted evasion of duty
 exceeding thirty lakh of rupees; or

 (C) such categories of prohibited goods as
 the Central Government may, by notification
 in the Official Gazette, specify; or

 (D) fraudulently availing of or attempting to
 avail of drawback or any exemption from duty
 referred to in clause (d), if the amount of
 drawback or exemption from duty exceeds
 thirty lakh of rupees, with imprisonment for
 a term which may extend to seven years and
 with fine: Provided that in the absence of
 special and adequate reasons to the contrary
 to be recorded in the judgment of the court,
 such imprisonment shall not be for less than
 one year; (ii) in any other case, with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to three years, or with
fine, or with both. (2) If any person convicted of an offence under
this section or under sub-section (1) of section 136 is again convicted of an offence
under this section, then, he shall be 54 punishable for the second and for every
 subsequent offence with imprisonment for a term
 which may extend to seven years and with fine: (2) No court shall take cognizance of any
 offence under section 136 ,— (a) where the offence is alleged to have been
 committed by an officer of customs not lower
 in rank than Assistant Commissioner of
 Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs,
 except with the previous sanction of the
 Central Government; (b) where the offence is alleged to have been
 committed by an officer of customs lower in
 rank than Assistant Commissioner of Customs
 or Deputy Commissioner of Customs, except
 with the previous sanction of the Principal
 Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of
 Customs. (3) Any offence under this Chapter may, either
 before or after the institution of prosecution,
 be compounded by the Principal Chief
 Commissioner of Customs or Chief Commissioner
 of Customs on payment, by the person accused of
 the offence to the Central Government, of such
 compounding amount and in such manner of
 compounding as may be specified by rules.
 Provided that nothing contained in this sub-
 section shall apply to— (a) a person who has been allowed to compound
 once in respect of any offence under sections
 135 and 135A ; (b) a person who has been accused of committing
an offence under this Act which is also an
offence under any of the following Acts,
namely:— (i) the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
 Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985); (ii) the Chemical Weapons Convention Act,
 2000 (34 of 2000); (iii) the Arms Act, 1959 (54 of 1959); (iv) the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (53
 of 1972); (c) a person involved in smuggling of goods
falling under any of the following, namely:— (i) goods specified in the list of Special
 Chemicals, Organisms, Materials, Equipment
 and Technology in Appendix 3 to Schedule 2
 (Export Policy) of ITC (HS) Classification of
 Export and Import Items of the Foreign Trade
 Policy, as amended from time to time, issued
 under section 5 of the Foreign Trade
 (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 (22 of
 1992); (ii) goods which are specified as prohibited
 items for import and export in the ITC (HS)
 Classification of Export and Import Items of
 the Foreign Trade Policy, as amended from
 time to time, issued under section 5 of the
 Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation)
 Act, 1992 (22 of 1992); (iii) any other goods or documents, which are
 likely to affect friendly relations with a
 foreign State or are derogatory to national
 honour; (d) a person who has been allowed to compound
once in respect of any offence under this
Chapter for goods of value exceeding rupees one
crore; (e) a person who has been convicted under this
 Act on or after the 30th day of December,
 2005.” 57. Section 140 of the Customs Act which deals with

offence by Companies is identically worded as Section

28 of the Antiquities Act. 58. At this juncture we may notice the provisions

of the 1947 Act in some greater detail. Section 3 provided that no person shall export any antiquity

except under the authority of a licence granted by the

Central Government. Section 4 read as follows: 59. Section 5 of the 1947 Act dealt with Penalty

and Procedure. It read as follows: 60. Under Section 4 of the 1947 Act, all

antiquities, the export of which is prohibited under Section 3 were to be deemed as goods which were

prohibited Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act where all

the provisions of the Sea Customs Act were to have

effect except Section 183 which correspond to Section

125 of the present customs Act. Section 19 of the Sea

Customs Act, 1878 read as follows: However, besides the same we notice that in respect of

some offences it is provided that such persons shall on

conviction before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not 60 exceeding certain limits (See Sections 167(72) & (74)).

Section 167 (75) deal with cases where on conviction

before a Magistrate, sentence of imprisonment or fine

or both were provided. The extent of punishment

varied. The scheme of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 thus

differs from the present Customs Act 1962. In other

words, in Section 167 of the Sea Customs Act, penalty

in the sense of monetary exaction, confiscation, or

both and lastly imprisonment and/or fine were all

classified under common heading ‘penalties’. 63. In fact, we find that this Court in the Assistant Collector of Customs, Calcutta vs. Sitaram

Agarwala and Another AIR 1966 SC 955 considered the

scheme of Sea Customs Act, 1878 as contained in

Section 167. Section 167 (8) contemplated the levy

of penalty by way of liability to confiscation and

penalty of three times not exceeding the value of

goods or not exceeding one thousand rupees. The 61 Court contrasted the said provision with Section 167

(81). The provision read as follows: carrying, removing, depositing,
harbouring, keeping or concealing or
in any manner dealing with any goods
which have been unlawfully removed
from a warehouse or which are
chargeable with a duty which has not
been paid or with respect to the
importation or exportation of which
any prohibition or restriction is
for the time being in force as
aforesaid; or

If any person is in relation to any
goods in any way knowingly concerned
in any fraudulent evasion or attempt
at evasion of any duty chargeable
thereon or of any such prohibition
or restriction as aforesaid or of
any provision of this Act applicable
to those goods,”

The penalty provided in Column III for the same was

that on confiscation before a Magistrate he will be

liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two 62 years or to fine or both. This is what the Court had

to declare in regard to the aforesaid penalties : 64. We may notice that under the Customs Act 1962, penalties and confiscation fall under Chapter

XIV. Penalties as contained in Chapter XIV would

correspond to customs offences in the Sea Customs

Act, 1878. As far as the criminal offences are

concerned, they are separately dealt with under

Chapter XVI. Yet the legislature has, in fact,

chosen to repeat the word ‘confiscation and penalty’

when it drafted Section 25 of the Antiquities Act. 65. There are two submissions we need to address

which are made on behalf of the appellant. By virtue

of Section 4 , all the provisions of the Customs Act 64 except to the extent of inconsistency is provided full

play. By virtue of the same prosecution under Sections

132 and 135 would lie provided that the ingredients of

the offence contained in Sections 132 and 135 are found

to exist. The second submission is even the word

‘penalty’ which is contained in Section 25 should be

interpreted in a broader sense so as to encompass

prosecution as contemplated under Sections 132 and 135 of the Customs Act besides the penalty in the form of

monetary exaction. 66. In order to arrive at an appropriate conclusion

in this regard we must cull out the ingredients of the

offences under Sections 132 and 135 of the Act. The

ingredients of Section 132 are as follows: If we contrast Section 132 of the Customs Act with Section 25 of the Act, it will be seen that the offence

under Section 25 of the Antiquity Act lies in exporting

or attempting to export any antiquity or art treasure

by violating Section 3 of the Act. When a person

exports or attempt to export an antiquity it is but

essential that he would be having a transaction with

relation to the customs. If in his transaction with

the customs in regard to export or attempted export of

any antiquity or art treasure he does any of the acts

contained in Section 132 of the Customs Act, can it be

said that he is being prosecuted for the same offence

as contained in Section 3 read with Section 25 of the

Antiquity Act. The answer is, No. Quite clearly the

ingredients of Section 25 of the Act and Section 132 of

the Customs Act are distinct and different from one

another. It may be true that it may be the same acts 66 or transaction which gives rise to the two distinct

offences but that may not matter. 67. The complaint in this case also adverts to Section 50 of the Customs Act. Section 50 declares it

to be a duty on the part of the exporter to make and

subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of the

contents of the shipping bill or bill of export. The

exporter is to ensure the accuracy and completeness of

information given by him. He has also to ensure

compliance with Section 50(3)(c) in law. Section

50(3)(C) of the Customs Act, it may be noticed declares

that the exporter shall ensure compliance with the

restriction or prohibition if any relating to the goods

under the Customs Act or under any other law for the

time being in force. Certainly, the restrictions or

prohibition within the meaning of Section 50(3)(C) would comprehend Section 3 read with Sections 25 and 26

of the Antiquities Act as Antiquities Act would

certainly be inter alia a law for the time being in 67 force within the meaning of Section 50(3)(c) .

Certainly, such provisions are complementary and not

antithetical to or inconsistent with Section 25 of the

Antiquities Act. If an exporter gives a false

declaration or information, should not the law

effectively deal with him? Section 132 does precisely

that by making false declaration as provided therein

punishable. It is inconceivable as to how such a

provision namely Section 132 would be inconsistent with Section 25 or 26 of the Antiquities Act. It is to be

noted at any rate that Section 25 apart from providing

for prosecution for the export or attempted export,

declares that the person concerned can be visited with

a confiscation proceedings and penalty. Even accepting

the contention of the respondent that what is permitted

under Section 25 is imposition of penalty in the sense

of monetary exaction, it is to be noted this is in

connection with the prosecution for the offence under Section 25 read with Section 3 of the Antiquities Act.

In other words, when there is a prosecution under

Section 25 of the Antiquities Act, it will not bar the 68 imposition of confiscation and penalty in the form of

monetary exaction but that does not mean that

prosecution for a distinct and separate offence as

contained in Section 132 of the Customs Act is in any

way prohibited as being inconsistent with Section 25 .

In this regard though for prosecution under the Customs

Act the sanctioning authority is different from the

authority to sanction prosecution under the Antiquities

Act, the authority to sanction prosecution under Section 26 is only qua the offence under Section 25 of

the Antiquities Act. The authority competent to

sanction prosecution under the Customs Act is the

exclusive authority to countenance prosecution for

offences under the Customs Act . So, there can be no

conflict if a prosecution under Section 132 of the

Customs Act is maintained after proper sanction by the

competent authority under the Customs Act . It would

not in any way violate either Section 25 or Section 26 of the Act. 68. Section 133 deals with obstruction of officers

of custom. It provides that if any person obstructs

any person of the customs in exercise of the power

under the Act he is liable for punishment. Section 134 penalizes resistance or refusal to allow a radiologist

to screen or to take X-ray picture of his body as per

the order of the Magistrate under Section 103 by

resisting or refusing to allow action on the basis of

advice of a registered medical practitioner for

bringing out goods secreted inside his body as provided

under Section 103 . Take a situation where a person

secretes an antiquity in his body and incurs the wrath

of section 134 . Can he be heard to say that

prosecution under the Customs Act is barred? Since the

case does not involve prosecution under these sections,

we are not making any final pronouncement in regard to

the same. 69. The time is now ripe for us to look at the

complaint which has been filed by the appellant. The

complaint inter alia appears as follows: 70. Under Section 26 of the Act, a prosecution

under Section 25(1) can be instituted only by or with

the sanction of an officer of the Government as

prescribed in this behalf. The antiquities and Art

Treasure Rules 1973 came to be published on 31st August 73 1973 in the Gazette. Rule 15 which was inserted with

effect from 30/11/1978 declared that the Director

General of Archaeological Survey of India shall be the

officer competent in terms of Section 26(1) to

institute or to sanction institution of prosecution for

the offence under Sub-section (1) of Section 25 of the

Act. 71. Coming finally to Section 135(1)(a) of the

Customs Act, the third limb which alone is invoked in

this case, penalises fraudulently evading or attempting

to evade any prohibition for the time being imposed

under the Customs Act or any other law for the time

being in force in regard to such goods. 72. Now, in regard to the last part in the

complaint inter alia there is reference to the export

of antiquity being prohibited under Section 3 of the

Antiquities Act, read with Section 3 of the Foreign

Trade (Development & Regulation) Act 1992 by virtue of 74 which the restrictions are deemed to be issued under Section 11 of the Customs Act, 1962 issued in paragraph

123 of Chapter XI of the Export And Import Policy 1992-

1997 which is deemed to be issued under Section 5 of

the Foreign Trade (Development & Regulation) Act 1992

specifically prohibiting the export of goods which are

restricted under any law for the time being in force.

Thereafter, what follows is crucial: - section (2) applies shall be deemed to be goods
 the import or export of which has been
 prohibited under section 11 of the Customs Act,
 1962 (52 of 1962) and all the provisions of
 that Act shall have effect accordingly.

 (4) without prejudice to anything contained in
 any other law, rule, regulation, notification
 or order, no permit or licence shall be
 necessary for import or export of any goods,
 nor any goods shall be prohibited for import or
 export except, as may be required under this
 Act, or rules or orders made thereunder.” 74. Of relevance to this case is sub section 3 of Section 3 . It purports to declare that all goods to 76 which any order under sub-section (2) applies are to be

deemed as goods the import and export of which is

prohibited under Section 11 of the Customs Act. Para

123 of the Import-Export policy 1992-1997 read as

follows: Section 24 as noticed confers power on the Director

General or his authorized nominee to determine the

question as to whether the articles etc. is an 82 antiquity or not or an art treasure or not. This

determination which is to be treated as final is for

the purposes of the Act. Undoubtedly, one of the

purposes of the Act would be a prosecution under Section 25 of the Act. In this case, the case of the

appellant is that the prosecution is under Sections 132 and 135(1)(a) of the Customs Act, 1962. Whether it is

necessary for the Customs Authorities to procure the

opinion of the Director General of Archaeological

Survey of India or his authorized officer for a

prosecution under the Customs Act ? 79. We have noticed the contents of the complaint.

There is undoubtedly reference to the prohibition

contained against export of antiquity, inter alia,

under the Antiquities Act. Under Section 4 of the

Antiquities Act, the Customs Act has been made

applicable except to the extent of the inconsistency.

The inter play between two enactments, can be

understood as follows – while the prosecution under the Customs Act in regard to the Antiquity or art treasure 83 may be permissible, when a question arises as to

whether an article is an antiquity or not or an art

treasure or not, the provisions contained under Section

24 of the Antiquities Act would be applicable and the

question must be decided by the Director General of

Archaeological Survey of India or his authorized

nominee and finality would be attached therewith. The

Director General or his authorized officers would be

the authorities who would have the necessary knowledge,

experience and could give an authoritative opinion in

the case of dispute as to whether an article is or is

not an antiquity or art treasure. By this process, we

would think that we can give full play on a harmonious

construction to both the provisions and what is more

giving the primacy to the antiquities Act where it is

called for accordingly. 80. It may be noticed that the concept of

‘inconsistency’ is found in Article 254 of the

Constitution of India. Article 254 has a marginal note

which speaks about inconsistencies between laws made by 84 Parliament and laws made by legislatures of the State.

The Article goes on to state that if the law made by

the State is repugnant to the law made the Parliament,

the law made by the Parliament to the extent of

repugnancy shall prevail. This is no doubt subject to

sub-Article (2). The said Article being a

constitutional provision dealing with the complex

subject of the quasi federal structure we have in India

in part may not be entirely apposite for interpreting

the provision of Section 4 which speaks about

inconsistency between the Customs Act, 1962 and the

Antiquities Act. However, we may only refer to a

Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in K.

Karunanidhi vs. Union of India and Another 1979 (3)

SCC 431. This Court proceeded to hold that the Tamil

Nadu Men (Criminal Misconduct) Act, 1973 was not

repugnant to the Indian Penal Code, Prevention of

Corruption Act and Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1952

and it was in addition to and not in derogation of any

law in force. The Court inter alia held in paragraph

24 as follows: This Court also held: Paragraph 43 of the said judgment reads as under: 85. The upshot of the above discussion is as

follows:- Prosecution under Sections 132 and 135(1)(a) of the Customs Act, 1962, is not barred in regard to

the antiquities or art treasures. Accordingly, we allow 89 the appeal and set aside the impugned order. The

complaint filed may be proceeded with as per law.

However, we make it very clear that pronouncement of

this order shall not come in the way of the Court

deciding the matter on its merits. The Court will

proceed to consider the matter on its own and shall not

be influenced by any observation which may have been

made in this order regarding merits. …………………………….J.
 (Ashok Bhushan)

 …………………………J.
 (K.M. Joseph)

New Delhi; February 27, 2019