1. This writ petition is by Zuber Ahmed, an ex-constable of the

 Central Reserve Police Force against a punishment order dated March 19,

 1993 inflicted by the Commandant, 84th Battalion, CRPF, Faridkot, Punjab

 dismissing him from service following an order passed earlier in the day

 awarding him sentence of simple imprisonment till the rising of the Court in

 a judicial trial held by the same Commandant-6th respondent concluding it in PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -2- ten days. The sentence was imposed on the petitioner by the Commandant

 after trial by virtue of powers vested in him by the Central Government

 under s. 16 of the Central Reserve Police Force Act, 1949 read with GSR-43

 (F) dated January 26, 1978 (' CRPF Act ' for short) which authorized him to

 act as the Chief Judicial Magistrate to try the commission of offences

 committed by a member of the Force including the one under the residuary

 clause in sub-s. (n) of s. 10 of the Act under which the petitioner was

 charged and tried for what in pith and substance amount to an attempt to

 molest and to outrage the modesty of a woman by leaving his call of duty

 for about 10 minutes by change of guard post with another constable though

 the charges are not exactly worded thus. This petition was admitted by the

 Division Bench on November 29, 2001 to be heard within one year but

 could not be for reasons beyond control of this Court in the face of

 mounting arrears of cases. Before he approached this Court the petitioner

 had already lost six years in pursuing his remedy in the Calcutta High Court

 only to be told at the end of the day that it lacked territorial jurisdiction in

 the matter. That is how he came to this Court in 1999 being the proper

 forum for vindication of his rights asserted against the CRPF for alleged

 wrongful dismissal from service in the year 1993 when the petitioner was a

 young constable aged about 24 years. His date of birth recorded in the

 dismissal order is December 14, 1967 which makes him about 48 years of

 age. 2. The Act reveals that s. 10 lists sixteen less heinous offences which

 invite imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -3- which may extend to three months' pay, or with both. Under s.10 (n) a

 member of the Force is punishable if he:"is guilty of any act or omission

 which, though not specified in this Act, is prejudicial to good order and

 discipline;" The sentence till the rising of the court was imposed on the

 petitioner for committing offences defined in s. 10 (n) of the Act vide

 judgment of conviction and sentence dated March 19, 1993 on the following

 charge:- 3. What followed was dismissal from service based on judgment of

 conviction on the charge framed by virtue of recording of finding of guilt

 and order of sentence of imprisonment till the rising of the court. The Office

 Order dismissing the petitioner from service carried further burdens. The

 period of suspension from October 22, 1992 to March 19, 1993 was ordered

 to be treated as period not spent on duty. The pay and allowances were

 restricted to the subsistence allowance already drawn. The period described

 as desertion from November 16, 1992 to January 1, 1993 (56 days) was

 treated as dies non. However, no charge was framed against Zuber Ahmed PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -4- for desertion from duty during any period including the period of

 suspension, which could have been a serious charge, if laid, on a member of

 the Force. 4. The statement of the history of facts, briefly put, are on the

 following lines: The petitioner was enrolled as a Constable in CRPF on

 April 30, 1987 and was allotted the 84th Battalion, CRPF. He served at

 different places in Pinjore and Jammu etc. and was, ultimately, posted to the

 84th Bn., then stationed in Police Lines, Faridkot, Punjab. While posted on

 field duty at the CRPF Headquarters at Faridkot, the petitioner was

 deployed on guard duty to the private residence of Shri Parkash Singh

 Badal, the then former Chief Minister, Punjab to stand security and escort

 duty at his private residence in Chandigarh. 5. On the intervening night of 19th /20th October, 1992, the petitioner

 was deputed on guard duty at the front gate of the residence along with one

 Constable Himmat Singh posted on the fateful day to guard the backyard of

 the house. The case set up against the petitioner was that while the two

 guards were on duty from 2200 hours to 2350 hours, on the night of the

 occurrence, an unidentified person entered the servant quarters of one Kala

 Singh, a personal aide [in the charge framed on March 5, 1993 the

 nomenclature 'Security aide' is used] of the then ex-Chief Minister, Punjab

 who lived with his family in the servant quarters at the rear of the house.

 While the then ex-Chief Minister and Kala Singh were away on tour, it was

 alleged by Smt Gurdev Kaur wife of Kala Singh that a person whose face

 was covered had trespassed into her private family quarters and had tried to PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -5- outrage her modesty by muffling her mouth and threatening her with dire

 consequences if she did not keep her mouth shut. She alleged that the

 intruder was in 'CRP dress' holding a rifle. 6. On October 22, 1992, the Commandant, 84th Bn., CRPF placed

 the petitioner, Constable Himmat Singh and Lance Naik U.N.Gaikwar,

 Guard Commander, also posted at the residence for security duty, under

 suspension in exercise of powers conferred by r. 27(a) of the CRPF Rules,

 1955 in contemplation of departmental proceedings. A preliminary

 enquiry/investigation was ordered vide office order dated October 27, 1992

 for misbehaviour/manipulation of records regarding incident dated October

 19, 1992 with Smt Gurdev Kaur. It was conducted by Shri P. Sivanandan,

 Assistant Commandant, CRPF who went into the incident and found that on

 the intervening night of 19th /20th October, 1992, Constable Himmat Singh

 was on guard duty on the rear side of the house where Smt Gurdev Kaur

 lived with her family. The petitioner is alleged to have approached and

 requested Constable Himmat Singh for swapping duties for a few minutes,

 which were agreed to by Constable Himmat Singh and accordingly, they

 exchanged places for a while. The incident is timed to the period as said

 before from 2200 hours to 2350 hours. Both the guards allegedly reported

 the incident to their senior officer/s thereafter. When the petitioner reported

 the matter to his Platoon Commandant, his demeanour was recorded by the

 Force official as in a "...fearsome state of mind and was unable to speak due

 to fear of the consequences of the act committed by him, which would

 ultimately point out that he was the person who had entered the room of PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -6- Shri Kala Singh with bad motives". The intention of Constable Himmat

 Singh in exchanging duties was seen as one without ill motive. However, it

 was found that he should not have done what he did without knowledge of

 his Guard Commandant. The then Platoon Commandant posted at the

 residence on that day/night was found to have concealed facts from his

 superiors and was said to have tried to hush up the matter. Till that time, nor

 thereafter was a CRPF police case or first information report under the

 criminal law registered on the incident against the petitioner. 7. The Commandant, 80th Bn. CRPF, Mr M.S.Sethi, who was not the

 petitioner's Commandant considered the preliminary enquiry report

 authored by Mr Sivanandan, Assistant Commandant, and recommended

 dispassionately on November 13, 1992 that "No judicial trial is

 recommended as this will pave the way to unwanted publicity of the

 incident as well as there is a likelihood of tarnishing the fidelity of a woman

 through cross-examination etc".I should imagine that there was wisdom in

 this line of thinking. It was recommended by the officer that a departmental

 enquiry be conducted against the petitioner for gross negligence of duties in

 entering the house of Kala Singh with bad motive. Constable Himmat Singh

 was also recommended to be dealt with departmentally for swapping duties

 without permission of superiors. Constable Himmat Singh is said to have

 apologized to Smt Gurdev Kaur even though he was not at fault. Lance Naik

 U.N.Gaikwar was recommended to be absolved of the charges although he

 was posted on the spot as Guard Commandant but could not be imputed

 knowledge of the private arrangement between the two guards. It is the PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -7- stand of the respondent CRPF in paragraph 7 of the written statement that

 the preliminary enquiry report was examined and considered by superior

 authorities who ordered departmental enquiry against the defaulters vide

 office order "dated 30.1.1992 except Constable Zuber Ahmed as he had

 deserted the Force. The petitioner reported at his own on 11.1.1993 after

 desertion of 56 days and he was tried judicially". The reason stated for

 departure from domestic enquiry was by assumption of acts of desertion

 which would have been rather serious in nature with respect to a member of

 the disciplined force. But the charge framed was not of desertion. 8. It is the further case that on the intervention of the Personal

 Assistant to the then ex-Chief Minister, Punjab on October 20, 1992 the

 matter was decided to be reported to the 84th Bn., being the petitioner's

 parent battalion. This is how the matter fell to the lot of the 6th

 respondent/Commandant who would later on sentence and dismiss the

 petitioner from service on the same day. On February 12, 1993 the Comdt.

 84 Bn. CRPF passed an order on the preliminary enquiry report,

 recommending suitable disciplinary action against Constable Zuber Ahmed

 in accordance with the rules on the subject for his gross negligence for

 entering the house of Kala Singh with bad motive while on duty. It was as a

 result of the said preliminary enquiry report that Sub Inspector M.J. Kujur

 and Lance Naik U.N Gaikwar were awarded minor punishment of

 "Severely Censure" while the regular departmental enquiry was pending

 against Constable Himmat Singh, which ended in the revocation of his

 suspension w.e.f April 28, 1993 and infliction of the punishment of PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -8- confinement to quarter guard for 28 days with forfeiture of pay and

 allowances for the period besides treating his suspension period not spent

 on duty. The mitigating factor in his case as recorded is: "The Constable has

 taken earnest efforts to avoid any bad name to the Force and apologized to

 Smt Gurdev Kaur, even though he was not at fault. This act had reduced the

 publicity to a great extend." 9. The petitioner was alleged to have confessed to entering the house

 of Smt Gurdev Kaur and of later asking for her pardon. He is alleged to

 have given a written admission of having committed the offence by way of a

 'confessional statement'. The recommendation against holding a judicial trial

 and instead a departmental enquiry was not accepted by the Commandant,

 84th Bn., CRPF, who decided to put the petitioner to judicial trial by

 invoking s.10 (n) in exercise of powers conferred by sub-s. (2) of s.16 of the

 Act, 1949 read with GSR-43 (F) dated January 26, 1978. S.16 (2) empowers

 the Central Government to invest the Commandant or Assistant

 Commandant with the powers of a Magistrate to try an offence committed

 by a member of the Force punishable under the Act notwithstanding

 anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure . The Central

 Government has invested such power in the Commandant to act as the Chief

 Judicial Magistrate, duly authorized by law to convict and pass sentence of

 imprisonment in a prescribed place as by warrant of the regular criminal

 courts of the land. Then on, vide order dated March 5, 1993, the

 Commandant/Chief Judicial Magistrate framed charge against the petitioner

 which read that the petitioner had left his place of duty and had entered in PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -9- the house of Smt Gurdev Kaur and caught hold of her mouth with mala fide

 intention and on an alarm raised by the children of Smt Gurdev Kaur, he ran

 away from the spot. Thereby, he committed an offence punishable under S.

 10 (n) of the Act within the cognizance of that Court. Introducing the

 children of Smt Gurdev Kaur in the wording of the charge sheet, the

 handiwork of the Commandant/Chief Judicial magistrate, was perhaps ill

 thought out being potentially sinister and insidious in their context and

 therefore Mr Sethi's advise I should think was the more practical in not

 creating a situation which might subject the lady's fidelity to the vagaries of

 cross examination when produced in the witness box in a criminal trial. The

 children were never produced at the trial. Be that as it may, the charge sheet

 was framed and served on Zuber Ahmed who pleaded not guilty on March

 9, 1993 and claimed trial. 10. Mere acquaintance with the bare Act manifests that s. 10 prescribes less heinous offences while s. 9 enumerates the more heinous

 ones. S. 10 (n) of the Act prescribes that a member of the Force shall be

 punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or

 with fine which may extend to 3 months or with both, if he is guilty of any

 act or omission which, though not specified in the Act, is prejudicial to good

 order and discipline. Ten days after claiming innocence by pleading not

 guilty the trial was rushed through concluding it by conviction. The

 petitioner was then 24 years of age and had put in about 5 years of service

 as a constable in the Force. Today he is about 48 years of age. What is used

 against the petitioner in recording judgment of conviction by the Chief PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -10- Judicial Magistrate is a confessional statement in writing given when the

 preliminary fact finding enquiry was conducted. 11. The prosecution examined Constable Himmat Singh PW1, Lance

 Naik U.N.Gaikwar PW2, Sub Inspector M.J.Kujur PW3 while Smt Gurdev

 Kaur, the prime witness testified as PW4. The petitioner was not identified

 by Smt Gurdev Kaur in court. The statement of Smt Gurdev Kaur recorded

 on solemn affirmation during the trial in the petitioner's case titled Union of

 India vs. Zuber Ahmed reads as follows:- 12. The muffling 'squeezing' glossing given to the occurrence is

 mythical and stands belied by the statement on oath of Smt Gurdev Kaur

 herself that the man neither touched her nor teased her nor manhandled her

 in the room by the cot in the servant quarter. Though she deposed that the

 intruding man's 'mouth' was covered but she did not say that his head was

 also covered as is the view of the 6th respondent formed in the judgment of

 conviction. The confession or admission was clearly in the backdrop of

 pressure or duress seeking pardon on the condition of not reporting the

 matter to Sh. P.S.Badal himself as borne out from the deposition of Smt

 Gurdev Kaur in court. She sought pardon from the alleged culprits under

 veiled and extreme threat and on this insistence did the Sub Inspector ask

 the two persons [Constable Zuber Ahmed and Constable Himmat Singh]

 who were on duty to seek pardon anyhow. And if they did not confess to the

 crime/misconduct worse would follow, over which no one would have any

 control. 13. When the petitioner stepped into the witness box after conclusion

 of the prosecution evidence it is recorded by the 6th respondent in the trial

 proceedings that: "The prosecution has led certain evidence against you to

 the following effect what have you to say about it?" The following

 questions inter alia were put to Zuber Ahmed by the Commandant/CJM

 though there is no evidence on record that the petitioner knew or was made

 aware of what was recorded in writing in English by the court or that he was PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -12- made to understand it in the language known to him:- 14. A combined reading of the first question and its answer would

 reveal that when Constable Himmat Singh came to the front gate only then

 the petitioner left the sentry post as he was 'feeling dizziness'. It cannot be

 expected that at that moment the petitioner would seek permission to take a

 little rest when Constable Himmat Singh came as replacement on the

 alleged personal interchange of duty. The position may have been different

 had the petitioner left the front sentry post by abandoning it and would

 come later on to his post. Although in his statement, the petitioner did not

 depose or admit that he exchanged duty with Constable Himmat Singh. 15. On closing of the prosecution evidence the petitioner in his

 statement under s. 313 Cr.P.C. denied having given in writing any writing

 construable as a mea culpa of offence attributed to him and defended

 himself stating that he did not enter the house of Smt Gurdev Kaur nor had

 she recognized him as the intruder of her privacy. In this statement the

 petitioner also pleaded in defence that only after he left the 84th Bn. CRPF,

 Faridkot and during his absence, one Head Constable Ram Karan had

 incited Smt Gurdev Kaur to name him due to his personal quarrel with him.

 However, no defence evidence was led despite opportunity. But he had a

 right to keep silent and leave the prosecution to the prosecution. 16. There is no witness to the incident except to the extent of the

 deposition of Smt Gurdev Kaur and, therefore, the key prosecution witness

 who could not say with any absolute certainty as to who was the one who

 had tried to commit an offence upon her person. On his part Constable

 Himmat Singh deposed as follows at the trial :- PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -14- Most certainly, the case is one of circumstantial evidence. The

 Chief Judicial Magistrate has relied solely on the handwritten statement of

 the accused [s. 161, Cr.P.C .] signed by him 'ROAC' though contents were

 not scribed by the accused, as found in the case papers of his allegedly

 admitting guilt before the police personnel investigating the incident. But

 the Chief Judicial Magistrate has held that since Smt Gurdev Kaur testified

 that the person was in uniform, therefore, it gave rise to suspicion on the

 accused of having entered her house. The Commandant/CJM reasoned as

 under in his judgment of conviction:- 17. On this facile reasoning based on suspicion, the petitioner was

 held guilty of the charge. The order of sentence was also pronounced on the

 same day i.e. on March 19, 1993. The petitioner was sentenced by a flea bite

 punishment to undergo simple imprisonment on March 19, 1993 till the

 rising of the court. In this manner, the petitioner stands convicted of the

 offence attributed. It is common case that no appeal was filed against the

 judgment and order of conviction and sentence dated March 19, 1993. On

 March 19, 1993 itself, the petitioner was dismissed from service vide P-5 as

 a result of recording a judgment of conviction and order of sentence. The

 order of dismissal has been passed under s. 12 (1) of the CRPF Act. The

 provision reads as follows: - guard or such other place as the Court or the
 Commandant may consider suitable." PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -17- 18. In the present case the Commandant/6th respondent has acted as

 both Chief Judicial Magistrate and Disciplinary Authority which may not be

 legally impermissible in terms of s. 16 read with r. 27 but at the same time

 raises a cause of serious concern of impartiality and bias in the mind of this

 Court of such dual exercise of jurisdiction, one fine evening, for the court to

 thoroughly satisfy itself on the question whether the punishment fits the

 offence or the offence the punishment or whether it was committed at all as

 alleged and whether there has been any miscarriage of justice in dealing

 with the petitioner and to apply extensively the rule against bias which

 ensures that no one should be a judge in his own cause. Here was a

 prosecutor, a judge and a disciplinary authority all rolled into one dynamite

 stick with three pins. The cause of worry really is whether such a triad of

 absolute, unbridled power of such wide amplitude may result in prejudice

 per se or a reasonable likelihood of bias or a substantial loss of probity and

 impartiality in the eyes, so to speak, of twelve good men and true who might

 always expect dispassionateness and non-arbitrariness in acts of holders of

 public office which if led astray may cause a permanent scar on the judicial

 mind leaving a bad taste in the mouth. But we can also not discount, as is

 equally well settled, that mere possibility of abuse of a provision of law

 cannot be a ground to declare the provision invalid and to say this while we

 are not on the vires of the provision. Yet, what disturbs this Court even more

 radically than anything else is that the so called 'confessional statement'

 before the police has solely been used against the petitioner as a ground for

 conviction which was stoutly denied at the trial while claiming innocence of PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -18- the charge framed. Smt Gurdev Kaur could not say with any certitude as to

 who the man was who trespassed into her privacy at night. It also seems

 rather peculiar that Smt Gurdev Kaur did not raise an alarm herself when

 her mouth was muffled [in the charge framed on March 5, 1993 read as: 19. The issue of interposing duties is largely the statement of

 Constable Himmat Singh. The Chief Judicial Magistrate holds that since the

 petitioner did not lead defence evidence to rebut false implication in the

 case, this is a material circumstance against him. Trite it is to say that the

 prosecution has to depend on its own strengths to bring home the charge and PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -19- not depend on the strengths or weaknesses of the case of the accused when

 law permits him a right of silence. Burden of proving guilt in common law

 jurisdictions cannot be shifted on an accused who is not to prove his

 innocence. The reasoning adopted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate while

 recording the finding of guilt is based on the facile and wrong assumption

 that it must have been the petitioner alone who committed the offence since

 he was in 'uniform' with 'rifle' duly posted on guard duty and this lent

 credence and "gave suspicion of the accused having entered the house of

 Gurdev Kaur." It is well settled that mere suspicion however strong cannot

 take the place of proof. To this extent the judgment is seriously flawed as it

 inverts onus which is not how our law works. 20. It would not be out of place to mention that the petitioner's

 statutory service appeal against the dismissal order was rejected by the

 DIGP, CRPF, Ferozepur vide order dated May 15, 1993. In the written

 statement filed by the CRPF on notice issued by this Court, an objection has

 been raised and pressed at the hearing that against the appellate order, a

 statutory remedy was available under r. 29 by a revision petition presented

 before the next superior authority to the appellate authority, which

 alternative remedy has not been availed of before approaching court in writ

 jurisdiction. I would keep my findings on this point for later discussion in

 this order. 21. It deserves a mention that the petitioner had earlier approached

 the Calcutta High Court against the order of dismissal in CO No.10503 (W)

 of 1993. The writ petition was dismissed on June 29, 1999 for lack of PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -20- territorial jurisdiction in the Calcutta High Court since the cause of action

 had accrued in Punjab though the alleged occurrence had taken place at

 Chandigarh. The Calcutta High Court found that the writ could not be

 entertained only because the appellate order passed in Ferozepur, Punjab

 was communicated to the petitioner at Calcutta. The appellate order may

 have given right of action but not cause of action to the petitioner. Liberty

 was granted to the petitioner to approach the appropriate forum of redress of

 his grievances but in the meanwhile the petitioner had spent six years before

 the Calcutta High Court without being told off in the first hearing that the

 writ did not lie for want of territorial jurisdiction. That is how the petitioner

 approached this Court by way of the present petition. The petitioner had

 impleaded Shri Pushkar Singh, Commandant/Chief Judicial Magistrate who

 was arrayed as the 6th respondent in the Calcutta proceedings under Article

 226/227 of the Constitution, and in this petition as well he has impleaded

 him by name but he has not caused appearance and filed a response to the

 petition. 22. In view of the complexities of the matter emerging from the case

 papers and the original record of the trial, involving intermingling of service

 law issues with the criminal law of sentencing and in order to command full

 assistance, this Court appointed Mr Anil Malhotra to be the learned amicus

 which request he gracefully accepted. Since I found some thorny but

 significant issues involving criminal law interpretation which required due

 expert deliberation of a learned senior criminal practitioner as well, I

 requested Mr Malhotra on January 14, 2015 to request Mr R.S. Cheema, PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -21- Senior Advocate, learned Senior Counsel of this Court if he could find time

 from his current professional preoccupations at New Delhi to provide his

 valuable insights in the matter through the good offices of the learned

 amicus curiae for the consideration of this Court. This Court expresses its

 gratitude to Mr Cheema to have not only supplied inputs in writing through

 the amicus upon discussion held between them and reduced in writing per

 kind hand of the amicus but I am even more thankful that Mr Cheema has

 taken out his precious time on his own to address the Court as well on

 February 6, 2015 on the specific query posed by this Court as to the

 implications of the conviction and sentence imposed in criminal law till the

 rising of the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate in the light of the charge

 framed in the criminal trial faced by the petitioner and further as to what

 were its implications on the punishment of dismissal from service separately

 imposed. Earlier, in addition to his detailed written submissions the amicus

 placed on record further additional written submissions dated January 21,

 2015 containing the view point of the learned Senior Counsel as also the

 further supplementary submissions of the learned amicus. On January 28,

 2015, the amicus also placed on record of this Court a 90 pages compilation

 comprising of 6 Judgements, extracts of the Criminal Procedure Code , 1898

 ( Cr.P.C ., 1898) as also relevant parts of the 41st Report of the Law

 Commission of India, Volume 1, September 1969, suggesting changes to be

 made in the Cr. P. C., 1898. The learned senior counsel urged his thoughtful

 views on the aspects of criminal law and writ jurisdiction rolling into one

 before this Court lending considerable clarity on the intermingled PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -22- proposition arising in the present case whereby dismissal from service was

 based solely on a conviction till the rising of the court to which views I will

 refer at the appropriate place in the discussions in this judgment, and for

 which sagacious advice this court is indeed grateful. 23. The matter was thus re-heard at length on the contentions

 canvassed on either side and judgment was reserved for pronouncement and

 is being released today. 24. First of all, Mr Surinder Sharma, the learned counsel appearing

 for the petitioner in his opening gambit submitted that his client has been

 denied a fair criminal trial which concluded in ten days without following

 due procedure established by law. No complaint by Smt Gurdev Kaur was

 served on him. None was made in writing for him to reply to. None exists

 on record. Had such an opportunity been afforded he could have cleared

 doubts and suspicions in the minds of his superior officers. Many other

 apparent flaws have been pointed out by the learned counsel in the trial

 record with reference to due process established by law in the Code of

 Criminal Procedure , 1973 which was mandatory for the trial court to follow

 even acting as Commandant-cum-Chief Judicial Magistrate under special

 powers conferred on him by the CRPF Act . He submits that there is no eye

 witness to the occurrence. He says that Constable Himmat Singh was

 awarded only 28 days quarter guard for involvement in the same occurrence

 and is still in service. He submits that the story does not appear plausible or

 believable where a person who is under threat of an alleged criminal assault,

 which charge is not laid, in the security of a private quarter in the private PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -23- residence of an ex-Chief Minister and the wife of a close personal aide

 would not bring the house down herself wailing but wait for her children to

 raise the alarm. He points out that the conviction is based on suspicion and

 suspicion has no place in the criminal law although it may have a hand in

 domestic proceedings. But no departmental enquiry was held on the charge

 before ordering the severest penalty of dismissal from service. On the same

 day i.e. on March 19, 1993, the trial was concluded; finding of conviction

 recorded; sentence of simple imprisonment imposed till the rising of the

 court followed ruthlessly by the dismissal order passed by the same person

 that held the trial and wore three hats. Such measures would not appear to

 be a fair, objective, proportionate or judicious exercise of disciplinary

 authority protected by the shield of what disciplined forces may do while

 the law courts have traditionally been perceived reluctant to enter into

 defence thickets. This may lend support to the action being dubbed rather

 vindictive, excessive and pre-meditated giving rise to a reasonable

 likelihood of bias, given that bias is inferential from a sequence of events

 and actions of a person vested with such potent power which appears to go

 almost unchecked unless there was a reasonable exercise by the appellate

 authority to do justice in rationalizing punishment in appeal, which element

 is also found is lacking in the order upholding the order of dismissal from

 service. The facts of the case and the lack of conclusive evidence did not

 warrant such magnitude of harm to be visited on a young constable only to

 deprive him of his livelihood. That justice must not only be done but should

 be seen to be done is not paying lip service to a platitude but is verily the PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -24- cornerstone of the edifice of justice-in-action. Every judge, unless he is a

 bad judge, knows that the right thing to do is to apply the oft-repeated

 saying of Lord Chief Justice Hewart in Rex v. Sussex Justices; Ex parte

 McCarthy, [1924] 1 KB 256: [1923] All ER Rep 233 : "It is not merely of

 some importance, but is of fundamental importance that justice should not

 only be done, but should manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done". 25. Section 16 of the CRPF Act empowers the Central Government to

 vest powers of a criminal court on either the Commandant or the Assistant

 Commandant to deal with offences committed by a member of the Force.

 These are two different people. The choice of the Central Government has

 fallen on the Commandant. But the Assistant Commandant is not the

 disciplinary authority of a constable under r. 27 which remains the

 Commandant. The question which then surfaces is where the Commandant

 is a persona designata of both the Trial Court/Chief Judicial Magistrate and

 the designated disciplinary authority and then would his actions while

 discharging functions of disciplinary authority be protected by the doctrine

 of necessity or would the principles of natural justice, natural law, fair

 procedure, fairness-in-action etc. stand above the doctrine of necessity and

 be the governing principle separating the two. If the Assistant Commandant

 were the designated trial court notified under s. 16 then there would be

 automatic separation of the disciplinary authority under r. 27 in the

 Commandant making exercise of both jurisdictions free of doubt and

 acquitting admirably the charge of partiality and reasonable likelihood of

 bias. This would be the ideal situation and the cherished goal. The PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -25- legislature perhaps must have foreseen such a crisis when it included a

 choice in delegation of authority between the Commandant and the

 Assistant Commandant in s. 16 of the Act. Therefore, to my mind the

 doctrine of necessity cannot be applied in the face of availability of choices,

 one to be the court, the other to act as the designated disciplinary authority

 under the rules. A rational via media may have to be found to avert such

 anomalous situations in the future. If a judicial trial were to be held it could

 easily have been entrusted to some other independent Commandant or

 Assistant Commandant to exercise powers of the Chief Judicial Magistrate.

 There would have been more transparency and less finger-pointing in such

 executive choice by delegation or sub-delegation of power to do acts and

 things for altogether purposes and intendments. Such a division of power

 would have been more in accord with Glasnost, openness, transparency and

 fairness-in-action which is an accepted facet of reasonableness in Article 14 of the Constitution. If it was known from day one that conviction and

 sentence may result in dismissal and the trial court would unhappily also be

 the disciplinary authority of Zuber Ahmed such a path ought to have been

 avoided. The more I ponder on this dual or rather triple role, the more my

 judicial conscience gets disturbed. One could fix a fellowman just like that

 in true Kafkaesque style at the trial by a surreal distortion of facts. Franz

 Kafka in The Trial tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a

 remote, inaccessible authority, with the nature of his crime revealed to

 neither him nor the reader. But this hindsight to make the future safer for the

 CRPF man in the dock is for the legislature to visit, examine and debate or PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -26- at any rate at the highest echelons in CRPF to think over, re-visit and

 introspect that it may always be better that justice is seen to be done even-

 handedly and judiciously to avoid a situation altogether which may not

 recur by depositing uncontrolled authority in a single person and instead

 apply tenets of separation of powers, following the separation of the

 executive and the judiciary in the refurbished Code of Criminal Procedure ,

 1973 which ushered in an era where the last codified signs of the police

 State were dismantled forever leaving justice to be dispensed with by the

 judicial officers working under the control of the various High Courts, the

 rank and file of officers not employed under the State but discharging

 sovereign duties in connection with the affairs of the State, the Court itself

 qualifying as 'State' within Article 12 of the Constitution. 26. Here is thus a case where two irreconcilable stories were

 recounted by Mrs Gurdev Kaur in her two statements, one during

 'investigation' in a preliminary enquiry, the other at the trial which twin have

 haplessly led to the conviction of Zuber Ahmed on account of the pre-

 determined mindset of the Commandant/Judicial Magistrate 1st Class who

 may have had scant judicial training albeit insufficient to handle a free and

 fair trial by applying established and rudimentary principles of the criminal

 law and procedure which only can guarantee a man not be dunked in the

 pool of crime without any probative evidence to fall on and the onus duly

 discharged by the prosecution beyond a reasonable doubt and to the

 satisfaction of the court, the court of law as known to the modern world

 judicial trial. Therefore, the Central Government and the CRPF ought to PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -27- examine this issue threadbare to see whether it is any longer safe and proper

 to leave a Commandant to conduct a judicial trial empowered to record

 findings of conviction and awarding of sentence to imprisonment on a

 member of the Force, even of till the rising of the Court. And whether the

 Commandant can be permitted to don the robes of a Chief Judicial

 Magistrate and disciplinary authority simultaneously, when holders-of-

 office should ever stand high above the trial in pursuit of truth and justice in

 making a disinterested, calm and rational judgment on facts and

 circumstances available and to desist from casually and callously passing

 orders which tend to visit terrible civil consequences on a fellow citizen

 with compassion and proportion so that no man in the dock goes away

 feeling he short-changed and wronged. 27. To return to the other facts of the case, the learned counsel for the

 petitioner admits that an appeal against the conviction was not filed and,

 therefore, the judgment is final. The conviction and sentence till the rising

 of the court is substantive imprisonment within the meaning of s.12 of the

 Act. The punishment awarded is the minimum in the range available even

 without looking to the mechanics of the Act and when the punishments

 described therein are read the sentence imposed is not found among the

 provisions of the Act and this flea bite sentence of till the rising of the court

 by itself shows that the charge, not to speak of a criminal charge, was not

 taken seriously in terms of penal measurement in sentencing. Nevertheless,

 Mr Sharma extricates his case from the criminal law angle and brings it

 within the fold of the limitations provided in r.27 of the CRPF Rules, 1955. PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -28- Rule 27 falls in Chapter VI of the rules which deals with discipline and

 procedure for holding departmental enquiries and enumerates the

 disciplinary authorities competent to impose punishment on persons in

 various ranks. This rule prescribes the procedure for award of civil

 punishment. In the Table under r.27, it is provided that dismissal or removal

 from the Force can be inflicted on a Constable by a Commandant but only

 after formal departmental enquiry. It is so expressly stated in column No.1

 which lists out punishments and column No.7 of the Table pays due regard

 to the due process required to be followed; "Dismissal or removal from the

 Force"- "To be inflicted after formal departmental enquiry." In the present

 case, no formal departmental enquiry was conducted. He submits that the 6th

 respondent seems to have pre-determined the end and then found means to

 justify the end. Therefore, it is urged that the dismissal order is legally bad

 and biased based on a fallacious conviction and sentence till the rising of

 the court only to somehow get rid of the petitioner. While r. 27 lays down

 the procedure for holding regular enquiries, s. 12 of the Act leaves it to the

 discretion of the disciplinary authority in which cases dismissal should

 follow sentence. This obviously means a careful reading of the judgment of

 conviction and the gravity of the misconduct arising from it by proper

 application of mind before proceeding further in the matter and making up

 the mind on conduct which led to conviction. But then the author of the

 judgment of conviction himself wears the glove of the disciplinary authority

 which may cloud objectivity in assessing the quantum of punishment and

 the correctness of taking the extreme step of dismissal from service. PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -29- 28. A combined reading of s. 12 and r. 27 leaves serious doubt in this

 Court whether r.27 can be avoided altogether as unlike Article 311 (2) (a) of

 the Constitution which affords public servants certain protections on

 conviction and the statutory limitations prescribed therein but s.12 of the

 Act, which is pre Constitution, does not speak of conduct which led to

 conviction to be the operating rule of dismissal when it is discretion based

 by the use of the word 'may' therein. Mere incantation of the words "conduct

 which led to the conviction" is not constitutionally sufficient. There is more

 to it. Disciplinary authority cannot divorce itself from duty to disclose

 reason which weighed in its mind and led it to inflict the severest civil

 punishment of dismissal. The contours of criminal and civil liability by

 virtue of those words get merged in the final dispensation and remain

 inseparable. Toward this end there is nothing clearly noticeable in the

 impugned order of dismissal whether dismissal was alone the best choice or

 facts demanded so for the court to apply the well recognized principle of

 non-interference in the choice of punishment imposed by the executive

 authority. Even Article 311 (2) (a) does not confer automatic power to

 dismiss simpliciter on mere conviction except when conduct which led to

 conviction justifies the action taken. These words have been used in the

 dismissal order passed by the 6th respondent when he refers to conduct

 which led to conviction but then the order is bereft of reasoning, however

 brief they could have been, but surely indicative of process of reasoning and

 due application of mind. But substantive provisions of S. 12 do not speak

 of such express words as "conduct which led to conviction" and limit PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -30- themselves to the following expressions: 29. S. 12 has not been amended to fine tune it with Article 311 (2) (a) of the Constitution. It stands where it was in 1949, though the rules are post

 Constitution framed in 1955. However, the concept of misconduct in its

 constitutional protections and conduct which led to conviction on a criminal

 charge was introduced for the first time after more than three decades by sub

 rule (cc) to r.27 and inserted in r.27 of the CRPF, Rules by S.O 3117 dated

 July 15, 1971 through rule making power avoiding amendment process

 through Parliament. To appreciate its newfound setting in r.27 it would be

 profitable to reproduce the text of r.27 (cc) as it stands:- 30. In my humble view the CRPF Act is a special law and a complete

 code in itself governing the relationship between the parties, where in the

 rules lies enacted substantive law in its procedural part in r.27 (cc) echoing

 the theme of Article 311 of the Constitution which is rare to find. It is also

 not known or understood as to how the disciplinary authority views the

 word 'may' in s.12 and why the Commandant would not suffer limitations

 prescribed by r.27 and whether he could completely sidetrack, by pass or

 circumvent the provision. The rule is part of the Act and is supplemental in

 nature. It appears to fill a gap left in s.12 . Rule 27 by itself creates a

 substantive procedural right to due process incorporating a valuable

 safeguard against arbitrary action. Criminal conviction and disciplinary

 action are severable and are not ipso facto mother and child that cannot be

 separated in their relationship except by event of death. Having conducted

 the trial and concluded it and recorded sentence of imprisonment till the

 rising of the Court, fairness-in-action then demanded that the petitioner

 should have been heard before dismissal on his rights protected by r. 27.

 While passing the dismissal order on his administrative side, the 6th

 respondent was acting as a disciplinary authority and not as Chief Judicial PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -32- Magistrate. He would, therefore, suffer restrictions on his powers as are

 imposed by law or available to him to exercise in a reasonable manner. He

 could act only within the limitations of the statutory framework of which he

 was a creature, both as court and administrator. 31. The learned counsel for the respondents Union of India, on the

 other hand submits, that s. 12 itself authorizes and justifies dismissal from

 service since sentence till rising of the Court is substantive criminal

 sentence and it matters little if a person has not suffered actual physical

 imprisonment in a 'prescribed prison' under s. 12 (2) of the Act. For this,

 insofar as sentence of simple imprisonment till the rising of the Court is

 concerned he relies on a decision of the learned Single Judge of the Delhi

 High Court in Writ Petition Civil No.3357A of 2000, Leela Ram v. Union

 of India and others , to submit that this is part of jurisprudentially

 recognized minimal power of sentencing which is within the jurisdiction of

 the Commandant acting as the Chief Judicial Magistrate. This was also a

 case involving imprisonment till the rising of the Court inflicted upon a

 paramilitary Force personnel. He submits that there can be no doubt that a

 person convicted and sentenced to undergo only a simple imprisonment till

 the rising of the Court would come within the ambit and purview of the

 word 'imprisonment' found in s.12 and the Commandant is empowered to

 pass such order. S. 12 is structured somewhat akin to Article 311 (2) (a) which provides that any person holding a civil post who is convicted and

 sentenced by a criminal court can be dismissed, removed or reduced in rank

 on the ground of conduct which led to the conviction on a criminal charge. PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -33- 32. That it may be significant here to quote the valuable insights of

 Mr R.S. Cheema, learned Senior counsel, as contained in the written

 submissions of the amicus presented before this Court in January 2015 and

 emphasized in his oral address to the Court: 33. [1] Submissions of learned senior counsel -Mr Cheema.

 I. Whether the question of the conviction/ punishment of the
 petitioner resulting from the trial can be raised and examined in the
 present writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India? (i) Mr Cheema contends that in the peculiar facts and circumstances

 of this case, it needs to be appreciated that the order of conviction as also

 the order of dismissal impugned in the present petition were passed by the

 same authority, though in different capacities, on the same date. The order

 of conviction which became the sole basis for the order of dismissal from

 service passed without a formal departmental enquiry. The order of sentence

 passed, following the order of conviction on the same day, was for

 imprisonment till the rising of the court. In other words, upon the sentence

 being pronounced, the petitioner had already undergone the punishment for

 the purported offence, irreversibly. (ii) It is beyond cavil that the order of dismissal is justiciable and is

 under challenge in appropriate proceedings before the appropriate Writ

 Court. Any scrutiny of the order of dismissal shall require examination of

 the order of conviction on which the former is based. Therefore, in exercise

 of its jurisdiction under Article 226 this Court shall be required to examine

 the validity of the order of dismissal and the basis thereof. It shall not be

 just and fair to permit the Union of India to raise a hyper technical objection PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -34- regarding the order of conviction and sentence not having been challenged

 separately. It is submitted that since the order of sentence had already run

 itself out simultaneously with the pronouncement of the order of conviction

 and dismissal, the petitioner may have not felt the necessity to challenge the

 same under the impression that having suffered the sentence, nothing could

 be undone subsequently faced with a fiat accompli. To that extent, the

 limited period of notional punishment of imprisonment cannot be brought

 back. However, while challenging the order of dismissal from service, it is

 necessary and open to the petitioner to question the basis of his dismissal

 which is essentially an order of conviction. Hence, in the totality of the

 present facts and circumstances, it is well within the scope of the present

 petition to raise the question of conviction for determination as the

 dismissal from service is solely based on the premise. Accordingly, it would

 be apt for this Court to examine the validity of the trial, the judgment of

 conviction, as also the order of sentence closely. In exercise of such a

 process of law, the validity and legality of the order of conviction can be

 gone into by this Court in its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of

 the Constitution to act ex debito justatiae. Hence, the question of conviction

 can be raised and examined in the present petition for the first time while

 the order of dismissal from service is under examination and scrutiny before

 this Court. Resort in writ proceedings can be had to principles of justice,

 equity and good conscience. 34. [II]. The view taken by the Commandant that the alleged

 misconduct falls within the purview of s. 10(1) (n) of The Central PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -35- Reserve Police Force Act, 1949 , is apparently incorrect. The reasons for

 the same are stated as under:- 2(iii) It is a well settled principle of interpretation of statutes that the

 words in a statute must be given their plain meaning unless the same either PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -36- lead to a perverse inference or an absurd result or militates against the other

 provisions in the Statute. The words "good order" and "discipline"

 essentially deal with the conduct of an employee of CRPF as a Member of

 the Force. It is for this reason that clauses (a) to (m) of s. 10 clearly and

 precisely deal with the fact situations touching upon the facets of the Code

 of Discipline or self regulation in relation to the duties of an accused as a

 Member of the Force. In other words, all these alleged acts of misconduct,

 though transgressions are conducted in the purported discharge of official

 duties. 2(iv) Even clause (p) of s.10 , which creates an exception, making the

 offences specified in clauses (e) to (l) of s. 9 punishable as "less heinous

 offences" u/s 10, essentially deals with the Code of Duty and the Rules of

 Conduct as a Member of the Disciplined Force and envisage consequences

 which reflect by the said conduct. It is noteworthy that even though these

 offences directly fall u/s 9 if the delinquent employee is on duty, the same

 fall u/s 10 if they are committed while the employee is not on active duty.

 Hence clauses (e) to (l) of s. 9 which are covered u/s 9 when committed on

 duty and u/s 10 while off duty are directly and closely related with duties as

 a Member of the Disciplined Force and the Code of Conduct applicable to a

 person as a Member of the Disciplined Force. 2(v) Then there is clause (n) of s. 10 with which we are directly

 concerned, which has to be interpreted in the context and within the

 parameters of the other clauses of s. 10 on the principle that a Jackdaw

 always sits by a jackdaw or the latin noscitur a sociis. As a necessary PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -37- corollary, the words "good order" would mean adherence to discipline or

 Code of Duty or Rules of Conduct as a Member of the Force. Similarly, the

 words "discipline" has to be similarly interpreted to mean discipline as

 Member of a Disciplined Force. Therefore, under clause (n), we should not

 adopt and accept an unduly wide interpretation which could include any

 unbecoming behaviour by a Member of the Force at any time while on or

 off duty; at any place whether within the precincts of an office or official

 residential area; or with any person, private or official. If we choose to

 adopt such interpretation, we are reading into the words 'good order' and

 'discipline' much more than the statute stipulates and the rules of

 interpretation provide. 35. It is a settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that the crime

 being a matter of strict liability, a provision should be capable of concise

 interpretation and ought to be read to look for a precise meaning and to

 further ensure that the alleged misconduct falls within the four corners of

 the mischief contemplated by such a precise interpretation. It is also settled

 by binding precedent that vagueness renders a penal provision void and,

 therefore, the Court must adopt a course so as to read the provision

 eliminating the element of vagueness. 36. For illustrative purposes, it would be interesting to enquire as to

 whether a brawl between a constable and another citizen when he is visiting

 his village on leave could be covered by s. 10 clause (n). Similarly, a

 situation may arise where a constable living in a colony has an altercation

 with his neighbour. It appears to be reasonable to argue that such instances PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -38- of misconduct or misbehaviour as a citizen shall not be covered by s. 10 ,

 clause (n). In the facts of the present case, an argument may be raised by the

 other side to the effect arising out of s. 10 (n) , notwithstanding the nature of

 the misconduct. The petitioner had switched off his duties and was

 allegedly away from duty for a short while. It is essential to appreciate that

 all such cases of dereliction from duty are covered in precise terms in

 various clauses of s. 9 and 10 . In fact, the situations contemplated there are

 much more serious in nature. Had it been the legislative intention to cover

 the slightest dereliction from duty in either s. 9 or 10, the residuary clause

 would have explicitly referred to other derelictions or deviations from duty.

 It, therefore, again appears that in its natural meaning and following the

 principles of legal interpretation, the alleged misconduct would not be

 covered under the residuary clause incorporated in clause (n) of s. 10 of the

 Act. 37. It is then urged by Mr Cheema that the authority in the present

 case has interpreted the provision too widely, rather loosely, to include good

 behaviour and conduct as a citizen beyond any specific facet of an Offence

 under the CRPF Act . In other words, the authority has given it an ethical

 complexion in making it so wide so as to transcend beyond the permissible

 boundaries of the provisions of s. 10 (n) . Thus, the applicability of s. 10 (n) is wholly unwarranted and uncalled for in the present case. 38. In support of the above contentions advanced, reliance is placed

 by Mr Cheema on the following decisions, and for purposes of ready

 reference, a relevant extract of the judgments are extracted and reproduced. PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -39- 39. In re: Richard Grayned vs City of Rockford, 1972 SCC online

 US SC 157 : 408 US 104 (1972) the Supreme Court of the United States of

 America in para. 11 succinctly laid dicta which can be profitably applied to

 the present case on the expansive sweep of s. 10 (n) with no controlling

 guidance on the universe it may encompass on good order and discipline.

 The relevant passage in the judgment reads: 40. The illuminating passage from the above judgment has been

 touched up by the Supreme Court in Kartar Singh vs State of Punjab ,

 (1994) 3 SCC 569 and applied to local conditions and is found in para. 130, PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -40- though without acknowledgement and has, therefore, become a part of our

 living law. The Supreme Court rephrased the American precedent delivered

 in 1972, observing that: 41. These judgments have been applied recently by the Supreme

 Court in the celebrated case in re. Shreya Singhal v. Union of India, WP

 (Crl) 167 of 2012 pronounced on March 24, 2015 striking down s. 66A of

 the Information Technology Act, 2000 as amended in 2008 as foul in its

 'overbreath' and unconstitutional as it infringes the right to free speech

 protected by Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution and is not saved by Article 19(2). The Court also noticed, among the many past global

 precedents, the following passage from a US precedent holding, and which

 can profitably be quoted in the present context, which reads as follows:- 42. Supplementary submissions on the legality of criminal charge,

 conviction and sentence. Still further and more importantly, Mr Cheema submits before this

 Court on the question of the legality of the charge, conviction and sentence

 imposed by the 6th respondent acting as Chief Judicial Magistrate under the CRPF Act that a reading of the charge sheet dated March 5, 1993 shows that

 as per the charge, Zuber Ahmed allegedly entered the house of Kala Singh,

 Security Aide of Shri P.S. Badal, then former Chief Minister of Punjab and

 caught hold of the mouth of Smt Gurdev Kaur with mala fide intention and

 ran away from the scene upon hearing the alarm from children of Smt

 Gurdev Kaur and, therefore, committed offence punishable u/s 10 (n) of the

 Central Reserve Police Force Act, 1949. (ii) A reading of the trial judgment shows that while dealing with the facts

 of the case in para. 2 of the judgment, the Commandant, exercising the

 powers of Chief Judicial Magistrate, stated that Constable Zuber Ahmed had

 asked Constable Himmat Singh to stand for some time in his place for his

 duty at the main gate and left his place of duty without any permission from

 the competent authority and remained absent for about 10 minutes. During

 this period of 10 minutes, he allegedly entered the house of Kala Singh and PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -42- squeezed the mouth of Smt Gurdev Kaur. It is noteworthy that the charge

 sheet was clearly defective and did not specifically mention that the

 delinquent Constable was being prosecuted for having remained absent

 from duty for a short period of 10 minutes after having deputed another

 official to stand in his place. (iii) A reading of the findings recorded in para. 7 of the judgement make an

 interesting reading. As per the findings recorded therein, it stood proved that

 the accused had left his place of duty for some time without due permission

 from the competent authority. This significantly was not a part of the charge

 sheet though such conduct would be implicit for what he was charged with,

 namely, entered into another house and misbehaved with a woman. Be that

 as it may, the charge was not framed for absence from duty presumably

 because some other competent person was put in place and the post was not

 abandoned. (iv) That while dealing with the charge as framed in the charge sheet, the

 Commandant, exercising the powers of Chief Judicial Magistrate, did not

 record a finding of guilt in conformity with the formal charge incorporated

 in the charge sheet. In other words, he did not record a finding that Zuber

 Ahmed had trespassed into the house of Kala Singh and he was the person

 who had misbehaved with his wife in the manner alleged. The finding is

 extracted hereunder:- 43. It is, therefore, patently clear that the charge as framed was not

 proved. The finding recorded was that a suspicion arose that the accused

 had entered the house of Smt Gurdev Kaur. Therefore, the charge

 purportedly framed u/s 10 (n) of the Act was not proved as per the

 judgment. B. There is another angle which is relevant to the present

 controversy. Section 11 of the Act deals with minor punishments. It spells

 out the acts of omission or commission which would attract these

 punishments. It is stated therein that where the Commandant or any other

 authority or person as may be prescribed, considers the delinquent official

 guilty of disobedience, neglect of duty, remissness in the discharge of duty

 or other misconduct, he was competent to award minor punishments. In the

 present case, what has been finally found on the conclusion of the trial is

 temporary absence of 10 minutes from duty having deputed somebody else

 to hold the charge, though without due authority. It is apparent from reading

 of s. 11 that such misconduct is specifically punishable u/s 11 and is not

 covered either under sub-clause (n) of s. 10 as earlier submitted or under

 sub-clause (o) thereof. 44. Once this interpretation is accepted, the conviction and the

 sentence awarded are without jurisdiction as s. 11 of the Act neither

 contemplates a trial nor award of any sentence of imprisonment." 45. The above thoughtful and considered submissions of the learned

 Senior counsel, have contributed significantly in assisting this Court to PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -44- come to a consensus, and I would tend to agree, that while examining the

 punishment of dismissal from service imposed on the petitioner, based on

 the conviction under the CRPF Act , this Court can go into the basis of such

 a punishment in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India

 which itself rests on a conviction and sentence which are wholly without

 jurisdiction. Be that as it may, to do complete justice under the powers

 vested in this Court under Article 226 , the legality and validity of the order

 of conviction and sentencing dated March 19, 1993 has to be necessarily

 examined as issues relating to the violation of Articles 14 , 16 and 21 of the

 Constitution directly arise for determination in these intermingled and cross-

 dependent orders of conviction/sentence and dismissal from service. Thus,

 this Court is not fettered by any limits or boundaries in testing the legality

 of the conviction/sentence order, which not only infringe the protection of Articles 14 & 16 of the Constitution, but also jeopardise the protection of

 life and liberty guaranteed to the petitioner under Article 21 by not

 following the due process of law and procedure established by law. In such

 a process of constitutional inquisition, there are no barriers on the powers

 of this Court exercised under Article 226 of the Constitution where rules of

 prudence preside. In a criminal court a charge has to be proved beyond any

 reasonable doubt. This means, a charge which is specifically laid, worded

 and framed for trial. We are not dealing with probabilities in this case since

 the subject matter is not a departmental enquiry. Suspicion must be

 reasonable with all links in the chain pointing to the guilt of a person in the

 dock. Mere suspicion is of no consequence and has no place in a criminal PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -45- court. 46. I am reminded of the indelible mark left on criminal jurisprudence

 by the famous passage in the argument of Sir Geoffrey Lawrence, then

 King's Counsel, remembered in legal memory as a fine judge appointed on

 the King's Bench Division, to be later elevated as Lord Justice of Appeal in

 1944 and who later was destined to Preside over the Tribunal set up to try

 war crimes at the Nuremberg Trials in 1946-1947 and who remarkably was

 a relative stranger to the criminal court but was engaged as defence counsel

 in his first murder trial to defend Dr John Bodkin Adams, a notorious serial

 killer of his age and accused of murder of a patient in "one of the greatest

 murder trials of all times" in his concluding address to the jury explained

 with startling simplicity and clarity how reasonable doubt operates in a

 criminal case: I should imagine this profound statement to be the quintessence of

 much that composes the criminal law. 47. In Union of India vs.Tulsiram Patel; AIR 1985 SC 1416 the

 Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in partly overruling Challappan

 case held that when the provisions of Article 311 (2) (b) are invoked, there

 is no place for opportunity of hearing to a delinquent since the punishing

 authority is only to examine the conduct which led to the conviction.

 However, the Court held that if penalty imposed by the impugned order is

 arbitrary or grossly excessive or out of proportion to the offence committed

 or unwarranted by the facts and circumstances of the case or the

 requirement of that particular government service, the Court will strike

 down the impugned order. Therefore, the Court can examine the adequacy

 of the penalty imposed in the light of the conviction and sentence inflicted

 on the person and that if the penalty imposed is apparently unreasonable or

 uncalled for in a given case, having due regard to the nature of the criminal

 charge, the Tribunal or the Court may step in to render substantial justice.

 The Court may remit the matter to the competent authority for re-

 consideration or by itself substitute one of the penalties provided. In Tulsi

 Ram Patel it has been held as follows: 48. Following the above dictum of law, the impugned dismissal order

 passed without assigning any reasons for dispensing with the enquiry and

 that too on a non-existent ground, as also dismissing the petitioner on a

 ground which is not a conviction on a criminal charge, does not stand the

 test of law and deserves to be set aside. For being guilty of an alleged act

 which is prejudicial to good order or discipline, the petitioner could not

 have been dismissed from service without a formal enquiry under r. 27 (c)

 of the rules framed under the Act. 49. In the decision of the Delhi High Court in Leela Ram v. Union of

 India and others , supra relied upon by the respondent/UOI, the peculiar

 issue arising under r.27 alongside the power under s.12 was neither noticed

 nor dealt with. Counsel submits that not only Constable Himmat Singh but

 Sub Inspector M.G.Kujur have also been punished. Mr Kujur has been

 awarded severe censure. Himmat Singh was confined in quarter guard for

 28 days with forfeiture of pay and allowances with effect from April 27,

 1993. The order against Constable Himmat Singh was passed on April 27,

 1993 and the punishment order against M.J.Kujur on December 30, 1992.

 Lance Naik U.N.Gaikwar was reverted to the rank of Constable from Lance

 Naik for one year with severe censure. 50. Ms Puneeta Sethi appearing for the CRPF/UOI has then relied on

 a decision of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in WP

 No.10430 of 1992; Shiv Narayan Singh v. Commandant 32 Bn and

 others, in which, it was observed as under: - 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -49- 51. Counsel for the official respondents, points out to the affidavit

 filed by the respondent CRPF explaining the factual position as was called

 for by interim order dated September 12, 2013. In para. 14 five instances

 have been given where Constables, Naiks and Lance Naiks have been

 sentenced to imprisonment till the rising of the Court and were dismissed

 from service for justifiable reasons and those orders stand implemented and

 are final. 52. Counsel for the petitioner in rebuttal places reliance on a decision

 of the Uttarakhand High Court in Bhaskar Chandra v. Union of India , PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -50- 2012 Lab.I.C 4583, in which both s. 12 and r.27 (1) of the CRPF rules were

 considered and dealt with. The Court interpreted s. 12 as directory and not

 mandatory. In this case, the police constable was convicted and sentenced

 by the Commandant exercising the powers of the Chief Judicial Magistrate

 for picking up a quarrel after consuming liquor. The sentence had become

 final and irrevocable. The dismissal order based on sentence was set aside

 being contrary to the provisions of r. 27(1) of the CRPF Rules which

 provides that penalty of dismissal or removal from service can be imposed

 after formal departmental enquiry. 53. Rule 27 provides the procedure for award of punishment and is

 the code on disciplinary proceedings. A formal departmental enquiry is

 mandatory. After all the charge was not such a grave that could not await

 disciplinary proceedings or brook no delay. The Commandant as trial court

 also did not think the offence/misconduct serious enough to impose

 anything beyond simple imprisonment till the rising of the Court. 54. In Mohd Zakir v. Union of India and others ; 1996 (5) SLR 788,

 the Allahabad High Court while dealing with the provisions of the CRPF

 Act and rules in question held that no order of dismissal can be passed in a

 routine manner. A dismissal order can be passed only if the charges are

 serious in nature. It was held as under: - 55. In Surinder Singh v. Union of India ; 1999 (1) SCT 726, Jammu

 & Kashmir High Court while dealing with conviction under s. 10 of the

 CRPF Act, 1949 has held that where a dismissal order is based on the

 conviction, an opportunity is required to be given to the personnel

 concerned to show cause since he would be required to be given

 consideration and hearing on the issue of conduct which led to conviction.

 Failure to do so would render the order bad. The Court applied the principle

 evolved by the Supreme Court in Managing Director, ECIL, Hyderabad

 v. B. Karunakar , AIR 1994 SC 1074 to return the parties to where the error

 occurred and to call for a reply from the delinquent and to proceed further. 56. In re. P. Arvindan Ex Constable GD , CRPF v. Union of India ,

 [2005] RD-AH 1385 (23 May 2005) [Civil Misc. Writ Petition No 2997 of PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -52- 2002, Allahabad High Court] is also a case of conviction till the rising of

 the court and dismissal from service under s. 12 (1) of the Act. The

 Commandant found Arvindan guilty of misconduct in leaving the camp

 without permission; entering the office/residence of the Commandant;

 shouting and threatening him, which is a minor offence, punishable with

 imprisonment up to one year and fine for three month's salary under s. 10 (n) of the C.R.P.F. Act 1949. However taking into account his past seven

 years services, and taking a humanitarian view he was sentenced under s. 10 (n) of the Act, till the rising of the Court. Allowing the petition the learned

 single judge of the Allahabad High Court held:- Discrimination suffered by the petitioner. 57. In his address to the court Mr Malhotra, the learned amicus

 submits, as in writing, that even though a departmental enquiry was

 recommended to be conducted against the petitioner by the Commandant 18

 Bn. on November 13, 1992 it is a matter of record that no departmental

 enquiry was conducted against the petitioner. This is despite the fact

 Constable Himmat Singh, Lance Naik U.N. Gaikwar and Sub Inspector M.J.

 Kujur were proceeded against departmentally and accordingly punished

 commensurate to their offences as is confirmed at page 62 of paperbook and

 in the written statement dated March 28, 2000. Hence, no departmental

 enquiry was conducted against the petitioner and a "Judicial Trial" was

 conducted against him resulting in his conviction and consequent dismissal

 from service without conducting any separate enquiry. No reasons or

 justification was given for this arbitrary and discriminatory treatment meted

 out to the petitioner leading to the presumption that it was preconceived to

 dismiss the petitioner from service after convicting him. Hence, the

 protection of Articles 14 and 16 was not afforded to the petitioner and he

 was the only one singled out to face judicial trial without any departmental

 enquiry even though the other three personnel were not tried judicially and

 especially Constable Himmat Singh who exchanged duty which led to the

 alleged occurrence. 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -54- Bias meted out to the petitioner: 58. Mr M.S. Sethi, the Commandant 18 Bn CRPF by his order dated

 November 13, 1992 Annexure R-1 at page 78 had recommended that no

 "Judicial Trial" is recommended. However, Sh. Pushkar Singh i.e. the 6th

 respondent, as Commandant 84 Bn decided unilaterally to conduct a

 "Judicial Trial" and framed a charge sheet against the petitioner as Chief

 Judicial Magistrate on March 5, 1993. No reasons, assigned or recorded,

 find mention in pleadings on record as to why a departmental enquiry was

 not preferred in comparison to a "Judicial Trial", as was done in the case of

 the other three Force personnel. This clearly amounts to selective invidious

 bias and discrimination with mala fide intentions violating Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. The punishment of dismissal from service at

 the hands of the 6th respondent who dominated the proceedings to dispose of

 the matter with a preconceived mind to punish the petitioner with an

 unreasonable attitude clearly establishes bias. Mr Malhotra places reliance

 on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Ranjit Thakur Vs. Union of

 India & Ors. , (1987) 4 SCC 611 in support of this contention. In this case

 the court considered the legality of punishment imposed upon trial by court

 martial. The court held that judicial review was directed against the decision

 making process while the choice of quantum of punishment was within the

 jurisdiction and discretion of the court martial. The court held that sentence

 must suit the offence and the offender, and should not be so disproportionate

 to the offence so as to shock the conscience of the court and amount to

 conclusive evidence of bias or in outrageous defiance of logic then the PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -55- sentence would not be immune from correction. The court observed in para.

 25 of the report: Dismissal from service without enquiry is illegal and

 unwarranted: Hence, r.27(cc) of the CRPF Rules was wrongly invoked by the 6th

 respondent in passing the impugned order dated March 19, 1993 as the

 petitioner was neither charged, nor tried or convicted of any offence under

 the IPC , much less s. 354 , IPC. Therefore, the petitioner could not have

 been dismissed from service without compliance of r. 27(a) and r. 27(c)

 requiring holding of a departmental enquiry. 61. Submits that the order of dismissal from service has been passed

 by the 6th respondent in a routine manner without any application of mind.

 The action of dismissal being a severe major punishment, it has to be

 awarded only if there are very serious charges and the action of dismissal

 from service should be commensurate to the gravity of the charges. In the

 case of the petitioner, he was not tried or convicted of a more heinous

 offence under s. 9 of the CRPF Act. In fact, even under s. 10 stipulating less

 heinous offences, a residuary charge i.e. s. 10 (n) prescribing an act or PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -58- omission, which, though not specified in this Act, which is prejudicial to

 good order and discipline, was levelled against the petitioner. The 6th

 respondent did not level any serious allegations against the petitioner under

 s. 9 CRPF Act . Therefore, dismissing the petitioner from service, which is a

 major punishment for a less heinous offence without holding any

 departmental enquiry which is mandatory under rls. 27 (a) and (c), clearly

 shows non-application of mind and evidence of bias. See Ranjit Thakur

 and Mohd. Zakir cases supra. Therefore, the impugned order of dismissal

 from service of petitioner cannot be sustained in law. Disproportinate and excessive punishment imposed on

 petitioner: 62. That the punishment of dismissal from service is grossly

 disproportionate, excessive and is not commensurate with the alleged charge

 which does not establish any proved misconduct which is defined or

 identified under the CRPF Act . There is no charge proved which is remotely

 made out alleging use of criminal force with intent to outrage the modesty

 of a woman. Hence, an undefined act which is stated to be prejudicial to

 good order and discipline is highly subjective. The opinion of the 6th

 respondent in alleging this charge as prosecutor, judge and disciplinary

 authority is highly opinionated and biased. The powers given to one

 individual to judge the parameters for this offence as a residuary clause

 without any reasons being given or justification to support it, makes of

 award of punishment of dismissal highly inequitable and unjust. It was

 unfair to impose this punishment without even giving a hearing or holding a PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -59- departmental enquiry in the service matter. Therefore the punishment

 imposed shocks the conscience of any individual and in terms of the law

 laid down in Union of India v. Parma Nand , AIR 1989 SC 1185 and also

 reiterated in Commandant, 22 Battalion, CRPF Srinagar Vs. Surinder

 Kumar, (2011) 10 SCC 244, the punishment of dismissal from service on

 the petitioner is strikingly disproportionate and warrants interference by this

 Court as being perverse and irrational having regard to the nature of the

 charge of misconduct which was not a criminal charge, molestation attempt

 not having being established when the complainant resiled from her

 previous statement and failed to recognize Zuber Ahmed as the person

 charged. For judicial treatment of difference between 'strikingly

 disproportionate' punishment and 'merely disproportionate', see Union of

 India v. R.K.Sharma , AIR 2001 SC 3053. Hence, the dismissal from

 service of the petitioner cannot be sustained for this reason as well. Impermissible concurrent exercise of powers by respondent

 No 6: 63. That the simultaneous exercise of power in three different

 capacities by Sh. Pushkar Singh i.e. the 6th respondent in his separate

 official positions as Chief Judicial Magistrate and Commandant is

 unjustified, impermissible and legally untenable in accordance with the

 prevailing provisions of the Cr.P.C ., 1973 on account of the following

 reasons which are supplemented by the description in written submissions. 64. Even though there is no formal amendment incorporating the

 provisions of Cr.P.C ., 1973 in the CRPF Act, 1949 and the CRPF Rules, PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -60- 1955, the provisions of Cr.P.C ., 1973 may have to be read into the various

 provisions of the CRPF Act and Rules as a substitute to the Cr.P.C ., 1898,

 which stands repealed by s. 484 of the Cr.P.C., 1973. Hence, by necessary

 implication, the 1973 Code shall stand automatically substituted. 65. That in terms of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Suresh

 Kumar Koushal & Anr. Vs. NAZ Foundation & Ors. , 2014 (1) SCC 1, in

 respect of any pre-Constitutional law, the Court has laid down the following

 principles: 66. Following the aforesaid settled position of law, and keeping in

 view that Article 50 of the Constitution clearly prescribes that "the State

 shall take steps to separate the judiciary from the executive in the

 public services of the State" and bearing in mind that the CRPF Act, 1949 ,

 is a pre-Constitutional law, as also the detailed scheme in the Cr.P.C ., 1973,

 requiring that Judicial trials shall only be conducted by Judicial Magistrates

 duly appointed by the High Court concerned, any existing provisions in the CRPF Act designating powers of Judicial Magistrates on Commandants, as

 was permissible under the Cr.P.C ., 1898, may no longer be legally tenable

 under the Cr.P.C ., 1973. 67. That the authority and powers of Chief Judicial Magistrate

 exercised by the 6th respondent as a Commandant of CRPF by virtue of s. 16 CRPF Act in accordance with Ss. 30, 32,34, 36 and 37 of the Cr.P.C ., 1898,

 can no longer be exercised in view of the provisions of sections

 11 , 12 , 13 , 20 , 24 , 26 , 29 of Cr.P.C., 1973. Section 3 Cr.P.C., 1973 clearly

 defines that unless the context requires otherwise, any reference in any

 enactment passed before the commencement of this Court to a Magistrate,

 shall be construed as a reference to a Judicial Magistrate. It is further

 stated in s. 3 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 that, "where under any

 law, other than this Court, the functions exercisable by a Magistrate relate

 to appreciation of evidence, formulation of any decision which exposes any

 person to penalty or punishment pending investigation, enquiry or trial or PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -62- would have the effect of sending him for trial before any Court, they shall

 be, subject to the provisions of the 1973 code, be exercisable by a Judicial

 Magistrate". Hence, the exercise of powers of the Chief Judicial Magistrate

 by the 6th respondent is not permissible or legally tenable in view of the

 current provisions of the Cr.P.C ., 1973. 68. The petitioner was dismissed from service in the year 1993

 without holding an enquiry for a less heinous offence, on the basis of simple

 imprisonment till the rising of the Court, and his unwarranted period of

 suspension w.e.f October 22, 1992 to March 19, 1993 was treated as period

 not spent on duty, the fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 16 to the petitioner were severely curtailed. Provisions of Article 33 of the

 Constitution falling in Chapter III [ Articles 12 to 35] with special

 application to armed and para-military Forces etc. in their relation to

 precious and fundamental human rights secured by the remaining provisions

 of Part III of the suprema lex, I am inclined to think must admit minimal

 protections against arbitrary and unreasonable action with arbitrariness,

 unreasonableness, classification and discrimination as explained in the all

 time classic verdicts of the Supreme Court in its formative years in Charanjit Lal Chowdhury v. The Union of India and others , AIR 1951

 SC 41 and State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar and another , AIR

 1952 SC 75 securing such far reaching rights for citizens in young India that

 secured a democratic nation. If those cases did not deal with Article 33 is of

 no moment. It does not mean that rights of countrymen declared in those

 decisions should not be revisited in understanding the scope and dimensions PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -63- of human rights available to men in fatigues, faceless but protecting our

 country and people. Article 33 is thus revisited and is reproduced for ready

 reference:- Needless to say that Parliament has not yet modified the pre Constitution CRPF Act, 1949 by an amendment of the statutory law on the

 subject which still refers to antiquated Criminal Procedure Code , 1898

 which I would necessarily have to read down to mean the present law, 1973

 to save the Act from being declared ultra vires the established law.

 Parliament not having intervened, the extent of rights in Part III stand

 curtailed. The argument is slim but meritorious which should be tilted

 towards the ex member of the Force in upholding his inalienable rights

 under the Constitution when the Supreme Court declares in a coram of a 9 PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -64- Judge Bench in M. Nagaraj v. Union of India & Ors. , (2006) 8 SCC 212

 holds that:- "A Constitutional provision must be construed not in a narrow

 and constricted sense but in a wide and liberal manner so as to anticipate

 and take account of changing conditions and purposes so that constitutional

 provision does not get fossilized but remains flexible enough to meet the

 newly emerging problems and challenges. This principle of interpretation is

 particularly apposite to the interpretation of fundamental rights. It is a

 fallacy to regard fundamental rights as a gift from the State to its citizens."

 The Constitution gives no gifts to anyone in its generosity; it gives no gifts

 for the asking, with a beggars bowl in the hands of a citizen who happens to

 be a person dressed in fatigues 'charged with the maintenance of public

 order' in Article 33 read with Chapter 10 of the Cr.P.C ., 1973 which

 provides measures for "Maintenance of Public Order and Tranquillity"; it

 gives no solace to a man wronged, in fatigues or in civil clothes, what it

 gives is a very precious right to knock at the open doors of the

 constitutional court asking for redressal redemption and determination of

 relief for a percieved constitutional or statutory tort committed upon him. At

 any rate, Article 33 is an enabling provision while it uses the word 'may' in

 its text in relation to restrictions and abrogation of rights for proper

 discharge of duties and the maintenance of discipline among the

 membership. Archaic laws must need be refurbished with modern ideas

 keeping pace with changing times and changing value systems evolving

 constantly, often imperceptibly. But most certainly men in muftis and in

 fatigues should not be viewed with the same spectacles. There is a PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -65- qualitative difference between the two classes but it should not be too wide

 off the mark inhibiting Articles 14 , 16 and 21 of the Constitution. Marginal

 protections of law and equity account for foolscap liberty of the individual

 against excessive and unreasonable invasion. That is the cherished goal of

 the Constitution and the laws established. 69. To turn back again to the mainstream debate, the petitioner surely

 was unjustly deprived from continuing in service contrary to the due process

 of law and was deprived of his right to life and right to a livelihood.

 Furthermore, the confinement of the petitioner during his period of

 suspension by the respondents under purported exercise of powers under the Cr.P.C , 1898 clearly amounted to violation of guarantees of personal liberty

 of the petitioner by the Constitution for inadequate and insufficient reasons

 and that too on a mere suspicion of commission of crime as recorded in the

 judgment of conviction and sentence inflicted till the rising of the court

 without due thought paid. 70. The petitioner was unduly penalised by process unknown to law

 and victimized at the hands of the 6th respondent, who despite impleadment

 and notice issued to him long ago, has by court office reportedly chosen to

 remain unrepresented an without appearance on due notice of pending

 proceedings. In such peculiar facts and circumstances, the petitioner ought

 to be compensated for wrongs done to him in violation of the protection of Articles 14 , 16 & 21 of the Constitution of India. 71. I am inclined to accept the view of the learned Senior counsel as

 canvassed on the criminal law issues involved in this service matter that the PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -66- entire process of the alleged criminal trial is vitiated, illegal and a gross

 abuse of the process of law and that the petitioner was not strictly held

 guilty on a 'criminal charge'. 72. The writ court is not without jurisdiction in an appropriate case to

 read and set aside the order/judgment of criminal conviction and sentencing

 by a Commandant in CRPF exercising powers of a Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, which brings untold grief, ruin and grave harm upon a citizen,

 such as the twin orders dated March 19, 1993 passed in this case appear to

 be with any worthy legs to stand on and if they defy logic, common sense

 and standards of reasonableness and proportionality then interference would

 be called for and justified. It follows that where the twin acts of conviction

 and dismissal are inextricably bound and are found on judicial review

 wholly unsustainable in law and they form the basis of the impugned

 dismissal order then the writ court can examine threadbare the judgment of

 the criminal/trial court empowered in the special Act in replacement of the

 ordinary criminal courts exercising competent jurisdiction. In cases where

 the sentence imposed is till the rising of the court the duty of the writ court

 would be even greater to prevent injustice to see if such a sentence was used

 for oblique purpose of packing off home a member of the force with the line

 of least resistance on a hapless victim of arbitrary and colourable exercise of

 power to dismiss. 73. That from a larger perspective, the issue of separation of powers

 of the executive and the judiciary envisaged under the new deal of criminal

 procedure code amended extensively separating two limbs of the troika and PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -67- the existing provisions of the Constitution of India and upon amendments

 made by the recommendation of the Law Commission of India there is

 something radically repulsive and abhorrent in the archaic system of

 dispensation of justice under a pre constitutional law of CRPF enforcing to

 this day the repealed Criminal Procedure Code , 1898 which has to be read

 down to mean the Code of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. In this regard,

 the amicus had made the following written submissions which are set down

 as hereunder: 74. The CRPF Act published in the Gazette of India (Extraordinary)

 on December 30, 1949 after it received the assent of the Governor General

 on December 28, 1949. It is an Act to provide for the constitution and

 regulation of an Armed Central Reserve Police Force to replace the old

 Crown Representative's Police Force Law, 1939 which ceased to have effect

 on India's independence on August 15, 1947. The Central Reserve Police

 Force is a reserved Force to aid in the maintenance of law and order in times

 of emergency as was the function of the Crown Representative's Police

 Force. 75. The CRPF Act runs into 19 sections and contains 111 rules in the

 CRPF Rules framed by the Central Government in exercise of powers

 conferred by s. 18 of the CRPF Act. A brief summary of the relevant

 provisions is set down as hereunder: 27 (cc) is compared and contrasted with Article 311 (2) of the Constitution,

 then, r. 27 (cc) is differently worded. Rule 27 (cc) dispenses with the

 applicability and requirement of a Departmental enquiry in three

 contingencies and states that, "the authority competent to impose the

 penalty may consider the circumstances of the case and make such orders

 thereon as it deems fit." In so far Article 311 (2) is concerned, it provides

 that if a person is dismissed, removed or reduced in rank, "this clause shall

 not apply," inter alia, "where a person is dismissed or removed or reduced

 in rank on the ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on a

 criminal charge." (v) Hence, the distinguishing feature in the CRPF Act is the use of the

 word 'may' in r. 27 (cc) which gives a discretion to the punishing authority,

 whereas Article 311 (2) prescribes a mandatory 'shall' leaving no discretion

 to the punishing authority as explained by the Supreme Court in past

 precedents. Hence, invoking of r. 27 (cc) prescribing the use of word, "may"

 in the light of interpretation of Articles 14 , 16 and 21 of the Constitution, PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -70- would require reasons to be recorded in exercising any discretion dispensing

 with an enquiry if any of the three contingencies of r. 27 (cc) when are

 invoked for dismissing the services of a Member of the Force. (vi) Rule 36 of the CRPF Rules prescribes that, "all trials in relation

 to any one of the offences specified in s. 9 or 10 shall be held in accordance

 with the procedure laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure Code,

 1898." Though, there seems to be no formal amendment replacing it with

 the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, a note in the Bare Act indicates "see

 now the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973" which is merely editorial and

 not the voice of Parliament. (vii) Rule 36 (B) of the CRPF Rules enjoins that for the purposes of

 Chapter VI-A dealing with place of trial and adjustment of jurisdiction of

 ordinary Courts, "Magistrate" means a Magistrate other than the

 Commandant or an Assistant Commandant on whom the powers of a

 Magistrate have been conferred under sub s. 2 of s. 16. 76. From a collective reading of the above provisions, it can be

 understood that a Commandant under s. 16 of the CRPF Act, whilst acting

 as a Magistrate and conferred with the powers under the Code of Criminal

 Procedure Code, 1898 ("see now the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973")

 can sentence a person to more or less heinous offences under Ss. 9 and 10

 of the Act. Thereafter, under Ss. 11 and 12, further punishments including

 dismissal from service of the Force can be imposed by the Commandant as

 the Disciplinary Authority for which under r. 27 (cc), discretion can be

 exercised to make such orders as deemed fit. Therefore, if a member of the PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -71- Force is convicted on a criminal charge, he can be removed from service

 without any notice, enquiry or hearing under r. 27 (cc) in the discretion of

 the Commandant as the Disciplinary Authority. However, the provisions in

 s. 12 using the words that "every person sentenced under this Act to

 imprisonment may be dismissed" are different from the words "conviction

 on a criminal charge" used in s. 12 of the Act. Thus, the different wording,

 may lead to a conclusion that dismissal from service would require a formal

 departmental enquiry prescribed under r. 27 in respect of a person

 sentenced under this Act to imprisonment. The protection of Articles 14 and 16 available to all citizens necessitates the requirements of equality of

 treatment even to members of a disciplined Force as the CRPF. 77. Thus it may be seen that departmental enquiries in the CRPF are

 conducted under s. 11 (1) of the CRPF Act read with r. 27 (c) of the CRPF

 Rules since s. 11 is subject to rules made under the Act. In contrast, judicial

 trials are also held under Ss. 9 and 10 of the CRPF Act read with r. 36 and r.

 36 E to 36 J of the CRPF Rules. Section 11 deals with minor punishments

 and contains overlapping of jurisdictions and requires to be read in its

 principles since it establishes a connection with rules: The Commandant 6th respondent opted out of s. 11 without

 applying mind or acting under it when he could have for good measure. Be

 that as it may, judicial trials are conducted under Ss. 9 and 10 by

 Commandants who are conferred the powers of Judicial Magistrates under

 s. 16 of the CRPF Act . Even though there is no formal amendment

 incorporating the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, they

 may have to be read into various provisions of the CRPF Act and Rules as a

 substitute to the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 which stands repealed

 under s. 484 of the Cr.P.C. Hence, by necessary implication, the 1973 Code

 shall stand substituted. I am inclined to think that the provision in s.16 in

 the CRPF Act has outlived its shelf life. I would not like to hold that the

 trial court should also be the disciplinary authority and to put the

 imprimatur of the Court on such fusion of powers. This would be an

 antithesis of the rule of law and the benign principle of separation of powers

 with a right upon a third agency recognized by parliament to override and

 veto. If not, it would be putting much too much paid on unfettered powers

 vested in one person to enthrall his captive audience to suffer his personal

 whims without a system of checks and balances in place. We should not let

 anyone get too powerful and centralized if the laws are to be worked

 properly without causing undue injury on a fellow human being. The PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -74- nightmare that man has always faced from times immemorial without a

 permanent and abiding solution is man's inhumanity to man. If nature is

 written in tooth and claw, officialdom is equally brutal. The horribly

 dominating spirit of officialdom in a police State subjugates the weaker

 mortal of whose neck they are given the leash to pull or release as they

 wish. I think the 6th respondent was resplendent in such extreme power

 which neither his industry, caliber, education, judicial experience or merit

 justified holding the high office of a Chief Judicial Magistrate, almost

 visibly power drunk but kneeling before and kowtowing to the powers that

 be, given the formidable location of the alleged occurrence and the

 overwhelming position of the complainant who ultimately made no

 complaint whatsoever to put the criminal law into motion or to be taken

 criminal cognizance of, the entire episode rather murky. Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 /1973: Based on the above proposal, the Law Commission made a broad

 classification of the functions of Judicial and Executive Magistrates in the

 41st Report. 82. That in Chapter II dealing with the Constitution of criminal courts

 and offices, the Law Commission in its 41st Report has specifically

 suggested that Judicial Magistrates shall be appointed by the High Court at

 such places as the State Government may in consultation with the High

 Courts duly notified in the official Gazette. Further, Special Judicial PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -77- Magistrates may be appointed by the High Court by conferring upon any

 person a Judicial post if he possesses such qualifications as may be

 prescribed by the High Court. Likewise, the Law Commission also

 suggested appointment of Executive Magistrates by the State Government to

 exercise Executive functions in their jurisdiction. 83. That the above provisions of constitution of Criminal Courts and

 offices find their statutory place in Chapter II of the Cr.P.C from Ss. 6 to 25.

 Judicial Magistrates exercising judicial functions are appointed by the High

 Court and Special Judicial Magistrates can be appointed for a term not

 exceeding one year at a time, under s. 13 if a person possesses such

 qualification or experience in relation to legal affairs as the High Court may

 by rules specify. Likewise, public prosecutors who have been practicing as

 an Advocate for not less than 7 years can be appointed by the Central

 Government or the State Government for every High Court. Executive

 Magistrates can be appointed by the State Government under s. 20 of the

 Cr.P.C. Thus, there is a clear separation of powers as contemplated by Article 50 of the Constitution and Judicial powers are not exercised by

 Executive Magistrates. The amicus had also placed on record on January 28,

 2015 the relevant extract of the provisions of the Cr.P.C ., 1898 as also the

 relevant extract of the 41st report of the Law Commission of India,

 September 1969 where upon the changes were made in the Cr.P.C ., 1898

 given rise to the current Cr.P.C ., 1973. 84. Bearing in mind that the CRPF is the main counter insurgency

 Force in India serving at all sensitive locations and borders in India, and is PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -78- also the largest Central Armed Police Force comprising about 230 battalions

 and reported over 3 lac personnel, it is suggested that an appropriate

 reference be made to the Law Commission of India for suggesting suitable

 amendments to the CRPF Act, 1949 and the CRPF Rules, 1955 so that these

 provisions can be brought at par with the provisions of the Cr.P.C 1973 and

 the constitutional mandate under Article 50 of the Constitution stipulating a

 legal mandate to separate the Judiciary from the Executive in the public

 services of the State. Hence, CRPF Personnel ought to be administered by a

 law which is in agreement with the provisions of the Constitution without

 infringing Cr.PC , 1973. 85. It may be useful to quote that the Army Act, 1950 read with the

 Army Rules, 1954, the Air Force Act, 1950 and the Navy Act, 1957 which

 are post Constitutional laws conforming to existing laws do prescribe a

 proper procedure in accordance with law to regulate disciplinary and penal

 punishments for offences committed in service through a process of Court

 Martial and other legal procedural methods devised and employed in

 accordance with law and rules of natural justice. 86. Likewise, the Border Security Force Act, 1968 read with the BSF

 Rules, 1969, provides a Security Force Court for dealing with offences for

 members of BSF which conform to the Constitution and do not infringe

 other existing statutory laws. 87. Since, CRPF is the largest armed Central Reserve Police Force, it

 can no longer be continued to be administered by an archaic pre-

 Constitutional law whose provisions are not in accordance with the PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -79- protections guaranteed under the Constitution of India as also the principle

 of separation of judicial powers under the Cr.P.C ., 1973. It may no longer be

 legally tenable to conduct judicial trials by the CRPF under the Cr.P.C ,

 1898." 88. Accordingly, a copy of this judgment is remitted to the Law

 Commission of India and the Ministry of Law and Justice, New Delhi to

 contemplate upon devising a mechanism for administration of discipline and

 imposition of penalties upon CRPF personnel which are the touch stone and

 main stream of a disciplined Force and by separation of judicial and

 executive power and to consider points in para. 84 above. The Law

 Commission may also deliberate the issue where the minimum sentence is

 not prescribed by law then what should be the bare minimum sentence. In

 other words, how would "minimum" sentence be quantified. This phrase

 whether requires to be qualified? Whether judicial discretion requires to be

 rationed and rationalized when awarding sentence of "till the rising of the

 Court" on a criminal charge. This is for the Commission and the Parliament

 to debate. 89. That when s. 12 of the Act is directory in nature and not

 mandatory then dismissal from service should normally follow formal

 departmental enquiry in terms of the procedure prescribed under r. 27(1).

 That due process established by law was departed from and straight away,

 on the same day three major events with lifelong consequences were

 synchronized and inflicted by the Commandant; the conviction, the sentence

 and the dismissal. Even assuming arguendo that a regular enquiry was not PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -80- necessary under r. 27, even then, the petitioner should have been served

 with a show cause notice to hear him out if he had anything to say against

 dismissal or proposed dismissal in view of discretion under s. 12 and in

 absence of the mantra of the words "conduct which led to the conviction" 90. Section 12 (1) of the Act enables the punishing authority to

 choose one of the minor punishments specified in s. 11 for one or more of

 the heinous offences specified in s. 9 or for less heinous offences

 enumerated in s. 10 . I find no cogent or good enough reason not to read

 Serial No.1 of the Table under r. 27 as part of the substantive mandatory

 procedure required to be followed, though falling in rules with no power

 drawn from the provisions of the Act directly or impliedly. A reading of r. 27

 appears not to leave any discretion in the Commandant when not only the

 proposed choice of punishment is dismissal or removal from the Force, but

 for any reason whatsoever, for any of the misconducts specified in Ss. 9 and

 10 of the Act except to visit after a regular departmental enquiry is held and

 in no other manner even after sentencing for an offence under s 10 (i) (c) of

 the Act. It is well settled that if a thing is required to be done in a particular

 manner, it should be done in that manner or not at all. Otherwise, the action

 would be open to criticism as one being arbitrary and unreasonable. I would

 repeat the famous words of Justice Felix Frankfurter of the United States

 Supreme Court in McNabb v. United States, 318 U.S 332 that the ''history

 of liberty has largely been the history of the observance of procedural

 safeguards''. Rule 27 is an absolute procedural safeguard while S. 12 (1) is

 enabling and directory in nature, it enables but does not command the

 Commandant to do what he wishes and as he likes. When the disciplinary PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -82- authority/Commandant forms opinion under s. 12 (1) as to what has to be

 done after awarding sentence, then the word 'may' used in s. 12 comes into

 play and would goad and guide him to resort to fair procedure of domestic

 enquiry recognized by r. 27 of the CRPF Rules, 1955 to arrive at the truth or

 the most probable truth, when law does not and is not intended to deal with

 absolutes while reconstructing today of events in the past based on the

 limitations of admissible evidence, principles of hearsay etc. and lack of

 direct facts proved in a trial. 91. There appears to be yet another fundamental reason which

 persuades me to hold that due procedure was not followed in ordering

 dismissal without enquiry. That reason lies in sub section (2) of s.12 of the

 Act. The sub s. lays down that: "Every such person shall, if he is so

 dismissed, be imprisoned in the prescribed prison,...". A priori

 imprisonment follows dismissal. It is not the other way round. Dismissal is

 an inherent right of the employer reflected in the General Clauses Act, 1897 .

 Provisions of s. 12 do not speak of 'conviction' but speak of 'sentencing' a

 'person' 'to imprisonment'. It is axiomatic in criminal law that sentence

 follows conviction. Thus, conviction on a criminal charge has to be read

 into s. 12 of the CRPF Act, 1949 even if the word is not found in the

 statutory enactment and only 'person sentenced'. But an order of dismissal

 based on sentence passed on a proven criminal charge is to be visited with

 imprisonment in view of the word 'shall' used in s. 12 (2) . This part is

 apparently mandatory leaving no elbow room or discretion in the trial judge,

 the Commandant, CRPF to act to the contrary. However, if dismissal is not PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -83- selected as penalty following sentence then the "Court or the Commandant" 92. Flowing from the statutory framework and on a cumulative

 reading of Ss. 12(1) and 12(2) of the CRPF Act, 1949 and rls. 27 (a) and 36 (a) and (b) of the CRPF Rules, 1955 it follows, and this court is inclined to

 think that actual physical imprisonment in a prescribed prison is a condition

 precedent to dismissal from service. The prescribed prison is the nearest jail

 but not the Court room where the petitioner was sentenced to simple

 imprisonment till the rising of the Court. This appears to me to be the legal

 position. I may say and not without some trepidation that sentencing left in

 the hands of a layperson who is not trained in the criminal law as a Judge in

 ordinary courts may lead to manifestly disastrous and dangerous results in

 the quest of truth and justice. The platidunious expression of justice being

 delivered from the 'temple of justice' should not be mixed up with or

 converted into sentencing a person arraigned in the dock to be incarcerated

 to jail in a mock judicial trial. If the offender belongs to the paramilitary

 force it does not mean that the scales of justice will tilt against him anyhow.

 The true value of procedural safeguards in criminal law cannot be

 undermined in matters involving the constabulary in the paramilitary forces.

 They may be special citizens though serving under reasonable curtailments

 of rights enjoyed by civil society but their fundamental rights can be seen

 restricted or abrogated by Parliament under Article 33 of the Constitution PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -85- being charged with maintenance of public order but still they deserve to be

 dealt with under the overarching constitutional scheme of fundamental

 freedoms and guarantees of cherished rights in Part III of the Constitution,

 if not by all of them, but at least some of those protected by Articles 14 , 16 ,

 20 (3) and 21 of the Constitution which permeate through the interstices of

 the criminal justice dispensation system. One may see a facet of Article 14 and 16 in relation to armed forces subjected to court interference in the

 recent decision of the Supreme Court in Major General H.M.Singh v.

 Union of India & Anr. ; (2014) 3 SCC 670. The CRPF Act and its

 provisions, as I see them, neither restrict nor take away such minimal

 protections from a constable, namely, of a fair and independent trial, fair

 disciplinary action, fair conviction, fair sentence and fair application of the

 rule of law. They have a right not to be tried and convicted by a Kangaroo

 court, where the rudimentary principles of criminal jurisprudence and its

 fair procedure established by law are thrown to the winds and constables in

 CRPF made scapegoats on the altar of good order and discipline without

 just and sufficient cause or probative evidence to prove a criminal charge

 laid by the Commandant criminal court palming them off as pariahs by a

 whimsical order of sentence of "till the rising of the court"; which to put

 shortly was thought to be quod erat demonstrandum. It is something akin to

 what appears to have happened in this case when one sees the original

 record of the trial proceedings which look more like a lopsided

 departmental enquiry than a full-fledged and fair criminal trial, a difference

 which is clearly noticeable from the Commandant/CJM's file. It is less of PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -86- justice and more of self-serving a predestined and predetermined end, the

 trial motions gone through mechanically without help of defence counsel to

 the undertrial and the checks and balances of fair procedure. I would agree

 with Mr Sharma's lament that a fair deal was not given to Zuber Ahmed at

 the trial and on the other hand was dealt with rather roughly. Therefore, the

 impugned dismissal order and the appellate order confirming that order

 deserve to be set aside being non est and ab initio voidable being based on

 no evidence with the complainant not supporting the case of the

 prosecution. The sentence imposed on an offender/delinquent should after

 all reflect the true crime/misconduct they are alleged to have committed

 duly proven beyond a shadow of reasonable doubt or even on a

 preponderance of probabilities, as the case may be, from criminal trial to

 disciplinary proceedings and the result in either case has to be proportionate

 to the seriousness of the alleged offence. Always in passing sentence, the

 Court has not only to bear in mind the nature and the limit of the

 punishment prescribed for the offence of which the accused is found guilty,

 but also the nature and the limit of the punishment which it is empowered to

 impose. A sentence till the rising of the court should normally only be for

 trivial offences. If offence is not considered trivial or is henious then there

 must be reason recorded in writing as to why the least punishment was

 chosen from the range available in law of where there may be minimum

 prescribed by statute. If the offence is trivial in nature and sentencing would

 justify the severest penalty of dismissal from service then the minimal PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -87- sentence should be avoided as not one authorized by law in CRPF Act as

 that would be disproportionate and strikingly excessive to the gravity of the

 offence charged or misconduct imputed, as the case may be, and duly

 proved for swapping duties for short duration. It should not be used in a

 sense that because the authority empowered can and wants to dismiss a

 subordinate then resort should readily be had to the line of least resistance

 only to add colour of law to justify the dismissal based solely on conviction

 even when the charge was not stricto sensu criminal in nature. Changing

 duties may be misconduct but certainly not a criminal charge and I

 wholeheartedly agree with Mr Cheema on the fine distinction made to help

 this Court in understanding the boundaries of criminal and service law and

 where they could meet to shape relief even when the petitioner failed to

 appeal against the conviction. It would not be a proper exercise of

 jurisdiction in the Commandant, CRPF acting with a double edged sword,

 one to convict and sentence by a flea bite, the other to swat a fly with a

 cannonball, firing the man from service and sending him packing home

 with bags and all, stripped off self esteem, self respect, to be shunned and

 despised by his family and community. Stung by the stigma of dismissal

 from service. The power to sentence till the rising of the court cannot be

 allowed to be abused by applauding the hand that strikes the match on the

 ignition stick, the inflictor watching in mirth, reassured by law which

 shields and protects the authority empowered to sentence and dismiss. No

 reasons have been recorded by the Commandant 6th respondent in the

 judgment of conviction and sentence, justifying punishment imposed PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -88- arbitrarily till Zuber Ahmed rose for the day to walk into the sunset. This is

 characteristic of judicial tyranny that civil society ought not to tolerate or

 support and instead to abjure. Lives, livelihoods and careers are very

 precious things which ought not to be cut short or prematurely destroyed

 except for compelling reasons and which, if truncated, then even the man of

 ordinary intelligence or the man on the street would start a whispering

 campaign if not revolt against what has been visited upon a fellow citizen. 93. To turn now to the respondent/Union of India's objection as to

 alternative remedy, it is found that since this Court entertained the petition

 in the year 1999 and admitted the matter for regular hearing without

 relegating the petitioner then to avail his remedy under r. 29 of the rules it

 would not appear to me fair or just after such long lapse of time to dispose

 of the petition directing the petitioner to avail the remedy of further revision

 against the appellate order which would unnecessarily reverse the clock and

 prolong the litigation much to his agony. It is too late in the day to consider

 such a defence plea after admission of the matter. Besides, no period is

 prescribed in r. 29 within which a revision is to be decided. At any rate, it is

 well embedded in law and judicial practice that an alternative remedy is not

 an absolute bar to the maintainability of a writ petition, when an authority

 has acted wholly without jurisdiction or in abuse of authority or in its

 colourable exercise, the High Court should normally not refuse to exercise

 its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution on the ground of

 existence of an alternative remedy. After all, this Court remains a Court of

 hope where justice can be easily had without land mines laid out for PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -89- litigants. Its doors are always ajar to equity, hope, trust, love, faith in

 mankind, and concern for fellow-beings by avoiding booby traps, not

 falling prey to subterfuges of jurisdiction or its esoteric innards and

 subterranean catacombs built to deny relief. There may be an element of

 restorative justice also to be read in the dispensation, in shaping the

 ultimate, reasonable and adequate relief grantable, say as in this case, where

 the man has been kept out of service for eternity and not for the best

 reasons. The violation of the protections guaranteed by Articles 14 , 16 and 21 of the Constitution to the petitioner and in invoking the extraordinary

 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution leaves no manner of

 doubt, to my mind, that this Court in exercise of its high prerogative

 powers, informed reason and freedom of action, will have jurisdiction to

 quash both the impugned orders dated March 19, 1993 [P-4 and P-5] and

 the appellate order [P-6] dated May 15, 1993 being violative of the rights

 of the petitioner under the Constitution of India. Conclusions in summary: 27 (cc) was not applicable. The petitioner was merely convicted of an

 offence under the CRPF Act and not of a criminal charge under the IPC . PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -91- Hence, the punishment of dismissal from service vide order dated March

 19, 1993 is illegal, invalid and in contravention of the CRPF Act and the

 Rules. (iii) I find that the petitioner was made a victim of discrimination,

 bias, vendetta and unlawful action disproportionate to the charge at the

 hands of the 6th respondent. Even though a departmental enquiry and not

 judicial trial was recommended against the petitioner, the 6th respondent

 chose to act excessively. The Judge became the prosecutor. To the contrary,

 as against Constable Himmat Singh a full-fledged departmental enquiry was

 conducted by the 6th respondent and Guard Commander L/NK U.N

 Gaikwad and Sub Inspector M.J Kujur were awarded punishment of severe

 censure. Under what circumstances, and on what basis the 6th respondent

 proceeded to discriminate against the petitioner is not known. No reasons

 are assigned or forthcoming from record as to why no departmental enquiry

 was held against the petitioner in the very same case where the same was

 done against Constable Himmat Singh. No reasons were recorded in

 dispensing with such a departmental enquiry. Hence, the impugned action

 of the 6th respondent in passing the orders at Annexures P-4 and P-5 and the

 appellate order, at Annexure P 6 in not noticing this injustice are contrary to Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution and thus the same deserve to be set

 aside. (iv) That the disproportionate and excessive punishment imposed by

 the 6th respondent in concurrent exercise of his powers as Chief Judicial

 Magistrate and disciplinary authority was not condign and leaves no manner PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -92- of doubt for this Court to come to the conclusion that the petitioner was

 punished for a charge which was not made out and not even remotely

 proved in the light of evidence on record. In view of the submissions made

 before this Court by the learned Senior counsel, Mr Cheema and supported

 by the contentions of the learned amicus curiae, this court is fortified in its

 conclusion that the impugned orders Annexures P-4, P-5 and P-6 are wholly

 illegal, without jurisdiction and thus deserve to be set aside. The right to

 impose a penalty carries with it the duty to act justly, fairly and honestly.

 The flea bite sentence was shockingly disproportionate to the offence,

 assuming it was committed and punishable in s. 10 (n) of the Act. Neither

 the conviction nor the sentence imposed can legally act as a barrier to relief

 as it is found far too harsh, oppressive and violative of Article 14 of the

 Constitution on both unfair discrimination and unreasonableness which are

 both facets of the same protection against excessiveness and

 disproportionateness in administrative action. The decision making process

 inspires no confidence and to the contrary appears contrived to suit an event

 foreseen, blurring vision and rationality. It appears writ large that the status

 and address of the protected personality blinded and overwhelmed an

 objective decision. Subjective satisfaction of the disciplinary authority in

 choice of punishment is required to bear a jural relationship compatible

 with an objective criteria applied in making a fair assessment of all

 attending circumstances and attaching true weight to evidence collected at

 the trial by the prosecutor which in the present case is hardly anything more

 than a mere needle of suspicion of guilt. The 6th respondent/Chief Judicial PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -93- Magistrate administered a homeopathic dose on the criminal side and then

 quickly injected fatal poison on the administrative side into the bloodstream

 which has taken the petitioner 22 years in search of an antidote to cure the

 malady inflicted. (v) This Court deems it appropriate to hold that CRPF personnel

 ought to be governed by constitutional standards and the protections and

 procedural safeguards envisaged under the amended Cr.P.C , 1973 and the

 Constitution of India currently, as it may no longer be tenable to conduct

 judicial trials by the CRPF under the Cr.PC , 1898. Accordingly, as prayed

 for by the amicus, this Court requests the Law Commission of India to

 consider examining the CRPF Act and the Rules framed thereunder and to

 consider devising a mechanism for administration of discipline and

 imposition of penalties upon CRPF personnel which are the touchstone and

 mainstream of a disciplined Force as also keeping in mind the current

 position of law envisaged under the Cr.P.C , 1973 and the Constitution of

 India. Let a copy of this judgment be sent by the office to be placed before

 the Hon'ble Law Commission of India at New Dehi for its kind

 consideration of the matter to make, if desirable, appropriate

 recommendations accordingly. (vi) For the variety of reasons and the arguments advanced on either

 side this Court is inclined to think that the dismissal order of March 19,

 1993, is not legally sustainable as it is shockingly harsh, extremely

 oppressive, arbitrary and per se discriminatory and, consequently, the

 appellate order dated May 15, 1993 dismissing the appeal in a summary PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -94- manner without any opportunity of hearing or reflection or thought duly

 paid at the appellate stage following the dotted line, thus cannot be

 maintained and deserve to be set aside as infringing the protection afforded

 by Articles 14 , 16 & 21 of the Constitution which cannot be denied to the

 petitioner, even though he was a member of the disciplined Force. The

 damage done then deserves to be repaired. 95. Consequently, this writ petition is allowed. The Order of

 conviction / sentence Annexure P-4, Order of dismissal Annexure P-5 and

 appellate order Annexure P-6, stand quashed upon a writ of certiorari

 issued. It is, however, found too late on account of passage of 22 years to

 grant liberty to the respondents to follow due process of holding a domestic

 enquiry under r. 27 of the CRPF Rules, 1955. The wisdom of giving such

 liberty at this distance of time may be questionable where witnesses may

 not be available or their memories too jaded for legal recall nor would it be

 practicably possible to hold an enquiry and for no purpose especially when

 the complainant did not support the case of the prosecution at the trial by

 failing to identify Zuber Ahmed as the culprit. 96. It is also found too late now to return the petitioner to the

 revisional jurisdiction against the appellate order upholding the dismissal.

 This, when followed would do no credit to this Court and may instead tend

 to bring the Court to disrepute, if not ridicule by adopting such a course

 and, therefore, CRPF's objection on alternative remedy is overruled. I may

 remind that when writ petitions are admitted for regular hearing after

 hearing parties such an objection loses its sting and becomes history not to PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -95- be repeated again or the plea entertained with any seriousness at the final

 hearing. 97. The moot but ticklish question still remains when the dismissal

 order is set aside then the consequence of quashing of the order of dismissal

 would ordinarily result in restoring the petitioner to service with all

 consequential benefits by restoration of the status quo ante. The Full Bench

 dictum of this Court in vintage but universally pleasant ruling in Radha

 Ram v. Municipal Committee, Barnala ; 1983 PLR 21 informs and has

 been followed since once the relief of setting aside of the order of

 termination is granted it follows sequitur that the employee in the eyes of

 law continues to be in service and as a necessary consequence thereof

 would be entitled to all the past emoluments flowing from declaration of

 that right by decree. He must be deemed to be in a position identical with

 that existing prior to the passing of the order of termination of his service.

 The emoluments of the post are a logical consequence of setting aside the

 order of termination. But this case has special features, particularly when

 the court is dealing with a former member of a uniformed force where

 demands of service spent day in and day out is of its own peculiar value on

 which parameters required for career progression and promotions etc. are

 based on active service not found usually in ordinary civil service. The

 petitioner by now would have lost his skills forever. Then what relief should

 the petitioner take? He was dismissed long ago in the year 1993 and twenty

 two years have gone by of which six of them were misspent in the Calcutta

 High Court on bad legal advice hoping for justice. Are there any clues in PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -96- past precedents to meet such exigencies in terms of relief? Happily, those

 are not far to search. In Ex. Sepoy Sube Singh vs Union Of India And

 Ors , 140 (2007) DLT 26 a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court

 speaking through Hon'ble T.S.Thakur, J. [when His Lordship adorned the

 Bench of the Delhi High Court] when the Hon'ble Bench had occasion to

 deal with such a situation when confronted by one such a piquant situation

 faced with an unlawful discharge order of a Major in the Indian Army

 ventured to cull out the admissible relief in a special way but refrained from

 awarding reinstatement to service where the adjudicatory process had

 widened the gap from the date of discharge from service by seven years

 making return to service difficult by reason of the peculiar nature of duties

 involved in the Armed Forces, with the Army authorities strongly resisting

 reinstatement, the Court thus admirably moulded the relief by awarding

 service pension instead of reinstatement to service in the changed and

 supervening circumstances in the following manner, to quote: In this special way relief was granted even while the Court was

 "...conscious of the fact that in matters relating to Armed Forces, courts

 adopt a liberal approach in accepting as valid, orders, even when they are

 not reasoned. Some amount of latitude is in the very nature of military

 customs, discipline and hierarchy due to the armed forces. That latitude

 cannot however extend to upholding an order which does not on the face of

 it show due and proper application of mind by the authority passing the

 same." Later, the principle enunciated in the precedent was followed and

 applied in deciding the case B.P. Sinha vs. Union of India and Ors. rendered by a subsequent co-ordinate Division Bench of the Delhi High

 Court in WP (C) No.1763/1979 rendered on 30 July, 2008 in the case of a

 Constable in CRPF, denying reinstatement but entitling by issue of

 mandamus the right to pension by directing that the petitioner would be

 deemed to have retired on completion of 20 years service counted from the

 date of discharge thereby entitling the petitioner therein to qualifying

 service for pension and pensionary benefits but without any arrears of pay PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -98- or benefit of seniority. In making the order by way of alternative relief the

 court relied on its earlier dicta in Des Raj Shanwal (Lt. Col.) Vs. Union of

 India and Ors., 2004 (1) SCR 191 passed on similar lines where such relief

 was granted. Therefore, I see no reason why this practical and pragmatic

 course should not be adopted in this case in the alternative in order to secure

 the ends of justice. It is accordingly so ordered. Compliance be made within

 three months from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order by

 respondent CRPF Headquarters, New Delhi duly served by the petitioner. 98. However, this order will not preclude the CRPF from reinstating

 the petitioner to service if it is still feasible or possible to do so. It would

 examine if the petitioner can be adjusted on a suitable field or non-field post

 if available and if it is found just and meet in the light of this judgment then

 the same can be resorted to holistically so as to bring about a right to work

 on current salary and entitlement to future pension in accordance with rules,

 but if such course is adopted then without payment of arrears of back salary;

 given the petitioner is still of an employable age. To this end an order would

 be passed and communicated to the petitioner within the time set for

 compliance as above. 99. Nonetheless, the petitioner shall have costs of litigation assessed

 at Rs 50,000/- paid by respondent CRPF, in any of the above two situations,

 in the first instance but costs may be recovered from the unpaid official dues

 to the 6th respondent, if any remaining, as he was issued summons by this

 Court duly served upon him, as recorded in the interim order dated May 18,

 2000, but who chose not to appear or contest the case for reasons best PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -99- known to him even when malice was personally imputed against the 6th

 respondent which only he could answer and could not be responded to by

 the official respondents in view of the nature of the averments made in the

 petition. He is thus proceeded ex parte, however, with the liberty to apply to

 this Court for waiver of costs, if such prayer is supported by sufficient

 cause, then the request, if made, may be entertained and considered on

 merits in the disposed of matter by the appropriate roster Bench. 100. It was rather strange, when the Court was informed at the last

 hearing by the learned counsel for the petitioner that Sh Pushkar Singh rose

 to be an Inspector General in CRPF and while posted in Bihar was arrested

 on being booked by the police and remanded to police and then judicial

 custody, with bail once rejected by court, and was thereafter dismissed from

 service in a cash-for-job recruitment scam involving crores of rupees which

 surfaced in the year 2009. He was tried by the Special Court (CBI), Patna,

 as one of the main accused in the complaint/FIR on criminal charges

 spending time in jail. But unfortunately for him, not till the rising of the

 Court. I cannot help saying that there is a thing called poetic justice in this

 world. Note: Extracts from case law and provisons of Act and Rules

 wherever quoted and underlined or emboldened are only for emphasis and

 not part of original text. Where text in the narration is underlined, it is for

 prominence to locate easily the ratios as presently understood. Office to deliver a copy of this order per kind hand at the

 addresses of the special amicus, learned Senior counsel Mr R.S.Cheema

 and the learned amicus curiae Mr Anil Malhotra, Advocate as an expression PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP No.15348 of 1999 -100- of gratitude of this Court for their valuable assistance. Original files be now returned to Ms Puneeta Sethi by the Court

 Secretary. (RAJIV NARAIN RAINA)
 JUDGE
 April 30, 2015. Paritosh Kumar PARITOSH KUMAR 2015.05.04 14:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document