2. CRL.A. No.562/2009

TAUHID RAZA @ GUDDU ..... Appellant

 versus

STATE(NCT) OF DELHI ..... Respondent

Advocates who appeared in this case:- B IPC . Co-accused Mohd. Khalil is convicted for the offence u/s 201 IPC
read with section 120-B IPC. The appeals are also directed against the order
of sentence dated 31st January, 2009 whereby both the appellants are
sentenced to life imprisonment with fine in the sum of Rs.25,000/- each for
the offence u/s 302 IPC read with section 120-B IPC and in default of
payment of fine, both of them are to further undergo SI for a period of three
months. Both the appellants are further sentenced to undergo imprisonment
for seven years for the offence u/s 201 read with section 120-B IPC with a
fine of Rs.10000/- each and in default of payment of fine, each shall further
undergo SI for a period of three months. Co-accused Mohd. Khalil is
sentenced to undergo imprisonment for seven years for the offence u/s 201 IPC read with section 120-B IPC with a fine in the sum of Rs.10000/- and in
default of payment of fine to undergo SI for three months. Co-accused
Mohd. Khalil has deposited the fine and has not preferred appeal against his
conviction and sentence. The appellants were given the benefit of Section
428 Cr.P.C. It was also ordered that both the sentences shall run
concurrently. 2. Briefly the facts of the case are as under:- 3. The aforesaid DD report i.e., Ex.PW5/A was marked to SI Tanvir
Ashraf PW-17 who along with Constable Yashvir went to the spot where the
dead body of a male aged about 40 years having some injuries on the head
and cut marks on the shoulder was lying. A scooter (Bajaj Chetak) bearing CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 3 of 32 no. DL 7SQ 5486 seized vide memo Ex. PW17/article 12 was parked at
some distance from the dead body. A pair of shoes with blood stained socks
were also lying near the dead body. A jacket made of rexine was also lying
there. There was a key in the scooter. With the said key, dickey of the
scooter was opened and driving licence, pollution certificate, insurance
policy and other documents were taken out. The driving licence was in the
name of Shamim Ahmed, R/o N-169, Sunder Nagri. In the meantime,
Inspector Iqbal Mohd PW 18A had also reached the spot. One Abdul Karim
(PW1) also reached there and had identified the dead body as that of his
relative, namely Shamim Ahmed. The crime team including a photographer
was called at the spot. Inspector Iqbal Mohd PW-18A made endorsement
Ex. PW18/A on the copy of DD 2A Ex. PW5/A and sent the same to police
station through Constable Hitender PW 14 and got the FIR Ex.PW5/B
registered. The Photographer took photos Ex. PW6/16 to Ex.PW6/30 of the
spot. The Site Plan Ex.PW18/B was prepared. The blood from the spot was
picked up with the help of a cotton gauze as well as earth control and blood
stained earth. Three separate pulandas (bundles) were prepared in this
regard and the same were sealed with the seal of IMK and seized vide
seizure memo Ex.PW14/D. The jacket, shoes and socks lying at the spot
were kept in a pullanda which was also sealed with the seal of IMK and
were seized vide memo Ex.PW14/A. The documents recovered from the
dickey of scooter were also seized vide Seizure Memo Ex.PW14/B. The
scooter along with the key was also seized vide Seizure Memo Ex.PW14/C.
Inspector Iqbal Mohd PW-18A filled up the inquest form. The statement of
Abdul Karim PW-1 and that of son of the deceased Afsar Karim PW4 were
recorded about identification of dead body. The dead body was sent to
mortuary GTB Hospital for postmortem through Constable Hitender PW-14. 4. Thereafter, Inspector Iqbal Mohd PW-18A along with SI Tanvir
Ashraf PW17 and Constable Manoj went to the house of deceased at N-169,
Sunder Nagri where his wife appellant Shama Parveen had met them. A
lady constable Kamini PW13 was also called there. The appellant Shama
Parveen was interrogated by Inspector PW-18A. Her personal search was
conducted by lady Constable Kamini PW13 vide memo Ex. PW13/A.
Appellant Shama Parveen had made disclosure statement Ex.PW13/C. She
was arrested vide memo Ex.PW13/B. She led them to a room on first floor
of her house and pointed out the place of occurrence on the basis of which a
pointing out Memo Ex.PW 13/E was prepared. She also removed five sheets
of fancy papers which were pasted on the wall of that room and before
pasting, the said wall was painted. On removal of sheets by her, blood stains
were observed on the wall. Appellant Shama Parveen also produced over 21
similar sheets of paper after taking out the same from an iron trunk. The
used as well as unused paper were seized in two different pullandas vide
Seizure memo Ex.PW13/E. Appellant Shama Parveen also produced one
broken wicket which was lying behind a refrigerator kept in the same room.
The same was kept in a polythene bag and then put in a pulanda which was
sealed with the seal of IMK. The IO PW18A had found hair struck on the
wall which was blood stained. He seized the same by completing necessary
formalities. Some portion of concrete from the wall which was blood
stained was also seized. There was also some blood on a cot made of iron
pipes (folding) in the room which was picked up by him and kept in a
pullanda. The same was sealed with the seal of IMK. All the above three
sealed pullandas were seized vide memo Ex. PW 13/D. Thereafter,
appellant Shama Praveen took them to the roof of her house and had shown
one drum containing fresh paint which was also seized after completing CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 5 of 32 necessary formalities in this regard vide seizure memo Ex.PW 13/F. The
videographer along with photographer were called at the spot. The entire
proceedings were got videographed. 5. Thereafter, on the pointing of appellant Shama Praveen, co-
accused/appellant Tauhid Raza was apprehended who was standing in a gali
outside her home. His personal search was conducted vide memo
Ex.PW17/B and was arrested vide memo Ex.PW17/A. On interrogation, he
made a disclosure statement Ex.PW 17/C. Appellant-Tauhid Raza led the
police party to his house bearing No. N-162 in the same gali and opened the
door of his house with a key and produced one sword lying on the ledge, the
blade of which was blood stained. The sketch Ex. PW17/D of sword was
prepared. The same was seized by IO PW18A vide memo Ex.PW 17/D after
completing necessary formalities. The lock and key were also seized vide
seizure memo Ex.PW17/E.
 Thereafter, appellant Tauhid Raza took the police party to Tahidpur
main road near cremation ground and pointed out a place in nala and got
recovered 12 clothes i.e., pillow covers, bed sheets, shirt, muffler etc and
one big broken cricket wicket. All these clothes/broken wicket were seized
by the IO by completing the formalities vide memo Ex.PW 11/A. Appellant
Tauhid Raza again took the IO PW18A and other police officials to his
house and produced one photograph Ex.PW 13/A which was seized vide
seizure memo Ex.PW 17/F. All the proceedings were videographed. Both
the appellants were brought to the police station and were put up in the lock
up. 6. On that very day, Shri Shravan Kumar (PW9), owner of TSR bearing
no. DL IRG-7324 produced the TSR Ex. P1 in the police station. The right
side curtain of TSR had blood stains. A piece of curtain having blood stains CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 6 of 32 was seized after cutting it from the curtain vide seizure memo Ex.PW8/DA
after completing necessary formalities. On 15th February, 2002, co-accused Mohd.Khalil was arrested vide
arrest memo Ex.PW17/G. On interrogation, he also made a disclosure
statement Ex.PW17/I and his personal search was taken vide memo
Ex.PW17/H. On the same day, postmortem examination of the dead body
was conducted. The statement (Ex. PW4/D) of Afsar Karim, minor son of
deceased, was recorded on 15.02.2002. He is alleged to have seen the
occurrence. The statement of other witnesses was also recorded in the
course of investigation. 7. After completion of investigation, a report under Section 173 Cr.P.C.
was filed against both the appellants and the co-accused before the learned
Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi. Thereafter, it was assigned to the court of
learned Addl. Sessions Judge. The charges were framed against both the
appellants and the co-accused for having entered into unlawful conspiracy to
kill the deceased Shamim Ahmad and thereby committing the offence
punishable u/s 120-B IPC. They were further charged that on the night
intervening 13th and 14th February, 2002 in pursuance to the aforesaid
criminal conspiracy they intentionally caused death of Shamim Ahmad in
the house of Shama Parveen and thereby committed offence punishable u/s
302 / 120-B IPC. They were further charged that on the aforesaid date, time
and place, in furtherance of criminal conspiracy, they caused disappearance
of evidence of offence by removing and putting the dead body in the
roadside in order to save themselves from punishment and thereby
committed the offence punishable under Section 201 / 120-B IPC. Both the
appellants as well as co-accused pleaded not guilty in respect of charges
framed against them and claimed trial. 8. The prosecution in all had examined 21 witnesses, out of which Afsar
Karim, PW-4, the son of deceased and appellant, is the eye witness to the
alleged occurrence. He was about 9 years old at the time of occurrence.
PW-2 Dr Gaurav Jain had conducted postmortem examination on the
deceased. Ms Geeta Bhatacharya, PW-16 and Sh. B. Munna, PW-17 are the
Junior Scientific Officers from CFSL, Calcutta. They have proved on record
the reports in respect of the exhibits sent there for examination. Mr B.C.
Purkait, PW-18 is the Junior Scientific Officer who has also proved on
record report Ex. PW18/A. Karim Khan PW-1 is the relative of appellant
who has identified the dead body of deceased. Madan Singh, PW-3 is the
photographer who has proved on record the photograph of both the
appellants. Kalim Khan, PW-7 is the other elder brother of the deceased
who had received the dead body after the postmortem examination. Sharvan
Kumar PW-9 is the owner of TSR Ex.P1 from whom appellant Tauhid Raza
had taken the said TSR on rent on the relevant date as well as prior to that.
Vikram Yadav PW-8 is the brother of PW-9. Remaining evidence is of
police witnesses. 9. Both the appellants in their respective statements u/s 313 Cr.P.C have
denied incriminating evidence against them and stated that they were
innocent persons and were falsely implicated. Appellant Shama Parveen had stated that the brother of deceased was
having some property dispute with the deceased in his native village. She
had also stated that deceased was involved in property dealing business. The
brother of deceased in connivance with police had implicated her in the
present case so as to prevent her from taking any share in the property of the
deceased in the native village. She has further stated that the murder of her
husband had been committed by his brothers at some other place. She has CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 8 of 32 also stated that no recovery was effected at her instance. She has further
stated that her husband was not a transporter but was having property
dealing business. No evidence in defence was led by the accused. 10. The learned trial court relying upon ocular evidence of Master Afsar
Karim, PW-4 son of deceased, circumstantial evidence and medical
evidence/CFSL reports on record has held that both the appellants had
hatched a conspiracy to commit murder of deceased and that they were
having extra marital affairs and had removed the evidence of murder in an
attempt to avoid being caught. The learned trial court further held that co-
accused Mohd. Khalil also assisted them in removing the evidence of
murder. Accordingly, both the appellants were held guilty for the offence
punishable u/s 302 / 201 read with section 120-B IPC and the co-accused
Mohd. Khalil was convicted for the offence u/s 201 read with section 120-B IPC and sentenced them vide order dated 31.01.2009 as is stated above. 11. Shri S.P.Singh Chaudhary, Learned counsel appearing for the
appellant Shama Parveen has contended that Afsar Karim, PW-4 is a child
witness aged about 10 years. His deposition is not believable as he was
tutored by his Khalu (uncle) i.e., Abdul Karim PW-1. It is contended that
alleged occurrence took place in the night intervening 13th and 14th February,
2002. Afsar Karim PW-4 had met the police on 14.02.2002 at the time of
identification of dead body at the spot where it was found. It is contended
that at that time he did not reveal anything to the police about the case.
Thereafter also he had met the police at the time when his mother was
interrogated on 14.02.2002 after the police had gone to his house after
completion of proceedings at the place of recovery of body. It is alleged that
he had made a statement to the police implicating the appellants and co-
accused Khalil only on 15.02.2002 at 12.00 noon. It is contended that on CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 9 of 32 14.02.2002 Afsar Karim PW4 had gone to the house of his Khalu PW1
where PW4 was tutored by PW1. Thereafter he remained with him. Under
these circumstances, the trial court ought not to have relied upon his
testimony in convicting the appellants. It is contended that evidence of child
witness must be considered with care and caution whereas in the present
case the same is not considered in that manner by the learned trial court. It
is contended that Afsar Karim PW4 has also made improvements in his
deposition before the court. He has deposed that his mother had pressed the
mouth of his father with a pillow at the time of incident whereas he had not
stated so to the police in Ex.PW4/DA. It is further contended that Dr.
Gaurav Vinod Jain PW-2 found about 22 injuries on the body of the
deceased and most of the injuries were incised wounds whereas Afsar Karim
PW-4 had deposed that appellant Tauhid Raza was hitting his father with a
wicket. It is contended that the alleged weapon of offence can‟t cause
incised wound as such evidence of Afsar Karim PW4 is not believable. It is further contended that photograph Ex.PW3/A of the appellants is
proved by Sh. Madan Singh PW-3. It is contended that said witness was not
allowed to be cross-examined by learned counsel for appellant as such his
evidence can‟t be read against the appellant. It is contended that Constable
Sunder Lal PW-6 did not say in his examination-in-chief that he took the
photographs of the house of deceased also where it is alleged that the
incident had taken place. Under these circumstances, photograph Ex.
PW6/16 to 30 wherein there are alleged photographs of house of deceased
also cannot be read against the appellant. It is further contended that in the
arrest memo Ex.PW 13/A of appellant Shama Parveen time of arrest is not
mentioned as such arrest of appellant Shama Parveen is not proved. It is
further contended that no public witness was joined at the time of CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 10 of 32 investigation at the house of appellant i.e., pointing out by her of papers (5 in
no.) affixed on the wall and on removal by her blood stains were seen on the
wall, production of 21 unused sheets by her which were seized vide memo
Ex.PW13/E, seizure of broken wicket vide memo Ex.PW13/D, seizing of
blood stained hair, blood lying on the cot, etc. vide memo Ex.PW13/D,
seizing of drum containing fresh paint at the instance of appellant vide
memo Ex. 13/F. It is contended that in these circumstances articles seized
above does not inspire confidence and can‟t be read against appellant. It is contended that Constable Ram Pal PW-11 was at the relevant
time a Videographer posted in Distt. Line North East. As per his deposition
he was called by the SHO of P.S Nand Nagri on 14.02.2002 and thereupon
he had gone to Sunder Nagri with the motor cycle rider of said police
station at the house of appellant where ACP, SHO PW18A, SI Tanvir
Ahmed PW17 were present. The said witness has deposed having done the
videography of proceedings at the house of appellant Shama Parveen vide
videotape Ex.P1 i.e., making disclosure statement by her to IO, pointing out
place of occurrence, pointing out blood stains in the wall of room after
removal of paper sheets, etc. It is contended that the evidence of Ram Pal
PW-11 is not believable as in his cross-examination, he has stated that
videography of aforesaid proceedings was done in the morning at about
10/10.30 am whereas as per prosecution, police officials had remained at the
spot where dead body was found uptil 11 am and thereafter they had come to
the house of appellant Shama Parveen. It is further contended that Constable
Kamini PW-13 has deposed that appellant Shama Parveen‟s disclosure
statement was recorded at 4-5 pm whereas as per IO, it was recorded much
earlier. It is contended that there are serious contradictions in the evidence CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 11 of 32 of police witnesses about timings of proceedings at the house of appellant, as
such, the same are not believable. It is further contended that substantive charge under Section 120-B of
IPC was framed against the appellant for hatching conspiracy with co-
accused persons to kill the deceased, however, the trial court has not held her
guilty separately u/s 120-B IPC, as such, the appellant cannot be convicted
for the offence punishable u/s 302 / 201 with the aid of section 120-B IPC, as
such appellant deserves acquittal in the present case. 12. The amicus curiae appearing for the appellant Tauhid Raza has
adopted the above argument and has further contended that appellant Tauhid
Raza was arrested before 11 a.m. as such alleged recoveries at his instance
are planted. It is contended that appellant Tauhid Raza did not make any
disclosure statement to the police nor any recovery was effected at his
instance and he has been falsely implicated in the present case. It is
contended that as per evidence of SI Tanvir Ashraf PW-17 after the arrest of
appellant Tauhid Raza, he led the police party to his house and opened the
door of his house with a key after taking out the same from the pocket of his
pant. It is contended that when Tauhid Raza had already been arrested and
his search was conducted vide Ex.PW17/B, question of having key in his
pant does not arise, as such alleged recovery of sword Ex. PW17/E,
photographs Ex. PW17/F at his instance is not believable. It is contended
that even alleged recovery of clothes vide Memo Ex. PW11/A is also not
believable. It is contended that alleged place of recovery of clothes is open
and accessible to all as such recovery of clothes at his instance is not
believable. There is no evidence of extra marital relations between Tauhid
Raza with Shama Parveen. From the photograph Ex. PW3/A, inference
cannot be drawn that they were having extra marital relations. It is CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 12 of 32 contended that appellant Tauhid Raza was a neighbour of the deceased and
in that connection, he used to visit his house. 13. Ms Richa Kapur, learned APP for State has argued that accused
persons i.e., appellants have been rightly convicted by the learned ASJ.
Master Afsar Karim PW4, the son of deceased and appellant Shama
Parveen, is an eye witness to the occurrence. His testimony is reliable and
trustworthy. He has categorically deposed having seen the occurrence. It is
further contended that there is only one day‟s delay in making the statement
to the police and clear explanation has been given by Afsar Karim PW4 as to
why he did not make his statement to the police earlier. It is contended that
the said witness has given full narration of the incident. His material
deposition is not demolished in cross-examination. It is further contended
that the motive of murder is also discernable from the testimony of the child
witness PW4 as well as from the evidence of Madan Singh PW-3. It is
contended that the entire evidence shows that murder was committed in the
house of deceased. It is contended that there are blood stains on the wall of the house of
appellant Shama Parveen and on the iron cot. Blood stained hair of
deceased was also seized from the place of occurrence. No explanation was
given as to why there were blood stains on the wall of the house. There was
no explanation as to why the same were covered with printed papers. It is
contended that burden was on the inmate of the house to explain as to how
there were blood stains on the wall of the room and as to why the same were
covered with wall paper but, appellant Shama Parveen had failed to explain.
It is contended that the same is highly incriminating evidence against the
appellant-Shama Parveen. It is contended that as per evidence of Sharawan Kumar PW9, there
were blood stains on the plastic curtain of the TSR Ex. P1 which was taken
on rent from him by appellant Tauhid Raza. The blood on the curtain Ex.
PW8/A of TSR Ex. P1 matches with that of deceased. It is contended that evidence on record establishes all the charges
levelled against the appellants beyond any reasonable doubt, as such, both
the appellants have rightly been convicted by the learned trial court. 14. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the entire
material on record. 15. The alleged eye witness of the case is Master Afsar Karim, PW-4.
The alleged incident is of the night intervening 13th and 14th February, 2002.
The evidence of PW-4 was recorded in court on 3rd April, 2003 after about
one year and two months of the incident. His age at the time of deposition
was about 10 years. Master Afsar Karim, PW-4 has deposed that till 15th February, 2002,
he was residing at N-159, Sunder Nagri, Delhi along with parents i.e.,
deceased Mohd Shameem and appellant Shama Parveen, his elder brother
Ansar Karim and younger brother Anwar Karim. The deceased was his
father and was a transporter who used to leave the house between 6 am to 8
am and used to return from business at about 8 pm/9 pm on all week days
except Sunday. On Sunday, he used to return in the noon time. Appellant
Tauhid Raza was living in their neighbourhood and was friendly with his
father for the past since three years. He has deposed that during the period his father used to go for
business, appellant Tauhid Raza used to come to their house to meet his
mother. He used to come soon after his father used to leave the house and
used to go back on the return of his father from work. Appellant Tauhid CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 14 of 32 Raza used to take lunch in his house and used to tell him to address him as
Papa. His mother i.e., appellant Shama Parveen had told him not to disclose
the said fact to his father otherwise he would get angry. He has further
deposed that during the presence of Tauhid Raza in his house he used to go
to school and when he used to return from the school in the noon time he
used to find appellant Tauhid Raza at his house. Her mother used to send
him and his brother separately for purchasing one or the other things from
the market. On 13.02.2002 at about 9.30 p.m. appellant Tauhid Raza @
Guddu borrowed scooter from his father and went away. He went to sleep at
about 10.30 p.m. He and his elder brother slept on a cot in the verandah.
His mother and younger brother slept on another cot in the room. His father
slept on the third cot in the room. At about 1/2 a.m. in the night, he heard
the shrieks of his father who was saying "ALLAH ALLAH". He woke up
and went inside the room. He saw appellant Guddu was hitting a wicket on
the head of his father. When he got up, he found his younger brother
sleeping with him on his cot. When his father tried to stand up from the cot,
his mother pulled his leg, sat on his chest and pressed his mouth with a
pillow. He was frightened to see the same and wanted to go downstairs to
urinate but appellant Tauhid Raza prohibited him from doing so and asked
him to urinate in the verandah itself. He also saw a sword lying beneath the
cot of his father. He urinated in the verandah. When he returned, appellant
Tauhid Raza told him not to tell anything to anyone failing which he would
face the same thing. Thereafter, appellant Tauhid Raza and his mother took
the dead body downstairs. The co-accused Khalil who resides in their
neighbourhood was standing outside the house. He and appellant Tauhid
Raza took the dead body of his father in a TSR. They also took the clothes
with which the blood was cleaned. Her mother covered the blood stains on CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 15 of 32 the wall with the help of water colour of pink colour lying in the house. His
mother also pasted colour papers near almirah where lot of blood was there.
His mother also told him and his brothers that if anybody would ask about
their father, they should tell them that he had gone away after taking
`10,000/-. Her brothers had woken up but out of fear they continued lying
on the cot. Next day i.e. on 14.02.2002, he had gone with his Khalu (Mausa)
Abdul Karim PW1 to the bus stop where he identified the dead body of his
father vide statement Ex.PW4/A. Police had met him there but out of fear
he did not disclose the incident to anyone. When his mother i.e., appellant
told the entire thing to the police on 14.02.2002, he became free from fear
and on the next date gave the statement to the police in which he narrated the
entire things to the police. 16. On being cross-examined on behalf of appellants and co-accused
Khalil, he has stated that his native place is Village Darya Bagh, Distt.
Barabanki, U.P. He has denied that he was living in village at the time of
incident and had come to Delhi only after the incident. He has also stated as
to who was residing on the right side of his house. He has stated that
neighbours did not come at the spot. Mohalla people came on the next
morning when they had come to know of the incident. He has deposed
having reached the spot where dead body was lying for identification on
14.02.2002 at about 10.30 a.m. He has denied the suggestion that he did not
go to the place of dead body of his father. He has denied the suggestion that
his father had left the house of his own after taking ` 10,000/-. He has also
denied that someone else had killed his father. The police came to his house
on 14.02.2002 at about 9.00 a.m. and remained there till 4-5 p.m. He has
denied that he was living with his Chacha (paternal uncle). He has denied
that there was any property dispute with his Chacha in Barabanki or that his CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 16 of 32 mother used to interfere or that his Chacha had threatened his mother not to
interfere. He has also stated in cross-examination that the incident continued
for 10-20 minutes in his presence. He did not try to save his father because
he was frightened. On the next day, he did not go out uptil 1 a.m. He had
only gone out when his Khalu PW1 had come and taken him to the spot.
After the incident, he did not go to the school as he had gone to the village.
He has denied that incident had not taken place inside the house or that the
dead body was not taken away from there. He has further stated that on the
day of incident his father took meals at 8.30 p.m. He has further stated that
he did not like the visits of appellant Tauhid Raza to his house and he
wished that he did not come to their house. 17. The material deposition of aforesaid witness as regards having seen
the occurrence i.e., appellant Tauhid Raza having hit his father with a wicket
and when his father tried to get up from the cot, his mother pulled his leg
and sat on his chest is not shaken in the cross-examination. The witness has
also stated that his mother had pressed the mouth of his father with a pillow.
On being confronted with statement Ex.PW4/DA which is his statement to
the police, the same is not stated therein. There is slight improvement in his
statement before the court. However, it must not be forgotten that his
evidence was recorded after a gap of one year and two months from the date
of incident and that his testimony on material points is in consonance with
the statement made before the police and is also not shaken in cross-
examination. Under these circumstances, the improvement of a minor
nature is not of much relevance. His testimony as regards covering the
blood stains on the wall in the room with the help of pink water colour and
then pasting the paper near almirah is also not demolished in cross-
examination. Reading the entire evidence of this witness, it cannot be said CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 17 of 32 that Afsar Karim PW4 had not seen the occurrence. 18. The contention of the counsel for the appellants that Afsar Karim,
PW-4 was a tutored witness as there is delay in making his statement to
police, as such appellants are falsely implicated has also been examined by
us. The contention raised has no force. The witness has clearly stated that
he had identified the dead body at Bus stop vide statement Ex.PW4/A on
14.02.2002. He has categorically deposed that he did not state to the police
on the earlier occasion i.e., at the time of identification of dead body on
14.02.2002 due to fear and but, when the police had met his mother i.e.,
appellant on 14.02.2002 and interrogated her, he came out of his fear and he
gave the statement to the police on 15.02.2002 at 12.00 noon in GTB
Hospital. Justified reasons have been given by the witness in not narrating
the incident earlier to the police. Further, his mother was involved in the
case. He must have thought a number of times to reveal the truth to the
police and when he gained courage, he narrated the incident. The child has
deposed against his mother. There is a ring of truth in it. There is also not
much delay as is alleged. The incident is of midnight of 13/14.02.2002 and
he has stated to the police on 15.02.2002 at 12.00 noon at the mortuary. The
contention of the appellants that he was tutored in the meanwhile by his
Khalu PW1 Adbul Karim is also not believable. Abdul Karim PW1 is the
husband of appellant Shama Parveen‟s sister. It is not the case of the
appellants that appellant Shama Parveen and her sister were having inimical
relations or that Abdul Karim PW1 was having any animosity with his
sister-in-law Shama Parveen and the appellant Tauhid Raza. Further, the
manner in which Afsar Karim (PW4) has narrated the entire incident i.e., the
repeated visits of Tauhid Raza in their house in the absence of his father,
eating food there and asking Afsar Karim (PW4) to address him as his CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 18 of 32 father, appellant telling Afsar Karim (PW4) not to tell about the visits of
Tauhid Raza to his father and the role of both the appellants at the time of
incident negatives the said contention. 19. It is well settled that a child witness if found competent to depose to
the facts and if found reliable, his/her reliable evidence can be the basis of
conviction. The only precaution which the court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child is that the witness must be reliable and that
there is no likelihood of the child having been tutored. 20. In Suryanarayana v. State of Karnataka : 2001 Crl.L.J 705, the
eye witness to the occurrence of murder was a child of 4 years of age. The
Supreme Court while discussing the evidence of the said witness has
observed as under:- 21. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare and others v. State of Maharashtra : 22. In the present case, it has come on record that at the time of the
incident, Afsar Karim PW4 was 9 years of age and was a student of Class 5.
At the time of deposition, he was 10 years of age. Learned Additional
Sessions Judge before administering oath to him had put questions to him to
find out as to whether the witness was capable of understanding the
importance of oath and was a competent witness and after being satisfied
with the same, his evidence was recorded. No variation of serious nature has
been pointed out by the learned counsel for the appellants in the evidence of
PW4 before court and his statement to police so as to make him an
unbelievable witness or that he was a tutored witness. Only bald allegations
have been leveled in this regard. It is also not believable that on the alleged
tutoring of his uncle i.e., Abdul Karim PW1 he will depose against his
mother. As noted earlier it is not the stand of defence that Abdul Karim
PW1 was having inimical relations with his wife‟s sister i.e., appellant
Shama Parveen and appellant Tauhid Raza. No inherent serious defect is
pointed out in the testimony of PW4. The child witness has stood the test of CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 20 of 32 cross-examination. Under these circumstances, the contention of the
appellant that he has been tutored by PW1 is rejected. 23. The stand of appellant Shama Parveen in statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. is that she has been falsely implicated by the brother of her deceased
husband in connivance with the police so as to prevent her from taking any
share in the property at the native village of the deceased. However, no
evidence is led in this behalf. No details of the alleged property have been
given wherein she is alleging her share. The defence taken is not believable. 24. The postmortem report Ex.PW2/A shows that dead body was sent for
postmortem examination on 15th February, 2002 at 10.45 am and autopsy
started at 10.50 am on the said date. As per aforesaid report time since death
has been given as about one and a half day which coincides with time and
date of incident as is deposed by Afsar Karim PW4. The cause of death is as
under:- As per evidence of Dr.Gaurav Vinod Jain PW-2 who has deposed having
conducted the postmortem examination on the body of deceased on
15.02.2002 vide report Ex.PW2/A, the cause of death was shock due to
hemorrhage produced by ante-mortem injury to the blood vessels by the
sharp edged weapon. Injury no.21 produced by long cylindrical weapon was
also sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature like injury nos.
5 and 6. He has also deposed that blood on the gauze, clothes, scalp hair in CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 21 of 32 sealed parcel and sample seal were handed over to SI Tanvir Ashraf PW17.
The fact that the postmortem report Ex.PW2/A shows that injury no. 21 was
caused by long cylindrical weapon, which was also sufficient to cause death
in the ordinary course of nature, supports the deposition of Afsar Karim,
PW4 that he had seen Tauhid Raza hitting a cricket wicket on the head of his
father. 25. Further, as per the prosecution case, after completing the proceedings
at the spot where dead body was found, SHO Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW
18A, SI Tanvir Aashraf PW-17 and Head Constable Manoj went to the
house of deceased i.e., N-169, Sunder Nagri where a lady Constable Kamini
PW-13 was called by Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A. The said witness has
deposed that Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A had interrogated Shama
Parveen and thereafter arrested her vide memo Ex.PW 13/B. Her personal
search was conducted by her vide memo Ex. PW 13/A. Appellant had made
disclosure statement Ex. PW13/C. The said witness has proved her
signature on personal search memo Ex.PW13/A and arrest memo
Ex.PW13/B and disclosure statement Ex.PW13/C of appellant Shama
Parveen. Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A has also deposed that personal
search of appellant Shama Parveen was conducted by Constable Kamini
PW13 and appellant Shama Parveen was arrested by him vide arrest memo
Ex.PW 13/B. Their deposition as regards arrest of appellant vide memo
Ex.PW 13/B is not shaken in cross-examination. Time of arrest is not
mentioned in Ex.PW13/B which is a lacuna on the part of Investigating
Officer. Reading the evidence of SI Tanvir Ashraf PW17 and IO PW18,
time of arrest of Shama Parveen is clearly established. Considering the
overall evidence on record, the prosecution case cannot be rejected on the
aforesaid lacuna as is contended. 26. Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A has also deposed that appellant Shama
Parveen led them to a room on the first floor of her house and pointed out
the place of occurrence vide memo Ex.PW13/E. Appellant Shama Parveen
also produced five sheets of fancy paper which were pasted on the wall of
that room and same were pasted after the wall was painted. On the removal
of sheets by her, some blood stains were seen on the wall. Thereafter,
appellant Shama Parveen also handed over 21 similar sheets of unused
papers after bringing out the same from an iron trunk and the same were
seized in two different pulandas and were sealed with the seal of IMK vide
seizure memo Ex.PW 13/E. The appellant also produced one broken cricket
wicket from behind a refrigerator kept in the same room. The wicket Ex. P-
6 was seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW13/D. Inspector Iqbal Mohd PW18
deposed having found hair stuck on the wall which was blood stained. He
seized the same vide memo Ex.PW13/D after completing necessary
formalities. He had also seized concrete from the wall which was blood
stained as well as some portion of concrete vide aforesaid memo. Inspector
Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A has deposed that he also observed some blood lying
on a cot made of iron pipes (folding) which was picked. The same was
picked up by him and kept in a pullanda which was also sealed with the seal
of IMK vide seizure memo Ex.PW 13/D. 27. Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A has further deposed that thereafter
appellant Shama Parveen took them to the roof of her house and produced
one drum containing fresh paint. The same was seized after sealing with the
seal of IMK vide seizure memo Ex.PW 13/F. Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW
18A further deposed that a videographer was also called and video recording
of all the aforesaid proceedings was done and a photographer was also called
who had taken the photographs of the place of occurrence. Thereafter on the CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 23 of 32 pointing of appellant Shama Parveen, appellant Tauhid Raza was
apprehended who was standing in the gali outside that house. 28. SI Tanvir Ashraf PW-17 has also deposed in the same manner as has
been deposed by Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A. He has proved his
signatures on the disclosure statement of appellant Shama Parveen
Ex.PW13/C, Seizure memos Ex.PW 13/D and 13/F and arrest memo of
appellant Shama Parveen Ex.PW13/B. The aforesaid witness was cross-
examined by counsel for appellant at length but nothing relevant has come
out in the cross-examination which makes the seizure of broken wicket, hair
stuck on the wall, blood stained concrete as well as some portion of concrete
as sample, cot made of iron pipes seized vide aforesaid memos,
unbelievable. 29. The above evidence cannot be rejected on the ground that no public
witnesses were joined at the time of investigation at the house of Shama
Parveen. It is a matter of common knowledge that public persons are not
usually prepared to join the police proceedings out of fear that they would be
made to attend the court repeatedly. In State of NCT of Delhi v. Sunil and
Anr. : 2000 VIII AD (SC) 613, a plea was taken that there was no
independent witness of the recovery made by the police pursuant to the
statement of the accused while in police custody. The following
observations made by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in this regard are
pertinent: The evidence of police officials as discussed above inspires confidence.
There is no serious contradiction in the statement of IO Inspector Iqbal
Mohd PW18A and other police officials i.e., SI Tanvir Ashraf PW17,
Constable Kamini PW13, Constable Ram Pal PW11. Under these
circumstances, no adverse inference can be drawn in the non-joining of
public witnesses. 30. From the evidence discussed above, it stands established that blood
stains were found on the wall of the room in the house of deceased which
were covered with five paper sheets seized vide memo Ex. PW13/E and
before covering, the wall was painted with paint seized vide memo Ex.
PW13/F. Five sheets of fancy papers Ex. P-5 which were pasted on the wall
of the room to hide blood stains, broken wicket Ex.P-6, hair stuck on the
wall, sample of concrete from the wall having blood stains which were
seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW13/D were sent to CFSL for examination.
As per expert‟s report Ex.PW 18/A which is proved on record by
Mr.B.C.Purkait, PW-18, Junior Scientific Officer, CFSL, the same gave CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 25 of 32 positive tests for human blood. The CFSL report Ex. PW18/C-1 of blood
stained hair found on the wall of the room of Shama Parveen and scalp hair
which were handed over to SI Tanvir Ashraf PW17 by Dr.Gaurav Vinod
Jain PW2, were found to be of the same origin and also shows presence of
blood group `B‟ which was the blood group of deceased. 31. The entire evidence discussed above categorically shows that incident
had taken place in the house of the deceased. The above evidence also
corroborates the evidence of child witness Afsar Karim PW4 that the
incident had taken place in the house who has also deposed in detail the role
of appellants in the murder of his father. There is no explanation by
appellant Shama Parveen as to how blood stains were there on the wall of
the room and as to why the same were covered with papers seized vide
memo Ex.13/E. In view of the judgment in Trimukh Maroti Kirkan v.
State of Maharashtra reported in 2006(10) SCC 681, burden was on the
appellant to explain the same. Non-explanation by her makes it a highly
incriminating piece of evidence against her. 32. The investigation, as discussed above was partly videographed by
calling Constable Ram Pal PW11 at the spot. He has proved on record the
videotape Ex.P1. The said witness in cross-examination has deposed
that he was free by 10 a.m. Learned counsel for appellant has
contended that videotape Ex.P1 is manipulated as SI Tanvir Ashraf
PW17, Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A have stated that they had
reached the house of the deceased between 11.45-12.00 noon where
appellant Shama Parveen was interrogated and thereafter she was arrested.
Thereafter, further investigation was done. Some discrepancy in time has
come in the statements of aforesaid PWs and that of Constable Ram Pal CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 26 of 32 PW11. The discrepancy of time in the statement of Ram Pal PW11 has
come due to lapse of time. The videography was done on 14th February,
2002 whereas evidence of this witness was recorded in the court on 29th
July, 2004 i.e., after a gap of more than 2 years. The IO PW18A and
SI Ashraf PW17 who were present at the spot have categorically
deposed that they had reached the spot between 11.45-12.00 noon,
thereafter, a videographer was called. Considering the overall evidence on
record, it cannot be said that the videotape Ex.P1 is manipulated. 33. It may also be mentioned that Constable Ram Pal PW11 has also
deposed that after video recording of present case, some other Constable had
done the video recording on 17th February, 2002 in a programme in DCP
Office and by mistake covered some of the portion recorded by him relating
to appellant Shama Parveen was destroyed. We have also seen some of the
proceedings of the videotape Ex.P-1 in court. The tapes show that the wall
in the room i.e., place of occurrence was covered with papers and papers
were being removed by appellant Shama Parveen and the blood stains were
noticed on the wall. 34. As per evidence on record that appellant Tauhid Raza was
apprehended on the pointing out of appellant Shama Parveen on 14th
February, 2002 from a gali outside the house of appellant Shama Parveem.
It has also come on record that both of them were neighbours. The personal
search of Tauhid Raza was conducted by Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A
vide memo Ex.PW17/B in the presence of SI Tanvir Aashraf PW-17 and
Head Constable Manoj and was arrested vide arrest memo Ex.PW17/A by
Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A in the presence of aforesaid witnesses.
Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A and SI Tanvir Aashraf PW-17 have been CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 27 of 32 cross-examined at length but their testimony in this regard is not demolished
in cross-examination. Particular time of arrest is not mentioned in the arrest
memo. In cross-examination, IO PW18A has stated that appellant Tauhid
Raza was arrested at about 2-2.15 p.m. SI Tanvir Ashraf PW-17 has also
stated in cross-examination that appellant Tauhid Raza was arrested at about
2.00 or 2.30 p.m. Under these circumstances, time of arrest is proved. 35. Further case of the prosecution is that appellant Tauhid Raza had
made a disclosure statement Ex.PW17/C to IO Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW
18A in the presence of SI Tanvir Ashraf PW17 and Head Constable Manoj
and took them to his house bearing no. 162 in the same gali and opened the
lock on the door with a key and took them to a room and brought a sword
Ex. P-2 lying on the ledge which had blood stains. The same was measured
by IO Inspector Iqbal Mohd. PW 18A who prepared its sketch. Thereafter,
he kept the sword Ex. P-2 in a pulanda and sealed the pulanda with a seal
IMK and seized vide memo Ex.PW17/E. 36. It may be noticed that as per personal search of appellant Tauhid Raza
conducted vide Ex.PW17/B, a wrist watch make „Ricoh‟ having white chain
and a driving licence were recovered. No key is alleged to have been
recovered from him on his personal search. Then, how was a key taken out
of his pant pocket with which he had opened the door of his house to get the
sword Ex. P-2 recovered. The prosecution has failed to explain the same. In
these circumstances, the recovery of sword Ex.P-2 at the instance of Tauhid
Raza does not inspire confidence as such the same is not taken into
consideration. 37. The further case of the prosecution is that appellant Tauhid Raza had
led IO PW18A SI Tanvir Ashraf and HC Manoj to Tahir Pur Nala and had CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 28 of 32 pointed out a spot from where 12 articles which include pillow covers, bed
sheet, shirt, muffler, broken wicket etc. All the articles, except broken
wicket, were seized and kept in a jute bag and which was sealed with the
seal of IMK. SI Tanvir Ashraf has also deposed in the same manner as has
been deposed by IO PW-18A. The recovery proceedings were got
videographed vide video tape Ex.P1. Videotape Ex.P.1 was displayed in the
court. The same shows that Nala is in a crowded place and clothes are
lying superficially in it. The alleged place of recovery is an open place and
is accessible to all. After seeing the display of proceedings vide videotape
Ex.P1, the alleged recoveries at the instance of appellant Tauhid Raza also
do not inspire confidence. 38. Further evidence of prosecution is that Sharavan Kumar PW-9 owner
of TSR No. DL-IR 7324 Ex. P1 deposed that he had been living at F-2/377,
Sunder Nagri since 1990 where both the appellants were also living. As per
his evidence, appellant Tauhid Raza @ Guddu came to him on 10.02.2002
and had taken TSR Ex.P1 on rent in the morning. On that very day, he
returned the same at 6 pm. On 11th February, 2002, he again took the TSR
and returned the same in the evening. On 12th February, 2002, he again took
the TSR but did not return in the evening and returned the same on the next
morning and also paid the rent. He told that his uncle was admitted in
hospital. On 13.02.2002, appellant Tauhid Raza @ Guddu came with co-
accused Khalil and took TSR Ex.P1 at about 6.00 p.m. and returned in the
next morning and paid rent of ` 100/- and on that day he was perturbed. On
enquiry he told that his uncle had died. After about two hours, he noticed
that there were blood spots on the plastic curtain of TSR. He thought that
Tauhid Raza might have carried meat. On that very day, he came to know
that one Shamim r/o N-block, Sunder Nagri had been murdered and Tauhid CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 29 of 32 Raza @ Guddu had been apprehended. Thereafter, he took the TSR Ex.P1 to
the police station along with his brother PW-8, Vikram Yadav and handed over
the same to the police and had shown them blood stain curtain. He further
deposed that police officials had cut the piece of curtain having blood stains
and seized the same vide memo Ex.PW8/DA. Vikram Yadav PW-8 is the
brother of Shrawan Kumar PW9. He has also corroborated the version of PW-
9 in taking over of TSR on different dates by Tauhid Raza as is deposed by
Shrawan Kumar PW9. He has also deposed having accompanied his brother
PW-9 to the police station with TSR and where they had shown blood stains on
the curtain of the TSR Ex.P1. In his presence police had seized TSR Ex.P1 as
well as curtain Ex.PX. Nothing relevant has come on record in the cross-
examination of the aforesaid witnesses by which it can be said that TSR was
not taken by appellant and that there were no blood stains on the curtain of
TSR. As per CFSL report Ex. PW18/C-1 blood group „B‟ was detected on
piece of curtain Ex. PX of TSR Ex.P1 which is the blood group of deceased.
The above evidence also supports the deposition of Afsar Karim PW4. 39. The prosecution has produced Madan Singh PW-3 to prove the joint
photograph Ex.PW3/A of the appellants. Perusal of record shows that learned
counsel for appellants have not been given opportunity to cross-examine the
said witnesses. Accordingly, the photograph Ex. PW3/A is not taken as a piece
of evidence against appellants. Ignoring the said evidence, the evidence of
Master Afsar Karim PW4 clearly shows that appellant Tauhid Raza used to
visit his house to meet his mother. He has categorically deposed that Tauhid
Raza used to come soon after his father left the house and used to leave shortly
before his father was about to return. He has also deposed that his father used
to leave between 6.00 a.m. to 8.00 a.m. and used to return at about 8.00
p.m./9.00 p.m. Appellant Tauhid Raza used to take lunch in his house and used
to tell him to address him as papa. His mother also used to tell him not to tell CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 30 of 32 his father about visits of Tauhid Raza. On his return from school, his mother
used to send them for purchasing goods from market. All this shows that both
the appellants had an intimate relationship with each other. The same
constitutes motive of the crime also. The evidence on record also shows that
prior to incident accused Tauhid Raza had taken scooter seized vide memo Ex.
PW17/article 12 of deceased from him which was found parked near dead
body. He had also taken TSR Ex. P-1 on rent from Shrawan Kumar PW9 on
13.02.2002. The above evidence on record including the evidence showing the
manner in which the murder was committed and thereafter the body was
removed from the place of occurrence by keeping it in a TSR Ex. P-1 with the
help of Shama Parveen clearly shows that there was there was conspiracy
between both the appellants to commit the murder of deceased. 40. It is well settled that in the offence of criminal conspiracy, it is difficult
to get direct evidence. It is a difficult task to prove the actual terms of
conspiracy. Some prima facie evidence leading to a reasonable belief that two
or more persons had conspired together is sufficient. Conspirators do not
discuss their plans openly. Privacy and secrecy are its basic elements. Thus,
conspiracy can be proved by the evidence of surrounding circumstances and
conduct of the accused persons before the occurrence as well as after the
alleged commission of offence. In the present case, as discussed above, the
evidence on record clearly establishes that there was a criminal conspiracy
between appellant Tauhid Raza and Shama Parveen to commit the murder of
deceased. The learned defence counsel is not right in contending that the
substantive offence of criminal conspiracy has not been established. There is a
clear finding of the learned ASJ that the evidence on record establishes that
there was criminal conspiracy between Tauhid Raza and Shama Parveen to
commit the murder of deceased. There is no illegality if the separate
sentencing is not recorded by the learned trial court. In view of the above discussion, the contention of the learned counsel for
appellants that appellants cannot be convicted under Section 302/201 with the
aid of Section 120-B IPC is rejected. 41. Further, the appellant Shama Parveen has failed to explain in her Section
313 Cr.P.C. statement as to how the blood stains were there on the wall of the
deceased. In her Section 313 Cr.P.C. statement, she has stated that the
deceased was having some property dispute with his brother in his native
village due to which she has been falsely implicated and in connivance with the
police the brothers of the deceased had involved her in the present case so as to
prevent her from taking share in the property at the native village. However, no
evidence is led in defence to substantiate the same. Further, the particulars of
the property in respect of which it is alleged that deceased was having dispute
with brothers is also not proved. Vague allegations have been made by her in
this regard without giving the necessary particulars and as such her statement
even be understood as having probablised her defence. The learned Trial Judge
has rightly rejected the same. Accused Tauhid Raza has only stated that he has
been falsely implicated. But, this is of no use as the prosecution has proved its
case beyond reasonable doubt and the defence has not been able to counter it. In view of the above discussion, we find no merit in the appeals and the
same are dismissed. VEENA BIRBAL, J

 BADAR DURREZ AHMED, J
 th
September 6 , 2011
ssb/kks CRL.A. Nos. 385/2009 & 562/2009 Page 32 of 32