1.1 (Brief introduction to case of parties)­ Succinctly, prosecution
case is that in the year 2005 (a) Hargulab Singh (since approver), (b)
accused Rakesh Kumar (a public servant), Director General, ICCR, (c)
accused Shiv Kumar, (d) accused Gurbhej Singh and (e) accused
Balvinder Bawa hatched criminal conspiracy, consequent thereto a
Bhangra group by name 'Mehak Punjab Di' of Leader of Hargulab Singh
was applied, it was annexed with four photographs, visiting card, entry
identity card pass of Jallandhar Doordarshan, then further
supplemented with forged, created, fake photographs, staged VCDs,
album, news­clippings, commendation certificates (purported to have
been issued by many religious & social/cultural organisations) and then
it was got empaneled with ICCR, New Delhi, by bribing & other
considerations to accused/public servant by Hargulab Singh through
other accused Shiv Kumar Sharma. Then, 15 persons under that group
'Mehak Punjab Di' were sent on official passports and expenses of
ICCR to Berlin, Germany for performance as artists that too creating
hurriedly deemed to be requirement there. 9 persons out of them had
defected in Germany, which was already planned by accused persons
& agreed amount was also paid to Rakesh Kumar through Shiv Kumar
but remaining 6 persons came back India. Those defected 9 persons were ­(i) Hargulab Singh, (non­artist,
leader, later he came back India, since approver). (ii) Randeep Singh,
special­able person (non­artist, he is son of Hargulab Singh) (iii)
Satnam Singh (non­artist, his actual name is Sukhdeep Singh alias

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 2 of156 ]
 Saba, he is son of accused Balvinder Bawa; his application form was
filled in the name of Satnam Singh but of his actual photograph), (iv)
Gurmeet Kaur alias Sonam Gill (she is wife of Sukhdeep Singh and
daughter­in­law of Balwinder Kaur),(v) Satnam Singh alias Pappi (non­
artist), he is relative of Balwinder Bawa (vi) Amanpreet Singh (non­
artist) (vii) Jagdeep Singh (non­artist), (viii) Prabhjot Singh (non­artist)
[the last three were inducted in group by accused Shiv Kumar Sharma]
and (ix) Aman Jeet Singh, [a relative of accused Gurbhej Singh, he was
inducted in group at instance of accused Gurbhej Singh & Shiv Kumar
Sharma], they had paid amount through Shiv Kumar to Rakesh Kumar
to facilitate them in the board and then defection. The other six members in the group visited Berlin, Germany
and came back India are­ (I) Shiv Kumar (since accused), as
Manager/non­artist (inducted at instance accused Rakesh Kumar), (II)
Sukhvinder Singh/non­artist, technician/PW57 (inducted by PW12 Ms
Kehkansha Tyagi) (III) Pawan Kumar/Artist/PW3 (IV) Mandeep
Singh/Artist (V) Jaspreet Singh Nokewal/Artist and (VI)
Raji/Artist/PW55. Since the group Mehak Punjab Di was registered with
ICCR but its registration was got done on the basis of forged and
created fake document vis a vis the group of 15 members were sent to
Berlin, Germany, out of which 9 persons had defected (but one of them
PW4 Hargulab Singh came/sent back India later­on). However, it had
cheated/caused wrongful losses of Rs.6,79,973/­ (i.e.Rs.5,00,940/­ air­
fares + Rs.1,50,937/­ dearness allowances + Rs.28,096/­ of hotel
accommodation & other miscellaneous expenses) to Government
exchequer. Since accused Rakesh Kumar was public servant

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 3 of156 ]
 appropriate permission was taken to register and investigate the case.
The appropriate sanction u/s 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act,
1988 to prosecute him was also accorded by President of India. 1.2 On the other side, the accused Rakesh Kumar 's case is that he is
innocent, he followed the established conventional official norms, the
selection process was within the domain of experts vis a vis he has no
role or influence decision for empanelment of Mehak Punjab Di; the
allegations of criminal misconduct or paying the amount are false and
fabricated. He has no role of defection of 9 persons. There has been
official Plan of Action, accordingly it was acted upon. Accused Shiv
Kumar took ground of plea of alibi, particularly that on alleged dates of
filing of application on 27.4.2005 or filling in up of applications for formal
passport on 5.9.2005, he was in his office in the Punjab Agriculture
University, Ludhiana, being a government servant (Draftsman), he is not
involved in any wrong. CBI officer has forcibly entered into his house,
he was brought in custody and his articles were removed from his
house without process of law. Accused Gurbhej Singh's case is that
neither there is any admissible evidence against him nor his presence
at office of ICCR or Zimindara Dhaba at any point of time to cull out any
allegations against him and he never remained associated with any
group. Similarly, Balvinder Bawa's case is that neither her presence is
established at any place to make out case of conspiracy or getting the
commendation certificates or newspaper bulletin or photographs nor
any incriminating were recovered from her residence as CBI never
visited her at residence. Their common stand is that it is all brain child of
Hargulab Singh to implicate the accused persons, particularly he
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 4 of156 ]
 wanted to rid of allegations against him and to save himself under route
and the shield of approver, he bargained immunity to implicate accused
persons. 1.3 This introduction is given to reflect at glance case of each parties
since there is voluminous multi­folder documentary records, each
document/folder having many layers of evidence. 2.1 (Matrix of case as set out in police reports) - There is main
charge­sheet followed by supplementary charge­sheet. The
supplementary police report is accompanying handwriting expert
opinion. The main police report was against five accused, out of them
Hargulab Singh became State witness by way of tender of pardon. The
investigation has been kept open by the investigating agency in respect
of eight persons, who defected from Berlin, Germany and they are yet
to be investigated. The facts discovered in investigation have been set
out in the police reports. 2.2 Rakesh Kumar, member Indian Foreign Services, was posted on
deputation as Director General, Indian Council for Cultural Relations
(ICCR), I.P. Estate, Azad Bhawan, New Delhi from Ministry of External
Affairs, New Delhi from 19.08.2003 to 12.09.2005. In order to promote
Indian culture abroad, the cultural groups/artists of divergent cultural
fields get them empaneled with ICCR. Then empaneled groups/artists
are sent abroad as per plan of action for ICCR to promote Indian
culture. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 5 of156 ]
 In the year 2005, Hargulab Singh learned that Shiv Kumar, a
draftsman of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, could manage to
send people abroad but for a monetary consideration. Hargulab Singh is
a farmer in Village Ladhian Khurd, District Ludhiana, Punjab and he was
searching opportunity to send his handicapped son Randeep Singh
abroad. Then Hargulab Singh contacted Shiv Kumar Sharma (through
Constable Gurbhej Singh of Punjab Armed Police, since he is confidant
of Shiv Kumar Sharma). Shiv Kumar Sharma conspired with Hargulab
Singh to send Randeep Singh abroad through Rakesh Kumar, DG,
ICCR, since Shiv Kumar Sharma had closed proximity. To achieve it,
Shiv Kumar Sharma confident to Hargulab Singh to form a Bhangra
Group for this purposes, who in turn conspired with Balwinder Bawa @
Bawa, a local Punjabi Singer, she also agreed to provide the artists and
other logistic support for the formation of Bhangra group. 2.3 Therefore in March 2005, Hargulab Singh alongwith Shiv
Kumar Sharma and Constable Gurbhej Singh visited office of ICCR,
New Delhi. Shiv Kumar Sharma had introduced Hargulab Singh as his
friend to Rakesh Kumar, Director General, ICCR. It was discussed
about empanelmengt of a Bhangra group in the name of Hargulab
Singh. Hargulab Singh informed Rakesh Kumar, on inquiry, that he
does not know Bhangra nor he had any dance group. Rakesh Kumar
forwarded Hargulab Singh to Kehkashan Tyagi, Programme Officer,
ICCR, for ascertaining the formalities of empanelment. Hargulab Singh
had photographs in album but photographs were not depicting
Hargulab Singh nor of his performance, he was advised by Ms
Kehkashan Tyagi that the group cannot be empaneled. Then, Rakesh
[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 6 of156 ]
 Kumar asked Hargulab Singh to bring certificates and photographs in
the name of group, so that it could be empaneled. While moving back to
Ludhiana, Shiv Kumar Sharma talked Hargulab Singh that a group will
be empaneled in his name but amount of Rs. 1 lakh is to be paid to
Rakesh Kumar. Hargulab Singh handed over Rs.1 lakh to Shiv Kumar
Sharma at Ludhiana in order to get empaneled his group with ICCR. 2.4 It was 27.04.2005, they [Shiv Kumar Sharma , Const. Gurbhej
Singh and Hargulab Singh] came in the office of Rakesh Kumar, where
Shiv Kumar Sharma gave that Rs. 1 lakh to Rakesh Kumar during
presence of Hargulab Singh for the empanelment of the group.
Hargulab Singh was not having any Bhangra dance group. However, he
furnished an application on 27.04.2005 under his signature for
empanelment of a Punjabi folk dance group "Mehak Punjab Di", duly
supported by 4 photographs of dance group, a visiting card of "Mehak
Punjab Di" and entry card of Doordarshan Kendra, Jallandhar. It was in
pursuance all understandings and the amount paid. This application
form was filled in by Shri Sunil Bhalla, Programme Officer, ICCR, since
he was asked so but the particulars were filled in as per information
given by Hargulab Singh. Since it was advised by Rakesh Kumar,
therefore, accused Hargulab Singh alongwith Balwinder Bawa @ Bawa
got prepared photo album of performance "Mehak Punjab Di" recorded
at two marriage palaces at Rahon Road, Ludhiana, two press release of
Punjabi weekly 'Manpreet Bulletin' of ante dates 8.5.2003 and
26.8.2004, and commendation certificates of many social and religious
organisations [namely 31st National Games, Punjab 2001; Mela Pauna
Hari Da 11­15th April 2005; Samaj Sudhar Committee Mukerian; Shahid
[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 7 of156 ]
 Dilbagh Singh Yadgari Sabhachar Mela]. In addition, VCDs were also
got prepared. The said record of photograph­album, VCDs, copies of
certificates, press clipping were furnished in the office of ICCR in
support of application after about one month from 27.4.2005 of
application for empanelment. However, such record of certificates,
photos, press clippings, VCDs were discovered to be created and
forged. 2.5 Shiv Kumar Sharma and Hargulab Singh had been regularly
visiting Rakesh Kumar for empanelment of "Mehak Punjab Di". In their
visit in May 2005, Rakesh Kumar suggested Shiv Kumar that at the
maximum, there could be three persons who can defect from the group
to the foreign country. They could be Amanjeet Singh, brother­in­law of
Const. Gurbhej Singh , Randeep Singh s/o Hargulab Singh and
Satnam Singh @ Puppi, a relative of Balwinder Bawa @ Bawa. Shiv
Kumar Sharma, Hargulab Singh and Balwinder Bawa @ Bawa also
initiated training of Bhangra/dance for the members of group at Punjabi
Bhawan, Ludhiana, under the guidance of Coach Tehal Singh Kheeva,
a Bhangra artist of Ludhiana. Shiv Kumar Sharma had also viewed
training sessions to monitor the progress of the training. Shiv Kumar
Sharma asked Hargulab Singh to collect the air fare from the genuine
artists for visiting abroad and Rs.7.5 lakhs each from those persons,
who intend to defect from Germany. Shiv Kumar Sharma conceded to
request of Hargulab Singh to reduce this amount to Rs. 5 lakh for his
son Randeep Singh, since Hargulab Singh had already incurred
expenditure for the formation of this group. Moreover, Balwinder Bawa
@ Bawa also started exploring the persons to take them to Germany
[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 8 of156 ]
 and she contacted Jaswant Singh Cheema, Ajeet Singh, Jaspal Singh
r/o Talwandi Kuka and Amarjit Singh r/o Amritsar. She also collected
Rs. 7.5 lakhs from Jaspal Singh, Rs. 85,000/­ from Amarjit Singh r/o
Amritsar for sending their children namely Satnam Singh @ Puppi and
Satnam Singh @ Kaka abroad. She also collected Rs. 4 lakhs from
Jaswant Singh Cheema and Rs.50,000/­ from Ajeet Singh @ Jeeta
Pawar for sending them abroad. She also collected Rs. 1.25 lakhs from
the artists Mandeep Singh, Gagandeep Singh and Jaspreet Singh
Nokewal for sending them with the dance group. She handed over Rs.
7.5 lakhs to Shiv Kumar Sharma for Satnam Singh @ Puppi and Rs. 5
lakhs for her son Sukhdeep Singh @ Saba @ Satnam Singh. Hargulab
Singh also paid Rs.5 Lakhs to Shiv Kumar Sharma in two installments
of Rs. 2.5 lakhs each for sending his son Randeep Singh abroad. Ct.
Gurbhej Singh also paid Rs. 5 lakhs to Shiv Kumar Sharma for his
relative/brother­in­law Amanjit Singh. It was end of July 2005, when
Hargulab Singh and Shiv Kumar Sharma met Rakesh Kumar in his
office at ICCR, New Delhi to expedite empanelment of Group and for
sending it abroad. Rakesh Kumar assured them that the group will be
sent abroad before his repatriation from ICCR. 2.6 On 24.08.2005 Sh. M.S. Grover prepared the Expert Sub­
Committee minutes for seeking approval of President, ICCR, however,
the said note was replaced by another note of 25.08.2005 by Sh. R.M.
Aggarwal under the instructions of Rakesh Kumar and in the note of
25.08.2005, there was no forwarding of the note for approval by
President, ICCR but it was finally for approval by Rakesh Kumar, DG.
Even the name of Ms. Kanak Chaturvedi of Hindustani Light Music and
[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 9 of156 ]
 another name of Ms. Kalpana Naik of Oddisa Dance were approved
despite their rejection by the experts. Moreover, in order to avail the
hospitality of accused Hargulab Singh, accused Shiv Kumar and
Rakesh Kumar visited Ludhiana on the pretext of viewing the
performance of Mehak Punjab Di, Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi had also
reached Ludhiana to view the performance of Mehak Punjab Di.
Hargulab Singh had made arrangement in Zimindara Dhaba for the
performance of group of Mehak Punjab Di and also extended hospitality
to Rakesh Kumar and Kehkashan Tyagi. Kehkashan Tyagi was got
boarded in Hotel Maharaja. Hargulab Singh had shopping to Kehkashan
Tyagi. The official letter dated 31.08.2005 of empanelment of Mehak
Punjab Di was personally delivered by Kehkashan Tyagi to Hargulab
Singh, which was subsequently recovered from the house of Hargulab
Singh. [The official letter of empanelment of Mehak Punjab Di was
officially posted on 09.09.2005, it was received back to ICCR office on
19.09.2005]. 2.7 It was evening of 01.09.2005, Rakesh Kumar, Shiv Kumar
Sharma and Kehkashan Tyagi reached the venue Zimidara Dhaba/hotel
to view the performance of the group Mehak Punjab Di. The
performance of the group was not found satisfactory for want of proper
stage, costumes and Bhangra dress. It was decided to watch the
performance of the group on next day/2.9.2005. While coming back
from Zimidara Dhaba/Hotel, accused Rakesh Kumar through Shiv
Kumar Sharma asked Hargulab Singh to arrange two girls from the
group for their night stay with Rakesh Kumar. Then Hargulab Singh and
Balwinder Bawa @ Bawa sent two artists 'A' & "N' ( name with­held,
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 10 of156 ]
 they are PW9 and PW10) with Rakesh Kumar and Shiv Kumar Sharma
at Hotel Classic Retreat, Ludhiana. Shiv Kumar Sharma tried to seek
sexual favour from 'N' in the room of Hotel Classic Retreat, Ludhiana
but he did not succeed on resistance of the girl. However, Rakesh
Kumar had sexual favour from 'A' in Hotel Classic Retreat, Ludhiana, to
make favour selection of the group for abroad. On the morning of
02.09.2005, Ct. Gurbhej Singh picked up those two girls from Hotel
Classic Retreat and brought to Hargulab Singh and Balwinder Bawa at
Sherpur Chowk. On 02.09.2005, there was performance of the group
"Mehak Punjab Di", it was reviewed by Rakesh Kumar, Shiv Kumar
Sharma, Kehkashan Tyagi and others. Kehkashan Tyagi was asked by
Rakesh Kumar that only those persons would go abroad with the group,
whose names would be given by Shiv Kumar Sharma. In the evening,
Shiv Kumar Sharma called Hargulab Singh at his residence and
informed him that the group had been selected and will be sent out to
Germany soon. Hargulab Singh was also asked by Shiv Kumar
Sharma to arrange and pay the balance payment. Since Balwinder
Bawa's name was in the list given by Shiv Kumar Sharma, then on
03.09.2005, Balwinder Bawa and Hargulab Singh went the gas agency
of Shiv Kumar Sharma to convince him to include name of Balwinder
Bawa in the group visiting abroad. When Shiv Kumar Sharma did not
agree, then Balwinder Bawa threatened to produce those two artists
girls before the police of their sexually exploitation by Rakesh Kumar. Shiv Kumar Sharma talked to Rakesh Kumar on telephone, Rakesh
Kumar directed him to include names of son and daughter­in­law of
Balwinder Bawa in the group, instead of Balwinder Bawa but amount of

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 11 of156 ]
 Rs. 7.5 lakhs was to be paid for leaving them abroad. Shiv Kumar
Sharma had also inducted three more non­artists persons ­ namely
Prabhjot Singh, Amanpreet Singh and Jagdeep Singh ­ in the group.
On 04.09.2005, Shiv Kumar Sharma called Hargulab Singh and others
near the gate of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, for the
balance payment and to collect application forms for issuance of official
passports. Hargulab Singh gave the balance of Rs. 2.5 lakhs to Shiv
Kumar Sharma for sending his son Randeep Singh. Sukhchain Singh
(brother­in­law of Hargulab Singh) paid Rs. 30,000/­ to Hargulab
Singh , who, in turn, gave it the same to Shiv Kumar Sharma for air
tickets. The details of money received by Shiv Kumar Sharma from
those persons find mentioned in his slip pad recovered later­on during
search. On 04.09.2005 itself, the ordinary passports and partially filled
applications of the members of the dance group were given to Shiv
Kumar Sharma at the Chowk, Ludhiana, for issuance of official
passports. As per instructions of Shiv Kumar Sharma, Hargulab Singh
wrote name "Satnam Singh" in the application of Sukhdeep Singh @
Saba for issuance of official passport. Shiv Kumar Sharma then affixed
the photograph of Sukhdeep Singh on the said application. Shiv Kumar
Sharma also showed a briefcase (to Hargulab Singh and Balwinder
Bawa) that he was going to pay Rs. 25 lakhs to Rakesh Kumar. 2.8 On 05.09.2005, Shiv Kumar Sharma took Rs. 25 lakhs for making
payment to Rakesh Kumar. The applications for issue of official
passports were filled in by Shiv Kumar Sharma and Ms Kehkashan
Tyagi in the dining room of Rakesh Kumar. Shiv Kumar Sharma made
telephone calls to Hargulab Singh and Balwinder Bawa from the office
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 12 of156 ]
 telephone of Rakesh Kumar to seek/confirm details of identification
marks of group members. On 7/8­09­2005, Ct. Gurbhej Singh collected
photographs and VCDs of the performance done on 02.09.2005 at
Zimidara Dhaba/hotel and delivered it to Mrs. Kehkashan Tyagi in her
office at ICCR New Delhi for publicity purposes. However, the few persons, who had paid the money but were not
in the list to sent abroad are Sukhchain Singh, Gaganeep Singh,
Satnam Singh @ Kaka S/o Amarjit Singh, Jaswant Singh Cheema and
Ajeet Singh @ Jeeta Pawar. The final composition of the 15 selected
members of the dance group are ­ (A) 5 members­ Amanjeet Singh
[brother­in­law of Gurbhej Singh], Amanpreet Singh, Jagdeep Singh,
Prabhjot Singh. (known of Shiv Kumar Sharma) and Shiv
Kumar/Manager; (B) 2 members ­ Hargulab Singh and his son
Randeep Singh; (C)3 members ­ Sukhdeep Singh @ Saba @ Satnam
Singh, Gurmeet Bawa @ Sonam Gill and Satnam Singh @ Puppi, [the
son, daughter­in­law and relative respectively of Balwinder Bawa]; (D) 1
member ­ Sukhwinder Singh/Technician [from Delhi included in the
group by Kehkashan Tyagi] and (E) 4 members ­ Pawan Kumar, Ms
Raji, Mandeep Singh and Jaspreet Singh Nokewal [all four professional
Bhangra artists]. 2.9 On the eve of visit of Chief of Air Staff, India, to Germany, a
dinner was to be hosted by the Indian Embassy, Berlin on 14.09.2005.
The German side had already invited and it was decided to hold a brief
cultural program during this function. Mr. Rajshree Ramesh, an Indian
Bharat Natyam dancer, residing in Berlin was engaged to give a

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 13 of156 ]
 performance of about 20 minutes. However, Rakesh Kumar , created a
false requirement for the performance of "Mahak Punjab Di" in Germany
on 14th and 15th September 2005 by prevailing upon the officials of
Indian Embassy at Berlin, Germany namely Shri Sudhanshu Pandey,
Director, Tagore Centre, Berlin and Shri Amit Dasgupta, the then
Charge d' Affairs of Indian Embassy, Berlin. As per Plan of Action of
ICCR for the year 2005­06 and correspondence with Indian Embassy,
Berlin, it has been established that there was no requirement of such
group in Berlin, in September 2005. However, Rakesh Kumar for the
purpose to facilitate defect of group members, for a monetary
consideration and other favour, directed to send a 15 member group of
incompetent, inexperienced and untrained Punjabi fold dancers to
Germany on Government sponsorship before his transfer from ICCR.
Sukhdeep Singh @ Saba was allowed to obtain official passport in the
name of Satnam Singh and was allowed to travel with the group on his
fake passport by way of impersonation. All the necessary requirement
and formalities inclusive of administrative arrangements of official
passport, political clearance, visa and flight booking etc. for 15
members of the group was done in hurry from 05.09.2005 and all the
circumstances are showing that Rakesh Kumar intentionally shown
official favour in favour of the group which was led by Hargulab Singh.
The letter dated 05.09.2005 by Rakesh Kumar in this regard is reflecting
the intentions and deliberations of accused Rakesh Kumar. Moreover,
there is also undue favour shown in favour of Shiv Kumar Sharma by
sending him as a group manager, particularly Shiv Kumar Sharma was
neither a performer nor official of ICCR, he was accommodated in a

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 14 of156 ]
 hotel at Berlin for which he was not entitled for. On 11.09.2005
Kehkashan Tyagi included Sukhwinder Singh as technician in the
group. It was 12.09.2005 when Rakesh Kumar relinquished the charge
of DG, ICCR on his transfer to Ministry of External Affairs, however, on
reaching Berlin, Hargulab Singh's son Randeep went away from the
airport itself with Palvinder Singh (brother of Hargulab Singh). Thence
other 8 members of group had also defected from Berlin, Germany and
remaining came India. 3.1 (Charge) - All present four accused namely Rakesh Kumar,
Shiv Kumar Sharma, and Ms. Balwinder Bawa @ Bawa, Gurbhej Singh
have been charged u/s 120B IPC r/w sections 420 , 468 and 471 IPC for
allegations that accused no. 1 Rakesh Kumar, being a public servant,
while working as Director General of Indian Council of Cultural
Relations(ICCR), accused no. 2 Shiv Kumar Sharma, while working as
draftsman with Punjab Agricultural University, accused no. 3 Smt.
Balwinder Bawa @ Bawa, a local singer and accused no. 4 Gurbhej
Singh, Constable while working with Punjab Armed Police alongwith
Hargulab Singh (who had turned "approver") on or about March, 2005
onward had entered into a criminal conspiracy by having agreed to do
an illegal act of "human trafficking" for sending Amarjeet Singh,
Amanpreet Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Prabjot Singh, Randeep Singh,
Sukheep Singh @ Saba @ Satnam Singh, Gurmeet Bawa @ Sonam
Gill, Satnam Singh @ Puppi (who could not be arrested till date) that too
on "government expenses". [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 15 of156 ]
 It was also alleged that in order to achieve this objective
of criminal conspiracy, accused no. 2 Shiv Kumar Sharma using his
association with accused no. 1 Rakesh Kumar had agreed to act as
conduit between him, a public servant and other co­accused and in
furtherance of same, accused no. 2, Shiv Kumar Sharma, accused no.
3 Balwinder Bawa and accused no. 4 Gubej Singh had included other
eight co­accused persons (who could not be arrested) in a fake cultural
group namely "Mehak Punjab Di" knowing and having reasons to
believe that none of them is a genuine artist, against illegal monetary
consideration and with a sole motive to facilitate their defection in
Germany, a foreign land. It further alleged that in order to achieve the objective of said
criminal conspiracy, accused no. 1 Rakesh Kumar and accused no. 2
Shiv Kumar Sharma, instigated and abetted co­accused Balwinder
Bawa @ Bawa to forge and fabricate supporting documents i.e.
commendation certificates of various religious and cultural
organisations, advertisement in newspaper bulletin, photo album and
VCDs, showing fake performances of the so­called bhangra group,
which she did, alongwith Hargulab Singh (approver). Thereafter,
accused no. 2 Shiv Kumar Sharma and accused no. 4 Gurbhej Singh
then used these forged documents fraudulently and dishonestly as
genuine and accused no.1 Rakesh Kumar in furtherance of the criminal
conspiracy, aided and abetted his other co­accused persons, criminally
misconducted himself by abusing his official position for obtaining
pecuniary advantage for himself and his other­accused in the form of
money and sexual favour from the girls provided to him by co­accused

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 16 of156 ]
 Balwinder Bawa, had got the group namely "Mehak Punjab Di" and for the purposes of getting this group empaneled with ICCR, he had
used fake and forged commendation certificates of various religious and
social organizations, VCDs, press clippings and photo albums by
annexing them with the application for empanelmengt, knowing or
having reasons to believe the same to be forged documents, and have
dishonestly and fraudulently used them as genuine. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 18 of156 ]
 Further, it was alleged against him that during the aforesaid
period knowing that he was neither an artist nor an official working with
ICCR had included himself alongwith other non­artists i.e. co­accused
(who have not been arrested till date), got a fake group consisting of
non­artists in the name of Mehak Punjab Di empaneled with ICCR and
facilitated the visit of the members of this group including himself, to
Germany on "government expenses" knowing that members of this
group are being sent to defect after reaching Germany and are not
going there to promote Indian culture as per the objections of ICCR,
thereby caused wrongful loss to Government to the tune of
Rs.5,00,940/­ towards air fare, Rs.1,50,957/­ towards DA and a sum of
Rs.28,096/­ towards hotel accommodation. 3.4. Accused no. 3 Ms. Balwinder Bawa @ Bawa was also
charged u/s 468 IPC for the allegations that she on or about May, 2005
alongwith one Hargulab Singh (who turned approver) had forged an
advertisement in "Manpreet Bulletin", a Punjabi weekly, various
commendation certificates of social and religious organizations in favour
of the group namely "Mehak Punjab Di" and prepared two VCDs
showing fake performance of the bhangra group "Mehak Punjab Di" and
photo albums, intending that these documents so forged shall be used
for the purposes of cheating. 3.5. Accused no. 4 Gurbhej Singh was also charged under section
471 IPC for the allegations that he alongwith his co­accused after
having formed a fake cultural group by the name of "Mehak Punjab Di" On scrutiny it was stated that record/performance of Mehak Punjab Di is
not there, but while coming back Ludhiana, accused Shiv Kumar
Sharma assured it will be registered, he has to pay Rs.1 lakh, which he
paid. On 27.4.2005, Rs.1 lakh was given by accused Shiv Kumar to
Rakesh Kumar in office of ICCR Delhi, when formal application for
registration of Mehak Punjab Di was filed with a few records, which was
an idea floated by them. The accused Shiv Kumar Sharma and Rakesh
Kumar were also helping hands in officials way and also otherwise to
form that Bhangra group of Mehak Punjab Di. It was advised to have
photographs, VCDs, commendation certificates and published news
items, then he alongwith Balwinder Bawa got staged two programmes
for performance, which were covered by photographs and video,

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 20 of156 ]
 however, initially photographs were without banner of Mehak Punjab Di
then as advised, again performance was recorded by putting banner of
Mahak Punjab Di behind the stage, the said albums, VCDs, still
photographs were made, later it were furnished to ICCR. PW54 Ajeet
Singh alias Jeeta Pawar, singer/artist (an aspirant to go abroad) who
had also performed with Balwinder Bawa, was approached by both
Hargulab Singh and accused Balwinder Bawa, his earned certificates
and its photos were taken on pretext to be required for formalities,
besides amount of Rs.50,000/­ in the presence of PW56 Jaswant Singh
Cheema. PW 56 was also convinced for sending him to England, he
paid amount in installments. Both were also joined in the programme as
well as in training sessions given by PW38 Tehal Singh Kheeva.
Hargulab Singh, PW56 and accused Balwinder Bawa had also gone to
the office of Manpreet Bulletin for edition of news item of Mehak Punjab
Di to be used for empanelment. PW4 alongwith Balwinder Bawa got
prepared printed commendation certificates by using photographs of
certificates, which were filled in by him (PW4) and also by PW56 on
request of PW4. Album, photographs, VCDs, two newspaper bulletin
were prepared of that show that there is a Bhangra group by name
Mehak Punjab Di, which had performed on various occasions, it was
also published in two Manpreet Bulletin. He also gives lengthy details as to how actions were initiated after
filing of formal application with ICCR for registration of group Mehak
Punjab Di, then in order to succeed in registration, Shiv Kumar,
Balwinder Bawa, PW­4 and some witnesses proceeded to acquire
certificates and news item, which were got printed from the process vis
a vis an album of photographs besides VCDs were prepared. He
narrates about the places visited by them and how those certificates
were got printed to show that Mehak Punjab Di is actually a Bhangra
Group performed at various occasions, whereas the photographs,
albums, VCDs, certificates and news bulletin were just creations for the
purposes of getting registration of Mehak Punjab Di (viz Ex. PW­4/E1
to Ex. PW­4/E39, Ex. PW­4/M, Ex. PW­4/I1 & Ex. PW­4/I2, Ex. PW­
4/F1 to Ex. PW­4/F6 and Ex. PW­4/G & Ex. PW­4/H). PW­4 narrates
that consideration/amount was paid to Rakesh Kumar through Shiv
Kumar Sharma for a Bhangra group to be registered with the ICCR,
New Delhi. In connivance of Rakesh Kumar the Experts Sub­Committee
was formulated and with the aid, advise and confidence of Rakesh

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 21 of156 ]
 Kumar, Shiv Kumar Sharma, Balwinder Bawa & PW4 the said Bhangra
Group Mehak Punjab Di was got registered. PW4 was leader of Mehak
Punjab Di, whereas neither he knew Bhangra nor his son. After registration of Mehak Punjab Di, a Bhangra group under the
leadership of PW­4, he/PW4 organised a performance at Zimindara
Hotel, Ludhiana on 01.09.2005 and 02.09.2005, which was inspected
by accused Rakesh Kumar as well as other officer PW­12 Ms.
Kehkashan Tyagi vis a vis the letter dated 31.08.2005 (Ex. PW­4/R) of
empanelment of Mehak Punjab Di was also delivered to him personally
by PW­12 Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi at Zimindara Hotel, where rooms were
also booked by PW­4, where he has been keeping booking from time
to time. He extended hospitality to all of them, besides shopping to
PW12, payment for room in separate hotel for Rakesh Kumar & Shiv
Kumar. Balwinder Bawa was also present there besides other artists
came for performance. PW­4 also deposed as to the circumstances that
accused Rakesh Kumar had asked for two girls, he also narrates in
respect of PW­9 and PW­10 as deposed by them (as detailed
hereinafter in sub­paragraph (xxxix & xL). There was also instructions
that the persons to be named by accused Shiv Kumar will be sent
abroad and there was threat by Balwinder Bawa that in case her name
was not included, then she will produce the said two girls before the
police, thence names of her son and daughter­in­law were included in
the list of persons to be sent abroad but subject to payment of Rs.7.5
lakhs per person to defected, otherwise air fare. His further narration comes about persons to be sent to Germany
as well as amount to be collected, Shiv Kumar Sharma was conduit for
all such channel and some artists were to be included, for which
Balwinder also starts searching. Then how application forms were filled
in, inclusive of impersonating the name of Balwinder Bawa's son
'Sukhdeep Singh alias Saba' as Satnam Singh in the application forms,
the applications forms were with Shiv Kumar Sharma too, he also filled
in the forms . PW­4 deposed that he has narrated all the incidents
correctly in his knowledge. In addition, amounts were also paid in
respect of persons to be defected from India after taking them in Berlin,
Germany under the garb of group of artists vis a vis Shiv Kumar
Sharma also included in that group, his three persons also defected
after visiting Berlin, Germany, since PW­4 alongwith his son Randeep

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 22 of156 ]
 Singh had also gone there, his son Randeep Singh defected from Berlin
immediately reaching there. PW4 and his son had not participated in the
performances. PW4's brother was living in Germany, PW4 also
defected but due to sickness of father of PW­4, he came back India
lateron & joined the investigation. He also gives details as to how
names of the persons were included in the group by Balwinder Bawa,
Gurbhej Singh and persons included by Shiv Kumar, which came to
knowledge of PW4 at later point of time when defected persons met him
in Gurudwara in Germany and disclosed it vis a vis for each person to
be defected from Berlin amount was paid of Rs.7.5 lakh person except
PW4 paid Rs.5 lakh, since he had invested money for registration of
Group Mehak Punjab Di and amount collected by Balwinder Bawa was
also handed over to Shiv Kumar Sharma, who had also shown collected
amounts in the brief case to be delivered to Rakesh Kumar Sharma.
PW4 had handed over original record/commendation certificate to
Balwinder Bawa, when departure was made from Delhi and its copies
(Mark­Z1 to Z9) were furnished in support of application for
empanelment. [The testimony of PW­4 has been challenged on all counts that
he is an approver, and the testimony of PW­4 is contradictory and non­
convincing, it is not getting corroboration from other evidence. On the
one side, he is brain behind all episode but he is implicating others at
the instance of CBI in order to get rid of himself from the trail of
circumstances against him and to self­serve his own cause, he falsely
named accused persons.]. (ii) PW­2 Sh. Raj Kumar, Real Estate Agent - to establish that about
antecedents of PW­2 vis a vis as to how he came into contact with Shiv
Kumar, whom PW­2 dealt friendly as well as in commercial transaction
in buying the plots for Shiv Kumar, his friends, relatives and for others.
Accused Shiv Kumar had relation with several IPS officers namely
Sarabjeet Singh, Mr. Siddiqui and many more and by using such
contacts, accused Shiv Kumar Sharma got several persons employed in
Punjab Police, even his three nephews as well as son of an
acquaintance of PW­2, even PW­2 had paid Rs. 2 lakh for getting
employment for son of his friend in Punjab Police. Moreover, accused
Gurbhej Singh also deputed as gunman cum driver for Shiv Kumar
because of his relations with senior police officers, Shiv Kumar had also

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 23 of156 ]
 bought benami property in the name of Gurbhej Singh through PW­2.
PW­2 further narrates that he knew the accused Rakesh Kumar since
he used to attend parties and functions hosted by Shiv Kumar, even
PW­2 knew about booking of hotel for Rakesh Kumar as well as his
visits at Maharaja Hotel and Zimindara Dhaba, Ludhina, where accused
Rakesh Kumar used to be provided girls to stay with him by Shiv Kumar
as well as by Balwinder Bawa. In this way, many facts are narrated by
PW­2 to show that not only knew Shiv Kumar but he is one of the well
acquainted person vis a vis he knows about the inter­se relations of
Rakesh Kumar, Shiv Kumar, Gurbhej Singh and PW­2 had also lent Rs.
1 lakh to Gurbhej Singh to be given to Shiv Kumar for sending Gurbhej
Singh's brother­in­law abroad. He was told about sending of persons
abroad under the disguise of Bhangra Group by using contact with
Rakesh Kumar as well as Rs. 7.5 lakhs was charged per person to
send abroad, he also knew fact of 14/15 persons had left India under
that occasion. Gurbhej Singh had also visited Delhi to see off his
brother­in­law Amandeep Singh in that group, Shiv Kumar also told him
that many more persons namely Satnam Singh, Prabhjot Singh, Pawan
Kumar, Jagdish Singh, Raji, Amandeep Singh, Hargulab Singh and
many more had also gone abroad in that group, and these facts were
disclosed to PW­2 because of sweet relations. In addition, PW­2 knows
about the writings of accused Shiv Kumar, he was put to certain
diaries/writings as well as application forms for issuance of official
passports written by Shiv Kumar particularly, application for Shiv
Kumar Sharma himself, Satnam Singh, Pawan Kumar, Amandeep
Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Prabhjot Singh, Satnam Singh, Raji, Amarjeet
Singh (viz. Ex. PW­2/E, Ex. PW­2/F, Ex. PW­2/G, Ex. PW­2/H, Ex.
PW­2/I, Ex. PW­2/J, Ex. PW­2/K, Ex. PW­2/L & Ex {W12/S). Lastly, he
also knew that when Rakesh Kumar visited Zimindara Dhaba to view
the performance,Rakesh Kumar had stayed in the hotel where he was
supplied with two girls by Balwinder Bawa & Hargul, and lateron
accused Gurbhej had picked up those girls there. [PW­2 has been cross­examined thoroughly, in nutshell, there are
number of FIRs registered against PW­2 in various police stations in
Punjab, particularly FIR No. 300/06, PS­Division No.5, Ludhiana on the
complaint of Shiv Kumar's nephew Rajat Sharma, FIR no. 25/2007 PS
Hobowal on the complaint of Shiv Kumar, FIR No. 244/11, PS­Division
No.5 on the complaint of Shiv Kumar, another complaint u/s

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 24 of156 ]
 107/151 Cr.P.C on the complaint of Nabi Khan, godown keeper of Gas
Agency of family of Shiv Kumar and one complaint by PW­2 against
Shiv Kumar and so on to demonstrate that PW­2 is not reliable witness
vis a vis his entire statement is hearsay, without his relevancy to link to
case and he is an illiterate person but he was asked to identify the
writings of Shiv Kumar Sharma, he deposed at the instance of CBI]. (iii) PW­7 Sh. Pawan Kumar Verma, DG, ICCR - to establish that he
joined as Director General, ICCR, New Delhi in September 2005 as a
successor of accused Rakesh Kumar and then PW­7 came to know
defection of members of cultural group Mehak Punjab Di, which was
sent to Germany through ICCR. Further, he had received fax message
and when he started making an inquiry and also exchanged
correspondence with the Embassy of Federal Republic of Germany by
way of official communication and e­mails (namely record of fax Ex.
PW­7/A, letter Ex. PW­7/B, message and official noting Ex. PW­7/C, e­
mails Ex. PW­7/D & Ex. PW­7/E). In addition, Director General ICCR
was required to seek appropriate permission while leaving the station,
whereas the accused Rakesh Kumar had not taken such permission vis
a vis there was no official record of payment of train tickets to Rakesh
Kumar in respect of his visit Delhi­Ludhiana­Delhi. [He was cross­
examined in detail with regard to the record produced that e­mail was
even not received on his official e­mail or the personal e­mail can not be
relied upon or use as official document vis a vis the officer at the rank of
DG was not required prior permission to proceed out of station for
official purposes and so on]. (iv) PW­24 Sh. Sunil Kumar Singh, Assistant Programme Officer,
ICCR, New Delhi - for establishing that in the year 2004­05, he was
working as Assistant Programme Officer AVR Section, ICCR, Azad
Bhawan, Delhi and in the phase of his duties he used to receive formal
application forms from aspirants for empanelment, the application
received is to be entered in the Register and specific number is given
on such received application, accordingly specific number
'Folk/Punjab/129/4' Mehak Punjab Di was assigned on application (Ex.
PW­4/A) by PW­24 in his writing at Point­X, the application was
accompanied with a visiting card (Ex.PW­4/C, Hargulab Singh, Mehak
Punjab Di), participants identity card­Doordarshan Kendra Jalandhar
(Ex. PW­4/D, in the name/signature of Hargulab Singh) and four

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 25 of156 ]
 photographs (Ex. PW­4/B1 to Ex. PW­4/B4). The application alongwith
its annexure were handed over to Sunil Bhalla (PW­59). He was told by
Sunil Bhalla that those applications which used to be received from DG
office are required to be identified by putting a star (*) mark against its
entry in the final list of applications prepared, accordingly he put the star
(*) against the name of 'Mehak Punjab Di' in the final list of applicants
(Ex. PW­24/A). After about 1 ½ months of receipt of application, Sunil
Bhalla (PW­59) handed over two VCDs [Ex. PW­4/I­1 and Ex. PW­4/I­2,
a slip was pasted on the cover of VCDs for identification] and album
(Ex. PW­4/M), as the same are to be considered by the Expert
Committee for emapnelment of artists. Then he explains the hierarchy
of officers with regard to taking the decision about formation of
committee, since there were 400 applications from different applicants
for empanelment during 2005 and Sunil Bhalla, Programme Officer had
prepared a note for constitution of Committee, it was put up before
Deputy DG/PW­73 M.S. Grover for putting it before Director General
and after approval by Director General, then it was to be approved by
President, ICCR. Appropriate noting were prepared by Sh. Sunil Bhalla
for formation of the Expert Committee, the Expert Committee meeting
took place in August 2005 in the office of ICCR and PW­24 prepared 6
folders (Ex. PW­24/B1 to Ex. PW­24/B6) for each member of Expert
Sub­Committee, each folder contain a similar set of papers for every
member of panel, it contained complete detail of applicant of his name,
group, date of birth, individual, style of field, name of institute/group and
in the column 'remark', each member has to record his observation and
each member of the committee has to sign at the bottom of the list in
their folder. The name of Mehak Punjab Di was at serial no.40* of the
list, a star (*) was put on its name at the instance of Sunil Bhalla. The
Committee members were experts namely Ustad Jawad Ali Khan (PW­ 44), Mr. Swapan Mukherjee (PW­45), Sh. Dadi Dorab Padamji (PW­46),
Sh. Yog Sunder Desai (PW­47), Sh. Prem Matiyani (Ex. PW­49),
Professor Kamlakar Sontake, Secretary Sangeet Naatak Academy. He
further explains his role in completion of all those formalities and the
minutes of committee used to be prepared by Sunil Bhalla, PW­24 had
seen all the list of selected candidates/applicants against whom tick
mark was assigned and those against whose name cross (x) mark was
put up, those were rejected by the panel, then it was put up before PW­
73 M.S. Grover, DDG followed by its presentation before Rakesh
Kumar, Director General who finally approved the list and generally

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 26 of156 ]
 selected applicants used to be approved by the President, ICCR vis a
vis in the present case it was not done so by Director General Rakesh
Kumar. There was practice from the year 1998 till 2004 that approval of
empanelment group was accorded by President, ICCR or by Vice­
President, ICCR [as per record Ex. PW­12/Z4]. Further, the letter of
empanelment was prepared at the instance of PW­12 Ms. Kehkashan
Tyagi, it was sent by post (vide entry Ex. PW­24/F in the register) but it
was received back un­served (Ex.PW­24/E) for which matter/noting
(ExPW­24/B) was put up before Deputy DG (P) for intimation, under the
signature of Sunil Bhalla. Another letter (Ex. PW­4/R) was personally
delivered to Hargulab Singh by hand. [PW­24 has been cross­examined in detail in respect of his deposition
with regard to hierarchy of officers, their duties inclusive of the duties of
PW­24 as well as the matter dealt by him to cull out that there is no set
procedure or regulations with regard to constitution of Expert Committee
or about the hierarchy when President/Vice President, ICCR is not
available, what course of action is to be carried but functioning of
Institute cannot be stopped or he was not completely aware of decision
making process vis a vis the asterisk mark (*) against the name of
Mehak Punjab Di was own decision of Sunil Bhall or of PW­24, that too
without any instruction from Rakesh Kumar]. (v) PW­59 Sh. Sunil Bhalla, Programme Officer In AVR Section, ICCR,
New Delhi - to prove that during 2004­05 he was posted as Programme
Officer in AVR (Audio Visual Reference) Section in ICCR, Azad Bhawan
and the other section was of OCD (Outgoing Cultural Delegation) as
well as the hierarchy that at the top, there is President, Vice­President
ICCR and then Director General, there are Deputy Director General
Programme and Deputy Director General Administration besides
Director and other officers namely Senior Program Officer, Program
Officer, Assistant Program Officer. Program Officer is Head of various
sections besides other ministerial staff including LDC etc. The
application for empanelment are dealt by AVR Section. During 2004­
2005 Rakesh Kumar was Director General of ICCR, Sh. M.S.
Grover/PW­73 was Dy. Director General and Sh. Pradeep Kumar was
another Dy. Director General, Mr. Madhu Mohata was Director, both
Deputy Director General and Director were the officials from Ministry of
External Affairs and the staff was reporting to Director, ICCR. The AVR

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 27 of156 ]
 Section was having two parts, one was responsible for video­recording
of all programmes and other part used to deal with the application by
various artists for empanelment, PW­59 was in AVR Section to deal
with the applications. The main function of ICCR was to promote the
Indian Culture abroad and to expose the Indian public to foreign culture
of various countries by organising functions in India. The artists used to
be empaneled with ICCR in various categories of dance, music, folk,
Karnatic music theater etc. The artist could apply individually or in
groups. The PW­59 further details as to how applications are dealt. The OCD Section was being dealt and looked after by PW­12 Smt.
Kehkashan Tyagi, Programme Officer in the year 2004­05 under the
supervision of Dy. DG (P)/Director General. But in the year 2005 there
was no advisory empanelment Committee or Expert Sub­Committee,
since it had expired in 2004. In April 2005 Rakesh Kumar instructed
PW­73 M.S. Grover that meeting of Expert Sub­Committee is to be
convened and on such instruction, PW­59 put up a note to the effect
that there is no advisory empanelment/Expert Sub­Committee in
existence and on oral instruction of DG through M.S. Grover, an Expert
Committee was to be convened. Rakesh Kumar, Director General had called PW­73 and
asked him that one group under the name Mehak Punjab Di is to be
empaneld for which he sent Hargulab Singh to Kehkashan Tyagi and
the application will be given to PW­59. Under such instructions, an
application form was given to Hargulab Singh but he does not know
English and the application was filled in (as per particulars advised by
Hargulab Singh) by PW­59 for Folk category Bhangra and Gidda, he
had signed the application, the application was supported with four
photographs, visiting card and a document (which are Ex. PW­4/B1 to
Ex. PW­4/B3). PW­59 further explains that he never fills in the
applications but it was done so on the instructions of Director General
and Ms. Tyagi . He also deposed about the two VCDs, one album
containing photographs of Mehak Punjab Di and press clippings of
Punjabi New bulletin (Ex. PW­4/I­1 & Ex. PW­4/I­2, Ex. PW­4/M) later­
on supplemented in support of application. In his further deposition, he
further talks about the register in which entry of applicant Mehak Punjab
Di (Ex. PW­59/A) was made and about the noting dated 08.07.2005
which was put up before Deputy DG for approval of DG and President,

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 28 of156 ]
 ICCR, however, Rakesh Kumar, Deputy General had not put up those
noting (Ex.PW­59/B) before President, ICCR. Then PW­59 followed
immediate oral instructions of PW­73 M.S. Grover and proposed for an
Expert meeting in the month of August 2005 and noting dated
13.07.2005 (Ex.PW­59/C) was prepared, as per procedure estimate in
expenditure for Expert Sub Committee to be held from 02.08.2005 to
24.08.2005 was approved by Rakesh Kumar, DG (Ex. PW­59/C read
with Ex. PW­11/G). It was Rakesh Kumar DG who amended the list of
Sub Committee by his own writing. Rakesh Kumar, DG asked PW­59 that group Mehak Punjab Di
should be empaneled, he had deputed PW­12 Kehkashan Tyagi to sit in
the said meeting, name of Mehak Punjab Di was at serial no.40 and
asterisk (*) mark was put on the serial no. 40*. He explains the
procedure of Expert Sub­Committee that each member was given a
folder, the meeting was chaired by PW­73 M.S. Grover; Ms.
Kehkashan Tyagi was also present besides other staff of Sunil Kumar
Singh, an Assistant and PW­59 and after the meetings were over, the
folders were handed over to PW­73 Mr. Grover, two of the experts were
not present on 03.08.2005, their signatures were obtained
subsequently. He/PW59 had also watched the VCDs of Mehak Punjab
Di at the time it was played before Expert Committee and he views that
in the VCDs, it was appearing marriage stage of some party rather than
other artistic performance. [He was cross­examined to challenge his testimony as well as that he is
not aware of many material aspects or he could not account for actual
putting of asterisk mark against the name of various applicants or it was
decision of PW­73 to assign the mark themselves without any
instructions from accused Rakesh Kumar vis a vis the role of PW­59
was limited to the extent of secretarial assistance to the Experts and
nothing more and other accused had no role to influence Rakesh
Kumar]. (vi) PW­72 Sh. Sudhanshu Pandey, Director, Tagore Centre, Berlin,
Germany - to prove that in September 2005 he was Director Tagore
Center, Berlin, Germany and he was representative of ICCR in
Germany, he used to get various literary and cultural programmes on
behalf of ICCR with object of promoting the culture of India. ICCR is a
autonomous body functioning under the Ministry of External Affairs,

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 29 of156 ]
 ICCR conducts its many offices in various countries, literary and cultural
programes. In September 2005 a 15 member Bhangra Group was
nominated by ICCR to perform in Berlin, the group was not initially in
the schedule of annual plan to come and perform, however, on
1/2.09.05, Kehkashan Tyagi, Programe Officer (Outgoing Cultural
Group) ICCR contacted on telephone to PW­72 and told him about 15
members of Bhangra group being sent to Berlin on 12.09.2005 and also
asked to fix their performance wherever possible. Since the period was
too short only for two events, one was in Embassy of India, coinciding
with the visit of the then Air Force Chief of India and another was
organized in the Museum of Indian Arts in Dhalem, Berlin. The group
Manager was Shiv Kumar Sharma arrived on 12.09.2005, he was put
up in a separate hotel and the group was put up in Old Cultural Center
as per the sanction received from ICCR. The group had performed on
14 & 15 September at scheduled places. On 15.09.2005 in the night at
about 01:30am [i.e 16th morning], he received a call from Mr. Sharma
that four group members are missing from the place of stay.
Immediately, Embassy was informed. Police was also informed. Again
at 10:30am of 16.09.2005, he got another call from one of the members
of the group staying in Old Cultural Center, that one group member is
also missing but the flight was already booked for afternoon of
16.09.2005, the group member present were to leave for Airport, the
police authorities and Embassy were informed. The group leader
Hargulab Singh and his son Randeep Singh, who were staying at their
relative's place in Berlin, did not report at Airport. Therefore, out of 15
persons, 6 members of the group could left for India. The detailed report
(Ex. PW­72/A) was furnished. Moreover, call was also received from
Shiv Kumar Sharma that he would help the authorities to trace out the
missing persons in Berlin. He had also received a call from Balwinder
Bawa @ Bawa on 16.12.2005 alleging that Shiv Kumar Sharma had
collected Rs. 7­8 lakhs from each of the member of the group who had
run away, PW­72 had asked to furnish her statement in writing vis a vis
she also informed that her son and daughter­in­law have also
absconded but she is in touch with them. Appropriate communications
(Ex.PW­72/B) were carried by him with the authorities. PW­72 confirms
about self contained note dated 22.12.2005 (Ex.PW­72/D) which was
sent to CBI by letter (Ex.PW­72/C), e­mail/correspondence (Ex.PW­
72/E). Lastly generally, when a group is sent abroad, it is headed by a
leader, no separate Manager is to accompany the group but only in

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 30 of156 ]
 extra ordinary circumstances, a group Manager is sent alongwith the
group and a Manager is to be an employee of ICCR. There was no such
extraordinary circumstances to send Shiv Kumar Sharma as Group
Manager. There was performance of group on 14.9.2005 & 15.09.2005,
however, PW­72 had not counted the members during performance, but
Hargulab Singh and Randeep Singh had not performed on both the
days. Shiv Kumar Sharma was not associated in any manner with the
group performance or with group coordination. [He was cross­examined
in detail vis a vis it was Shiv Kumar Sharma who had first informed the
escape of persons or as per annual plan 2005 (Ex. PW­72/DX) there is
recommendation of folk dances in September and October 2005,
Bhangra falls in the category of a folk dance. Further, neither Balwinder
Bawa ever since called PW­72 nor there is any information or
communication in writing to this effect]. (vii) PW­11 Sh. Ravi Mohan Aggarwal, Dy. Director General, ICCR -
to prove that he was transferred to Head Quarter, Ministry of External
Affairs and joined ICCR on 19.08.2005 as Deputy Director General
being successor of Sh. M.S. Grover (PW­72) and he deposed that
certain noting were put up before him, from time to time by
Programming Officer which were dealt by him viz. Noting dated
25.8.2005 (Ex. PW­11/A) with list of selection of group/artists for
empanelment was put up before the Director General, financial
sanction for sending the delegation, by approving as proposed by noting
prepared by Kehkashan Tyagi (Ex. PW­11/B, for Rs.30,881/­), another
note prepared by Mohd. Umar (PW­16) in respect of other related
expenditure on this delegation going to Berlin for 15 members of
Punjabi Folk Dance under the leadership of Hargulab Singh vide noting
Ex. PW­11/C duly endorsed 'may be approved' at Point­A, noting for
additional expenditure of Rs. 30,000/­ forwarded by Programme Officer
Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi were approved by PW­11 (Ex. PW­11/D), noting
towards settlement of bills in respect of this delegation for air travel and
medical insurance of delegate (Ex. PW­11/E) which was forwarded to
the then Director General Sh. Pawan Kumar Verma. The letter for
political clearance approval (Ex.PW­11/F), noting towards the estimated
expenditure on the delegation (Ex. PW­11/G) were dealt by PW­11.
Similarly, he deposed about other documents/noting and
correspondence dealt by him, from time to time (Ex. PW­11/H to Ex.
PW­11/Y6 and Ex. PW­11/D6) inclusive of the facts about settlement of

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 31 of156 ]
 bill regarding travel from Delhi to Ludhiana of Sh. Rakesh Kumar, the
settlement of expenditure for hiring car for Expert Committee and so on
particularly letter dated 31.08.2005 (Ex. PW­4/R) addressed to
Hargulab Singh was prepared by Kehkashan Tyagi, as Director General
had already approved selection of Hargulab Singh. He had also handed
over certain documents to CBI for which memos were prepared. [PW­11
was cross­examined about the annual plans of ICCR as well as the plan
of action for year 2005­2006 (Ex. PW­11/DX, particularly at Point A to A
on page­3), there is mentioning of festival of Folk Dances in Germany
and PW­11 also defined that Bhangra is a Folk Dance. He also
deposed that standard procedure was followed for sending delegation
to Berlin as per practice of ICCR for sending the delegation abroad.] (viii) PW­12 Mrs. Kehkashan Tyagi, Library Assistant, ICCR - to
establish that she was Programme Officer in ICCR, Azad Bhawan and
she was in OCD Division, when Sh. Rakesh Kumar was Director
General, particularly in the year 2005. She was not dealing with the
Empanelment Section. She deposed about the hierarchy of officers in
the Administration as well as a separate section known as AVR to
prepare the list of artists for empanelment. She also narrates as to how
process is initiated from the moment applications for empanelment of
artists/group are received and the further phases of process, its scrutiny
and then constitution of Experts Sub­Committee, the role of such Sub­
Committee and then after finalisation of members of the group. A
Planning Committee is formed by the governing bodies and the
President, this Planning Committee considers all the work so received
and the proposal which are considered and accepted by the Planning
Committee are forwarded to Finance Committee and the Finance
Committee after considering the approval, give the financial approval
and then it goes to the governing body and the President, they finally
approve the same. The next course to be adopted to send them abroad,
in that phase the procedure for official passport, visa, political clearance
etc. are materialised. She also narrates about the other officers and
officials in the department. In the Plan of Action of 2005­2006 (Ex. PW­
11/DX) there was no specific requirement of sending Bhangra group in
September 2005 to any country. In March 2005, Hargulab Singh came at ICCR, Delhi, he was
directed to see PW­12 and she described him the procedure to be

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 32 of156 ]
 followed for empanelment/registration. He came her on referring of
accused Rakesh Kumar, she directed Hargulab Singh to the concerned
official Sh. Sunil Bhalla (APO, PW­59). He wants to get empaneled for
performance of his group, he had brought and shown certain
photographs; whereas there was specific requirement of photographs
showing performance and DVDs. Accordingly, he was made aware and
to see the concerned officer of the Section. He came again in April 2005
by showing relevant records, he was re­directed to Sunil Bhalla. The
Director General had directed PW­12 to give feedback. There was Advisory Empanelment Committee (Ex. PW­12/A is
the names of its members) and there was also certain letters received
to include in the Expert Committee, the Expert Sub Committee was
constituted and it lasted for 10 days, the decision of ICCR was final and
thereafter the file was put up before Deputy DG, ICCR. PW­12 deposed
about certain documents, which were also part of statement of PW­11
and in addition, she deposed about fax message of Indian Council for
Cultural Relation, list of group members, certain circulars of ICCR, fax
message to Germany, forwarding letter for passport, list of detail of 14
members of the group under the leader of Hargulab Singh (total 15
members), application forms for passport of Mandeep Singh,
Amanpreet Singh, Gurmeet Kaur as well as certificates in their names
besides certificates in the name of Amanjeet Singh, Jadgeep Singh,
Prabhjot Singh, Randeep Singh, Raji, which were issued by her under
her signature, by virtue of those certificates the ordinary passports were
kept in safe custody (the documents dealt by PW­12 are Ex. PW­12/A
to Ex. PW­12/Z5, besides other documents referred in the statement of
PW­11. [PW12 was not initially not supporting the case of prosecution,
thus it was permitted to cross examine her on behalf of State. She was
confronted to her statements dated 3.4.2006/ 6.10. 2006 Ex.PW12/Z­5,
she came out with certain facts & documents]. [She was also cross
examined on behalf of accused to challenge her veracity, her conduct
and deposition to suggest her testimony is not reliable]. (ix) PW­73 Sh. M.S. Grover, DDG (Programmes), ICCR, New Delhi -
to prove that he was posted as DDG Programmes, ICCR till 09.09.2005
and his duties were to look after Indian Cultural Center abroad,
distinguish visitor programmes, process/request for deputation of
cultural troops abroad for consideration of competent authority and also

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 33 of156 ]
 to consider application form for emapnelment of artists, as per rules and
regulations laid down in this regard. For the purposed of empanelment
of artists, there is a procedure and also emapnelment Advisory
Committee, which would select members of Experts Sub Committee
and for approval of competent authority, the competent authority was
President, ICCR. The President of ICCR is nominated by President of
India. Director General, ICCR reports to President of ICCR. There was
no empanelment Expert Committee in August 2005 since its previous
tenure expired before August 2004 and that is why there was no
selection of artists between August 2004 to August 2005. However,
Rakesh Kumar, Director General asked for empanelment of new artists
before August 2005, whereas he was advised that there was no such
need for empanelment as long waiting list of some cases over 10 years
nor there was any Expert Sub Committee in existence to consider the
empanelment but he insisted that there is a tremendous pressure from
the then President, ICCR, the Minister of External Affairs and some
artists, thus the empanelment process should take place. He insisted
that formation of new Expert Sub­Committee would take long time, let
the previous Sub Committee (whose terms had expired) be extended to
consider the empanelment process. Accordingly, a proposal was put up
before Director General for seeking approval of competent
authority/President of ICCR, PW­73 did not seek any approval but
Rakesh Kumar, Director General told that him President, ICCR had
approved it and accordingly tenure of previous Sub Committee was
extended. There were 6 members in the Expert Sub­Committee, the
names of two experts namely Mr. Bansi Kaul and Mr. U. Banerjee were
replaced with Professor Kamlakar Sontake and Mr. Swapan Mukherjee
as suggested by Rakesh Kumar, accordingly noting was prepared for
approval of President, ICCR, DG Rakesh Kumar told PW­73 that it has
been approved by President, ICCR although PW­73 had not seen that
approval. The Experts Sub Committee held a meeting in August 2005, the
performances of artists/group were viewed and PW­73 relied upon the
advices/remarks of experts, since PW­73 was not an expert. The
minutes of Sub Committee were signed by the experts and the same
were submitted by PW­73 with his note dated 24.08.2005 under his
signature (Ex. PW­73/A, its copy is also Ex. PW­45/A) before Sh.
Rakesh Kumar, DG, ICCR for necessary approval by President ICCR, it

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 34 of156 ]
 was last official act of PW­73 in ICCR and then he was succeeded by
Sh. R.M. Aggarwal (PW­11), who had already joined and resumed the
responsibility of Deputy DG, Programme. PW­73 was confronted with
noting dated 25.08.2005 under the signature of Sh. R.M. Aggarwal, to
the same effect (Ex. PW­11/A) and he/PW73 surprised that there was
already original minutes drawn (for approval by President) under his
signature by noting dated 24.08.2005 (Ex. PW­73/A) then what was the
occasion for writing entirely new note dated 25.08.2005 (Ex. PW­11/A),
particularly in the noting Ex. PW­73/A he has written in narrative in the
substance that the minutes are being forwarded for approval of
President of ICCR as President was the competent authority by
convention to approve the minutes but the noting Ex. PW­11/A by his
successor Sh. R.M. Aggarwal does not mention for approval of
President, ICCR but adopted a shortcut procedure by putting the file
before Rakesh Kumar, Director General, who finally approved the
minutes. [PW­73 has been cross­examined about the rule or regulations followed
for empanelment as well as whether there is such procedure or
convention that the minutes of Expert Empanelment Committee to be
put up before President, ICCR for approval, besides that PW­73 was
not shown any file which may reflect approval by President of ICCR in
respect of minutes of Empanelment Committee. He was also confronted
that there was no President, ICCR from 18.05.2005 to 01.09.2005 vis a
vis the empanelment advisory committee file remained in his/PW73's
custody from 02.08.2005 to 24.08.2005 and in his reply to questionnaire
(Ex. PW­73/DX) to CBI, that file was either with Sunil Bhalla, Raj Kumar
or Sh. R.M. Aggarwal and lastly PW­73 had not given any advice to
Rakesh Kumar in writing or otherwise.] ... ... (x) PW­44 Ustad Jawaad Ali Khan, Classical Vocalist - to prove that
he belongs to Patiala Gharana Classical Vocalist and he has been in
profession of singing Hindi classical Khayal, Thumri etc. and a regular
artist in All India Radio and Doordarshan. He was invited in judging of
suitability of various vocal artists and aspirant for empanelment in ICCR,
he was one of the members in Committee of experts. The VCDs of the
artists were played on projector, which was judged by the experts panel
and by him on the basis of its presentation, 'sur' and 'taal', which he
recorded in the list and then final list (Ex. PW­11/T) was prepared,

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 35 of156 ]
 which was also signed by him at Point­A (on each page of nos. 41 to 50). Further, to prove that PW­12 Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi called him in
the office after one and two days by telephone, he met accused Rakesh
Kumar/Director General and on his request he listen the CD of a lady
artist and found her voice alright, then on page no. 42 he signed at
Point­X and on the instruction of DG Rakesh Kumar wrote 'approved'
against the name of Ms. Kanak Chaturvedi, whose name was 'not
approved' earlier. At the time of making signature at Point­X, other
experts were not present as they did not turn up despite their wait but
he was assured of their arrival and thence PW­44 signed at Point­X for
'approval' of name of Kanak Chaturvedi. Further, the name of
'Swapan Mukherjee & Party' was also approved for another empaneled
artist (serial no.1 on page 8 of Ex. PW­44/A8) in that Experts sub­
committee meeting. [PW­44 was cross­examined from the point of view
that being an expert an independent opinion was formed on the basis of
performance viewed vis a vis the appropriate remark of 'approval' were
based on that performance, there was no instructions or insistence by
DG Rakesh Kumar at any point of time with regard to empanelment of
the 'artists']. (xi) PW­45 Sh. Swapan Mukherjee, Lecturer in Kalyani University - to
prove that he is a folk singer belonging to Bengal and had certain
cultural programme at his credit. When he came to know that ICCR has
an Expert Committee of Artists, he applied to be an expert in that
Committee in the year 2005 and he was appointed an expert in the
Experts Sub­committee, which he attended on 2.8.2005 & 3.08.2005 to
judge the artists/folk singers from the Eastern India. Further, to prove
that an officer M.S. Grover, DDG (PW­73) briefed the members of
Experts Committee as well as the procedure for selecting the artists and
accordingly CD of each artist was viewed. He recorded his remarks in
the folder (Ex. PW­24/D5) against each entry and some entries were
carrying asterisk (*) mark, some senior officers of ICCR had instructed
to give approval against whose name mark asterisk (*) was given. He
had recorded remarks 'approved' against the name of Mehak Punjab Di
(at serial no. 40*) and similarly he had also signed at Point­A in the final
list (Ex. PW­45/A, part of record Ex PW11/T). He also deposed that he
was not conversant with the languages of all performances and that is
why he made recommendations keeping in view the comments of other
experts in the Committee. [He was cross­examined and PW­45

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 36 of156 ]
 explained that it was not every case in which 'approved' or 'not
approved' was on the basis of assessment of PW­45 and he reiterated
that he was not conversant with the language and the remarks of other
experts were considered by him to assign the 'approved' or 'not
approved']. (xii) PW­46 Sh. Dadi Dorab Padamji, Puppetry - to prove that he is an
artist (Puppetry) and he operates a theater under the name 'Ishara
Puppet Theater Trust'. He is an AwarDi of Sangeet Naatak Academy
and had also gone to Spain on its project. ICCR had also sent three
puppet groups under the same project and during exhibition of that
project, he had occasion to meet DG Rakesh Kumar and his colleague
Ms Kehkashan Tyagi(ie.PW­12). Moreover, ICCR had invited him in the
year 2004­05 to be one of Experts for empanelment of artists from
various fields including puppetry. The other experts in the Committee
were Mr. Sonatake, Mr. Mukherjee, Mr. Grover. In the folder provided,
some names were noticed carrying dots/asterisk (*) mark and he was
told by Mr. Grover by asking from Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi that those
names carrying dots/asterisk marks are to be given 'special
consideration'. The VCDs were viewed by him, however, he had given
remarks of 'approval' in respect of Puppet groups, since he was expert
in that field and for the remaining applicants, the columns of remark
were left blank by him, it includes remark column of serial no. 40*
Mehak Punjab Di which was also 'left blank'. However, he signed the
final list (Ex. PW­45/A read with Ex. PW­11/T) at Point­B, carrying name
of group 'Mehak Punjab Di' at serial no. 40* of 'approved', but he
explains that he had not seen its VCDs nor approved it but he signed it
because he was a member of Experts Sub­Committee and it is usual
procedure that all members of committee were to sign final list even if
they had not seen the performance of all the artists. He signed the list
at his residence, since he had attended the Expert Committee for 1 ½
day [There was no cross­examination of this witness]. (xiii) PW­47 Sh. Yog Sunder Desai, Expert of Folk dance artists ­to
prove that he operates a dance group in the name and style of M/s
Indian Revival Group, he worked as expert for selection of artists of folk
dance categories of various schools and cultural organisations, it is not
empaneled with ICCR. He was one of the experts in the Expert Sub
Committee, who viewed VCDs of aspirants for empanelment and

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 37 of156 ]
 remarks were recorded by him in the folder provided (Ex. PW­24/B2)
and he had signed it; the name of Mehak Punjab Di is at serial no. 40*
(in Ex. PW­24/A at Point­A being original, its copy is in folder Ex. PW­
24/B2). The performance of Mehak Punjab Di was viewed in the VCD
played, it was found 'not up to the mark' and the group was not
approved for empanelment but later it was assigned remarks 'OK' (at
Point­Q176 in Ex. PW­24/A) on the request of DG Rakesh Kumar, since
he told that the group was very well known to him and a near person,
that is why 'OK proficient' was written by PW47 vis a vis he does not
know as to who had erased the original remarks in pencil 'not upto the
mark'. Further, he signed the final list (Ex. PW­45/A read with Ex. PW­
11/T) at Point­C, but he could not identify accused in court because of
old age. On court query, PW­47 explained that he has no reason to
concede to the request of Rakesh Kumar by replying 'aisee hi' ('just like
that'). [He was cross­examined from the view that approval of Mehak
Punjab Di group was never changed by him and it was initially found
'OK proficient' vis a vis PW­47 is not real Yog Sunder Desai because
real Yog Sunder Desai had died in the year 2009, as obituary had
appeared in several newspapers, which he had denied]. (xiv) PW­49 Sh. Prem Matiyani, Director, Song & Drama Division,
Soochna Bhawan, Delhi - to prove that in the year 2005 he was posted
as Director - Song & Drama Division, Soochna Bhawan, Lodhi Road,
Delhi. In August 2005 he was invited as an expert of Sub­Committee
formed by ICCR for empanelment of artists and groups in the category
of folk dance, songs and drama. He was provided with a folder for
remarks. VCDs of group/artists were played before the members of
committee. He was also Director of applicant Group of Song & Drama
Division of aspirant at serial no.10 in list Ex. PW­49/A. The other list of
the group (Ex. PW­49/B), Mehak Punjab Di is at serial no. 40*. Further,
to prove that he had given remarks 'not upto the mark' initially against
the name of Mehak Punjab Di but later­on he wrote the remarks
'proficient'. {PW­49 had resiled from his statement to CBI and he was
cross­examined on behalf of State, he denied that at the first instance
he had found performance of Mehak Punjab Di 'not upto the mark' but
he reaffirmed that it were his initial remarks 'proficient' were endorsed
by him as it was tick (√) marked}. (xv) PW­37 Sh. Arjun Chand, Banquet and Restaurant Captain, Hotel
Zimindara - to prove that in the year 2003 he had joined and start
working as Banquet and Restaurant Captain at Hotel Zimindara, the
Zimindara Dhaba is also adjacent to Hotel Zimindara, both are owned
by the same owner. Further to prove the record of entries made in the
register from 19.04.2005 to 05.12.2005 for establishing that
approver/PW­4 Hargulab and accused Balwinder Bawa were frequent
and regular visitors there vis a vis the room was booked on various
dates (entries at Point­X, Point­Y, Point­Z, Point­Z1 to Point­Z7 of
register Ex. PW­37/A). The room was also booked by Hargulab on
30.08.2005, 31.08.2005, 01.09.2005 and 02.09.2005 (having entries at
Point Z4 to Z7) vis a vis there was function organised at Zimindara
Hotel on 01.09.2005 and arrangement of lunch at Banquet hall on
02.09.2005 since Bhangra dance was organised, for which charges
were paid by Hargulab Singh; the person stayed and checked out on
03.09.2005. PW­37 says he was present throughout the Bhangra
programme of which still photography and video­graph coverage was
done, the still photographs are Ex. PW­4/E1 to Ex. PW­4/E39, in which
photograph of Balwinder @ Bawa is at Point­X in a photograph [Ex.
PW­4/E7 (D­124/7)] and also photograph of Hargulab Singh [at Mark­X
in photograph Ex. PW­4/E25 (D­124/25)] as participants in the
performance. The record of register of hotel was seized by memo Ex.
PW­37/D. [This witness was cross­examined for establishing that the
record of register is neither proper nor in sequence but in random vis a
vis the same is not original/regular register but got prepared by CBI]. (xvi) PW­33 Sh. Surender Kumar, videoer, Ludhiana - to prove that
from 2003 to 2007 he was employed as a videographer with Lilly Studio,
Kocchar Market, Model Town, Ludhiana, it belongs to Mr. Gyan Chand
Singla. He was asked by his employer in September 2005 to cover the
function at the basement of Zimindara Dhaba, where he alongwith
Rahul Singla (son of Mr. Gyan Chand Singla) covered the event by way
of still photography and video, it was through Mr. Praveen Kumar,
Drummer (Dholwala). Further, PW­33 had covered the event by videoy
and Rahul Singla covered it by still photography of Bhangra function, for
which photographs as well as CDs were prepared; Rahul Singla had
developed the photographs from the computer of his studio and the
same were handed over to CBI, by making signature by PW33 overleaf
of each photograph (Ex. PW­4/E1 to Ex. PW­4/E39). In addition, CD of

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 39 of156 ]
 the function was also handed over to the CBI vide memo Ex. PW­33/A.
The CD was also signed by him. [PW­33 was cross­examined to
challenge his testimony that neither Gyan Chand Singla was engaged
by anyone or the envelope was printed by name M/s Vaahu Photo
Colour Lab vis a vis he had not taken any photographs on behalf of Lilly
Studio]. (xvii) PW­35 Sh. Parveen Kumar, Business, M/s Parveen Musical
Group (Punjabi Dhol) - to prove that he operates a shop under the
name M/s Parveen Musical Group (Punjabi Dhol) at Kochar Market,
Ludhiana and he works for Bhangra Group for Punjabi Dhol (Drummer)
besides coaching of Punjabi Dhol to the persons interested. Moreover,
he also teaches playing of drum (Dhol) to students in school and
colleges. In the year 2005­2006 Hargulab Singh and Harbhajan Kohli
visited him for musical function for Punjabi Dhol and for Bhangra, the
said Hargulab Singh and Harbhajan Kohli had brought eight to ten
persons with them for Bhangra, the said persons practiced with Punjabi
Dhol with PW­35 at Punjab Bhawan, Ludhiana for a period of eight to
ten days, Harbhajan Kohli used to sing and operate Tumbi. Moreover, on 01.09.2005 he also performed at Zimindara Dhaba,
which was witnessed by one Lady from Delhi, the performance was not
liked by her. Thus on 02.09.2005, he alongwith other members in the
group had given another performance at Zimindara Dhaba, which was
liked by her. Hargulab had also engaged someone for videoy from Lilly
Studio of Kocchar Market, to cover the event of performance and Lilly
Studio is in the neighborhood of PW­35. The videos and photographs
were handed over to the group. PW­35 had VCDs (Ex.PW­9/B1 and Ex.
PW­9/B2) from Lilly Studio and handed over the same to CBI vide
memo Ex. PW­35/A, both the CDs were also signed by PW­35. [PW­35
was not cross­examined on behalf of any of the accused]. (xviii) PW­25 Sh. Vipin Kumar - to prove that in the year 2005­06 he
was a student and in par­time he used to play dance in dance groups.
He knew Pawan Kumar (i.e PW3), who also used to dance in his own
group and Pawan Kumar used to join/engage PW­25 in dance groups.
In September 2005 on the call of Pawan Kumar for dance performance
at Zimindara Hotel, Sanewal, PW­5 gave dance performance in the
basement, he was given Rs. 350/­ for performance at the said
Zimindara Hotel which lasted for 1½ hours. [He was not cross­

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 40 of156 ]
 examined on behalf of any of the accused]. ... ... (xix) PW­48 Sh. Robin Kumar, Director of M/s Interline Travel Pvt. Ltd
Delhi - to establish that he was Director of M/s Interline Travel Pvt. Ltd,
Ansal Chamber­II, Bhikaji Cama Place, New Delhi, it is on the panel of
ICCR since 1995 for booking of air tickets primarily and sometime for
train tickets. In the year 2002, Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi, Programming
Officer OCD (PW­12) used to occasionally contact for getting ticket
booked and he had also met her for 2­3 times for official purposes.
Similarly, on 29.08.2005, he received a telephonic call from PW­12 and
she requisitioned train ticket for Ludhiana from New Delhi for
01.09.2005 and return by Shatabdi Train to Delhi for 02.09.2005, she
also apprised that she is going to Ludhiana with DG, ICCR. Accordingly,
PW­48 booked train ticket to and fro through Manan Travels, the tickets
were received from Manan Travels on 30.08.2005 and the same were
sent to Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi alongwith the invoice (invoice dated
30.08.2005 Ex. PW­8/A for Rs. 1150/­, Delhi­Ludhiana­Delhi) [the
witness has not been cross­examined on behalf of any of the accused]. (xx) PW­8 Sh. Tapan Kumar Das, Programme Officer (Accounts),
ICCR, New Delhi - to prove that he was working as a Programme
Officer (Accounts) during 2005­06 in ICCR and there were three travel
agents [M/s Carlsons, M/s Air Travel Bureau and M/s Interline Pvt. Ltd.]
on panel of ICCR through whom they used to arrange trains, bus or air
tickets for the officers of ICCR or for members of any group sponsored
by ICCR. A bill (Ex. PW­8/A) in respect of Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi for
Delhi­Ludhiana­Delhi was raised by M/s Interline Pvt. Ltd., it was
sanctioned and after grant of sanction certificate, the department had
released the payment (Ex. PW­8/B and Ex. PW­8/C). Similarly, another
bill dated 31.08.2005 (Ex. PW­6/A for Rs. 2170/­, for Shatabdi Train
Delhi­Ludhiana­Delhi Ec. Class) was pertaining to Rakesh Kumar,
which was also mentioned in register in outgoing cultural division of
ICCR (register Ex. PW­8/B, page no. 73). Further, PW­12 Ms.
Kehkashan Tyagi had sent a fax message to PW­72 Sudhanshu
Pandey under her signature for necessary arrangement for the group
(Ex.PW­8/E). Further, to prove that fax message (Ex. PW­8/F) of cash
account was received by ICCR from Berlin with respect to payment

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 41 of156 ]
 made by Embassy in the Berlin towards DA to the members of the
group sponsored by ICCR. (xxi) PW­6 Sh. Sandeep Nanda, Earlier Assistant Manager
(Accounts),Air Travel Bureau Ltd., Delhi - to prove that during 2005­
2006 he was working as Assistant Manager (Accounts) with Air Travel
Bureau Ltd., Delhi, who was providing the services of air tickets and
train tickets to its customers. ICCR, Ministry of External Affair and other
government departments were in its panel in the year 2005­2006, it
used to provide requisite tickets and payments used to be tendered by
way of cheques. The tickets were got arranged on request of ICCR, for
which bill (Ex. PW­6/A) was raised and payment was tendered against
receipt (Ex. PW­6/A). [PW­6 was cross­examined to confront the
witness that it was not known whom the amount was tendered in cash
vis a vis the name of passenger was not mentioned in the copy of ticket
part of receipt Ex. PW­6/A]. (xxii) PW­51 Sh. S. Nangia, Admn. Officer (PA­1), Ministry of External
Affairs, New Delhi - to prove that in the year 2006 he was posted as
Admn. Officer (PA­1), Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi, when
Rakesh Kumar was posted as Additional/Special Secretary in Ministry
of External Affairs. Rakesh Kumar was sent on deputation to ICCR in
the year 2005 as Director General. ICCR is a body under administrative
control of Ministry of External Affairs. In the year 2006 the said Rakesh
Kumar had written a letter dated 31.01.2006 (Ex. PW­11/R) informing
the Ministry that he had undertaken an official journey from New Delhi
to Ludhiana on 01.09.2005 to 02.09.2005 vis a vis waiver of production
of original train tickets for the purposes of settlement of TA claim and
original were misplaced, he was granted waiver by official order dated
09.06.2006 (Ex. PW­11/S). TA bill was submitted and an amount of Rs.
1570/­ was allowed vide cheque no. 23543 dated 24.02.2006 by note
(Ex. PW­51/A), an amount of Rs. 170/­ was reimbursed for daily
allowance for one day and not for reimbursement of the ticket. The
ticket was not provided by Ministry of External Affairs since Rakesh
Kumar was on deputation to ICCR. PW­51 opines that Rakesh Kumar
was required to take approval from any person before leaving
headquarter for proceeding on official tour but vis a vis he was not sure
whether DG of ICCR was required to take permission of ICCR, the post
of President of ICCR was superior to the post of Director General [he

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 42 of156 ]
 was cross­examined that the travel expenditure of an employee of MEA
on deputation with ICCR would be debited in the accounts of MEA, the
salary was debited in the account of ICCR. He was also cross­
examined with regard to waiver on production of original tickets etc.]

(xxiii) PW­68 Sh. Ashok Das, DDG (Programmes), ICCR, New Delhi -
to prove that in the year 2006 when he was posted as DDG
(Programmes), ICCR, New Delhi and holding the charge of Vigilance
Officer, certain information was sought and consequent to such
requisitions, he wrote letter dated 11.12.2006 (Ex. PW­68/A) with regard
to prior or post approval for visit to Ludhiana of Rakesh Kumar and PW­
68 apprised that there was no reference of purchase of any train ticket
to Ludhiana and back. In addition, certain other records/documents
were also forwarded/provided to CBI vide letter dated 01.05.2007 (Ex.
PW­68/B). PW­68 is also of the opinion that all government servants
have to seeks permission before leaving station and also Rakesh
Kumar, Director General ICCR should have sought permission of
President, ICCR before leaving station for Ludhiana and as per record
he had sought such permission when he had gone to other occasions. ... ... (xxiv) PW­15 Sh. Mahender Kumar Sehgal, Assistant Programme
Officer, ICCR, New Delhi ­ to prove that during 2003­2005 he was
working as Assistant Programme Officer, ICCR, New Delhi, at that time
Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi (PW­12) was Programme Officer in ICCR and
accused Rakesh Kumar was Director General, Mr. M.S. Grover was
Deputy Director General.. Further, his duties were included of junior
managerial work as instructed by Section Incharge. OCD Section of
ICCR used to deal with outgoing cultural delegation and there is a
separate section AVR which deals with empanelment of various cultural
group. Further he has been got examined with regard to relevant
documents and episodes in respect of empanelment of cultural group
as well as the role performed by various persons, the plan of action for
the year 2005­2006 (Ex. PW­11/DX) pertains to festival of folk dance in
Germany, it was prepared by Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi, the then Sectional
Head. Cultural Group Mehak Punjab Di was empaneled in August 2005.
It was evening of 31.08.2005 when Kehkashan Tyagi visited the Section
looking after empanelment to collect letter of empanelment in favour of
Mehak Punjab Di but till then, officials had gone and she asked PW­15

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 43 of156 ]
 to take out print of 'letter of empanelment' from the computer installed in
that Section. By following her instruction, PW­15 took out print of said
letter and handed it over to her. Further to prove certificate/bill for train
fair (Ex. PW­8/C) which was counter signed by PW­15 at Point­C as
well as by Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi at Point­B and finally by Deputy
Director General (Sh. R.M. Aggarwal) at Point­D.

 On 01.09.2005 Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi had visited Ludhiana
alongwith Rakesh Kumar to see the performance of Mehak Punjab Di
and on 05.09.2005, while coming back from Ludhiana, PW­15 was
asked to fill up the official passport form for the members of Mehak
Punjab Di, when Kehkashan Tyagi, Rakesh Kumar and Shiv Kumar
were present. Further, to establish writing/signature on various
documents/forms/letters (Ex. PW­4/A, Ex. PW­2/T, Ex. PW­12/M, Ex.
PW­2/F, Ex. PW­12/K, Ex. PW­12/K1, Ex. PW­12/N, Ex. PW­12/O, Ex.
PW­12/P, Ex. PW­2/G, Ex. PW­2/H, Ex. PW­2/i, Ex. PW­2/J, Ex. PW­
2/K, Ex. PW­2/L, Ex. PW­4/L, Ex. PW­12/B, Ex. PW­12/R, Ex. PW­12/S,
Ex. PW­12/T, Ex. PW­12/U, Ex. PW­12/W, Ex. PW­12/X, Ex. PW­
12/X1, Ex. PW­12/Y, Ex. PW­14/A, Ex. PW­15/A) by the officers
(particularly Naresh Chandra & Kehkashan Tyagi) in the ICCR
department as well as by others. Lastly, the passports of Hargulab and
others, approval of quotation of least quoted rates of M/s Karlsons
Megamlift and financial sanction of total estimate expenditure. The
passport of all the members were sent to Germany embassy for
endorsement of visa, which PW­15 took it personally and collected
passports with visa note on them, which he had handed over to Ms.
Kehkashan Tyagi as well as to identify the record of political clearance
for sending 15 members cultural group from India to Berlin. On
16.09.2005 he was informed by Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi that few
members of the group Mehak Punjab Di had defected in Germany and
remaining six are coming back to India, thus on her direction on
17.09.2005, PW­15 went ot Airport to receive the six persons of group
Mehak Punjab Di, who returned India from Germany, they were brought
back to office of ICCR, from whom official passport of those six
members and the utilised tickets were taken and handed over to Ms.
Kehkashan Tyagi. [PW­15 was cross­examined with regard to
administrative aspects and area of his working as well as that in the
plan of action for the year 2005­2006, there is item of festival of Folk
Dance in Germany]. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 44 of156 ]
 (xxv) PW­16 Sh. Mohd. Umar, Assistant Programme Officer (OCD),
ICCR, New Delhi - to prove that he was working as Assistant
Programme Officer in ICCR and in the year 2005, he was in OCD
Section, where Ms Kehkashan Tyagi was Programme Officer, M.S.
Grover was Deputy DG and Rakesh Kumar was Director General as
well as PW­15 Mahender Kumar Sehgal was also posted as Assistant
Programme Officer in OCD Section. The references for empanelment of
artists used to be received from AVR Section. He gives details as to
how requirement of any cultural group in particular country is initiated or
considered as well as the process to be followed for preparing plan of
action for a particular year, which is to be finalized by the Programme
Committee. He also narrates about the coordination with Indian
Embassy, daily allowances for the members to be sent abroad, the
scale of Rs. 7000/­ per performance for leader of group and Rs. 1500/­
per performance for other members vis a vis when cultural group are
sent abroad, sponsorship of ICCR, if any of the member wants to give a
private performance, it could be with permission of ICCR. There was
item of festival of Folk dances in Germany in the plan of action (Ex. PW­
11/DX, page no.3) and expenditure for sending the cultural group to be
incurred by ICCR. The proposed budget (Ex. PW­16/A) for group
Mehak Punjab Di was Rs. 8,79,320/­ to be incurred was prepared by
PW­16, the proposed budget was on the direction of Ms. Kehkashan
Tyagi, Programme Oficer, it was approved by accused Rakesh Kumar.
PW­16 was obeying the direction of Programme Officer Ms. Kehkashan
Tyagi during the absence of other Assistant/PW­15, he is acquainted
with the writing of PW­15, which he identifies on the note sheets Ex.
PW­16/B. [He was cross­examined on behalf of accused Rakesh that
while sending the cultural group abroad nominated for performance,
seniority of the group is not to be looked into, even a single group may
be nominated/sponsored by ICCR for giving performance in a single
country]. (xxvi) PW­17 Sh. Soji Benjamin (LDC), ICCR, New Delhi - to prove that
in the year 2005, he was LDC, after his promotion from peon, and Ms.
Kehkashan Tyagi was posted as Programme Officer with ICCR. In
September 2005, Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi called PW­17 as certain
photographs of group Mehak Punjab Di were required to be scanned to
be sent to Indian Embassy in Berlin and on her instructions, he scanned
the photographs of members of group Mehak Punjab Di and sent the

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 45 of156 ]
 same to Indian Embassy, Berlin, she was using her personal e­mail ID.
Moreover, PW­17 also typed letter (Ex. PW­17/A) for seeking political
clearance of group Mehak Punjab Di, which was signed by Rakesh
Kumar and political clearance was received by letter addressed to
Rakesh Kumar (Ex. PW­17/B). (xxvii) PW­14 Sh. Naresh Chandra, LDC, ICCR - to prove that in the
year 2005 he was also posted as LDC in Outgoing Cultural Delegation
of ICCR, when Mahender Sehgal/PW­15, Mohd. Umar/PW­16 and Soji
Benjami, PW­17 were also posted and Sh. Rakesh Kumar was Director
General. PW­14 narrates about his duties, which includes typing work
and preparation of official passports, PW­17 Soji Benjamin also used to
do same kind of work. PW­15 Mahender Kumar Sehgal had handed
over application forms to PW­14 for preparation of official passports,
PW­14 carried that assignment and it was for issuance of official
passports for visit of group Mehak Punjab Di abroad for that duration
and he also filled the necessary certificate, which were handed over to
Kehkashan Tyagi who signed the same. PW­14 further narrates about
the preparation of officials passport or surrender certificate in his writing
(viz Ex. PW­12/O, Ex. PW­12/P, Ex. PW­12/S, Ex. PW­12/T, Ex. PW­
12/L, Ex. PW­12/W, Ex. PW­12/X, Ex. PW­12/X1, Ex. PW­2/G, Ex. PW­
12/G, Ex. PW­4/K, Ex. PW­12/L, Ex. PW­2/I, Ex. PW­12/U, Ex. PW­5/J,.
Ex. PW­12/B, Ex. PW­12/Y, Ex. PW­2/H, Ex. PW­12/R, Ex. PW­2/E, Ex.
PW­12/M, Ex. PW­2/F, Ex. PW­12/N, Ex. PW­2/K) at the specified
points as well as the writings of others. Similarly, he deposed about
other documents in respect of members of group Mehak Punjab Di,
which were in his cognizance. [He was cross­examined about the area
of his duty as well as the sending of members abroad for cultural
performance and other related things never used to remain in his
custody or possession and also about specific noting at Point­X on Ex.
PW­11/C in respect of budget estimate, which PW­40 was not aware
about]. (xxviii) PW­28 Sh. Biraja Prasad, Under Secretary, Europe West
Division, Ministry of External Affairs­ to prove that during 2005­2007 he
was posted as Under Secretary, Europe West Division in Ministry of
External Affairs and he was working as Desk Officer for Germany and
France, his responsibility was to see the overall relations between India
and two countries. He further deposed about the role of his department

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 46 of156 ]
 as well as that when any department has to send any official delegation
abroad, then the department forwards the request for political clearance
from political angle through Ministry of External Affairs for that
respective country where the delegation is proposed to visit. By letter
dated 5.9.2005 (Ex. PW­14/A) Sh. Rakesh Kumar, DG ICCR, was sent
in respect of grant of political clearance from political angel for visiting
Germany was communicated, qua the delegation list which was
received with the letter (Ex. PW­15/A). [He was cross examined from
different angels but precisely due procedure for political clearance was
followed in case of group Mehak Punjab Di and there was no objection
from the Indian Embassy in Germany]. (xxix) PW­41 Mohd. Khaliq, Asst. Private Secretary to DG, ICCR­ to
establish that in the year 2005 he was Assistant Private Secretary to
Rakesh Kumar, DG, ICCR. Shiv Kumar Sharma was friend of Rakesh
Kumar, he used to visit office frequently and he used to visit to Rakesh
Kumar in the office. The application for empanelment with ICCR of
artist/groups used to be received in DG's office by post as well as by
hand, PW­41 was dealing with the correspondence and used to forward
it to the concerned section. If some person or group knew Sh. Rakesh
Kumar, he himself used to take application there and then it was
marked to concerned section. Mr. Sunil Bhalla was also looking after
the work of empanelment in the year 2003. After empanelment of
artist/group, then it was the job of Ms. Kahkasha Tyagi, Programming
Officer to send them abroad, however, the financial power of sending
the group was with DG, ICCR and President, ICCR. The office
telephone number of Rakesh Kumar (as DG, ICCR) was 233370471
and 233378103, his mobile phone number was 9810575625 and
residence number was 6863030. He was connecting the phone
numbers instructed by Sh. Rakesh Kumar from time to time. He further
deposed about the empanelment of groups and artists that it was on the
recommendation of Experts Sub­committee, which used to be
forwarded by Dy. DG (Program) before DG and then before President,
ICCR. On 1.9.2005 Dr. Karan Singh had joined as President of ICCR,
he was welcomed by the staff of ICCR. On 1.9.2005 accused Rakesh
Kumar asked PW­41 that he is going to Ludhiana for official work by
train, PW­41 arranged official vehicle for station and it was instructed
that PW­41 will be informed of arrival and for vehicle at railway station,
PW­41 also learned that Ms. Kehkasha Tyagi had also left for Ludhiana

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 47 of156 ]
 on that day. PW­41 was left with instruction that in case anybody calls
Rakesh Kumar inclusive of calls of his wife, then PW­41 should not tell
them about Rakesh Kumar is in Ludhiana but to simply say as if that
PW­41 does not know about Rakesh Kumar. Further, on 02.09.2005,
Sh. Rakesh Kumar called PW­41 on mobile phone by advising of his
return and also asked whether there was any call by his wife, although
PW­41 had received 2/3 calls from Rakesh Kumar from Ludhiana, in
one of the calls he asked to confirm whether PW­41 had bought toys
from Sadar Bazar asked for. Rakesh Kumar had gone to Ludhiana to
see the performance of groups and artists already screened by the
members, there was no need for Director General to see the
performance. Later on a fax message was received from Indian Embassy,
Berlin about defection of 9 members of group Mehak Punjab Di but at
that time Rakesh Kumar was already relieved and in his place, Mr.
Pawan Kumar Verma (i.e. PW7) had taken over charge of DG, ICCR.
PW­41 was also asked to identify about signature of officers namely
Rakesh Kumar, Kehkashan Tyagi (Ex. PW­12/I, Ex. PW­12/G, Ex. PW­
12/H, Ex. PW­11/F, Ex. PW­15/A, Ex. PW­41/A) vis a vis PW­41 had no
personal knowledge how the empanelment of Mehak Punjab Di was
cleared by Expert Sub­ Committee or by Rakesh Kumar. [PW­41 was
cross­examined about the hierarchy in the office of ICCR as well as
there was no illegality about the about empanelment groups/artists and
there was no President, ICCR posted at the time when application of
Mehak Punjab Di was received for empanelment and approval by the
expert committee or Shiv Kumar was not having friendly relations with
Rakesh Kumar]. (xxx) PW­42 Sh. Ramesh Narula, Assistant Programmer Officer, ICCR ­
to establish that he was posted as Asstt. Program Officer in ICCR, he
used to report to Sh. Rakesh Kumar, DG. PW­42 and PW­41 used to
assist Rakesh Kumar in his personal engagement/meetings etc. Shiv
Kumar used to frequently visit office to see Rakesh Kumar as well as
Rakesh Kumar was also frequently talking on telephone, PW­42 used to
connect the official phone. PW­42 also deposed about the phone
numbers in the office of Rakesh Kumar, joining of Dr. Karan Singh as
President, ICCR in September 2005 besides there was a meeting of
Expert Sub­Committee in August 2005 for empanelment of

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 48 of156 ]
 groups/artists in which Sh. M.S. Grover, Dy. Director General was
Chairman of the said Committee. He further deposed about the minutes
of meeting to be put up before DG, ICCR and thereafter, President,
ICCR, which was also applicable in the meeting held in August 2005.
PW­42 further narrates about minutes of 24.08.2005 by Sh. M.S.
Grover, Deputy DG in respect of minutes of Expert Committee meeting
held between 02.08.2005 to 24.08.2005 for empanelment of artists in
different forms for seeking approval of President, ICCR and also about
copy of note dated 25.08.2005 by Sh. R.M. Aggarwal put up before DG
Rakesh Kumar, who approved the same and directed for issuance of
letter to the empaneled artists (Ex. PW­24/C and Ex. PW­11/T) and
when he was asked about both the minutes, he explained that perhaps
Mr. M.S. Grover was transferred from ICCR in August 2005 {Ld.
Predecessor had recorded demeanor of this witness that he smiled after
answer while contacting looking/contacting to accused Rakesh Kumar}
by further supplementing that minutes of Experts Sub Committee held
in August 2005 should have been placed before President, ICCR by DG
Rakesh Kumar but he did not do so nor he had any power to approve
the meetings without forwarding it to the President, ICCR. {PW­41 was
cross­examined on behalf of State on all aspects either with regard to
scope of duties of PW­42 or noting dated 24.08.2005. He was also
cross­examined with regard to out station official tour or permission to
leave headquarter could be without the permission of President, ICCR
or Foreign Secretary. He was also cross­examined in respect of other
internal affairs in ICCR or certain procedures to be followed}

 [He was also cross­examined on behalf of accused persons to
challenge his testimony about the hierarchy as well as the tenure of
President of ICCR had expired in May 2005 and thence Dr. Karan Singh
took over as President, ICCR on 01.09.2005 and there was no
President w.e.f 21.08.2005 to 31.08.2005, he had not seen personally
any minutes of the meeting of Experts Sub­committee having sent to
President or Vice President of ICCR or it was received back after
approval. His testimony has also been challenged during his cross­
examination on other aspects]. (xxxi) PW­43 Sh. Balbir Singh Negi, UDC in Dispatch Section, ICCR -
to prove that he was posted as UDC in Dispatch Section of ICCR, Azad
Bhawan, where two dispatch registers used to be maintained, one of

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 49 of156 ]
 them was for posting outgoing dak which are to be dispatched outside
Delhi and other was for local outgoing Dak, however, each letter is
dispatched by number, which was to be recorded on the envelope. A
letter having no. 2508/2005­registered (Ex. PW­43/A) was sent by post,
containing letter dated 31.08.2005 (Ex. PW­24/E, empanelment of
Mehak Punjab Di Group addressed to Sh. Hargulab Singh under the
signature of Sh. R.M. Aggarwal) was received back undelivered, for
which endorsement at Point­X for AVR Section is mentioned; the said
no. 2408/05 on the envelope was written by PW­43. [There was no
cross­examination of this witness by any of the accused]. ... ... (xxxii) PW­5 Sh. Debnath Shaw, Joint Secretary (CNV) & CVO, Ministry
of External Affairs - to prove that sanction order dated 10.12.2007 (Ex.
PW­5/K, u/s 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 ) to prosecute
accused Rakesh Kumar. In the year 2007 he was posted as Joint
Secretary (CNV) & CVO, Ministry of External Affairs, during his that
tenure a file was put up before him, it comprised of FIR registered
alongwith record of investigation carried by CBI, including the statement
of witnesses recorded by them during investigation. He had gone
through the file and applied his independent mind and after filing
material sufficient on record for proceedings against Rakesh Kumar,
Director General and after making certain observation, the file was
placed before Disciplinary Authority, Minister of External Affairs and
then Minister of External Affairs applied his mind and issued directions
to prosecute accused Rakesh Kumar. On that basis, PW­5 passed the
sanction order u/s 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act,1988 to
prosecute Rakesh Kumar. He further explains that all such material was
also placed before the then Minister of External Affairs, it was also
considered before passing the sanction order. [He was cross­examined
on various expects particularly entire material was not brought and put
up before him and also the disciplinary authority but a draft sanction
order prepared by CBI and just noting sheets (Ex. PW­5/DX and Ex.
PW­5/DY) were prepared vis a vis there was no specific sanction
accorded by the Disciplinary Authority nor sanction order Ex. PW­5/A
bears the signature of the then Minister for External Affairs]. (xxxiii) PW­13 Sh. Satya Singh Bhatt, Peon, ICCR - to prove that he
was LDC in ICCR in the year 2006, his initial appointment was of peon

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 50 of156 ]
 in the year 1985. He was posted in the Maintenance Section of ICCR,
Azad Bhawan. Sh. Rakesh Kumar was Director General in ICCR, the
telephone numbers installed in office room were having connection no.
23378103 & 23370471, a fax machine was also installed in his office
zone which was connected with the telephone line no. 23378647. Mr.
M.S. Grover (i.e.PW73) was having telephone number 23379249, the
telephone installed in DDG Administration was 23370228, the telephone
installed on the table of Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi (i.e.PW12) was
23379226 and telephone installed at the table of Sh. Sunil Bhalla (ie.
PW59), Programming Officer was 23370249. PW­13 had handed over
ICCR telephone list to CBI (Ex. PW­13/A, four sheets showing the room
numbers with telephone numbers with extension and fax by designation
wise). [There was no cross­examination of this witness by any of the
accused]. (xxxiv) PW­27 Sh. Sant Lal, Chief Accounts Officer (Coordination), New
Delhi - to prove that he was Chief Accounts Officer from October 2004­
January 2007 in Central Area, MTNL, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New
Delhi, the nature of duties were including maintenance of call detail
record in respect of telephones installed in Central Delhi area, which
was being maintained in his office having territorial jurisdiction over
Central Delhi are, Kidwai Bhawan, Delhi. The telephone numbers being
with digits '233' used to fall under Central Delhi area for which record
was maintained in his office. He wrote letter dated 17.12.2005 (Ex. PW­
27/A) to ABO, Central in respect of call detail record pertaining to
telephone nos. 23378103, 233370471, 23379249, 23370228,
23379226, 23370249, 23378783, 23378647, 23379509 for the period
August 2005 to September 2005 and their respective call detail (Ex.
PW­27/B to Ex. PW­27/J) were also furnished, after getting it generated
from Yogender Kumar, Account Officer Coordination. [There was no
cross­examination of this witness by any of the accused]. (xxxv) PW­69 Sh. S.N. Srinivasan, Sr. Programme Director, ICCR, New
Delhi - to prove that he was Sr. Programme Director, ICCR, IP Estate,
New Delhi from 2006­2007 and he was in­charge of outgoing
delegations and empanelment of artists/groups for the said purpose. He
produced register (Ex PW­69/A) pertaining to details of outstation visit
by DG Rakesh Kumar from the year 2003. He also produced files
pertaining to empanelment of artists/groups which were opined by

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 51 of156 ]
 members of the Experts Sub­Committee in respect of empanelment of
artists/groups (Ex. PW­24/B1 to Ex. PW­24/B6). Moreover, a register is
also maintained by empanelment section in respect of details of CDs, if
any, sent by artists/groups, the relevant entry in respect of Mehak
Punjab Di was also entered in the register (its extract is Ex. PW­69/A)
[He was cross­examined that the register was not being maintained
properly because the certain pages were left blank or who authored
those entries and so on]. ... ... (xxxvi) PW­3 Sh. Pawan Kumar, Professional Dancer - to prove that he
is a professional dancer/artist although, he has no alliance to any
particular artists group. He may join any group as and when gets
contracts for dance performances, he performs in India and abroad. He
also knows Ms. Sonam Gill (i.e. Gurmeet Kaur i.e. daughter­in­law of
Balwinder Bawa), since she performed twice or thrice with him. In 2005
the said Sonam Gill contacted him on phone and asked him to arrange
another boy artist and a girl artist and also asked PW­3 to come to
Zimindara Dhaba for dance performance, thus PW­3 alongwith Mr.Vipin
and Ms. Sonia reached there, where he saw 6­7 boys and 4­5 girls
already present for Punjabi folk dance performance besides Balwinder
Bawa. In addition, Rakesh Kumar, Shiv Kumar Sharma and Hargulab
Singh were also present at Zimindara Dhaba to see the performance
besides one Ms. Tyagi. They had given performance. PW­3 was paid
Rs. 700/­, which he shared with Ms. Vipin. The other artist Sonia was
paid Rs. 1000/­ for her performance. Further, after one and two days, Sonam Gill called PW­3 at her
house, since her mother­in­law accused Balwinder @ Bawa wanted to
talk him. He went there and accused Balwinder @ Bawa asked him
whether he is interested for going abroad with a group for giving
performance on government sponsored trip but he will not get any
remuneration, he will receive commendation certificate. However, PW­3
requested that he will go only when he is paid Rs. 10,000/­ and he also
spoken to Sonia at the request of Balwinder @ Bawa but Sonia was
already preoccupied in another assignment abroad. Then another
dance artist Raji (i.e.PW55) was spoken by PW­3; Raji and her mother
had shown willingness. Then PW­3 alongwith Raji and her mother went
to accused Balwinder @ Bawa, Rs. 10,000/­ was asked as

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 52 of156 ]
 remuneration to join Raji in the dance performance abroad, she was
paid Rs. 5000/­ as advance but PW­3 was assured that advance will be
given to him in 2­3 days; Balwinder @ Bawa kept the passport of PW­3
(Ex. PW­3/A) and of Raji as well as got signature of Raji on some forms.
PW­3 was paid advance of Rs. 5000/­ with an assurance that balance
amount will be paid at Airport to PW­3 as well as to Ms. Raji. PW­3 has
also signed application form for issue of passport (Ex. PW­2/G). On
11.09.2005, PW­3 received telephone call of accused Balwinder to
leave that day itself for abroad, he joined others in tempo traveler and
then came to Delhi, where officers of ICCR namely Ms. Tyagi, Rakesh
Kumar and also Shiv Kumar met him. They handed over passport that
the official tour of London will be very beneficial. After staying in the
guest house in Delhi, on the following day they left for Delhi Airport,
where Shiv Kumar Sharma, Rakesh Kumar, Hargulab Singh and
Balwinder @ Bawa were present and one Sikh fellow, who was asked
that he can not accompany the group but Balwinder @ Bawa assured
that he will be sent in another flight on completion of documents. PW­3 further deposes about, that after reaching Berlin, as to
what state of affair took place from the moment accused Shiv Kumar
Sharma took passport of all of them, their stay in the guest house, stay
of Shiv Kumar Sharma in other hotel, defection of son of Hargulab
Singh on arrival in Berlin, then episode of defection of other members
of group vis a vis this information was immediately given to Shiv Kumar
Sharma. In the next morning some other members were not found, then
Shiv Kumar Sharma was also apprised of it. How PW­3 was treated
when he came back India/Delhi and then to his home in Punjab vis a vis
he was not paid his balance amount of Rs.5000/­ by accused Balwinder
@ Bawa till date. [PW­3 was cross­examined in detail to confront him
with his version as well as he was paid his entire remuneration and
professional charges vis a vis he had not seen or met Rakesh Kumar at
Zimindara Hotel nor Balwinder Bawa @ Bawa asked to join the
performing group at abroad]. (xxxvii) PW­55 Ms. Raji, Stage Artist ­ to establish that she is also
an artist, she performs at stage shows and dances at various kinds of
functions & parties for the last about 10 years. She came into contact to
PW­3 Pawan being in same profession and she alongwith Pawan had
also performed at Singapore. PW­3 Pawan contacted her in September

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 53 of156 ]
 2005 for trip to Europe for artist and also asked PW­55 that she may
join him, considering antecedents of Singapore, she consented. He also
disclosed that another artist Sonia, known to PW­55, was preoccupied
in her other trip. A sum of Rs. 10,000/­ was offered for the trip and PW­
55 was asked to reach the house of Sonam to finalise it, thus PW­55
alongwith her mother reached at residence of Sonam in Ranjit Singh
Nagar, where she was asked to handover her passport to Ms. Bawa,
mother­in­law of Sonam and she was given Rs. 5000/­ as an advance
and it was assured to pay remaining balance amount after return from
Europe. After sometime, she was asked by Pawan to join in the tempo
traveler for Delhi to go for trip at Europe. She reached Delhi with others
and reached in government office in Delhi and then flight was boarded
for Germany. In Berlin, Germany, it was government guest house and inmate of
room were Pawan, Sonam, her husband Saba and PW­55 and in
opposite to their room, the other inmates were Sukhbir and others were
accommodated at floor below the floor of others. There was rehearsal
for performance. Shiv Kumar was also there, who had disbursed DA of
50 Euro to each member of group. PW­55 further deposed as to how
Sonam and Saba left that room (where they were relaxing and
watching video of performance) stating they were feeling sleepy, then
PW­55 alongwith Pawan came to their room to sleep, they did not found
Sonam and Saba in the room, then PW­3 Pawan and PW­55 went to
the guest house lobby to check them, but they did not find them (Sonam
and Saba), immediately PW­3 informed Sukhbir Singh (i.e.PW57), who
further telephoned to Shiv Sharma apprising him of those facts.
However, Shiv Sharma did not turn up immediately. The next morning, it
was also noticed that many more boys were missing from the guest
house, which were told by Sukhbir Singh to Mr. Shiv Kumar Sharma but
Shiv Kumar Sharma was not perturbed by knowing, instead he asked
that there is a flight to be caught. Out of 15 persons, it is only six came back India. PW­55 further
narrates the episode as to how they were badly treated after arrival in
India, they managed to reach Ludhiana. She was also examined about
her passport and other record. She was not paid her balance amount of
Rs.5000/­ which was agreed for the trip. [She was cross­examined on
all counts to prove that neither she handed over her passport to

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 54 of156 ]
 Balwinder Bawa nor any advance of Rs. 5000/­ was given to her or to
challenge her testimony. She was also cross­examined on behalf of
other accused that she was under the pressure of CBI and that is why
she stood witness in the case]. (xxxviii) PW­57 Sh. Sukhvinder Singh - to prove that he operates
Events Management Company since 1985 and he has a cultural group
by name M/s Rangla and also M/s Sabrang Group besides the business
of air­conditioning. Further, he is a professional dancer and he gave
various performances for Punjab Academy, Sahitya Kala Parishad,
ICCR and other govt. bodies, he is also empaneled with ICCR from the
year 2003. He had also gone to North Korea, Thailand, Switzerland,
Germany for performances. It was 7/8th September 2005, when he
received a call from PW­12 Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi that a Bhangra group
of Ludhiana under the name Mehak Punjab Di is being sent to Berlin by
ICCR and they require services of technician, he had consented to go. It was 11.09.2005, when he went to ICCR, where a meeting took
place which was attended by accused Shiv Kumar Sharma, PW­12 Ms.
Tyagi and PW­57. After meeting, PW­57 was introduced by Ms. Tyagi to
Hargulab, who was leader of Bhangra Group Mehak Punjab Di. On
12.09.2004, the flight was boarded for Berlin and PW­57 accompanied
the others there. He further narrates as to how other officials at
Germany from High Commission were present there and they all were
welcomed vis a vis many formalities were completed, as to how
rehearsal and performance took place as well as the participants of
artists. He also deposed that three boys climbed the gate of guest
house and run away, consequently, PW­57 immediately telephoned to
Shiv Sharma in the night and also called High Commission on the next
morning, Shiv Sharma did not come to the guest house during the night
by just saying 'let us see'. Further, in the next morning when PW­57 was
supervising his work, someone informed him that three boys namely
Prabhjot Singh, Jagdeep Singh and Amanpreet Singh had left the
guest house and run away, again Shiv Kumar was informed
immediately and thereafter, Shiv Kumar Sharma, Mr. Pandey and local
police arrived at the guest house. His further deposition pertains to the
other internal affairs happened during their stay at Berlin as well as how
they came back India. When he was cross­examined on behalf of State,
he also named Sonam, Saba (husband of Sonam), Amarjeet Singh and

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 55 of156 ]
 Satnam who had run away from the guest house in Berlin, Germany.
[He was cross­examined on behalf of accused persons to establish that
he has heard the facts from others and not knowing personally and
because of these circumstances, he is not aware about immediate
complaints initiated on the part of Mr. Pandey in Berlin as well as by
Shiv Kumar Sharma]. (xxxix) PW­9 Ms. N (name withheld), Professional Dancer - to prove
that she was a professional dancer and she alongwith her fellow
dancers used to give performances in groups in the locality. Accused
Balwinder Bawa is her maternal aunt (Mami), she is also in the same
field. PW­9 alongwith PW­10 A(name withheld) at the instance of
Balwinder Bawa went to Zimindara Dhaba for giving dance
performance, they performed there; accused Rakesh Kumar and Shiv
Kumar Sharma were also present there and after conclusion of dance
programme at midnight, accused Balwinder Bawa and Hargulab Singh
asked PW­9 and also PW­10 to go with accused Rakesh Kumar and
Shiv Kumar for night, they were driven by Gurbhej Singh to a hotel. She
was subjected to sexual advances by Shiv Kumar which was resisted
by PW­9, then accused Shiv Kumar Sharma left the place, however,
when accused Rakesh Kumar made sexual advances but PW­9 started
crying; thence Rakesh Kumar made sexual relation with PW­10. In the
morning, PW­9 and PW­10 left the hotel, they were accompanied by
accused Gurbhej Singh and Balwinder Bawa. The events of
performance at Zimindara Dhaba was photographed, the pictures of
PW­9 are also in those photographs (Ex. PW­9/A1 to Ex. PW­9/A8),
event was also covered by videoy, its CD is also carrying her picture
(Ex. PW­9/B1 and Ex. PW­9/B2) as well as the CD of still photography
(Ex. PW­9/C). She was paid Rs. 1000/­ as remuneration by Balwinder
Bawa for her dance performance at Zimindara Dhaba. [She was cross­
examined to test her memory as well as there was nothing to cull out
sexual advances or to put her in the hotel to stay with Rakesh Kumar or
anything against Shiv Kumar vis a vis Gurbhej Singh had not taken
them to and fro in any vehicle]. (xL) PW­10 Ms. A (name withheld), Professional Dancer - to prove that
she was a professional dancer and Hargulab @ Gulab Singh
approached for giving dance performance, Balwinder Bawa was also
there. PW­9 & PW­10 were chosen for giving dance performance which

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 56 of156 ]
 were performed by them. PW­10 further deposes on the lines of PW­9
inclusive of the fact that there were sexual advances by accused
Rakesh Kumar, when she had resisted it, then he called Hargulab Singh
that she was not acceding to his advances, then Hargulab Singh
threatened PW­10 to concede to Rakesh Kumar to keep him happy so
that she may be sent abroad. Next day, accused Gurbhej Singh drove
alongwith Balwinder Bawa back. She is also confirming her pictures of
performance in photographs and CD (Ex. PW­9/A to Ex. PW­9/A6 and
Ex. PW­10/A; CD Ex. PW­9/D1, Ex. PW­9/D2 and Ex. PW­9/C) [She
was also cross­examined in detail alike PW­9 vis a vis to establish there
is no role or involvement of any accused]. ... ... (xLi) PW­18 Sh. Avtar Singh - to prove that his son Amarpreet Singh
was student of 12th standard in 2004­05 but he had interest in Bhangra
(dance) and he had desired to visit abroad. In the year 2005, Amarpreet
Singh requested his father/PW­18 that for his Bhangra/dance, he has to
visit Germany and he requires Rs. 60,000/­ and the amount is to be
paid to someone, who is facilitating his visit abroad/Germany for 15
days. PW­18 collected the amount from his brothers & sisters and then
given the amount to his son. Amarpreet Singh went Germany, he called
his father PW­18 that he reached Germany and also fine there but after
20­30 days of his visit there, he again called that he was doing some
work and then he never contacted PW­18 nor PW­18 knows
whereabouts of his son. [There is no cross­examination by any of the
accused persons]. (xLii) PW­20 Sh. Najar Singh, Agriculturist - for establishing that he was
an agriculturist in the year 2005­06, he has a son namely Jagdeep
Singh and a daughter namely Manjot Bawa. In the year 2005 his son
Jagdeep Singh requested him for a sum of Rs. 80,000/­ that he has to
pay the amount to someone, who is arranging his visit to Germany
being to be part of a Bhangra team (dance group), the amount was
arranged by PW­20 from the relatives. While leaving for Germany,
Jagdeep Singh told that he is visiting there for 15­20 days. His son also
called PW­20 on his reaching safely in Germany. But his son never
came back India although initially he had called PW­20 on telephone
once or twice. In the year 2003 he had also gone to Korea, when he

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 57 of156 ]
 took Rs. 30,000/­ from PW­20 but he came back India after two years.
[There is no cross­examination by any of the accused persons]. (xLiii) PW­21 Sh. Harjinder Singh - for establishing that he has two
sons namely Amanjeet Singh and Gurvinder, the former had studied
upto 10th/12th standard but the later studied upto 12th standard.
Amanjeet used to participate in the group having Bhangra activities after
his studies and he also wanted to visit abroad, he was asking financial
assistance for his visiting abroad. However, PW­21 came to know much
after of Amanjeet Singh went to Germany, he went without permission
and consent of PW­21 and he never called PW­21. [There is no cross­
examination by any of the accused persons]. (xLiv) PW­53 Sh. Pritam Singh, Farmer - to prove that Prabhjot Singh is
one of his four children, he could not qualify 12th class but he was good
Bhangra performer (dancer) and he was involved in playing dancing. He
had gone to Ludhiana when came to know in the newspaper that there
are some colleges, who may enrolle as the students of B.A without
clearing 12th class and Prabhjot Singh went there to joint the college in
the year 2005. But after sometime, PW­53 was told by his son that he is
a active member of Bhangra team in the college and the team is going
to Germany. PW­53 accompanied him to see the trial being held of the
said Bhangra team at Zimindara Dhaba, located on Ludhiana­Delhi
highway, where PW­53 come across a person namely Gulaba, who was
helping boys and girls to perform Bhangra and one inspecting team was
also there to view the Bhangra. One person namely Mr. Sharma was
also there. PW­53 talked to Gulaba that his son desires to go America
then Mr. Gulaba confirmed that after Bhangra team being returned from
Germany, it will be sent to America. Prabhjot Singh got stitched his cloth
and PW­53 had spent Rs. 25,000/­. Mr. Gulaba and Mr. Sharma had
not asked any money from PW­53 but PW­53 had given Rs. 5000/­ to
Gulaba after 15 days of trial, when Prabhjot Singh was to go to Delhi. PW­53 further narrates as to how his son had reached Delhi, he was
given Rs. 5000/­as traveling charges. Prabhjot Singh reached Germany,
he rang PW­53 that Bhangra team had performed in Germany vis a vis
Bhangra team had thereafter gone on their own ways and there was
nobody to arrange for Prabhjot Singh back from Germany. Prabhjot
Singh never returned to India but Prabhjot Singh keeps on telling PW­
53 as if he is in Belgium or in Germany. {PW­53 was cross­examined on

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 58 of156 ]
 behalf of State as he was resiling from his earlier statement to CBI as
well as saying that he was detained & insisted by CBI to say that
moneyh was paid by him in lieu of sending his son abroad}. [He was not
cross­examined on behalf of the accused persons]. ... ... (xLv) PW­39 Sh. Amarjeet Singh, Served Indian Army - to prove that he
had retired from Indian Army from the post of Subedar in 1999. In the
year 2005 he was operating PCO by the side of his house at Ram Tirath
Road, his son Satnam Singh was also assisting him. There was demise
of some relative in the year 2005, his family met accused Balwinder
Bawa who persuaded family of PW­39 to send Satnam Singh abroad as
there is no scope in India, then PW­39's wife convinced PW39 to send
Satnam Singh abroad through Balwinder Bawa. She (Balwinder Bawa)
also persuaded PW­39 on phone that his son Satnam Singh can be
sent abroad in Bhangra group. In order to satisfy himself, PW­39 went
to a hotel in Ludhiana in 2005, where Bhangra group was to perform,
who were expected to be sent abroad through Balwinder Bawa,
however, on the arrival of PW­39 at the venue in Ludhiana, the
performance was already over and then he visited at the house of
Balwinder Bawa, where number of boys and girls were present. Further,
to prove that Balwinder Bawa had demanded Rs. 5 lakhs for making
arrangement for sending Satnam Singh abroad; but because of financial
constraints, PW­39 expressed that he could not pay such amount, he
was asked to pay the possible amount and remaining can be paid once
Satnam Singh start earning abroad and PW­39 expressed that Satnam
Singh does not know Bhangra, he was assured that it is not so required
but Satnam Singh will be part of the Bhangra group. Therefore, at the
instance of Balwinder Bawa, the particulars of Satnam Singh were given
to her and a slip was also handed to him. His son applied for issuance
of passport. The passport number was also faxed to Balwinder Bawa. Later on a message was received from some officers from Delhi to
inspect/view performance of Bhangra group at Ludhiana and PW­39
was also asked by Balwinder Bawa to visit Ludhiana with that slip and
Rs.85,000/­. He went Ludhiana, Satnam Singh was already there, the
performance was at Zimindara hotel. A sum of Rs.85,000/­ was given
to Balwinder Bawa at her house. PW­39 further narrates about the state
of affairs as to how his son Satnam Singh reached Delhi and the

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 59 of156 ]
 harassment faced by his son, who came back Amritsar for want of
sending Satnam Singh abroad by accused by stating that he was not
selected, PW­39 came back to Amritsar separately. The application
form (Ex.PW­2/K) so filled in for issue of official passport (for visiting
Germany with the Bhangra group) for Satnam is not of Satnam Singh. (xlvi) PW­40 Sh. Satnam Singh, Business of fruit juice seller­ he is son
of PW­39 Amarjeet Singh and he has been examined to establish the
circumstances on the lines of PW­39 vis a vis as to how he came into
contact with Balwinder Bawa through Veero Devi, who is sister­in­law
(nanad) of sister of PW­14. He has also deposed that a sum of Rs.5
lakh was asked by Balwinder Bawa from the parents of PW­40, who
had expressed their financial constraints as well as PW­40 does not
know Bhangra, Balwinder Bawa had assured to pay balance amount
after start earning abroad and PW­40's father had paid Rs.85,000/­ to
Balwinder Bawa. Further, to prove that application form (Ex. PW­26/B)
is of Satnam Singh which bears his signature vis a vis the application
form (Ex. PW­2/K) for official passport is not of Satnam Singh/PW­40
nor it bears his signature nor the photograph thereon belongs to him.
He also described about his visit at Zimindara dhaba, where he was
called by Balwinder Bawa, there was Bhangra group performance but
PW­40 was not participant in the performance but Veero's daughter
Anju had joined that group besides son and daughter­in­law of
Balwinder Bawa in that group. PW­40 was informed by Balwinder Bawa
that the group was to be sent to Italy and when arrived at airport of
Delhi, he was asked by Balwinder Bawa to wait near the bus and then
he was informed by her that he will be sent after a week time, he was
asked to go back Amritsar. (He was cross examined by accused, by
also putting his statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C PW­40/DX to refute the claim
of demand of any amount or any payment of Rs.85,000/­ to Balwinder
Bawa and so on). (xLvii) PW­54 Sh. Ajeet Singh @ Jeeta Pawar, Singer­ to prove that he
is a singer by profession and he performs at various exhibitions and
programs, he operates his office in shop no.37, Jodhewal Chowk,
Ludhiana, Punjab. During these programs, he had already met accused
Balwinder Bawa frequently and also Hargulab Singh, who used to
arrange for singers to perform abroad. Accused Balwinder Bawa and
Hargulab represented him that they could send PW­54 to England for

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 60 of156 ]
 performance and also asked his photograph and to get him clear in the
trial so that he may be sent to England for performance. Balwinder
Bawa asked him Rs.50,000/­ to pay to Hargulab during the presence of
Jaswant Singh Cheema/PW­56 and they will arrange performance
abroad, he paid the amount demanded by borrowing from his friend
PW­56. Even PW­56 was also asked by Hargulab Singh that he may
also be sent to England or any other country but he will have to spent
more or Rs.4­5 lakhs, when PW­56 expressed that he is not trained
singer, he was assured otherwise. PW­56 paid the amount in
installments and some amount in the presence of PW­54. Then PW­54 was called by Hargulab Singh and took him to
various programs for performance and he also used to take
photographs. Balwinder Bawa also met PW­54 once or twice after
payment of amount, he was assured to send him abroad. Moreover,
Balwinder Bawa and Hargulab had also taken certificates from PW­54
which he had earned at various performance on the plea that the same
are required for arrangement for abroad, the said certificates were not
returned by them. Further, to prove that Hargulab had called PW­54 for
stage performance to have photographs so that the same can be used
to show programmes done for going abroad, where witness PW­56
Jaswant Singh Cheema, accused Balwinder Bawa and other Bhangra
group made their performances at instance of Hargulab Singh, which
were also photographed (album Ex. PW­4/M) under the banner Mehak
Punjab Di, which was put up by Hargulab Singh for the purposes of said
group and photographs shows the presence of Balwinder Bawa,
Hargulab Singh and of other performers. Lastly, Hargulab Singh had
brought filled in many certificates with words 'Mehak Punjab Di, Gidda
and Bhangra Group'. Balwinder Bawa had returned a part of
Rs.50,000/­ paid to her, since he was not sent abroad. PW­54 had
handed over his earned trophy (Ex. PW­54/A, of Shaheed Dilbagh
Singh Yaadgari Sabyachar Mela) to CBI. (He was cross examined on
behalf of Balwinder Bawa that neither she had demanded any amount
nor there was any occasion to pay any amount). (xlviii) PW­56 Sh. Jaswant Singh Cheema, Businessman/Trader ­ to
establish the facts on the lines of statement of PW­54 vis a vis in May,
2005 he was sitting with PW­54 when Gulab (i.e. this Hargulab Singh)
and Balwinder Bawa came to the office of PW­54, they convinced that a

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 61 of156 ]
 Bhangra group is to be sent abroad for performance, which may be
joined by PW­54 as a singer. Further, PW­56 was also told that if he
wishes to go with the group, he has to pay Rs.4 lakh to visit England
with the group. PW­54 was asked Rs.50,000/­, since PW­54 was not
having money at that time then PW­56 gave Rs.50,000/­ for PW­54 to
Hargulab and Balwinder Bawa, Rs. 4 lakh was paid by PW­56 to them
in installments, the first installment of Rs.1.5 lakhs was paid in the office
of PW­54. Moreover, Hargulab Singh and Balwinder Bawa had also taken
photographs of earned certificates and of mela performances of PW54
in the office of PW­54. PW­56 also accompanied them to printing press
office at Shivpuri to have certificates and mela performances to be
duplicated for Bhangra group Mehak Punjab Di, but on that day the
concerned person at the press office was not available and
subsequently Hargulab Singh went to the press office again with
certificates and photographs and got duplicate certificates printed and
brought the same in the office of PW­54, the witness PW­56 identifies
those certificates (Ex. PW­4/F­1:Mehak Punjab Di Bhangra Club,
Institute of Folk Dances, a certificate in favour of Jaswant Singh
Cheema; Ex. PW­4/F­2: Samaj Sudhar Committee registered Adda
Dagan Mukerian, annual cultural program, citation certificate in favour of
Hargulab Singh; Ex. PW­4/F­3: certificate in favour of Mehak Punjab Di,
Bhangra Gidda Club Ludhiana issued by Mela Paunahari Da; Ex.PW­
4/F­4: special certificate in favour of Punjab Mehak Di, Bhangra Club,
Ludhiana issued by Bawa Shyami Shah Darbar; Ex. PW­4/F­5: PW­4/H and Ex. PW­4/G) containing publication of photographs and by
pointing out that his figure is at Point­X in the photograph. Hargulab Singh and accused Balwinder Bawa were also
accompanied by PW­56 to Subhash Nagar to get newspaper item

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 62 of156 ]
 printed of back date pertaining to Bhangra group Mehak Punjab Di, they
had given amount to the printer to have news article of back date,
however, the printer assured to get it done from some other source. Thence, Hargulab Singh and Balwinder Bawa booked a marriage
palace on Rohan Road at Ludhiana where photograph of group
performing Bhangra was taken by the photographer arranged by
Hargulab and accused Balwinder Bawa. One Tahal Singh Kheeva (PW­
38/Artist) had given coaching for performing Bhangra and both
Hargulab and Balwinder Bawa told that photographs have to be taken
as the same are to be sent to Delhi for the group to be sent abroad.
PW­56 was announcer in that program vis a vis Hargulab and Balwinder
Bawa had costumes to make performance. Initially the photographs
were taken without the banners of Mehak Punjab Di and thereafter
more photographs were taken by keeping the banner of Mehak Punjab
Di in the background, the PW­56 identifies those photographs (in album
Ex.PW­4/M), as well as the presence and performance of Hargulab,
Balwinder Bawa and of PW­56. After some time Hargulab and accused Balwinder Bawa told PW­56
that group will go to Germany and not to England but PW­56 expressed
that he is not interested to go to Germany and he also asked return of
his passport and amount given during training, his passport was
returned but not his money till date, the cheques issued were not
presented during validity period on the request of Hargulab Singh and
Balwinder Bawa. (He was cross examined in detail about his sources of
income as well as to challenge his testimony that neither he had given
amount of Rs.50,000/­ for PW­54 nor any other amount of Rs.4 lakhs
for him or with regard to other aspects deposed by him, particularly
Balwinder Bawa never went to any office or press to have publication of
news article or other record). (xLix) PW­38 Sh. Tehpal Singh Kheeva, Municipal Corporation,
Ludhiana­ to prove that he used to work with Municipal Corporation of
Ludhiana besides he used to organize cultural programs of Bhangra
and Punjabi folk dances, he has a group by name M/s Rangla Punjab
Cultural Youth Club, which was registered with the youth services vis a
vis he used to organize cultural program on 15 th August and 26th
January of each year. He narrates the sequence of such events from
the year 1982 and onwards, either in India or abroad, even he visited

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 63 of156 ]
 Korea through ICCR, Delhi. His son Sandeep Kumar Kheeva (PW­36)
is also an artist, who also applied for empanelment with ICCR for his
group 'Punjabi Lokrang'. He/PW38 further narrates that he used to organize workshops
during summer vacation and also teach Bhangra and folk Punjabi dance
to students. He knew Balwinder Bawa, an artist and he used to meet
her in different programs/functions. Balwinder Bawa met PW­38 in the
Punjabi Bhawan and requested him to teach some of her artist boys
Punjabi folk dances and on her request he taught Bhangra and other
folk dances to those boys in May­June, 2005, during that session
Hargulab Singh and PW­54 were also present and these services were
given free to the students, however, the drummer (dholwala) used to be
paid charges by them. (PW­38 was cross examined on behalf of
accused with regard to antecedents and there was no influence in
getting the group empaneled vis a vis the empanelment was done on
merits. (L) PW­36 Sh. Sandeep Singh Kheeva, Bhangra Dancer­ to prove
that he is native of Ludhiana, Punjab, he chose Bhangra as his
profession and his father (PW­38) have also been performing Bhangra
in different groups and his father is having group by name 'Rangla
Punjab', empaneled with ICCR. He also narrates that he formed a group
in the year 2005 by name 'Punjabi Lok Rang Cultural Group', which was
registered with ICCR to perform local Punjabi folk dances of Bhangra,
Gidda etc.. He narrates about the activities of this group as well as of
PW­36 abroad but he was not knowing anything about Mehak Punjab
Di, if any. (He was cross examined alike PW­38 that the empanelment
of his group 'Punjabi Lok Rang Cultural Group' with ICCR was on
merit). ... ... (Li) PW­66 Sh. Satyender Pandey, Inspector in Special Crime Region­I,
CBI, New Delhi­ to prove that he was posted as Inspector in Special
Crime Region­I, CBI, New Delhi, a preliminary inquiry was registered in
the Branch in November 2005 about the allegation of misuse of official
position in sending several persons from India to abroad in illegal
manner, that inquiry was assigned to him. In that process certain facts
and documents were ascertained by him and collected. A formal FIR

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 64 of156 ]
 (Ex. PW­66/B) was registered on 27.3.2006 on the basis of complaint
dated 24.3.2006 (Ex. PW­66/A). Further, to prove that in the phase of
preliminary inquiry he had collected various documents, which were
handed over to the IO by memo (Ex.PW­66/D). He had also participated
in the investigation and in that phase three seizure memos (Ex. PW­
33/A in respect of seizure of 39 photographs and one CD from Surender
Kumar; memo Ex. PW­35/A in respect of seizure of two compact disc
Sony CDR and memo Ex. PW­66/E in respect of seizure of one Sony
CDR) were prepared by him. (He was cross examined to challenge his
role as well as the inquiry carried by him or to confront him that the role
of other official of ICCR was found to be suspicious but nothing against
the accused). ... ... (Lii) PW­22 Sh. Harmesh Kumar, Jr. Telecom Officer, BSNL, Ludhiana ­
to prove that he alongwith PW­60 is an independent witness in respect
of search carried on 29.03.2006 at the house of accused Shiv Kumar.
PW­22 was working as Junior Telecom Officer in BSNL, Ludhiana.
There search was carried at the residence of accused Shiv Kumar, a
search list (Ex. PW­22/A) of seized articles was prepared, to which he is
a witness; the seized items are commendation certificates (Ex. PW­
22/B, in Hindi, Ex. PW­22/C in Punjabi, Ex. PW­22/D1, Ex. PW­22/D2,
Ex. PW­22/E1, Ex. PW­22/E2, all in Punjabi, Ex. PW­22/F in English,
Ex. PW­22/G in English) and participant identity cards of Doordarshan
Kender Jalandhar (Ex.PW­22/H1 & Ex.PW­22/H2), each of such
document were endorsed by his signature as token of their seizure in
his presence. Similarly, in November 2006, he was again asked to reach at
Inspection Quarters, BSNL at 06:00am on that day, where he had
reached with PW­60 Karnail Singh and then joined the investigation by
visiting residence of Balwinder Bawa. Many documents were seized
from Balwinder Bawa and they were also seized by search memo Ex.
PW­19/A and the documents seized were original commendation
certificates [Ex. PW­4/F1, Ex. PW­4/F2, Ex. PW­4/F3, Ex. PW­4/F4, Ex.
PW­4/F5 & Ex. PW­4/F6] and two newspaper Manpreet Bulletin (Ex.
PW­4/G & Ex. PW­4/H showing photographs of performance of Mehak
Punjab Di); he is a witness in the seizure memo at Point­B on Ex. PW­
19/A as well as he also signed each certificate and newspaper

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 65 of156 ]
 Manpreet Bulletin. [He was cross­examined to dispute his presence as
well as recovery of any document at either of the places]. (Liii) PW­60 Sh. Karnail Singh, Sr. TOA, BSNL, Ludhiana - to establish
that on 29.03.2006 he alongwith PW­22 joined the investigation while
search was carried at the residence of Shiv Kumar at Durga Puri,
Ludhiana, Punjab and he is witness to the recovery effected vide
seizure memo (Ex. PW­22/A). In addition three diaries (Ex. PW­2/B, Ex.
PW­2/C & Ex. PW­2/D) were also seized, to which he is also a witness
in the memo. [He has not been cross­examined by any of the accused]. (Liv) PW­19 Sh. Rajinder Singh, Jr. Telecom Officer, BSNL, Ludhiana -
to prove that in the year 2006 he was posted as Jr. Telecom Officer,
BSNL, Durgri, Ludhiana and he had joined the investigation at
Inspection Quarters, Telephone Exchange, Dugri, Ludhiana when
documents were seized from Balwinder Bawa on that day, he is a
witness at point A in the seizure memo Ex. PW­19/A. [he was cross­
examined to the point that he was not knowing as to what exactly was
the document seized nor he had gone through the documents nor he
had seen the same]. (Lv) PW­62 Sh. Mayank, JTO (VAS), BSNL, Ludhiana - to establish
that he was posted as JTO (VAS), BSNL, Ludhiana and on 29.03.2006
he joined the investigation when accompanied by Sh. Kaushal Kumar
(PW­63) SDE and they went to the search operation at the house of
Hargulab Singh in village Ladiyan Khurd, PS­Haibowl, Ludhiana, where
search was done and a search memo Ex. PW­4/Q was prepared and
letter of empanelment dated 31.08.2005 (Ex. PW­4/R) was seized. He
is a witness in the search memo. [He has not been cross­examined by
any of the accused]. (Lvi) PW­63 Sh. Kaushal Kumar, SDE/P/Plant, BSNL, Ludhiana ­ to
establish that he was posted as SDE/P/Plant, BSNL, Ludhiana and on
29.03.2006 he joined the investigation when accompanied by Sh.
Mayank (PW­62) and they went to conduct search at the residence of
Hargulab Singh in village Ladiyan Khurd, Ludhiana where search memo
Ex.PW­4/Q was prepared and letter of empanelment dated 31.08.2005
(Ex. PW­4/R) was seized. He is a witness in the search memo. [He has
not been cross­examined by any of the accused]. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 66 of156 ]
 (Lvii) PW­65 Sh. Ravinder Kumar, Inspector CBI, SCR­1, New Delhi -
for establishing that when he was posted as Inspector CBI, SCR­1, New
Delhi from 17.03.2003 to 30.11.2006, he was deputed by SP Sh. Vineet
Vinayak for the purposes of investigation on 11.04.2006, he visited
Ludhiana, Punjab, where accused Gurbhej Singh met him at the
Railway Station and led him to Hotel Classic Retreat, where Rakesh
Kumar had stayed with two girls on the night of 01.09.2005 and
accused Gurbhej Singh had pointed out and identified that place that on
02.09.2005 he had picked up those two girls from the hotel and dropped
them at Sherpur Chowk, where accused Balwinder Bawa and Hargulab
Singh were to take them, for which pointing out memo (Ex. PW­23/A)
was prepared, which was signed by PW­65 at Point­B and by accused
Gurbhej Singh at Point­C. Moreover, the visitors register of Hotel
Classic Retreat was also inquired from Amit Singh, an employee in the
hotel but he could not produce it as IO of another case of PS­Salem
Towri had seized it. [He/PW65 was cross­examined that neither he had
any authority to proceed for investigation nor any instruction was given
to him or he could not produce any documentary record of his authority
to investigate the case vis a vis the pointing out memo Ex. PW­3/A is a
fabricated document]. (Lviii) PW­23 Sh. Harmeet Singh, Accountant with Hotel Classic
Retreat, Ludhiana - to prove that on 11.04.2006 he was an Accountant
with Hotel Classic Retreat, Ludhiana and CBI officers visited him during
investigation, a document Ex. PW­23/A was prepared in the hotel, he is
a witness at Point­A therein. He was also inquired about the register
maintained in the hotel but it was already with the police. He could not
recollect in what context Ex. PW­23/A was prepared. [There is no cross­
examination on behalf of accused persons]. (Lix) PW­61 Sh. Sarwan Singh, Asstt. Commandant, 27 th Battalion PAP,
Jalandhar Cantt. ­ PW­61 was got examined with regard to certain
records in respect of accused Gurbhej Singh and PW­61 was Asstt.
Commandant, 27th Battalion PAP, Jalandhar Cantt. in the year 2006. A
fax message was received from CBI, which was replied by letter dated
08.03.2007 (Ex. PW­61/1) about the detail of joining as well as places of
posting during certain period from 01.01.2005 to 06.04.2006. [There is
no cross­examination on behalf of accused persons]. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 67 of156 ]
 (Lx) PW­64 Sh. Gurkirpal Singh, SP (Traffic), Ludhiana - PW­64 was
summoned and examined to establishing close relationships of Shiv
Kumar Sharma with the DGP Sarabjeet Singh as well as to Rakesh
Kumar of Ministry of External Affairs. He deposed about his posting
from time to time being in Punjab Police at different assignments from
the year 1999 to the year 2009. [He was not supported the case of
prosecution to authenticate their relations, he was cross­examined in
detail on behalf of State but failed to get support the case as explored
in his cross­examination]. (Lxi) PW­71 Sh. Himanshu Khanduri, Inspector CBI, SCR­1, New Delhi­
to establish that during 2006­07, he was Inspector CBI, SCR­I, New
Delhi, he was given instructions by IO/Inspector S.K. Rathi and in
obedience of those directions, PW71 proceeded for investigation and
seized certain record from the office of Deputy Director, ICCR, New
Delhi, the record was seized its memo dated 02.05.2006 (Ex. PW­
11/Y2) was prepared, whereby original passports­ Ex. PW­14/C of
Satnam Singh, Ex. PW­14/E of Amarjeet Singh, Ex. PW­14/F of
Amanpreet Singh, Ex. PW­14/G of Jagdeep Singh, Ex. PW­58/A of
Prabhjot Singh, Ex. PW­58/B of Satnam Singh s/o Balwinder Bawa &
Amarjeet Singh, Ex. PW­58/C of Gurmeet Bawa and another passport
Ex. PW­4/P of Randeep Singh were seized besides list of passports
and colour prints of photographs]. ... ... (Lxii) PW­29 Sh. Ashwani Sharma, Sr. Vice President, Shree Sidh Yogi
Bawa Balak Nath Prachar Sangh ­ for establishing that he was Sr.
Vice President of Shree Sidh Yogi Bawa Balak Nath Prachar Sangh and
Shri Raj Sharma was its President. Shree Sidh Yogi Bawa Balak Nath
Prachar Sangh, does programme from 11th to 15th April of each year for
glorification and in the memory of Bawa Balak Nath, the programmes
are organised at Hari Om Mandir, Moti Nagar, Ludhiana and artists
used to be invited. Moreover, the certificate (Ex. PW­4/F3, of dates
11th,12th, 13th, 14th & 15th April 2005 in favour Mehak Punjab Di,
Bhangra­Gidda Club, Ludhiana) is bearing name of their Sangh but it
was not issued by the Sangh of PW­29 at any point of time. [This
witness was not cross­examined]. (Lxiii) PW­30 Sh. Baljeet Singh, Printing Press Business - for
establishing that he operates Printing Press since 1997 under the name

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 68 of156 ]
 and style of M/s Dilkhush Printing Press by using treadle machine.
Hargulab Singh alongwith his associates visited him for getting printed
certificate of private organisation, however, PW­30 had refused it since
he was not having off­set machine to print them. Again he came after 2­
3 days and requested that some programme is to be organised, he
urgently requires certificates and on his request, PW­30 got printed from
someone else the certificates by charging Rs.1200­Rs.1300/­, the said
certificates got printed [Ex. PW­4/F1 to Ex. PW­4/F6] by him but the
printed certificates when got printing were not bearing the words 'Mehak
Punjab Di'. [This witness was not cross­examined on behalf of any of
the accused]. (Lxiv) PW­31 Sh. Sai Prem Singh, Pradhan of Hazrat Peer Bawa Sunet
Shah Wali Memorial Trust - for proving that he is Pradhan of Hazrat
Peer Bawa Sunet Shah Wali Memorial Trust since 1992 and prior to it,
his mother and he used to look after the Dargah. They organises a
programme at Dargah for three days each year in the last week of June,
the devotees and visitors come there of their own as no invitation are
issued, they themselves come and give performance. As a mark of
respect, trophies and certificates are issued to performers but no
monetary remuneration to anyone. The certificates are issued under the
signature of General Secretary and Pradhan/PW­31. A canceled
certificate (Ex.PW­30/A, inadvertently written as Ex.PW30/A for
Ex.PW31/A, since no such documents ExPW30/A was endorsed in the
statement of PW30) is of the said Trust/Dargah However, a copy of
similar certificate (Mark­X) in favour of Mehak Punjab Di was never
issued by the said Dargah/Trust. [This witness was not cross­examined
on behalf of any of the accused]. (Lxv) PW­32 Sh. Jasbir Singh Sahota, Cane Development Inspector,
Punjab - to prove that he is Organiser, General Secretary of Samaj
Sudhar Committee, Mukrian, Dagan Adda, District Hoshiarpur, Punjab
and during the period from 2004­2006 he was also working as Cane
Development Inspector with Cane Department, Mukrian, District
Hoshiarpur. He also remained General Secretary of Samaj Sudhar
Committee from the year 2000­2006. The President of Committee was
Santokh Singh Dalowal. He also explains that the Committee was
formed to remember the martyrs of Kargil War and their families;
renowned personalities are invited in the functions to honour them as

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 69 of156 ]
 well as honour is given to students/persons including artists, teachers,
doctors and others, who achieved laurels in their respective fields or
professions. The function is organised on 29 th & 30th of September,
which was also performed from years 2004 to 2006. Invitees were by
way of invitation cards and also posters for general public to make them
aware of the function. PW­32 confirms that CBI took specimen of
original certificate (since cancelled) of Samaj Sudhar Committee,
invitation card and original poster in Punjabi 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan 6 th
Sabyachar Mela' by seizure memo Ex. PW­32/A, which he had signed
at Point­A and [its is poster Ex. PW­32/B. cancelled certificate Ex. PW­
32/C, invitation card Ex. PW­29/A for 6th Sabyachar Mela for 29th &
30.09.2004­Wednesday and Thursday]. However,the certificate Ex.
PW­4/F2 of Samaj Sudhar Committee in favour of Hargulab Singh was
not issued by the Committee of PW­32 nor it bears signature of its
President or of Pradhan/PW­32 nor such certificate was ever since
issued of date 10.12.2004 as mentioned in Ex. PW­4/F2. [This witness
was also not cross­examined on behalf of any of the accused]. (Lxvi) PW­34 Sh. Karnail Singh, Farmer & Sarpanch of Village Malkowal - to prove that he was Sarpach of Village Malkowal, he is farmer and
one Dilbagh Singh Subedar was resident in the village, he was martyr of
Kargil War. In the honour of Dilbagh Singh and his sacrifices for the
country, a Sabyachar Mela used to be organized in the village, which
was first time organised in the year 1995. In the year 2005, it was
organised on 13.02.2005 at Senior Secondary School, Malkowal, for
which no printed invitation cards were given but all were invited by
pasting of posters for the Mela. The participant artists used to be
Honorarium from the collections made from the village itself. The CBI
was handed over as specimen of framed blank certificate/format
'Shaheed Dilbagh Singh Yadgari Sabyachar Mela' 13.02.2005 day­
Sunday bearing two photographs (Ex.PW­34/B, being a format on which
certificates used to be issued by the Committee) vide memo Ex. PW­
34/A. PW­34 further deposed that a certificate (Ex. PW­4/F5) on yellow
colour bound paper in favour of Mehak Punjab Di Bhangra Club was not
issued by PW­34 or its organisation nor it bears signature of Shaheed
Dilbagh Singh Sabyachar Committee vis a vis it is not in the format of
certificate in practice of the Committee. [This witness was not cross­
examined on behalf of any of the accused]. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 70 of156 ]
 (Lxvii) PW­70 Sh. Narender Pal Singh, Gaddi Nashin at Tila Bawa,
Ludhiana ­ to prove that he has been Gaddi Nashin for the last about
40 years of Tila Bawa Sheikh Fareed Samadhi, Bawa Sawan Shah
Chown Basti, Jodewal, Ludhiana, Punjab. The Samadhi of Bawa Sheikh
Farid organises Mela in the month of September, when artists perform
Bhajan, folk songs, Qawwali and after the conclusion of Mela,
momentum are given to artists. The momentum carries a photograph of
Sheikh Farid and name of artist is also mentioned thereon, a
momentum (Ex. PW­54/A) is specimen of momentums issued in the
year 2003 on the eve of 28th Annual Mela. He further deposed that
certificate (Ex. PW­4/F6) on a hard paper sheet in favour of Mehak
Punjab Di Gidda Bhangra Club of 28 th Annual Mela of 16­17/18.09.2005
was not issued by them vis a vis this paper certificate shows holding of
28th Mela in the year 2005 whereas it was 30 th Mela that held at the
Samadhi in the year 2005, he opined that the certificate Ex. PW­4/F6 is
a forged certificate. [This witness was not cross­examined on behalf of
any of the accused]. ... ... (Lxviii) PW­67 Sh. D.R. Handa, Sr. Scientific Officer, Grade­1
(Document) CFSL, CBI, New Delhi - for proving that he is M.Sc.
Forensic Science, Post Graduate in Forensic Sciences from Delhi
University and he had examined about 2.5 lakhs documents in
thousand of cases till date (he was examined on 28.01.2016 before the
court). Further, to establish that he had examined and compared the
admitted signature/writing alongwith the specimen signatures and
writing of Rakesh Kumar, Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi, Shiv Kumar, Hargulab
and of Jaswant Singh and consequent to applying scientific means and
techniques and with the help of video spectral comparator­5000, twin
video comparator and magnifying glass, then he gave his detailed
analytical report dated 11.03.2008 (Ex. PW­67/B), the letter and
documents were received by letter dated 13.06.2007 (Ex. PW­67/A) and
result was forwarded to the authorities by letter dated 13.03.2008 (Ex.
PW­67/C). [This witness was not cross­examined on behalf of any of
the accused]. ... ... (Lxix) PW­1 Sh. Manjeet Singh, Reader, Registrar of Marriage, Amritsar - in order to establish the marriage certificate of Gurmeet Bawa and
Sukhdeep Singh (who are daughter­in­law and son of Balwinder Bawa

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 71 of156 ]
 wife of Jasbir Singh) that they married on 21.03.2005 and got their
marriage was registered on 29.03.2005 in the office, which is in the
register at serial no. 4232 dated 29.03.2005 (Ex. PW­1/A), the
certificate on Schedule­D being extract from Hindu Marriage Register is
Ex. PW­1/B bearing signature of Registrar of Marriage at Point­A (which
PW­1 identifies). Gurmeet Kaur's father name is Jagir Singh and
Sukhdeep Singh's father name is Jasbir Singh[This witness was not
cross­examined on behalf of any of the accused]. (Lxx) PW­26 Sh. Pawan Kumar, UDC, Passport Office, Jalandhar - to
establish the record of application form for issue of passport to Satnam
Singh, PW­26 appeared to identify signature of Superintendent Ms.
Veena Khanna that he worked with her in the section of verification of
application/applicants being part of his duty. In that tenure, the
application form of Satnam Singh was dealt (Ex. PW­26/B colly.), its
record was handed over to CBI by Ms. Veena Khanna by letter dated
19.09.2006 Ex. PW­26/A. [This witness was also not cross­examined on
behalf of any of the accused]. (Lxxi) PW­50 Sh. Pradeep Madnanai, Manager Operations, Carlson
Wagonlit Travels, New Delhi - for establishing that in 2005 he was
posted as Manager Operations, Carlson Wagonlit Travels, New Delhi
and his job was inclusiding of booking air/train tickets for the clients.
ICCR was on their panel since 2004 for the purposes of booking air
/train tickets/international travel insurance. It was being dealt normally
by Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi/PW­12 and on 05.09.2005 a fax message (Ex.
PW­50/A) was received from ICCR to send quotation for 15 members
dance group from Delhi­Berlin­Delhi, who was to make departure on
12.09.2005 for a week, the quotations were sent in sealed cover (Ex.
PW­50/B & Ex. PW­50/C) on 06.09.2005. Around 7/8.09.2005, it was
informed on telephone that option­2 of the quotation has been approved
and the ticket must be booked for option­2 of the quotations. At that
time Lufthansa Airlines was checked for the group booking but the seats
were not available but it could be on payment of Rs. 2000/­ extra per
person, which were conveyed to Ms. Kehkashan Tyagi by e­mail dated
09.09.2005 (Ex. PW­50/D), which was confirmed by return e­mail of
09.090.2005 (Ex.PW­50/E) and then bill for 15 persons was raised on
12.09.2005 (vide invoice Ex. PW­50/F). The payment was received by

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 72 of156 ]
 cheque at the end of September 2005. [This witness was not cross­
examined on behalf of any of the accused]. (Lxxii) PW­52 ASI Geetanand, HC No. 30/F, FRRO, New Delhi - to
establish that he was posted in the office of Foreigner Branch, FRRO
from the year 2003 to January 2009. On requisition pursuant to letter
dated 05.06.2006 about arrival and departure of persons for period
August 2003 to September 2005, the list of those persons (Ex. PW­
52/B) was provided with covering letter dated 08.08.2006 (Ex. PW­52/A)
to CBI, Special Crime Division­1. [This witness was not cross­examined
on behalf of any of the accused]. (Lxxiii) PW­58 Sh. SurAjeet Som, Assistant in Consular Section, MEA­
to prove that he was Section Officer in May 2004 and posted at
Embassy of India in Armenia, he was transferred to PV­II Section,
Ministry of External Affairs and joined in August 2005. PV­II Section
deals with issuance of deeplomatic passport and official passport to the
govt. officials and other persons nominated by government
departments. They were issued ordinary passports so as to enable
them to visit concerned country. Further he elaborates the procedure for
temporary passport to the prospective visitors going abroad as well as
the hierarchy of officers deals with those applications. He also deposed
about the identification of officers dealt with the relevant 15 passports
(Ex. PW­4/O, Ex. PW­14/B to Ex. PW­14/D, Ex. PW­3/A, Ex. PW­14/E
to Ex. PW­14/G, Ex. PW­4/D, Ex. PW­55/A, Ex. PW­14/H, Ex. PW­58/A
to Ex. PW­58/B) as well as to identify their signature on the record. In
addition,there was political clearance of 15 passports/persons, detailed
in letter dated 05.09.2005 Ex. PW­17/B accompanying name list of 15
persons, out of them Hargulab Singh was a leader. [This witness was
also not cross­examined on behalf of any of the accused]. (Lxxiv) PW­74 Sh. S.K. Rathi, Inspector in SIU­I, CBI, New Delhi - to
prove that he was posted as Inspector SIU­1, CBI, New Delhi and he
was assigned investigation of this case [FIR Ex.PW­66/B] on
17.03.2006, he was handed over the documents collected during
preliminary inquiry by Inspector Sateyender Pandey (PW­66) and then
he carried the investigation. In that phase not only he visited at different
places to investigate the case but also recorded statement of witnesses,
collected more documents and then as per need of the investigation, it
was carried forward and scientific opinion was also obtained in respect

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 73 of156 ]
 of questioned writings/signatures as well as the specimen of accused
persons and of others/PWs. The handwriting expert opinion was
accordingly filed with supplementary police report. Since Rakesh Kumar
was a public servant, the appropriate permission was taken to carry the
inquiry, which was accorded, then case was registered & investigation
was carried. Moreover, it was also applied for sanction to prosecute
accused Rakesh Kumar and sanction order dated 10.12.2007 (Ex. PW­
5/A) was accorded. Hargulab Singh was one of the five accused in
police report, but he got recorded his statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and he
was also granted pardon by the court. [He was cross­examined in detail
on all points of investigation as well as on the point of obtaining sanction
to prosecute Rakesh Kumar, to establish that the investigation was not
proper or as per norms]. 5.1 (Statement of accused persons & their defence evidence) -
Then statement of all the accused, without oath, u/s 313 Cr.P.C were
recorded. They were explained individually the adverse circumstance
and material against them. They have responded by blend of different
expressions, some questions/allegations have been denied by them,
some question were responded like matter of record, others reply was
with explanations. Moreover, many facts were admitted directly or by
implication. All of them have claimed their innocence as well as their
falsely implication and witnesses have deposed falsely. 5.2 Accused Rakesh Kumar has denied all allegations, either with
regard to empanelment of 'Mehak Punjab Di' or of his influence on
anyone or expert Sub­Committee members vis a vis he has not done
any wrong but did his duties as per rules and norms. Being head of the
institution, he performed his acts and duties in the interest of institution.
He has been implicated in the present case just on the statement of
approver and investigation has not been carried fairly or independently. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 74 of156 ]
 The witnesses had there own reasons to depose against the accused.
PW­4/Hargulab Singh had falsely deposed against him at the instance
of the CBI, who gave him immunity from legal punishment for large and
variegated crimes committed by him. The other witnesses were under
the undue pressure and fear of the CBI. Witness Sunil Bhalla has
deposed against him because accused has discontinued the practice of
presenting flower bouquets to the artists and also videos of the ICCR
functions at Delhi, since by these acts witness Sunil Bhalla and other
official's earning came to an end. PW M.S. Grover has deposed
against accused because he felt that he was not being given
importance, which he thought he deserved, being the second highest
officer in the hierarchy in the organization. Further, accused is innocent,
he has not committed any offence nor he is in any conspiracy that may
have attended the affairs of the group 'Mehak Punjab Di' or to facilitate
illegal immigration of members under the group 'Mehak Punjab Di'. He
was not complicit in it, or aware of it, or could have discovered it by
exercise of prudence or diligence expected of him. He had not abused
his power, authority or discretion as a public officer for undue benefit to
the group 'Mehak Punjab Di' or to any person associated with it. He had
not made any demand or requested or obtained or received or retained
any illegal gratification from any person in relation to his duties as a
public servant, nor have knowingly caused to be made any wrongful
loss to the government or any corresponding wrongful gain to any
person or to himself. He had also not cheated the government or
caused it to suffer any loss or any wrongful gain at its expense to
anyone or himself. He has not created or used or got used any forged

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 75 of156 ]
 document for any purpose whatsoever. As appearing, some members
of group 'Mehak Punjab Di' had not returned India from Germany, there
was a feeling that those seeking to illegally migrate to Europe had
abused the sponsorship provided by ICCR to the artists and the cultural
group and the matter had to be probed. PW­4 Hargulab Singh himself
confessed about illegal immigration for money but later, he came back,
however, the CBI had not arrested him. He had been given unjustifiable
immunity in exchange for committing perjury against Rakesh Kumar.
Moreover, after the registration of this case, the CBI also registered
and investigated another case against accused to find out if his assets
were disproportionate to his known means of income. After going
through the details of his assets and investments of his wife and
children, the said investigation has been closed in favour of accused by
the CBI, and a closure report to that effect has been filed, which has
been accepted by the court of Special Judge, New Delhi. He opted for
defence evidence. 5.3 Accused Shiv Kumar took the plea of his innocence and also
ground of alibi that he had not visited the office of Rakesh Kumar, DG,
ICCR, Azad Bhawan, New Delhi in the year 2005 particularly on
27.04.2005 or on 05.09.2005, as on those days he was in his office at
Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab. Moreover, he had also
not gone to Zimindara Dhaba on 01.09.2005 but on 02.09.2005 at
03:00pm to see Rakesh Kumar there, where he happened to meet Ms.
Kehkashan Tyagi. He rarely went to the office of Rakesh Kumar. He is
not involved in any act of conspiracy or taking any amount from anyone
or to get them defected in Berlin, Germany. Since he was sent as
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 76 of156 ]
 Manager in the group, he had informed the Embassy as well as police
immediately when he came to know about defection of some members
of the group. He met/saw Hargulab Singh first time on 02.09.2005 at
Zimindara Hotel, therefore, there was no question of any conspiracy or
any other act with Hargulab Singh. He claims to be innocent and he has
been implicated falsely by CBI as he refused to become a witness
against Rakesh Kumar as CBI pressurized him to do so. In fact, CBI
had forcibly trespassed into his house, removed his valuable articles
and also took him forcibly and then foisted this case against him. Shiv
Kumar Sharma also opted for defence evidence. 5.4 Accused Balwinder Bawa @ Bawa also replied. She confirms
some photographs, documents, facts vis a vis many allegations have
been denied as false or many of them are not concerned with her. She
admits that PW­9 and PW­10 are known to her, however, after
performance on 01.09.2005 at Zimindara Hotel, both of them left for
their house, although they were not engaged by her for the
performance. Sukhdeep Singh is his son and Gurmeet Kaur is her
daughter­in­law, they married of their own and they were living
separately, why his name as Satnam Singh was mentioned by him in
his application form (in place of his actual name) for official passport is
not known to her. She has no role at all in the registration of
empanelment of 'Mehak Punjab Di' as she never visited the office of
ICCR, Delhi at any point of time. She, being a professional artist, came
in contact of Hargulab Singh as a co­incident, when there was some
local performance in the area. She never accompanied Hargulab Singh
for registration of empanelment of Mehak Punjab Di, she never went to
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 77 of156 ]
 the office of ICCR, Azad Bhawan, Delhi. She does not know the reason
of putting the banner of Mehak Punjab Di, when performance was given
as an artist at Zimindara Hotel. The photographs (in album Ex.PW­4/M)
were of performance at Zimindara Hotel of 01.09.2005 and she had not
given any performance on 02.09.2005 and those photographs are also
pertaining to 02.09.2005. She has been falsely implicated, neither the
CBI visited her residence at any point of time, her signatures were
obtained under force which had been converted into seizure memo of
recovery of certificates, whereas neither anything was recovered from
her nor she had accompanied Hargulab or PW­56 at any place or office
or Press for getting printed commendation certificates or newspapers of
Manpreet Bulletin. However, she admits that she is visitor to Jalandhar
Doordarshan Kendra, she used to sign in the Register for entry but she
denied entry card of Jallandhar Doordarshan Kendra (ExPW4/D) was
given to Hargulab Singh. She also admits her in picture in photographs
(Ex.PW­9/A1 to Ex.PW­9/A8, which were pertaining to performance at
Zimindara Hotel) and also in the photographs (in album Ex.PW­4/M)
having banner 'Mehak Punjab Di' in the background besides picture in
earlier photograph (Ex.PW­4/E7, her picture is at Point­X) and also
presence of Hargulab Singh at that place (shown in photograph at
Point­Y in Ex.PW­4/E8). She confirms her talk with PW­72 Sudhanshu
Pandey on telephone and she had requested PW­72 to convince her
son and daughter­in­law to come back India; she was also angry
because Hargulab Singh had not taken her in Germany in that group
despite she sings very well. She opted for defence evidence. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 78 of156 ]
 5.5 Accused Gurbhej Singh during his statement claimed him
innocent, he was never deployed with Shiv Kumar Sharma in any
capacity and he has been falsely implicated. Neither he knew about any
formation of 'Mehak Punjab Di', nor he had any role in its emapnelment,
it is unknown fact to him. He saw accused Hargulab Singh, Balwinder
Bawa and Rakesh Kumar first time in the court. There was no occasion
for him to go to office of ICCR in the year 2005 either in March, April,
May or September 2005. He had no occasion to visit Zimindara Dhaba
in respect of Mehak Punjab Di (either on 01.09.2005 or 02.09.2005 or
on other occasion or on 7/8.09.2005 in regard to Mehak Punjab Di).
However, he may be getting through in front of Zimindara Dhaba during
his official duties in the area. On 02.09.2005, he was posted in
Jalandhar with Sh. Amar Singh Chahal, there was no occasion for him
to be at Zimindara Dhaba on that day nor any scope for him that he
took/drove the two girls to Sherpur Chowk on 02.09.2005. He has no
brother­in­law by name Amanjeet Singh. His only brother­in­law is
settled in India, it is falsely alleged that his brother­in­law was inducted
in the group Mehak Punjab Di to visit abroad. He has not paid any
amount for sending him abroad. First, he opted for leading defence
evidence but subsequently by his statement dated 28.07.2017, he
closed the defence evidence without producing any witness. 5.6 (Defence Evidence)­ Consequently accused Rakesh Kumar got
examined two witnesses (DW­5 & DW­6), Shiv Kumar Sharma got
examined three defence witnesses (DW­2, DW­3 & DW­4) and
accused Balwinder Bawa got examined sole witness (DW­1) in support

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 79 of156 ]
 of their defences. The particulars of defence witnesses and their
purpose of examination are detailed in chronological way as follows:­ (i) DW­1 Ms. Rajwant Bawa, Matron, Mahila Jail, Ludhiana, Punjab -
She was summoned and examined to establish record about Balwinder
Bawa's period in judicial custody in other cases in Punjab during the
period from March 2006 to November 2006, consequently DW1
produced record (Ex.DW­1/A) containing information from Woman Jail,
Ludhiana, Punjab that she was in Ferozpur Jail vide entry of 29.03.2006
in FIR No. 72/3.3.2006 PS­City Moga and she was admitted on bail and
released on 27.04.2006. In another FIR No. 142/05 PS­Hobowal, she
was in jail on 02.07.2006 and released on 20.09.2006. In third case of
complaint No. 270/2004 of PS­Nakodar of complaint u/s 138 of
Negotiable Instrument Act, there were production warrant and she was
acquitted on 25.10.2006 ( on court query at the time of final hearing, Ld.
defence counsel Sh. S.B. Sharma, Advocate clarifies that DW­1 was
summoned with record to ascertain about certain dates of judicial
custody, that purpose was achieved and it does not require to further
analyse the deposition of DW­1 for final adjudication). [He was cross­
examined on behalf of State that DW­1 has no personal knowledge
about the case.] (ii) DW­2 Sandeep Wadhera, SHO, PS Sadar, Ludhiana,
Commissionate - in order to establish that on 03.10.2006, he had
recorded DDR No.33 (Ex. PW­DX4) to the effect that DW­2 was
threatened by IO/Inspector S.K. Rathi/PW­74 because Raj Kumar
(i.e.PW2) s/o Chanan Ram was detained by the police u/s 107 / 151 Cr.P.C consequent to complaint of Nabi Rasool Khan vide DD No.21
dated 02.10.2006 (Mark­DW­2/A, as result PW­2 was arrested u/s
107 / 151 Cr.P.C) as well as DW­2 was asked to release the said Raj
Kumar forthwith otherwise to face the consequences, being threat, as if
DW­2 did not know how CBI deals with such persons. [He was cross­
examined on behalf of State that because of telephonic call he could not
say whether actually it was Inspector S.K. Rathi of CBI on phone on
03.10.2006.] (iii) DW­3 Dr. Gursahab Singh Manes, Sr. Research Engineer cum
Head of Department, Department of Farm Machinery & Power
Engineering, Ludhiana University, Ludhiana, Punjab - to prove that in

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 80 of156 ]
 the year 2015, he was posted as Sr. Research Engineer cum Head of
Department, Department of Farm Machinery & Power Engineering,
Ludhiana University, Ludhiana, Punjab and accused Shiv Kumar
Sharma was employed as Senior Draftsman in the Department of Farm
Machinery and Power Engineering, Ludhiana University, Punjab.
Further, to prove record of letters dated 16.09.2008 and of three letters
of 08.04.2010, 10.08.2015 and of 01.09.2015 (Ex. PW­3/A colly., also
consisting copies of a few applications of leave availed on 29.3.2005,
11.5.2005, 23/24/27/28.6.2005 & of EL 12.9.05 to 23.9.05) are of their
department. Moreover, accused Shiv Kumar had availed compensatory
leave on 29.03.2005 and 11.05.2005, he had also availed casual leave
on 23.06.2005, 24.06.2005, 27.06.2005 and 28.06.2005. [He was cross­
examined on behalf of State that DW­3 has no personal knowledge
about the case.] (iv) DW­4 Dr. Inderjeet Singh Dhaliwal, Professor and Head,
Department of Farm Machinery & Power Engineering, Ludhiana
University, Ludhiana, Punjab ­ to establish that he was Head of
Department, Department of Farm Machinery & Power Engineering from
2008 to 2010 and accused Shiv Kumar Sharma was posted as Senior
Draftsman. During the year 2008 to 2010 the working hour of Ludhiana
University were from 09:00am to 05:00pm as well as accused Shiv
Kumar Sharma was in his office on 27.04.2005 and 05.09.2005.
Further, to establish that original letter dated 15.09.2008 and other three
letters of 08.04.2010, 10.08.2015 and of 01.09.2015 (Ex. PW­3/A colly.)
were issued under the signature of DW­4. [He was cross­examined on
behalf of State that DW­4 has no personal knowledge about the case.] (v) DW­5 Sh. Deepak Singh, Sr. Audit Officer, Office of Director General
of Audits (Central Expenditure), ITO, Delhi - to prove the record
obtained by accused Rakesh Kumar under RTI from office of Indian
Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) consisting audit reports of the year
2003­04, 2004­05 and 2005­06 to demonstrate the functions of the
organisation, fiscal aspects besides balance sheet of the organisation
that it had not suffered or caused any losses by accused. [He was
cross­examined on behalf of State that DW­5 has no personal
knowledge about the case.] (vi) DW­6 Sh. Manjeet Singh, Assistant Section Officer, MEA, New
Delhi - to establish certain internal record of ICCR or Ministry of

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 81 of156 ]
 External Affairs, consisting order dated 11.12.2007 (Ex. DW­6/1) that
disciplinary inquiry was contemplated, record of approval u/s 6A of the
DSPE Act 1946 (Ex. DW­6/2) to proceed for initiation of case, request
letter dated 18.11.2005 (Ex. DW­6/3) by Ministry of External Affairs to
Deputy Inspector General of Police, the other record of concurrence for
investigation by CBI (Ex. DW­6/4 & Ex. DW­6/5), letter no. 4558 dated
26.09.2007 (Ex. DW­6/6=Ex. PW­74/DX1) in respect of forward of draft
sanction order by Sh. Satish Golcha, IPS to the Secretary, MEA; letter
dated 05.10.2007 (Ex. DW­6/7=Ex.PW­74/DX2) by Sh. Satish Golcha,
DIG, CBI to Joint Secretary, MEA, Delhi for advising initiation of regular
departmental action, copy of letter dated 23.09.2005 (Ex. DW­6/8) that
a communication of CBI was comprising 01 page and other number of
pages of its annexures were 79 and information/letter dated 25.03.2010
(Mark­XD) consequent to RTI application dated 08.02.2010 to the effect
that in reply to query/paragraphs 2 & 4 it was informed 'Minister In­
Charge' . [He was cross­examined on behalf of State firstly he had no
personal knowledge of the documents, secondly, the documents were
not in personal custody of DW­6, however, he could identify signature of
Mr. A. Bhatacharjee, at Point­X on Ex. DW­6/8, being custodian of the
record.] (vii) DW­7 Sh. Vinay Vohra s/o Chand Praksh Vohra, Senior
Programme Director, ICCR, Azad Bhawan, I.P. State, Delhi - in order to
establish the record pertaining to the official activities of the office of
outgoing cultural delegations, particularly implementation report from
01.04.2005 to 31.03.2006 (Ex. DW­7/1), groups/artists supported by
council for single country visit during 1998­1999 (Ex. DW­7/2) objects of
the Constitution of ICCR (Ex. DW­7/3), attested copy under RTI, circular
dated 15.12.2005 of revised delegated financial powers of officers of
councils (of Director General, Dy. Director General and Programme
Director (Admn.) Ex. DW­7/4), reply dated 07.04.2007 under RTI (Ex.
DW­7/5), another reply dated 29.04.2007 under RTI (Ex. DW­7/6), reply
dated 06.05.2010 under RTI (Ex. DW­7/7), reply dated 20.11.2007
under RTI (Ex. DW­7/8), reply dated 07.03.2008 under RTI (Ex. DW­
7/9), reply dated 25.04.2008 under RTI (Ex. DW­7/10), reply dated
08.07.2008 under RTI (Ex. DW­7/11), reply dated 26.06.2008 under RTI
(Ex. DW­7/12), reply dated 22.08.2008 under RTI (Ex. DW­7/13) and
order dated 26.07.2016 by first appellant authority in respect of RTI
application 06.06.2016 (Ex. DW­7/14) and letter dated 24.06.2016 (Ex. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 82 of156 ]
 DW­7/15) in respect of RTI application dated 06.06.2016 for exploring
the relevant dates, facts and record. [He was cross­examined on behalf
of State that DW­7 is just carrier of the record and he has no personal
knowledge about the case.]

Then evidence was closed by the accused persons. 6.1 (Final hearing) - At this juncture, Sh. Mukul Sharma, Advocate
for Rakesh Kumar, Sh. V.B. Handa, Advocate for accused Shiv Kumar
& Gurbhej Singh and Sh. S.B. Sharma, Advocate for Balwinder Bawa
made their respective submissions, besides there are brief synopsis by
them, which are on the lines of oral contentions. 6.2 The submissions on behalf of accused Rakesh Kumar are of two
fold viz firstly on the point of sanction to prosecute as well as its validity
and secondly on other merits of case. The submissions on behalf of
other three accused are on the merits of the case. It does not require to
reproduce their contentions herein, as the same will be dealt
appropriately issue wise. 7.1 (Findings with reasoning) - The rival contentions of both the
sides are considered, keeping in view the evidence on record (which is
in the nature of oral testimony of witnesses, documentary record and
opinions), the statutory provisions of law and law declared in
precedents. 7.2 (Ingredients of relevant sections of law) ­ In order to appreciate
the contentions of the parties, it is appropriate to reproduce the relevant
requirement of law so that nature of formal charges, facts and features

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 83 of156 ]
 of evidence are considered together to arrive at conclusion. They are as
under:­

Essential Ingredients­

Sec 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988­ Criminal misconduct
by a public servant­ Section 13(1)(d)(i) if Public Servant by corrupt or illegal means, obtains
for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary
advantage; or Section 13(1)(d)(ii) if Public Servant by abusing his position as a public
servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or
pecuniary advantage; or Section 13(1)(d)(iii) if Public Servant while holding office as a public
servant, obtains for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary
advantage, without any public interest. [N.B (1) All the three clauses are independent and distinctive to
constitute ingredients of offence u/s 13(1)(d) ,
 (2) the acts (i) or (ii) above need not be in discharge of his duties.]

of Indian Penal Code­
Section 120A IPC [criminal conspiracy] ­
(1) there should be an agreement between the persons (who are
alleged to conspire), and
(2) the agreement should be­ (a) for doing of an illegal act, or (b) for doing by illegal means an act which may not itself be
illegal. (3) some act besides the agreement is done by one or more parties to
such agreement in pursuance thereof. Rule for the proof of criminal conspiracy­ The essence of criminal
conspiracy is an agreement to do an illegal act such an agreement can
be proved by direct evidence or by circumstantial evidence or by both.
The direct evidence to prove conspiracy is rarely available. Therefore,

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 84 of156 ]
 circumstances proved before, during and after the occurrence have to
be considered to decide on the complicity of accused. Section 415 IPC (definition of cheating)­
(1) deception caused by accused to generate inducement in the mind of
complainant/a person
(2) (a) fraudulently or dishonestly inducing complainant/ that person­ (i) to deliver any property to any person or (ii) to consent that any person shall retain property. OR (b) intentionally inducing complainant/that person to do or omit to do
anything which he would not do or omit if he were so deceived, and
which act or omission causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to
that person in body, mind, reputation or property. Section 420 IPC (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of
property)­
(1) the person deceived delivered to some­one or consented that some
person shall retain certain property,
(2) the person deceived by induced by the accused to do, as above,
(3) such person acted upon such inducement in consequence of his
been deceived by the accused. (4) that accused acted fraudulently or dishonestly when so inducing that
person. (5) the accused acted fraudulently or dishonestly when so inducing that
person
OR
(1) the person deceived by induced by the accused to do,
(2) such person acted upon such inducement in consequence of his
been deceived by the accused. (3) the accused so induced that person intentionally
(4) that person dishonestly induces the person deceived to deliver any
property to any person or to make, alter or destroy the whole or any part
of valuable security, or anything which is signed or sealed, and which is
capable of being converted into valuable security. Section 463 (defining forgery) r/w Section 464 IPC ( making of false
document)
(1) the making of a false document or false electronic record or part of it
and

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 85 of156 ]
 (2) the making should be with intend to­ (a) cause damage or injury to (i) the public, or (ii) any person or (b) support any claim or title (c) cause any person to part with property (d) enter into any express or implied contract (e) commit fraud or that fraud may be committed. Section 468 IPC(forgery for purposes of cheating)­ (i) that the document is a forgery, (ii) the accused forged the document (iii) he did, as above, intending that the forged document would be used
for the purposes cheating. Section 471 IPC (using as genuine a forged document or electronic
record) (i) fraudulent or dishonest use of a document or electronic record as
genuine. (ii) knowledge or reasonable belief on the part of the person using the
document or electronic record that it is a forged one. or (i) that the document or electronic record was a forged document. (ii) the accused used such document. (iii) he used it as a genuine. (iv) that he knew or had reason to believe, that it was a forged Indian Evidence Act, 1872 ­

Section ­133­An accomplice shall be a competent witness against an
accused person and a conviction is not illegal merely because it
proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice. Section114­ Court may presume existence of certain facts­ Illustration (b) - The court may presume ­that an accomplice is unworthy of credit,
unless he is corroborated in material particulars. 8.1 (Issue of sanction to prosecute accused Rakesh Kumar) ­
­Since a legal issue has been raised on the points of sanction order
[either of competency of PW5 or existence of any approval for sanction

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 86 of156 ]
 order or validity of sanction order] to prosecute public servant Rakesh
Kumar, therefore, it is necessary to adjudicate it first because it will
have legal consequences as well as it will determine the next course of
appreciation of evidence. There is requirement of law of valid sanction
to prosecute public servant. 8.2.1 (Initial submission of State)­ Ld. Public Prosecutor Shri Raj
Kamal began by referring statement of PW­5 Shri Debnath Shaw that
he/PW5 has proved the sanction order (Ex.PW­1/A), he deposed that
he had after considering carefully and examining the statement of
witnesses recorded u/s 161 CrPC, other relied upon documents
forwarded by CBI about allegation against Rakesh Kumar. then
sanction to prosecute public servant Rakesh Kumar was accorded. In
fact, it like an administrative acts by the sanctioning authority and not of
judicial or quasi­judicial functioning. The sanction order dated
10.12.2007 (Ex PW5/A) meet the requirement of law. 8.2.2 (Submissions on behalf of accused Rakesh Kumar)­ Whereas
Sh. Mukul Sharma, Advocate for Rakesh Kumar has many reservations,
on the same face of record of sanction order (Ex.PW­1/A), statement of
PW5 Shri Debnath Shaw, particularly the facts emerged from his cross
examination, statement of IO/PW74 and the record produced by DW6
Manjeet Singh, who has produced record, which was considered by the
PW5 before passing order (ExPW5/A). There is no sanction by actual
statutory appointed Sanctioning Authority, thus order (Ex PW5/A) is not
competent sanction order and it is an invalid order, which is emerging
from the record itself. It is mandatory that the sanctioning authority shall

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 87 of156 ]
 be provided with complete record by the investigating agency so that
the Sanctioning Authority may consider it to apply its independent mind
and whatever record is considered by the sanctioning authority, it
should have also been reflected in the sanction order. Here the
situation is very serious. Firstly, according to PW5 and PW74, the
Sanctioning Authority is Hon'ble President of India but PW5 has other
view that Hon'ble Minister of External Affairs is also Sanctioning
Authority vis a vis PW5 has delegated power to issue sanction order (Ex
PW5/A) on his behalf, whereas the power of sanction to prosecute is a
statutory in nature and it delegation could by legislation, it has not been
established; the power cannot be delegated unless by statute it is so
provided. Thus, PW5 had no authority to write order 10.12.2007.
Moreover, the official noting (Ex PW5/DY) does not approve of sanction
to prosecute Rakesh Kumar, but it is confining to just suspension order u/s 10(2) of CCS (Conduct) Rules. There is mentioning in noting
(ExPW5/DX) about draft sanction, it was neither produced before the
President of India/Minister of External Affairs nor it was get approved,
then how draft sanction can be considered as approved nor it was in the
official record produced. Moreover, PW5 emphasized during his
statement that draft sanction was prepared in their office, which was
subject of noting for necessarily approvals and no draft order was
received from CBI, when he was confronted with the record (Ex
PW5/DX and Ex PW5/DY), he admits that CBI had sent draft order and
copy of draft order and the order (ExPW5/A) are verbatim, even
punctuation. The theory of preparing draft in office or getting its
approved from Sanctioning Authority, are all demolished. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 88 of156 ]
 Moreover, the contents of sanction order are contrary to the
actual position, also emerging from cross examination of PW5. It is
written in sanction order that he had seen and examined carefully the
material and documents, statement of witnesses recorded by
Investigating Officer, which were produced before them and they also
considered the circumstances of case against Rakesh Kumar and then
sanction was approved and order was issued. PW­5 was examined and
cross examined in detail on material aspects. The clear picture emerged
is that record produced before PW­5 was total 79 pages comprising
CBI/S.P.'s Report and one sheet of letter no.4557 dated 26.9.2007
(ExPW74/DX3) (revealed from subsequent letter dated 5.10.2009
ExPW74/DX2=ExDW6/7) and then subsequently draft sanction of 3
sheets (with covering letter no.4558 dated 26.9.2007
(Ex.PW74/DX1=ExDW6/6) was sent. Official Witness DW6 Manjeet
Singh had also produced the record, out of which, copies of such
CBI/SP report 79 pages, covering letter of one page and draft order
prepared by CBI in three pages, was retained in the court file.
Moreover, accused had obtained relevant information under RTI
(ExDW6/8), which also confirms that it were 79 pages of report and 1
more sheet. PW74 had denied it, by explaining that entire record was
sent for consideration to Sanctioning Authority but he admits that the
documentary record is of full of trunk/big box, then when it was sent,
through whom it was, what is diary number when it was sent/dispatched
to authority and when it was received back, then its diary number; IO
had no answer because he deposed falsely. Since, the record was of
just 79+1=80 pages and sanction was granted on that basis, as no

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 89 of156 ]
 other material was provided to PW5 or others Seniors. It is crystal clear
in statement of PW­5 that neither statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C of the
witnesses nor the documentary record collected by IO was produced
before PW­5 or competent authority for consideration and to apply its
independent mind. The CBI/S.P. report just mentions names of
documents and names of witnesses, they cannot be treated either the
statement of witnesses or the documents in order to make an
independent decision. There are voluminous record of documents and
statement of witnesses in boxes, it also needs time to go through. No
documentary record or statement of witnesses were forwarded for
assessment. It is speaking volumes that just those 79+1=80 sheets
were sent, the same was basis of order ExPW5/A, how could there is
application of mind, there is no application of mind or independent
opinion. Order ExPW5/A is just another copy of draft sanction order. It
also constraints, in the letter, for the sanctioning authority that the SP
report forwarded shall be kept confidential and it shall not be conveyed
to anyone and if anyone seeks its copy under RTI, then view of office of
CBI shall be ascertained. There is mentioning of offences of the Indian Penal Code , 1860 in
one paragraph of order ExPW5/A but no sanction u/s 197 CrPC; it
[order ExPW5/A] just concludes to the provisions of the Prevention of
Corruption Act,1988 . Therefore, the requirement of law of sanction laid
down in codified law, their interpretation in precedent/judicial
pronouncements have not been complied with. There is no sanction at
all, order ExPW5/A is not only invalid but also without authority to PW5 ,
it cannot be acted upon and in fact the sanctioning authority has not

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 90 of156 ]
 given any approval nor it had complete and actual material to form an
independent opinion or to apply its judicious mind. Actually it not was
possible for it for want of relevant material before it to be assessed by it.
Ld. defence counsel fortifies his contentions while relying upon­

( A) Central Bureau of Investigation Vs. Ashok Kumar Agarwal (2014) 14
SCC 295, dod 22.11.2013)(relevant paragraph 16, 20, 22, 23, 28, 44
and 59)­in this case charge­sheet was filed by CBI, the Special Judge
took cognizance of offence, however, the respondent filed application to
challenge the validity of sanction u/s 19 of the Act 1988. The Special
Judge, New Delhi that it was not appropriate stage to decide the
whether he sanction is in valid. However, the respondent filed revision
petition before Hon'ble High Court of Delhi to decide the question of
failure of justice in according sanction and to examine the sanctioning
authority, as a pre­charge stage, if it Dims fit. Then CBI filed the appeal
against that order. It was held (in para 59) that the stage of examining
the validity of sanction is during the trial and we do not propose to say
that the validity should be examined during the stage of inquiry or at
pre­trial stage. In addition, the procedure for sanction was also laid. 16. The legal propositions can be summarised as under: 23. A three­Judge Bench of this Court in Vineet Narain Vs. Union of
India to prevent the erosion of the rule of law, issued a large number of
directions to various authorities. Relevant part of the directions issued to
CBI reads:(SCCp. 270, para 58)

"58.(I)(12) The CBI Manual based on statutory provisions of Cr.P.C provides essential guidelines for the CBI's functioning. It is imperative
that CBI adheres scrupulously to the provisions in the Manual in relation

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 92 of156 ]
 to its investigative functions, like raids, seizure and arrests. Any
deviation from the established procedure should be viewed seriously
and severe disciplinary action taken against the officials concerned." 28. The High Court in the impugned judgment and order has taken a
prima facie view that: Thus, it is evident that even on the date the draft sanction was sent, the
investigation was not complete. 59. Undoubtedly, the stage of examining the validity of sanction is
during the trial and we do not propose to say that the validity should be
examined during the stage of inquiry or at pre­trial stage. ( B) Ashok Kumar Agarwal Vs. CBI & Ors. 2016 (154) DRJ 489 dod
13.1.2016 (relevant paragraphs 68, 69, 70, 71,73,74) ­The petitioner
filed writ petition and revision petitions, wherein he assailed orders of
sanction of competent authority, orders on point of charge of Special
Judge in the charge­sheet filed by CBI. The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
discussed the issues on point of valid sanction with precedent, including
paragraph 16 of case of Central Bureau of Investigation Vs. Ashok
Kumar Agarwal (2014) 14 SCC 295, in paragraph no.62 of the
judgment. 68. In the case of State of Maharashtra Vs Mahesh G. Jain , reported
(2013) 8 SCC 119, the Supreme Court relied on the decision of Mohd.
Iqbal Ahmed (Supra) and held as follows : 69. Considering the conspectus of decisions above­referred the
following propositions can be culled out: 70. In the present case, the respondents have despairingly failed to
discharge the onus of proving that the sanction order dated 21.06.2002
is valid and that all the relevant documents were sent to the sanctioning
authority for its perusal. None of the documents that go to demonstrate
the innocence of the petitioner viz. the reply to the LR dated 27.06.2001
and the relevant Fax dated 13.01.1998 were shown to have been
available to the sanctioning authority. These documents clearly and
unequivocally establish that the Fax in question was in fact sent by the
Swiss Bank Corporation, however, it is purported to have reached Mr.
Barjatya by mistake. Resultantly, the Fax in question was a genuine
one, and was not forged or fabricated as alleged by the prosecution. 71. The sanction order dated 21.06.2002 is a verbatim copy of the
draft sanction order sent along with the SP's report on 30.10.2001 and
illustrates non­application of mind by the sanctioning authority. I have
gone through and compared the draft sanction order and the sanction
order dated 21.06.2002 and it clearly appears that the sanctioning

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 95 of156 ]
 authority has given its imprimatur to the draft sanction order without
applying its mind to the relevant material. The sanction order dated
21.06.2002 as well as the SP's report dated 30.10.2001 do not allude to
the reply to LR dated 27.06.2001, or the relevant Fax dated 13.01.1998
sent by the Swiss Bank Corporation to Mr. Barjatya. Thus, the sanction
order itself does not reflect that the afore­stated relevant documents
were examined by the sanctioning authority before granting sanction for
prosecution. The sanctioning authority who, purportedly went through
the above­mentioned documents, as per the noting of the then Hon'ble
Finance Minister, is not even the sanctioning authority that signed the
sanction order dated 21.06.2002. 73. Therefore, in view of the foregoing discussion, Issue No. (ii)
raised in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 1401/2002, is answered in the
affirmative and it is held that the sanction order dated 21.06.2002 is
invalid. 74. The only issue raised is Criminal Revision Petition No. 338/2014
is whether the sanction order dated 26.11.2002 is invalid on account of
the circumstance of failure to place the relevant documents on record
as well as on account of non­application of mind by the sanctioning
authority while granting the subject sanction. ( C) Prof N.K. Ganguli vs. CBI, New Delhi, (Criminal Appeal No. 798/2015, date of decision 19.11.2015) (relevant paragraph no.19)­ A
charge­sheet was filed against the appellant for allegations u/s 13(1)(d) ,
& 13 (2)of PC Act and for offences punishable u/s 120­B of IPC and the
Special Judge took the cognizance finding that there was sufficient
material against the accused in police charge­sheeted, for allegations of
commission of offences by officials (by abusing official position as
public servant pursuant to criminal conspiracy) alongwith unknown
persons by unauthorizedly and illegally the plot in question transferred
from IPC O to ICPO­ICMR, Cooperative Group Housing Society in which
they were also members and ultimately after construction of the flats,
they also obtained individual flats after getting pecuniary benefits for
themselves and others and caused loss to the ICPO­ICMR. Because of
transfer of plots, the officials of ICPO have been deprived of getting
official quarters in future. The petition u/s 482 CrPC was dismissed by
the Hon'ble High Court. While dealing in appeals, on the point of
sanction to prosecute, it was held in paragraph­19 ­''In the instant case,

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 96 of156 ]
 since the allegations made against the Appellants in the final report filed
by the respondent that the alleged offences were committed by them in
discharge of their official duty, therefore, it was essential for the learned
Special Judge to correctly decide as to whether the previous sanction
from the Central Government u/s197 of CrPC was required to be taken
by the respondent, before taking cognizance and passing an order
issuing summons to the appellants for their presence''...Further, ''for the
aforesaid reasons, we set aside the impugned judgment and order of
the High Court dated 27.05.2013 passed in Application Nos. 480 of
2013, 41206, 40718, 41006 and 41187 of 2012 and order dated
07.10.2014 passed in Application No. 277KH of 2014 in Special Case
No.18 of 2012 and quash the proceedings taking cognizance and
issuing summons to the appellants in Special Case No. 18 of 2012 by
the Special Judge, Anti Corruption (CBI), Ghaziabad, U.P in absence of
previous sanction obtained from the Central Government to prosecute
the appellants as required under Section 197 of CrPC. The appeals are
allowed. All the applications are disposed of''. (D). Ashok Shankarrao Chauhan vs. His Excellency Sh. Ch.
Vidyasagar Rao , Hon'ble Governor of Maharashtra, W.P.no.776/2016,
dod 22.12.2007, Bombay High Court]­ By order dated 17.12.2013, the
hon'ble Governor had refused to accord sanction after considering the
material and by proper application of mind. But on 4.2.2016, another
order was passed by subsequent Hon'ble Governor of Maharashtra,
while granting sanction 197 Cr.P.C . for launching prosecution against
the petitioner for offences punishable u/ss 120B & 420 IPC . The grant of
sanction was mainly challenged on ground that order dated 4.2.2016 is
review of previous order 17.12.2013. The CBI had proposed sanction u/s 197 CrPC and u/s 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The
issue was also regarding no scope for review of earlier order. While
considering the issue of material for consideration as well as application
of mind, it was held­
"para­18.The validity of the sanction would, therefore, depend upon the
material placed before the sanctioning authority and the fact that all the
relevant facts, material and evidence have been considered by the
sanctioning authority. Consideration implies application of mind. The
order of sanction must ex facie disclose that the sanctioning authority
had considered the evidence and other material placed before it.... [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 97 of156 ]
 para­19 Since the validity of "sanction" depends on the applicability of
mind by the sanctioning authority to the facts of the case as also the
material and evidence collected during investigation, it necessarily
follows, that the sanctioning authority has to apply its own independent
mind for the generation of genuine satisfaction whether prosecution has
to be sanctioned or not. The mind of the sanctioning authority should
not be under pressure from any quarter nor should any external force
be acting upon it to take decision one way or the other. Since the
discretion to grant or not to grant sanction vests absolutely in the
sanctioning authority, its discretion should be shown to have not been
affected by any extraneous consideration. If it is shown that the
sanctioning authority was unable to apply its independent mind for any
reason whatsoever or was under an obligation or compulsion or
constraint to grant the sanction, the order will be bad for the reason that
the discretion of the authority "not to sanction" was taken away and it
was compelled to act mechanically to sanction the prosecution" 8.3 (Further/counter submissions of State on point of sanction to
prosecute) ­ Now Ld. Public Prosecutor requests that contentions on
behalf of Rakesh Kumar are not tenable, since there were official
noting in detail (ExPW5/DX and Ex.PW5/DY) of the allegations against
Rakesh and there was 'approval with signature' of Hon'ble Minister of
External Affairs, which PW5 had also identified. There is also clear
mentioning of perusal of record of material put up before him, which
was considered besides other circumstances and then sanction
ExPW5/A was given, it is a valid sanction by competent Sanctioning
Authority, PW5 is also competent to sign the sanction order u/s 19 of
the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. There is no infirmity in case
'draft sanction order' is sent, for guidance, as held in CS Krishnamurthy

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 98 of156 ]
 Vs. State of Karnataka 2004(4) SCC 81 that in case a draft sanction
order is sent to the sanctioning authority, then also if there is material on
record to show that sanctioning authority had applied its mind to the
material sent to it then, the sanction order is valid. Since wrong acts of accused Rakesh Kumar are also of sexual
favour, it does not fall into the area of his official duties, therefore,
sanction u/s 197 CrPC was not required. Moreover, sanction order is
also for allied offences, which may be read for all allegations. Shri Raj
Kamal Ld. Public Prosecutor, relies upon: no.339/1997 & Appeal Crl. 351/1997 dod 09.12.2003]­ There were two
sets of proceedings firstly for offences punishable u/s 120B, sec.420
r/w sec.511 IPC & u/s 5(2)(1)(d) of the PC Act 1947 ( which sec. 13(1) (d) in new PC Act 1988), the accused was directed to be charged by
order dated 5.8.1995 by the Special Judge. Secondly, the charge was
framed on accused on 15.11.1995 for offences punishable u/ss
467,468, 471,420,120B IPC & u/s 5(2)(1)(d) of the PC Act 1947 ( which sec. 13(1)(d) in new PC Act 1988). The accused had challenged the
legality of proceedings at the stage of charge, there was sanction of
13.6.1990 but the stand of State was that sanction was unnecessary
and inconsequential since section 197 CrPC was not applicable.
Accused file revision petition before High Court, the revision petition
was allowed in respect of charge framed on 15.11.1995 by setting it
aside and quashing the proceeding. However, proceedings for offences
punishable u/s 120B, sec.420 r/w sec.511 IPC & u/s 5(2)(1)(d) of the PC Act 1947 ( which sec. 13(1)(d) in new PC Act 1988) were directed
to be continued, without findings on the point of validity of sanction
dated 13.6.1990. Hence, the scope of section 197 CrPC was dealt in
detail: Following the above legal position it was held in Harihar Praad, etc. v.
State of Bihar (1972(3) SCC 89) as follows: The impugned judgments of High Court were set­aside. (X2) State of Kerala Vs V. Padmanabhan Nair [Appeal Crl. no.632/1999
dod14.07.1999]. The case against the respondent, in shorts is that while
he was working as Executive Engineer at the Moovattupuzha Valley
Irrigation Project Division, he joined himself into a criminal conspiracy
with four other accused for defrauding the Government by
misappropriating about 600 tonnes of steel rods (costing Rs.
1,26,000/­). When respondent was charge­sheeted for the aforesaid
offences, he appeared before the Special Judge's Court and filed a
petition to discharge him on the ground that no prior sanction, as
contemplated in Section 197 of the Code, has been obtained.
Respondent, however, conceded before the Special Judge that no
previous sanction is necessary under Section 6 of the P.C. Act 1947.
But the Special Judge overruled his contention and held that "there is
no necessary at all to obtain a sanction under Section 197 of the Code
to proceed against the petitioner under the provisions of the P.C. Act 1947." [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 101 of156 ]
 As the matter was taken up before the High Court the decision of
this Court in Harihar Prasad v. State of Bihar , [1972] 3 SCC was cited
before the learned Single Judge, who heard the matter. It was held in the said decision that: "as far as the offence of criminal conspiracy
punishable under Section 120­B, read with Section 409 of the Penal
Code is concerned and also Section 5 (2) of the Prevention of
Corruption Act are concerned, they can not be said to be of the nature
mentioned in Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is not
part of the Code of Criminal Procedure . It is not part of the duty of a
public servant, while discharging his official duties, to enter into a
criminal conspiracy or to indulge in criminal misconduct. Want of
sanction under Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is,
therefore, no bar to a prosecution under Section 120­B, read with
Section 409 of the Penal Code"... This Court has stated the correct legal position in Shreekantiah
Ramayya Munnipalli v. State of Bombay , AIR (1955) SC 287 and also Amrik Singh v. State of Pepsu , AIR (1955) SC 309 that it is not every
offence committed by a public servant which requires sanction for
prosecution under Section 197 of the Code, nor even every act done by
him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official
duties. Consequently, the judgment of quashing by High Court was set aside
and the Special Judge directed to proceed in the matter. ( X3) Matajog Dobey Vs H.C. Bhari (1956 AIR 44, 1955): There was
search warrants, which authorised the officials to enter into the
premises. Four officials went there, the entrance door of one of the
premises and lock of of a room of other premises was broken. On
being challenged, they tied the Caretaker and Proprietor, of respective
premises, besides assaults. Two complaints under IPC ­one by
Caretaker and other by Proprietor­ were filed against officials before
Magistrate. It was proceeded and accused took the plea of want of
sanction to prosecute, since they were authorised by search warrant to
enter into the premises and do search. Their plea was allowed by the
magistrates, which were also confirmed by Hon'ble High Court in the
revision petitions. It was again assailed. The common question under
consideration was 'whether sanction u/s 197 CrPC is necessary and
views of High Court was affirmed. It was discussed 'The interpretation

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 102 of156 ]
 that found favour with Varadachariar, J. in the same case is stated by
him in these terms at page 187: "There must be something in the nature
of the act complained of that attaches it to the official character of the
person doing it". In affirming this view, the Judicial Committee of the
Privy Council observed in Gill's case(1) "A public servant can only be
said to act or purport to act in the discharge of his official duty, if this act
is such as to lie within the scope of his official duty... The test may well
be whether the public servant, if challenged, can reasonably claim that,
what he does, he does in virtue of his office". Hori Ram's case (1) is
referred to with approval in the later ease of Lieutenant Hector Thomas
Huntley v. The King­Emperor (1) but the test laid down that it must be
established that the act complained of was an official act appears to us
unduly to narrow down the scope of the protection afforded by section
197 of the Criminal Procedure Code as defined and understood in the
earlier case. The decision in Meads v. The King (1) does not carry us
any further; it adopts the reasoning in Gill's case (1). There are two
cases of this court to which reference may be made here. In Shreekantiah Ramayya Munipalli v. The State of Bombay (1), Bose, J.
observes as follows: "Now it is obvious that if section 197 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure is construed too narrowly, it can never be applied,
for of course, it is not part of an official's duty to commit an offence and
never can be. But it is not the duty we have to examine so much as the
act, because an official act can be performed in the discharge of official
duty as well as in dereliction of it. The section has content and its
language must be given meaning". The question of previous sanction
also arose in Amrik Singh v. The State of PEPSU (6). A fairly lengthy
discussion of the authorities is followed up with the summary: "If the
acts complained of are so integrally connected with the duties attaching
to the offence as to be inseparable from them, then sanction under
section 197 (1) would be necessary; but if there was no necessary
connection between them and the performance of those duties, the
official status furnishing only the occasion or opportunity for the acts,
then no sanction would be required". 8.4 Ld defence counsel (for accused Rakesh Kumar), with the
permission of court, further submits to the counter submission of State
that there is contradictory of State on the one side, reliance is being
placed on sanction order (Ex.PW5/A) that it is u/s 19 of the PC Act
[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 103 of156 ]
 1988 and of allied offences (although allied offences of IPC are not
mentioned) and on the other side, the plea is that no sanction u/s 197 CrPC is required. It shows that there is still dilemma to the State of two
extremes. Further, the ratio of case of CS Krishnamurthy (supra) was on the
point of draft sanction that it may be sent to the sanctioning authority,
however, the situation in the present case is not just confining to
sending of draft sanction but there are other more circumstances of
competency of PW5, want of sending record of statement of witnesses
recorded u/s 161 CrPC, documents collected were also not sent for
consideration of sanctioning authority. The law presented does not
apply. 9.1 (Findings with reasons on point of 'sanction to prosecute
accused Rakesh Kumar)­ The rival contentions are considered,
keeping in view the material on record, statutory provisions of law and
the law laid down in precedents presented or otherwise. The accused
Rakesh Kumar had also raised issue on the point of sanction after
commencement trial of this, that too after statement of PW5. His
contentions were rejected, without final observations, then he assailed
that order dated 18.3.2013 before Hon'ble High Court of Delhi, however,
while disposing his revision petition by order dated 10.9.2014, it was
held in para 17 thereof that proceedings cannot be quashed in middle
of trial vis a vis the trial court will consider it after evidences by both the
side. Thus, the issue is matter of trial. In view thereof, this court can
determine this issue in this judgment. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 104 of156 ]
 9.2 The relevant material, record and evidence for decision on this
issue are ­ (i) statement of PW5 Joint Secretary (CNV) & CVO, Ministry
of External Affairs, who authored sanction order ExPW5/A (ii) covering
letter no. 4557/3/1 dated 26.9.2017 written to Secretary, MEA, New
Delhi by Shri Satish Golcha on behalf of PW74/IO SK Rathi, it was
accompanying CBI/SP report [this letter reference find mention in
subsequent letter dated 5.10.2007 ExPW74/DX2=ExDW6/7] (iii)
CBI/SP's report with its annexes of list of names of witnesses & names
of documents to be proved (iv) another letter no. 4558 dated 26.9.2007
(Ex PW74/DX1= ExDW6/6) accompanying draft of sanction order send
by Shri Satish Golcha of CBI to Ministry of External Affairs, (v)
Statement of IO/PW74 S K Rathi, (vi) Statement of DW6 Manjeet Singh,
Assistant Section Officer with record. It is relevant, appropriate and
feasible also to reproduce the text of covering letter no. 4557/3/1 dated
26.9.2017 for appreciation of contentions of both the side­

text of letter­

"From­

Satish Glochha, I.P.S. Central Bureau of Investigation
Dy. INSPECTOR GENL. OF POLICE Government of India
 SPECIAL CRIME REGION­1
 S­1, Hutments, Dalhousie Road,
 New Delhi­110 011
 Tel. No. : 011­23013713 Fax: 011­23011334
 No. 4557/3/1(S)/2006­SIU.I/CBI/SCR­
 Dated: 26­09­2007

To
 The Secretary,
 Ministry of External Affairs,

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 105 of156 ]
 Govt. of India, South Block,
 New Delhi. Sub: Case RC.1(S)/2006­SIU­I/CBI/SCR­I/New Delhi (Illegal Human
Trafficking Case). Sir,
 I forward herewith the report of Superintendent of Police, CBI,
SCR­I, New Delhi which gives out the facts of the case and the result of
investigation. 2. The report indicates that there is sufficient material for launching
prosecution against Shri Rakesh Kumar, erstwhile Director General,
Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), New Delhi. The SP's
Report may be treated as a confidential document and should not be
cited anywhere. In case any applicant seeks copy of the SP's Report or
part thereof under RTI Act , views of this office should be ascertained as
per Sec.11 of RTI Act before deciding the matter. 3. The sanction for prosecution u/s 19 of Prevention of Corruption
Act, 1988 may be accorded for prosecuting Shri Rakesh Kumar. 4. This office may be intimated suitable dates for making available
statement of witnesses and relied upon documents, if required. Yours faithfully
Encl: As above. ­sd­
 (Satish Glochha)" In addition, in the first police report/charge­sheet dated 24.12.2007 (it
was filed in the court on 27.12.2007), there is list of 129 files (as
compared to 103 files mentioned in SP report) and number of witness
cited are 87 (as compare to 79 mentioned in list of 'SP report). Moreover, in the SP report, there is also narration of
statement/explanation given by accused persons, it also names
Kehkashan Tyagi (as accused no. A2, not arrested). IO had also
recorded statement u/s 161 CrPC of Ms Kehkashan Tyagi twice ­firstly
on 3.4.2006 and secondly on 6.10.2006 (Ex PW12/Z­5), both statement
are prior to date of SP report dated 26.9.2007. However, name of
Kehkansha Tyagi is not mentioned in the list of witnesses in SP report
but she is cited as a star witness in first police report filed in It also
reflects, since name of Kehkansha Tyagi was not in the list of witnesses
in SP report, the Ministry was never told that she is to be a star witness
of prosecution as well as it also make clear that her statements u/s 161 CrPC were not presented with SP report; her statements were with­
held. rather an impression was given in the SP report as if she is
expected to be charge­sheeted. Ms. Kehkansha Tyagi was examined
as prosecution witness/PW12 in the Court as her name was in the list of
witnesses in the chargesheet. This kind of situation shows, from the
record, that two different parallel representations were made in the
report about a single fact. (B3) In fact SP report along with list is opinion/conclusions drawn by
SP/IO in respect of accused or record and the Sanctioning Authority
was forwarded only that record of 79 pages. Sanctioning Authority had
only considered that record of that opinion/conclusions to make out its
own decision for sanction. (B4) PW5 has explained its official noting dated 4.10.2007
(ExPW5/DX), which regard to departmental action against Rakesh
Kumar and also noting dated 4.12.2007/5.12.2007 (ExPW5/DY) that all

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 108 of156 ]
 allegations against Rakesh Kumar were considered before sanction
was approved by Hon'ble Minister by writing word 'approved' of
proposal but on the other­side of defence, it is emphasized that it
confines to only one aspect of suspension u/s 10(2) of CCS (Conduct)
Rules and not about other two. The record is speaking itself. It was proposed for three items (viz. to
initiation of disciplinary inquiry, suspension of Rakesh Kumar and
sanction to prosecute Rakesh Kumar), the second last authority in
hierarchy endorsed that there can be suspension u/s 10(2) of the Rules.
However, there is common final 'approval' at point B in ExPW5/DY,
without rejection of any­one. It does not mean that by reciting section 10
(2) Rules, the other proposal was deleted or removed from the agenda. But, simultaneously in the contents of both notes (Ex PW5/DX and
Ex.PW5/DY), it is repeatedly mentioned by different expressions [gist of
CBI report, gist of CBI case, accusation of CBI against Rakesh Kumar,
CBI report cites various section etc.] of considering CBI/SP report about
allegations in official noting [ExPWPW5/DX and ExPW5/DY] and there
is no mentioning of or considering other material other than SP report.
Thus, facts were taken as it is from the SP report for making noting and
opinion, by all in the hierarchy, even till noting were put up before
hon'ble Minister of External Affairs. Thus order (ExPW5/A) is not
emerging from original record of statement of witnesses & documents
but from opinions in report of SP. The sanctioning authority or PW5 had
considered only that record and none else. The sanctioning authority
ought to have cognizance of original & actual record of statement and
documents about its existence and contents, particularly referred in the
order ExPW5/A.

(B5) It is admitted case of PW5 that the draft sanction (either prepared
by the Department itself or draft suggested by CBI) was not put up
before final/Sanctioning Authority for approval, even that draft was also
not in record produced by DW6 but other record of 79 pages and draft
order of three pages prepared by CBI and sent to Ministry by separate
letter (ExPW74/DX1=Ex.DW6/6). When the draft was not presented for
approval before the sanctioning authority, there was no occasion for
sanctioning authority to approve it, then how without approval, Shri
Debnath Shaw/PW5 could sign it by treating it as approved. In case the
Department had opined (in noting of 4.10.2007 ExPW5/DX) that draft

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 109 of156 ]
 sanction order is within the parameter of law, it does not mean, it is not
be presented for approval or get approved from sanctioning authority
when noting dated 4.12.2007/5.12.2007 (Ex.PW5/DY) were presented;
the draft was also required to be got approved. (B6) There is no proof that draft order was prepared by the
Department, statement of PW5 does not reconcile in this respect with
record but record sanction order (ExPW5/A) is exact reproduction of
draft sanction of CBI. (B7) The sanction order (ExPW5/A) is signed by PW5 as writing at end
'by order an on behalf of the President of India', PW74 also asserts that
sanctioning authority is also President of India but PW5 is of second
opinion that it is Minister for External Affairs. Despite so, the other
requirements, mentioned above, are not satisfied. (C1) When the actual/original record was not made available to
Sanctioning Authority, how it could be able to apply its independent
mind? It was not feasible. (C2) The sanctioning authority was also to satisfy itself that there was
existence of actual material (of documentary record & statement of
witnesses recorded) and that material record was to be considered for
coming to the conclusion, whether, or not sanction is to be granted,
whereas as per evidence including statement of PW5 & officials noting
(ExPW5/DX & ExPW5/Y) it was just CBI report with lists of witnesses &
list of documents were considered. The material record of statement of
witnesses, documentary record collected or seized during investigation
was not produced before Sanctioning Authority to carry its own analysis
for making opinion, thus order (ExPW5/A) is not based on scrutiny of
documents or actual statement of witnesses mentioned contrary to facts
of never seen the record by them. (C3) It is very clear from the statements of star witnesses, particularly
PW5 that no other record (except SP report of 79 pages & draft
sanction of 3 pages) was before the sanctioning authority. It cannot be
treated an human err/omission since the letter sent and contents of draft
sanction were prepared to need of the case; by mentioning of statement
of witnesses u/s 161 CrPC & documents in the draft shows that they
were aware of requirement. However, in covering letter such documents
were with­held instead just report of SP was sent. Further, in letter

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 110 of156 ]
 dated 5.10.2007 (ExPW74/DX2= ExDW6/7), Mr Satish Golcha
wrote/suggested for regular departmental enquiry against Rakesh
Kumar by mentioning of SP report already sent by letter 26.9.2007.
Thus, actual record was thought not to be sent, it has not been sent. PW/IO 74 projects that record was sent. Whereas, there is no
evidence of sending such record (of statements u/s 161 CrPC or of
documentary record) or showing record to Sanctioning Authority nor
PW5 says so, the statement of PW74/IO that he shown entire record is
not getting any support either from its own record of all letters or from
statement of PW5 or other convincing material as to when it was sent
(?), or in what manner (?) or whether it was at requisition or at whose
instance the production of record was done (?), particularly when he
himself had not written letters to Sanctioning Authority. (D1) The draft order is u/s 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, and
order (Ex PW5/A) is also u/s 19 of the Act 1988 and there is no sanction
order u/s 197 of the Code, 1973 although in body of order ExPW5/A
various sections of the Indian Penal Code are mentioned. PW74 also
confirms that no sanction u/s 197 CrPC was obtained. Ld Public
Prosecutor has contended that it was not required for offences under
the Indian Penal Code , 1860. The case of prosecution is also of
allegations that accused Rakesh Kumar had exceeded his
powers/authority during discharge of official duties as well as he had
sexual favour as one of the consideration. So, one aspect is directly
associated with his routine duties and other aspect is not so. Had there
been allegation/charge of section 354 IPC, sanction would not be
required being law in Explanation to sub­section (1) of section 197 CrPC vis a vis sexual favour may falls in the category of criminal
misconduct under the Act, 1988. Whereas, neither there was charge­
sheet nor such charge u/s 354 IPC. Obviously, sanction u/s 197 CrPC
was contemplated as offences of IPC are mentioned in the body of draft
sanction as well as in sanction order (Ex PW5/A) that there was abuse
of official position by accused but no sanction was requested u/s 197 CrPC nor so obtained nor granted. (D2) The case law presented on behalf of State on the points of
sanction u/s 197 CrPC, when sanction is not required, does not apply to
the situation in hand because of facts and features of this case. The
law of precedents was discussed in 'Padma Sundara Rao & others Vs

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 111 of156 ]
 State of Tamil Nadu & others [2002 3 SCC 533] that ratio of a case is a
facts specific i.e. ratio of a case has to be read as per facts of the
particular case an even change of single fact can make difference to the
ratio of case'. (D3) The precedents CBI Vs, Ashok Kumar Agarwal case (supra) and
other case Ashok Kumar Agarwal Vs CBI case (supra) and other cases
presented on behalf of accused Rakesh Kumar applies to the situation
in present case and there is no other precedent or case law presented
on behalf of State to held the sanction order 10.12.2007 (ExPW5/A) as
valid sanction. Accordingly, the contention on this issue stand disposed off by holding
that sanction order dated 10.12.2007 (ExPW5/A) u/s 19 of the Act,1988
is invalid order to prosecute Rakesh Kumar. 9.4 Now question arises, what are legal consequences of holding the
sanction order invalid. Its answer also lies in law laid down in other
precedents and reliance is placed on followings­ ( a) State of T.N. Vs. M.M. Rajendran 1998 9 SCC 186 dod 5,2,1997­
The respondent was held guilty u/ss 7 & 13(2) of the Act, 1988 by IIIrd
Additional Sessions Judge, Madras, he filed an appeal before High
Court, he had raised issue of valid sanction before proceeding in the
matter, it was also dismissed. Held, "that the High Court has also come
to the finding that although the Personal Assistant to the City
Commissioner of Police, Madras has deposed in the case to
substantiate that proper sanction was accorded by the City
Commissioner of Police, the witness has also stated that the report
even though a detailed one was placed before the Commissioner by
him on consideration of which the Commissioner of Police had
accorded the sanction, it appears to us that from such deposition, it
cannot be held conclusively that all the relevant materials including the
statements recorded by the Investigating Officer had been placed
before the Commissioner of Police. It appears that the Commissioner of
Police had occasion to consider a report of the Vigilance Department. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 112 of156 ]
 Even if such report is a detailed one, such report cannot be held to be
the complete records required to be considered for sanction on
application of mind to the relevant materials on records. Therefore, it
cannot be held that the view taken by the High Court that there was no
proper sanction in the instant case is without any basis. It, however,
appears to us that if the sanction had not been accorded for which the
criminal case could have been initiated against the respondent, there
was no occasion either for the trial court or for the appeal could to
consider the prosecution case on merits. Therefore, the High Court
need not to have made the findings on merits about the prosecution
case. We make it clear that findings made by the courts on merit of
case will stand expunged and will not be taken into consideration in
future". [underlined is supplied for emphasis by this court]. ( b) Nanjappa Vs State of Karnataka 2015 (14) SCC 186 dod 24.7.2015
(relevant paragraphs 19, 20, 21 and 24)­ The charge­sheet was filed
against appellant of allegation of bribe, he was acquitted by the trial
court by holding that prosecution failed to prove the charge, however, in
appeal by State, the High Court converted the acquittal into conviction u/s 7 & 13 r/w 13(2) of the Act 1988, by holding that issue of valid
sanction was not raised at appropriate stage, he was also awarded
sentence and fine. The appellant came in appeal against his conviction,
he also raised issue of sanction. Held­ 19. The legal position was reiterated once more by this court in State
of Karnataka v. C. Nagarajswamy , wherein this Court summed up the
law in the following words: 20. What is important is that, not only was the grant of valid sanction
held to be essential for taking cognizance by the court, but the question
about the validity of any such order, according to this Court, could be

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 113 of156 ]
 raised at the stage of final arguments after the trial or even at the
appellate stage. This Court observed: ( C. Nagarajaswamy case, SCC p.
375, paras 14­16) ­

"14. Ordinarily, the question as to whether a proper sanction has been
accorded for prosecution of the accused persons or not is a matter
which should be dealt with at the stage of taking cognizance. But in a
case of this nature where a question is raised as to whether the
authority granting the sanction was competent therefor or not, at the
stage of final arguments after trial, the same may have to be considered
having regard to the terms and conditions of service of the accused for
the purpose of determination as to who could remove him from service. 15. Grant of proper sanction by a competent authority is a sine qua non
for taking cognizance of the offence. It is desirable that the question as
regard sanction may be determined at an early stage.. 16. But, even if a cognizance of the offence is taken erroneously and
the same comes to the court's notice at a later stage a finding to that
effect is permissible. Even such a plea can be taken for the first time
before an appellate court." Since, the sanction is held invalid and in terms of law laid down in precedents Najappa Vs State of Karnataka & State of T.N. Vs. M.M.
Rajendran that when sanction is held not valid, the accused is to be
discharged as it is related to initial stage of cognizance, accordingly the
accused Rakesh Kumar is discharged and no further findings are
required be given on merits of case in respect of Rakesh Kumar. 9.5 In view of above of discharge of Rakesh Kumar, another legal
question arises, whether the decision in respect of other accused Shiv
Kumar Sharma, Balvinder Bawa and Gurbhej Singh should be with­
held?. The simple answer is, the decision cannot be with­held because
evidence on record for accused Shiv Kumar Sharma, Balvinder Bawa
and Gurbhej Singh will remain the same. But, in view of discharge of

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 114 of156 ]
 Rakesh Kumar, the appreciation of evidence is to be done in such a
manner, without keeping in view case of Rakesh Kumar, since that
evidence on record cannot be read either against or in favour of Rakesh
Kumar, the evidence in this file is like non­est for the purposes of
Rakesh Kumar. Further, it is necessary to make it crystal clear that
charges u/s 120B IPC, u/s 120B r/w 420, 468, 471 IPC r/w sec 13(2) r/w
13(1)(d) of the Act 1988 [common for all] cannot be opined by reading
name of Rakesh Kumar in evidence, for aforementioned reasons, but
otherwise it is be seen what or not has not been proved against other
accused namely Shiv Kumar Sharma, Balvinder Bawa and Gurbhej
Singh by independent assessment. However, the evidence against
Hargulab Singh will also be considered, either led by him or by other
witness. With this finding and clarifications, now the charges against
Shiv Kumar Sharma, Balvinder Bawa and Gurbhej Singh are taken. 10.1 (Issues with regard to other three accused) - Now the
appreciation of evidence is to be carried in respect of other three
accused namely Shiv Kumar Sharma, Balvinder Bawa and Gurbhej
Singh subject to rider mentioned in sub­paragraph 9.5 above.
Accordingly, the submissions of both the parties will be referred and
then it will be decided. 10.2 (Submission on behalf of State)­ Sh. Raj Kamal, Ld. Public
Prosecutor for State contends that in case of conspiracy, it is very rare
when direct evidence would be available or to be established, however,
the acts, deeds and things done spells out what was originally thought
of, this kind of situation is existing in the present case. The totality of

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 115 of156 ]
 circumstances and their sequences are unfolding the material that first
of all Hargulab Singh was intending to send his son Randeep Singh
abroad and to materialize it, a Bhangra group under the name Mehak
Punjab Di was advised as a device to achieve the motive. In this
process all the accused inclusive of PW­4 Hargulab Singh was also a
part and parcel thereof. The application for empanelment was filed, then
as conspired, VCDs, photo album were got prepared to project as if
there was performance of Bhangra group, whereas it was just a
camouflage of performance under the banner of Mehak Punjab Di to
show as some performance by it. In addition, commendation certificates
were got fabricated and Press clippings were got fabricated showing
publication of performance of Mehak Punjab Di of back date. In
manufacturing all these photographs, VCDs, certificates and Press
clippings, there is clear involvement of all the accused as well as of
Hargulab Singh by duplicating of certificates by copying of originals of
Ajeet Singh/Jeeta, then getting it printed from Press as well as news
articles in Manpreet Bulletin from another press. Moreover, accused
Shiv Kumar a well acquaintance to Rakesh Kumar had acted as a
conduit between Rakesh Kumar on the one side and other accused on
the other side, with a clear intention to send the persons abroad to
facilitate them defect from Berlin, Germany and to facilitate it, an huge
amount of Rs. 7.50 Lakhs per person was charged for such facilitation,
which was collected by Shiv Kumar from others and through Balwinder
Bawa for Rakesh Kumar. Accused Balwinder Bawa has also explored
the persons to be joined in the group as well as Shiv Kumar also joined
his persons besides brother­in­law of Gurbhej Singh. The group Mehak

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 116 of156 ]
 Punjab Di was got registered, whereas empanelment was for promotion
of Indian culture abroad, however, this group was not got registered for
this purpose but to achieve their personal gains and to get facilitated to
go abroad and then defect therefrom. All the persons joined in the
group were found not artists rather under the garb of artists, they were
joined in the group. Hargulab Singh, his son and many more were not
artists, since the purpose was to facilitate them to move abroad and
then to defect from Berlin. Those nine persons had succeeded in the
design. There are sufficient material of documentary record
created/forged and filed in support of application for
registration/empanelment of Mehak Punjab Di, consideration in cash
and kind/sexual favour too, joining of non­artists in the group and then
their defection from Berlin are against all the accused to held them
guilty in respect of charges framed against them. The written
submissions reproduces the narrations of witnesses with reference to
some documents. 10.3.1 (Submission on behalf of Shiv Kumar Sharma & Gurbhej
Singh)­ Sh. V.B. Handa, Advocate for the accused has submissions in
two parts, firstly being submissions on behalf of accused Shiv Kumar
Sharma & Gurbhej Singh and second limb is as a reply to the written
submission/synopsis of State on the point of conspiracy. In nutshell, it is
contended that the material on record in the form of oral statement of
witnesses, its analysis as well as the other documentary record, do not
suggest either element of conspiracy among the accused persons or
proof of any of the facts to cull out forgery for the purpose of cheating,

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 117 of156 ]
 cheating or any use of forged document by the accused persons, rather
by taking into account statement of relevant witnesses (particularly PW­
74 & DW­2, DW­3, DW­4) alongwith the record, it proves ground of alibi
in respect of accused Shiv Kumar Sharma and no where Gurbhej Singh
is in the picture, particularly on the alleged dates of 27.4.2005,
19.5.2005 or in the months of March, April, May, June and September
2005. The written submission of State are just reproduction of
examination­in­chief of witness with documents, however, the entire
statement of witnesses are to be read for all fairness. This is the gist of
the submissions. 10.3.2 For the purposes of case of Shiv Kumar Sharma, the material
witnesses are PW­2 Raj Kumar, PW­4 Hargulab Singh, PW­53 Pritam
Singh, PW­74/IO S.K. Rathi, defence witnesses DW­2 Sandeep
Wadhera, DW­3 Dr Gursahab Manes and DW­4 Dr inderjit Singh
Dhaliwal, out of them PW­2 and PW­4 are two star witnesses of
prosecution. PW­2 talked much about business and properties vis a vis
that Shiv Kumar Sharma used to get plots to his friends and his family
members through him but there is no evidence collected or proved to
establish this stand. It was also alleged that Shiv Kumar Sharma had
relations with several IPS officers or he got recruited his nephew in
Punjab Police against payment of Rs.2 lakhs, there is no proof of this
fact. PW­2 is an over interested witness, to see maximum damage to
accused Shiv Kumar Sharma by deposing against him, simultaneously
he admits that there were number of cases registered against him/PW­2
on the complaint of Shiv Kumar Sharma and his relatives. The
circumstances are speaking a lot and the scrutiny of his statement like
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 118 of156 ]
 Shiv Kumar Sharma had purchased the property in the name of Gurbhej
Singh or there was benami transaction or he knows that Shiv Kumar
Sharma used to supply girls to Rakesh Kumar or PW­2 got insurance
policy for himself through the wife of Rakesh Kumar, or so on but not an
iota of fact has been collected or brought in evidence, if they were in
existence, the same should have been proved by prosecution. PW­2
also says that Shiv Kumar used to take cheques from him in lieu of
cash or Gurbhej Singh having told PW­2 that Shiv Kumar Sharma is
assisting to send his brother­in­law abroad, all are nothing but self
creations. During cross­examination of PW­2 many starling facts
appeared like he studied upto 8th standard or he can read a little bit
English but he can sign in English vis a vis the prosecution got identified
many writings from PW­2 as if the same are of Shiv Kumar Sharma,
PW­2 neither saw Shiv Kumar Sharma writing or signing nor he is a
handwriting expert, it is a serious abuse of process of law. PW­2 admits
of his facing various criminal cases, which includes serious offences
and he also admits his enmity with accused Shiv Kumar Sharma
besides he does not know anything about this case and PW­74/IO also
states that it was 14.9.2006 when PW­2 voluntarily came to CBI office
and he recorded the statement, it clearly reflects that there was
connivance between them, otherwise no where in the trial it surfaced as
to how PW­2 is a relevant witness or to which fact for this case or why
he reached CBI, when he does not fall in the category of any kind of
witness to case. PW­2 Raj Kumar was nourishing grudge against Shiv
Kumar. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 119 of156 ]
 PW­74 claims that it was November 2006 when he came to
know about litigation pending between accused Shiv Kumar Sharma
and PW­2 Raj Kumar, however, the official record of DDR No. 33 dated
3.10.2006 produced by DW­2 Sandeep Wadhera SHO at P.S. Sadar,
Ludhiana proves that PW­74 had threatened him for action on phone, it
is not fair on the part of IO to say that he came to know about litigation
in November 2006. PW­53 Pritam Singh also talks about the pressure
of CBI, when he was detained for two days to narrate that he had paid
money to accused, whereas he remained affirmed to his stand that no
money was paid by him to the accused persons. Similarly, PW­4 Hargulab Singh mentions about many facts of
year 2002 or he heard from some people of Haibowal that Shiv Kumar
Sharma was sending persons abroad after taking money, there is no
proof of such imaginary facts. PW­4 further says that Shiv Kumar
Sharma told him to form a Bhangra group or in March 2005 he
alongwith Shiv Kumar and Gurbhej Singh went to Delhi and Rs.1 lakh
was given to Shiv Kumar Sharma for being paid to Rakesh Kumar or
on 27.4.2005 Shiv Kumar Sharma handed over Rs.1 lakh to Rakesh
Kumar or in May 2005 he alongwith Shiv Kumar and Gurbhej again
visited office of ICCR or it was told that only three persons out of the
group could be left abroad, all these are nothing but the bundle of lies
and concocted story. PW­5 Hargulab Singh was named as accused,
however, he became approver but his entire evidence remains
uncorroborated and it is settled law that an approver is most unreliable
and untrustworthy witness, who had bargained for his immunity. He had
to qualify the test of worthiness for his credibility in the Court, the

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 120 of156 ]
 provisions of Indian Evidence Act inclusive of section 114 (illustration
'b') provides that Court may presume an accomplice is unworthy of
credit unless his evidence is corroborated on material particulars. There
is no corroboration of the facts to the evidence of PW­4 Hargulab Singh.
Moreover, the documentary evidence produced by defence witnesses
(DW­3 and DW­4) clearly establish that Shiv Kumar Sharma was
present in his office at Punjab Agricultural University Ludhiana,
particularly on 27.4.2005 and 5.9.2005, the dates which PW­4 falsely
alleges that Shiv Kumar Sharma and Gurbhej Singh were accompanied
by him to the office of ICCR, Delhi. The timings of office of Shiv Kumar
was from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.. This evidence demolishes the entire case of
prosecution and it establishes that Shiv Kumar Sharma and Gurbhej
Singh never went to the office of Rakesh Kumar and there is a false
story against these accused in respect of empanelment of group Mehak
Punjab Di, which is nothing but brain child of PW­4 Hargulab Singh. The investigating agency introduced Kehakashan Tyagi as a
witness as a thought that some sort of corroboration shall be provided
by Kehakashan Tyagi, if she is made a prosecution witness instead of
an accused. There are various circumstances which shows the link
between PW­4 Hargulab Singh and PW­12 Kehakashan Tyagi, like PW­
12 had enjoyed hospitality of PW­4 on 1.9.2005 in Ludhiana, as she
was get lodged in Hotel Maharaja Regency, booked by Hargulab Singh
by citing wrong address, shopping to her at Mall Road, Ludhiana at the
expenses of Hargulab Singh, she had handed over official letter of
empanelment personally to Hargulab Singh, whereas the letter was sent
by post officially on 8.9.2005, it was received back undelivered. PW­12

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 121 of156 ]
 was also declared hostile, as she was not supporting the case of
prosecution. Moreover, PW­12 Kehakashan Tyagi was named in
column no. 12 of police report vis a vis she was also arrayed in the list
of witnesses, how this can be practiced in police report by the
investigating agency, it is against the basic cannon of law. PW­12
deposed that she had not received any list of members participants
from Shiv Kumar Sharma to be sent to Germany nor whether other
section of ICCR had received any list from Shiv Kumar Sharma,
consequently the prosecution case that only those persons would be
sent abroad to be named by Shiv Kumar Sharma is negated. There is
no evidence or an inference to prove nexus between Shiv Kumar
Sharma and Rakesh Kumar. The accused Shiv Kumar Sharma was arrested and he was kept
in jail; whereas on the other side Hargulab Singh was not arrested when
he arrived India vis a vis IO did not verify but during pending trial of this
case, he wrote letter on 10.8.2015 (Ex. DW­3/A) to Punjab Agricultural
University to ascertain the leave availed by Shiv Kumar Sharma during
March 2005 to July 2005 and on the other side IO states he did not
verify from the Punjab Agriculture University, whether, or not he was
present there. It is very highly tainted and shoddy investigation and
inconsistent statement of PW­74. The statements of PW­4 and PW­74
cannot be read and relied upon. IO had not tried to join other members
of group in the investigation, who had returned India after taking asylum
in Berlin. The circumstances are establishing that Shiv Kumar Sharma
had not gone to Delhi at any point of time with regard to empanelment
of group Mehak Punjab Di nor he had any role vis a vis the allegations

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 122 of156 ]
 are false against him. Hargulab Singh is also involved in getting
prepared false declaration for passport by giving different date of birth
and different names which has been detected in police inquiry. His
conduct also speaks a lot that he alongwith his son went abroad and
defected there besides other members which was with his prior
preparation. The statement of PW­35 Praveen Kumar is also much
relied witness of prosecution, however, how his version can be believed
when he says that Shiv Kumar Sharma was in police in Ludhiana and
he can identify Shiv Kumar Sharma but he failed to identify Shiv Kumar
Sharma in the Court. PW­37 Arjun Dass of Hotel Zimindara Dhaba
deposed that all the entries in the register of hotel were pertaining to
Hargulab Singh, no where accused Shiv Kumar Sharma is involved.
However, on 2.9.2005 when Shiv Kumar Sharma went to Ludhiana to
see Rakesh Kumar, there Kehakashan Tyagi suggested that Shiv
Kumar Sharma may be sent with the group and he agreed being an
allurement to travel abroad at the expenses of Government, he was
attracted by such allurement and thereafter on 5.9.2005 ICCR wrote to
University. It is his bonafide but he had no role either in India or abroad
to defect any member of the group. He wrote to the authorities
immediately, when the members of group were found missing during
stay in Berlin, it does not make out any offence against him. Shiv Kumar
Sharma remained in judicial custody. There were allegation of collection
of amount but no evidence has been gathered about recovery of such
amount, nor ICCR New Delhi has disclosed any fact to the IO that Shiv
Kumar Sharma was instrumental in defection of the members of the
group. No case has been proved against Shiv Kumar Sharma. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 123 of156 ]
 10.3.3 PW­4 Hargulab Singh deposed that Sh. Amanjeet Singh is
brother­in­law of Gurbhej Singh or he had paid money to Shiv Kumar
Sharma, however, Gurbhej Singh had explained in his statement u/s
313 Cr.P.C that he has no brother­in­law by name Amanjeet Singh nor
he had approached Shiv Kumar Sharma to send his brother­in­law
abroad. It is PW­21 Harjinder Singh [father of Amanjeet Singh] says that
he had not paid any amount to anyone for his son Amanjeet Singh, who
had actually gone abroad. IO/PW­74 had not clarified or investigated
any fact whether Amanjeet Singh was brother­in­law of Gurbhej Singh. These vital aspects have not been considered in investigation to be
verified by the IO. Moreover, PW­61 Sarwan Singh, Assistant Commandant was
examined in the Court and a letter dated 8.3.2007 alongwith fax (Ex.
PW­61/A) about the period 1.1.2005 to 30.9.2005 and 20.12.2002 to
31.3.2006 that Constable Gurbhej Singh was posted as Gunman to Sh.
A.S. Chahal PPS (SP), however there was no cross examination to
challenge the relevant facts deposed by PW­61 in favour of Gurbhej
Singh. PW­61 was also declared hostile but nothing was cull out against
Gurbhej Singh. It stood established that at no point of time Gurbhej
Singh was deputed with Shiv Kumar Sharma and it also falsifies story of
PW­4 that he alongwith Gurbhej Singh alongwith Shiv Kumar were
visiting accused Rakesh Kumar in Delhi. It does not appeal to anyone
the story devised by PW­4 or by others. 10.3.4 Thus, there is no direct or circumstantial evidence of conspiracy.
There is no role of Shiv Kumar Sharma in formation of Mehak Punjab Di

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 124 of156 ]
 group or its empanelment or demand or receive of any money from any
member of group or preparation or rehearsal of Bhangra group or
instrument in defection of members of group. Rather, he wrote letter to
the authorities immediately. Similarly, there is no brother­in­law by the
name Amanjeet Singh of Gurbhej Singh nor Gurbhej Singh visited Delhi
with Shiv Kumar Sharma or with Hargulab Singh. 10.3.5 It is admitted case of prosecution in its written synopsis that
there is no direct evidence of conspiracy, however, from the evidence,
even there is no element of conspiracy is emerging from evidence on
record. There is no proof of visit in March 2005 by accused Shiv Kumar
Sharma or of Gurbhej Singh, no record has been collected with regard
to entry in office to show that there was visit by them. The explanation
of prosecution that no entry could be there since Hargulan Singh was
with Shiv Kumar Sharma, who has acquaintance with Rakesh Kumar, is
not believable, since it is a public office. Shiv Kumar Sharma was in his
office on 27.4.2005 and 5.9.2005, no evidence has been produced from
the reception of ICCR office if there was such visit. There is also no
proof that accused Shiv Kumar or Gurbhej Singh were in any way
connected with the formalities of empanelment of Mehak Punjab Di
rather it is the case of PW­4 Hargulab Singh that he applied and visited
ICCR office for empanelment of the group. The facts and circumstances
are reflecting conspiracy of PW­4 Hargulab Singh and PW­12
Kehakashan Tyagi. The CBI had not applied to the Court to take the
specimen of Shiv Kumar Sharma, the expert opinion cannot be
considered. There is also inconsistent statement of PW4 about idea of
formation of Bhangra Group in January 2005 or March 2005. Therefore,
[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 125 of156 ]
 prosecution failed to prove the allegations against the accused persons
and they deserve acquittal. 10.4 (Submission on behalf of Balvinder Bawa) - Ld. Defence
counsel Sh. S.B. Sharma, Advocate submits that first of all it is to be
seen what kind of charge was framed and only from that angle the
submissions are advanced. The charge against Balwinder Bawa is of
conspiracy u/s 120­B IPC and 468 IPC of forgery for the purposes of
cheating, that too is of a narrow compass of forging of newspaper
bulletin or photo album, VCDs and fake certificates. However, there is
no evidence against Balwinder Bawa of such charges. The State had
filed written submission, also discussing the concept of conspiracy and
it is clearly mentioned in the submission that there is no direct evidence
of conspiracy in the present case. The case of prosecution itself is of
circumstantial evidence, but no circumstantial evidences has been
surfaced or proved against the accused either to cull out conspiracy or
forgery for the purposes of cheating. Neither accused Balwinder Bawa ever since visited the office of
ICCR at any point of time, nor she is signatory to the application nor any
member of Mehak Punjab Di, consequently when no where she is
involved, how it can be alleged that she is in the conspiracy. Moreover,
PW­4 Hargulab Singh himself admits and narrates that application form
or other record were furnished by him, how the accused can be blamed
for wrong done by PW4. So far allegations of visiting of Printing Press
for commendation certificates are concerned, it is abundantly clear from
the statement of PW­4 that he alongwith PW­54 Ajeet Singh @ Jeeta

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 126 of156 ]
 Pawar and PW­56 Jaswant Singh Cheema visited the Printing Press
and he also states that he filled in and signed those commendation
certificates, accused Balwinder Bawa is no where in the picture. In
addition, PW­30 Baljeet Singh of Printing Press further confirms that it
was Hargulab Singh and another person came to him, he does not
mention woman or name Balwinder Bawa. PW­54 was also cross­
examined on behalf of State and he failed to confirm the plea of State
that it was Hargulab Singh, Jaswant Singh Cheema, Balwinder Bawa
and PW­54 went to Manpreet Bulletin. There is no proof of visiting of
Balwinder Bawa to the office of Manpreet Bulletin for newspaper
clippings. So far performance at Zimindara Dhaba is concerned, it was
professional performance on 01.09.2005 but accused was never told by
Hargulab Singh the purpose of that performance. There is also no proof
that Hotel Classic Retreat was booked by her on 01/02.09.2005. The
statements of PW­9 & PW­10 are contradictory, they deposed
differently, which do not inspire confidence as on the one side they say
they reached Sherpur Chowk and on the other side they say Balwinder
Bawa had taken them from Sherpur Chowk, where Gurbhej Singh had
brought them vis a vis they narrated it was in April/May 2006; which
was not the case of the prosecution. There is also no documentary
proof that PW­9 & PW­10 had gone to Hotel Classic Retreat, there is
also no complaint filed by them against Balwinder Bawa. The
recovery/seize of so called documents is suspicious from the statement
of PW­22, PW­19 & PW­74, since PW22 says the recovery was
effected from the residence of Balwinder Bawa but the other witness
PW19 claims that the documents were produced by Balwinder Bawa vis

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 127 of156 ]
 a vis PW­74 give some strange detail that he had visited Ludhiana
twice. If he had gone there for making search at the house of Shiv
Kumar on one date and then at the house of Balwinder Bawa on other
date as well as his third visit is in jail to interrogate Balwinder Bawa, his
testimony does not stand on truth. Thus, so called recovery is doubtful,
it does not inspire confidence. Moreover, PW­53 Pritam Singh [father of
Prabhjot] deposed that he was kept for two days in CBI office by
insisting him to state that he had paid the money in respect of his son,
however, PW­53 had not conceded to the pressure of CBI. This shows
how CBI had pressurized the witness to depose as per its wishes.
Under these circumstances, the material on record do not establish that
there was any meeting of mind to cull out conspiracy or involvement of
Balwinder Bawa at any point of time for empanelment of Mehak Punjab
Di or at any time subsequently. She is a professional singer and in case
she made performances at some functions, it will not attract criminality
in the form of present prosecution. In fact, the circumstances are
reaffirming her innocence. It is concluded that to avoid repetition, the
submission on law point & appreciation of evidence made on behalf of
other accused may also be considered for this accused. She is entitled
for acquittal. 11.1 (Findings on these issues) ­ Since there are manifold facts at
different locations and some of them are also carrying sequence.
Therefore, for effective appreciation of evidence, the events may be
divided broadly in three phases vis a vis discussion on evidence,
whether it establish or not the charges against accused persons : It is also law that an accomplice is a competent witness but rule of
caution and presumption casts that testimony of an accomplice shall be
corroborated by material particulars. Therefore, while appreciating the
evidence, the statement of approver need not to be corroborated in
each aspect by other independent testimony, but when additional
evidence support the statement of accomplice, then statement of
accomplice will be treated as corroborated. Similarly, PW2 is not direct
evidence to any of the phases of events but he claims to be having
information or knowing Shiv Kumar Sharma as well as his social
relations & personal affairs etc. Therefore, it will be appropriate to
discuss the evidence, initially by keeping aside statements of PW4 and
of PW2, to be considered after statements of others, subject to
necessary exceptions. In order to stream­lines the sequences, it is necessary to narrate
them briefly. First of all on second visit at ICCR office, an application
dated 27.4.2005 (Ex.PW4/A) with four photographs (Ex.PW4/B1 to
Ex.PW4/B4 of Bhangra Group), a visiting card of Mehak Punjab Di

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 129 of156 ]
 (Ex.PW4/C) and an Entry Card of Jallandhar Doordarshan Kendra [in
yellow colour ExPW4/D) was filed under the signature of Hargulab
Singh. Thereafter, an album of 39 photographs [Ex.PW4/M, consisting
32 photos of Bhangra without banner of Mehak Punjab Di and 24
photos with banner in background of Mehak Punjab Di], 2 VCDs of
Bhangra performances [ExPW4/I­1 and ExPWQ4/I­2], copies of
commendation certificates and newspapers bulletins [part of Mark Z1 to
Z9] were filed. The performance VCDs were considered by the Expert
Sub­Committee. Letter dated 31.8.2005 of empanelment of Mehak
Punjan Di [Ex PW4/R] was delivered to Hargulab Singh in Ludhiana on
1.9.2005 by PW12. Then application forms for officials passports were
filled in, ordinary passports were kept by ICCR by surrender certificates
and visas were obtained. The Group of 15 members made departure for
cultural programme at Berlin, out of 9 members defected and 6
members came back. 12.1 It is matter of record and also written submission of State that
there is no direct material of conspiracy vis a vis it is rare to have direct
evidence of conspiracy. It has not been surface in evidence whether, or
not visitors register is maintained or how visitors are dealt on direct
window or else in the Office of ICCR. Thus, there is no documentary
evidence to show of visit of accused persons in March 2005, on
27.4.2005, 5.9.2005 or on other dates in the office of ICCR, New Delhi
except that application form dated 27.4.2005 of Hargulab Singh, filed on
that day, which was registered vide no. Folk/Punjab/129/4 and
applications for officials passports were of 5.9.2005. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 130 of156 ]
 12.2 There are other attending circumstances, since this application
was further supplemented with more record of 2 VCDs, album, copies of
news clippings and commendation certificates, which were placed after
short time of filing of application. How this record came into existence
and who are involved therein, it is to be explored from evidence. The statements of witnesses [PW54 Ajeet Singh, PW56 Jaswant
Siingh Cheema, PW30 Baljeet Singh] are material. PW54 says that
Balwinder Bawa alongwith Hargulab Singh came to him, since he
knows her. He was convinced by them to go abroad, he had handed
over his certificates. PW56 was also present, he was also convinced.
PW56 also says that he alongwith Hargulab Singh and Balwinder Bawa
had gone to the office of PW30/Printing Press of at Shivpuri for getting
printing of duplicate certificates but concerned person was not there on
that day of visit, that is why thereafter on second visit Hargulab Singh
had also gone there. Similarly, he also visited office of other press in
Subhash Nagar alongwith Hargulab Singh & Balwinder Bawa for getting
printed news items in Manpreet Bulletin of back­date. It is also deposed
both by PW54 and PW56 that printed certificates were brought in the
office of PW54, which were filled in by PW4 and two certificates
[ExPW4/F5 and ExPW4/F6] were filled in by him at the instance of
PW4 and accused Balwinder Bawa. However, handwriting expert
(PW67) had not tendered his opinion about manuscript writings in
'Gurmukhi script' in those certificate because of want of knowledge of
Gurmukhi script. It was contended on behalf of accused Balwinder
Bawa that PW30 had not uttered about visit of Balwinder Bawa at Press
nor by PW54 during his cross examination by State. However, there is
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 131 of156 ]
 no confusion since there are mentionin of two separate Press/Offices
one is at Shivpuri of PW30 and another is at Subash Nagar. PW56
clearly speaks that he accompanied at both places, however, on first
visit at press of PW30, Balwinder Bawa also accompanied him but
concerned person at Press office was not there, that is why Hargulab
Singh had gone there again for duplication of certificates. Both witnesses PW54 and PW56 had participated in the
programme organized by Hargulab Singh at Rohan Road, Ludhiana in
those programme photographs and VCDs were prepared. Accused
Balwinder Bawa had also joined it as performer. She admits allegations
(in her reply to question no.372) about her picture/ presence in the
photographs (ExPW4/M) but she also claimed (in her reply to question
no.561) that photographs were of 1.9.2005 of event at Zimindara
Dhaba. Whereas, it was around May 2005 when the photographs (Ex
PW4/M) were filed together VCDs, newspaper clippings & copies of
certificates in support of application dated 27.4.2005; it much before the
event of 1.9.2005 at Zimindara Dhaba. The album (ExPW4/M) is not of
event of 1.9.2005 as claimed by Balwinder Bawa. PW56 confirms his
picture in the album as well as in VCDs, PW56 also confirms his
picture in photograph appeared in Manpreet Bulletins got printed from
the Press. It was just staged performances for preparing record in VCDs
and photographs to show /project that Mehak Punjab Di had done
performance in some function. 12.3 There are copies of commendation certificates & newspaper
cuttings [part of Mark Z1 to Z9] filed too. The original commendation

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 132 of156 ]
 certificates & newspaper Manjeet Bulletin [Ex.PW4/F1 to Ex.PW4/F6,
Ex.PW4/G, ExPW4/H] were seized on 9.11.2006 by seizure memo
[Ex.PW19/A] during the presence of PW19 and PW22 from accused
Balwinder Bawa. The seized documents are bearing signatures of both
PW19 & PW22 as token of seizure in their presence. Ld. Defence
counsel has pointed out that there is major contradiction in the
statements of PW19, PW22 and PW74, as one version of PW22 is
about seizure of documents from the residence of Balwinder Kaur but
other version of PW19 is it was seized from Balwinder Kaur, whereas
PW74 says it was produced by Balwinder Bawa, he had not given any
notice for production of record. By reading their statements and record
together, PW22 and PW19 had joined PW74 for investigation at
Inspection Quarters BSNL Ludhiana, seizure memo Ex.PW19/A also
mentions the same address of Inspection Quarter vis a vis PW22 also
says of his visit at residence of Balvinder Bawa as well as documents
were seized from Balwinder Bawa. Thus, it proves the recovery of
documents from Balwinder Bawa, she also signed the seizure memo as
producer of documents besides signature of both the witnesses on
documents seized, there is no cross examination to the version of
PW22. IO/PW74 also deposed that record was produced at Inspection
Quarter. There is no ambiguity. Another component is of reply by
Balwinder Bawa (to question no.283) that on that day she was in jail
and not at her residence, however, as per statement of defence
witness/DW1 (who produced jail record of inmate Balwinder Bawa), she
was not in jail on 9.11.2006. Consequently, it leaves no scope to say
that seizure memo was got signed in jail. In another reply (to question

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 133 of156 ]
 no.288) she said, she has no knowledge of those
certificates/documents [viz. Ex.PW4/F1 to Ex.PW4/F6, Ex.PW4/G,
ExPW4/H]. However, a question arises, how could those documents be in
possession of Balwinder Bawa, since it was Hargulab Singh who filled
in and get it filled certificates in the office of PW54? This requires to
refer the statement of PW4, for limited purposes, that when PW4 had
made departure to Germany, he had handed­over the original
documents to Balwinder Bawa at Delhi to keep them with her. That is
why it were in her possession and she produced them before CBI. This
does not disprove the recovery from her. 12.4 The said certificates [Ex.PW4/F1 to Ex.PW4/F6, Ex.PW4/G,
ExPW4/H] were got printed from the press of PW30 Baljeet Singh of
Dilkhush Printing Press. The other relevant witnesses are (PW29,
PW31, PW32, PW34, PW70) of religious and other social organisations,
none of them had been cross examined on behalf of accused. PW29 of
Sidh Baba Balak Nath Prachar Sangh deposed that certificate Ex
PW4/F­3 was not issued by them. PW32 of Samaj Sudhar Committee
had not issued certificate Ex PW4/F­2 nor it bears signature of office
bearer. PW34 of Shahid Dilbagh Singh Sabhyachar Mela had also not
issued certificate Ex PW4/F5 [it is a paper­bond of 22cmx27.5cm] but
actual practice is to issue in photo­frame [as form & format in photo­
frame Ex PW34/B, of size 44cmx32cm]. PW70 of Gaddi Nishan
Samadhi Baba Sheikh Farid had also not issued certificate Ex PW4/F6
but it issues in the shape of Trophy containing monogram and depicting

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 134 of156 ]
 in middle photo of Baba Farid, like Trophy ExPW54/A (which was
awarded to PW54 Ajeet Singh alias Jeeta Pawar). Thus, certificates
[Ex.PW4/F1 to Ex.PW4/F6] have been proved fabricated and forged
documents, its copies [parts of Mark Z1 to Z9] were filed in support of
application for empanelment of Mehak Punjab Di. The news­clippings
are of same status, they were got printed ante­dates from the press. 12.5 On 29.3.2006, search at the residence of Shiv Kumar Sharma at
Durgapuri, Ludhiana was done by IO/PW74 by joining two independent
witnesses (PW22 and PW60) and during search the seized items were
commendation certificates (Ex. PW­22/B, in Hindi, Ex. PW­22/C in
Punjabi, Ex. PW­22/D1, Ex. PW­22/D2, Ex. PW­22/E1, Ex. PW­22/E2,
all in Punjabi, Ex. PW­22/F in English, Ex. PW­22/G in English) and
participants' identity cards of Doordarshan Kender Jalandhar (Ex.PW­
22/H1 & Ex.PW­22/H2) by memo ExPW22/A. Each of such documents
were endorsed by signatures by witnesses as token of its seizure in
their presence besides seizure of personal diaries (ExPW2/B, ExPW2/C
and ExPW2/D) of Shiv Kumar Sharma. Accused Shiv Kumar Sharma in
his statement as well as in final submissions emphasized that a forcible
entry was made into his house and he was brought to office of CBI, he
was arrested and he had to remain in custody. However, independent
witnesses (PW22 and PW60) were neither cross­examined on this
issue nor the witnesses had deposed any fact of forcible entry into the
house. Thus, search and seizure was carried peacefully. The seized
articles are not disputed. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 135 of156 ]
 Ld. Defence counsel has another reservations that visit of
IO twice in Ludhiana create doubtful circumstance as once he visited
Balwinder Kaur in jail, then search of residence of Shiv Kumar Sharma
and another claimed visit at residence of Balwinder Kaur or at
Inspection Quarter. Its answer is in the record, first of all on 29.3.2005
IO had gone to Ludhiana for search of house of Shiv Kumar Sharma, at
that time Balwinder Bawa was in jail and other date of visit was of
9.11.2006, when Balwinder Bawa produced the record in Inspection
Quarter, BSNL. No other date has surfaced on record from either side
about visit of IO in Ludhiana. 12.6 The certificates/blank certificates [Ex. PW­22/B, in Hindi, Ex. PW­
22/C in Punjabi, Ex. PW­22/D1, Ex. PW­22/D2, Ex. PW­22/E1, Ex. PW­
22/E2, all in Punjabi, Ex. PW­22/F in English, Ex. PW­22/G in English]
are matching the record of copies of certificates [part of Z1 to Z9] filed
with application Ex.PW4/A in office of ICCR as well as other
commendation certificates [Ex.PW4/F1 to Ex.PW4/F6, Ex.PW4/G,
ExPW4/H] recovered from accused Balwinder Bawa. Moreover, the
participants' identity cards of Doordarshan Kender Jalandhar (Ex.PW­
22/H1 & Ex.PW­22/H2) recovered by memo ExPW22/A from the house
of accused Shiv Kumar Sharma are also of yellow color, which are
identical to participant's identity card Jallandhar Doordarshan
(Ex.PW4/D) and other commendation certificates, which were initially
filed with application form dated 27.4.2005 (ExPW4/A). It cannot be
co­incident, particularly the documents seized are matching with the
copies filed in support of application as well as to each others'

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 136 of156 ]
 documents. There is hidden thread, it is emerging from layers of
expressions of recovered identical documents. 13.1 In the second phase the relevant witnesses are PW9, PW10,
PW25, PW33, PW35, PW37, PW53, PW54, PW56 and corresponding
record of photographs etc. Since, the performance of Mehak Punjab Di
was to be viewed officially, thus venue of Zimindara Dhaba was
selected, it was booked by Hargulab Singh, which is not disputed fact.
It is also not disputed that it was PW12 Kehkashan Tyagi, who had
personally delivered the letter dated 31.8.2005 (Ex.PW4/R, under the
signature of Shri R.M. Agarwal) to PW4 Hargulab Singh, this letter was
also seized in search of his house by search memo dated 29.3.2005
(ExPW4/Q). The performance was to be viewed by officials of ICCR and
its Director General Rakesh Kumar, its Programme Officer/PW12
Kehkansha Tyagi had also viewed the performance done on 1.9.2005
and 2.9.2005. Their presence is not disputed. However, accused Balwinder Bawa admits her presence on
1.9.2005 at Zimindara Dhaba just as a performer on invitation of
Hargulab Singh as trial without payment of any consideration (reply to
question nos. 175 and 176), she left the venue after performance at 7
pm (reply to question no.236), artists PW9 and PW10 came there of
their own and they had also left for their residence after performance on
1.9.2005 (reply to question no.237). PW37 Arjun Chand was also
present there. Balwinder Bawa alongwith her artists visits Zamindara
Dhaba for lunch generally (reply to question nos.421 & 435). She also
admits her picture in photograph of performance (at point X in

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 137 of156 ]
 ExPW4/E­7), picture of Hargulab Singh in another photo (at point Y in
ExPW4/E­8), pictures of PW9 and PW10 (reply to question nos
372,153, 155). However, she does not know the purpose of putting
banner Mehak Punjab Di behind stage. The VCDs are stated to be
matter of record. PW3 Pawan and PW55 Raji had been there of their
own (reply to questions 180 and 346). Witnesses PW39 and his son
PW40 say that they visited Zimindara Dhaba on that day on insistence
of Balwinder Kaur, they had not participated in performance but PW40
was aspirant to go abroad. The performance was recorded in VCDs
[ExPW9B1 and ExPW9/B2] and in photographs [ExPW4/E­1 to
ExPW4/E­39, its still CD is ExPW33/A], both PW9 and PW10 identify
their pictures in those videos and photographs. 13.2 Accused Shiv Kumar Sharma admits his presence at Zimindara
hotel/ dhaba but of 2.9.2005 that too at 3pm to see Rakesh Kumar
visiting there, where PW12 Kehkashan Tyagi asked him to join the
Group, it was his first time to come to know it. He was not present there
on 1.9.2005, there is no question of any episode of night between
1/2.9.2005 (these are also the replies by him to questions
no.176,152,192, 458) and he never went to office of Rakesh Kumar in
this regard (reply to question 442); he rarely visits office of Rakesh
Kumar. Although during cross­examination of PW4, Rakesh Kumar and
Shiv Kumar Sharma had denied their presence at Zimindara Dhaba. 13.3 Accused Gurbhej Singh claimed, he has no role at any stage and
he had no reason to go to Zimindara Dhaba on 1.9.2005 or 2.9.2005. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 138 of156 ]
 Since he had not gone there, there was no reasons for him to pick and
drop any one or any girl. 13.4 The evidence is to be revisited. PW3 Pawan Kumar was asked by
Sonam Gill for performance at Zimindara Dhaba and she also
requested him to bring one more male and female artist, PW3 reached
at venue of Zimindara Dhaba with other male artist PW25 Mr.Vipin and
female artist Ms Sonia. They were paid for their performance at
Zimindara Dhaha. Then on receipt of information from PW3 about
programme proposed by Balwinder Bawa, PW55 alongwith her mother
visited house of Balwinder Bawa to consent to send her abroad as an
artist in the Group. PW9 and PW10 also deposed that they had gone
Zimindara Dhaba as performer/dancer on asking of accused Balwinder
Kaur, they were paid charges for performance. They also identify their
pictures in the videos and photos. They also describe the episode
happened in the room of hotel, since both were asked by Balwinder
Bawa and Hargulab Singh and in the next morning accused Gurbhej
picked them from a Hotel and taken to Hargulab Singh and Balwinder
Bawa. PW9 was cross­examined on behalf of accused Balwinder Bawa,
it was responded by PW9 as 'It is incorrect to suggest that I myself
alongwith my Bua 'A' [name with­held] wanted to visit abroad alongwith
group, therefore, for our own we went to the hotel room with Shiv
Kumar Sharma and Rakesh Sharma'. The other witness PW10 in her
cross­examination says 'Accused Balwinder Bawa is my Mami. It is
correct that at the instance of Balwinder Bawa I had given dance
performance a various places. It is correct that whatever dance

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 139 of156 ]
 performance I had given with Balwinder Bawa I was paid for the same'
It affirms the case of prosecution about presence of Shiv Kumar
Sharma, Gurbej Singh, Balwinder Bawa on 1.9.2005 and 2.9.2005 at
that venue and it negates the stand of Shiv Kumar Sharma about his
absence on 1.9.2005 at Zimindara Dhaba as well as after performance
was over. It also negate the plea of absence of Gurbhej Singh at that
venue. The photographs of performance also proves that Balwinder
Bawa was also present in performance of 2.9.2005, by negating her
plea that she left the venue after performance of 1.9.2005 was over at
about 7pm. The performance of 1.9.2005 was at night time and last long
as appearing from the statement of other witnesses too. 13.5 There are oral statements of witnesses about presence of
accused persons. The photographs are of performers. The official team
viewed the performance. Some of accused are admitting their presence,
partly for one day or fully for both days. However, the circumstances on
record proves presence of accused Shiv Kumar Sharma, Balwinder
Bawa and of Gurbhej Singh. PW12 Kehkansha Tyagi alongwith DG
Rakesh Kumar also came there to view the performance is not a
disputed fact, which is also getting support from their official record of
availing train tickets for visiting Ludhiana. Then process of filling in
application for official passport was started as per names given. 13.6 The application forms for official passports are bearing date of
5.9.2009 [of Shiv Kumar, Satnam Singh, Pawan Kumar, Amanjit Singh,
Jageep Singh, Prabhjot Singh, Satnam Singh, Raji respectively
ExPW2E to ExPW2/L and of Amanpreet Singh ExPW12/S]. Other

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 140 of156 ]
 applications for official passports of Hargulab Singh (ExPW4/K),
Randeep Singh (ExPW4/L), Mandeep Singh (ExPW12/O), Gurmeet
Kaur (ExPW12/X) and of others were filled in and furnished. On
5.9.2005 itself surrender certificates of each individual, in respect of
ordinary passport, were issued by PW12 Kehkansha Tyagi that ordinary
passports were surrendered for safe custody besides list of their
passport details [ExPW12/K­1], which were forwarded by her to
passport office by letter dated 5.9.2005 [ExPW12/K] and that passports
were kept in safe custody [vide forwarding letter dated 5.9.2005
ExPW12/M]. The list members is of 15 persons [Ex PW12/K1 i.e.14
persons+ leader Hargulab Singh]. How their names were finalised?. It is undisputed that there is no
written list of members was asked by ICCR from leader Hargulab Singh.
It is also not disputed that the name of PW57/technician Sukhvinder
Singh was given by PW12 Kehkansha Tyagi, which is deposed by
PW57 himself. Moreover, accused Shiv Kumar Sharma admits that it
was PW12 who asked him join the group. PW3 and PW 55 had also
said that they were joined in the group as performer/artists by Balwinder
Bawa by agreeing to pay Rs.10,000/­ for the trip as well as they would
get commendation certificates, however, they were partly paid of
Rs.5000/­ each. Although, accused Balwinder Bawa had denied that
she called them or any amount or certificates were offered to them or
any advance was paid to them (in reply to question no.175 & 176).
However, during cross examination of these star witnesses, who had
also gone to Berlin in the Group, were suggested [as case of Balwinder
Bawa] that their entire due amount was paid and nothing was left to be

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 141 of156 ]
 payable by Balwinder Bawa. PW3 Pawan replies as "I must have been
asked to join this group by Balwinder Bawa on the basis of my
professional capabilities. It is incorrect to suggest that I was paid my
complete professional charges. I had not made any complaint against
anyone for non payment of my professional charges. It is incorrect to
suggest that I had not made any complaint as my complete charges
were paid to me as were agreed." Thus, the names of PW3 and PW55
was included by Balwinder Bawa. Balwinder Bawa had gone to Shiv
Kumar Sharma immediately after coming to know from Hargulab Singh
that her name is not in the list of members of the group going abroad
and when Shiv Kumar Sharma refused to include her name in the list,
she had threatened to call the police and inform of sexual exploitation of
PW9 and PW10 at the night between 1/2.9.2005 at hotel after
performance in Zimindara Dhaba. Then Shiv Kumar Sharma had talked
on telephone, took instructions and permitted the name of son and
daughter­in­law of Balwiner Bawa in place of her name, for which she
had agreed; thus her son Saba/Sukhdeep/Satnam Singh and daughter­
in­law Sonam Gill/Gurmeet Kaur were included in the list. PW38 Tehal
Singh Kheeva also confirms that he parted training of Bhangra/dance at
the request of Balwinder Bawa. The statements of PW54 Ajeet Singh
alias Jeeta Pawar and of PW56 Jaswant Singh also suggests that it was
Hargulab Singh and Balwinder Bawa who prepared them for going
abroad and also taken money from them. PW39 and PW40 have
narrated the harassment and trauma faced them at Airport Delhi at the
hands of Balwinder Bawa for not taking PW40 in the Group at Berlin but
he was sent back from Airport. [ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 142 of156 ]
 There are other names of members namely Prabhjot Singh,
Amanpreet Singh, Jagdeep Singh and Amanjit Singh. PW18 Avtar
Singh [father of Amanpreet Singh], PW20 Shri Nazar Singh [father of
Jagdeep Singh], PW21 Harjinder Singh [father of Amanjit Singh] and
PW53 Pritam Singh [father of Prabhjot Singh] were examined about
their children, they had not completely supported the case of
prosecution. But PW53 had met Hargulab Singh and Shiv Kumar
Sharma at Zimindara Dhabha to send his son abroad. The application
forms filled in on 5.9.2005 for officials passport [Ex PW2/E to ExPW2/L
and ExPW12S] were provided by office of ICCR and PW12 Kehkashan
Tyagi also says that the same were partly filled in the office of ICCR by
Shiv Kumar Sharma and other officers of ICCR. Many personal
particulars of identity marks were also asked on telephone from
Hargulab Singh and Balwinder Bawa on 5.9.2005 gets corroboration
that event of performance at Ziminara Dhabha was over on 2.9.2005,
thereafter names were finalized till 4.9.2005 and then around 4.9.2005
Shiv Kumar Sharma got names and signatures on application forms for
official passports, application forms were already left with him by
officers of ICCR. ICCR had officially written on 5.9.2005 to the
Office/employer of Shiv Kumar Sharma about his forthcoming journey to
Berlin on 12.9.2005. It was 7.9.2005, when Shiv Kumar Sharma applied
for earned leave for period from 11.9.2005 to 23.9.2005 [to attend some
Cultural Prorgamme at Germany sponsored by Ministry of External
Affairs ], as per record own record (Ex. DW3/A colly.) get produced by
Shiv Kumar Sharma through witness DW3. There is no written or official
communication by ICCR to leader/PW4 of Group of Mehak Punjab Di

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 143 of156 ]
 about forthcoming programme of 11/12.9.2005. PW57 Sukhvinder
Singh had received information on 11.9.2005 about departure on next
day from PW12. Further, it gets corroboration that on 6.9.2005 Shiv
Kumar Sharma called Hargulab Singh that group would leave Berlin in a
week because it was Shiv Kumar Sharma having all information on
5/6.9.2005 of expected programme and departure, which nullifies his
denial of this fact in his reply (to question no.255 of his statement u/s
313 CrPC). Shiv Kumar's application for official passport is of 5.9.2005,
the surrender certificate for leaving ordinary passport to ICCR office is
also of 5.9.2005, PW12 also says that Shiv Kumar Sharma was in the
office of ICCR while filling in the application forms and Shiv Kumar
Sharma had not given any other explanation as to when he had actually
signed the application for official passport or surrendered his original
ordinary passport to ICCR, if it was other than of 5.9.2005. It is admitted
plea of accused Shiv Kumar Sharma that he was lured to go abroad at
State expenses. The defence/official witnesses DW3 and DW4 were examined
and get produced letters by accused Shiv Kumar Sharma to prove that
he was on duty on 5.9.2005 and 27.4.2005 and office hours were from
9Am to 5pm as well as there was no cross­examination of such material
witnesses by the State. On plain reading of the statements of DW3 &
DW4 alongwith letters issued by them in respect of 27.4.2005 and
5.9.2005, it is apparent from the contents of letter that registers of
attendance was not available and it was not produced. Thus, it is just
inference of presence in office because of want of record. The record of
copy earned leave application for 11.9.2005 to 23.9.2005, copy of

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 144 of156 ]
 application for availing leave on 29.3.2005 (for visiting Delhi) and on
11.5.2005 are part of record (ExPW3/A). In addition, the application
forms were partly filled in the office of ICCR [where Rakesh Kumar,
PW12 Kehkansha Tyagi, PW70 Narender were also present], the
specific writings at points Q56 to Q59; Q66­Q67; Q79 Q81;Q85 Q86;
Q101 Q102; Q109 Q110; Q119 Q120 Q151 to Q155 and Q93 [on
application forms for official passports ExPW2E to ExPW2/L and
ExPW12/S] alongwith writing on personal paid & diary [ExPW22/C and
PW22/A bearing writing at points Q­175 & Q­178] were examined by
handwriting expert/PW67 with the specimen S­60 to S­169 and S­235 to
S­242 of Shiv Kumar Sharma. PW67 has analytical assessed the
specimen and questioned writings (Qs), those at aforementioned points
in the diary, pad and on application forms were found matched with the
specimen of accused Shiv Kumar Shama. The writing (Q142, Q143) on
application (ExPW12/X) for passport for Gurmeet Kaur was found
matched with the writing of PW12 Kehkansha Tyagi. Neither
handwriting expert/PW67 nor IO/74 was cross examined about
specimens or its results or investigation on this score. Ld defence
counsel has rightly pointed out that PW2 is not witness to writing of Shiv
Kumar vis a vis he knows bit of English, thus PW2 does not fall, for the
purposes of writing, in the category of direct evidence u/ss 59/60 of the Indian Evidence Act . But the opinion/report ExPW67/B of handwriting
expert/PW67 Shri D.R. Handa is covered by sections 47 / 45 of the
Indian Evidence Act 1872. Consequently, it would not yield any benefit
to accused Shiv Kumar Sharma of either dates of 27.4.2005 or of
5.9.2004, since for want of proof of attendance register position is like

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 145 of156 ]
 oral statement of one side of absence in his office against another oral
statement of his presence in ICCR, New Delhi, the circumstances are
leaning towards his presence in the office of ICCR because of
statement of other witnesses of ICCR office, writings on applications for
official passports, surrender of his passport and certificate in lieu
thereof, seeking information on telephone from Hagulab Singh and from
Balwinder Bawa to complete the applications, which were already got
signed from the applicants on 4.9.2005. It is also manifest that if
accused met PW12 Kehkansha Tyagi at Zimindara Dhaba, being first
time, would she include Shiv Kumar Sharma in the Group by posing
confidence to the extend that formal application forms for official
passports were handed­over to get it filled or collect passports of those
persons, which were brought [partly filled­up] in the office of ICCR on
5.09.2005, where list of those 15 members were prepared. It was not all
of sudden but in continuity of earlier events. The statement of PW53,
that he was detained by CBI, if so, does not discard the case of
prosecution, particularly it is the only witness, who uttered so and the
other prosecution witnesses have not complained in their statement. 13.7 There is no independent evidence that accused Gurbej Singh
had taken any record of certificates and news­clippings, VCDs, album to
furnish it to office of ICCR after filing of application for empanelment or
around May 2005. In fact official witness of ICCR and PW4 says that it
was PW4, who had brought and furnished the record in the office of
ICCR. PW4 also says that he took commendation certificates,
newspaper clippings, VCDs to the office of ICCR. There is no
independent evidence that Gurbej Singh had also gone to the office of
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 146 of156 ]
 ICCR around 7/8.9.2005 to furnish VCDs/photographs in the office of
ICCR of performance of 1/2.9.2005 at Zimindara Dhabha vis a vis the
charge pertains to use of forged record of commendation certificates
etc., filed in support of application ExPW4/A.

14.1 In this third phase, the most relevant witnesses are PW3 Pawan
Kumar , PW55 Raji, PW57 Sukhviner Singh and PW72 Suhanshu
Pandey abroad The other particular official witnesses in India are PW12
Kehkansha Tyagi & PW15 Mahender Kumar Sehgal, when 15 members
had gone to Berlin on official passport through ICCR. Hargulab Singh's
son Randeep Singh had gone to private residence of Palvinder Singh
immediately on arrival at Berlin, then Hargulab Singh had also joined his
brother Palvinder Singh in Berlin, they had not stayed in the Guest
house. They had not performed on 14/15.9.2005 at Berlin, which is
admitted fact/allegations by Shiv Kumar [ in his reply to question
no.503]. PW3 and PW55 when did not find Sonam Gill/Gurmeet Kaur
and Saba/Satnam Singh in their room, then Shiv Kumar Sharma was
informed immediately through PW57, however, Shiv Kumar Sharma
had not arrived at guest house from the Hotel, where he was staying.
Similarly, information was also given immediately to Shiv Kumar
Sharma, when other more members of the group were not found in the
Guest room in the morning, it was also informed through PW57. They
are Satnam Singh alias Puppi Amanjit Singh, Prabhjot Singh,
Amanpreet Singh and Jagdeep Singh. However, Shiv Kumar Sharma
had lodged information on 16.9.2005 [Ex.PW72/F]. PW72 had not
noticed absence of group members in the first day of performance and
also on the next performance or as to how many persons had given
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 147 of156 ]
 performance. Total nine persons had defected, out of them Hargulab
Singh came back India later­on. On 16.9.2005 PW12 Kehkansha Tyagi
also disclosed to PW15 that there is defection of members of the Group
Mehak Punjab Di, since PW12 had that information only on 16.9.2005
and not prior to it, whereas some of them defected much prior, Shiv
Kumar Sharma had not informed earlier to anyone of officials. 14.2 Here some other aspect are also relevant to mention. Accused
Balwinder Bawa was asked (one of the question is 157) that name of
her son is Sukhdeep Singh, marriage was also got registered in proper
name (vide certificate Ex.PW1/A) then why her son furnished other
name of Satnam Singh in the application form for formal passport, her
response is that her son Sukhdeep Singh and daughter­in­law Gurmeet
Kaur had married of their choice and against the wishes of Balwinder
Bawa, she has no concern at all to them; she does not know the
reasons for mentioning wrong name despite affixing correct photograph.
In her other reply to allegations (in question no.591) she says that the
prosecution witnesses have deposed so because they could not go
abroad due to poor performances. In her reply (to question no.497) she
elucidated that she had called PW72 Sudhanshu Pandey after one
week to convince him to send back India her son. She further said that
she was angry/annoyed because Hargulab Singh had not taken her in
the group despite she sings very well. These aspects unfold many hidden facts. Accused Balwinder
Bawa was aspirant to go abroad, she could not go there and she felt
angry vis a vis when her name was not list, then on 3.9.2005 she

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 148 of156 ]
 alongwith Hargulab Singh went to see Shiv Kumar Sharma, to include
her name in the list failing which there will be police report about
episode to PW9 and PW10 and after seeking instructions, the name of
her son and daughter­in­law were included in the list (with Shiv Kumar
Sharma) instead of name of Balwinder Bawa. It was all after
performance of Mehak Punjab Di at Zimindara Dhaba. It was not all of
sudden that she form intention to go abroad but from the inception. In
order to shield herself, she said that she left Zimindara Dabha after
performance at about 7pm on 1.9.2005, she was just performing for trial
and she did not know the purpose of putting of banner Mehak Punjab Di
behind the stage on that day or so in earlier performances, she took
such pleas as defensive but her plea could not be proved. She also
said as if she has no concern with her son and daughter­in­law or they
are living separately but at the contrary PW3 was called by Sonam and
then PW3 and PW55 alongwith her mother visited Sonam, which is
house of Balwinder Bawa immediate after 2/9/2005. Thus, an after
thought plea is being taken that she has no concern with her son or
daughter­in­law. 14.3 Ld. defence counsels took strong plea about status of PW4
Hargulab Singh as of approver, who is weak kind of witness, unless his
testimony is corroborated by independent evidence vis a vis PW4 has
been habitual to obtain repeatedly passport by wrong particulars. The
detailed discussion in aforementioned paragraphs on material aspect is
based on facts in record and statement of witnesses (which are other
than the statement of PW4). PW4 in his statement on oath had also
narrated all such facts chronologically, with documentary record too.
[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 149 of156 ]
 PW4 also deposed facts which are showing his own complicit, including
the facts that name of Satnam Singh was written by Shiv Kumar as per
instruction (in place of actual name of Sukhdeep Singh in application
form for official passport). The ordinary passports and application forms
were with Shiv Kumar Sharma too, even ICCR prepared the surrender
certificate by keeping the passports in sake custody but without
bothering to see take passport of Sukhdeep Singh (as list of member
ExPW12/K1 does not mention details of passport of Sukhdeep Singh,
whose application form was filled in as Satnam Singh but citing correct
name of mother Balwinder Kaur and spouse name as Gurmeet Kaur).
Therefore, not only there exists independent material of evidence and
circumstances against accused persons and also against Hargulab
Singh in those evidence but also in the statement of PW4 against
himself and against other accused. It can also be said that the
statement of PW4 is getting corroboration from statement of other
witnesses and from the record vis a vis those record & statements are
independent in nature too. PW2 Raj Kumar has been in litigation with Shiv Kumar Sharma or
his relatives or employee of relative but majority of litigation are of after
registration of this case. Otherwise, the case does not rest on sole
statement of PW2. 14.4 By taking into consideration totality of circumstances, it is crystal
clear that PW4 Hargulab Singh wanted to send his son Randeep Singh
abroad, it is just an individual wish. However, he devised the mean of
formation of Bhangra group, on the advises he had received from Shiv

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 150 of156 ]
 Kumar Sharma, who had acquaintance with Rakesh Kumar. It is also in
evidence that Balwinder Bawa and Hargulab Singh knew each other
much prior to year 2005. The concept took place initially was further
developed with Balwinder Bawa to explore it in that direction of joining
of members in group. The application was appended with four
photographs, visiting card of Mehak Punjab Di and entry identity card of
Jallandhar Doordarshan Kendra [ExPW4/D]. Later­on, to make it appear
authenticate of cultural programme performance, as per advices
received and after getting confirmed from Shiv Kumar Sharma, two
press clippings of Manpreet Bulletin, 2 VCDs, album and copies
commendation certificates [part of Z1 to Z9] were filed in support of
application for empanelment. The originals of those commendation
certificates [ExPW4/F1 to ExPW4F6] and news­clippings [ExPW4/G
and ExPW4/H] were seized from accused Balwinder Bawa. They are
forged and created documents. Similar blank commendation certificates
[ExPW22/B to ExPW22/G] and entry identity cards of Jallandhar
Doordarshan Kender [ExpW22/H1 and ExPW22/H2] were also
recovered and seized from the house of accused Shiv Kumar Sharma.
The yellow color entry card of Jallandhar Doordarshan Kender [Ex
PW4/D, filed with application dated 27.4.2005 ExPW4/A] is similar to
yellow color entry cards of Jallandhar Doordarshan Kendra
[ExPW22/H1 and Ex.PW22/H2 seized from the house of accused on
29.3.2006]. Entry Card of Jallandhar Doordarshan Kendra [Ex.PW4/D]
was filed with application by PW4 Hargulab Singh, since he was handed
it over by accused Balwinder Bawa. The other record is also similar too. The VCDs with performance were staged under the banner of Mehak

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 151 of156 ]
 Punjab Di was not just act of PW4 Hargulab Singh but with active
involvement of Balwinder Bawa vis a vis it was being done on the
advises through Shiv Kumar Sharma as to what will serve the purpose
or not. That is why from time to time in the sequences of events, there
was aid and advise to materialize the concept. The performance at
Zimindara Dhaba was another forwarding act of this concept. Although
during the cross­examination of PW4 was confronted that Rakesh
Kumar and Shiv Kumar Sharma had not come to Zimindara Dhaba but
by numbers of statements of witnesses as well as statement of accused
persons to those circumstances, it stood proved that they had come to
that venue of Zimindara Dhaba. Balwinder Bawa wanted to go abroad,
that is why she had requested PW12 Kehkansha Tyagi on that day to
consider their group. PW9 and PW10 were also compelled to stay with
them. Later, official passports were prepared and group had gone
Berlin, Germany but out of 15 persons only 6 came back at first and 1
later­on. It was being projected that Shiv Kumar Sharma was not present
in the office of ICCR New Delhi either on 27.4.2005 or on 5.9.2005 or
on other dates or Balwinder Bawa had also not visited office of ICCR,
New Delhi nor her presence is counted by PW30 at Press Office or it
does not make out conspiracy. In fact, charge against Balwinder Bawa
is of conspiracy and forgery of documents, charge against Gurbhej
Singh is of conspiracy and knowingly use of forged documents as
genuine and charge against Shiv Kumar is of conspiracy as well as of
cheating and use of forged documents as genuine. That is why all the
phases have been discussed in detail to cull the factual position. It is

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 152 of156 ]
 crystal clear that there has been conspiracy at level based with Shiv
Kumar Sharma and inter­se with Hargulab Singh and in its
implementation a conspiracy with Balwinder Bawa with confidence of
Shiv Kumar Sharma and in the series of development to achieve it, it
was manned with Hargulab Singh and staged performance was
recorded in VCDs and in photographs, commendation certificates were
got printed and duly filled in/signed by Hargulab Singh and also filed in
by PW56 at instance of PW4 besides news clippings, which were
recovered from Balwinder Bawa but its copies were furnished in ICCR
office by Hargulab Singh. In the charter of Group members Shiv Kumar
Sharma included his own persons as members of group, even
application forms were with him, which he got signed from them, their
passports were also collected by him, those persons had defected in
Berlin. He was sent Berlin as Manager but circumstances are speaking
that he had been acting alike In­charge of all affairs from event of
Zimindara Dhaba, he could explain how he received the passport of
those persons. PW18, PW20 and PW21 have not named accused
persons qua their children but PW53 gave inconsistent statement like
he spent Rs.25,000/­ for his son Prabhjot Singh to go abroad vis a vis
no amount was asked by accused, however, he had given Rs.5000/­ to
Hargulab Singh of his own, when departure was made to Delhi, he had
also telephone call of Prabhjot Singh about performance by the
Bhangra group. The statement of PW53 is like telling partly and hiding
partly and vice­versa. This does not dilute the allegations. It is not
necessary of physical presence of all, when conspiracy is acted upon,
there are clear contribution by way of acts and documents by PW3

[C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 153 of156 ]
 Hargulab Singh, accused Shiv Kumar Sharma and accused Balwinder
Bawa. There is also consultation and approvals of things at one end
and then actions at other end, it meets the requirement of law. 14.5 These elements of conspiracy are also subsisting among PW4
Hargulab Singh (since approver), accused Shiv Kumar, accused
Balwinder and it stands proved. The role of Gurbhej Singh is proving or
inferring therefrom. 14.6 The group was registered ICCR for promotion of Indian cultural
abroad and members were to go there to perform. Many members are
non­artists but their applications were filled in as artists, some members
in group did not know Bhangra, even Randeep Singh was special­able
child, but their names were included in the Group, since the purpose
was to go abroad and then defect there, it was done too. Had it been
made known the purpose, there would have been no approval or visa
but it was done under the garb of empanel of Mehak Punjab Di. The
sinister design was from the inception, that is why 'artists' was
mentioned in applications for official passports and members of the
group had defected in Berlin. It has also caused losses to the
Government exchequer, which computed as Rs.6,79,973/­. 14.7 PW4 names accused Gurbhej Singh had accompanied him in
the office of ICCR in April 2005, it is not getting corroboration. It was
also stated by him that PW4 had again gone to ICCR office to furnish
copies of certificates etc. but Gurbhej Singh had gone there to furnish
record of performance of 1.9.2005/2.9.2005, this is also not proved
against him by other witness vis a vis charge does not pertain to that

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 154 of156 ]
 record of performance at Zimindara Dhaba. There is also no proof from
the statement of PW61 that Gurbhej Singh acted as gunman for
accused Shiv Kumar during that relevant period or otherwise. It is also
not proved that who was brother­in­law, whom he got sent abroad.
However, PW9 and PW10 deposed about picking and dropping them by
Gurbhej Singh but it is not establishing formal charges framed against
Gurbhej Singh vis a vis the pointing out memo (ExPW23/A) was
immaterial, when other record was not collected nor that place was got
identified from the witnesses. 15.1 Therefore, the evidence on record proves charges of section
120B (1) r/w sec.420, 468 and 471 r/w sec.468 IPC against accused
Shiv Kumar Sharma and Balwinder Bawa as well as substantive charge
of section 420, 471 r/w sec.468 IPC against Shiv Kumar Sharma and
charge u/s 468 IPC against Balwinder Bawa, by satisfying requirements
as detailed in paragraph no.10.2 above. However, accused Shiv Kumar Sharma & Balwinder cannot
derive any benefit that charge u/s 120B IPC was for four accused & not
exclusively for them [Shiv Kumar Sharma & Balwinder] for the reasons­
firstly, the findings being returned are not in respect of Rakesh Kumar,
secondly charge has not been proved against Gurbhej Singh and thirdly
as per spirit of sec. 221(2) CrPC (when one of offence is proved in
series of acts but offence was not charged) there is no bar to give such
findings qua two accused persons Shiv Kumar Sharma and Balwinder
Bawa on the basis of evidence on record, particularly when formal
charge u/s 120B IPC r/w sec. 420 , 468 , 471 IPC was also framed

[ C.C. No.01/2019 State Vs. Rakesh Kumar & 3 Ors. Page 155 of156 ]
 against both the accused too. Moreover, in K Prema S Rao Vs Yadla
Srinivasa Rao & others (AIR 2007 SC 11), by invoking the provisions of section 221(2) CrPC the accused was held guilty u/s 306 IPC, when
there was acquittal u/s 304B IPC but conviction u/s 498A IPC. Hargulab
has been found equally involved in the episodes, however, he was
given pardon, that is why he appeared as witness for State. Thus, both Shiv Kumar Sharma and Balwinder Bawa are held
guilty for proof of charge of section 120B (1) r/w sec.420, 468 and 471
r/w sec.468 IPC besides for substantive charge of sections 420, 471 r/w sec.468 IPC against Shiv Kumar Sharma and charge u/s 468 IPC
against Balwinder Bawa. 15.2 Accused Gurbhej Singh is acquitted of charges framed against
him for want of proof by evidence. Digitally signed
 by INDERJEET
 INDERJEET SINGH
This judgment concludes. SINGH Date: