Date : 21-12-2018

 (Ujjal Bhuyan, J.)
 Heard Mr. B. K. Mahajan, learned counsel for the appellants and Mr. H. Sharma,
learned Addl. Public Prosecutor, Assam. 2. The two appeals have been preferred against the judgment and order dated
13.11.2007 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge (FTC), Bongaigaon in
Sessions Case No.25(d)/2001 convicting the accused persons under Sections
120(B) / 460 / 302 / 34 IPC and sentencing them to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and
fine of Rs.5000 each with a default clause for the offence under Section 460IPC; for the
offence under Sections 120(B) / 302 IPC imprisonment for life and fine of Rs.5000 with a
default stipulation; and for the conviction under Sections 302 / 34 IPC, they were sentenced
imprisonment for life and to pay fine of Rs.5000 with a default clause. It was ordered that
sentences would run consecutively in respect of convict Shri Ajay Chakraborty and
concurrently for the other convicts, namely, Shri Kartik Chakraborty, Jabed Ali and Ali
Akbar. 3. In Criminal Appeal No.7/2008, Kartik Chakraborty, Jabed Ali and Ali Akbar are
the three appellants whereas Ajay Chakraborty is the sole appellant in Criminal Appeal
No.8/2008. 4. Smt. Gita Das , PW2, lodged one first information on 10.10.1999 before the
 Page No.# 3/26

Officer-in-Charge, Dangtola Police Outpost under Dhaligaon Police Station stating that on
09.10.1999, her brother-in-law Ajay Chakraborty left his wife, i.e., her sister Anita
Chakraborty at her residence saying that he would go to Cooch Bihar to bring gold
jewelry. As he did not return back that night, informant along with her sister and minor
daughter went to sleep on the same bed around 9.30/10 pm after having their meal. Her
husband Shri Prabir Das went to the house of Ajay Chakraborty to guard the same.
Around midnight, one miscreant entered into her house by digging a hole and opened the
door. Informant woke up after hearing noise and in view of the light filtering into the room
from outside. On waking up, she saw a person inside the room. She woke up her sister by
raising hue and cry. About that time, another person had entered into the room and
focused a torchlight at them. The person who had entered through the door dealt repeated
blows with sharp dagger like weapon on Anita Chakraborty from outside the mosquito
net. Then he dragged her out and on to the floor whereafter he again inflicted deadly
blows with the weapon killing Anita on the spot. Thereafter, both the persons left the room
and went away. Before leaving, they threatened the informant in Bengali language not to
make noise but they did not cause any injury to her. Both the assailants had their faces
covered with clothes for which informant could not identify them. 5. On the basis of the first information, G.D. Entry was made whereafter it was
forwarded to the Officer-in-Charge, Dhaligaon Police Station where it was registered as
Dhaligaon Police Station Case No.57/1999 under Sections 460 / 302 IPC. 6. On completion of investigation, police submitted charge-sheet against the four
appellants who were arrayed as accused. Thereafter, charges were framed against the
accused under Sections 120B , 460 and 302 / 34 IPC. Appellants pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried. It may be mentioned that one of the accused persons, namely, Kalidas
Mahanta @ Kuddus Ali had evaded investigation and was accordingly declared as
absconder. The case was 'filed' against him. 7. In the course of the trial, prosecution examined as many as 27 witnesses and
exhibited a number of documents. Witnesses were cross-examined by the defence. After
closure of evidence of the prosecution witnesses, statements of the accused persons were
 Page No.# 4/26

recorded under Section 313 Cr.PC. The accused persons also tendered evidence as defence
witnesses. After hearing the matter, learned Additional Sessions Judge (FTC), Bongaigaon
vide judgment and order dated 13.11.2017 convicted all the accused as above. 8. Hence, the two appeals. 9. During the pendency of the appeals, certain developments had taken place and on a
question of law, the two appeals were referred to a larger Bench. We will deal with that
aspect of the matter at a later stage of the judgment. But for the moment, it would be
apposite to advert to the evidence tendered by the witnesses. 10. PW24 is the Dr. Prashanta Kumar Das who was serving as Senior Medical and
Health Officer, Goalpara Civil Hospital at the relevant point of time. On 11.10.1999, he
had performed post-mortem examination on the dead body of Anita on police requisition.
He found the following injuries on the person of Anita:- 3. Penetrating injury over right breast, 2 in numbers, 1"x1" deep. 4. Penetrating injury over left wrist, 2 in numbers, 2"x2" and 1"x1". 5. Penetrating injury over left forearm near elbow, 1"x1". 6. Stab injury over right forearm, 1"x1"x1" and 2"x1"x1". 7. Stab injury over right knee, 1"x1". 10.1. On examination of thorax, the following injuries were noticed:- 2. Penetrating injury over left scapula 2"x1"x2.". 3. Fracture of the 7th, 8th and 9th ribs on the left side of the chest. Others normal". 10.2. After examination of abdomen, PW24 recorded the following injuries:- The injuries were so severe and penetrating that small intestine was seen coming out from
below the stomach. From the number of injuries inflicted on the body of the deceased, it is
evident that she was assaulted so severely to ensure that there was no possibility of her
surviving the brutal attack. Therefore, from the evidence of the doctor, it is quite clear that
death of Anita was homicidal in nature but the question is who had caused the injuries on
the person of the deceased? Who had murdered Anita? Was it a pre-planned murder?
What could be the motive to kill a young married woman in her early twenties? 12. To search for the answers to the above questions, let us briefly refer to and analyse
the evidence of the relevant witnesses. 13. PW2 Smt. Gita Das is the informant. She stated that deceased Anita was her
younger sister. Accused Ajay Chakraborty was the husband of Anita. On 09.10.1999,
 Page No.# 6/26

accused Ajay Chakraborty went to Cooch Bihar keeping Anita in her house. On the night
of 09.10.1999, she along with her sister Anita and her daughter were sleeping in her house
on the same bed. Her husband Prabir Das was sleeping in the house of Ajay Chakraborty
to guard the same. House of Ajay Chakraborty was situated at a little distance away from
her house. Around midnight, she woke up on hearing the sound of the door of her house
opening and saw light inside the house. She found a man present inside the house. She and
her sister started screaming. Then a torchlight was focused at her face. She saw another
man inside the house. They threatened them to keep quiet. Faces of the two persons inside
the room were covered with clothes. The two persons assaulted Anita on the bed and
dragged her to the floor. They departed after repeatedly assaulting Anita. PW2 went out of
the house through the door taking her daughter along and took shelter in the residence of
her aunt which was near their house. Her aunt Manju Rani Vaidya, cousin Manoranjan
Vaidya and a few other persons came to the house. PW2 returned a bit later. She saw her
sister Anita lying dead on the floor of the house in a pool of blood. She also saw a hole on
the southern side of her house. She stated that at about 10 am of the following day, i.e., on
10.10.2008, she wrote the ejahar, Ext.2. 13.1. After conducting postmortem examination body was handed over whereafter the
body was cremated. 13.2. On 27.10.1999, police called her to the Police Station where she saw the four
accused appellants along with Kalidas. She saw a Magistrate interrogating the accused
persons in the Police Station. She could gather that accused Kartik had asked accused
Jabed to engage a person to kill Anita. Jabed engaged Kalidas @ Kuddus Ali to commit
the murder. Accused Ajay confessed that he had sealed the deal with Kalidas @ Kuddus
Ali for an amount of Rs.8000. The murder was carried out pursuant to such conspiracy.
Ali Akbar had confessed before the Magistrate that they had murdered Anita. Ali Akbar
and Kalidas had also promised the Magistrate that they would handover the khukri and
dagger. 13.3. In her cross-examination, she admitted that she saw the accused persons inside
Dangtola Police Outpost being handcuffed. The Magistrate was sitting inside the Police
 Page No.# 7/26

Station in a chair. Magistrate told her, her father and her husband that he would
interrogate the accused persons and asked them to listen. He interrogated the accused
persons while they were handcuffed and were inside the lockup. She, her husband and her
father were outside the Police Outpost when the Magistrate recorded statements of the
accused persons. She further stated that she could not identify the assailants inside her
house. She had also not seen what weapon was used by the two persons while assaulting
Anita. They had assaulted Anita from above the mosquito net which was torn. 14. Shri Prabir Das, husband of the informant, deposed as PW3. He stated that Ajay
Chakraborty and his sister-in-law Anita used to reside in a rented house near his residence.
Both of them had married in a temple about two years prior to the incident. Ajay did not
have good terms with his father-in- law but used to visit PW3. He was serving in the
Railways Whenever Ajay used to go outside, he kept Anita in the house of PW3 to be with
her sister, PW2. On such occasions, PW3 used to guard the house of Ajay Chakraborty. 14.1. On 09.10.1999, he had liquor with accused Kartik whereafter he went to sleep. At
about 12.30 am somebody called him from outside saying that there was a robbery in his
house; PW3 guessed the person to be Kartik. 14.2. When he rushed to his house, he found Anita lying dead on the floor; along with
the neighbours, he found Kartik in his house. He also noticed a hole being dug in his
house through which a man could enter. But he noticed that no valuables were taken away
from the house; even the ornaments worn by Anita were found intact on her body. 14.3 Accused Ajay came in the morning. Police prepared the inquest report Ext.1 and
seized one bloodstained mosquito net, one blood stained quilt, 2 blood stained pillow
covers and one blood stained bed sheet from his house as per seizure list Ext.3. 14.4. According to PW3, there was gradual deterioration in the relationship between Ajay
and Anita. Kartik was the cousin of Ajay. After Ajay had eloped with Anita, some youths
of the neighbourhood had assaulted Kartik. Though Ajay demanded Rs.2000 from his
father-in-law for the treatment of Kartik father-in-law did not oblige. 14.5. In his cross-examination he stated that Kartik had consumed liquor with him in the
 Page No.# 8/26

evening and after he had left, PW3 had fallen asleep. Later on, Kartik called him from
outside the house of Ajay where he was sleeping saying that dacoits had entered his house.
When he went to his house, he found about 50/100 persons in his house including about
7/8 police personnel. 15. PW5 Shri Ranjit Mandal was the elder brother of deceased Anita. He stated that
accused Kartik was the cousin of accused Ajay Chakraborty. A video film was made
relating to the murder wherein accused persons narrated how they had murdered Anita.
Accused Ajay stated that an amount of Rs. 8000 was paid to accused Ali Akbar and
Kalidas to murder Anita. At the time of the incident, accused Ajay had gone to Cooch
Behar. 16. Father of the deceased Kalipada Mandal deposed as PW7. He stated that in
August, 1997, accused Ajay had eloped with his daughter Anita and thereafter married
her. After marriage, he took a house on rent at Daulaguri, New Bongaigaon from where he
shifted to a rented house at Nilibari, Bongaigaon. Ajay and Anita used to visit the house
of his elder daughter Gita PW2 intermittently but did not visit him. 16.1. PW7 Kalipada Mandal was a Railway employee and in the morning of 10.10.1999
he had come back from Delhi when he came to know from his wife that his daughter
Anita was murdered. He had rushed to Gita's house where he saw the dead body of his
daughter Anita lying on the floor of the bedroom. He saw cut injuries caused by sharp
weapons in several parts of Anita's dead body. 16.2. In his cross-examination, he stated that his son Ranjit had a scuffle with Kartik
because of which Kartik had to be taken to hospital. Accused Ajay had demanded Rs.2000
from him as expenses for the treatment of Kartik but PW7 declined to pay any money. 17. Both PW12 Pranab Sarkar and PW13 Pradip Kumar Das had stated that they had
seen a Magistrate in the Dangtol Police outpost recording statements of the accused
persons. The accused persons had confessed before the Magistrate as to how they had
committed the offence. The Magistrate and police took the accused to the place of
occurrence. Page No.# 9/26 18. PW16 Manoranjan Basumatary was a seizure witness. He stated that police had
asked him to be a witness in the case. Police had also told him that the murder weapon
was kept hidden in a jungle nearby his house. Thereafter the police officer recovered a
'khukri', a long dagger, one underwear and a monkey cap from the jungle as pointed out by
accused Kalidas whereafter those were seized vide seizure list Ext.5 where he put his
signature. He stated that he had not seen accused Kalidas in the Court. 19. Shri Bapi Dey deposed as PW20. He stated that while he was in his shop, a police
man came and took him to the pond near his house. There he saw two police officers with
accused Akbar and Kalidas on the bank of the pond. One of the police officers showed
him one 'khukri', one cap and one vest kept on the bank of the pond which were seized.
PW20 was told that the materials were recovered from the pond and the police officer
asked him to put his signature in the seizure list whereafter he put his signature. 19.1. In his cross-examination PW20 stated that he did not see who had brought the
seized materials from the pond. 20. PW21 Bidhan Mandal stated that when he had gone to the police station he had
heard accused Ali Akbar and Kalidas confessing before the Sub-Inspector that they would
produce some materials in connection with the murder. The Sub-Inspector took accused
Ali Akbar and Kalidas with him to the nearby pond from where Ali Akbar produced a
vest, one monkey cap and a 'khukri'. Accused Ali Akbar took the police to his house where
he produced one torch and a sari which were seized. Later on, accused Kalidas produced
one 'khukri' and a dagger from the jungle of Nilibari which were also seized. 20.1. In his cross-examination, he stated that the Sub-Inspector had taken accused Ali
Akbar and Kalidas to the pond while being tied. Accused Ali Akbar got into the pond
while being tied and produced one 'khukri, one vest and a monkey cap from the pond
which were seized. The police officer also recovered one torch and a sari from the house of
accused Ali Akbar and those were seized. 21. Miftabuddin Ahmed deposed as PW25. He stated that at the relevant point of time,
he was serving as Extra-Assistant Commissioner-cum-Executive Magistrate at
 Page No.# 10/26

Bongaigaon. Additional District Magistrate Shri TM Sharma had deputed him to go with
the police to recreate the crime scene in connection with Dhaligaon PS Case No.57/1999.
He stated that he had gone to the place of occurrence along with police personnel. He
interrogated the two accused persons Ali Akbar and Kalidas after going to Gita Das's
house. They had narrated to him the entire story as to how they had committed the
murder. He got their statements recorded (videographed) through a cameraman vide
material Exhibit 6. At that time the two accused persons were in police custody under
arrest. The seized weapons were in the hands of the two accused persons. He had gone to
the police station as a neutral person and not as an Investigating Officer. When he had
gone to the place of occurrence police personnel were with him along with the two
accused persons. The accused persons had confessed before him and the police personnel
that they had hatched a conspiracy in the shop of Kartik Chakraborty to murder Anita. As
per the conspiracy Ajay had gone to Cooch Behar on the date of the incident keeping his
wife Anita in the house of her sister Gita PW2. In the night accused Ali Akbar and
Kalidas had entered into the house of Gita Das and murdered Anita as was planned
earlier. The next day husband Ajay Chakraborty came back from Cooch Behar pretending
to be unaware of the incident. Accused Ajay had paid Rs.8000 to Ali Akbar and Kalidas. 21.1. In his cross-examination, PW25 stated that police did not record his statement and
that he was deposing in the court for the first time from his memory. 21.2. On further cross-examination he stated that material Exhibit 6 was a video cassette
in which accused persons recreated the scene of crime. Accused Kalidas confessed his guilt
and narrated how the murder was committed and that they were engaged as hired killers
by accused Ajay who made the payment through accused Kartik Chakraborty. He further
stated that he had submitted a report to the Addl. Deputy Commissioner. 22. PW27 was Shri Jatindra Nath Saikia who was the Investigating Officer of the case.
On 10.10.1999, at about 1.15 am, he got a telephonic information from an unknown
person that a dacoity was going on at village Nilibari but the person who made the
telephone call did not disclose his identity. He went to the village immediately and after
crossing the Railway line, he came across two persons one of whom being Kartik
 Page No.# 11/26

Chakraborty. They told him that they were from village Nilibari and were proceeding to
the hospital. However, Kartik Chakraborty took him to the place of occurrence. After
deputing police force and keeping the dead body at the place of occurrence, he left the
place. He returned back in the morning and carried out inquest on the dead body as per
Ext.1 inquest report and thereafter made certain seizures. On 10.10.1999, he received FIR
from PW2 Gita Das and made GD Entry No.205 whereafter he forwarded the case to the
Dhaligaon Police Station. 22.1. He stated that accused Ajay and Kartik were brought to the Police Station and on
being interrogated, they confessed that they had engaged Jabed Ali, Ali Akbar and Kalidas
to murder Anita for Rs.8000. On such confession, Jabed Ali, Ali Akbar and Kalidas were
arrested. 22.2. Ali Akbar showed the location where he had concealed the 'khukri' which he had
used to commit the murder of Anita Chakraborty. The other accused Kalidas @ Kuddus
Ali had led him to the paddy field where he had concealed another 'khukri' and dagger
which were used for committing the murder. All the weapons were seized. 22.3. PW27 stated that he had made a prayer before the District Magistrate to depute one
Magistrate at the time of investigation. He had also made a prayer for video recording of
the entire episode, which was allowed. Executive Magistrate Miftabuddin Ahmed, PW25
was deputed for the said purpose. Ext.6 was the video cassette. Since the accused had
confessed their guilt, they were forwarded to the Court of Sub-Divisional Judicial
Magistrate (Sadar), Bongaigaon where their confessional statements under Section 164 Cr.PC were recorded. He stated that on completion of investigation and getting sufficient
materials against the accused he had submitted charge-sheet against the accused persons
and Kalidas. 22.4. In his cross-examination, he stated that the motive of the crime was that there was
bitterness between husband and wife though it was a case of love marriage. There was no
adjustment with the family members of Ajay for which they had to live separately in a
rented house. They had no issues; in fact there was a miscarriage at an earlier point of
 Page No.# 12/26

time. When accused Ajay discussed with his cousin brother Kartik and sought his advice,
Kartik advised him to go for divorce but Ajay did not agree. He was of the view that it was
better to kill Anita by engaging hired killer. According to him this was the motive for
killing Anita Chakraborty. 22.5. On further cross-examination, he admitted that prior to lodging of FIR on
10.10.2009, telephonic information was received from some unknown person at 1.15 am
of the same day whereafter he proceeded to the place of occurrence. It is evident that no
GD Entry was made by PW27 on the telephonic information which he received. He
further admitted that in the course of the investigation as recorded in the case diary
relationship between deceased Anita Chakraborty and accused Ajay Chakraborty was not
so strained that accused Ajay Chakraborty would take the decision to kill his wife by
engaging hired killers. He also stated that the accused persons had confessed to
committing the crime whereafter their confessional statements were recorded under
Section 164 Cr.PC. 22.6. PW27 further stated that he had requested the District Magistrate, Bongaigaon to
depute one Executive Magistrate for assisting the investigation as it would be better if an
Executive Magistrate was present at the time of the accused taking the police party to the
place of occurrence and narrating as to how they committed the offence. He also stated
that there was video recording of the entire incident by re-enacting the crime scene. The
video recording and leading to the discovery was at the time of police custody of the
accused persons. He admitted that the witnesses whom he had examined under Section
161 Cr.PC did not disclose that there was strained relationship between deceased Anita
chakraborty and her husband accused Ajay Chakraborty prior to the occurrence. 23. Pausing here for a moment, we find from the evidence tendered so far that
assistance of an Executive Magistrate was sought for by the police and the Executive
Magistrate PW25 was present in the police station when the accused persons were
interrogated by the police while they were in police custody. From the evidence of PW25,
it has also come on record that he was instrumental in re-enacting the crime scene which
was videographed. Page No.# 13/26 24. Section 26 of the Evidence Act says that no confession made by any person whilst
he is in the custody of a police officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a
Magistrate, shall be proved as against such person. In State of Assam Vs. Anupam Das ,
2007 (3) GLT 697 a Division Bench of this Court held that the expression 'Magistrate'
appearing in Section 26 of the Evidence Act, 1872 would mean a Judicial Magistrate and
not an Executive Magistrate. 25. When the present two appeals were heard on a previous occasion a Division Bench
of this Court considered the decision in Anupam Das (supra) and observed that there was
some confusion in the observations made in Anupam Das (supra) and made a reference to
a larger Bench to examine and decide the following question of law:- 26. The above question was answered by a three Judge Bench of this Court vide the
judgment and order dated 26.10.2017 by holding that the view expressed by the Division
Bench in Anupam Das (supra) lays down the correct legal position. The reference was
answered by the larger Bench by holding that the expression 'Magistrate' appearing in Section 26 of the Evidence Act would mean only a Judicial Magistrate and not an
Executive Magistrate. Before adverting to the discussions made by the larger Bench, it
would be apposite to refer to the decision in Anupam Das (supra), relevant portion of
which is extracted hereunder:- Therefore, necessarily we need to examine the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure . 23. Section 3 of the CrPC provides for rule of construction of references. Sub-Section (1) of Section 3 stipulates as to how the expression "Magistrate" shall be construed whenever reference is made under
the Code, without any qualifying words. Sub-Sections (2) and (3) are not relevant for our purpose.
Sub-section (4), which is relevant for the present purpose reads as follows: The scheme of Sub- section 4 will be examined slightly later in this judgment. 24. Section 6 of the Cr.PC contemplates the establishment of various kinds of criminal courts. They
are--(i) Courts of Session; (ii) Judicial Magistrate of the first class and, in any metropolitan area,
Metropolitan Magistrate; (iii) Judicial Magistrate of the second class; and (iv) Executive Magistrates.
Therefore, Section 6 draws a clear distinction between Judicial Magistrates and the Executive
Magistrates. The powers of the Judicial Magistrates and the Executive Magistrates are expressly dealt
with under various provisions of the Cr.PC Sections 12 to 19 deal with the various categories of
Judicial Magistrates referred to under Section 6 . Section 20 deals with the Executive Magistrates.
Relevant to the context of this case is Section 20(1) which reads as follows: 25. Section 21 of the Cr.PC empowers the State Government to appoint Special Executive
Magistrates; the details of which are not necessary in the present case. Section 22 of the Cr.PC deals
with the local jurisdiction of the Executive Magistrates. Section 23 of the Cr.PC deals with the
hierarchy of the Executive Magistrates and the limits and powers of the various Executive
Magistrates. Wherever the CrPC confers powers on the Executive Magistrates, the provisions of the
Code are specific, for example, under Sections 107 , 108 , 109 and 110 the legislature expressly employed
the expression "Executive Magistrate". We do not propose to make an exhaustive survey of the
provisions of the Code for the present purpose. The above provisions are noted only for understanding
the scheme of the Code with regard to the powers, functions and limitations of the Judicial and
Executive Magistrates. 26. It is in the context of such separation of powers among the two categories of Magistrates Section
3(1) stipulates that in the Code of Criminal Procedure any reference, without any qualifying words, to
a Magistrate shall be construed a Judicial Magistrate which term includes a Judicial Magistrate in
contra-distinction to an Executive Magistrate. The Parliament was also conscious of the fact that
under various enactments made by the Parliament, powers are required to be exercised by the
Magistrates without specifying whether such powers are to be exercised by Judicial or Executive
Magistrates in a given situation. The Parliament, therefore, thought it fit to make a declaration under
Sub-Section (4) of Section 3 that whenever such a question arises (in the context of any law made by
the Parliament other than the Code of Criminal Procedure whether such a reference is to a Judicial
Magistrate or the Executive Magistrate) depending upon the nature of the power that is to be exercised
such reference is to be construed to be either to a Judicial or an Executive Magistrate. From the scheme
of Sub-Section (4) it appears that where the powers are purely administrative in nature such powers
are required to be exercised by an Executive Magistrate. Whereas, where the power to be exercised is
such that it involves appreciation of evidence or the formulation of a decision which exposes any
person to any punishment, penalty or detention etc then such functions are required to be exercised by
the Judicial Magistrates. 27. In the light of the above we are of the opinion that the expression "Magistrate" occurring under Section 26 of the Indian Evidence Act can only mean a Judicial Magistrate as the functions of a
Magistrate recording a confession of a person in police custody is likely to expose the person making
the confession to a punishment. This conclusion of ours gains further support from the very scheme of
the provisions of Sections 25 to 27 of the Evidence Act. Section 25 of the Evidence Act makes a
declaration in no uncertain terms that a confession made to a police officer shall not be proved against
the accused. The rationale behind this declaration is too well settled by a catena of decisions to the
 Page No.# 16/26

effect that in the absence of such provisions the police are likely to extract confession from the accused
by unwholesome methods. Section 26 of the Act is a great distinction to Section 25 . While Section 25 prohibits the proof of a confession made to a police officer, Section 26 prohibits the proof of a
confession made to any person while the accused is in the custody of police. Obviously, the provision is
made in order to prevent the police from extracting confession from the accused while he is under
custody and ingeniously circumventing the prohibition of law contained under Section 25 by making
it appear that the confession was not in fact made to a police officer but somebody else. The scheme of
the provisions of Sections 25 to 27 was examined by the Supreme Court in (1994) 2 SCC 467: Bheru
Singh v. State of Rajasthan wherein at para 16 the Supreme Court held: 28. The Legislature was obviously of the view that any kind of confession by an accused
while he is under the custody of police is not to be used as evidence against the accused at the
time of the trial of any offence of which the accused is charged. A principle based on the
experience of the lawmakers and the history of mankind. However, the Legislature recognized
an exception to the rule contained under Sec 26, i. e. a confession made by an accused, who is
 Page No.# 17/26

 in the custody of the police, to some person other than a police officer, if such a confession is
 made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate. The only reason we can imagine is that
 having regard to the separation of powers between the Executive and the Judiciary and the
 requirement, belief and expectation that the Judiciary functions absolutely independent and
 uninfluenced by the authority of the Executives and, therefore, the presence of a Judicial
 Magistrate eliminates the possibility of confession being extracted from the accused by a police
 officer by methods which are not permissible in law. The presence of an independent
 Magistrate by itself is an assurance against the extraction of confession by legally
 impermissible methods. Even if any such impermissible influences are exercised on the
 accused before producing the accused before the Magistrate for recording the confession the
 Legislature expected that the accused would have the advantage to complain to the Magistrate
 that he was being compelled to make a confession and on such a complaint the Magistrate is
 expected to protect the accused from the tyranny of police. A very sacred duty cast on the
 Magistrates, which must always be kept in mind by the Judicial Magistrates who are required
 to record or to be present at the time of recording the confessional statement by an accused
 while he was in the custody of the police. In the final analysis, any kind of compelled
 testimony by an accused person would be squarely violative of Article 20 Sub Article 3 of the
 Constitution. It is precisely for the above mentioned reasons the Parliament expressly
 stipulated certain duties u/s 164 (2) Cr.PC on the Judicial Magistrate recording statement u/s
 164 Cr.PC. It would be strange logic that while a statement recorded by a Judicial Magistrate
 u/s 164 Cr.PC would be vitiated for non-compliance of the conditions stipulated u/s 164 (2) and (4) of the Cr.PC and cannot, therefore, be used against the maker of the statement, but
 the Magistrate contemplated u/s 26 of the Evidence Act need not even be a Judicial
 Magistrate and, therefore, is under no obligation to comply with the requirements of Sec 164
 (2) and (4) of the Cr.PC , but the confession recorded by such a Magistrate can be proved
 against the accused for establishing his guilt. 29. From the foregoing discussion we have no alternative but to reach an irresistible
 conclusion that the expression "Magistrate" occurring in Section 26 of the Evidence Act can
 only mean a Judicial Magistrate but not an Executive Magistrate." 27. Larger Bench examined the evolution of the Code of Criminal Procedure and its
impact on the Evidence Act, 1872 . Thereafter the larger Bench held as under:- 26. Section 26 appears in the Evidence Act immediately after Section 25 . Section 25 is
 specific. It says that no confession made to a police officer shall be proved as against a person
 accused of any offence. Section 26 appears to be in continuation of Section 25 with an
 exception carved out, the exception being that confession made by a person while in the custody
 of a police officer may be proved against him if it is made in the immediate presence of a
 Magistrate. Therefore, a conjoint reading of Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act would go to
 show that no confession made by a person to a police officer while in custody shall be proved
 against him unless it is made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate. We have already
 discussed that when this provision was initially provided in the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 1861 and thereafter incorporated in the Evidence Act, 1872 , the concept of separation of
 powers between the executive and the judiciary was either non-existent or was in a nebulous
 state. Therefore, it is quite but natural that the reference in Section 26 of the Evidence Act is
 only to a Magistrate. 27. Now, we may look at the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, which was enacted 23 years
 after adoption of the Constitution and by which time separation of judicial powers from the
 executive was achieved in the country barring a few hill states or some other tribal areas. In
 this context, Section 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 clearly mentions that any
 reference in the said Code to a Magistrate without any qualifying words would mean a Judicial
 Magistrate in relation to an area outside a metropolitan area or to a Metropolitan Magistrate
 in relation to a metropolitan area. 28. Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 provides for recording of
 confession and statement by a Metropolitan Magistrate or Judicial Magistrate, as the case may
 be, subject to compliance of the conditions mentioned therein. As per proviso to Sub-Section (1)
 of Section 164 , no confession shall be recorded by a police officer on whom any power of a
 Magistrate has been conferred under any law for the time-being in force. Before recording such
 confessional statement, Judicial Magistrate has to ensure that the person making such
 statement is completely free of police influence or there is no fear of any duress or coercion in
 the making of such a confession. Moreover, as per Sub-Section (3), if at any time before the
 confession is recorded, the person appearing before the Magistrate states that he is not willing
 to make the confession, the Magistrate shall not authorize the detention of such person in police
 custody. Therefore, if we look at the scheme of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, it is
 evident that it is only when a confession or a statement is made by a person before a Judicial
 Magistrate or Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, that the same would have
 evidentiary value. It is in this context that we have to examine whether the expression
 "Magistrate" appearing in Section 26 of the Evidence Act would mean a Judicial Magistrate or
 Executive Magistrate." 28. The larger Bench extensively referred to the decision in Anupam Das (supra) and
observed that the reference made was really not necessary. The larger Bench concluded by
holding as under:- 29. Therefore, from the above it is evident that the confessions made by the accused
persons before the police while in police custody were made in presence of an Executive
Magistrate. Therefore such confessions do not have any legal sanctity and cannot have any
evidentiary value. 30. Proceeding further with the evidence, we find that the accused persons had made
confessional statements which were recorded under Section 164 Cr.PC vide Exhibits 10,
11, 12, 13 and 14. In Ext.10 accused Kartik Chakraborty made the confessional statement.
As per the confessional statement his cousin brother Ajay told him that his wife had illicit
relationship with other person and therefore she should be murdered. He had asked Kartik
to arrange someone to murder her. Though he counseled his cousin brother against such a
course of action, on his repeated insistence, he arranged two hired killers Ali Akbar and
Kalidas for committing the murder on payment of Rs.8000. Ali Akbar and Kalidas
thereafter murdered Anita Chakraborty. 31. Similar confessional statements were recorded of the other accused persons. The
confessional statements were recorded by PW26 Shri Manabendra Uzir who was the Sub-
Divisional Judicial Magistrate (Sadar) at Bongaigaon. Before recording the confessional
statement, PW26 stated that he was satisfied that there was no police in the Court or
nearby except constable Santosh Kumar Dev who was not concerned with the
investigation of the case or with the arrest or production of the accused. 32. In his evidence, PW26 stated that on 29.10.1999 he was entrusted by the Chief
Judicial Magistrate to record the confessional statements of accused Ajay Chakraborty
and Kartik Chakraborty who were produced before him for recording their confessional
statements at 11 am. For reflection he kept the two accused persons in his office chamber
under care of the office peon and recorded their statements at 3 pm. Similarly the other
 Page No.# 22/26

three accused persons were produced before him on 30.10.1999 at 11 am whereafter they
were kept in his official chamber for reflection. PW26 told accused Kartik Chakraborty as
well as the other accused persons that he was not a police officer but a Magistrate; that
they were not bound to confess their guilt but if they made the confession, it would go
against them as evidence; that they were not bound to make any statement which was
tutored by any other person. According to PW26, the accused persons confessed on their
own and he was satisfied that such action was voluntary. The confessional statements were
recorded at 3 pm.

32.1. In his cross-examination he admitted that as was the practice there was a police
constable who was deputed to the Court of Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate i.e., his
Court. He admitted that no specific question was put to the accused persons as to why
they desired to confess their guilt. He further admitted that he did not tell the accused
persons that they would not be sent to the police custody again if they did not confess their
guilt. The accused persons were brought and produced before him by police. He also
admitted that after production of the accused persons before him he did not send them to
judicial custody for reflection. He further admitted that while he was recording the
confessional statement of one accused, the other accused was not in the room but could
not say where the other accused was at that point of time. 33. In their examination under Section 313 Cr.PC., the accused persons denied
committing any offence and stated that they were falsely implicated. They further stated
that they did not confess their guilt voluntarily. Police had tortured them and had
threatened to shoot them if they did not confess their guilt. It is because of police torture
that they made the confession. 34. Each of the appellants deposed as defence witnesses. They stated that they had
made their confessional statements because they were tortured by police personnel. They
were warned by the police that if they did not make confessional statement they would be
subjected to severe torture. DW1 Ajay Chakraborty stated that after he was released on
bail, he had filed one petition dated 06.07.2001 before the Additional District and Sessions
Judge (Ad hoc), Bongaigaon stating that the confessional statement given by him was not
 Page No.# 23/26

voluntary; rather it was made under duress. Even in his cross-examination, he maintained
that he had not made his confessional statement voluntarily. 35. Section 164 Cr.PC deals with recording of confessions and statements. Sub-Section
(1) says that any Metropolitan Magistrate or Judicial Magistrate, whether he has
jurisdiction in the case nor not, may record a confession made to him in the course of an
investigation or any time afterwards but before commencement of trial. As per proviso to
Sub-Section (1), no confession shall be recorded by a police officer on whom any power of
a Magistrate has been conferred under any law for the time being in force. As per Sub-
Section (2), the Magistrate shall before recording any such confession explain to the person
making it that he is not bound to make a confession and that if he does so, it may be used
as evidence against him. Further, the Magistrate shall not record any such confession
unless upon questioning the person making it he has reason to believe that it is being made
voluntarily. Sub-Section (3) is relevant. It says that if at any time before the confession is
recorded the person appearing before the Magistrate states that he is not willing to make
the confession, the Magistrate shall not authorize the detention of such person in police
custody. Sub-Section (4) provides that the confession shall be recorded in the manner
provided in Section 281 and shall be signed by the person making the confession. The
Magistrate shall make a memorandum at the foot of such record in the format mentioned
therein. 36. From a careful perusal of Exts. 10 to 14 as well as the evidence of PW26, it is
evident that the confessional statements were not recorded in a proper manner. A police
man was very much present in the Court of PW26 when the confessional statements were
recorded. PW26 did not tell the accused persons that even if they do not confess they
would not be sent back to the police custody. This is very important. Confessional
statements were recorded on 29.10.1999 and 30.10.1999 respectively. The accused persons
were in police custody prior to this for about 5 days. That the interrogation of the accused
persons in police custody was intense can be easily made out by the fact that PW25 the
Executive Magistrate had joined the police in investigating the case and had reenacted the
crime scene through the accused persons which was videographed. The fear of the police
 Page No.# 24/26

investigation clearly loomed large over the accused persons when their confessional
statements were recorded by PW26. Such confessional statements were however retracted
by the accused persons both in their examination under Section 313 Cr.PC as well as in
their deposition as defence witnesses; rather even prior to that before commencement of
trial. They had made applications before the Additional District and Sessions Judge (Ad
hoc), Bongaigaon after being released on bail that their confessional statements were not
voluntary but were made under duress. 37. There is another aspect to this. A confession is made by a person when he suffers
from an acute sense of guilt for committing a wrong. There is remorseness in him. As a
kind of atonement, he therefore comes forward to tell the truth. 'Desire' or intention of all
the accused persons who were in police custody to confess at the same time was quite
unusual. This aspect should have been probed further by PW26. Further the confessions
could have been recorded maintaining adequate spacing in between each of the
confessions. During this period the accused could have been sent to judicial custody. In our
considered opinion, failure to do so has impeached the credibility of the confessions. 38. That apart, the spin sought to be given in Exhibit 10 confessional statement of
accused Kartik Chakraborty that the deceased had illicit relationship with someone else
for which Ajay Chakraborty wanted to kill her is not supported by any witness. This again
has clouded the voluntariness of the confession. 39. Therefore, on a careful consideration of the above, we are reluctant to place much
reliance on such confessions or rather retracted confessions. 40. If the confessions made before the police in presence of PW25 the Executive
Magistrate or the confessions made before the Judicial Magistrate PW26 are excluded,
there is hardly any evidence to prove that accused Ajay and Kartik Chakraborty had
conspired to murder Anita Chakraborty and as a result of such conspiracy and to give
effect thereto they had engaged hired killers Ali Akbar and Kalidas to commit the murder
of Anita Chakraborty on payment of Rs.8000 who thereafter committed the murder on
10.12.2009 at around midnight. There is no legally admissible evidence to that effect. Even
 Page No.# 25/26

the leading to discovery of the material exhibits would stand vitiated because of the related
confession made by the accused persons before the police in front of an Executive
Magistrate. 41. No doubt the victim was killed in a most gruesome and dastardly manner. But
conviction in a criminal trial has to be on the basis of legally admissible and cogent
evidence wherefrom one and only one conclusion can be reached, that is, accused persons
had conspired together and murdered the victim. 42. As noticed above there is no such legally admissible evidence on record. Suspicion
howsoever grave it may be cannot take the place of hard and unimpeachable evidence
which is lacking in the present case. On the basis of suspicion and legally untenable
evidence, we are not inclined to uphold the conviction of the accused persons. That being
the position, we are unable to find the answers to the questions posed by us in paragraph
11 above from the evidence presented by the prosecution. 43. While we are conscious of the fact that a young woman was brutally killed in the
prime of her life with the assailants remaining unpunished, we cannot however be swayed
by emotion and give a go-bye to well established principles of evidence to arrive at a
definite conclusion in a criminal proceeding. 44. For the aforesaid reasons, we have no other alternative but to allow the appeals by
setting aside the impugned judgment and order dated 13.11.2017. 45. Consequently, since the appellants have been acquitted, they are set at liberty.
However, their bail bonds shall continue to be in force for six months in terms of Section
437A Cr.PC. In this connection, it may be mentioned that in Criminal Appeal
No.359/2017 ( Abdul Malik Vs. State of Assam ) a Division Bench of this Court vide order
dated 14.11.2018, has held that Section 437A Cr.PC would be applicable only in a case of
acquittal by the trial Court or in a case of acquittal by the appellate Court by setting aside
the conviction, its invocation being dependent upon the facts and circumstances of each
case. In the given facts of the present case we feel that appellants have to be given the
benefit of doubt and consequently their conviction have to be set aside. In such
 Page No.# 26/26

circumstances invocation of Section 437A Cr.PC would be justified. 46. Appeals are accordingly allowed. 47. Office to send down the LCR forthwith.