- 1. This suit for restraining the defendant from infringing the trademark, 

copyright and from passing off his goods as that of the plaintiff's being deceptively 

similar, rendition of accounts and for delivery of impugned products and ancillary 

material has been filed by the plaintiff stating that he has been carrying on the 

business of manufacturing wheat flour, besan, maida, suji and preparation of cereals 

etc. since 1997. He has a capital base of Rs. 5 crore and annual turn­over of Rs. 2 ­ 3 

crores. The plaintiff has adopted 'New Jyoti Brand Atta' for the wheat flour being 

manufactured and marketed by him having unique and distinctive features. The 
TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 1 of 13
 product is being sold in plastic packets/containers on which the trademark and other 

particulars are printed in red and white. The artistic features of the label printed on 

the bags have distinctive get­up, colour­scheme, font and style. The plaintiff had 

applied for registration of his trademark on 30.10.2000 in respect whereof reference 

no. 21040 dated 23.01.2001 was allotted by the office of Registrar of Trade Marks. 

The plaintiff has wide network of more than 50 authorized dealers for marketing his 

products throughout India. The sales of the plaintiff have been consistently growing 

on all India basis due to superior quality of its product which are generously 

publicized. Plaintiff has also registered his trademark 'New Jyoti Brand Atta' in 

various cities of India where he has business centers. 2. The defendant is engaged in the business of manufacturing wheat flour. 

By imitating his products, he is illegally passing off the same under the brand name 

of plaintiff thereby violating his common­law and statutory rights without obtaining 

his permission/ authorization. The defendant has also been selling wheat flour in the 

plastic bags of the shape and size of plaintiff's bag. The complete layout of the label 

containing the identical trademark resembles the artistic features on the bag of 

plaintiff. The defendant has copied the plaintiff's packaging with motive to create an 

impression in the market that his products are in some manner associated with 

plaintiff. The misrepresentation on his part is well planned with a view to deceive the 

consumers into making a wrong choice. The lawyers of plaintiff have communicated 

with the defendant on coming to know of his illegal activities in about January, 2004 

and he was asked to desist from invading the proprietary rights of the plaintiff. The 

plaintiff is entitled in law to prevent others from unauthorized and illegal use of 

trademark which has become distinctive of his goods on continuous usage of more 
TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 2 of 13
 than six years. The defendant has not disclosed his name and address on the 

impugned products and is thereby passing off his inferior quality goods on the 

goodwill of plaintiff. On 10.07.2004, a representative of plaintiff had visited the 

defendant and found him to be continuously using the trademark of the plaintiff in 

respect of his inferior products. The defendant thus has been damaging the business, 

goodwill and reputation of plaintiff by indulging in unfair trade activities. The 

plaintiff is likely to suffer a setback in his plan to double the production in short 

time, if the defendant were not stopped. Although, the exact losses so far suffered by 

the plaintiff due to unfair trade competition by the plaintiff cannot be estimated yet 

he must have sustained business losses to the tune of Rs. 50 lakh. Hence this suit. 3. In his written statement the defendant has taken preliminary objections 

that the suit is based on false and fabricated documents including bills and samples 

of plastic bags, for which plaintiff is liable to be prosecuted. It is also stated that 

plaint suffers from insufficiency of court fee. It is stated that the alleged trademark of 

plaintiff has never been used by the defendant and the suit is intended to monopolies 

the trade of wheat flour and to drive the defendant out of business. On merits, the 

claim of plaintiff regarding the start of business, financial reach and the uniqueness 

of the trademark have been denied. It is stated that he has not filed the audit reports, 

wheat purchase receipts, license from Food & Supply Department and other relevant 

documents in support of his assertions. The claim of plaintiff for having gained 

goodwill and reputation in the trademark 'New Jyoti Brand Atta' has been 

controverted. The averment about the defendant selling wheat flour under the 

identical trademark in printed plastic bags is vehemently denied. The defendant has 

been running his business in the name and style of M/s Jyoti Flour Mills as its 
TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 3 of 13
 proprietor and is marketing wheat flour in the name of 'Shravan Bhog' which is 

absolutely different from the brand name of plaintiff. It has been refuted that any 

notice/communication was received on behalf of the plaintiff alleging violation of 

the plaintiff's rights in the trademark. 4. Defendant while denying having ever raised any invoice in the name of 

'New Jyoti Brand Atta' alleged that the bills produced by the plaintiff are forged 

with a view to mislead the court in order to obtain adverse order against the 

defendant. Defendant reiterated that the alleged trademark of the plaintiff has never 

been used by him in any form or material, packaging, container etc. There is no 

question of defendant indulging in unfair competition or unlawful trade activities 

with a view to dent the profits or reputation of the plaintiff. The visit of any 

representative of the plaintiff to defendant's premises on 10.07.2004 or any other date 

has also been denied. It is stated that no cause of action has accrued to the plaintiff 

for filing the suit, which is therefore liable to be dismissed with heavy cost. 5. In replication, plaintiff has reaffirmed the contents of plaintiff and 

controverted those of the written statement. The allegation of bills filed by the 

plaintiff being false, forged and fabricated and that the suit has been filed with 

malafide intention to force the defendant out of wheat flour trade, are refuted. It is 

claimed that the defense raised is not tenable. 6. By way of an interim order dated 04.08.2004; the defendant was 

restrained from using the trademark 'New Jyoti Brand Atta' till further orders. It 

was vacated on an application under Order XXXIX Rule 4 CPC filed by the 

TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 4 of 13
 defendant being allowed on 22.01.2005 with which an application under Order 

XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC of the plaintiff was dismissed. 7. Following issues were framed on 14.03.2005 on the pleadings of 

parties:­ 1. Whether the bills filed by the plaintiff are forged and 

 fabricated? OPD. 2. Whether the present suit is liable to be dismissed under Order VII Rule 11 CPC for insufficient court fee? OPD. 3. Whether the defendant has never used or using the 

 trademark 'New Jyoti Brand Atta' of the plaintiff? OPD. 4. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree of 

 permanent injunction against the defendant as prayed in 

 para 1 to 4 of the plaint? OPP 5. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree of rendition 

 of account of profits as prayed in para 5 of the prayer of 

 the plaint? OPP. 6. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the relief as prayed in 

 para 6 & 7 of the prayer of the plaint? OPP. 7. Relief. TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 5 of 13 8. In support of his case, plaintiff has examined only himself as PW 1 and 

proved the copy of application filed with the Registrar of Trademarks, Ex. PW 1/1; 

sample of plastic bags being used by the defendant for selling his products Ex. PW 

1/2 & Ex. PW 1/3 and 69 bills of different dates issued by the plaintiff pertaining to 

the sale of goods under his trademark Ex. PW 1/4 (collectively). He has also 

generally stated his case as per plaint with the addition that he has been maintaining 

duplicate bill book so as to issue duplicate bills to the customers whenever asked at a 

later date. These bill books were printed when the telephone numbers with prefix '2' 

had come into existence. The word 'duplicate' used to be affixed on such bills by 

rubber stamps. Such stamp was not put on the carbon copies as the same were to be 

kept by the plaintiff for his own record. The duplicate bill book was not meant for 

regular use but whenever a customer sought any bill of a specific date. It was 

reiterated that genuine documents were filed by the plaintiff along with the suit. He 

had closed his evidence on 25.11.2009. 9. On his part, defendant has examined himself as DW 1 and proved copy 

of complaint under Section 138 of The Negotiable Instruments Act read with Section 

420 IPC filed by him against Pramod Sharma proprietor of M/s Shivam Traders as 

Ex. DW 1/1, besides stating his defence. DW 2 Sh. Devender Kumar, Senior Office 

Assistant (General), MTNL had proved his authorization Ex. DW 2/1 and documents 

reflecting that prefix '2' was added to the seven digit landline telephone numbers in 

Delhi with effect from 05.12.2002 as Ex. DW 2/2. DW 3 Sh. R. K. Sharma, Head 

Clerk from Food & Supply Department had tendered copy of Delhi Wheat 

(Licensing & Control) Order, 1996 as Ex. DW 3/1. Defendant had thereafter closed 
TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 6 of 13
 his evidence on 12.07.2011. 10. I have heard Sh. Asit Tiwari, Adv. Ld. counsel for the defendant and 

carefully perused the file. None has been following the suit on behalf of the plaintiff 

for quite some time. As such he did not avail the opportunity of addressing his case 

before the court. Before taking up the issues, I would point out at the outset that the 

suit although has been filed in the name of proprietorship concern yet the name of 

proprietor as plaintiff has been transposed in these presents in order to rectify the 

legal mistake irrespective of the fact that no objection in this behalf has been raised 

by the defendant as the suit could not have been instituted in the name of a 

proprietorship concern in view of Order XXX Rule 10 CPC . Only the proprietor 

himself could have sued. For support in this behalf the ratio in 'Ganesh Trading 

Company Vs. Moji Ram , AIR 1978 SC 484' and 'Kedarnath Muttumal Vaish Vs. 

Babloo & Anr. AIR 1976 MP 62'may be useful. Issue wise findings of the court are 

recorded as under:­ 11. Issue No. 1:­

11(a). It has been argued on behalf of the defendant that fabrication of most 

of the bills filed by the plaintiff with plaint is writ large from their face as all of them 

carry eight digit landline telephone number of the plaintiff in the year 2000 and 2001 

despite the fact that the landline numbers in Delhi were converted from seven to 

eight digit in December, 2002. The defendant had also filed an application under Section 340 Cr.P.C. simultaneously with an application under Order XXXIX Rule 4 

CPC . The same is also taken up with this issue. It was stated that the bills have been 

TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 7 of 13
 purposely fabricated with a view to gain undue advantage over the defendant. The 

plaintiff has allegedly committed the offences under Section 193 , 194 , 195 , 196 , 199 , 200 & 209 of Indian Penal Code and is liable to be prosecuted therefore. 

11(b) The plaintiff while refuting that the documents are false and fabricated 

or that they do not pertain to the dates mentioned on them, stated that these were 

issued subsequently at the instance of customers from a duplicate bill book which is 

separate from the regular bill book. Such bills were given to the customers after 

clearly marking 'duplicate' with a rubber stamp. The copies thereof retained by the 

plaintiff and filed in this case, were not so marked. It has been alleged that in the 

absence of any tenable defense, the defendant is unnecessarily trying to create 

confusion. It is denied that the plaintiff has done anything wrong knowingly or with 

dishonest intention or that he is liable to be prosecuted for any criminal offence. 

11(c) Plaintiff was directed to produce the bill books pertaining to 69 bills 

collectively tendered as Ex. PW 1/4, on 15.12.2006. He however, did not bring any. 

It is not his case since beginning of the case that he is relying upon copies of 

duplicate bills which were issued not against the supply of products but on the 

demand of customers on dates much subsequent to the so called actual dates of 

supply. The defence has been moulded in reply to application under Order XXXIX 

Rule 4 CPC , reply to application under Section 340 Cr.PC and finally in his affidavit 

dated 24.08.2006 only on being caught on the wrong foot by the vigilant defendant. 

11(d) Neither the original bill books have been produced for verification of 

supplies having been made on the ante­dates specified on the copies of duplicate 

TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 8 of 13
 bills nor could it be explained by the plaintiff as to how some of the bills out of Ex. 

PW 1/4 bear the signatures of recipients with dates. Since the tainted bills are 

originals, the retention of their bill books containing the carbon/office copies by the 

plaintiff despite unequivocal direction of the court is sufficient to draw adverse 

inference against him. 11(e) The plaintiff has not even felt the need to explain as to how and for 

which purpose his so called customers prevailed upon him to issue duplicate bills on 

dates much later than the alleged actual dates of supply of goods. By creating false 

documents of such nature, the plaintiff was manifestly perpetuating fraud which he 

tried to play in this court to gain benefit/advantage over the defendant and allowing 

his so called customers to utilize false evidence before a Government Authority 

and/or consumers. 11(f) At least 22 of the bills out of Ex. PW1/4 thus are held to be absolutely 

false and fabricated. The plaintiff was expected to produce more documents viz. 

ledger account/cash book, transport bills etc. to generate confidence of the court in 

respect of the other bills. He however has produced none. The veracity of rest of the 

bills therefore, remained within the category "doubtful". The issue as such is 

decided in affirmative. 12. Issue no. 2 :­

 The onus to prove this issue is upon the defendant. Substantial 

arguments however have not been addressed by Sh. Tiwari in this behalf. Even the 

objections in Para 10 of the written statement and preliminary objection no. 2 are 
TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 9 of 13
 cursory. The valuation of suit for the purposes of court fee and jurisdiction has 

unequivocally been specified in Para 21 of the plaint for each relief separately and 

court fee has accordingly been paid in compliance of section 17 of The Court Fee 

Act. The objection of defendant therefore, is found to be without substance. The 

issue is decided in negative. 13. Issue no. 3:­

13(a) Except the two plastic bags one bearing trademark 'New Jyoti Brand 

Atta' Ex. PW1/2 and other is bearing the trademark Jyoti Brand Atta'Ex. PW1/3, 

no document has been filed by the plaintiff in his effort to link the case with 

defendant. Interestingly the plastic bag Ex. PW1/2 prominently bears the name of 

Proprietorship of the plaintiff while the other Ex. PW1/3 bears the name of 

Proprietorship of defendant. The plaintiff has not filed a sample of his own plastic 

packet or container or photographs thereof for the purpose of comparison to chalk 

out similarities/resemblance. He had claimed to be able to procure an invoice raised 

by the defendant mentioning the prices of product in Para 13 of the plaint. But no 

such document has been filed in this case. It may legitimately be inferred that 

production thereof would not have advanced the cause of plaintiff.

 

13 (b) It has not been explained or otherwise proved by documentary or ocular 

evidence by the defendant that either of the plastic bags Ex. PW1/2 and Ex. PW1/3 

was meant for the products of defendant or that they were got manufactured by him. 

There is therefore, absolutely no evidence to fasten the liability emanating from these 

two bags, on the defendant. having ever manufactured or sold wheat flour or any other product or otherwise used 

the trademark "New Jyoti Brand Atta". Of course, he has been carrying on his 

business in the name and style of Jyoti Flour Mills with which trade name the 

plaintiff manifestly did not exhibit any reservation. Apart from himself no witness 

has been examined by the plaintiff who may have purchased or seen the goods of 

defendant under the trademark of plaintiff being sold, displayed or advertised. Here 

it is pertinent to point out that until the registration of his trademark, about which no 

information has been imparted to the court, the plaintiff cannot claim to have 

acquired statutory rights in it. His claim of having registered his trademark in various 

cities also remained unsubstantiated. The issue therefore, is decided in affirmative. 14. Issue no. 4:­

14(a) The plaintiff boasted of having wide financial base and turn­over 

running into crores of rupees but neither the audited balance sheets have been filed 

nor documents showing procurement of wheat in large quantities produced. The 

figure of turn­over of his business proclaimed in Para 2 and 6 of the plaint would 

invariably have necessitated procurement of wheat in excess of 10 quintals at a time 

for which he would have required license/permission under Rule 4 of Delhi Wheat 

(Licensing & Control) Order, 1996 but he apparently did not apply for and obtain 

the same as he does not appear to be in the habit of doing things by complying with 

the statutory requirements. The communication/correspondence allegedly exchanged 

with the defendant calling on him to cease and desist from usurping the trademark of 

TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 11 of 13
 plaintiff has also not been shown the light of day. Even their details are not revealed. 

The representative who had been sent to visit the premises of defendant on 

10.07.2004 to find out the usage of plaintiff's trademark has neither been identified 

nor was he examined as a witness by the latter. The exaggerated claim is invariably 

intended to prejudice the defendant not by legal and fair but foul means. 

 

14 (b) Plaintiff having failed to establish the actual and wide range use of trademark 

"New Jyoti Brand Atta"for goods of Class 30 since last 6­8 years prior to the 

institution of the suit, in establishing that the defendant has also been selling wheat 

flour under identical trademark and expressing no grievance to his trade name, is not 

entitled to the reliefs of permanent injunction claimed in the suit. Issue is decided in 

negative. 15. Issues no. 5 & 6:­

 The plaintiff having utterly failed sustain that he had acquired valuable 

proprietary rights in the trademark "New Jyoti Brand Atta"by long, extensive and 

continuous user; that the trademark has gained secondary meaning and is associated 

with plaintiff by dealers and consumers; that the defendant has been passing off his 

goods of the same class under identical or deceptively similar trademark and that the 

offensive acts of defendant are detrimental to the reputation and revenue of plaintiff, 

there is no question of asking the defendant to render accounts of the profits earned 

by sale of impugned products or for delivery up of a tainted goods. No order or 

direction of divulging the names of his dealers/agents/stockiest or retailers can be 

given to the defendant in this background. The issues are decided in negative. A corollary of the above findings on the issues is that the plaintiff is 

not entitled to the claimed reliefs. His suit is dismissed with costs which are 

conservatively quantified at Rs. 10,000/­. In view of the fact that plaintiff has tried to smear the majesty of justice 

and to gain undue advantage over the defendant through the portal of court on the 

basis of false and fabricated documents, he deserves to be penalized. Further Inquiry 

into the matter and criminal prosecution of the plaintiff will definitely entangle the 

parties into litigation for another few years. It will add to the trauma of defendant 

already aghast with litigation. In this background with a view to meet the ends of 

justice it is deemed just and expedient to direct the plaintiff to pay penalty of Rs.

25,000/­ (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand Only). The same shall be recoverable by the 

defendant from him as compensation for dragging him in a false case. Decree sheet be accordingly prepared. File be consigned to Record 

Room. Announced in the open court 
on 23rd September, 2013
 (Sunil K Aggarwal)
 Addl. District Judge (Central)­10
 Delhi

TM No. 02 of 2010 Page no. 13 of 13