Heard counsel for the parties. This second bail application has been filed by the
applicant, who has been arrested and is in Jail in connection
with Crime No.266/2012 registered with Police Station
Gopalganj, District Sagar for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 120B , 417 of I.P.C.
and further under Section 3 (D) (2) , read with Section 4 of
the Madhya Pradesh Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam,
1937 - commonly known as VYAPAM examination scam
cases. According to the prosecution, the applicant
impersonated the original candidate Vikas Rajput, who was
to appear in VYAPAM examination. The said Vikas Rajput
through is co-brother - (Sachin Yadav) had contacted one
D.P.Yadav. D.P.Yadav, according to the prosecution,
organised for the applicant to appear in the examination and
to impersonate the original candidate Vikas Rajput. The
applicant having agreed to do so, has been named as accused.
 The applicant has been arrested on 10.12.2014. It is not in
dispute that D.P.Yadav, the middleman has been arrested.
Charge-sheet has been filed against the applicant which pre-
supposes that investigation against the applicant is complete
as of now. It is fairly stated by the counsel for the State, on
instructions, that custodial interrogation of the applicant is no
more necessary in the present crime as of now and that the
applicant is not involved in any other crime of similar type.
Since D.P. Yadav is already arrested and on the basis of
information to be divulged by him, further investigation will
proceed against Sachin Yadav and Vikas Rajput, coupled
with the fact that the applicant through counsel undertakes to
extend full cooperation to the Investigating Officer for
further investigation of the crime including against him and
also to punctually appear before the Trial Court to ensure
early disposal of the trial, and the fact that custody of the
applicant is no more required in connection with Crime
No.266/2012 and that Vikas Rajput is already released on
bail, in the interest of justice, the applicant ought to be
released on bail. Considering the above facts, we are inclined to grant
bail, but, the applicant will have to abide by strict conditions
including by offering surety for amount as indicated
hereafter. Taking over all view of the matter, therefore, the
 applicant is ordered to be released on bail on following
conditions to be observed by him during the trial and till
further order:- and

 (4) The applicant will deposit his passport, if
 available, with the Investigating Agency,
 else file affidavit in this Court declaring
 that the applicant does not have any
 passport of any country. This compliance
 will be condition precedent for release on
 bail. This bail application is disposed of accordingly.