DINESH KUMAR SHARMA,J : d. Due to the policy framework, where one manufacturer could
 only choose one wholesaler gave the manufacturers' a very
 critical position to decide the profits of the wholesale
 businesses. Though the manufacturers seemingly were
 supposed to take this crucial decision on their own as per their
 choice, but, this investigation has revealed that Pernod Ricard
 (one of the Accused), one of the biggest manufacturers in the
 country, also a subject of the ongoing investigation, was in fact
 directed by and conspired with Sh Vijay Nair to give their
 wholesale distribution business to the accused M/s Indo Spirits BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 11 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 (L1 wholesaler), which is a part of the Super Cartel including
 Sh. Abhishek Boinpally. e. Sh Vijay Nair, who has orchestrated this entire scam is not an
 ordinary worker of the AAP but a close associate of Sh Arvind
 Kejriwal, the CM of Delhi and was closely interacting with the
 Dy CM for the Excise policy related matters. Sh Vijay Nair, as
 per his statement under section 50 of PMLA, 2002 functions
 from the camp office of Sh Arvind Kejriwal, CM, Delhi.
 Further, Sh Vijay Nair, since 2020, has been residing in the
 Govt bungalow allotted to a Cabinet Minister of Delhi Govt, Sh
 Kailash Gehlot, part of GoM of Excise Policy 2021-22. Sh
 Vijay Nair, does not have any other residence in Delhi. Irony
 being, Sh Gehlot lives at another private residence in
 Najafgarh. f. Sh Vijay Nair had arranged meeting of the owner/controller of
 Indo Spirits Sh Sameer Mahandru, with Sh Arvind Kejriwal,
 CM, Delhi and when that didn't materialise, he arranged a
 video call through facetime on his phone for Sh Sameer and Sh
 Arvind Kejriwal, where Sh Arvind said to Sh Sameer that, Vijay
 is his boy and that Sh Sameer should trust him and carry on
 with him. These facts are relevant to mention so as to establish
 the abatement of his actions in relation to the Excise Policy
 scam, by the political leaders of the AAP. g. Sh Vijay Nair, is Incharge of Media and Communication for the BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 12 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 AAP, had no role in the Delhi Govt. in fact acted as a
 broker/liaison/middlemen on behalf of the top leaders of the
 AAP for getting bribes/kickbacks from various stakeholders in
 the Delhi Liquor business in exchange of favourable outcomes
 (policy changes) in the Excise Policy of 2021-22, which was
 being drafted at that time. He even threatened the stakeholders
 who were not agreeing to his demands that he changes
 suitable/desired by them may not go through entirely if they do
 not concede to his demands. h. Sh Vijay Nair, in connivance with Sh Dinesh Arora and through
 him with Sh Amit Arora, has also arm twisted a wholesaler to
 surrender the L1 license and then coerced the manufacturers
 surrendered through that license to choose the wholesalers of
 his choice and favour to direct the profit margins to his co-
 conspirators, so that there was complete control on the
 kickbacks to be extracted. i. Sh Vijay Nair, on behalf of leaders of AAP has received
 kickbacks to the tune of Rs. 100 Cr from a group, for
 convenience, we may call it the South Group (as termed in the
 statements of various persons recorded during the
 investigation), whose prominent persons are Sh Magunta
 Srinivasulu Reddy, Sh Raghav Magunta, Sh Sarath Reddy and
 Ms K Kavitha. The South Group was represented by Sh
 Abhishek Boinpally, Sh Arun Pillai and Sh Buchi Babu. Sh
 Abhishek Boinpalli facilitated the transfer of Rs. 100 Cr BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 13 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 kickback in connivance and conspiracy with Sh Vijay Nair and
 his associate Sh Dinesh Arora. j. Investigation of the trail of this kickback so far has revealed
 that part of these funds were used in the election campaign of
 the AAP for Goa Assembly elections 2022. Cash payments to
 the tune of Rs. 70 lacs were made to the volunteers who were
 part of the survey teams. Sh Vijay Nair himself has told certain
 persons involved in the campaign related work to receive the
 payments in cash. Advertisment/hoarding related work were
 directed to raise only part of the claims in the bill and receive
 the remaining in cash. These part cash payments were managed
 through Hawala Channels. Teams led by Sh Vijay Nair have
 directed certain firms to even issue bogus invoices. k. These kickbacks were paid in advance to the AAP leaders
 through Vijay Nair by the South Group as a part of agreement
 between the South Group and the AAP leaders. Against the
 kickbacks paid, the south group secured uninhibited access,
 undue favours, attained stakes in established wholesale
 businesses and multiple retail zones (over and above what was
 allowed in the policy). In one of the ways to recover/recoup the
 kickbacks given by the South Group, partners of the South
 group were given 65% stakes in Indo Spirits in collusion with
 the accused Sh Sameer Mahandru. The South group controlled
 these stakes in Indo Spirits, through false representation,
 concealment of true ownership and proxies i.e. Sh Arun Pillai BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 14 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 and Sh Prem Rahul. This partnership formation was directed by
 Sh Vijay Nair on the assurance of giving the wholesale business
 of Pernod Ricard to Indo Spirits. l. The gravity and depth of this criminal conspiracy is such that to
 grant L1 wholesale license to Indo Spirits despite various
 complaints highlighting Sameer's and Indospirit Marketing Pvt
 Ltd's role in cartelisation, when Sameer submitted a fresh
 application in a different name of Indo Spirits, the Dy CM,
 Delhi, Sh Manish Sisodia himself directed the Excise
 Commissioner to grant the license on priority. m. Pernod Ricard, is one of the accused in the instant case, which
 through Sh Benoy Babu and others, in conspiracy with the
 super cartel and Sh Vijay Nair gave their wholesale business to
 Indo Spirits. The Excise Policy 2021-22 required the
 manufacturers to register their brands at the Lowest EDP net of
 all discount/commission/rebate of any nature whatsoever,
 however, Pernod Ricard by way of conspiracy has got their
 price fixed without deducting the discounts/rebates they offer
 thus getting a much higher price fixed for their brands and thus
 earning a huge additional profit which was ineligible to them
 and should have been passed to the consumers as lower MRP.
 If the manufacturer had registered the brands at actually lowest
 EDP, the capacity of the manufacturers to give out credit notes
 would have been limited. However, Pernod Ricard paid Rs.
 131.9 Crores credit notes to the retailers via the wholesalers, BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 15 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 where the benefit of discounts was shifted to the retailers
 instead of the actual consumer at large. n. That, in order to create a device for continuous payment of
 kickbacks to Sh Vijay Nair, an unheard of margin of 12% was
 provided to the private wholesalers (L1s) contrary to the
 recommendations of the Expert Committee headed by Sh Ravi
 Dhawan, IAS and then Excise Commissioner which as detailed
 below, suggested for a single Govt entity as Wholesaler for
 Delhi. On this account, the Govt lost the revenue of 12% Rs.
 581 cr. that would have accrued to it in case the Expert
 Committee recommendations were accepted by the Govt, which
 in the subject policy was assigned to the Pvt. Players, only to
 fill the personal coffers of the leaders of AAP. This loss to the
 Govt exchequer actually got illegally diverted into ostentatious
 profits to the wholesalers including the accused M/s Indo
 Spirits, which was used to recoup the kickbacks paid in advance
 by the South group. o. The South Group directly and indirectly controlled 9 retail
 zones, which included 5 retail zones of Sh Sarath Reddy
 (accused no). In some cases the control was via financing of the
 EMD (Earnest Money Deposit) for the L7 tender process.
 ostensible investments, relatives/dummies/proxies. Apart from
 the direct profits accruing from the wholesale business of Indo
 Spirits, modus operandi for recovering the kickback paid in
 advance by the South group, monies in the form of outstanding BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 16 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 from the ostensible sales from the wholesale of Indo Spirit to
 Retail of the South group with an understanding that the
 outstanding was not to be recovered and the amount will be
 shown as recoverable in the books of account. Sh Sarath
 Reddy's controlled entities owed over Rs. 60 Cr (approx.) to
 Indo Spirits, which is shown as outstanding but was not meant
 to be recovered as part of the conspiracy. p. The retail business was lucrative and the turnover was huge on
 daily basis. Further, the retail sales were in cash and not credit
 based, meaning thereby the generation of funds/recovery of the
 purchase cost was immediate. Thus, there was no valid reason
 for not repaying the outstanding towards the wholesaler either
 on the same day or soonest after. Another novel method of recovery of the kickbacks was through
 passing of Credit Notes. Ordinarily the credit notes are passed to
 the person who had direct nexus with or has sold the goods,
 however, in this business, the manufacturers were giving credit
 notes to the retailers with whom they had no direct transactions
 with. Further, there was no apparent reason to give credit notes to
 businesses which are minting money with MRP being 3 times of
 the cost and having profit margin of 185% approx. The fact that
 the credit notes were an eyewash to transfer money illegally to
 pay kickbacks is evident from the fact that the ostensible reason of
 volume based credit notes was bogus and credit notes have been
 passed in an inconsistent manner considering the sale volume. For example, Pernod Ricard has not given any credit notes to M/s
 Adharv Enterprises (not a favoured L7) against the volume of
 19,080 cases purchased in the months of Dec, 2021 Jan, 22 and
 Feb 22. However, Pernod Ricard has given Rs. 61.01 lakhs as
 credit notes to M/s Organomix Ecosystems Pvt. Ltd. (which is part
 of the South Group cartel) who has purchased 17,644 cases
 during the said 3 months." 4. The role of the Petitioner has been discussed in detail in the complaint
 filed by ED and is not been discussed here for the sake of brevity. B. SUBMISSIOINS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER 5. Ms. Rebecca John, learned senior counsel along with Mr. Samundra
 Sarang, learned counsel for the petitioner-Vijay Nair has submitted
 that the entirety of the present case pertains to allegations of
 irregularities in the framing of the Excise Policy in a manner which
 permitted formation of cartels and windfall profits for certain preferred
 persons who had paid kickback/bribes in exchange thereof. 6. Learned senior counsel submitted that the petitioner-Vijay Nair is
 India's most renowned entrepreneurs in the music and entertainment
 industry. Petitioner-Vijay Nair was associated with the Aam Admi
 Party (AAP), during the Maharastra Elections in 2014-15 and finally
 joined the AAP as a full-time volunteer in 2018. Petitioner-Vijay Nair
 started working in the media and communications. 7. Learned senior counsel submitted that Petitioner-Vijay Nair had been
 playing a key role in devising the media and communications strategy
 in the election campaigns of the party in Delhi and Punjab. However, BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 18 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 the Petitioner-Vijay Nair did not hold any government
 position/appointment of any nature whatsoever and is only committed
 towards developing the media and communications strategy on relevant
 political issues for the party. 8. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that role of the
 petitioner in relation to the Excise Policy was confined to the extent of
 the media role out of the Excise Policy highlighting the benefits and
 clarifying the facts regarding the same to the public at large. It has been
 submitted that the petitioner had no role to play in the drafting of the
 Excise Policy or had any contribution in relation to the framing of the
 Excise Policy itself. It was submitted that initially, the petitioner was
 arrested in the predicate offence by the CBI on 27.09.2022 and while
 the petitioner was in custody, he was arrested by E.D. on 30.11.2023.
 The petitioner was granted bail in the predicate offence on 14.11.2022.
 In the original complaint filed by E.D. the petitioner was not named as
 an accused. However, the E.D. filed a supplementary complaint
 wherein the petitioner was named as an accused. 9. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the case of the
 E.D. rest upon the conspiracy amongst the south group which includes
 individuals from Hyderabad (Arun Pillai, Abhishek Boinpally, Sharath
 Reddy) who were interested in joining the liquor business in Delhi.;
 Liquor Industry Players which includes representatives of prominent
 Liquor Manufacturer (Manoj Rai and Benoy Babu- Pernod Ricard) and
 prominent wholesale Distributors (Sameer Mahendru- Indospirits and
 Aman Dhall- Brindco); Public officials include members of AAP
 (represented by and through Vijay Nair)- who allegedly tweaked the BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 19 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 policy itself; and Excise Department officials- who allegedly cleared
 licenses/participated in the execution of the conspiracy. 10. Learned senior counsel submitted that the story of the alleged
 conspiracy can be broken down in terms of the following :- 11. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the E.D. has
 mainly relied upon the statement of Dinesh Arora who has turned
 approver. Mr. Dinesh Arora in his statement under Section 50 of BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 20 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 PMLA Act has stated that the petitioner-Vijay Nair received INR 90-
 100 Cr. of kickbacks from Abhishek Boinpally and members of the
 South Group and out of the said INR 90 -100 Cr, Dinesh Arora was
 directly involved in the transmission of kickbacks of INR 20 - 30 Cr
 through Hawala channels. 12. Further, Dinesh Arora in his statement has stated that when Mahadev
 Liquor (Jasdeep Chadha and Sunny Marwah) refused to pay 6%
 kickbacks, Vijay Nair got Jasdeep Chadha's factory in Punjab
 shutdown with the objective of coercing her to surrender license in
 Delhi in exchange for getting her factories reopened in Punjab. 13. It was further stated by Dinesh Arora in his statement that Vijay Nair
 influenced the excise department officials to resolve the license-related
 issues being faced by Indospirits i.e. Sameer Mahendru. 14. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that there is not
 even a shred of evidence produced by the E.D. that INR 100 Cr was
 received on behalf of Vijay Nair. It has been submitted that to the best
 statement of Dinesh Arora speaks of the movement of INR 20 - 30 Cr
 from Hyderabad to Delhi. 15. It has further been submitted that even as per the statement of Dinesh
 Arora that he never handled any currency. His best case is that he
 received calls from Abhishek Boinpally or Lupin, who gave him a
 phone number and currency number. These calls were neither recorded
 nor has Dinesh Arora been able to show any digital evidence
 confirming the same. 16. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner further submitted that Dinesh
 Arora merely goes on to further state, that he wrote down the phone BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 21 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 number/currency number on a piece of paper and handed it over to
 Rajesh Joshi or Sudhir. These pieces of paper were never recovered
 from either Dinesh Arora or Rajesh Joshi or Sudhir, to whom he claims
 to have transmitted the said paper and information. 17. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner further submitted that if
 Dinesh Arora only took down phone numbers or currency numbers,
 how could he know that INR 20 - 30 Crores were transferred to Delhi,
 since he does not state that the information given to him also included
 the amount of currency being transferred. 18. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner further submitted that Dinesh
 Arora made another loose statement that Abhishek ―expressed his
 anger by saying that even after giving INR 90-100 Cr to Vijay Nair (for
 AAP / Govt.), that their shops are not opening on time.‖ 19. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner further submitted that
 statement of this nature can be corroborated by the bribe giver, or the
 bribe taker - all of whom are accused persons in this case. It has been
 submitted that Abhishek Boinpally has not corroborated Dinesh
 Arora's statement with respect to any payments of bribes. It has been
 submitted that Rajesh Joshi and Sudhir, the so-called receivers of the
 bribe have also not corroborated his statement. 20. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that in fact Dinesh
 Arora in exchange for his freedom cooked up a story that lacks
 corroboration in all material particulars and cannot be relied upon. 21. It has further been submitted that even the Trial Court while granting
 bail to Rajesh Joshi vide order dated 06.05.2023 has raised serious
 doubts about the reliability of the statements made by Dinesh Arora. 22. Ms. Rebecca John, learned senior counsel submitted that in respect of
 the allegation of arm-twisting of Mahadev Liquor and Jasdeep Chadha,
 the statement of Jasdeep Chadha recorded under Section 50 of the
 PMLA does not corroborate Dinesh Arora's statement. It has been
 submitted that in fact, a perusal of the statement will lead to the
 conclusion that Vijay Nair never met Jasdeep Chadha and she only met
 Dinesh Arora who seems to have orchestrated the entire thing for his
 own personal benefit. 23. Ms. Rebecca John, learned senior counsel in respect of the allegation of
 influencing excise department officials to resolve issues faced by
 Indospirits submitted that the statement of C. Aravind recorded under
 Section 50 of the PMLA does not corroborate Dinesh Arora's
 statement. In fact, he is specifically asked whether Vijay Nair contacted
 him to resolve the Indospirits' licensing issue on which he denied to
 have spoken to Vijay Nair on the subject. 24. Ms. Rebecca John, learned senior counsel further submitted that the ED
 has conveniently resorted to shifting their stances on who is the
 ―kingpin / sole decision maker‖ of the Delhi Excise Policy based on
 which bail application they are opposing. 25. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner
 had no role at all in policy drafting, formulation, framing, or
 implementation. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner further
 submitted that even after filing the supplementary complaint on
 06.01.2023 naming the petitioner as an accused, the ED has sought to
 interrogate further examine the applicant vide orders dated 17.03.2023
 and 02.05.2023. 26. It has further been submitted that the investigation qua petitioner -
 Vijay Nair is still not complete and the complaints and supplementary
 complaints have been filed piecemeal in nature. It has been submitted
 that the supplementary complaint was filed only to defeat the statutory
 right of bail. 27. The petitioner has placed reliance on Thwaha Fasal v. Union of India (2021 SCCOnline SC 1000), Vijay Agrawal Through Parokar v.
 Directorate of Enforcement ( 2023 SCCOnline Del 3176), Anil
 Vasantrao Deshmukh v. State of Maharashtra (2022 SCC Online
 Bom 3150). 28. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 petitioner- Vijay Nair is the is the kingpin connected with various
 branches of this entire liquor scam as he enjoyed a close relationship
 with the top political leaders of the party and works from the Camp
 office located at the Delhi CM's residence in Civil Lines. It has been
 submitted that petitioner is residing at Bunglow No. 2 Ata-ur-Rehman
 Lane, New Delhi, which is the official residence of Sh. Kailash Gehlot,
 Minister of Road and Transport and Revenue in Delhi Government. 29. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 the petitioner-Vijay Nair was one of the main decision-makers of the
 New Delhi Excise Policy and for this purpose, he had met various
 manufacturers, stakeholders, etc. other big investors having full
 authority on the subject. It has been submitted that petitioner-Vijay
 Nair received a kickback Rs.100 Cr from the south group as an advance BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 24 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 kickback on behalf of AAP and in exchange facilitated them in getting
 stakes in different wholesale businesses such as Indo Spirits and then
 direct big manufacturers to them to help them recover the advance
 kickback paid, apart from other undue favors awarded to the South
 Group. The part of kickbacks received was used in the Goa election
 campaign of the AAP through multiple persons and entities. 30. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 the petitioner-Vijay Nair has remained active throughout the
 formulation of Delhi Excise Policy, and in this reference has been
 made to the statement made by Sh. Suresh Menon representative from
 Secretary General, International Spirits and Wines Association of
 India, (ISWAI) and Mr. Sunil Duggal, ex-employee of Pernod Ricard.
 Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. also referred to
 the statement of co-accused Benoy Babu and Arun Pillai to show his
 role in the formulation of the Excise Policy. 31. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 the transaction of kickback was facilitated by the petitioner-Vijay
 Nair's middlemen/agents, namely Sh. Dinesh Arora and Sh. Abhishek
 Boinpally and this fact was mentioned in the statement of Dinesh
 Arora, dated October 1, 2022. 32. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 it has also surfaced in the investigation that petitioner- Vijay Nair used
 a highly discreet Signal app and directed others to communicate with
 him only on that Signal app. 33. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 the petitioner-Vijay Nair has played a prominent role in making BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 25 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 Indospirit as a wholesale distributor of PRI against kickbacks to APP
 leaders. It has been submitted that Indospirits in fact was a vehicle for
 recouping the kickbacks paid (the profit generated by the Indospirits
 wholesale business) by the South Group to Vijay Nair. 34. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 there is also material on the record that Vijay Nair received Rs. 1.50
 Cr. (1,50,00,000/-) from M/s. Tarshame Mittal without any actual
 services also a fraudulent contract was drawn up to cover up this
 transaction as an afterthought and therefore, an irresistible conclusion
 is drawn that Sh. Vijay Nair has received these funds in exchange of
 cash paid to M/s. Tarsame Mittal. 35. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 the petitioner-Vijay Nair, and the top leaders of AAP provided undue
 favors to Indo Spirits, and despite complaints against him, the license
 was granted to him. In this regard a reference has been made to the
 statement of Arava Gopi Krishna dated 26.12.2022, the then Excise
 Commissioner and Narinder Singh, Assistant Commissioner (IMFL)
 Delhi Excise dated 01.11.2022. 36. It has also been submitted that the petitioner- Vijay Nair arm twisted
 L1 licensees who denied to pay kickbacks as demanded by him and
 their operations were stopped arbitrarily, they were forced to surrender
 their L1 License in Delhi, which was then ultimately given to Shiv
 associates and Diwan Spirits where Dinesh Arora and other associates
 of Vijay Nair were partners (on paper or otherwise). It has been
 submitted that the profit of Rs.8.02 Cr. made by Shiv Associates and
 Diwan Spirits after the business was transferred to them was illegally BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 26 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 accrued to them. In this regard a reference has been made to the
 statement of Ms. Deepa Kaur Chadha, Managing Director of Adie
 Broswon Group dated 23.08.2022. It has also been alleged that the
 petitioner-Vijay Nair had disrupted the evidence and influenced the
 witnesses. 37. The Directorate of Enforcement has placed reliance on Vijay
 Madanlal Choudhary & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. 2022 SCC
 OnLine SC 929. D. FINDING AND ANALYSIS 38. The offence of money laundering has been defined in section 3 of the
 PMLA, which reads as under: 39. The 'proceeds of crime' has been defined under Section 2 (u) of PMLA,
 which reads as under: 40. Regarding proceeds of Crime and the scope and ambit of Section 3 of
 PMLA, it has been laid down in Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary (supra)
 wherein it has been held as under: 265. To put it differently, the section as it stood prior to 2019 had
 itself incorporated the expression "including", which is indicative
 of reference made to the different process or activity connected
 with the proceeds of crime. Thus, the principal provision (as also
 the Explanation) predicates that if a person is found to be directly
 or indirectly involved in any process or activity connected with the
 proceeds of crime must be held guilty of offence of money-
 laundering. If the interpretation set forth by the petitioners was to
 be accepted, it would follow that it is only upon projecting or
 claiming the property in question as untainted property, the
 offence would be complete. This would undermine the efficacy of
 the legislative intent behind Section 3 of the Act and also will be
 in disregard of the view expressed by the FATF in connection with
 the occurrence of the word "and" preceding the expression
 "projecting or claiming" therein. This Court in Pratap Singh v.
 State of Jharkhand , enunciated that the international treaties,
 covenants and conventions although may not be a part of
 municipal law, the same be referred to and followed by the Courts
 having regard to the fact that India is a party to the said treaties.
 This Court went on to observe that the Constitution of India and
 other ongoing statutes have been read consistently with the rules
 of international law. It is also observed that the Constitution of
 India and the enactments made by Parliament must necessarily be
 understood in the context of the present-day scenario and having
 regard to the international treaties and convention as our
 constitution takes note of the institutions of the world community
 which had been created. In Apparel Export Promotion Council v.
 A.K. Chopra , the Court observed that domestic Courts are under
 an obligation to give due regard to the international conventions
 and norms for construing the domestic laws, more so, when there
 is no inconsistency between them and there is a void in domestic BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 29 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 law. This view has been restated in Githa Hariharan as a, as also
 in People's Union for Civil Liberties 82, and National Legal
 Services Authority v. Union of India . 266. In the Core Recommendations of the FATF referred to above ,
 the same clearly mention that the word "and" in Section 3 of the
 2002 Act would not be fully in line with the Vienna and Palermo
 Conventions. This doubt has been ably responded and elucidated
 by India to the international body by referring to the
 jurisprudence as evolved in India to interpret the word "and" as
 "or" in the context of the legislative intent - to reckon any (every)
 process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime
 constituting offence of money-laundering. To buttress the stand
 taken by India before the FATF, reliance has been justly placed
 on reported decisions of this Court amongst other Sanjay Dutt,
 which had occasion to deal with the expression "arms and
 ammunition" occurring in Section 5 of the TADA Act. The Court
 noted that if it is to be read conjunctively because of word "and",
 the object of prohibiting unauthorised possession of the forbidden
 arms and ammunition would be easily frustrated by the simple
 device of one person carrying the forbidden arms and his
 accomplice carrying its ammunition so that neither is covered
 under Section 5 when any one of them carrying more would be so
 liable. The principle underlying this analysis by the Constitution
 Bench must apply proprio vigore to the interpretation of Section 3 of the 2002 Act. To the same end, this Court in the case of Ishwar
 Singh Bindra v. The State of U.P.165, Joint Director of Mines
 Safety and Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. Essar Power Ltd. ,
 interpreted the word "and" in the concerned legislation (s) as
 word "or" to give full effect to the legislative intent. 273. On a bare reading of Section 3 , we find no difficulty in
 encapsulating the true ambit, given the various arguments
 advanced. Thus, in the conspectus of things It must follow that the
 interpretation put forth by the respondent will further the
 purposes and objectives behind the 2002 Act and also adequately
 address the recommendations and doubts of the international
 body whilst keeping in mind the constitutional limits. it would, BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 30 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 therefore, be just to sustain the argument that the amendment of
 way or the explanation has been brought about already present
 words, only to clarity the any" and "including" which manifests
 the true meaning of the definition and clarities the mist around its
 true nature." 41. Section 45 of PMLA provides that notwithstanding anything contained
 in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, no person accused of an
 offence under this Act shall be released on bail or on his own bond
 unless--(i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to
 oppose the application for such release; and (ii) where the Public
 Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence
 and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. It is also
 pertinent to mention here that Section 45 also provides that this
 condition is in addition to the limitations imposed under Section 439 of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 or any other law for the time
 being in force on granting of bail. It is settled proposition Section 45
 PMLA do not impose an absolute restraint on the grant of bail and the
 court at this stage is to prima facie consider whether applying the
 standard of broad probabilities the material against the applicant would
 result in conviction. It is also a settled proposition that at this stage the
 Court is only required to examine the material to find out whether the
 accused was possessed of the requisite mens rea. It is also no longer
 res integra that the court is not required to record a positive finding that
 the accused had not committed the offence under the Act. It is also a
 settled proposition that the court at this stage is not required to weigh
 the evidence meticulously. The court is only required to arrive at a BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 31 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 finding on the basis of broad probabilities. It is also a settled
 proposition that the court is not required to hold a mini trial at this
 stage and is required to examine the case on the basis of broad
 probabilities. It is also to be kept in mind that while exercising the
 jurisdiction under Section 45 of PMLA, the court is required to take
 into consideration the limitations prescribed under Section 439 Cr.P.C. 42. In regard to the limitation under Section 439 Cr.P.C. in Kalyan
 Chandra Sarkar vs Rajesh Ranjhan (2004) 7 SCC 528 it has been
 held as under: 43. Before proceeding further, it is also necessary to remind the scope of
 jurisdiction to be exercised while granting bail in the economic offence.
 The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v.
 CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 439 528 held as under: 44. In Nimmagadda Prasad v. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 466, it was inter alia
 held as under: 45. The bare reading of Section 3 of PMLA would make it clear if a person
 is involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of
 crime, including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and
 projecting or claiming it as an untainted property shall be guilty of
 offence of money laundering. Therefore, it is not necessary to attribute section 3 of the PMLA that the alleged person must have acquired or in
 possession of the proceeds of the crime. If a person has actually been
 involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of
 crime, it would be sufficient to prosecute him under Section 3 of
 PMLA. The argument that the proceeds of crime have not been
 received or the proceeds of crime has not been recovered and therefore section 3 of the PMLA will not come into operation is totally fallacious
 and is liable to be rejected. It is necessary to keep in mind that such
 crimes are committed in a deep conspiracy and under the dark cover.
 An act may not be an offence at all if it is done in relation to any
 process or activity not connected with the proceeds of crime, but if
 such an act is done in relation to any process or activity connected with
 the proceeds of crime it will certainly be an offence under Section 3 of
 PMLA. The scope and ingredients of offence of money laundering
 under Section 3 of PMLA has been defined in Vijay Madanlal
 Chaudhary (supra). 46. The present case is very peculiar in nature and may not have any
 parallel factual matrix. In brief, the allegation in the predicate offence BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 34 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 was that the conspiracy was hatched between the political head and
 certain persons which included an individual allegedly representing the
 government with the manufacturer, liquor wholesaler and retailer. The
 conspiracy allegedly was hatched to introduce a new excise policy to
 benefit certain individuals who had given advance kickbacks to the
 AAP. Allegedly the prominent players if we put names to the faces are
 Mr.Manish Sisodia, the then Deputy Chief Minister and Excise
 Minister, Mr.Vijay Nair, purportedly Media Incharge of AAP, Sameer
 Mahendru. Mr.Amit Arora, Mr.Dinesh Arora, Mr.Abhishek
 Boinapally, Mr.Sharad Reddy, Mr.Butchi Babu, Mr.Binoy Babu liquor
 trader and others. This court is conscious of the fact that the
 investigation relating to the conspiracy to frame the excise policy
 allegedly with malafide intention and alleged misuse of official
 position was the subject matter of the CBI in which the charge-sheet
 has already been filed by the CBI. However, in view of the fact that
 allegedly the basic intention behind framing the new excise policy was
 to recoup the advance kickbacks and to further gain undue advantage
 from the excise policy, this Court has to take into account these facts.
 The facts are so inter-connected that it can't be evaluated in isolation. 47. Presently, this court is considering the bail application of the accused
 person namely Mr.Vijay Nair who was arrested for the offence under Section 3 of the PMLA. The allegation against Vijay Nair is that
 though he did not hold any position in the government but he was
 representing the government and was interacting with all the stack
 holders including manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers. Mr.Vijay
 Nair was allegedly the face of the government and he received BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 35 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 kickbacks from the south group. The south group was allegedly
 brought in by him for gaining the undue advantage. The allegation
 against him is also that he arm-twisted the various stack holders so as
 to remove any impediment or obstacle in the generation of proceeds of
 crime. The allegation against Manish Sisodia and Vijay Nair was also
 that M/s Indospirit was created as a special purpose vehicle to generate
 the proceeds of crime. 48. The plea raised by the defence is the ED has no material other than an
 inconsistent and unreliable statement of either co-accused or the public
 servants. The defence has raised a plea that in absence of any
 independent corroboration or material on record to substantiate such
 statements under Section 50 PMLA, the court on the basis of
 probability should record a finding that accused persons are not guilty
 of such offence. The defence, during the course of their arguments,
 have repeatedly stated that the ED has cooked up the case merely on
 the basis of whims and fancies and there are contradictions in the
 testimonies of the witnesses. The defence has assailed the testimony of
 approver Dinesh Arora and has submitted that Dinesh Arora has made
 the statement under the influence of ED and to protect himself. It is
 also the case of the defence that the public servants who are under the
 direct control of Hon'ble LG, who is the complainant in the present
 case, have made their statements only to save their skin. 49. This court is fully conscious of the fact that personal liberty is a
 sacrosanct right and pre-trial detention cannot be taken as a punitive
 measure. However, the court has to strike a balance between the
 interest of an individual and the interest of the society at large. This BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 36 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 court is also conscious of the fact that though the statements recorded
 under Section 50 PMLA are admissible in evidence but their
 evidentiary value has to be weighed at the time of trial. It is pertinent
 to mention here that learned senior counsels has argued that the ED is
 only basing its case only on the statements of the witnesses recorded
 under Section 50 of PMLA. 50. The present case arises out of an alleged conspiracy wherein the
 government framed an excise policy with a mala fide intention to
 recoup the kickbacks received in advance from certain individuals and
 to further generate the ill money from the liquor trade. There are
 witnesses and witnesses on record to show that certain outsiders were
 actively participating from the stage of drafting and formulation of the
 policy. The reference to the statements of the witnesses have been
 made during the course of recording the submission of the learned
 defence counsels and learned counsel for ED. The statements of the
 witnesses clearly indicates that some extraneous factors were working
 since the time of conceptualization, formulation and drafting of the
 excise policy. The allegation regarding generating of the emails in
 support of the excise policy also raises the red flag that everything was
 not being done in a transparent and bona fide manner. Learned senior
 counsels have invited the attention of this court towards the
 contradictions in the testimony of the witnesses. However, this court is
 fully conscious of the fact that at the stage of bail, the court cannot
 appreciate the evidence meticulously. This court at this stage, would
 restrain itself to make any comment further on this as the trial is yet to
 take place. 51. The option before this court is either to go into the meticulous
 examinations of the witnesses as being argued by the learned defence
 counsels or to take into account the statements recorded under Section
 50 of PMLA by the ED. It is correct that the case of ED is based on the
 statements under Section 50 PMLA cannot be taken as gospel truth but
 at the same, the court has to take into account the probabilities and the
 legislative intent behind enacting Section 50 PMLA. The bare perusal
 of Section 50 makes it clear that these are deemed to be judicial
 proceedings. There are consequences for making a false statement or
 not complying to the summons under Section 50 of PMLA as provided
 under Section 63 of the PMLA. There statements under Section 50
 PMLA cannot be brushed aside. 52. This court at this stage cannot go into the probative value of the
 witnesses nor can it meticulously examine those facts. The involvement
 of the third parties in the formulating and drafting of the policy
 certainly points at mens rea. The jurisdiction of bail is a discretionary
 jurisdiction. But this discretion has to be exercised on the settled
 principles in a judicial manner. The court has to bring in its judicial
 experience to arrive at a conclusion, which should be rational and
 logical. It is pertinent to mention that the accused and
 complainant/prosecution are entitled to know the reasons on the basis
 of which their bail application has been decided, but at the same time
 such reason should not be detailed in such a manner that it may
 prejudice the trial. 53. The analysis of provisions of PMLA has already been made herein
 before and has thus not been repeated herein for the sake of gravity. However, it may be reiterated that the Court at the stage of bail is
 required to confine itself to the settled principles as contained in
 Section 439 of Cr. PC and Section 45 of PMLA. It may also be stated
 that Section 3 of the PMLA has a wider reach and anybody who is
 actually involved in knowingly assisting directly or indirectly in any
 process or activity with the proceeds of crime including assisting in the
 generation of proceeds of crime would be guilty of offence of money
 laundering. 54. The material produced by the E.D. goes to show that Vijay Nair had
 actively participated in the formulation drafting and implementation of
 the new Excise Policy. There are Statements under Section 50 of
 PMLA on the record to show that the petitioner- Vijay Nair had
 indulged and actually involved knowingly assisted in the process or
 activity connected with the proceeds of crime including its acquisition,
 use, and projection thereof as untainted property. It is pertinent to
 mention here that it is not disputed that petitioner- Vijay Nair is
 residing in a Bungalow allotted to a senior minister of the Government
 of NCTD of Delhi. This fact itself shows his prominence in the
 government. 55. The witnesses after witnesses have stated in their statements under
 Section 50 of PMLA that Vijay Nair had been interacting with them
 regarding the new excise policy with full authority. The Court at this
 stage, just cannot ignore the statement of such witnesses under Section
 50 of PMLA. The participation or role of Vijay Nair can be assessed
 from the statement of Mr. Suresh Menon representative of the
 Secretary General, International Spirits and Wines Association of BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 39 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 India, (ISWAI) dated 05.12.20222 wherein it was stated that the
 petitioner expressed that the foreign players are very quiet while the
 Indian players are approaching and have offered funding to the party in
 lieu of maintaining status quo. The statement of Suresh Menon clearly
 indicates that the intention of the petitioner- Vijay Nair was mala fide
 since inception and he had the full authority to conceptualize the
 drafting and execution of the excise policy. 56. Mr. Sunil Duggal, ex-employee of Pernod Ricard in his statement dated
 02.12.2022 also stated that petitioner Vijay Nair in one of the meeting
 has stated that the local manufacturers have offered to pay large
 amounts to the AAP leaders for favorable Excise Policy but there was
 no input or support from ISWAI. The reference can also be made to
 the statement of co-accused Benoy Babu dated 13.11.2022 whereby he
 stated that Vijay Nair and AAP functionary is meeting industry people
 and he wants to meet the manufacturers/wholesalers as well. 57. Similarly, Amandeep Dhall in his statement dated 29.10.2022 who
 stated that on 26.03.2021, he got a call from Sh Vijay Nair, who
 introduced himself as heading the media relations for the Govt. of
 Delhi/AAP. He told that he would like to meet the leading suppliers-
 Indian as well as international companies on an urgent basis. It was
 stated that at the instance of Vijay Nair a meeting was organized at
 Oberoi Maidens in which the senior officers/officials of Pernod Ricard
 attended the meeting. 58. The reference can also be made on the statement of Arun Pillai dated
 08.12.2022 wherein he specifically stated that the petitioner-Vijay Nair
 used to ask him about the Excise Policy and provisions of different BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 40 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 states. He stated that though Vijay Nair used to ask him questions about
 these policies but mostly he was fixed on a certain format wherein
 there were to be private wholesale and retail. He also stated that
 petitioner Vijay Nair was also working with bigger players in Delhi
 Liquor business such as Aman Dhall of Brindco for the formulation of
 the policy. 59. Sh. Dinesh Arora also in his statement dated 01.10.2022 specifically
 stated that the Petitioner-Vijay Nair got into an arrangement with Arun
 Pillai, Abhishek Boinpally, and Buchi Babu (who were the
 representatives of South Group led by K Kavitha, M.S. and Sarath
 Reddy). The south group gave Rs. 100 Cr (approx.) to Vijay Nair in
 advance and they were supposed to recoup this money from the 3
 major wholesalers as mentioned above. 60. There are also statements on the record that how this kickback was
 used in Goa elections. The conspiracy in the present case as has also
 been stated above is peculiar in nature where the excise policy was
 allegedly framed with mala fide intention. There are serious allegations
 regarding tempering excise policy only with the intention to give undue
 benefits/favors to certain people in particular. In such type of cases, it
 is almost impossible to have direct evidence. The Court at the stage of
 granting bail has only the material collected by the investigating
 agency. The opinion to be formed at this stage is on the basis of such
 material. The Bar under Section 45 of PMLA clearly stipulates that bail
 can only be granted if the Court is of the opinion that the petitioner is
 not guilty of such offence. 61. Learned Trial Court inter-alia held that Vijay Nair is, alleged to be BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 41 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 associated with generation and laundering of total proceeds of crime
 amounting to around Rs. 615 crores, including the kickback amount of
 Rs. 100 crores, Rs.192 crores being profit of M/s Indospirit around Rs.
 200 crores being profit of A-12 company and the above excess credit
 notes and outstanding amount etc. 62. Learned Trial Court while considering the evidence on record observed
 that Vijay Nair had in fact emerged as the string holder of the entire
 criminal conspiracy hatched by the accused persons. The Court further
 observed that though it is not disputed that he was the Media and
 Communication incharge of AAP but at the same time it was revealed
 during the investigation that he was actually representing the AAP and
 GNCTD in different meetings that took place with the stakeholders in
 liquor business at different places. This was done to the extent that he has
 also allegedly represented himself as an OSD in the Excise Department
 of GNCTD and no one except him officially participated in these
 meetings. 63. Learned Trial court further observed that the evidence also suggests that
 the said meetings were in fact called by the Applicant Vijay Nair. He was
 instrumental at the stage of formulation of the policy itself with full
 authority and rights. He was further involved in meetings with
 representatives of big manufacturers i.e. M/S Pernod Ricard and M/S
 Diago etc., not only at the formulation stage of policy, but even in
 making these companies to appoint their wholesalers as per his choice. 64. The learned Trial Court further observed that Vijay Nair further
 undertook the task of collection and delivery of kickback amount.
 Learned court further inter alia held that Since, the kickback amount is BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 42 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 stated to have been paid through hawala channels and in cash, the best
 possible evidence to this effect has been collected and brought on record
 by the investigating agency and nothing has been intentionally withheld
 or concealed from the court and the evidence brought on record includes
 some documentary evidence in the form of call detail records of the
 persons involved in transmission of the above kickback amount through
 the approver. 65. It was also observed that oral and documentary evidence suggests that he
 was also in frequent touch with various stakeholders of liquor business
 through different secured modes of communication, including the Signal
 App, and · their use of the said modes and App was only in pursuance to
 their attempt of not leaving any trail of their misdeeds. Some evidence is
 also alleged to have been collected to show that certain amounts, though
 meagre, out of the above kickbacks were spent by him towards election
 expenses in Goa and further allegations of tampering with evidence of
 commission of the above offences are also there on record by destruction
 of his mobile phones used during the relevant period. 66. Learned Trial court rejected the contention raised by Learned Senior
 Counsel for accused regarding reliance upon the judgments in cases
 Sanjay Paridey (Supra) and M/S Prakash Industries (Supra) and the same
 are held not applicable qua this accused as he had a prime and lead role
 in commission of the scheduled offences case of CBI as per the evidence
 collected in the present case and was also arrested in the said case.
 Learned Trial Court inter alia held that the fact that he stands released on
 bail in the said of CBI is of no consequence as his bail in this case is to
 be decided in light of the legal and factual position in this case of the BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 43 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 PMLA and especially keeping in mind the admissibility of statements
 made U/S 50 of the PMLA by the accused and witnesses and the twin
 conditions U/S 45 of the said Act . The judgments in cases Navendu
 Babbar (Supra) and Ratul Puri (Supra) being relied upon on behalf of the
 applicant were also found to be of no help as no parity can be drawn
 between the facts of the above cases and of the present one as Navendu
 Babbar (Supra) was not a case under the PMLA and in the other case of
 Ratul Puri (Supra) the accused was not named in the scheduled offences
 case and even in the ED case he was prosecuted in the sixth
 supplementary complaint only and none of the other accused was in
 custody in the ED case. 67. As discussed above, the accused person in the present case acting in
 furtherance of the conspiracy circumvented the policy and got framed the
 policy in such a manner to continuously generate and channel illegal
 funds. The allegations are that deliberate loopholes were left to facilitate
 illegal and criminal activities. It has also come on the record that accused
 Vijay Nair was a close associate of Chief Minister, GNCT of Delhi and
 Sh. Manish Sisodia, Deputy Chief Minister. The investigation has further
 revealed that Vijay Nair arranged a video call through face time between
 Chief Minister, Government of NCT of Delhi and Sameer Mahendru
 where Chief Minister said that Vijay Nair is his boy and they should trust
 him. 68. The allegations are extremely serious in nature. The alleged conspiracy
 has been well spun and there are prima facie credible materials on
 record. This Court also does not find any illegality or perversity in the
 order of learned Trial Court. Learned Special Judge has correctly gone BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 44 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27 through the entire material and has given an opinion which seems to be
 in accordance with law. There is no reason to interfere in the bail order
 dated 16.02.2023. 69. I consider that in view of the seriousness and gravity of the case and the
 reasoned order of learned Trial Court, this Court is not able to persuade
 itself to form an opinion that the petitioner is not guilty of such an
 offence. Thus, the present bail application stands rejected. DINESH KUMAR SHARMA, J
 JULY 03, 2023
 Pallavi BAIL APPLN. 1178/2023 Page 45 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:53:27