1. Accused Mohd. Zahid is facing trial upon the allegations
 that he was owner of the inspected premises at the time of
 inspection and he allowed/permitted/abetted his
 tenant/user/co-accused Zahid (since not arrested) to
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: Brief Facts 2. On 14.02.2019, at about 13.08 pm, an inspection was
 conducted by the inspection team of BSES Yamuna Power
 Limited (hereinafter referred as complainant company)
 headed by Sh. R.B. Yadav (Assistant Manager) in the
 residential premises of accused i.e. at in front of H.No.951-
 A, Gali No.39, Jafrabad, Pole No.YVR-X-683,
 Delhi-110053. 3. At the time of inspection, no electricity meter was found
 installed at the site and the user/tenant Zahid (since not
 arrested) was found indulging in direct theft of electricity
 with the help of single core yellow colour wire which was
 found connected from Distribution Box of BSES YPL. 4. At the time of inspection, accused Mohd. Zahid S/o Mohd. Sabir was present at the spot and total connected load was
 found to be 5.878 KW which was being used for
 commercial purposes i.e. jeans stitching work.
 Videographer Sh. Jagdeep captured videography of
 inspection proceeding. Inspection documents i.e.
 Inspection Report, Load Report and Seizure Memo were
 prepared at the spot. Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 5. On the basis of connected load, applicable tariff and
 following the guidelines of DERC, the complainant
 company assessed the demand to the tune of Rs.4,12,452/-
 Accordingly, a theft bill was raised and sent to the accused
 but he did not make payment of the theft bill. 6. On failure to pay the theft bill amount, complainant
 company through its Authorized Officer lodged a
 complaint U/s 135 Electricity Act with SHO, PS Jafrabad
 for registration of FIR against the accused. Thereafter, FIR
 was registered and investigation of the case was marked to
 HC Jitender Singh, the IO of the case. 7. After completion of investigation, present charge-sheet
 was filed against the accused Mohd. Zahid S/o Mohd.
 Sabir being owner of the inspected premises U/s 135 r/w Section 150 of Electricity Act, 2003. Notice 8. On 08.05.2025, notice U/s 251 Cr.P.C for commission of
 offence punishable under Section 135 r/w Section 150 of
 the Act was given to accused. He did not plead guilty and
 claimed trial. Prosecution Evidence 9. In order to substantiate its allegations, the prosecution
 examined following three witnesses. 10. PW1 HC Jitender Singh, the IO of the case. He deposed
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: Thereafter, he made endorsement Ex.PW1/A on the
 complaint and got registered present FIR No.219/2019. He
 proved the FIR asEx.PW1/B, site plan as Ex.PW1/C,
 notice U/s 41A Cr.P.C . given to accused as Ex.PW1/D and
 interrogation report as Ex.PW1/E. Accused produced copy
 of his Adhar Card which is Ex.PW1/F. PW1/IO also
 deposed that during investigation it was revealed that at the
 time of inspection, one person namely Zahid was tenant in
 the inspected premises and he has left the inspected
 premises and went to an unknown place. He bound down
 the accused Mohd. Zahid vide Pabandinama Ex.PW1/G. 11. PW2 Sh. R.B. Yadav (Assistant Manager) is the
 complainant who was heading the inspection team. He
 proved the CD of videography of the inspection
 proceedings as Ex.PW2/A, inspection report as
 Ex.PW2/B, load report as Ex.PW2/C, seizure memo
 Ex.PW2/D and theft bill as Ex.PW2/E. He also proved the
 complaint as Ex.PW2/F lodged by him. He has also
 identified the case property i.e. illegal wire having length
 of approx 8 meters as Ex.P1 through which theft of
 electricity was being committed by the accused. 12. PW3 Sh. Jagdeep is the videographer who, on the
 instruction of team leader Sh. R.B. Yadav, captured
 videography of the inspection proceedings. He also proved
 the video contained in the CD as Ex.PW2/A and
 Certificate U/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW3/A.
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 13. All incriminating evidence which has come on record,

 were put to the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C. Accused
 denied all material allegations and stated that he is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case. He
 has not committed any theft of electricity. However,
 accused did not lead any Defence Evidence. Arguments 14. Arguments heard from the side of Ld. Addl. PP for the

 State as well as Ld. Counsel for accused. 15. Ld. Addl. PP submitted that accused was found indulged in

 direct theft of electricity and no electricity meter was
 found installed at his premises. It is further submitted that
 accused Mohd. Zahid S/o Sabir was owner of the inspected
 premises at the time of inspection and he
 allowed/permitted/abetted his tenant/user/co-accused
 Zahid (since not arrested) to commit direct theft of
 electricity. He further submitted that prosecution has
 proved allegations against the accused beyond reasonable
 doubt through the evidence of prosecution witnesses. He
 also emphasized that inspection was conducted as per
 Rules and applicable Regulations. Thus, it is prayed that
 accused may be convicted. 16. On the other hand, Ld. Defence Counsel submitted that

 accused is innocent and he has been falsely implicated in
 this case. It was also submitted that accused has not
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: Analysis 17.At the outset, it would be appropriate to reproduce the
 definition of 'consumer'. The relevant provision of Section
 2 (15) of the Act is produced as under:- 18.In this case, accused Mohd. Zahid S/o Sabir was found to
 be owner of the inspected premises and his tenant/co-
 accused Zahid (since not arrested) was found to be user of
 electricity at the relevant time. Perusal of Section 2 (15) of
 the Act shows that both the user and the owner of the
 premises/registered consumer are covered under the
 definition of the 'consumer' and thus, they are liable for
 punishment if illegal abstraction of energy is found at the
 premises of accused. In this regard, reliance is placed on
 judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court reported as Lokesh Chandela vs State of NCT & Ors. (Crl . Appeal
 No.479/2011). Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 19. Before dealing with the factual aspects of the present case,

 it is deemed appropriate to firstly specify and discuss the
 relevant provisions of the Act which are required to be
 gone into for appropriate disposal of the case. The present
 case pertains to Section 135 r/w Section 150 of the Act.
 The provision of Sections 135 & 150 of the Electricity Act
 are reproduced as under: (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
 section (1) of section 135 , sub-section (1) of section
 136 , section 137 and section 138 , the license or
 certificate of competency or permit or such other
 authorization issued under the rules made or deemed
 to have been made under this Act to any person who
 acting as an electrical contractor, supervisor or
 worker abets the commission of an offence
 punishable under sub-section (1) of section 135 , sub-
 section (1) of section 136 , section 137 , or section
 138 , on his conviction for such abetment, may also
 be cancelled by the licensing authority: 20. There is a presumption mentioned in the third proviso of Section 135(1) of the Electricity Act, 2003 which reads as
 follows:- 21.Dishonest intention has not been defined in Electricity Act . Section 24 IPC defines 'dishonestly' and holds that
 Whoever does anything with the intention of causing
 wrongful gain to one person or wrongful loss to another
 person, is said to do that thing "dishonestly". 22.As per prosecution case, at the time of inspection, no
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: Accused Mohd. Zahid being owner of inspected premises
 let/permitted/allowed the user/tenant/co-accused Zahid
 (since not arrested) to commit direct theft of electricity.
 Thus, the onus was on the prosecution to prove these
 allegations against the accused persons beyond reasonable
 doubt. 23. Under Electricity Act ' Regulations are framed by the Delhi

 Electricity Regularity Commission. Regulation 60 to 63 deals with theft of electricity. Regulation 60 empowers
 authorized Officer to inspect premises. Under Regulation
 61 Authorized Officer makes an Inspection Report, Regulation 62 lays down procedure ti report a case of theft
 and then under Regulation 63 there is assessment of theft
 bill. 24. Regulations 60-63 of DERC are as under:- Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: (6) The inspection report shall form the basis for further
 action as per the provisions contained in Regulations. 62. Procedure for prosecution for Theft of Electricity: - (1)
 The prosecution for theft of electricity under section 135 of the Act shall be initiated only in the cases where
 dishonest intention is evident from the relevant facts,
 records and other evidence of the case. (2) In case sufficient evidence is found to establish theft of
 electricity, the Authorized officer under sub-section (2) of Section 135 of the Act shall seize and seal all material
 evidence including wires/cables, meter, service line etc.,
 from the premises under a seizure Memo. (3) The supply of the consumer shall be disconnected
 immediately on detection of theft only by such officer of
 the Licensee or supplier as authorised for the purpose by
 the Commission, under sub-section (1A) of Section 135 of the Act: Provided that such officer shall lodge a
 complaint in writing in Police Station having jurisdiction
 over the site of occurrence of the offence within twenty-
 four hours from time of such disconnection: Provided
 further that such officer shall also send to the consumer a
 copy of complaint lodged in Police Station, copy of
 speaking order under Regulation 64 along with a copy of
 videography of inspection within 2 (two) days of such
 disconnection. (4) No case for theft shall be booked only on account of
 missing of the seals on the meter or on account of
 breakage of glass window of the meter, unless dishonest
 intention is corroborated by consumption pattern of
 consumer or any other evidence. (5) Interference with the accurate registration of energy
 consumed by resorting to external methods involving
 remote control, high voltage injection etc., committed by
 Digitally
 signed by
 the consumer or his employee or any other person acting
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 63. Assessment Bill for theft of electricity: - 1) The
 Assessing officer shall assess the energy for theft of
 electricity as notified in the Appendix I to the Regulations. (2) The period of assessment for theft of electricity shall
 be for a period of 12 (twelve) months preceding the date
 of detection of theft of electricity or the exact period of
 theft if determined, whichever is less: Provided further
 that period of theft of electricity shall be assessed based
 on the following factors: - 25. As per prosecution case, at the time of inspection, no

 electricity meter was found installed in the inspected
 premises and co-accused Zahid who was alleged to be
 tenant (of accused Mohd. Zahid) as well as user of the
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 26. PW2 Sh. R.B. Yadav (Assistant Manager of the
 complainant company) and PW3 Sh. Jagdeep
 (Videographer) are prime witnesses of this case being
 members of inspection team and PW2 was also heading
 the inspection team. PW2 corroborated the allegations
 made in the complaint (Ex.PW2/F) and deposed that at the
 time of inspection, no electricity meter was found installed
 at the inspected premises and that accused was found
 indulged in direct theft of electricity with the help of
 yellow colour wire which was found connected from
 Distribution Box of BSES. PW2 further deposed that at the
 time of inspection, accused was present at the spot,
 however, he left the spot during inspection after locking
 the inspected premises. Accused has not specifically
 rebutted these facts during cross-examination of PW2 and
 neither any evidence has been produced that he was not the
 owner of the inspected premises at the time of inspection. 27. PW2 further deposed that at the time of inspection total

 connected load was found to be 5.878 KW which was
 being used for commercial purposes i.e. jeans stitching
 work and necessary videography of the inspection
 proceedings was conducted by PW2 Sh. Jagdeep. Accused
 has not rebutted all these facts in the cross-examination of
 PW2. Furthermore, to the query of Ld. Counsel, PW2 in
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 28. PW2 also deposed that on his instruction, PW3 Sh. Jagdeep (videographer) conducted the videography of the
 Inspection Proceedings in which the commission of theft
 of electricity at the inspected premises was recorded. PW2
 was duly cross-examined by Ld. Counsel for accused was
 unable to bring out any contradiction in his testimony. Ld.
 Counsel for accused has not disputed the inspection and
 has merely put suggestions to witness that at the time of
 inspection no theft of electricity was detected at the
 premises of the accused which were categorically denied
 by the witness. Accused has not disputed the load
 mentioned in the load report. 29. As per load report, certain electrical appliances were found

 installed at the inspected premises. In the load report,
 calculation of the load has been mentioned and accused
 person has not disputed the calculation of the load as
 mentioned in the load report. Accused has not rendered
 any alternative explanation. Accused Mohd. Zahid claimed
 himself to be owner/landlord of the inspected premises at
 the time of inspection. Tenant Zahid is stated to be the user
 of the electricity at the relevant time. So it is evident that
 accused Mohd. Zahid knew that co-accused/tenant/user of
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: Zahid is presumed to be correct that Zahid was his tenant
 and was using electricity in the inspected premises) or
 allowed the co-accused to use inspected premises which
 shows malafide intention of the accused to commit direct
 theft of electricity causing loss to exchequer. 30. Nothing contradictory emerged in the testimony of
 prosecution witnesses during cross-examination and the
 testimony of witnesses has been consistent and thus, the
 factum of inspection, preparation of documents as well as
 presence of the accused at the spot and videography of
 inspection proceedings done by videographer stands
 proved. 31.It is further submitted on behalf of the accused that
 prosecution case is highly doubtful as no public witness
 was joined during the inspection of the premises. It is clear
 from the prosecution's version that the accused was found
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire
 and these facts have been well proved by PW2. 32. During evidence, CD (Ex.PW2/A) containing videography

 of the inspection proceedings was played before the court
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 33. Nothing has been brought on record to indicate that
 officials of complainant company had any animosity with
 the accused and therefore, under these circumstances, non-
 joining of public witness does not affect the authenticity of
 the prosecution case. In this regard, this Court is supported
 with the case law reported as 'Punjab State Electricity Board
 & Ors vs Ashwani Kumar , 2010 (7) SCC 569'. In this case,
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has made the following
 observations: 34. In the case titled as 'Sushil Sharma vs BSES Rajdhani Power

 Ltd. ' in Crl. Appeal No.1060/10 decided on 22.12.2010,
 the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held that non-
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 35. In addition, nothing incriminating has come on record to

 show that the inspection was not conducted as per the
 procedure prescribed under the DERC Regulations
 pertaining to the theft of electricity. There is not even a
 suggestion in the cross examination of witnesses that there
 is any procedural lapse or impropriety and the guidelines
 as prescribed have not been followed. 36.Once the prosecution successfully establishes the charges
 against the accused regarding theft of electricity then in
 view of the statutory presumption mentioned in the third
 proviso of section 135 (1) of the Act it is to be presumed
 that accused has committed direct theft of electricity if
 accused fails to bring some evidence on record to rebut the
 presumption. Thus, in view of the proviso of section 135
 (1) of the Act, after the prosecution establishes the charges
 of electricity theft against the accused then under the
 aforesaid provisions of law, the accused is legally bound to
 bring some material on record to rebut the statutory
 presumption. Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 37. Coming to the Presumption as envisaged U/s 135 of Electricity Act , it is to be noted that it uses the word "shall
 presume". Regarding the purport of the said expression, it
 has been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 Neeraj Dutt Vs. State, SLP(Crl.) No. 6497/2020 as under: - 38. Hon'ble Supreme Court, in case reported as '2001 (6) SCC

 16 titled as Hiten P. Dalal vs Bratindranath Banerjee ', has
 laid down the law related to the rebuttal of statutory
 presumption. Relevant portion of the para no.16 is
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 39.In view of the settled law, now it is to be seen if the
 accused has taken any defence to rebut the aforesaid
 statutory presumption. Accused did not lead any defence
 evidence nor he has brought anything on record which
 could suggest that accused was drawing electricity through
 authorized means or electricity meter. Moreover, it is
 admitted position of fact that there was no electricity meter
 for inspected premises. As per load report, certain electric
 appliances were found in the inspected premises and
 accused has not explained as to from where he was
 drawing electricity to run those appliances. Also, it is not
 the case of the accused that there was any Genset and he
 was drawing energy from the same. 40. Furthermore, it is clear from the evidence of PW2 that in

 regard to the electricity theft, the complainant company
 had raised a bill of Rs.4,12,452/- (Ex.PW2/E) against the
 accused and during the course of arguments, Ld. Counsel
 for accused submitted that that accused has settled the
 matter qua civil liability and also deposited the settlement
 amount and NOC has also been issued. In case, the
 officials of the complainant company would not have
 carried out the inspection as deposed by prosecution
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: 41.Notwithstanding, if the accused was not indulged in direct
 theft of electricity or he was using the electricity through
 legal sources then the easiest way to rebut the statutory
 presumption for the accused was to prove on record that at
 the time of inspection, he was drawing electricity through
 his own electricity meter. However, accused has not
 brought anything on record to disprove the allegations
 brought on record by the prosecution. In view of these
 discussions, it is held that accused has failed to rebut the
 statutory presumption. 42. In this regard, this court is supported by the judgment of

 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi reported as Mukesh Rastogi vs
 North Delhi Power Limited' 2007 (99) DRJ108. The
 observations made by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi are
 reproduced as under:- 43. Accused did not lead any defence evidence. If the tenant

 i.e. Zahid was not indulged in direct theft of electricity or
 that he was using the electricity through any legal means,
 then the accused Mohd. Zahid, who claimed himself to be
 landlord of the inspected premises, was liable to rebut the
 statutory presumption by disproving the allegations made
 in the complaint by leading relevant defence evidence. It is
 admitted position of fact that inspected premises was
 belonging to accused Mohd. Zahid at the relevant time,
 which was let out to co-accused Zahid (not traceable).
 Accused has not brought any material on record or lead
 any evidence to disprove the prosecution case. 44. In view of aforesaid discussions, it is held that the
 prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that
 user/tenant/co-accused Zahid (since not arrested)
 dishonestly indulged in direct theft of electricity through
 illegal wire. It is also proved on record that accused Mohd.
 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: Accordingly, Mohd. Zahid S/o Mohd. Sabir is convicted
 for the offence punishable U/s 135 r/w Section 150 of the
 Electricity Act 2003. File be taken up again as and when
 user/co-accused Zahid is arrested.
Let convict be heard on quantum of sentence.
Announced in the Open Court on 31.01.2025. (Ashish Rastogi)
 Addl. Sessions Judge-05 (Electricity)
 East/Karkardooma Courts/Delhi

 Digitally
 signed by
 Ashish
Ashish Rastogi
Rastogi Date: