1. This Criminal Original Petition is filed under Section 482 of Cr.PC to call for

 the records in CC.No.9635 of 2014, on the file of the Additional Chief

 Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai and to adjourn sine die the

 impugned proceedings till transfer of the same to the Special Court,
http://www.judis.nic.in 2 constituted for the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), namely, the

 Principal Sessions Court, for being tried along with CC.No.4 of 2018 on its

 file. 2. The facts of the case are that based on the complaint received from one

 V.Sreedharan, General Manager and Zonal Head, Bank of Baroda, Zonal

 Office, Chennai, the Respondent had registered a case in No.RC4(E)/2013/

 CBI/BS&FC/BLR, on 26.07.2013, against the Petitioner/A1, Managing

 Director, M/s.Subhiksha Trading Services Limited, K.P.Vairavan/A2, the then

 AGM and Branch Head, Bank of Baroda, Corporate Financial Services

 Branch, Chennai, M/s.Subhiksha Trading Services Limited/A3, Registered

 Office at No.146, 2nd Floor, R.K.Mutt Road, Mandaveli, Chennai-28 and other

 unknown others, for the offences under Sections 120B read with 420 of IPC and Sections 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act,

 1988 . 3. Thereafter, based on the above said First Information Report, dated

 26.07.2013, the charge sheet in CC.No.9635 of 2014 against the

 Petitioner/A1 and M/s.Subhiksha Trading Services Limited/A2, represented

 by A1, for the offence under Section 420 of IPC was filed before the

 Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai. The allegations

 against the Petitioner/A1 are that during 2007-2008, the Petitioner/A1 in

 collusion with one K.P.Vairavan, the then Assistant General Manager, Bank

 of baroda, Corporate Financial Services Branch, Chennai and others got

 sanctioned a term loan of Rs.50 crores from the Bank of Baroda, Corporate

 Financial Services Branch, Chennai, for the purpose of implementation of the
http://www.judis.nic.in 3 expansion programme of the Company and a CC Limit of Rs.25 crores

 towards take over of its existing CC Limit with the Axis Bank Limited,

 Chennai and did not utilize the funds for the purpose for which it was

 sanctioned and disbursed and diverted the funds for personal benefits and

 through accounts of several benami Companies floated by him, resulting in a

 wrongful loss of Rs.77.39 crores to the Bank of Baroda, as on 31.03.2009.

 By the aforesaid acts, the Petitioner/A1 and A2 Company, represented by A1

 had committed the offence under Section 420 of IPC, to take cognizance of

 the offence and try the accused, in accordance with law. It is under these

 circumstances that this Criminal Original Petition has been filed, seeking the

 relief as stated above. 4. This court heard the learned counsel on either side. 5. The learned counsel for the Petitioner would contend that the impugned

 proceedings in CC.No.9635 of 2014 is in respect of the schedule offence and

 is pending on the file of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

 Chennai. He would further submit that in respect of the schedule offence,

 proceedings have been initiated by the Enforcement Directorate in

 ECIR/CEZO/8/2014 and that the proceedings has culminated into a

 complaint in CC.No.4 of 2018, pending on the file of the Principal Sessions

 Court, being the Special Court under Section 43(1) of the Prevention of

 Money Laundering Act. He would submit that the provisions of Section

 44(1)(a) of the PMLA provide that any of offence under Section 4 of PMLA

 and any schedule offence connected to the said offence shall be triable by

 the Special Court, having jurisdiction over the area where the PMLA offence
http://www.judis.nic.in 4 is committed and that Section 71 of PMLA also provides that the said Act will

 have overriding effect and as such, the jurisdiction of Additional Chief

 Metropolitan Magistrate stands ousted in respect of the connected schedule

 offence, to which the impugned proceedings related. 6. The learned counsel for the Petitioner would further submit that on and from

 20.04.2018, when the Special Court being the Principal Sessions Court,

 Chennai took cognizance of CC.No.4 of 2017, only that Court can try the

 connected Schedule offence being the offence covered in the impugned

 charge sheet. He would submit that the Additional Chief Metropolitan

 Magistrate, on coming to know of taking cognizance of CC.No.4 of 2018 by

 the Special Court, is bound to adjourn sine die the proceedings to await

 receipt of application from the 2nd Respondent/ED for transfer of

 proceedings under Section 44(i)(c) of PMLA and that in such circumstances,

 the discharge petition filed by the Petitioner should be heard by the Court of

 competent jurisdiction, which is only the Special Court, where CC.No.4 of

 2018 for the offence under Section 4 of PMLA is pending. He would further

 submit that after the judgement of the Honourable Supreme Court reported in

 2018 11 SCC 1 ( Nikesh Tarachand Shah Vs. Union of India ), the Bombay

 High Court, in Bail Application No.248 of 2018, dated 04.05.2018, has held

 that the trial of the scheduled offence and the trial of the complaint under the

 PMLA should be tried together. He would further submit that the Trial Court

 has posted the discharge petition for orders, without hearing the Petitioner

 and would seek an opportunity to put forth his submissions. 7. Per contra, the learned Special Public Prosecutor for CBI, while denying the
http://www.judis.nic.in 5 averments made in the affidavit filed in support of this Criminal Original

 Petition, would contend that the case for the predicate offence is a case

 based on the final report filed by the Police and that the case of the 2nd

 Respondent is to be tried as a private complaint procedure and that though

 as per Section 44(1)(c) of PMLA, the Court, which has taken cognizance of

 the scheduled offence, is different from that of the Special Court, trying the

 offence under the PMLA, the Court, trying the case, shall commit the case to

 the Special Court on application from the Authorised Authority. However,

 there is no bar to continue with the trial and the Act is clear that the Special

 Court can proceed to deal with the case from the stage at which it is

 committed. He would further submit that mere filing of the complaint by the

 Authorised Authority before the Special Court will not preclude the Court,

 trying the case for the offence under schedule offence to proceed with the

 trial. He would further submit that cases with similar prayer was earlier

 considered by this Court, in a batch of Criminal Original Petitions in

 Crl.OP.Nos.25157 to 25168 of 2016 and this Court, by order dated,

 14.06.2017, had rejected the prayer, seeking joint trial and that the

 impugned proceedings initiated by CBI is pending since 2014, whereas the

 proceedings of ED under the PMLA has been initiated much later and

 thereby, the prayer cannot be sustained till an application under Section

 44(1)(c) of the Act is filed by the Enforcement Directorate and this Criminal

 Original Petition is liable to be dismissed, as not maintainable. 8. The learned counsel for the 2nd Respondent would submit that the

 Enforcement Directorate is taking steps for filing necessary application
http://www.judis.nic.in 6 before the learned Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore and that

 the Act is clear that it is only the Authority who can file the application and

 such an option is not provided to the accused, who is facing trial. Further,

 the Act does not bar the Court, trying the predicate/ scheduled offences to

 stall further proceedings, whereas it gives power to the Special Court to deal

 it with from the stage at which it is committed and when such being so, the

 Petitioner cannot claim it as a matter of right. She would once again reiterate

 that steps are being taken by the 2nd Respondent to file an application under Section 44(1)(c) of the Act, before the concerned Court. 9. I have given my careful and anxious consideration to the rival contentions put

 forward by either side and thoroughly scanned through the entire materials. 10. At the outset, the decisions relied on by the learned counsel for the

 Petitioner are in respect of striking down Section 45(1) of the PMLA, as

 constitutional, in so far as it imposes two further conditions for releasing on

 bail and relating to consideration of bail applications without application of

 twin conditions contained in Section 45 of the Act. In the said decisions, no

 finding has been rendered in respect of trying of cases for offences under the

 predicate/ scheduled offences and the complaint under the PMLA together.

 Hence, the said decisions cannot be made applicable for deciding the case

 on hand. 11. Further, on a scrutiny of the materials, it is seen that the Petitioner was

 charged for the offence under Section 420 of IPC, for having committed

 serious bank frauds and thereby, causing a wrongful loss to the Bank of

 Baroda to the tune of several crores. The 1st Respondent/CBI has
http://www.judis.nic.in 7 investigated the matter and finally laid a charge sheet as against the

 Petitioner/A1 and A2 Company represented by A1 for the offences under Section 420 of IPC. The Petitioner/A1 has also filed a discharge petition in

 Crl.MP.No.752 of 2016, before the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

 Egmore, Chennai. 12. The Petitioner has sought to adjourn sine dine till the transfer of the

 impugned proceedings in CC.No.9635 of 2014 on the file of the Additional

 Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai, to the Special Court,

 mainly on the ground that the 2nd Respondent, namely, the Directorate of

 Enforcement, has also filed a private complaint before the Special Court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 , namely, Principal Sessions

 Judge at Chennai, which is constituted for trying the cases contemplated

 under the PMLA and the same has also been taken cognizance by the

 Special Court for the aforesaid offences in CC.No.4 of 2018 under the PMLA

 and thereby, the Special Court constituted for the said Act, the Principal

 Sessions Judge, Chennai, which is the Special Court, alone is competent to

 try the impugned proceedings in CC.No.9635 of 2014 and he would seek for

 transfer of the impugned proceedings to the said Special Court to be tried

 along with CC.No.4 of 2018. 13. Chapter VII of the PMLA deals with the designation of Special Courts,

 offences triable by the Special Court and the manner in which trials are to be

 conducted by the Special Court. Section 44 deals with the offences triable by

 Special Courts. 14. At this juncture, before adverting to the discussion further, it is relevant and
http://www.judis.nic.in 8 necessary to refer to Section 44 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

 2002, as under:- 15. A reading of the Section 44 of the PMLA, makes it clear that only the

 offences punishable under the said Act and connected schedule offences

 alone are to be tried by the Special Court constituted for the said Act. The

 impugned proceedings, which are sought to be transferred from the CBI

 Court by the Petitioner/A1, are not under the PMLA, but under the provisions

 of IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , which are pending before

 the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai. 16. Admittedly, the Petitioner was prosecuted by the 1st Respondent/CBI for

 having committed serious bank frauds to the tune of Rs.77.39 crores and

 accordingly, the charge sheet was filed under the provisions of IPC , namely, Section 420 of IPC. Mere filing of the private complaint to proceed against

 the Petitioner for the same serious bank frauds, on the basis of the materials

 collected by the 1st Respondent/CBI will not entitle the Petitioner to seek

 transfer the impugned proceedings initiated by the 1st Respondent/CBI to

 the Special Court constituted for the said Act to be tried jointly. 17. Factually, the impugned proceedings is of the year 2014 and the
http://www.judis.nic.in 10 proceedings before the Special Court is of the year 2018. In respect of the

 impugned proceedings, the investigation has already been completed by the

 CBI even in the year 2014 itself and taken up in CC.No.9635 of 2014. The

 Petitioner has been questioned and it is at the stage of framing charges and

 the discharge petition filed by the Petitioner is pending from the year 2016. 18. Section 44(1)(c) of the PMLA, gives the option only to the Authority

 Authorised, to file the complaint under the Act and to file an application,

 seeking to commit the case, relating to the schedule offence to the Principal

 Court and the Special Court shall, in receipt of such case, proceed to deal

 with it from the stage at which it is committed. Proceedings for the offence

 under the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ), for the predicate offences and

 proceedings under the PMLA are independent. There is no bar for

 proceeding with trial of the penal offences and further on any application

 being filed, the Special Court has got power to deal with it from the stage at

 which it is committed. 19. As analysed above, merely because the private complaint was filed by the

 2nd respondent before the Special Court with regard to money laundering, it

 cannot be stated that the case investigated by the 1st Respondent/CBI with

 regard to the aforesaid crime also has to be tried by the Special Court

 constituted under the Act, 2002. If a view to try both the proceedings

 initiated by the 1st Respondent/CBI and 2nd Respondent/Enforcement

 Directorate is taken by this Court, there will be unnecessary protraction of the

 proceedings and unwarranted delay in the entire criminal prosecution

http://www.judis.nic.in 11 launched by the CBI before the concerned Court. 20. The main object of constituting a Special Court is only for speedy trial of the

 cases for the offences of money laundering. Hence, inasmuch as such an

 offence of money laundering was not charged by the 1st Respondent/CBI,

 the investigation done by the 1st Respondent/CBI and the charge sheet laid

 by them before the Special Court for CBI cannot be transferred on the mere

 fact that the aforesaid offence was the basis of the money laundering. If

 such a view is adopted, all the cases pertaining to predicate offences/ fraud

 of the bank money will be stayed once the complaint under the PMLA is filed

 in the Special Court. 21. As stated above, in a batch of Criminal Original Petitions in

 Crl.OP.Nos.25157 to 25168 of 2016, this Court, by order dated, 14.06.2017,

 in similar circumstances, had negatived a similar prayer, seeking joint trial.

 This Court also is of the firm opinion that the cases, arising out of money

 laundering, pending before the other Courts other than the Special Court

 cannot be transferred and such a Court can only commit the cases to the

 Special Court on filling necessary application by the authority concerned,

 seeking permission to file the complaint under the Prevention of Money

 Laundering Act . Therefore, the question of transferring the impugned

 proceedings to the Special Court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act does not arise at all. Therefore, the relief sought for by the petitioners

 cannot be sustained, at this stage. 22. As stated above, admittedly, in respect of the impugned proceedings, the

 1st Respondent/CBI has not charge sheeted the Petitioner for the offence
http://www.judis.nic.in 12 with respect to money laundering, as contemplated under the Act, 2002. That

 being so, the prayer of Petitioner/A1, seeking transfer of the afore said cases

 from the file of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore,

 Chennai, to the file of the Principal Sessions Court, Chennai constituted for

 the Prevention of Money Laundering Act , cannot be allowed, at this stage,

 merely because such case also involves serious bank frauds. 23. No doubt, the offence of money laundering is inextricably linked with the

 scheduled offence and thereby, it would be the ultimate interest of the

 Prosecution to see that charges for the predicate offence/scheduled offence

 are proved so as to bring the amounts involved in the cases for the predicate

 offence, within the ambit of the definition of 'proceeds crime”. That is the

 reason the wisdom of the legislature have given the option to the Department

 to seek for a joint trial rather than to give the option to the accused, so that

 the delay may not be caused in the trial of the offence for the predicate

 offence. 24. Further, this Court is also of the view that allowing the trial to be continued

 in the CBI Court will not cause any prejudice to the Petitioner/A1. In fact, if

 the relief as sought for by the Petitioner/A1 is granted, serious prejudice

 would not only cause to the Prosecution, but also to the Petitioner/A1. That

 apart, even in the case of CBI and the complaint filed by the Enforcement

 Directorate, there cannot be any common evidence and the evidence of each

 case, has to be assessed independently for deciding the same. Therefore,

 the contention of the learned counsel for the Petitioner/A1 that the evidence

 would be common in the CBI charge sheeted case as well as the case
http://www.judis.nic.in 13 pending on the file of the Special Court for Prevention of Money Laundering

 is not sustainable in law. Hence, this Court is of the view that the cases,

 which are pending on the file of the CBI Court in connection with various

 offences, which were investigated in the year 2013, cannot be transferred to

 the Special Court for Prevention of Money Laundering as sought for by the

 Petitioner/A1. Consequently, this Court is not inclined to entertain the

 present Criminal Original Petition. However, this Court took note of the

 submissions made by the learned counsel for the 2nd Respondent that steps

 are being taken to file necessary application as per Section 44(1)(c) of the

 PMLA, seeking to transfer the case. 25. In the result, this Criminal Original Petition is dismissed, as devoid of merits. Consequently, the connected MP is closed. 09.04.2019

 Index:Yes/No
 Web:Yes/No
 Speaking/Non Speaking
 Srcm

 To: Srcm

 Pre-Delivery Order in Crl.OP.No.6703 of 2019 09.04.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in