Chowdhury, Sub-Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime Police Station,

Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate, West Bengal for violating the

directions of the Apex Court in Arnesh Kumar vs. State of Bihar & Anr.1 in

regard to her arrest. 2. Facts giving rise to the arrest of the petitioner are as follows :- 3. On 30.06.2022 one Somnath Basak lodged a written complaint at

Bidhannagar Police Station alleging he had deposited a sum of

Rs.2,32,85,951/- only in an online trading platform viz. M/s. Lexa Trade

which had offered to trade in different instruments in foreign markets.

The said deposits were made through various banks on different dates.

During that period he received communications through electronic mails

as well as phone/Skype calls from different electronic mail IDs. Various

persons had contacted him on his mobile phone from different phone

numbers. But inspite of repeated requests to refund the money, the same

has not been refunded. 4. On the basis of the aforesaid allegations, Bidhannagar Cyber

Crime Police Station Case No.104 of 2022 dated 30.06.2022 under Sections 420 / 406 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code was registered for

investigation. During the investigation, petitioner was arrested by

respondent no.1 from her residence at Bangalore on 11.01.2023. She was

produced before the jurisdictional Magistrate at Bangalore and a transit

remand order was obtained. Thereafter, on 15.01.2023 she was produced 1 (2014) 8 SCC 273 3 before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Bidhannagar and

remanded to police custody till 20.01.2023. On 20.01.2023 learned

Sessions Judge, Barasat enlarged the petitioner on bail, inter alia, holding

no notice under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure had been

issued in terms of the directions in Arnesh Kumar (Supra). 5. Under such circumstances, petitioner had taken out the present

application. 6. Respondent/alleged contemnor no.1 i.e. Arresting Officer has filed

affidavits in response to the notice served on him. Specific defence taken

in the affidavit is to the effect that all necessary formalities prior to arrest

including compliance of requirements of Arnesh Kumar (Supra) had been

made. Arrest memo and the check list prepared under Section 41 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure are annexed to the supplementary affidavit-

in-opposition. Order passed by the jurisdictional Magistrate at Bangalore

recording the submission of the check list and the satisfaction with regard

to compliance of relevant rules regarding arrest have also been annexed. 7. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor has produced the case diary

before us. 8. Mr. Souradeep Banerjee for the petitioner contends his client was

a lady with a five-year old child. She was not named in the FIR. There was

no chance of her abscondence. Without issuing notice under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, respondent no.1 in a mechanical

manner arrested her from her residence at Bangalore and took her to 4 Kolkata. The arrest was patently illegal, unwarranted and in violation of

the directions in Arnesh Kumar (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil vs.

Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr.2 . 9. In response, Mr. Sabir Ahmed for the alleged contemnor no.1-

arresting officer submits the allegations in the FIR disclose a cyber fraud

with international ramifications. An online trading platform viz. M/s. Lexa

Trade was floated to induce unsuspecting individuals to invest in different

instruments in foreign markets. Being induced the complainant had made

deposits through the online trading platform. However, the identity of the

proprietor of the online firm was masked. Misappropriated funds could be

traced to one M/s. Tanjore Global Services Private Limited of which

petitioner and her husband (an absconding accused) are Directors.

Investigation further revealed the husband of the petitioner was abroad

and there was every likelihood that the petitioner would also flee the

country. As the petitioner was a flight risk and her interrogation for

tracing the ramifications of the crime and recovery of stolen money was

necessary, Investigating Agency chose to invoke the powers of arrest

instead of resorting to issuance of notice under Section 41A of the Code of

Criminal Procedure. Requirements of Arnesh Kumar (Supra) were

complied with. Check list was prepared and submitted before the

jurisdictional Magistrate. Magistrate perused the documents and recorded

requisite satisfaction that the arrest was as per rules. 2 (2022) 10 SCC 51 5 10. In rebuttal, Mr. Banerjee contends the check list is a mere

reproduction of the provisions of the statute and such lip service cannot

justify arrest or compliance with the directions in Arnesh Kumar (Supra). 11. Having considered the materials on record and the rival

submissions at the Bar, we find the following facts are undisputed :- inspection memo, check list under Section 41 of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure and medical reports. Upon considering

 the aforesaid materials, the Magistrate recorded that the

 Investigating Officer had arrested the petitioner after

 complying with the relevant rules. Accordingly, he passed the

 order of transit remand. (viii) Pursuant thereto, the petitioner was produced before the

 Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Bidhannagar on

 15.01.2023 who remanded her to police custody till

 20.01.2023. (ix) On 20.01.2023 petitioner moved a bail application before the

 Sessions Judge. (x) Learned Sessions Judge, inter alia, noted no notice under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure had been

 issued upon the petitioner. Thereafter considering the nature

 of the offence and other facts and circumstances of the case, 7 learned Judge was pleased to enlarge the petitioner on

 interim bail. 12. In this factual backdrop, we are called upon to decide whether the

arrest of the petitioner was in violation of the directions in Arnesh Kumar (Supra) which has been reiterated in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). 13. In Arnesh Kumar (Supra) the Apex Court, inter alia, laid down the

following directions regulating arrest in cases involving offences

punishable upto seven years. 14. Ratio in Arnesh Kumar (Supra) was reiterated in Satender Kumar

Antil (Supra) as follows :- 15. Reading the directions in Arnesh Kumar (Supra) it is clear during

investigation of cases involving offences punishable upto seven years, the

Investigating Agency is required to issue a notice of appearance in writing

under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure upon an accused

within two weeks of institution of the case which may be extended by

Superintendent of Police for reasons to be recorded in writing. Arrest shall

not be made automatically and the necessity of such arrest is to be stated

with reference to the parameters laid down in Section 41 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure in a check list containing sub-clauses under Section

41(1)(b)(ii) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 16. Admittedly, no notice under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal

Procedure had been issued upon the petitioner. Without resorting to such

course Investigating Agency directly proceeded to arrest her under Section

41 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 17. A check list stating the necessity for arrest was prepared and

placed before the jurisdictional Magistrate which reads as follows :- has been received, or a Bidhannagar North, Kolkata -
 reasonable suspicion exists that 700064, one cognizable case
 he has committed a cognizable has been started at
 offence punishable with Bidhannagar Cyber Crime PS
 imprisonment for a term which Case No.104/22, Dated-
 may be less than seven years or 30/06/2022, U/S-
 which may extend seven years 420/406/120B IPC whether with or without fine 2. 41(b)(ii)(a) Whether a police officer is The accused and her associate
 satisfied that to prevent a conducting a national and
 person from committing any international racket there
 victimize by her and her
 further offence, arrest is
 associate to innocent people
 necessary who are wants to trading in
 genuine process in the name
 giving false promises. And
 created fake trading website. 3. 41(b)(ii)(b) Whether a police officer is The accused after arrest can
 satisfied for proper lead or help us to recover the
 investigation of the offence, devices which were used for
 created fake websites and also
 arrest is necessary
 recover cheated money which
 were collected from the
 complainant. 4. 41(b)(ii)(c) Whether a police officer is If not arrested her there are
 satisfied that to prevent such every chances that she can
 person from causing the escape from India, where
 evidence of the offence to her husband is out of India
 disappear or tampering with
 such evidence in any
 manner, arrest is necessary 5. 41(b)(ii)(d) Whether a police officer is After arrest she led to
 satisfied that to prevent such recovered to bank accounts
 person from making any which the racket were used
 inducement, threat or to received cheated
 promise to any person amount. acquainted with the facts of
 the case so as to dissuade
 him from disclosing such
 facts to the Court or to the
 police, arrest is necessary 10 6. 41(b)(ii)(e) Whether a police officer is Not applicable
 satisfied as unless such
 person is arrested, his
 presence in the Court
 whenever required cannot be
 ensured, arrest is necessary 18. It has been argued the investigation involves a cyber fraud which

had international ramifications. Monies invested through a fictitious

online trading firm had been transferred to the firm owned by the

petitioner and her husband. Her husband was abroad and had

absconded. We are informed even now warrant of arrest is pending

against him. Apprehending a notice under Section 41A of the Code of

Criminal Procedure would also prompt the petitioner to flee the country,

Investigating Officer resorted to the powers of arrest after recording the

necessity of arrest in terms of Arnesh Kumar (Supra). 19. Right of arrest is a part of investigation and the discretion to

invoke such draconian power eclipsing liberty should be resorted to

exceptional cases. However, it is the Investigating Officer who has to

decide in the first place with regard to the necessity as well as its

immediacy in the factual matrix of each case. 20. In the present case, it appears the Investigating Officer was

primarily swayed by the fact that the petitioner was a flight risk and

would abscond with the assistance of her husband who was already

abroad. These and other materials in the check list pertaining to the

nature of crime, requirement of custodial interrogation to recover devices

through which fake website was created and recover stolen property 11 prompted the Investigating Officer to arrest the petitioner. Decision of the

Investigating Officer was considered by the Magistrate who recorded his

satisfaction with regard to compliance of Rules regarding arrest. 21. In such view of the matter it cannot be said power of arrest was

exercised by the Investigating Officer in an arbitrary or perverse manner

or in derogation of the directions in Arnesh Kumar (Supra). 22. It has been argued entries in the check list are mere reproduction

of the words of the statute. 23. We are unable to agree with the submission. Relevant Entries

describe the nature of the crime which is said to have international

ramifications; reason for custodial interrogation namely, recovery of

electronic devices through which fake website was created as well as

recovery of stolen money and last but not the least apprehension of the

officer that the petitioner shall flee the country with the help of her

husband who was abroad. This apprehension is further reinforced

through subsequent events that the husband had not cooperated with the

investigation and warrant of arrest had been issued against him. 24. The last explanation was recorded incorrectly against serial no.4 of

the check list instead of serial no.6, obviously an inadvertent error which

does affect the meaning and purport of the document. 25. In light of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the opinion the arrest

of the petitioner cannot be said to be in violation of the directions in Arnesh Kumar (Supra) necessitating invocation of contempt jurisdiction. 12 26. However, during pendency of the hearing, certain disturbing facts

were brought to our notice. As the husband of the petitioner had

absconded and could not be arrested, police officer had visited the

residence of the petitioner on 21.04.2023 and interrogated her with

regard to her husband's whereabouts. While it is within the domain of the

Investigating Agency to resort to all lawful means to trace out an

absconding accused, it is not within the scope and ambit of law to subject

a family member to harassment on such score. 27. Accordingly, while disposing of an application for contempt we

direct the petitioner shall not be subjected to any harassment in the name

of further investigation relating to apprehension of her husband. This

observation however, would not hinder the Investigating Agency to resort

to any lawful process to apprehend the absconding accused in accordance

with law. 28. With these observations, the contempt application is disposed of. 29. Photostat certified copy of this judgment, if applied for, be given to

the parties on compliance of all formalities. I agree.