IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
 CRMPM No.944 to 952 2020
 Reserved on : June 30, 2020
 Date of Decision : July 6, 2020

 . 1. CRMPM No.944/2020
 Freed ....Petitioner
 Versus

 State of H.P. ....Respondent. 2. CRMPM No.945/2020
 Khalid ....Petitioner

 Versus
 State of H.P. ....Respondent. 3. CRMPM No.946/2020
 Salman
 r ....Petitioner

 Versus
 State of H.P. ....Respondent. 4. CRMPM No.947/2020

 Rakib ....Petitioner
 Versus
 State of H.P. ....Respondent. The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting? Yes. Hemant Vaid, Additional Advocates
 General. Vivek Singh Thakur, Judge

 These bail applications, filed by petitioners

 under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973

 (hereinafter referred to as ' Cr.P.C .'), seeking anticipatory

 bail, apprehending their arrest, in case FIR No.78 of 2020,

 dated 22.6.2020, registered, under Sections 147 , 148 , 149 , 323 , 307 & 341 of the Indian Penal Code, in Police Station

 Majra, District Sirmour, Himachal Pradesh, adjudicated on

 the basis of common record and submissions, are being

 decided together by this common judgment. CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...3... 2. Section 438 of the Cr.P.C., as existing on date,

 reads as under: opportunity of being heard when the application
 shall be finally heard by the Court. (1B) The presence of the applicant seeking

 . anticipatory bail shall be obligatory at the time of

 final hearing of the application and passing of final
 order by the Court, if on an application made to it by
 the Public Prosecutor, the Court considers such
 presence necessary in the interest of justice. (2) When the High Court or the Court of Session
 makes a direction under subsection (1), it may
 include such conditions in such directions in the light
 of the facts of the particular case, as it may thinks
 fit, including- (i) a condition that the person shall make
 himself available for interrogation by a
 r police officer as and when required; inducement, threat or promise to any
 person acquainted with the facts of the
 case so as to dissuade him from
 disclosing such facts to the Court or to
 any police officer; (iii) a condition that the person shall not
 leave India without the previous
 permission of the Court; (iv) such other condition as may be imposed
 under sub-section (3) of section 437 , as

 if the bail were granted under that
 section. (3) If such person is thereafter arrested without
 warrant by an officer in charge of a police station on
 such accusation, and is prepared either at the time
 of arrest or at any time while in the custody of such
 officer to give bail, he shall be released on bail, and
 if a Magistrate taking cognizance of such offence
 decides that a warrant should issue in the first
 instance against that person, he shall issue a
 bailable warrant in conformity with the direction of
 the Court under sub-section (1)." CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...5... 3. It is noticeable that there was no specific

 provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898,

 . empowering the Court to grant bail to a person

 apprehending his arrest, as this provision was introduced,

 for the first time, in the Cr.P.C . in 1973. Necessity of such

 provision was felt by the Law Commission of India long ago,

 in the year 1969, by observing in its 41st Report (Volume-I)

 in Para-39.9, as under: 4. The Central Government had, in principle,

 accepted the suggestion made by the Law Commission of ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...6... India, by introducing Clause 447 in the Draft Bill of the Cr.P.C . of 1970, whereby expressed powers on the High

 . Court and the Court of Session to grant anticipatory bail,

 were proposed to be conferred. 5. In its 48th Report (1972), in Para-31, the Law

 Commission of India, had commented on the proposal as

 under: 6. Ultimately, Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. came in

 existence, in the shape of unamended Section 438 , in 1973,

 as under: 7. Existing provision of Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. has come into existence, on substitution of its sub-section

 (1) by the new sub-sections (1), (1-A) and (1-B), by way of ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...8... amendment vide Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)

 Act, 2005. . 8. Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. is a right provided for

 a person to approach the trial Court or the Court of Session,

 seeking direction to enlarge him on bail, in the event of his

 arrest, in a case wherein he apprehends his arrest on

 accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence. 9. Commenting upon the right provided under Section 438 of the Cr.P.C., the Supreme Court in State of

 M.P. & another v. Ram Kishna Balothia & another , (1995) 3

 SCC 221, has observed that it is essentially a statutory right

 conferred long after the coming into force of the

 Constitution, but with clarification that it cannot be

 considered as an essential ingredient of Article 21 of the

 Constitution. 10. Dealing with a case under unamended Section

 438 , a five-Judges Constitution Bench of the Apex Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia & others v. State of Punjab , (1980) 2

 SCC 565, has clarified few points as under: CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...10... 11. The Apex Court in Savitri Agarwal and others v. State of Maharashtra and another, (2009) 8 SCC 325, dealing

 . with a post-amendment case, referring Constitution Bench

 Judgment passed in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia 's case has

 observed as under: some sort of vague apprehension that
 someone is going to make an
 accusation against him, in pursuance of
 which he may be arrested. The grounds

 . on which the belief of the applicant is

 based that he may be arrested for a
 non-bailable offence, must be capable
 of being examined by the Court
 objectively. Specific events and facts

 must be disclosed by the applicant in
 order to enable the Court to judge of the
 reasonableness of his belief, the
 existence of which is the sine qua non of
 the exercise of power conferred by the
 Section. (iii) The observations made in Balchand Jain
 v. State of M.P. , (1976) 4 SCC 572,
 regarding the nature of the power
 conferred by Section 438 and regarding
 r the question whether the conditions
 mentioned in Section 437 should be

 read into Section 438 cannot be treated
 as conclusive on the point. There is no
 warrant for reading into Section 438 ,
 the conditions subject to which bail can
 be granted under Section 437(1) of the

 Code and therefore, anticipatory bail
 cannot be refused in respect of offences
 like criminal breach of trust for the mere
 reason that the punishment provided for

 is imprisonment for life. Circumstances
 may broadly justify the grant of bail in
 such cases too, though of course, the

 Court is free to refuse anticipatory bail
 in any case if there is material before it
 justifying such refusal. (iv) No blanket order of bail should be
 passed and the Court which grants
 anticipatory bail must take care to
 specify the offence or the offences in
 respect of which alone the order will be
 effective. While granting relief under Section 438(1) of the Code, appropriate
 conditions can be imposed under Section 438(2) so as to ensure an
 uninterrupted investigation. One such
 condition can even be that in the event ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...12... of the police making out a case of a
 likely discovery under Section 27 of the
 Evidence Act, the person released on
 bail shall be liable to be taken in police

 . custody for facilitating the recovery. Otherwise, such an order can become a
 charter of lawlessness and a weapon to
 stifle prompt investigation into offences
 which could not possibly be predicated

 when the order was passed. (v) The filing of First Information Report
 (FIR) is not a condition precedent to the
 exercise of power under Section 438.
 The imminence of a likely arrest

 founded on a reasonable belief can be
 shown to exist even if an FIR is not yet
 filed. (vi) An anticipatory bail can be granted even
 r after an FIR is filed so long as the
 applicant has not been arrested. (vii) The provisions of Section 438 cannot be
 invoked after the arrest of the accused.
 After arrest, the accused must seek his
 remedy under Section 437 or Section

 439 of the Code, if he wants to be
 released on bail in respect of the
 offence or offences for which he is
 arrested. (viii) An interim bail order can be passed
 under Section 438 of the Code without

 notice to the Public Prosecutor but
 notice should be issued to the Public
 Prosecutor or to the Government

 advocate forthwith and the question of
 bail should be re-examined in the light
 of respective contentions of the parties.
 The ad-interim order too must conform
 to the requirements of the Section and
 suitable conditions should be imposed
 on the applicant even at that stage. (ix) Though it is not necessary that the
 operation of an order passed under
 Section 438(1) of the Code be limited in
 point of time but the Court may, if there ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...13... are reasons for doing so, limit the
 operation of the order to a short period
 until after the filing of FIR in respect of
 the matter covered by the order. The

 . applicant may, in such cases, be

 directed to obtain an order of bail under
 Section 437 or 439 of the Code within a
 reasonable short period after the filing
 of the FIR." 12. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of

 Maharashtra and others , (2011) 1 SCC 694, following Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia 's case, the Supreme Court has

 pointed out the following factors and parameters, which can

 be taken into consideration at the time of dealing with

 anticipatory bail: CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...14... (vi) Impact of grant of anticipatory bail
 particularly in cases of large magnitude
 affecting a very large number of people; . (vii) The courts must evaluate the entire

 available material against the accused
 very carefully. The court must also clearly
 comprehend the exact role of the accused
 in the case. The cases in which accused is

 implicated with the help of sections 34 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code, the court
 should consider with even greater care
 and caution because over implication in
 the cases is a matter of common

 knowledge and concern; (viii) While considering the prayer for grant of
 anticipatory bail, a balance has to be
 r struck between two factors namely, no
 prejudice should be caused to the free, fair

 and full investigation and there should be
 prevention of harassment, humiliation and
 unjustified detention of the accused; (ix) The court to consider reasonable

 apprehension of tampering of the witness
 or apprehension of threat to the
 complainant; (x) Frivolity in prosecution should always be
 considered and it is only the element of

 genuineness that shall have to be
 considered in the matter of grant of bail
 and in the event of there being some

 doubt as to the genuineness of the
 prosecution, in the normal course of
 events, the accused is entitled to an order
 of bail." 13. In Bhadresh Bipinbhai Sheth v. State of Gujarat

 and another , (2016) 1 SCC 152, the Supreme Court, in

 addition to reiterating the factors and parameters, ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...15... delineated in the judgment in Siddharam Satlingappa

 Mhetre 's case, has further culled out the following principles

 . for the purpose of dealing with a case of anticipatory bail

 under Section 438 of the Cr.P.C.: 14. A three Judges Bench of the Supreme Court of

 India, for two divergent views in various judgments of the

 Supreme Court, on the issue that as to whether an

 anticipatory bail should be for a limited period of time or

 not, vide judgment in Sushila Aggarwal & Others v. State

 (NCT of Delhi) & another , reported in (2018) 7 SCC 731, had

 referred the matter to Larger Bench of the Supreme Court

 for authoritative decision. 15. In Special Leave Petition (Criminal) Nos.7281 of

 2017 and 7282 of 2017, decided on 19.1.2020, titled as Sushila Aggarwal & Others v. State (NCT of Delhi) & another ,

 {2020 SCC Online SC 98}, a five-Judges Bench (Constitution

 Bench) of the Supreme Court of India, at the time of

 deciding matter referred to Larger Bench of the Supreme ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...18... Court for authoritative decision, has finally concluded as

 under: State of Punjab, (1980) 2 SCC 565 ,
 when a person complains of
 apprehension of arrest and approaches
 for order, the application should be ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...19... based on concrete facts (and not vague
 or general allegations) relatable to one
 or other specific offence. The
 application seeking anticipatory bail

 . should contain bare essential facts

 relating to the offence, and why the
 applicant reasonably apprehends arrest,
 as well as his side of the story. These
 are essential for the court which should

 consider his application, to evaluate the
 threat or apprehension, its gravity or
 seriousness and the appropriateness of
 any condition that may have to be
 imposed. It is not essential that an
 application should be moved only after

 an FIR is filed; it can be moved earlier,
 so long as the facts are clear and there
 is reasonable basis for apprehending
 r arrest. (2) It may be advisable for the court, which
 is approached with an application under

 Section 438, depending on the
 seriousness of the threat (of arrest) to
 issue notice to the public prosecutor
 and obtain facts, even while granting
 limited interim anticipatory bail. (3) Nothing in Section 438 Cr. PC, compels
 or obliges courts to impose conditions
 limiting relief in terms of time, or upon

 filing of FIR, or recording of statement of
 any witness, by the police, during
 investigation or inquiry, etc. While

 considering an application (for grant of
 anticipatory bail) the court has to
 consider the nature of the offence, the

 role of the person, the likelihood of his
 influencing the course of investigation,
 or tampering with evidence (including
 intimidating witnesses), likelihood of
 fleeing justice (such as leaving the
 country), etc. The courts would be
 justified - and ought to impose
 conditions spelt out in Section 437 (3),
 Cr. PC [by virtue of Section 438 (2)]. The
 need to impose other restrictive
 conditions, would have to be judged on
 a case by case basis, and depending ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...20... upon the materials produced by the
 state or the investigating agency. Such
 special or other restrictive conditions
 may be imposed if the case or cases

 . warrant, but should not be imposed in a

 routine manner, in all cases. Likewise,
 conditions which limit the grant of
 anticipatory bail may be granted, if they
 are required in the facts of any case or

 cases; however, such limiting conditions
 may not be invariably imposed. (4) Courts ought to be generally guided by
 considerations such as the nature and
 gravity of the offences, the role

 attributed to the applicant, and the facts
 of the case, while considering whether
 to grant anticipatory bail, or refuse it.
 Whether to grant or not is a matter of
 discretion; equally whether and if so,
 r what kind of special conditions are to be
 imposed (or not imposed) are

 dependent on facts of the case, and
 subject to the discretion of the court. (5) Anticipatory bail granted can,
 depending on the conduct and behavior

 of the accused, continue after filing of
 the charge sheet till end of trial. (6) An order of anticipatory bail should not

 be "blanket" in the sense that it should
 not enable the accused to commit
 further offences and claim relief of

 indefinite protection from arrest. It
 should be confined to the offence or
 incident, for which apprehension of

 arrest is sought, in relation to a specific
 incident. It cannot operate in respect of
 a future incident that involves
 commission of an offence. (7) An order of anticipatory bail does not in
 any manner limit or restrict the rights or
 duties of the police or investigating
 agency, to investigate into the charges
 against the person who seeks and is
 granted pre-arrest bail. CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...21... (8) The observations in Sibbia regarding
 "limited custody" or "deemed custody" Prakash Kadam & Etc. Etc vs Ramprasad
 Vishwanath Gupta & Anr , (2011) 6 SCC
 189; Jai Prakash Singh (supra) State
 through C.B.I. vs. Amarmani Tripathi,

 . (2005) 8 SCC 21. This does not amount

 to "cancellation" in terms of Section 439
 (2), Cr. PC. Maharashtra & Ors, (2011) 1 SCC 694
 (and other similar judgments) that no
 restrictive conditions at all can be
 imposed, while granting anticipatory
 bail are hereby overruled. Likewise, the

 decision in Salauddin Abdulsamad
 Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra , (1996) 1
 SCC 667 and subsequent decisions
 (including K.L. Verma v. State & Anr ,
 (1998) 9 SCC 348 ; Sunita Devi v. State r of Bihar & Anr, (2005) 1 SCC 608 ; Adri
 Dharan Das v. State of West Bengal ,

 (2005) 4 SCC 303 ; Nirmal Jeet Kaur v.
 State of M.P. & Anr , (2004) 7 SCC 558 ; HDFC Bank Limited v. J.J. Mannan ,
 (2010) 1 SCC 679 ; Satpal Singh v. the
 State of Punjab , 2018 SCC Online (SC)

 415 and Naresh Kumar Yadav v
 Ravindra Kumar, (2008) 1 SCC 632
 which lay down such restrictive
 conditions, or terms limiting the grant of

 anticipatory bail, to a period of time are
 hereby overruled. 16. It is also settled that for granting or rejecting

 anticipatory bail, assigning reason(s) for that is must. The

 Supreme Court has set aside the anticipatory bail granted/

 rejected without assigning any reason. {See: Fekan Yadav v. Satendr Yadav alias Boss Yadav alias Satendra Kumar and

 others, (2017) 16 SCC 775; Prem Giri v. State of Rajasthan, ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...23... (2018) 6 SCC 571; and Prem Giri v. State of Rajasthan ,

 (2018) 12 SCC 20}. . 17. Fundamental of criminal jurisprudence

 postulates 'presumption of innocence', meaning thereby

 that a person is believed to be innocent until found guilty

 and grant of bail is the general rule and putting a person in

 jail or in prison or in correction home, during trial, is an

 exception and bail is not to be withheld as a punishment

 and it is also necessary to consider whether the accused is

 a first time offender or has been accused of other offences

 and, if so, nature of such offence and his or her general

 conduct also requires consideration. Character of the

 complainant and accused is also a relevant factor. Reiterating these principles, the Apex Court in Dataram

 Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh and another , (2018) 3 SCC

 22, has also observed that however it should not be

 understood to mean that bail should be granted in every

 case, and the grant or refusal of bail is entirely within the

 discretion of the Judge hearing the matter and though that

 discretion is unfettered, it must be exercised judiciously and

 in a humane manner and compassionately. 18. While consideration a bail application, it would

 be necessary on the part of the Court to see culpability of ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...24... the accused and his involvement in the commission of

 organized crime, either directly or indirectly, and also to

 . consider the question from the angle as to whether

 applicant was possessed of the requisite mens rea. Interim

 bail, pending investigation, can be granted, keeping in view

 the facts and circumstances of the case. 19. It would be proper to also refer case law cited by

 learned Advocate General, before turning up to the

 submissions made by learned counsel for the parties,

 including Advocate General. 20. Reliance has been placed by learned Advocate

 General on Paras 5 & 6 of pronouncement of the Apex Court

 in Pokar Ram v. State of Rajasthan and others , (1985) 2 SCC

 597, wherein it has been observed that relevant

 considerations governing the Court's decision in granting

 anticipatory bail, under Section 438 Cr.P.C., are materially

 different from those when an application for bail by a

 person who is arrested in the course of investigation as also

 by a person who is convicted and his appeal is pending

 before the higher Court and bail is sought during pendency

 of the appeal. Further that three situations in which the

 question of granting or refusing to grant bail would arise,

 materially and substantially differ from each other and the ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...25... relevant considerations on which the Court should exercise

 its discretion, one way or the other, are substantially

 . different from each other. Observations in Para-6, based on Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia 's case, are as under: 21. Another case law cited by the learned Advocate

 General is a judgment passed by the Apex Court in P.

 Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2019) 9 SCC 24. Learned Advocate General has referred to Paras 69 to

 77, under the Heading captioned: 'Grant of anticipatory bail

 in exceptional cases', which read as under: legislative intent behind the introduction of Section

 438 Cr.P.C. is to safeguard the individual's personal
 liberty and to protect him from the possibility of
 being humiliated and from being subjected to
 unnecessary police custody. However, the court

 must also keep in view that a criminal offence is not
 just an offence against an individual, rather the
 larger societal interest is at stake. Therefore, a
 delicate balance is required to be established
 between the two rights - safeguarding the personal
 liberty of an individual and the societal interest. It

 cannot be said that refusal to grant anticipatory bail
 would amount to denial of the rights conferred upon
 the appellant under Article 21 of the Constitution of
 India. 73. The learned Solicitor General has submitted
 that depending upon the facts of each case, it is for

 the investigating agency to confront the accused
 with the material, only when the accused is in
 custody. It was submitted that the statutory right
 under Section 19 of PMLA has an in-built safeguard
 against arbitrary exercise of power of arrest by the

 investigating officer. Submitting that custodial
 interrogation is a recognised mode of interrogation
 which is not only permissible but has been held to
 be more effective, the learned Solicitor General placed reliance upon State v. Anil Sharma , (1997) 7
 SCC 187; Sudhir v. State of Maharashtra , (2016) 1
 SCC 146; and Directorate of Enforcement v. Hassan

 Ali Khan, (2011) 12 SCC 684. 74. Ordinarily, arrest is a part of the process of the

 investigation intended to secure several purposes.
 There may be circumstances in which the accused
 may provide information leading to discovery of
 material facts and relevant information. Grant of
 anticipatory bail may hamper the investigation. Pre-
 arrest bail is to strike a balance between the
 individual's right to personal freedom and the right
 of the investigating agency to interrogate the
 accused as to the material so far collected and to
 collect more information which may lead to recovery
 of relevant information. In State v. Anil Sharma, ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...29... (1997) 7 SCC 187, the Supreme Court held as under: that custodial interrogation is qualitatively

 more elicitation- oriented than questioning a
 suspect who is well ensconced with a
 favourable order under Section 438 of the
 Code. In a case like this effective interrogation

 of a suspected person is of tremendous
 advantage in disinterring many useful
 informations and also materials which would
 have been concealed. Success in such
 interrogation would elude if the suspected
 person knows that he is well protected and

 insulated by a pre-arrest bail order during the
 time he is interrogated. Very often
 interrogation in such a condition would reduce
 to a mere ritual. The argument that the
 custodial interrogation is fraught with the
 r danger of the person being subjected to third-
 degree methods need not be countenanced,

 for, such an argument can be advanced by all
 accused in all criminal cases. The Court has to
 presume that responsible police officers would
 conduct themselves in a responsible manner
 and that those entrusted with the task of

 disinterring offences would not conduct
 themselves as offenders." 75. Observing that the arrest is a part of the

 investigation intended to secure several purposes, in Adri Dharan Das v. State of W.B. , (2005) 4 SCC 303,
 it was held as under: (SCC p.313, para 19)

 "19. Ordinarily, arrest is a part of the process
 of investigation intended to secure several

 purposes. The accused may have to be
 questioned in detail regarding various facets
 of motive, preparation, commission and
 aftermath of the crime and the connection of
 other persons, if any, in the crime. There may
 be circumstances in which the accused may
 provide information leading to discovery of
 material facts. It may be necessary to curtail
 his freedom in order to enable the
 investigation to proceed without hindrance
 and to protect witnesses and persons
 connected with the victim of the crime, to ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...30... prevent his disappearance, to maintain law
 and order in the locality. For these or other
 reasons, arrest may become an inevitable part
 of the process of investigation. The legality of

 . the proposed arrest cannot be gone into in an

 application under Section 438 of the Code.
 The role of the investigator is well defined and
 the jurisdictional scope of interference by the
 court in the process of investigation is limited. The court ordinarily will not interfere with the
 investigation of a crime or with the arrest of
 the accused in a cognizable offence. An
 interim order restraining arrest, if passed
 while dealing with an application under
 Section 438 of the Code will amount to

 interference in the investigation, which
 cannot, at any rate, be done under Section
 438 of the Code." 76. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of

 Maharashtra , (2011) 1 SCC 694, the Supreme Court
 laid down the factors and parameters to be

 considered while dealing with anticipatory bail. It
 was held that the nature and the gravity of the
 accusation and the exact role of the accused must
 be properly comprehended before arrest is made
 and that the court must evaluate the available

 material against the accused very carefully. It was
 also held that the court should also consider whether
 the accusations have been made only with the
 object of injuring or humiliating the applicant by

 arresting him or her. 77. After referring to Siddharam Satlingappa

 Mhetre and other judgments and observing that
 anticipatory bail can be granted only in exceptional
 circumstances, in Jai Prakash Singh v. State of Bihar ,

 (2012) 4 SCC 379, the Supreme Court held as under: Anticipatory bail can be granted only in
 exceptional circumstances where the court is
 prima facie of the view that the applicant has
 falsely been enroped in the crime and would
 not misuse his liberty. (See D.K. Ganesh Babu ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...31... v. P.T. Manokaran, (2007) 4 SCC 434, State of
 Maharashtra v. Mohd. Sajid Husain Mohd. S.
 Husain, ( 2008) 1 SCC 213 and Union of India
 v. Padam Narain Aggarwal , (2008) 13 SCC

 . 305.)"" them they were chased and beaten by Abid Ali, Mobin,

 Shahrukh, Fareed, Feroz, Salman, Salamat, Khalid son of

 . Iqbal, Raqib Ali, Arif, Tanzim, etc. and not only those two

 persons but their family members and relatives, who had

 come to rescue them, were also beaten by the assailants. According to status report, victim Saurav was referred to

 Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences and Research,

 Chandigarh (PGI) for further management, in view of severe

 head injury with life threatening condition, as per discussion

 with Medical Specialist, and thereafter he remained under

 treatment at PGI till 26.6.2020, whereafter he has been

 transferred to Dr. Y.S. Parmar Government Medical College,

 Nahan and Dinesh, Sanjay and Chaman are also under

 treatment in the said College, whereas Manoj, Gaurav,

 Dharmender and Avinesh are under treatment in Civil

 Hospital at Paonta Sahib. 24. It is further in status report that HC Mohammed

 Khalid, despite being member of Police Department, has

 been found involved in the incident by leading his

 community and earlier also he was found involved in a case

 under Prevention of Corruption Act , whereabout FIR No.4 of

 2018, dated 12.1.2018, had been registered in Police

 Station Kala Amb, District Sirmour. CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...33... 25. As stated in the status report, and also

 submitted by learned Advocate Genera, at the place of

 . incident population of assailants is in majority and

 complainants are in minority and for that reason majority

 community used to threaten and terrorise the community in

 minority, and the incident has have its great impact on the

 communal harmony and the minority population is showing

 resentment by demonstrating in the area and for tension in

 the area there is also threat to the lives of accused and,

 thus, their enlargement on anticipatory bail will not only

 hamper the investigation, which is at initial stage, but also

 cause disturbance in the communal harmony. 26. MLCs of the petitioners i.e. of the complainant

 as well as accused persons, available in the police record,

 were written in such a manner that it was not possible to

 read these MLCs and to make out anything about the

 injuries recorded by the Doctor and his opinion in that

 regard and these MLCs were appearing to be incomplete in

 all respects and were not readable irrespective of making

 various attempts. On 02.07.2020, these documents were

 returned to learned Advocate General with a request to

 assist the Court by reading the same and convey relevant

 extract thereof to the Court. Despite making the best of all ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...34... their efforts, neither learned Advocate General nor the

 police officer present in the Court was in a position to make

 . any submission with respect to observation/ notes/writings

 of the Doctor on these MLCs and learned Advocate General

 had expressed, as was also felt by the Court, that it was not

 possible, at all, to read these MLCs and only Doctor, who

 had written these would be able to explain these

 documents. Therefore, respondent-State was directed to

 make available to the Court complete, legible and readable

 documents, including medical record like latest MLCs etc. of

 the parties. In sequel thereto, readable typed relevant

 abstract of MLCs of parties has been produced with record

 by the respondent-State. 27. Persons, namely, Abid and Salamat out of five

 accused arrested by the police are having injuries. These

 injuries alongwith opinion are as under:- Final Opinion: Final Opinion: 28. Injuries received by complainant party as

 recorded in MLCs are as under:- CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...37... 3. No visible injury seen at the time of
 examination. Final Opinion will be given after case

 . summary. Injuries at the time of examination:- 4. Pupils bilateral equally sluggish to light. 5. Injuries seen at the time of examination: 6. Cut lacerated wound of size 3.6*0.3*0.1
 cm on forehead reddish in colour. 7. Abrasion of 0.8*0.3 cm on right hand

 dorsal aspect reddish in colour. Final Opinion: . Final Opinion: Final Opinion: Saurav all others from both sides have received simple

 injuries. Whereas, nature of injuries of Saurav was found to

 be severe head injury and life threatening condition as per

 case seen by Medical Specialist CH Paonta Sahib and, thus,

 has been opined as grievous in nature. 30. Respondent-State as well as petitioners have

 put reliance upon respective video recording of CCTV

 camera produced in Court in pen-drives and, on their

 insistence, video clippings of CCTV footages of the incident

 have also been displayed and watched in the open Court. 31. On viewing both the clippings, it is apparent that

 both the video footages are of one and the same incident,

 but with a difference that beginning part of the incident

 recorded in CCTV footage produced by the State is not

 there in the CCTV footage produced on behalf of the

 petitioners. Otherwise, both the video footages are

 recording of one and the same incident, but apparently

 recorded by different cameras. 32. In the video footage produced by the State, the

 incident has been recorded in a camera fixed in house of

 one Maya Ram, from the front side of a vehicle, which was ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...40... being driven by Abid and stopped in front of the shop,

 stated to be of Kabul accused, wherein incident had started,

 . whereas the CCTV footage produced on behalf of the

 petitioners is recorded by a camera fixed in the shop of

 Kabul accused, covering the view of road in front of shop

 and is on left side (conductor side) of the vehicle and it is a

 footage of later part of the incident which is also recorded

 in the CCTV footage produced by the State but from

 another angle. In both footages a tractor arriving at spot at

 the end of recordings is clearly visible. Be that as it may,

 one fact is evident from the video clipping that incident had

 taken place in the broad day light and in a Chowk in

 presence of a large number of people, some of which are

 participants and others are silent spectators. 33. It is also noticeable that time of recording in

 both CCTV footages, with respect to a particular event is

 different and this difference is of about ten minutes. It is

 claimed by petitioners that Police did not collect the CCTV

 footage relied upon by them deliberately, but this plea has

 been rebutted by the State by producing on record

 interrogation of Rangzeb @ Auranzeb son of Kabul Hussain

 and Kabul Hussain @ Tuffail Mohammad, in whose shop

 CCTV was installed. As per record, Rangzeb @ Auranzeb has ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...41... revealed that his father is running a retail shop on Gulab

 Garh Chowk, whereas he (Rangzeb) uses to work at home

 . and drives a vehicle and as and when his father is not

 available he uses to sit in the shop and CCTV cameras,

 installed in their shop, are without recording facility,

 because they had not replaced the DVR of the cameras,

 which had damaged long ago and, therefore, they are not

 having any footage of recording of CCTV camera fixed in

 their shop. Kabul Hussain has also responded in the same

 manner with respect to availability of footage of recording

 by CCTV cameras fixed in his shop. 34. CCTV footage relied upon by petitioners herein

 is a recording by a camera with respect to which Kabul

 Hussain and his son Rangzeb @ Aurangzeb (accused) are

 claiming that it was not having facility of recording for want

 of replacement of damaged DVR. But now CCTV footage is

 available with petitioners or recording done by the same

 camera. How camera recorded the incident without DVR

 and if recording facility was there then it is a case of not

 only withholding the evidence but also tampering with it as

 in CCTV footage produced in Court beginning of incident

 has been omitted, which, in fact, had occurred in front of

 this camera, that footage may be against the petitioners. CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...42... When this camera had recorded later part of incident then

 first part must have been recorded in it. But the said part

 . has been withheld and a selective portion of recording has

 been produced in Court, however, from the police entire

 recording has been withheld. It appears that petitioners

 and arrested accused, in order to derail or confuse

 investigation, are trying to withheld or create or tamper

 evidence. This possibility is also fortified with variance in

 time of recording of the same footage in two CCTV

 footages. All this warrants custodial interrogation of persons

 directly involved in commission of offence. 35. It is visible in video recording produced by the

 State that in the beginning a vehicle is stopped in front of a

 shop/tin shed and its driver, stated to be Abid, comes out

 from the driver side, goes to opposite side of the vehicle

 and enters the shop, probably of Kabul, and thereafter

 within few seconds he comes back and takes out a rod in

 his hand and at the same time makes call on mobile phone

 and returns to the shop. In the meanwhile, persons which,

 apart from young boy also include women and elders, start

 coming and running towards the place of incident. By that

 time, two persons are pulled from the shop and taken

 towards the driver side of the vehicle and those two ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...43... persons surrounded by large number of persons are given

 beatings. Gathering of persons on the spot keeps on

 . increasing. One or two women can also be seen moving in

 violent mode having sticks in their hands. Thereafter, one

 person, alleged to be Dinesh, comes on spot alone with a

 stick in his hand but he does not succeed to rescue the two

 persons. In between, one of the two persons, who are

 being beaten, runs away from the spot and some of young

 boys present on the spot chase him on foot as well on

 bike/motorcycle. In later part of the clipping, one more

 person, who appears to be belonging to the side of

 complainant, comes on the spot, but immediately on his

 arrival he is thrashed and the other person coming behind

 him to save him is also thrashed. During this thrashing of

 these two persons, one person claimed to be Khalid, one of

 the petitioners and a Police Head Constable, posted in

 Women Cell, Nahan, overpowers one of the assailants and

 appears to be advising him not to participate but thereafter

 said Khalid continues to be part of the gathering on the

 spot. In the second clipping, he is leaving the spot, after

 incident is over, alongwith a small kid and a woman,

 probably his family, in a direction opposite to the road ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...44... leading to spot of second part of incident taken place in

 field. . 36. Video clipping of CCTV footage produced by the

 petitioners contains the later part of the incident in which

 two persons, who have already been taken to driver side of

 the vehicle, are not visible in the clipping, but it appears

 that portion of incident wherein persons coming to rescue

 the victims are being thrashed has been recorded. 37. According to learned Advocate General, it is one

 part of the incident and another episode of the incident had

 taken place in the fields and near house of one Anwar,

 wherein complainant and his brother Rakesh were chased

 and rounded by the assailants in the fields, when they had

 run from the spot after releasing themselves from the

 clutches of assailants, and were beaten in the fields and not

 only those two but the other family members etc., who had

 come to rescue them, were also beaten with sticks and

 stones and in that incident one Saurav had suffered severe

 head injury, which was dangerous to his life. 38. Mr. Kush Sharma, learned counsel for the

 petitioner has placed reliance on Siddharam Satlingappa

 Mhetre 's case and has submitted that in present case also

 there is false and random accusation and implication of ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...45... petitioners, despite the fact that they were not involved in

 the present case and further that no overt act on their part

 . has been alleged in the case and no direct involvement of

 the petitioners in the incident is indicated either in the FIR

 or in evidence collected by the Investigating Officer and the

 accusation has been made only with the object to falsely

 implicate them and other accused based on political

 influence, at the instance of complainant who happens to

 be member of a Political Party. r It is also submitted that

 Abid Ali and his father, namely Salamat, have been falsely

 implicated in this case, whereas the said persons were

 beaten by complainant alongwith other miscreants and

 when the aforesaid persons went to the Police Station in

 order to register a complaint against the complainant and

 other persons who had attacked and beaten them, instead

 of registering FIR at their instance, the Police officials

 illegally kept them in police custody since 21.6.2020 and

 falsely lodged FIR dated 22.6.2020 against them as well as

 against the petitioners herein and few others, and the

 petitioners are completely innocent and are being involved

 in false case at the instance of some interested persons,

 whereas petitioners have nothing to do with commission of

 alleged offences and they have not committed any offence, ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...46... much less offences under Sections 147 , 148 , 149 , 323 , 307 & 341 of the Indian Penal Code (' IPC ' for short). . 39. Alternatively, it is also canvassed on behalf of

 the petitioners that in any case, if, for argument sake,

 prosecution story is admitted to be true and correct, even

 then on the basis of complaint, statements and medical

 record, no case under Section 307 IPC is made out and

 ingredients to attract Section 307 IPC, like intention to

 cause murder or knowledge or conspiracy, preparation and

 commission of offence under Section 307 IPC, are missing,

 and there is no evidence that the incident was preplanned,

 rather it had happened at the spur of moment and no

 rivalry between the parties has come on record and the

 conduct of Investigating Officer is also not fair as he is

 collecting selective evidence at the instance of the

 complainant. 40. Learned counsel for the petitioner, further

 submits that incident, in fact, had started by one Dinesh,

 who had attacked Abid and his father Salamat, causing

 injuries to them, which is evident from Medico Legal

 Certificates (MLCs) of Abid and Salamat, issued on the basis

 of medical examination conducted at the instance of the

 police after their arrest. Further that police is randomly ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...47... picking up anybody and arresting him without ascertaining

 involvement, which is evident from the fact that arrested

 . five persons also include old persons, whereas in the video

 clipping no aged person is found to be involved. Further

 that video clipping being relied upon by the police, is

 blurred and not having clear vision of persons present on

 the spot and in those clippings, it is difficult to ascertain the

 identity of persons present and involved in the incident. Further that allegation of the police that petitioner Khalid,

 was leading his community to beat complainant party, is

 also incorrect and contrary to the video clippings itself,

 wherein he can be seen separating the persons, who were

 fighting and, thus, he was not involved in the incident at all,

 but has been implicated only for his unplanned but

 unfortunate presence on the spot. It is also submitted on

 behalf of the petitioner that communal angle being given to

 the incident by the police is false as the Deputy

 Commissioner, Nahan, himself has issued a statement that

 it was a quarrel between two boys and nothing more than

 that. 41. Reliance has also been placed by the petitioners

 on proceedings of a meeting conducted under

 Chairmanship of Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Civil). Copy of ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...48... proceedings, wherein members of two communities had

 participated has been placed on record. Referring these

 . proceedings, it is submitted that SDM, Paonta Sahib, had

 convened a meeting on 23.06.2020 between two parties in

 order to resolve/compromise between them with respect to

 clash taken place between two groups on 21.06.2020. In

 these proceedings, it has been recorded that both groups,

 participating in meeting, were in agreement that incident

 happened on 21.06.2020 at Gulabgarh, was an unfortunate

 incident. First party, expressing regret has informed that in

 future no such incident would be repeated and second party

 also, regretting for the incident, had condemned it. It is

 also recorded in the minutes that someone by circulating a

 message on Facebook was trying to give a communal

 colour to the incident, which was also condemned by the

 first party with request to remove it from the Facebook

 immediately and not to circulate any wrong message in

 future. As per proceedings, in this meeting, local Member

 of Legislative Assembly (MLA) was also a special guest. In

 the last, it is recorded in it that parties have requested the

 SDM that as and when injured persons would come back

 from PGI, both parties would sit together and by entering

 into an agreement in a harmonious meeting, would resolve ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...49... the dispute and SDM will be informed accordingly and for

 that purpose, participants representing both the parties

 . have also been named in the proceedings of the meeting. 42. It is also submitted on behalf of the petitioners

 that Deputy Commissioner has also constituted another

 Committee to resolve the dispute and maintain harmony in

 the society. Further that petitioners Mobin and Salman are

 Engineers, whereas, petitioner Feroz is a Post Graduate in

 Commerce and Khalid is a serving police official and they

 are well qualified and responsible educated persons. It is

 also submitted that all petitioners are law abiding

 permanent residents of the area and there is no possibility

 of their fleeing from justice and they are ready to abide by

 any term and condition imposed upon them by the Court for

 enlarging them on bail. Thus, it has been prayed that it is a

 fit case for enlarging the petitioners on bail. 43. It is also submitted by learned counsel for the

 petitioners that video clipping produced and relied upon by

 the prosecution is not clear. Whereas, in video clipping

 produced by the petitioners, which is in circulation in the

 area, visibility is very clear and from that it is clear that

 none of the petitioners was involved in the incident and

 further that petitioner Khalid can also be seen in it leaving ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...50... the spot alongwith wife and small child on the Motorcycle,

 but not indulging in beating the complainant as alleged. . 44. Learned Advocate General has opposed the

 grant of anticipatory bail on the ground that custodial

 interrogation in present case is necessary to ascertain the

 genesis of the incident and find out real cause of the

 incident and motive behind the commission of offence and,

 therefore, effective interrogation could only be possible

 during custody of petitioners and in view of nature, gravity

 and impact, it is not a fit case for enlarging the petitioners

 on anticipatory bail. Referring P. Chidambaram's case, he

 has asserted that anticipatory bail is not to be granted as a

 matter of rule and it has to be granted only when Court is

 convinced that exceptional circumstances exist to resort to

 extraordinary remedy and in present case no exceptional

 circumstance, in favour of petitioners, exists, rather record

 proves that they are not entitled for extraordinary remedy

 of anticipatory bail. 45. Learned Advocate General has also submitted

 that weapon of offence, like rod and sticks, are also yet to

 be recovered from the accused persons and there is

 possibility of riots in the area, in view of the atmosphere

 prevailing in the area on account of incident, which has ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...51... terrorized the entire population of the area, petitioners

 would be able to allure or threaten the witnesses, which

 . would definitely hamper the investigation, which is at initial

 stage and also there is every possibility of tampering with

 or vanishing the evidence by the petitioners. 46. It is submitted by learned Advocate General that

 on the basis of CCTV Footage obtained from the house of

 Maya Ram some photographs have been developed,

 wherein petitioners Abid, Shahrukh Khan, which clearly

 established the presence and involvement of Abid, Salamat,

 Shahrukh, Mobin, Khalid and one Naseem in the incident. It

 is further submitted by him that process of identifying all

 persons is undergoing and for that purpose custodial

 interrogation of the petitioners is very much necessary. It

 is also submitted by learned Advocate General that it may

 be possible that some of the accused persons may not be

 visible in the CCTV Footage, however, he submits that it

 would not lead to the conclusion that petitioners are not

 involved in commission of offence as CCTV Footage,

 available with police, pertains to only one part of the

 incident, whereas, second part of the incident had taken

 place beyond the reach of the camera of CCTV, in the fields

 and complainant has clearly named the accused persons in ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...52... the FIR and all the petitioners have been specifically named

 in the FIR, which was recorded without any delay after the

 . incident. 47. From the aforesaid facts and circumstances, it is

 evident that real cause of quarrel is yet to be ascertained,

 which can be disclosed by the accused persons. Though, it

 is claimed in the status report that persons of majority

 community in the area use to threat and terrorize persons

 of minority community in the area for having dominating

 population, but nothing has been produced to substantiate

 this plea. Any observation in this regard, at this stage,

 would be premature and hasty, for material placed before

 me. Learned counsel for the petitioners has also denied

 any communal angle in the incident, however, it is evident

 from the minutes of meeting held by SDM relied upon by

 the petitioners, that on account of incident communal

 harmony has been disturbed and for that reason only

 necessity of constitution of Peace Committees and holding

 meetings of two communities has been considered by the

 local Administration. It is also informed on behalf of the

 petitioners that the Deputy Commissioner has also formed

 another Committee for maintaining peace and harmony

 between two communities. CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...53... 48. Leaving aside the communal angle and

 considering this incident as an incident between two groups

 . only, from the material before me, it is apparent that

 incident had taken place in broad daylight, where two

 persons were beaten in presence of mass gathering by

 calling other assailants through mobile call and out of that

 mass gathering some persons were actively participating

 and some persons were silently either supporting or viewing

 the incident as some appeared to be silent spectators. Persons, who came to rescue the victims, were also beaten

 on the spot and victims who managed to flee from the spot

 were also chased and beaten alongwith those, who came to

 rescue them. Such incidents are blur on the civilized

 society. Even if, there was a grudge against the victims,

 assailants would not have taken law in their hands, but

 should have reported to the appropriate authority or their

 elders so as to resolve the issue. Tendency to settle the

 dispute in the street is contrary to the aim of establishment

 of 'Rule of Law' and to form a civilized society. The means

 and manner to resolve dispute in present case, are

 definitely highly depricable. 49. Contrary to the statement made on behalf of the

 petitioners, it is not a case where the fight has taken place ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...54... between two persons at spur of moment, but as is evident

 from the CCTV Footage, friends/persons were called on

 . telephone in order to beat complainants and thereafter in

 presence of huge gathering they were beaten alongwith

 their rescuers. Impact of such incident on society can be

 estimated without any doubt. The incident may or may not

 be communal riot, but it is definitely a riot in presence of

 large gathering where not only common men are present,

 but a police Head Constable is also amongst the gathering,

 who was having edge on the parties particularly on the

 assailants as appears from the video clipping that despite

 his overpowering and separating one assailant from

 participating in the riot, he was spared by the assailants,

 but it is also noticeable that he is not saving the victims

 from others, but trying to separate one of the assailant from

 the incident, who may be his near and dear or this

 petitioner may be well wisher of that person. Being a police

 man, what was expected from Khalid, was that he should

 have informed the police and he should not have remained

 silent spectator, but preventer of the incident as well as

 informer to the police, but from record, it appears th police

 was informed by one victim Dinesh. CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...55... 50. Every fight between two persons of different

 religions or castes is not always a religious or caste fight,

 . but definitely such fights many of times may take shape of

 communal riot and for the material placed before me, such

 possibility cannot be ruled out in present case. 51. It is also a fact that five persons, who were

 arrested by the police as accused, have been remanded by

 the Magistrate for police custody for custodial interrogation. 52. As held by the Apex Court, there is difference of

 factors, parameters and points to be considered at the time

 of adjudicating bail applications under Sections 438, 439 as

 well as 437 Cr.P.C . Person may be entitled for bail under Sections 437 and 439 Cr.P.C., in a given case, but may not

 be entitled for anticipatory bail under Section 438 Cr.P.C.,

 various reasons, including those discussed supra. 53. From the material placed before me, it cannot

 be said that ex-facie no case is made out at all against the

 petitioners and accusation has been made with object of

 injuring or humiliating them by having them so arrested. Though, it is stated by petitioners that the case has been

 registered, based on political influence, at the instance of

 the complainant, who happens to be a Member of a Political

 Party, but nothing material is available on record so as to ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...56... construe it and also from record it cannot be said that no

 incident had taken place at all. Occurrence of the incident

 . as well as impact thereof on the society is clearly evident

 from the status report as well as minutes of meeting held

 by SDM and also CCTV footages relied and produced by

 parties. 54. I am of the opinion that provisions of Section

 438 Cr.P.C. providing anticipatory bail are not available for

 the petitioners,
 r except Khalid, in given facts and

 circumstances of the present case. They may be entitled

 for regular bail under Section 437 and/or 439 Cr.P.C . but not

 anticipatory bail. Their custodial interrogation appears to

 be necessary. 55. In the light of above discussion, without

 commenting on merit of evidence available on record, I find

 that not only balance of convenience, but balance of justice

 and larger public interest, in comparison to private interest

 of the petitioners, except Khalid, is against the prayer made

 by the petitioners, as investigation is at a initial stage. 56. So far as Khalid is concerned, on collective

 consideration of two CCTV footages, he has been found

 present on spot, and a person like him claimed to be he,

 has been seen leaving the spot alongwith two others, i.e. ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...57... one child and a lady and he is active on the spot. For

 material before me, his conduct is not above board but at

 . the same time, for his role available on record, on the basis

 of limited evdiecne, as investigation is at initial state, he

 appears to be entitled for anticipatory bail, at this stage. As

 such, he is ordered to be enlarged on bail on his furnishing

 a personal bond in the sum of `50,000/- with one surety in

 the like amount to the satisfaction of the Arresting Officer,

 subject to the following conditions: CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...58... (vii) that he shall not leave the territory of India
 without information. Further, he shall
 provide his mobile and/or landline contact
 numbers alongwith his address of

 . residence and place of working and shall

 keep on informing the change therein, if
 any, to the Police/Court. 57. It will be open to the prosecution to apply for

 imposing and/or to the trial Court to impose any other

 condition on the accused-petitioner as deemed necessary in

 the facts and circumstances of the case and in the interest

 of justice. r 58. In case petitioner Khalid violates any or the

 conditions imposed upon him, his bail shall be liable to be

 cancelled. In such an eventuality, prosecution may

 approach the competent Court of law for cancellation of

 bail, in accordance with law. 59. In case, on the basis of evidence being and to

 be collected by Police, custodial interrogation of petitioner

 Khalid is warranted, in accordance with law, the

 respondent-State is at liberty to apply for cancellation of

 anticipatory bail granted to petitioner Khalid. 60. Accordingly, all the petitions, except CRMPM

 No.945 of 2020, titled as Khalid v. State of H.P. , are

 dismissed, but at the same time, I feel it also necessary to

 observe that petitioners are not entitled for bail under ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...59... Section 438 Cr.P.C., but they have liberty as well as right to

 file application(s) under Section 437 or 439 Cr.P.C ., as the

 . case may be, if advised so for grant of bail and such

 application(s) are to be and must be decided by the Courts

 on the basis of principles, factors and parameters,

 applicable for deciding those application(s) without being

 uninfluenced by observations made in present petitions,

 which have been made for dealing with anticipatory bail

 applications preferred under Section 438 Cr.P.C. 61. As noticed supra, it was difficult not only for

 Court, but to learned Advocate General as well as Police

 Officer present in the Court to read the observations and

 findings recorded by the Doctor in all MLCs. As learned

 Advocate General had expressed his inability to read the

 documents and submitted that only Doctor, who had

 written those MLCs would be able to read and explain them,

 case was adjourned, enabling the respondent-State to

 produce readable extract of MLCs. Therefore, to avoid such

 situation in future, causing wastage of time and energy, it is

 necessary to direct the Director (Health Services), Himachal

 Pradesh, to issue instructions/advisory/guidelines to the

 Doctor(s) to record their observations, findings and opinions

 in MLCs and other documents of medical examination in ::: Downloaded on - 06/07/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP CRMPM No.944 to 952 of 2020

 ...60... such a manner that it is at least readable so as to construe

 the meaning thereof and enable the Court as well as others

 . involved in adjudication of MLCs to understand correct

 meaning of the information in such documents. 62. Copy of relevant Paras No.26 and 61 of this

 jhudgment, for compliance, be sent to the Director of

 Health Services, Himachal Pradesh. 63. Observations made hereinabove shall not affect

 the merits of the case in any manner and are strictly

 confined for the disposal of the present bail applications. All the applications stand disposed of, with a

 direction to the Registry to place copy of this judgment on

 each of the connected applications. Police record returned.