1. There is a delay of 216 days in filing of this special leave petition

 against the judgment and order dated 5.10.2017 passed by the High

 Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad1 in Criminal Revision Application

 No. 205/2014. Even though the explanation offered in the

 application for condonation of delay is blissfully vague and bereft Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by of any material facts and particulars, keeping in mind the NEETU KHAJURIA Date: 2022.06.24 11:03:23 IST Reason: 1 for short, “the High Court” 2 subject matter involved, we deemed it appropriate to ignore/condone

the delay and proceeded to hear the matter on merits. 2. We must note that the respondents had faintly objected to the

hearing of this matter on merits owing to unexplained delay in filing

of the petition. However, they have a serious objection to the joining

of Ms. Teesta Setalvad (as petitioner No. 2). Firstly, because, the

protest petition on which impugned order had been passed and

assailed in this appeal, was filed only by the appellant2 – Zakia

Ahsan Jafri, wife of deceased – Mr. Ehsan Jafri and on the earlier

occasion (proceedings before the High Court), it has been ruled that

she had no locus standi to join the cause of appellant, which opinion

has become final as it has not been reversed by this Court in

SLP(Crl.) No. 1088/2008. Secondly, the antecedents of Ms. Teesta

Setalvad need to be reckoned and also because she has been

vindictively persecuting this lis for her ulterior design by exploiting

the emotions and sentiments of appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri, the

real victim of the circumstances. On the other hand, according to

Ms. Teesta Setalvad, she is a bonafide crusader of human rights 2 hereinafter, “appellant” means Zakia Ahsan Jafri only 3 issues and has been following this case closely being fully convinced

about the cause in quest of justice. However, as aforementioned, we

have leaned in favour of examining the merits of the challenge to the

impugned order(s) at the instance of appellant - Zakia Ahsan Jafri. For, because of the subject matter, this Court in the past had to

invoke its role of parens patriae in issuing sui generis directions

including in constituting a Special Investigation Team3 to investigate

into the matter and to present appropriate report before the

Metropolitan Magistrate taking cognizance of Crime Report (CR) No.

67/2002 dealing with the Gulberg Society, Meghaninagar case. Thus, we do not wish to dilate on the issue of locus of Ms. Teesta

Setalvad and keep that preliminary objection open to be decided in

an appropriate case. 3. In that light, we have granted leave to appeal and decided to

examine the matter on merits at the instance of the appellant – Zakia

Ahsan Jafri. for short, “SIT” 4 PREFACE 4. Shorn of unnecessary factual matrix, this matter essentially

emanates from the sui generis directions given by this Court on

27.4.20094 in SLP(Crl.) No. 1088/2008, whilst considering challenge

to the decision of the High Court dated 2.11.2007, rejecting the

prayer of the appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri for issuing direction to

the concerned authority to register an FIR on the basis of complaint

presented by her on 8.6.2006 to the Director General of Police,

Gujarat. However, this Court vide stated order (dated 27.4.20095),

directed the SIT appointed by it in terms of the order dated

26.3.20086, to “look into” the complaint dated 8.6.2006 and take

steps as required by law and to give its report to this Court within

three months. Consequent to such direction, the SIT submitted its

successive reports on the basis of investigation done by it including

by taking into account the observations of the Amicus Curiae

appointed by this Court. Treating the further report submitted by

the SIT as analogous to report under Section 173(8) of the Code of 4 2009 SCC Online SC 6 - Jakia Naseem Ahesan & Anr. vs. State of Gujarat & Ors. (2009) 6 SCC 342 – National Human Rights Commission vs. State of Gujarat & Ors . Criminal Procedure7, this Court permitted the SIT to place it before

the Magistrate taking cognizance of CR No. 67/2002 concerning trial

in Gulberg Society case with further direction to the Magistrate to

then proceed in accordance with law, including to give opportunity

to the appellant in the event of final report submitted by the SIT was

to recommend closure of her complaint. Appellant – Zakia Ahsan

Jafri, after being served with the final report dated 8.2.2012

alongwith relevant materials adverted to therein, then filed protest

petition on 15.4.2013. This protest petition came to be rejected by

the Metropolitan Magistrate vide order dated 26.12.2013 and

instead, the final report of the SIT came to be accepted. This decision

was carried before the High Court by way of Criminal Revision

Application No. 205/2014. The revision application came to be

disposed of on 5.10.2017, against which the present appeal arises

for our consideration. for short, “the Code” 6 FACTS 5. (a) Briefly stated, the abhorrent Godhra incident occurred in

the morning of 27.2.2002, wherein Kar-sevaks travelling in

Sabarmati Express train, returning from Ayodhya, were allegedly

attacked and coaches of the train were set on fire at Godhra Railway

Station at around 7.45 a.m., as a result of which, 58 persons were

charred to death and 59th victim succumbed to the burn injuries on

3.4.2002. As aftermath of that incident, there was unrest and

violence all across the State of Gujarat. In that process – a violent

mob attacked the inhabitants of Gulberg Society, Meghaninagar,

killing 69 persons at the stated location including the husband of

appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri, who had unsuccessfully attempted to

dissuade the mob. In connection with this incident, a crime was

registered at “Meghaninagar Police Station” being CR No. 67/2002. Multiple chargesheets were filed against the concerned accused and

the case was committed to Sessions. (b) Since there was widespread violence bordering on failure of the

State machinery to prevent and control the same including to arrest

all the perpetrators of the crime and undertake fair investigation, the 7 National Human Rights Commission8 filed a writ petition before this

Court being W.P.(Crl.) No. 109/2003. In that writ petition, the Court

appointed Mr. Harish Salve, learned senior counsel as Amicus Curiae

vide order dated 9.10.20039. (c) This Court vide order dated 21.11.200310, stayed the trial of 9

(nine) major criminal cases mentioned in the order, including the

one arising from CR No. 67/2002 concerning the Gulberg Society. for short, “the NHRC” 9 “ORDER W.P.(Crl.) No. 109/2003 An affidavit has been filed by the Chief Secretary to the Government of Gujarat on 7 th October, 2003.
 The said affidavit discloses that the State has moved to the High Court for amending the criminal appeal
 filed against the judgment passed by the Sessions Court acquitting the accused and the Court has
 permitted the appeal to be amended. In the aforesaid view of the matter, we feel that in this case an
 Amicus Curiae is required to be appointed. We request Shri Harish N. Salve, Sr. Advocate to appear in
 this case as Amicus Curiae which he has accepted. Mr. Bhargava V. Desai, Advocate-on-Record is also
 appointed as Amicus Curiae to assist Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. List this matter as also TP(Crl.) Nos. 194-202/2003, WP(Crl.) No. D17953/2003, SLP(Crl.) No. 3770/2003,
 SLP(C) No. 7951/2002 and WP (Crl.) Nos. 11-15/2003 on 17th October, 2003. Counter affidavit filed
 today in Court on behalf of Respondents Nos. 2 to 22 in SLP(C) No. 3770/2003 be taken on record. Let a complete set of paperbooks be given to the learned Amicus Curiae within 48 hours by the State of
 Gujarat. …..” 10 “ORDER

 TP(Crl) 194-202/203. Issue notice. Notice has been accepted by Ms.H.Wahi, learned counsel appearing for respondent no.1 State of
 Gujarat. She prays for and is allowed two weeks’ time to file counter affidavit. Notice to the remaining
 respondents shall be served through the State of Gujarat within a period of two weeks. Until further orders, the trial in the following cases shall remain stayed: - 2. Criminal Case No.275/2002 arising out of FIR No.46/2002 dated 28.2.2002 of Police Station Bijaypur,
titled State v. Patel Rameshbhai Kanjibhai & Ors. pending in the Court of Sessions Judge, Mehsana,
Gujarat; 3. ARISING OUT OF FIR NO.67/2002 DATED 28.2.2002 OF POLICE STATION MEGHANINAGAR: pending in the Metropolitan Magistrate Court No.XI, Ahmedabad; (iv)Criminal Case No.524/2002 titled State v. Vishal Badrilal Nayee & Ors. pending in the
 Juvenile Court No.IV, Ahmedabad; 4.ARISING OUT OF FIR NO.100/2002 DATED 28.2.2002 OF POLICE STATION NARODA, AHMEDABAD: Learned counsel for the petitioner in TP(Crl) Nos.194-202/2003 prays for and is permitted to amend the
petitions for including the Sessions trial arising out of CR No.23/2002 and CR No.27/ 2002 (ODE
Massacre). However, further trial in those cases shall remain stayed. List on 19th December, 2003. SLP(Cr) 4409/2003. Issue notice. Ms.H. Wahi, learned counsel accepts notice. She prays for and is allowed two weeks’ time to file reply. In the meantime, further trial in Sessions Case No.180/2002 shall remain stayed. List along with WP(Crl)
No.109/2003 etc.

…..”
 (emphasis supplied) 9 (d) In the subsequent order passed in the group of petitions on

17.8.2004, this Court directed that in cases where ‘A’ Summary

Report(s) had been filed (around 2000 cases) should be further

investigated by the concerned Range Inspector Generals of Police in

the State of Gujarat, who should ascertain the correctness or

otherwise of such reports. In this appeal, we are not concerned with

those cases. (e) As noted earlier, this matter emanates from the complaint filed

by appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri on 8.6.2006 addressed to the

Director General of Police, Gujarat and other high officials including

Mr. D.A. Vaghela, P.I., Sector 21 Police Station, opposite Old

Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar, the Chief Secretary, State of Gujarat,

Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar and the Home Secretary, State of

Gujarat, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar. We shall advert to the contents

of this complaint in detail a little later. (f) Broadly stated, in this complaint, appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri

mentioned names of 63 persons, who according to her, were also

involved in larger conspiracy and abetment of the crime resulting in

carnage between February, 2002 and May, 2002, that shook the 10 State of Gujarat. This allegation was against the then Chief Minister

and Ministers of the State, as well as high police officials and

bureaucrats and others for having committed offence under Section

302 read with Section 120B, Section 193 read with Section 114 and Sections 185 , 153A , 186 and 187 of the Indian Penal Code11 and

Section 6 of the Commission of Inquiry Act, 195212 and also under

various provisions of the Gujarat Police Act, 195113 and the Human

Rights Act, 199114. (g) Appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri alongwith Ms. Teesta Setalvad

being the Secretary of Citizens for Justice and Peace forum, then

filed an application before the High Court on 1.3.2007 bearing

Special Criminal Application No. 421/2007 under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India read with Section 482 of the Code. During the pendency of the said petition before the High Court, the

Tehelka Tape surfaced, which according to the appellant, unravelled

the role of the concerned persons being involved in the build-up to

the commission of crime including conspiring and abetting the 11 for short, “ IPC ” 12 for short, “the 1952 Act” 13 for short, “the 1951 Act” 14 for short, “the 1991 Act” 11 State-wide violence. Be that as it may, the stated writ petition filed

before the High Court was finally dismissed on 2.11.2007, in which

the Court passed the following order: - Officers at Sl Nos. 3 to 5 are IG rank officers. Shri
Raghavan will be the chairman of the committee and Ms.
Geeta Johri shall be the convener. The committee shall in
its first meeting work out the modalities to be adopted for
the purpose of enquiry/investigation. If any person wants
to make statement before the SIT for giving his or her
version of the alleged incidents, the SIT shall record it.
Those who want to give their version shall in writing
intimate the convenor of the committee so that the
SIT can call him or her for the purpose of recording
his/her statement. It is needless to say that the SIT
shall not confine the investigation by recording
statement of those who come forward to give his or her
version and shall be free to make such
inquiries/investigation as felt necessary by it. The
State Government shall provide necessary infrastructure
and provide resources for effective working of the SIT. The
report of the SIT shall be furnished to this Court in a
sealed cover after completion of the
inquiry/investigation for which three months time is
granted. After the report is submitted, the further
action required to be taken shall be dealt with by this
Court. The SIT shall conduct inquiries/investigations
including further investigation in the following cases:- Kailash Lalchand Dhobhi & Ors. ii) Criminal Case No.1720/2002 titled State V/s.
 Shankarji Hakaji Mali pending Metro Magistrate
 court, Ahmedabad iii) Criminal Case No.296/2003 titled State V.
 Sandeep pending in the Metropolitan Magistrate
 court, Ahmedabad iv) Criminal Case No.524/2002 titled State V.
 Vishal Badrilal Nayee & Ors. pending in the
 Junenile court, Ahmedabad

IV. NARODA PATIYA
Arising out of FIR No.100/2002 dated 28.2.2002 of PS
Naroda, Ahmedabad i) CR No.982/2002 titled State v. Naresh Chahra pending in MM Court, Ahmedabad ii) CR No.1662/2002 titled State V. Padmendra Singh
 & Ors . V. ODE ANAND DISTRICT
Cr.Nos.23/2002 and 27/2002 (Ode Massacre). Leave was
granted to petitioners, CJP, to amend petition to include
these Session Trials. Trials were stayed. VI. NARODA GAON
Inadvertently left out. CJP filed a TP(Crl.) No.233/2004
and trial was stayed on 23.8.2004. VII. W.P.No.284/2003 TP(Crl.) No.43/2004 Imran Dawood
 Vs. Union of India . So far as SLP(Crl.) No.4409/2003 and Writ
Petition(Crl.) 216/2003 are concerned, though it is pointed
out by learned counsel by the State of Gujarat that the trial
is at concluding stage, in view of the orders passed in the
other cases, we feel it would be appropriate if the
inquiry/investigation including further investigation is
done, in this case also. The relevant case No.is FIR 60/02
commonly known as 'Deepda Darwaza'. So far as Writ
Petition(Crl.)No.284/03 and T.P.(Crl.)43/2004 are
concerned, the case is commonly known as 'British
Nationals Case' and relates to Himmat Nagar, Prantij P.S
district Sabarkantta and relates to FIR 1/26/2002. We make it clear that SIT shall be free to work out
the modalities and the norms required to be followed for
the purpose of inquiry/investigation including further
investigation. Needless to say the sole object of the
Criminal Justice System is to ensure that a person who is
guilty of an offence is punished. Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi, learned senior counsel had submitted
that in some cases the alleged victims themselves say that
wrong persons have been included by the police officials as
accused and the real culprits are sheltered. He, therefore,
suggested that trial should go on, notwithstanding the
inquiry/investigation including further investigation as
directed by us. We find that the course would not be
appropriate because if the trial continues and fresh
evidence/materials surface, it would require almost a
de novo trial which would be not desirable. These matters shall be listed for further directions in
the last week of August, 2008. The pleadings in all these matters be completed within
a period of three months.”

 (emphasis supplied) 16 (j) In furtherance of the above order, the SIT published a public

notice on 28.4.2008 inviting the public wanting to share information

and record their statement(s) before the SIT, as notified. After the

publication of notice, the SIT started recording statements of

concerned persons willing to depose before it including others as

directed by this Court. (k) In due course, the special leave petition filed by the appellant

being SLP(Crl.) No. 1088/2008 came up for hearing on 27.4.200917,

when this Court passed the following order: - (l) Nevertheless, vide judgment dated 1.5.200918, this Court

vacated the stay of the trials and directed the prosecution of cases

in Special Courts; and SIT appointed by it to submit progress report. The relevant extract of the said judgment reads thus: - to-day basis keeping in view the fact that the incidents are
of January 2002 and the trials already stand delayed by
seven years. The need for early completion of sensitive
cases more particularly in cases involving communal
disturbances cannot be overstated. (iii) SIT has suggested that the six “Fast Track Courts” be
designated by the High Court to conduct trial, on a day-to-
day basis, in the five districts as follows: In the facts and circumstances of the present case,
such Public Prosecutors shall be appointed in
consultation with the Chairman of SIT. The suggestions
of the State Government indicate acceptance of this
proposal. It shall be open to the Chairman of SIT to
seek change of any Public Prosecutor so appointed if
any deficiency in performance is noticed. If it appears
that a trial is not proceeding as it should, and the
Chairman of SIT is satisfied that the situation calls for
a change of the Public Prosecutor or the appointment
of an Additional Public Prosecutor, to either assist or
lead the existing Public Prosecutor, he may make a
request to this effect to the Advocate General of the
State, who shall take appropriate action in light of the
recommendation by SIT. (vi) If necessary and so considered appropriate SIT may
nominate officers of SIT to assist the Public Prosecutor
in the course of the trial. Such officer shall act as the
communication link between SIT and the Public
Prosecutor, to ensure that all the help and necessary
assistance is made available to such Public Prosecutor. (vii) The Chairman of SIT shall keep track of the
progress of the trials in order to ensure that they are
proceeding smoothly and shall submit quarterly
reports to this Court in regard to the smooth and
satisfactory progress of the trials. (viii) The stay on the conduct of the trials are vacated
in order to enable the trials to continue. In a number of
cases bail had been granted by the High Court/Sessions
Court principally on the ground that the trials had been
stayed. Wherever considered necessary, SIT can
request the Public Prosecutor to seek cancellation of
the bails already granted. (ix-i) For ensuring of a sense of confidence in the mind of
the victims and their relatives, and to ensure that 21 witnesses depose freely and fearlessly before the court, in
case of witnesses following steps shall be taken: (ix-ii) As far as the first and the second is concerned, SIT
shall be the nodal agency to decide as to which
witnesses require protection and the kind of witness
protection that is to be made available to such witness.
(ix-iii) In the case of the first and the second kind of
witness protection, the Chairman, SIT could, in
appropriate cases, decide which witnesses require
security of the paramilitary forces and upon his request
same shall be made available by providing necessary
security facilities. (ix-iv) In the third kind of a situation, where the
Chairman, SIT is satisfied that the witness requires to
be relocated outside the State of Gujarat, it would be
for the Union of India to make appropriate
arrangements for the relocation of such witness. The
Chairman, SIT shall send an appropriate request for this
purpose to the Home Secretary, Union of India, who would
take such steps as are necessary to relocate the witnesses.
(ix-v) All the aforesaid directions are to be considered by
SIT by looking into the threat perception, if any. (x) SIT would continue to function and carry out any
investigations that are yet to be completed, or any
further investigation that may arise in the course of
the trials. SIT would also discharge such functions as
have been cast upon them by the present order. (xi) If there are any matters on which directions are
considered necessary (including by way of change of Public
Prosecutors or witness protection), the Chairman of SIT
may (either directly or through the amicus curiae)
move this Court for appropriate directions. (xii) It was apprehension of some learned counsel that
 unruly situations may be created in court to terrorise
 witnesses. It needs no indication that the court shall have
 to deal with such situations sternly and pass necessary
 orders. SIT shall also look into this area. (xiii) Periodic three monthly reports shall be submitted
 by SIT to this Court in sealed covers. 41. List after four months.”
 (emphasis supplied)

It is thus noticed that this Court permitted trial of concerned (nine)

cases including the Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002 to

proceed. This judgment is also indicative of the high trust reposed

by this Court in the SIT including about directing the State

authorities to abide by the instructions given by the SIT. (m) As directed by this Court vide order dated 27.4.200919, the SIT

examined the complaint and also recorded statements of the

concerned persons. Mr. A.K. Malhotra, former DIG, CBI and a

member of the SIT recorded statements of total 187 witnesses and

Mr. Himanshu Shukla, DCP, Crime Branch and I.O., SIT examined

145 witnesses, in connection with the complaint of appellant – Zakia

Ahsan Jafri, dated 8.6.2006. A total of approximately 275 persons

were questioned by them in compliance with the direction given by 19 supra at footnote Nos. 4 and 17 23 this Court. Two new members came to be inducted in the SIT on

15.5.2009. When the investigation into the stated complaint was

ongoing, the SIT submitted last supplementary chargesheet in the

Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002, on 12.8.2009, which

fact was placed on record before this Court. (n) SLP(Crl.) No. 1088/2008 then came up for hearing on

19.1.2010 alongwith other cases. The Court was duly informed that

the SIT had submitted an interim report and asked for five months’

further time to complete the investigation in respect of complaint of

appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri, dated 8.6.2006. This Court granted

time till 30.4.2010. The order dated 19.1.2010, reads thus: - The progress report in Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 109 of
 2003 filed by the SIT is taken on record. The same be kept in the sealed covers.”

 (emphasis supplied)

In other words, this Court once again passed an interim order in

respect of trial in Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002,

directing the trial Court to proceed but not to pronounce the final

verdict. On 12.5.2010, the SIT submitted a report prepared by Mr.

A.K. Malhotra asking for time for further investigation to enquire into

the role of Mr. Gordhan Zadafia, the then Minister of State (Home),

Mr. M.K. Tandon, the then Joint Commissioner of Police, Sector-II,

Ahmedabad City and P.B. Gondia, the then DCP, Zone-IV,

Ahmedabad City. (p) This Court, on 26.10.2010, permitted Mr. Prashant Bhushan,

learned Amicus Curiae to withdraw from the case and instead

nominated Mr. Rohinton Fali Nariman, learned senior counsel (as he 26 then was) in his place, to assist the Court. In addition, the Court

directed handing over of the reports of Mr. A.K. Malhotra to the

Amicus Curiae, after taking it on record. This Court also lifted the

stay on the pronouncement of the judgment except in Gulberg

Society case being CR No. 67/2002. Relevant portion of the said

order dated 26.10.2010, reads thus: - (r) As noticed earlier, on one hand, the trial concerning Gulberg

Society case being CR No. 67/2002 involving the gruesome killing of

the husband of the appellant and others by a violent mob was

allowed to proceed by this Court even when the SIT was enquiring

into the complaint of appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri, dated 8.6.2006; and in that process, the deposition of Mr. Ashish Khaitan, senior

journalist (who had conducted the Tehelka Sting Operation) was 29 recorded by the trial Court on 2.8.2010, of Mr. Rahul Sharma on

15.9.2010 and of appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri on 22.10.2010. (s) Further investigation report came to be submitted before this

Court by Mr. Himanshu Shukla on 17.11.2010. On 23.11.201020,

Mr. Rohinton Fali Nariman, learned Amicus Curiae requested the

Court to allow him to withdraw from the case. That request was

acceded to by the Court and in his place, Mr. Raju Ramchandran

was appointed as Amicus Curiae to be assisted by Mr. Gaurav

Agrawal, learned counsel. The Court also directed handing over to

both the newly appointed Amicus Curiae, the reports of SIT. The

Amicus Curiae in turn examined the SIT reports concerning

complaint of appellant, dated 8.6.2006, and placed their

observations on record in the form of a note made over to the SIT. This Court then vide order dated 20.1.2011, directed thus: - cognizance of Crime Report No. 67 of 2002, as required
under Section 173(2) of the Code. Before submission of
its report, it will be open to SIT to obtain from the
amicus curiae copies of his reports submitted to this
Court. The said court will deal with the matter in
accordance with law relating to the trial of the
accused, named in the report/charge-sheet, including
matters falling within the ambit and scope of Section
173(8) of the Code. 11. However, at this juncture, we deem it necessary to
emphasise that if for any stated reason SIT opines in its
report, to be submitted in terms of this order, that there
is no sufficient evidence or reasonable grounds for
proceeding against any person named in the complaint
dated 8-6-2006, before taking a final decision on such
“closure” report, the court shall issue notice to the
complainant and make available to her copies of the
statements of the witnesses, other related documents and
the investigation report strictly in accordance with law as
enunciated by this Court in Bhagwant Singh v. Commr. of
Police , (1985) 2 SCC 537. For the sake of ready reference,
we may note that in the said decision , it has been held that
in a case where the Magistrate to whom a report is
forwarded under Section 173(2)(i) of the Code, decides not
to take cognizance of the offence and to drop the
proceedings or takes a view that there is no sufficient
ground for proceeding against some of the persons
mentioned in the FIR, the Magistrate must give notice to
the informant and provide him an opportunity to be heard
at the time of consideration of the report. 12. Having so directed, the next question is whether this
Court should continue to monitor the case any further.
The legal position on the point is made clear by this Court
in Union of India v. Sushil Kumar Modi , (1998) 8 SCC 661,
wherein, relying on the decision in Vineet Narain v. Union
of India , (1996) 2 SCC 199, a Bench of three learned
Judges had observed thus ( Sushil Kumar Modi case, (1998)
8 SCC 661: …..”
 (emphasis supplied)

(w) As per the direction given by this Court, the SIT presented its

final report on 8.2.2012 before the concerned Metropolitan

Magistrate, who had taken cognizance of Gulberg Society case being

CR No. 67/2002. (x) It appears that the appellant corresponded with the SIT, as well

as, the Magistrate for supplying certain documents. The Magistrate

vide order dated 10.4.2012, directed supply of partial documents

and on 16.5.2012, he rejected the request for granting rest of the

documents including enquiry report, further investigation report

and statements enclosed therewith. (y) This led to filing of SLP(Crl.) No. 8989/2012. This petition was

finally allowed on 7.2.2013 being converted into Criminal Appeal No.

273/2013. The order reads thus: - We have heard learned counsel appearing for the
appellant, State as well as the learned Amicus Curiae. On going into the earlier direction of this Court as well
as the impugned order passed by the Magistrate, we issue 41 the following directions. The appellant is entitled to have
 copies of the report dated May 12, 2010 in two volumes,
 excluding the Chairman’s comments forwarded to this
 Court. The appellant is also entitled to have copies of
 reports dated November 17, 2010 and April 24, 2011 filed
 under Section 173(8) of the Criminal Procedure Code,
 1973. Since the statements recorded contain signature,
 it is clarified that if the signed statements are
 supplied, the same shall be treated as statements made
 under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
 1973. It is further clarified that the statements recorded
 in the inquiry shall only be used in the proceedings
 relating to the complaint dated June 8, 2006 filed by
 the appellant and shall not be used for any other
 purpose or in connection with any other case. We also
 clarify that the present order is confined to the facts
 and circumstances of the complaint dated 8th June,
 2006 and shall not be treated as a precedent, in any
 other case. The appellant is granted eight weeks’ time for filing
 the protest petition from the date she gets the required
 copies as mentioned above. In view of the above conclusion and direction, the
 impugned orders of the learned Magistrate dated
 16.07.2012 and 27.11.2012 are set aside to the extent
 mentioned above. The appeal is disposed of in the above
 terms.”
 (emphasis supplied)

This order, besides issuing directions, as prayed regarding

furnishing of documents, also clarified the position that the

statements recorded by the SIT pursuant to the investigation

undertaken after 27.4.2009 in respect of the allegations in complaint

dated 8.6.2006, be treated as statements of witnesses under Section 42 161 of the Code, which, however, cannot be used for any other

purpose including the trial of Gulberg Society case being CR No.

67/2002. (z) Only after getting all the material accompanying the report,

appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri proceeded to file a protest petition on

15.4.2013 before the Metropolitan Magistrate. The Magistrate, after

considering the protest petition and the final report of the SIT dated

8.2.2012, by a speaking order dated 26.12.2013, rejected the protest

petition filed by appellant and accepted the final (closure) report filed

by the SIT and passed consequential order. (aa) Against this decision, appellant carried the matter before the

High Court by way of the stated criminal revision application, which

came to be disposed of vide impugned judgment and order dated

5.10.2017, with liberty to appellant to agitate the issue of further

investigation upon availability of new material/information. Against

the said decision, the present appeal from special leave has been

filed. (bb) To complete the narration of relevant facts, we may also advert

to the order passed by this court on 13.4.2017 in W.P.(Crl.) No. 43 109/2003, commending the efforts of the SIT as well, while relieving

the Chairman of the SIT from his responsibility. The said order

reads thus: - For the reasons brought to our notice, we hereby 1 relieve Shri
 K. Venkatesham from the duties vested in him as a member of
 the SIT. 4. In the above view of the matter, we would request the
 remaining member of the SIT, namely, Shri A.K. Malhotra, to
 continue to discharge the responsibility hereto before entrusted
 to the SIT, himself. Shri A.K. Malhotra shall furnish quarterly
 reports to this Court. 5. Post for hearing in the last week of July, 2017.” 44 SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT 6. (a) The thrust of the argument was broadly two pronged. The

first being the SIT has jumped to the conclusion that no offence is

made out against the persons named in the complaint/protest

petition despite material and statements collated by it during

investigation indicating to the contrary. Additionally, the failure of

the SIT to investigate into crucial allegations/material referred to in

the protest petition. (b) The second is about the failure of the Metropolitan Magistrate

in exercising the powers vested in him including to take cognizance

of the offence and in not directing further investigation by the SIT in

respect of certain matters. Even the High Court has committed the

same fatal error. Reliance is placed on Vishnu Kumar Tiwari vs.

State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr.27 , to buttress these points. As held

in Abhinandan Jha & Ors. vs. Dinesh Mishra28 , there is no

obligation on the Magistrate to accept the final report. It is open to

the Magistrate to take cognizance if he is so satisfied by invoking 27 (2019) 8 SCC 27 (paras 7, 17, 27, 28, 32, 33 and 42) 28 AIR 1968 SC 117 = 1967 (3) SCR 668 (at page 678) (para 15 and 21) 45 powers under Section 190(1)(c) of the Code including to direct

further investigation. (c) The appellant in the protest petition had articulated broad

grounds on which final SIT report was being opposed. The same

read thus: - Such substance exists against all the accused. There 46 are witnesses and documents to cast reasonable doubt
against the conduct of all the accused and pointing
towards their culpability. For instance, the statements
of senior officers like RB Sreekumar, Rahul Sharma,
Sanjiv Bhatt as well as the Tehelka tapes (validated by
the Sessions Court) are enough to file a charge sheet/
take cognizance. Instead of doing this, the SIT has acted
like a super court dissecting every bit of evidence,
turning and twisting it, ignoring relevant material and
accepting uncorroborated irrelevant material to
somehow whitewash this entire exercise. Worse the SIT
has deliberately and manifestly ignored the huge
voluminous evidence that is available on record. SIT has
acted beyond its jurisdiction as an Investigating Agency.
In fact this Hon'ble Court ought to disregard the SIT
Report altogether and look at the gathered evidence
independently to arrive at the conclusion that
cognizance ought to be taken. f) Apart from anything it needs to be verified whether
the Closure Report is based on a collective application
of mind by SIT as a whole or not. Large number of
documents/ statements are in Gujarati. Admittedly
they have not been translated. Majority of the SIT
members cannot read Gujarati. In order to decide the
weight to be attributed to each of the statements/
document it was necessary that the SIT, as a collective
applied its mind to these documents. In the absence of
any translations it is not clear as to how the SIT has
come to the conclusions it has arrived at. g) The Petitioner submits that against each of the
accused there is sufficient material to take cognizance
of offences of conspiracy and abetment, subversion of
public justice, destruction and suppression of evidence,
of rioting, theft, robbery, murder, attempt to commit
murder, etc. Besides, against many of the accused
Charge Sheets should have also been filed for hate
speech. h) SIT should have considered that once a public
servant is held to be negligent in performing his duties,
and if any criminal offence has taken place, he ought to
be automatically charged with abetment. This is so
because the definition of abetment includes acts as well
as omissions. SIT has come to the conclusion that 47 Accused Nos - 33 then Joint Commissioner of Police MK
Tandon and then DCP Zone IV PB Gandia, were
negligent in their duties: Having arrived at this
conclusion, SIT had no option but to charge them with
the criminal offence of abetment at least as the
negligence did result in offences being committed or not
being prevented. i) SIT should have held that the statements and the
documents which have been gathered make out a clear
case of conspiracy against all including Accused No. 1. j) The Petitioner submits that as has been held by
various courts a conspiracy is usually hatched in
secrecy and very rarely there is direct evidence of this.
The offence can only be proved largely from inference
drawn from acts or illegal omissions committed by the
conspirators. Even at the time of trial, there need not be
proof of express agreement. The agreement can be
proved by necessary implication. Besides, it is not
necessary that all the conspirators participate in all the
offences resulting from the conspiracy though they
would be liable for each one of them. k) In the present case direct evidence exists in terms of
Sanjiv Bhatt 's testimony about at least one part of the
conspiracy being hatched at the meeting held on
27.2.2002. Once this evidence is available it is for the
trial court to decide what weight to attribute to it. It is
not for the Investigating Agency to dissect this evidence
with a view to discredit the same. l) In any event, without prejudice to whether Mr. Modi
made the statement attributed to him in the meeting on
27.2.2002 the fact that the meeting took place is not
disputed. One has to therefore to look at the subsequent
and prior events to decide as to what could have
transpired at this meeting. It is obvious that as the
event reflect a conspiracy was hatched at this meeting
to allow the people to vent their anger (justified or
otherwise, instigated or otherwise, organized or
otherwise) and not to intervene when offences are
committed. In addition the forces were encouraged to
abet this ire and to assist the people in venting it and at
times to participate in it. Anyone who tried to maintain 48 law and order was penalized. The conspiracy was very
clear and played out over the next few days. m) The Petitioner further submits that the offences of
conspiracy and abetment along with the responsibilities
of public servants have, independently or together
introduced the concept of command responsibility
under our criminal law. Therefore any public servant
shall be criminally responsible for crimes committed by
forces or officers under his or her effective authority and
control, as a result of his failure to exercise control
(preventive or punitive) over these crimes. This would
include the Chief Minister/ Home Minister, other
Ministers, police and bureaucratic top brass. This is
more so since in the present case they knew or owing to
the circumstances at the time, should have known that
the forces were committing or about to commit such
crimes. It is further because the said public servants
failed to take all necessary and reasonable steps to
prevent or repress their commission or to submit the
matter to the competent authority for investigation or
prosecution. n) The Chief Minister/ Home Minister was directly in
charge of law and order in the State. Under his aegis
crimes were committed. No steps were taken to curb
these crimes. Just to give an example, preventive
arrests were essential once the Bandh call was made.
These are required for prevent commission of offence.
No such arrests were made making the Home Minister
downwards all responsible for crimes having been
committed for failure to carry out preventive arrests.
Besides, if instructions were given to make preventive
arrests and they were not carried out then failure to
take steps against the officers for not having done
preventive arrests itself will amount to failure to
discharge duties as a public servant and abetment. o) SIT has misdirected itself in looking at the allegations
and events in a piecemeal manner rather that a holistic
manner. What was needed to be done was to look at
events prior to 27.2.2002, on 27.2.2002 and
subsequent to 27.2.2002 to see if a common thread
emerges. If this was done an obvious and apparent link
between all these events and conduct of the accused
comes out which would be sufficient to charge them 49 with conspiracy and abetment, apart from other
 offences. p) We further submit that offences under S.153 A and
 B have been made out against accused who were
 charged with the same in our complaint and the SIT
 ought to have filed Charge Sheets in respect of the
 same.” (d) Besides the aforesaid points, in the course of arguments and

in the written submissions, it has been urged as follows: - (2) The complaint dated 8.6.2006 was only a piece of

information. The stand taken by the SIT that allegations

beyond complaint cannot be looked at, is legally untenable. If

such a plea is countenanced, it would result in equating with,

or limit the enquiry as in the case of scrutiny of a plaint in a

civil suit, wherein the plaintiff is bound by the

averments/contents of the complaint. The order passed by this

Court directing the SIT to “look into” the complaint, in no way

constricted the jurisdiction of the Magistrate to direct scrutiny

of allegations, which come to the fore, consequent to filing of

protest petition. (3) The fact that appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri was relegated

by this Court to file protest petition if the situation so

warranted, was not to curtail the powers of the Magistrate

including to direct further investigation. In fact, the order of

this Court indicates that it was open to the Magistrate to

exercise all powers vested in him for dealing with the issues

that may arise upon presentation of final SIT report and protest

petition by appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri. (4) It is significant to note that the complaint dated 8.6.2006

 referred to matters not limited to events unfolding in and

 around the Gulberg Society crime, but also about the series of

 activities and actions pointing towards the instructions being

 issued from the highest authority bordering on conspiracy and

 abetment. The order of this Court dated 7.2.2013 reinforces

 the stand taken by the appellant that the Magistrate had ample

 power to issue directions to SIT for further investigation into

 the relevant matters including referred to in the protest

 petition. Reliance was placed on Abhinandan Jha29 and

 Popular Muthiah vs. State represented by Inspector of

 Police30. (5) It is urged that it was the duty of the Magistrate to issue

 process and only after recording the evidence of the concerned

 witnesses, a conclusion could be reached about the

 truthfulness of the version and the piece of evidence in support 29 supra at footnote No. 28 30 (2006) 7 SCC 296 (paras 21 and 54) 52 of the accusation. Reliance was placed on State of Gujarat

 vs. Afroz Mohammed Hasanfatta31 . (6) According to the appellant, following issues have not been

 dealt with by the Magistrate and the Gujarat High Court: (2019) 20 SCC 539 (paras 16, 17, 22 and 39) 32 for short, “SIB” 53 (ii) Detailed documentary evidence from the SIT

investigation papers pieced together meticulously in the

protest petition reveals that SIB Messages had noted

systematic and violent mobilisations all over the State

on 27.2.2002 within minutes of the Godhra tragedy. Despite these warnings, neither the Home Department

nor the law-and-order machinery made preventive

arrests or protected innocent lives. Kar Sevaks with

saffron scarves continued shouting anti-Muslim

slogans after incident; more VHP workers gathered at

spot and even after curfew had been declared at 10 a.m.

Even after deployment of SRP and Railway police

reinforcements, attempts to burn Muslim shops was

taking place at Godhra. Since the investigation of the

Godhra incident was by the Railway Police, it was their

responsibility to deal with dead bodies. (iii) By about 1.00 p.m. in the afternoon violent and

murderous attacks at Vadodara and Anand had taken 54 place and by the evening the same had spread far and

wide across the state. (iv) VHP Press Release carried exaggerated accounts of

the Godhra incident. By the evening and late night of

27.2.2002, SIB messages from Godhra to Bhavnagar,

Mehsana to Viramgam (far flung districts of Gujarat)

recorded aggressive mobilization and provocative

speeches being made exhorting the mob/citizens to

attack Muslims. (v) An analysis of phone call records officially

procured by former IPS officer – Mr. Rahul Sharma and

presented to the Nanavati-Shah Commission, had been

made and evidence of elected representatives talking to

some of the offenders/accused etc. was presented to the

SIT. The following aspects were not substantively

investigated. For example: (5) Ahmedabad city recorded 14 Incidents of
targeted Violence even as the VHP and its
members continued making incendiary and
inflammatory speeches. documentary evidence of such more instances of
 attacks and aggression including hate speech,
 the SIT concealed these in its final report and
 deliberately avoided recording of any conclusion
 therein. (e) The SIT has clearly failed to take into account the material

appended to the complaint dated 8.6.2006, such as report titled

“Crimes and Humanity” published in 2002 by the Concerned

Citizens Tribunal33, headed by former Judges of this Court and

affidavits filed by the officials of the State before the Nanavati-Shah

Commission. The narrative discernible from this material has not

been examined by the SIT in its proper perspective despite

suggestive of strong case for investigation into a systemic and

widespread conspiracy of subversion and inaction by law

enforcement, bureaucracy and elected representatives entailing in

systemic outbreak and spread of targeted violence across the State. for short, “CCT” 57 Even the NHRC had to step in to force the State to take corrective

measures and ensure justice to the riot victim survivors. (f) It was urged that the SIT was expected to follow the procedure

prescribed by law while dealing with the materials/statements

collated during investigation and more particularly, relied upon by

the appellant. As a matter of fact, the SIT failed to investigate into

the crucial aspects referred to in the protest petition. It is submitted

that the rationale for protest petition has been expounded in

Abhinandan Jha34 and Bhagwant Singh vs. Commissioner of

Police & Anr.35 It is not only open to the informant to file protest

petition, but also to any injured person on all aspects concerning the

complicity of concerned persons in the commission of alleged crime. That is what was perceived by this Court while disposing of the

special leave petition filed by the appellant in the earlier round, vide

judgment and order dated 12.9.201136. The real intent and purpose

of the direction issued by this Court in the earlier round has been 34 supra at footnote No. 28 35 supra at footnote No. 21 36 supra at footnote No. 26 58 whittled down by the SIT, as well as, by the Courts in not examining

all aspects raised by the appellant by way of protest petition. (g) In support of this grievance, emphasis is placed on the nature

of enquiry done by the SIT in respect of Tehelka Sting Operation,

and in not examining the crucial witnesses. The contents of sting

operation were clearly indicative of the genesis of communal

violence, which transformed lava erupting from a volcano, destroying

the fertile ground. The SIT had glossed over crucial materials, such

as statement of Dhawal Jayantilal Patel, the then VHP District

Convener, Sabarkantha and Anil Patel, VHP Vibhag Pramukh,

Sabarkantha on the specious plea of the efficacy of the extra judicial

confession of another person. Reliance is placed on the decision of

this Court in H.N. Rishbund & Anr. vs. State of Delhi37 and Gura

Singh vs. State of Rajasthan38 . (h) The Courts (Magistrate/High Court) have failed to deal with the

allegations pertaining to sting operation indicative of build-up before

the incident and support of the high authority. Allegations against 37 AIR 1955 SC 196 = 1955 1 SCR 1150 (at pages 1155-1157) 38 (2001) 2 SCC 205 (para 6) 59 Mr. Anil Patel were not investigated nor was he arrested, despite the

extra judicial confession on record to indicate his complicity. No

question has been put to him regarding Tehelka Tape and its

contents. Similarly, the Magistrate has erred by going into the

veracity/truthfulness or otherwise of the material on record. That

could be done only at the stage of trial. The limited role of the

Magistrate at this stage is to prima facie examine the material on

record to find out the case of reasonable suspicion to take

cognizance of the crime against the named offenders, as held in S.K.

Sinha, Chief Enforcement Officer vs. Videocon International

Ltd. & Ors.39 . (i) It is further urged that in the interests of justice, as the detailed

protest petition alongwith exhaustive documentary evidence was

presented, the Magistrate ought to have taken it as a complaint and

directed further investigation in respect of issues raised therein. In

the protest petition, the complainant has dealt with whole series of

events and supporting documents and not a single or stray

document from the investigation record, and relying on the totality 39 (2008) 2 SCC 492 (para 22) 60 of the circumstances, the allegation regarding larger criminal

conspiracy has been set forth. It is her case that the incident of

violence across the State of Gujarat after Godhra incident on

27.2.2002, was encouraged and condoned and overtly supported by

the State Government owing to their actions and omissions on the

part of the State constituting criminal conspiracy. The actors in the

said criminal conspiracy were broadly in four groups. To wit,

political establishment, bureaucrats, police officers and private

organisations and individuals. (j) It has been further asserted that the Magistrate and the High

Court have failed to deal with the following aspects in the context of

issues raised in the protest petition: - It has been mentioned in the protest petition that the

 establishment allowed generation of deepened feeling of hatred

 towards a particular community, as can be discerned from the

 SIB record/messages from at least 12.2.2002 onwards and also

 transcript of the Tehelka Sting Operation. (ii) The second is about the inaction of the named

 offender/political/police/bureaucrat functionaries after being

 intimated about Godhra incident, hate speeches and mob

 mobilizations across the State on 27.2.2002. (iii) The third is about the inaction/non-response of all the

 authorities including police, fire brigade, other functionaries,

 by not promptly deploying Army, imposing curfew and taking

 preventive measures and making prompt arrests of the culprits

 after outbreak of mass violence across the State post

 27.2.2002. (k) The ingredients of the conspiracy had been outlined in the

complaint dated 8.6.2006 and restated with further details and

evidence in the protest petition in the shape of the actual official

messages indicative of systemic build-up of communal tension

before 27.2.2002. The transcript of Tehelka Sting Operation

reinforces the facts stated in the said messages. Notably, the tapes

of the sting operation have been authenticated by the CBI

consequent to direction given by the NHRC and in fact, used by SIT

in the cases investigated by them pursuant to the direction of this 62 Court. These crucial aspects are suggestive of larger criminal

conspiracy. However, the same had been conveniently glossed over

by the SIT. (l) To buttress the usefulness of Tehelka Sting Operation, the

appellant is relying on the transcripts of Mr. Anil Patel, VHP Vibhag

Pramukh, Sabarkantha, Mr. Deepak Shah, member of BJP,

Vadodara Unit, Mr. Haresh Bhatt, VHP and Bajrang Dal member,

Mr. Rajendra Vyas, President, VHP, Ahmedabad City, Mr. Ramesh

Dave, Kalupur Zila Mantri, VHP and Babu Bajrangi, a Bajrang Dal

activist to urge that these were in the nature of extra judicial

confessions and the persons should have been proceeded for

appropriate offence in the context of their utterances and

disclosures. These transcripts were so revealing that no person with

ordinary prudence would disagree with the stand of the appellant

that the same are replete with strong suspicion, warranting penal

action. The Magistrate, however, disregarded this sting operation by

relying on the dictum of this Court in Piara Singh & Ors. vs. State

of Punjab40 . Whereas the issue regarding admissibility of extra 40 (1977) 4 SCC 452 63 judicial confession is a triable issue and cannot be answered at this

stage. (m) As a matter of fact, Mr. Ashish Khaitan, the author/maker of

the sting operation, had been examined as prosecution witness by

the SIT including in Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002. Even for this reason, it was not open to the SIT or the Courts to

disregard the said material at this stage. By disregarding such

tangible and clinching material, the SIT had attempted to protect the

named offenders. (n) It is further urged that the SIT has not even chosen to appeal

against acquittals in Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002 for

reasons best known to them. In substance, there was clear evidence

regarding conspiracy and corroborated by sting operation and the

affidavit of Mr. R.B. Sreekumar, an IPS officer [the then Additional

Director General of Police (Intelligence)], which have been

conveniently discarded by the SIT and by the Courts. (o) The requisition of the NHRC order by the SIT (directing CBI to

authenticate Tehelka Sting Operation and the CBI’s detailed report

on the same), was followed by a submission of the entire complete 64 authenticated transcripts of the Tehelka Sting Operation by the

appellant to the SIT investigating her original complaint (dated

8.6.2006) vide letter dated 24.3.2010. In that communication, the

appellant also mentioned in detail, various aspects of the matter that

need to be thoroughly investigated by the SIT, given the evidence in

these extrajudicial confessions of a wider conspiracy and abetment

to widespread targeted crimes. The detailed letter by the appellant

to the SIT indicating the issues that need to be investigated, is a

testimony of the fact that the investigating agency is being urged

since 2010 to investigate the Sting Operation thoroughly. The

complete transcripts, total 490 pages, had been provided to the SIT

by the appellant. (p) In the detailed authentication document of the CBI, the CBI

officer authenticates the Sting Operation after forensic voice-tests

were performed on those on whom the Sting Operation was

conducted. In the said Authentication Report, the CBI officer says: This is for information of NHRC and comments/ instructions,

 if any. 16. This is for the information of NHRC and necessary action

 at their end please against High Court order.” (q) Meanwhile, the SIT appointed by this Hon’ble Court, whose

mandate of investigation was extended, to also investigate the wider

conspiracy into the violence that rocked the State of Gujarat in 2002, 66 recorded the statement of Mr. Ashish Khaitan on 27.8.2009, the

reporter who carried out the Sting Operation. (r) In a parallel development that further gives authenticity and

legitimacy to the Sting Operation, Mr. Ashish Khaitan deposed as

prosecution witness (PW-322) in the Naroda Patiya case on

19.12.2011. On 29.8.2012, in its judgement convicting 31 persons

of the widespread massacre at Naroda Patiya, the Special Sessions

Judge made strong observations accepting the Sting Operation as

corroborative evidence. On the basis of this validation, two persons

were convicted in this case. (s) Notably, the SIT appointed by this Hon’ble Court who

investigated the Zakia Jafri complaint dated 8.6.2006 was/is also

the prosecuting agency in the trials transferred to the SIT for further

investigation including the Naroda Patiya and Naroda Gaam trial. It

is, therefore, inexplicable and clear evidence of the compromised

nature of the SIT investigation despite being the agency entrusted

with a sensitive task by this Court, who failed to thoroughly

investigate the leads and implications laid out in the 67 conversations/extra-judicial confessions revealed in Tehelka Sting

Operation. (t) It has been urged that relevant facts noticeable from the

transcript of the Sting Operation regarding manufacture of arms and

bombs, bringing in the same from neighbouring States and other

aspects of wider conspiracy elucidated therein, have been completely

ignored by the SIT and also by the Courts. The transcripts also

reveal the involvement of senior officers of the Court, Advocates and

public prosecutors, whose names are mentioned in the SIB

messages in the build-up and communal mobilizations and

reportedly involved in the intimidation and browbeating of senior

serving officer (Mr. R.B. Sreekumar) prior to his deposition before

the Nanavati-Shah Commission. It was, therefore, essential that the

Magistrate should have directed further investigation into these

aspects. (u) The original complaint submitted by appellant - Zakia Ahsan

Jafri relies on slew of 23,000 pages of official record and non-official

documents and records indicative of inaction/failure of public 68 servants and elected representatives bordering on carefully woven

conspiracy. (v) There was message indicating stockpiling of arms and also

mob-gathering with impunity from the early morning of 28.2.2002

when the dead bodies were brought to Sola Civil Hospital,

Ahmedabad and breaking out of violence. However, no police force

was deputed. Aftermath violence, there was no response from the

fire brigade despite 45 distress calls being made by hapless citizens,

who were attacked by armed mob intending to kill and burn them. No arrests were made of the aggressors, much less preventive

arrests. (w) The loss of life in such mass violence was mainly of persons

belonging to minority community. The unruly mob was emboldened

because of the Bandh call supported by the State. The women and

children were also not spared during such violence and the police

remained a silent spectator. (x) After the outbreak of violence post-Godhra, SIB report(s)

submitted by Mr. R.B. Sreekumar dated 24.2.2002, 15.6.2002,

20.8.2002 and 28.8.2002 to the Home Department were deliberately 69 ignored. These reports had suggested strong corrective measures

for restoration of normalcy. (y) Even the report submitted by Mr. E. Radhakrishnan, an IPS

officer (the then Deputy IG) to the Director General of Police, as late

as August, 2002, recommending remedial measures, was not acted

upon despite the spread of communal violence reported from 993

villages and 151 towns covering 284 police stations (out of 464 police

stations) spread over to 154 Assembly constituencies out of 182

Assembly constituencies. (z) The statements made by Mr. Maniram, ADGP (Law and Order),

Mr. P.C. Pande, the then Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad, Mr.

K. Chakravarthi, Director General of Police, Gujarat and Mr. Ashok

Narayan, Additional Chief Secretary (Home), reveal the deliberate

inaction and failure of the high officials and elected representatives. To aggravate the situation, there was intentional delay in

deployment of Army and declaring curfew at the earliest opportunity. (aa) The SIT has also not enquired into the matters highlighted in

the report of NHRC nor made any attempt to record any statement

of officials or the Chairperson of the Commission. The NHRC report 70 refers to several aspects including experience of a sitting Judge of

the High Court owing to the violent mob entering his premises. The

Statement of the Judge had not been recorded by the SIT. (bb) The Courts have also failed to deal with the material regarding

provocative behaviour followed by mass mobilizations and hate

speeches post 27.2.2002 as part of the wider conspiracy. The SIB

officer had communicated to the headquarters as early as 12:30 pm,

on that day itself, that there were reports that some dead bodies of

Godhra victims would be brought to Kalupur Railway Station,

Ahmedabad, which may result in causing communal disturbance all

across. Despite such warning, neither the Home Department nor the

law-and-order machinery took preventive measures to protect the

innocent lives and more so, even after growing violence and

murderous attacks at Vadodara and Anand happening by the

evening and spreading across the State. On the other hand, no

action had been taken against VHP office bearers for issuing press

release exaggerating the accounts of Godhra incident. (cc) It was urged that the final (closure) report was erroneously

tendered by the SIT before the Metropolitan Magistrate and not in 71 the sessions trial concerning Gulberg Society case being CR No.

67/2002. (dd) The SIT also failed to thoroughly investigate the messages of

the SIB, which formed part of the affidavit of Mr. R.B. Sreekumar,

and was made available to the SIT. The contents of these messages

support the allegation of build-up of a conspiracy even prior to

27.2.2002, in respect of which no corrective steps had been taken

by the administration and persons in authority. (ee) There was enough material with the SIT regarding the factum

of hasty post-mortems carried out on the dead bodies in open

Railway yard under the directions from the highest authority, so as

to ignite emotions giving fillip/impetus to build up and cause

communal disturbances and widespread violence. Not only that, the

charred bodies of dead persons were caused to be paraded and

allowed to be taken by private person (VHP office bearer) in open

vehicles from Godhra to Ahmedabad without observing essential

protocols for the same purpose. Relying on Rule 223 in the Gujarat

Police Manual, it was urged that despite the prohibition, the

photographs of mutilated bodies were taken and no enquiry in that 72 regard has been made. None of the statements recorded by the SIT

explain as to why such photographs were allowed. (ff) There is contradiction in two different reports submitted by the

SIT before this Court and support the allegation of preparation for

organising widespread violence after Godhra event. (gg) The authorities produced the relevant contemporaneous

official record after lapse of almost nine years, although it was very

much available with the Government even earlier when it was

required to produce before the concerned forum. That was not done

on the specious plea of non-availability of such a record. (hh) No investigation has been done regarding the factum of

intentional delay in imposing curfew and to bring in Army including

for its immediate deployment by providing logistical assistance to

control the overwhelming situation across the State of Gujarat, in

particular, immediately after the carnage in the morning of

27.2.2002 at Godhra. (ii) The SIT has not properly dealt with the role of Mr. M.K. Tandon

and his acts of commissions and omissions warranting penal action. (jj) There was enough material to suggest that the police

administration was under complete control of political heavyweights

and Ministers under instructions from the top (Chief Minister). That

was evident from the presence of the Ministers in the police Control

Room and issuing directions to the local police. (kk) According to the appellant, the facts emerging from the

materials referred to in the protest petition are so telling that no

other inference except that the named persons had committed

offence, can be drawn, particularly regarding larger conspiracy. In

that, no preventive measures were taken either before the episode of

Godhra on 27.2.2002, or even thereafter, despite the seriousness

and sensitivity of the situation. No preventive arrests were made

and if at all done in two cases, it was against the persons belonging

to minority community. Further, when the violence erupted across

the State, no effort to douse the emotions of the violent mob was

seen to be taken by the persons in authority, both by political

dispensation and bureaucracy and police. The persons indulging in

the gruesome activity were not arrested, much less stopped from

doing so. Furthermore, when it came to investigation, ‘A’ Summary 74 Report(s) came to be filed in most of the cases, which was a clear

reflection on the failure of police administration, investigating such

horrendous crime. Intriguingly, the persons who were arrested by

the local police, were released on bail or interim bail obviously

because of the (intentional) lackadaisical approach of the public

prosecutor(s). Not only that, the investigating machinery opted to

accept the version of the offender as a gospel truth and doubted the

statements of the victims of crime. The malice not only pervaded in

the local police, but also in the manner of investigation by the Court

appointed SIT. No investigation whatsoever has been done regarding

pre-Godhra incident conspiracy, carrying funeral procession on the

basis of instructions to officials and handing over dead bodies for

that purpose to private persons (Hasmukh Patel, Secretary of the

Eastern Wing of VHP, Ahmedabad and Jaideep Patel, Gujarat

Secretary of VHP, Naroda Gao/Gaam, Ahmedabad) including issuing

instructions from the top (Chief Minister) to all the officials to give

free hand to the mob. Even post Godhra incident, conspiracy before

the unfolding of the violence across the State on 28.2.2002 has not

been taken note of nor any FIR registered in that behalf, much less 75 any investigation done by local police or for that matter, Court

appointed SIT. (ll) The SIT, as well as, the Courts have dealt with statements of

the concerned persons recorded by the SIT as gospel truth and have

arrived at conclusion on that basis. This, amongst others, is a

manifest error committed in dealing with the issues on hand. The

Magistrate while dealing with the protest petition and the final report

ought to have applied the scale of strong suspicion emanating from

the materials collected by the SIT. And that was enough to proceed

against the perpetrators. From the undisputed document(s), even a

layman would be able to decipher that a case of strong suspicion

about the involvement of the named persons in the commission of

offence has been clearly made out. Reliance is placed on State of

Bihar vs. Ramesh Singh41 and State (Delhi Admn .) vs. I.K.

Nangia & Anr.42 to urge that if suspicion can be deduced from the

record, that would be enough for Magistrate to take cognizance. It

is further urged that even if it is not a case of strong suspicion, the

Magistrate was obliged to direct the SIT to do further investigation 41 (1977) 4 SCC 39 42 (1980) 1 SCC 258 (para 6) 76 on relevant aspects/allegations including in respect of matters

outside the complaint, but specifically noted in the protest petition. It was the bounden duty of the Magistrate to so direct, and also

primary responsibility of the SIT to investigate every piece of

information which had come to the fore by way of complaint or the

protest petition. (mm) It is submitted that the larger conspiracy material was not

investigated in Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002 and for

that reason, it was essential to investigate every aspect regarding

larger conspiracy. (nn) It is submitted that the stand taken by the SIT on the basis of

material collated during investigation, in no way indicated that mass

violence had triggered till 1.00 p.m. on 28.2.2002. This stand is in

conflict with the fact of sending requisition to call for Army at about

2.30 p.m. on 28.2.2002. This is a clear reflection on the approach

of the SIT to obfuscate the enquiry. (oo) The approach of the SIT to record the statements of persons

named as offenders and to accept explanation given by them to form

its opinion thereby exculpate those persons is ex-facie fallacious. For, the explanation offered by the offenders would be a matter of

their defence in the trial. The material indicating their complicity

cannot be disregarded and veracity thereof could be tested only

during the trial. Notably, not even a single statement of victim has

been recorded by the SIT. (pp) As a matter of fact, neither the local police nor the SIT has

undertaken the task as is exposited by the expression

“investigation”, as defined in Section 2(h) of the Code. The

expression “investigation” also means finding out footprint of the

statement/allegation, which is to undertake the meaningful

investigation in respect of every singular aspect. The SIT has not

maintained the purity in investigation and failed to investigate

crucial aspects warranting further investigation. (qq) The officers, who collaborated in the conspiracy, were

eventually rehabilitated to high positions and those who did not do

so, were persecuted by the concerned administration. (rr) There was glaring evidence regarding the fact that even fire

brigade facility was consciously denied to the persons belonging to

the minority community. The frantic phone calls made by them were 78 not even attended to, despite the emergent situation faced by them. The SIT made no effort to enquire into this factual allegation and did

not call for explanation of concerned officials of fire brigade. (ss) There was no adequate police bandobast laid in anticipation

nor stern measures taken when the actual violence took place on

28.2.2002 across the State. This was not a mere case of laxity or

failure of the police administration, but a concerted effort under

instructions from the top, when in fact, their public duty was to

protect the life and property of everyone. The situation was

aggravated because of the State support to the bandh call given by

the agitators. The SIT made no attempt to investigate these

allegations forthcoming from the record before it. There was material

to indicate that the official record had been destroyed under

suspicious circumstances. (tt) Reliance has been placed on Firozuddin Basheeruddin &

Ors. vs. State of Kerala43 , Nirmal Singh Kahlon vs. State of

Punjab & Ors.44 , R. Venkatkrishnan vs. Central Bureau of 43 (2001) 7 SCC 596 (paras 20, 23 and 25) 44 (2009) 1 SCC 441 (paras 67 and 68) 79 Investigation45 and State (NCT Delhi) vs. Shiv Charan Bansal &

Ors.46. (uu) The SIT has not enquired into the false propaganda for inciting

violence and the publication in that behalf, despite the SIT having

received said documents. (vv) Reliance is placed on State of Karnataka & Anr. vs. Dr.

Praveen Bhai Thogadia47 and Amish Devgan vs. Union of India

& Ors.48 to contend that incitement to violence is punishable

offence. (ww) The SIT has not enquired into the evidence regarding hate

speech. Regarding hate materials, the material on record was

glaring. That included false reporting by regional media outlets like

Sandesh on 28.2.2002, claiming 10-15 Hindu women being dragged

away from the Railway compartment (at Godhra) by fanatic mob. The Gujarat police had denied any such incident having been taken

place. However, no action has been taken against the publisher or 45 (2009) 11 SCC 737 46 (2020) 2 SCC 290 47 (2004) 4 SCC 684 (paras 7 and 8) 48 (2021) 1 SCC 1 (paras 20, 37, 75, 87, 88, 103 and 107) 80 the reporter. The same newspaper had reported on 1.3.2002 on the

front page with prominent heading that dead bodies of the

kidnapped young women from Sabarmati Express have been

recovered with their breasts chopped off and that Gujarat is aflame

because of Muslim fundamentalists. These canards have been

tolerated by the concerned administration unabated, thereby

fuelling the emotions and hatred between the two communities. This

was despite the reporting by the SIB headed by Mr. R.B. Sreekumar

recommending prosecution for provocative lines by the VHP in

publication and anonymous pamphlets. Even the then ACS (Home)

– Mr. Ashok Narayan had admitted in his statement to the SIT that

this matter had been brought to the notice of the State Government,

but no action was ever taken. Similarly, the then Commissioner of

Police, Vadodara – Mr. D.D. Tuteja had recommended action against

Sandesh newspaper in 2002, so also, Mr. Rahul Sharma, an IPS

officer and the then (in 2002) S.P., Bhavnagar sought permission to

register a criminal case against Sandesh newspaper. Even the SIB

through Mr. P.B. Upadhyaya, the then DCP (Intelligence) had sought

sanction for prosecution of Sandesh newspaper, as recommended by

Mr. Rahul Sharma. There is also material to indicate that CCT had 81 highlighted the pretentious writing and propaganda disseminated by

VHP and also widely reported in “The Express” on 24th March,

allegedly circulated by the Bajrang Dal President – Hastimal, who is

said to have been arrested. The theme of such publication was: up before 27.2.2002 in the form of hate speeches and mobilisation

all over Gujarat on 27.2.2002, the inaction of

political/police/bureaucrat functionaries despite the serious

episode of Godhra in the morning of 27.2.2002 and also their 82 inaction after outbreak of violence on 28.2.2002, not taking

preventive measures, deploying the adequate police force, no prompt

arrests, no curfew declared and delay in calling the Army. The

conspiracy was at different levels and at different timelines having

causal connection with the violence across the State on and from

28.2.2002, in particular. (yy) According to the appellant, hate speeches all across were part

and parcel of incitement to targeted violence and a systemic

conspiracy. The authorities allowed hate speeches unchecked and

unprosecuted to promote hatred amongst the two communities. Moreover, in furtherance of a pre-hatched conspiracy, large body of

armed and aggressive groups of people took to the street for taking

revenge owing to tragic killings at Godhra. The hate speeches were

in the form of statements of prominent political leaders before and

after 27.2.2002, regional (vernacular) media/press published in

Gujarat and pamphlets with incendiary content by right wing

organisations across the State. No preventive action nor any arrest

or prosecution was deliberately effected, despite such concerted

effort. The Courts have not adverted to this grievance of the 83 appellant at all. The SIT investigated issue of hate speech as an

independent head concerning the speeches of the former Chief

Minister of Gujarat and has glossed over plethora of hate writings

and speeches of prominent personalities, especially those belonging

to the VHP. The SIT has failed to reckon the issues noted in the

protest petition concerning hate speeches/writings and more

particularly, the failure of the State Government to take prompt

action in that regard. (zz) It is urged that the SIT has not named any person referred to

in the complaint dated 8.6.2006 and the protest petition except

Babu Bajrangi, who has been prosecuted in Naroda Patia

(Ahmedabad City) carnage case. None of the other persons have

been named in any of the hate speech cases investigated by the SIT. The SIT could not have accepted the version of the persons

disregarding overwhelming material indicative of their complicity. In

such a case, it would be a triable issue. (aaa) The appellant in fact relies on SIT record in support of the

prayer for further investigation, at least in respect of the following

matters: - acceptance it provides reasons. The NHRC in its report in the

present case, made certain recommendations. Further, there was

tangible material in the form of report of the Committee on

Empowerment of Women54, report of constitutional authority, such

as the Election Commission of India confirming the allegations made

in the protest petition, which have not been investigated at all. 1959 SCR 279 (para 9) 52 (1988) 3 SCC 609 (paras 36 to 41) 53 W.P. No. 41791/2006 (with connected cases) decided on 5.2.2021 54 Ninth Report of the Committee on Empowerment of Women (2002-2003) concerning violence against women
during riots (July-August 2002) 87 (ddd)Reliance is placed on Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh & Anr. vs.

State of Gujarat & Ors.55, Zahira Habibulla Sheikh (5) & Anr. vs. State of Gujarat & Ors.56 and Dayal Singh & Ors. vs. State

of Uttaranchal57 . (eee) Further, the SIT has not enquired into the evidence in the form

of statement of Mr. Dileep Trivedi, Public Prosecutor regarding

instructions issued for providing Advocate to accused belonging to a

particular community, indicative of the bias in favour of that

community and being party to the conspiracy. (fff) The Standard Operating Procedure given in the Gujarat Police

Manual, such as Rules 45, 46 and 53 therein, has not been followed

in its letter and spirit. (ggg) The statement of Mrs. Jayanti S. Ravi, District Magistrate,

Godhra is not consistent with the official record, which was certainly

a matter creating suspicion about the correctness of the statement

so made. (2004) 4 SCC 158 (paras 2, 5, 7, 10, 18, 30, 31, 33, 35, 36, 39, 40, 52, 60, 61, 68, 71 and 75) 56 (2006) 3 SCC 374 (paras 4, 5 and 9) 57 (2012) 8 SCC 263 (paras 1, 21, 22, 25 to 28, 32 and 47.5) 88 (hhh) The SIT had failed to seize the mobile phone of Mr.

Hasmukh Patel and Mr. Jaideep Patel, which could have unravelled

the truth about their involvement. Mr. Jaideep Patel is the same

person who had made revelation to the Press on the same day i.e.,

27.2.2002. (iii) The telephonic call records produced by Mr. Rahul Sharma

have also not been investigated. The statement of Rahul Sharma

dated 2.7.2009 to SIT was clinching to establish the plea regarding

call records, which SIT discarded on the specious ground that the

same was produced for the first time in 2008. The Additional

Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, Ahmedabad – A.K. Surolia,

has also stated in his statement before the SIT that it was he who

had instructed ACP, Crime Branch – S.S. Chudasama to extract the

relevant call details from the relevant cellular service providers –

M/s. AT&T and M/s. Cellforce. This has not been investigated by

the SIT. The call records given to Mr. P.C. Pande, the then

Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad have also not been analysed. The call records would show that Mr. Haresh Bhatt was in constant

touch with the doctors from outside the Godhra city, after which post 89 mortems of the Godhra victims were carried out in open in the

Railway yard. The call records also indicated that Mr. Shivanand

Jha, the then Additional Commissioner of Police, Sector 1,

Ahmedabad City was part of the larger conspiracy, which is clear

from his 68 phone calls made on 27.2.2002 either owned by

politicians or officials (unofficially) and 192 calls on 28.2.2002

including to then Power Minister, State of Gujarat – Mr. Kaushik

Jamnadas Patel (an MLA elected from his area) and another elected

representative – Dr. Maya Kodnani, who has been named as accused

in another case and convicted by the trial Court. The call records

also pertain to Mr. Dinesh Togadia and Dr. Praveen Togadia, officer

bearers of VHP. All these call records have remained uninvestigated. (jjj) No explanation is forthcoming from the SIT as to why call

record was not procured between 2008 and 2010. This is significant

as the SIT was directed to “look into” the complaint dated 8.6.2006

vide order dated 27.4.200958 and the SIT had submitted its final

report to this Court in September, 2011. (kkk) The SIT had made no effort to enquire into the fact that

following the Godhra incident the massacre followed in Deepda

Darwaza, which case was also assigned to SIT by this Court. Even

that incident was a part of larger conspiracy, which has remained to

be dealt with in the concerned trial in right perspective. (lll) The SIT could have also taken notice of Private Citizens

Commission headed by former Supreme Court Judges regarding

human rights violation and the contents of the said report indicative

of high officials of the State being party to conspiracy in commission

of crime. (mmm) It is urged that need to direct further investigation can be

substantiated on the basis of undisputed facts emerging from the

materials/statements collated by the SIT. (nnn) In cases of allegation regarding larger conspiracy, there

could be no direct evidence. That is a matter to be investigated and

inferred on the basis of the material pointing out towards such

circumstances. Reliance is placed on Nazir Khan & Ors. vs. State 91 of Delhi59 . There is no investigation whatsoever regarding existence

of conspiracy despite the same being revealed from Tehelka Tape

itself. Reliance is also placed on Firozuddin Basheeruddin60 and

Nirmal Singh Kahlon61 to contend that even the second FIR is

permissible if the evidence regarding conspiracy surfaces after

registration of the first FIR. Further, acceptance of final report

submitted by the investigating officer is no impediment for enquiring

into fresh material brought to the notice of the investigating officer

or the Court, if warrants taking cognizance. (ooo) The SIT has not offered any remark regarding the statement of

Mr. Bharat Bhatt, Special Public Prosecutor and Mr. Deepak Shah,

who were questioned by the SIT for reasons best known to it. (ppp)It is urged that appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri had appeared as

prosecution witness (PW-337) in Gulberg Society case being CR No.

67/2002 and not as a complainant. Whereas, in the present action,

appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri was prosecuting the matter as

complainant. (2003) 8 SCC 461 (paras 16 to 22) 60 supra at footnote No. 43 61 supra at Footnote No. 44 92 (qqq) The appellant has also explained as to how the error has been

committed in mentioning the name of Mr. Rahul Sharma and Satish

Verma as offender Nos. 45 and 63 respectively, though they were

cited as witnesses in support of the allegations made in the

complaint and protest petition. That was also explained to the SIT

at the earliest opportunity. (rrr) It is urged that undue reference was made about the adverse

observations recorded against Ms. Teesta Setalvad by the Court. That was wholly inappropriate. For, the stated adverse remarks

came to be expunged by this Court in Testa Setalvad & Anr. vs.

State of Gujarat & Ors.62 . Reliance was placed on some

proceedings for similar purpose against Mr. R.B. Sreekumar. Those

proceedings are still pending and will be of no avail to SIT. One of

the reasons weighed with the SIT to discard the statement of Mr.

R.B. Sreekumar was, therefore, untenable on the face of it because

the correspondence pertains to period much before Mr. R.B.

Sreekumar had raised issues regarding violation of his service

conditions with the department. (2004) 10 SCC 88 (paras 4 and 7) 93 (sss) The SIT had filed material alongwith final report consisting of (i) documentary evidence (officially received), (ii) documentary

evidence otherwise collected by the SIT, (iii) video-audio recordings

of a sting operation authenticated at the instance of the NHRC by

the CBI and relied upon by the SIT in various prosecutions, (iv) extra

judicial confessions evidenced by the sting operation and (v) witness

statements in respect of individuals in relation to the events that

took place prior to February 27, 2002 until order of this Court dated

12.9.201163. The Magistrate was obliged to examine the voluminous

documentary and other evidence to ascertain whether some matters

raise strong suspicion of offences having been committed, being

sufficient reason to issue direction to the SIT to further investigate

the same, even if it was not a case of taking cognizance straightaway. Reliance is placed on Afroz Mohammed Hasanfatta64 and S.K.

Sinha65. (ttt) The appellant was relying on undisputed documents available

in the SIT record, which alone were sufficient to issue summons for 63 supra at footnote No. 26 64 supra at footnote No. 31 65 supra at footnote No. 39 94 alleged offences, as it clearly indicated the complicity of the persons

named in the complaint/protest petition and in any case, raised

strong suspicion about the commission of such offence. The reports

of Mr. R.B. Sreekumar to the Government between April and August,

2022, constitute official documentary evidence, which the SIT has

disregarded. That being the substantive evidence, was required to

be reckoned by the SIT. (uuu) The Courts cannot adopt the approach of forgive and

forget, but it is the solemn duty of this Court to ensure that all guilty

are brought to book and prosecuted in accordance with law. He

would submit that: - (b) The final report besides dealing with each of these 32 (thirty- two) allegations exhaustively, has also separately dealt with the case

against each of the 63 persons named as offenders in the complaint

dated 8.6.2006. As aforesaid, the final report submitted to the

Magistrate also reproduces the observations of the Amicus Curiae

and deals with every aspect thereof to form its opinion that no

offence is made out, much less having been committed by the

offenders named in the complaint. It is urged that the investigating

agency is entitled to form its opinion dependent on the legally

admissible evidence/material collated during investigation. Further, the SIT had to investigate within the remit given to it by this

Court. In that, vide order dated 27.4.200968, this Court directed the

SIT appointed by it to only “look into” the complaint dated 8.6.2006

of appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri. No direction was given to the SIT

to register it as FIR. Notably, this Court consciously adopted such

a course - despite the main prayer of appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri 68 supra at footnote Nos. 4 and 17 98 to register her complaint as FIR and to get the same investigated

through an independent agency. Not only that, upon submission of

the final report by the SIT, the appeal filed by the appellant [SLP(Crl.)

No. 1088/2008] was disposed of and the SIT was directed to submit

appropriate report before the Magistrate taking cognizance in the

Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002. This is despite the fact

that the trial of the said case had progressed before the Sessions

Court after filing of the last supplementary chargesheet on

12.8.2009. The trial of the said case, thus, continued under the

directions of this Court including dated 6.5.2010. In that sense, this

Court adopted a sui generis procedure which was not in strict

consonance with the procedure predicated under the Code. Resultantly, the SIT was bound to strictly follow the directions of this

Court in every aspect without exception. And that, the SIT had fairly

discharged its role to the satisfaction of this Court, as noticed from

the orders dated 1.5.200969, 12.9.201170 and as recently as,

13.4.2017. (c) In the writ petition filed before the High Court, relief claimed

was not for assigning investigation of complaint dated 8.6.2006 to

the SIT (appointed by this Court in connection with nine major cases

which included Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002), but to

an independent investigation agency. That prayer, obviously, stood

rejected by the High Court and even by this Court consequent to

direction issued on 27.4.200971 in the special leave petition filed by

the appellant, directing the SIT to only have a look at the complaint. (d) It is urged that this Court even vide order dated 12.9.201172,

did not direct registration of the complaint dated 8.6.2006 as FIR. It

only called upon the SIT to take necessary follow-up steps. The

complaint dated 8.6.2006, in one sense, was regarded by the SIT as

further information in relation to the Gulberg Society case being CR

No. 67/2002, investigation and trial whereof was allowed to proceed

by this Court at the same time. The last supplementary chargesheet

in that case came to be filed as back as on 12.8.2009. (e) The remit of the SIT, in terms of the directions issued by this

Court from time to time was only to examine whether the material

referred to in the complaint discloses commission of any offence of

larger conspiracy at the highest level and involvement of any person

other than the accused persons named in CR No. 67/2002

concerning Gulberg Society. That being the remit of the SIT, it could

not have investigated into any other aspect without an express

direction of this Court. This is also for the reason that the allegation

of conspiracy at the local level had already been investigated into in

all other cases registered at the relevant time, around 2000 in

number, including the nine major cases assigned to the Supreme

Court appointed SIT. The allegations which are made in the

complaint are based essentially on the record/affidavits of the

officials of the State, filed before the Nanavati-Shah Commission. (f) Additionally, the direction given by this Court on 12.9.201173

in the special leave petition filed by the appellant, would not only

bind the SIT and the Magistrate dealing with the final report, but

also the appellant herein. No liberty was sought or had been given 73 supra at footnote No. 26 101 by this Court to the appellant to make fresh allegations beyond the

allegations noted in the complaint dated 8.6.2006 and already

investigated by the SIT in terms of order dated 12.8.2009. As a

matter of fact, appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri being the complainant

could have availed of the remedy under Section 190 of the Code by

presenting a complaint before the competent Magistrate, as observed

by the High Court vide order dated 2.11.2007. She did not avail of

that remedy. Instead, the appellant approached this Court by way

of SLP(Crl.) No. 1088/2008 and submitted to and acquiesced of the

directions issued by this Court from time to time. (g) Significantly, in proceedings before this Court, Ms. Teesta

Setalvad had assisted the Amicus Curiae appointed by this Court

and presumably also for articulating the observations in the note

submitted by him to this Court and to which the SIT had duly

responded and dealt with in the final report presented before the

Metropolitan Magistrate, in terms of this Court’s order dated

12.9.201174. Even the Magistrate was bound by the remit applicable

to the SIT in view of the sui generis procedure adopted by this Court 74 supra at footnote No. 26 102 in treating the report of the SIT as further report under Section

173(8) of the Code (in the Gulberg Society case being CR No.

67/2002) to be presented before the Magistrate alongwith the

statements recorded by the SIT, treating them as statements under Section 161 of the code in terms of order dated 7.2.2013. (h) It is urged that the appellant has repeatedly changed the

goalpost with a view to create confusion. Amongst others, the

manner in which her complaint dated 8.6.2006 ought to proceed,

despite the crystal-clear order of this Court. Further, for the first

time, it is now urged that the same (complaint dated 8.6.2006) ought

to be treated as a private complaint and proceeded with by the

Magistrate under Section 190 of the Code. (i) It is urged that the argument of the appellant to treat the

protest petition as a private complaint, is one of desperation and in

any case, untenable in light of the express direction given by this

Court to the SIT to submit its report to the Magistrate taking

cognizance of CR No. 67/2002 being the Gulberg Society case - as

further report under Section 173(8) of the Code. If the report was to

disclose commission of such offence of larger conspiracy or 103 abetment, as the case may be, the Court could have proceeded

against the concerned persons and tried in sessions trial arising

from CR No. 67/2002 by framing requisite charge(s) in that regard. Therefore, the complaint could neither be registered as FIR nor could

be treated as a private complaint in the wake of sui generis direction

given by this Court vide order dated 12.9.201175 in the special leave

petition preferred by the appellant. Reliance has been placed on

Vishnu Kumar Tiwari76 (j) It is urged that when the SIT called upon appellant – Zakia

Ahsan Jafri to give her statement in connection with the complaint,

she declined to do so and it has been so recorded in the opening part

of the final report as well. She wanted the SIT to treat her complaint

as FIR and register the same. Accepting this request would have

been contrary to the spirit of the direction given by this Court (vide

order dated 27.4.200977) to SIT, to only look into the complaint and

to take further steps in that regard. Until the special leave petition

filed by appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri was disposed by this Court on 75 supra at footnote No. 26 76 supra at footnote No. 27 (paras 7, 17, 27, 32, 33 and 42) 77 supra at footnote Nos. 4 and 17 104 12.9.201178, no request was made to this Court to clarify the

position or for issuing directions to register her complaint as

FIR/complaint. (k) Although in the rejoinder argument, the learned counsel for the

appellant had stated that he had never argued for treating the

complaint/protest petition of appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri as

complaint under Section 190 of the Code, it is noticed that a clear

stand has been taken in paragraph 5 of the written note being

Convenience Compilation (Volume I) filed by the appellant in this

regard. Further, in the protest petition, fresh allegations have been

made, which in any case cannot be linked to the allegation of larger

conspiracy required to be investigated by the SIT in terms of

successive orders passed by this Court. The attempt of the

complainant was obviously to make wild and preposterous

allegations and keep the pot boiling in the name of taking action

against new offenders referred to in the protest petition while not

pursuing allegation Nos. (i) and (iv) which had been thoroughly

investigated by the SIT and found to be devoid of substance. A 78 supra at footnote No. 26 105 deceptive stand is taken that the appellant would like to pursue the

matter only on the basis of undisputed material/documents - having

realised that the basis on which allegation Nos. (i) and (iv) came to

be made, was a figment of imagination of the persons attributing

certain utterances to the then Chief Minister to make it sensational

news. Significantly, SIT was entrusted with investigation of other

crimes, which it completed to the satisfaction of this Court. In those

cases, not even a tittle of remark has been made by the trial Court

to trace it to the allegation of larger conspiracy. However, the

appellant has highlighted unconnected matters (Deepda Darwaza

case and Sardarpura case), in the guise of protest petition filed in

Gulberg Society case. (l) Whereas, it had been understood by all concerned that the SIT

was expected to investigate into the allegation regarding “larger

conspiracy” to cause and precipitate mass violence across the State

and not the criminal conspiracy at the local level resulting in violence

at Gulberg Society, in respect of which CR No. 67/2002 had already

been registered. In that, as regards the conspiracy to commit offence

mentioned in CR No. 67/2002, that had already been investigated 106 and chargesheet filed, including supplementary chargesheets from

time to time. It is not in dispute that even the trial Court, which

dealt with the said crime, had formulated the very first point for its

determination on the basis of charges framed against the accused

named in the said trial being CR No. 67/2002 - regarding pre- planned conspiracy to form an unlawful assembly and thereafter

perpetrate the carnage at Gulberg Society on 28.2.2002, which

resulted in death of 69 persons and attempts to murder, causing

grave and serious injuries to residents of Gulberg Society and also

causing damage and destruction of vehicles and property thereat. (m) Similarly, the allegation regarding events of mass violence

spread across the State being State-sponsored crime had been made

even in Bilkis Bano case and Best Bakery case and other cases

including eight other cases investigated by the SIT. Those

allegations have been dealt with in the concerned cases. In other

words, the complaint dated 8.6.2006 submitted by appellant – Zakia

Ahsan Jafri was to be looked into by the SIT in respect of allegation

regarding larger conspiracy at the highest level alone and not the

conspiracy at the local (lower) level. (n) The appellant is now heavily relying on the following: - (vii) Post mortem at the Railway station in open yard; (viii) Presence of Ministers in the Control Room and DGP office; However, each of these issues were considered at great length by this

Court between 2008 and 2011 whilst monitoring the investigation

done by the SIT and culminating in final report. The findings of the

SIT had also to pass through the strict scrutiny of the Amicus Curiae

assisting this Court, who was authorised to even interact with the

witnesses examined/questioned by the SIT. It would be, therefore,

travesty of justice and doubting the wisdom of this Court which had 108 supervised/monitored the investigation completed by the SIT on all

aspects and being satisfied permitted the SIT to present the final

report before the Magistrate. The entirety of the material was

presented before this Court by the SIT from time to time. The final

report in question presented before the Magistrate, therefore,

forecloses the enquiry concerning the allegations in complaint dated

8.6.2006. (o) According to the SIT, considering its remit, the Magistrate was

also required to examine the final report on that basis and to satisfy

about the plausibility of the conclusions drawn by the SIT on the

materials collected by it. The Magistrate entered upon such exercise

and applied his mind to the totality of the circumstances including

by taking note of the issues raised in the protest petition and

accepted the final report being convinced that no case was made out

for issuance of process against the named offenders or any other

person. (p) As regards larger conspiracy, the allegation is mainly founded

on the affidavits/materials filed by the officials and others before the

Nanavati-Shah Commission appointed by the State of Gujarat under 109 the 1952 Act. The Commission, however, has dealt with every aspect

of the affidavit(s) filed by the concerned officials before it including

the material which also forms part of the complaint submitted by

appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri. The opinion of the Commission in

that regard is no different than the conclusions reached by the SIT. Notably, the Commission submitted its report after the SIT had

already filed its final report before the Magistrate. (q) Indeed, the opinion of the SIT must conform to the material

dealt with by it in its report. In the present case, the final report of

the SIT is exhaustive and deals with every singular aspect necessary

to answer the allegations made in the complaint - which is on the

basis of analysis by the SIT by reckoning the material collected

during the investigation. The analysis of the entire material by the

SIT is not only allegation-wise, but named offender-wise including

witness-wise and objection/noting (wise) of the Amicus Curiae in

response to the previous further report of the SIT submitted before

this Court. (r) The SIT has thoroughly analysed the allegations against each

offender in the subject final report on the basis of material collected 110 by it, as can be discerned from pages 363-364, 367, 370-385, 388-

392 and 395-397. Only after such thorough analysis, the SIT had

opined that no offence has been made out nor the stated offender

can be said to be involved in the commission of offence of larger

conspiracy. (s) The complaint highlights the pattern of continual concerted

lackadaisical approach of high officials of the State Government, who

were allegedly acting under dictation from the highest authority of

the elected political dispensation. The theory of larger conspiracy is

put forth mainly on the basis of alleged utterances of the then Chief

Minister in the meeting held soon after the ghastly incident of train

burning in Godhra on 27.2.2002 and the subsequent official meeting

on 28.2.2002 including before the Press. The case made out in the

complaint dated 8.6.2006 is that the high officials followed the

directions given by the then Chief Minister and issued instructions

to their subordinates to justify pre-orchestrated mass carnage that

enjoyed the political sanction of the constitutionally elected

Government in Gujarat. Hence, it was nothing short of State

sponsored violence against a particular community. (t) The remit of the SIT was, therefore, to investigate the

allegations in the complaint, which it had done meticulously, as can

be discerned from the final report submitted by it running into about

231 closely typed pages (in the paper book of this Court, mentioned

as pages 1 to 270 on the cover page of the report filed), analysing

every piece of material/evidence collated by it allegation-wise,

offender-wise, as well as the observations of the Amicus Curiae on

the final report presented by the SIT before this Court. The final

report is the compendium of the previous reports submitted before

this Court and the clarification of the SIT in respect of observations

of Amicus Curiae, point-wise. The permission given by this Court in

terms of order dated 12.9.201179 is a seal of approval of this Court

about its satisfaction regarding the completion of fair investigation

done by the SIT in respect of allegations contained in complaint

dated 8.6.2006. If there was even a little doubt, this Court, as in the

past, would have certainly directed the SIT to do further

investigation in respect of left out matters. As noted earlier, Ms.

Teesta Setalvad had interacted with the Amicus Curiae before he had 79 supra at footnote No. 26 112 submitted his observations by way of a note to this Court and made

over to the SIT. As all concerned had acted upon and accepted the

sui generis procedure followed by this Court in dealing with the

complaint dated 8.6.2006 including regarding its investigation and

directing presentation of an appropriate report before the Magistrate

taking cognizance of CR No. 67/2002 concerning the Gulberg

Society in terms of order dated 12.9.201180, neither the SIT nor the

Magistrate could travel beyond the said remit. For the same reason,

it would not be open to the complainant/informant/appellant to

make fresh allegations, much less not connected with the larger

conspiracy at the highest level, already investigated by the SIT under

the supervision of this Court. (u) In any case, the emphasis placed by the appellant on matters

referred to in the protest petition are in respect of unconnected

events and not having direct or causal bearing on the allegation of

larger conspiracy, particularly involving the political dispensation,

as well as, the high officials, bureaucrats and police functionaries

allegedly acting under the dictation of the then Chief Minister. Notably, no submission has been advanced on the meeting held on

27.2.2002 under the chairmanship of the then Chief Minister or

about the testimony of Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt, IPS, the then

Superintendent of Police (Security), who falsely claims to have

attended the official meeting. (v) As regards allegations regarding Ministers found sitting in the

Police Control Room and giving instructions to the officials, the SIT

has thoroughly examined the said allegation and after due enquiry,

was of the opinion that the Ministers even though visited the Control

Room, were to ascertain the developments and not for giving

instructions, as is the routine practice. No material has come on

record to indicate that the Ministers had given specific direction one

way or the other to the subordinate officials, which may be regarded

as a case of larger conspiracy. Absent such evidence, mere fact that

the Ministers had visited the Police Control Room would not take the

matter any further, much less to charge the offenders named in the

complaint with any offence. (w) As regards the allegation that the State did not stop the State

wide Bandh call, it does not follow that the officials and elected 114 Government had entered into larger conspiracy culminating with the

events unfolded on 27.2.2002 onwards. In the first place, the

materials collated during investigation does not corroborate this

fact. In any case, the inaction or for that matter, tacit support of the

elected Government of the State to the State wide Bandh, by itself

absent any other incriminating circumstance/material, cannot be

the basis to initiate prosecution against the high officials of the State

on the charge of criminal conspiracy and for violence happening

across the State. (x) As regards the allegation regarding late deployment of Army,

the same was found to be devoid of substance by the SIT. The

material collected during investigation revealed that the then Chief

Minister, on the basis of inputs and sensing serious problem across

the State, had telephonically interacted with the then Home Minister

of the Government of India at 1.00 p.m. for deployment of Army and

a formal written request was sent on fax to the Union Ministry at

2.30 p.m. on 28.2.2002. The arrival of army took some time due to

unavoidable situation and after providing logistical assistance, the

Army was deployed immediately on the following day. These 115 measures taken by the State Government, in fact, are indicative of

prompt steps taken to avoid any further untoward situation and

destroys the theory of larger conspiracy by the State at the highest

level or State supported violence. (y) It was urged by the respondents that material on record taken

into account by the SIT has been noted even by the Nanavati-Shah

Commission and the trial Court in Gulberg Society case being CR

No. 67/2002, indicative of the measures taken by the State in

anticipation of the riots, but the civil administration was overrun

across the State. Further, apprehending the fallout aftermath the

Godhra train burning episode and the general unrest all around,

Army was requisitioned on 28.2.2002 itself even before the violence

had actually taken serious proportion across the State. The Army

arrived on the same midnight, as they were posted at the borders

due to security reasons aftermath the attack on the Parliament on

13.12.2001 (which had happened only two months earlier). After

arrival and providing logistical support at the local level, the Army

was deployed in sensitive areas across the State. The

contemporaneous record would, therefore, indicate that the theory 116 of larger conspiracy propounded in the complaint is falsified being

imaginative. (z) As regards the partisan investigation in the concerned criminal

cases, the same was also of no avail, as there was no evidence

forthcoming to connect it with the allegation of larger conspiracy. (aa) The SIT had examined everyone involved including the then

Chief Minister until the last Minister and found that there was no

material to connect them with the allegation of larger conspiracy. (bb) It is submitted that allegation concerning the conduct of

grassroot level officers had nothing to do with the allegations

regarding larger conspiracy at the highest level. (cc) Even allegations based on the affidavit of Mr. R.B. Sreekumar

had nothing to do with the allegations of larger conspiracy and in

particular, the directions issued from the highest authority – the

then Chief Minister. Furnishing of alleged misleading reports by the

State Home Department to the central Election Commission for

conduct of early elections, also has no connection with the theory of

larger conspiracy being the cause of eruption of violence across the 117 State. It is pointed out that appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri, in her

evidence recorded on 22.10.2010, accepted that Mr. R.B. Sreekumar

was at the relevant time, working with an NGO and Ms. Teesta

Setalvad was associated with that organisation. Interestingly, she

was none else, but the convener of the Private Citizens Commission

headed by former Supreme Court Judges and was in a position to

influence appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri. It is submitted that Ms.

Teesta Setalvad, for reasons best known to her and out of vengeance,

was interested in continuing with her tirade and persecution on the

basis of unsubstantiated allegations in the complaint in the name of

quest for justice with real purpose to keep the pot boiling and

sensationalise and politicize the crime. The version of Mr. R.B.

Sreekumar in the later affidavits commenting about the functioning

of the administration, must be viewed in the context of his denial of

career opportunities. (dd) Indisputably, Mr. R.B. Sreekumar, former IPS officer was

posted as Additional Director General of Police, Armed Unit, Gujarat,

at the time of riots, who had filed nine affidavits before the Nanavati- Shah Commission. He did not derive any of its contents from 118 personal knowledge/information, which he might have received as

occupant of the stated office. Further, he did not make any

allegation against the State Government in his initial two affidavits

filed before the Commission, but started making allegations from

third affidavit dated 9.4.2005, presumably because he was deprived

of service benefits having been superseded by his junior – Mr. K.R.

Kaushik. Later, he got involved as an accused in the FIR filed by

CBI in ISRO spying case, which had been registered under directions

of this Court in S. Nambi Narayanan vs. Siby Mathews & Ors.81 and again between the same parties82. (ee) Appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri in her cross-examination in

Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002 as PW-337 had

conceded that she knew Ms. Teesta Setalvad for some time and also

about having met Mr. R.B. Sreekumar after the incident. She has

stated that Mr. R.B. Sreekumar had come to Gulberg Society on

28.2.2002 and upon completion of four years she had met him. She

had also stated that Mr. R.B. Sreekumar was presently working with

Ms. Teesta Setalvad. She had also admitted in her cross- (2018) 10 SCC 804 82 2021 SCC Online SC 760 119 examination that she had given statement on 22.8.2003 before the

Nanavati-Shah Commission and after giving that statement, she had

no occasion to read copy of that statement. This was suggestive of

the fact that she was tutored by Ms. Teesta Setalvad, but she never

disclosed about that, which fact she had to admit in the cross- examination. She had also admitted in her cross-examination that

Mr. R.B. Sreekumar was disappointed with the Government. At the

same time, she was unable to recall about the enquiry made by the

SIT in connection with the affidavit filed by her before the

Commission. And that, she had throughout followed the

instructions of Ms. Teesta Setalvad. In the final supplementary

report filed by the SIT in Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002,

it has been clearly noted that nineteen witnesses insisted to take on

record their prepared signed statement(s), which according to them,

were prepared by Ms. Teesta Setalvad and Advocate – Mr. M.M.

Tirmizi and did not show willingness to give their own statement. The statements so presented were stereotyped copies/computerised

prepared statements given to them by Ms. Teesta Setalvad and

Advocate – Mr. M.M. Tirmizi and they had merely signed such

prepared statements. (ff) The final report extensively discusses the allegations culled out

from separate affidavits filed by Mr. R.B. Sreekumar before the

Nanavati-Shah Commission after recording the statements of

concerned persons and collecting relevant documents - as can be

discerned from pages 264-266, 271-283, 285-287, 297-298, 302-

312, 326 and 329. (gg) The other allegations founded on the version of Mr. Rahul

Sharma were also enquired into and the SIT examined the relevant

call records to conclude that the same were baseless. The

allegations were broadly regarding laxity and failure in maintaining

law and order during the relevant time. (hh) The SIT recorded statements of all the relevant persons who

were stung in the Tehelka Sting Operation. The call details of Babu

Bajrangi, who was one amongst them, clearly establishes that he

was in Ahmedabad from morning 11:15 hrs. on 27.2.2002 and,

therefore, he could not have been in Godhra at the time of Godhra

train incident. Similarly, the call details of Haresh Bhatt were

analysed, which revealed that he was present in Ahmedabad till 9:30

hrs. on 27.2.2002. His location was again shown in Ahmedabad 121 directly at 18:40:21 hrs., which supports his claim that he had gone

to his village during the interregnum period, when connectivity was

not there. Again on 28.2.2002, his location remained at tower of

mobile service provider in Paldi in Ahmedabad till 12:00:04 hrs. on

that day. This supported his claim that he had visited his village for

a week. In any case, Haresh Bhatt had not been named in the FIR

register pertaining to riot cases in Gujarat or in the complaint filed

by appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri. (ii) As regards the argument founded on Tehelka Sting Operation

about build-up of arms and ammunition in Gujarat even before

Godhra train incident, the contents of the transcript are not

corroborated from the material available with the SIT. The trial

Court in Sessions Case No. 152/2002 arising from Meghaninagar PS

FIR No. 67/2002 (Gulberg Society case) regarding use of firearms in

the incident, had observed in paragraph 722 that there is no

evidence or recovery of the bullet fired from private weapon by any

member of the mob. The only case is that the material recovered

from the scene of offence were empty cartridge shells and bullet

casings, ballistically established to have been fired from the licensed 122 weapon to be of the ownership of late Mr. Ehsan Jafri. In other

words, there is no corroborative material forthcoming regarding

commission of any offence by the offenders named in the complaint,

much less of larger conspiracy. (jj) The Tehelka Sting Operation in a way relates to the allegation

regarding criminal conspiracy at the local level. The contents thereof

have nothing to do with the allegation of larger conspiracy enquired

into by the SIT as directed by this Court. The local level conspiracy

had been investigated in the respective cases including the nine

cases investigated by the SIT under supervision of this Court. In the

concerned cases, all persons involved including the persons

recorded in the sting operation have been proceeded against in the

concerned case. As had been pointed out, SIT nevertheless recorded

statements of 13 persons out of 18 involved in the operation ‘Kalank’

by Tehelka. The statements of those persons in law could be used

against the maker of the statement as extra judicial confession, but

not against others and more so without corroborative piece of

evidence. The SIT had not only recorded the statement of Babu

Bajrangi, but also Prakash S. Rathod (a worker at a Petrol pump) 123 and Haresh Bhatt. Their presence at the place referred to by them

stood falsified by the call detail records. Their version has been

analysed by the SIT and found to be unuseful in the context of the

allegation of larger conspiracy being enquired by it under directions

of this Court. Until the disposal of the matter by this Court on

12.9.201183, the issues now raised were never pointed out even by

the Amicus Curiae. (kk) The learned counsel would also urge that incorrect statement

was made on behalf of the appellant that the SIT had not recorded

statement of any victim. This submission is falsified from the record

of the SIT, which includes the statements of concerned victims

(minority community), list whereof has been mentioned in paragraph

35 of the Final Note Part-III with heading “Clarification as to

Conspiracy in the Gulberg Case”. (ll) Similarly, incorrect allegation was made against the SIT about

the records produced by Mr. P.C. Pande. Those records were

produced by Mr. Pande on his own and not as per directions given

by this Court. Further, the record was a scanned copy of the PCR 83 supra at footnote No. 26 124 messages done by him and in his custody. Whereas, the original

records which were allegedly scanned by him, were destroyed in the

year in 2008 itself as per rules in Gujarat Police Manual. As such,

the SIT cannot be blamed for non-recovery of the original PCR

message record. (mm) It was also faintly suggested that the SIT had failed to

record further statements or re-examine the witnesses. It is urged

that those persons who came to give their statements to SIT, their

statements were recorded by the SIT without exception. If any

witness wanted to give further statement, could have done so on his

own if he desired to share further information. But no such request

was received by the SIT. If the SIT wanted to re-examine any

witness, it could have done so unhesitatingly. In substance, the

allegation about the inaction of the SIT or partisan attitude during

the investigation is, to say the least, preposterous. (nn) It is urged that the SIB messages being exchanged between the

concerned officials itself is indicative of the fact that the State

Government and the police were proactive in dealing with the crisis

that was evolving post-Godhra episode. Additionally, on 28.2.2002 125 itself, the State called for Army assistance by sending a formal

request in that behalf and on arrival of Army after giving logistical

assistance, it was deployed all across the sensitive areas in the State. This also is indicative of the fact that proactive measures were being

taken by the State, but that was overrun by the expanse of

spontaneous mass violence. The SIT had noted that the SIB being

responsible to collect intelligence regarding law-and-order situation

in the State, was at the relevant time headed by Mr. G.C. Raiger, the

then Additional Director General of Police-Intelligence. The

authorities who were supervising the functions of this department

have been named as being part of pre-planned larger conspiracy. However, on analysing the messages, it is noticed that the

intelligence agencies of the State were collecting the relevant

intelligence and disseminating the same to the concerned

authorities. Thus understood, the allegation of pre-planned larger

conspiracy and involvement of named high officials remained

unsubstantiated and not even warranting any suspicion about their

involvement. (oo) It is urged that left to the appellant, she had gone to the extent

of suggesting that the two train bogies were put on fire as a part of

pre-planned conspiracy hatched by the highest authority. This is

only figment of imagination, preposterous and in disregard of the

hard facts discernible from the material collected by the SIT

including in the investigation concerning Godhra incident clearly

spelling out the manner in which that incident had occurred. The

trial of that case has established the involvement of accused who

had been convicted for being responsible for the said incident and

appeal therefrom is pending in this Court. (pp) It is urged that assuming that it is a case of intelligence failure

and in a given situation, inaction of the concerned authority

responsible to take corrective measures, such failure cannot take

the colour of being involved in criminal conspiracy as such. For

being involved in the crime of criminal conspiracy, there ought to be

positive material indicative of deliberate act of commission and

omission and meeting of minds of the concerned persons, which was

completely absent and not forthcoming during the investigation

conducted by the SIT to enquire into the allegations of larger 127 criminal conspiracy. The SIT had investigated into the role of every

person named as offender in the complaint under consideration and

analysed the same in the final report offender-wise as well. (qq) The SIT had recorded statements of various officials of SIB,

such as Mr. P.B. Upadhyay, the then DCI (Communal), Mr. O.P.

Mathur, the then IGP (Admn. & Security), SIB, Mr. G.C. Raiger, the

then Additional DG (Intelligenc), as also of Mr. Ashok Narayan, ACS

(Home), which have been taken into account for forming opinion, as

noted in the final report. Despite the efforts put in by the officials,

there are situations which are unpredictable being sporadic,

sudden, spontaneous and dynamic in nature. Even with best of

anticipation and arrangements in place, it would get overwhelmed

by the proportion of violence all across the State. In such

eventuality, it would be a case of collapse of State administration,

but cannot pass the muster of concerned officials being part of larger

conspiracy. The officials are expected to respond to the evolving

situation while adhering to the norms, but may end up in a situation

which can go beyond their control at various places across the State

owing to mass violence. (rr) The SIT had also closely examined the allegation of conspiracy

in making kerosene bombs and came to the conclusion that there

was no evidence worthy of proceeding against the named offenders,

much less on the allegation of larger conspiracy for want of evidence

regarding meeting of minds in particular. (ss) In reference to the argument that the trials against the named

accused were being compromised by the public prosecutor (Mr.

Arvind Pandya), has also been rebutted by the SIT on the argument

that the public prosecutor to whom reference has been made by the

appellant, was not appointed by the State in any single criminal case

investigated by the SIT, but had appeared before the Nanavati-Shah

Commission. Further, he had resigned in 2008 before the SIT took

over the investigation of the complaint dated 8.6.2006. He could not

have, in any way, influenced the trial in any of the specified cases. Out of nine cases, trial in eight cases had been completed under the

gaze of SIT and in none of the cases, any adverse opinion has been

recorded by the concerned Court in that regard. Thus, the plea in

support of the allegation of larger conspiracy is tenuous. (tt) As regards allegation No. (xv), it is submitted that public

prosecutor appointed by the State Government before the Nanavati- Shah Commission had not been named in the complaint, but now

during the arguments, his role in compromising the trials was being

highlighted. This cannot be countenanced. (uu) Significantly, the contents of the complaint dated 8.6.2006,

besides relying on the materials/affidavits filed before the Nanavati- Shah Commission, also note that there are some matters which

could not have been considered by Nanavati-Shah Commission and

reference is made to such matters. Even that aspect has been duly

investigated and the opinion formed by the SIT was that the same

are unconnected with the allegations of larger conspiracy. (vv) Noticeably, the final report dated 8.2.2012 was presented by

the SIT before the Metropolitan Magistrate pursuant to the direction

given by this Court on 12.9.201184 even before the Nanavati-Shah

Commission had submitted its report, which was tabled in the

Assembly on 18.2.2012. Furthermore, the allegation regarding

larger conspiracy of State-sponsored violence noted in the 84 supra at footnote No. 26 130 complaint, was required to be investigated only in the last case

investigated by the SIT i.e., Gulberg Society case being CR No.

67/2002. Not even a remote reference was made to such allegation

in the other eight cases investigated by the SIT. Similarly, no

allegation about unfair investigation done has been made against

the SIT in any of those cases including before this Court, except in

the present case. (ww) It is urged that since the appellant has now chosen not to

pursue allegation Nos. (i) and (iv), the entire basis of the complaint

dated 8.6.2006 has become irrelevant and redundant. For, stated

allegations were essentially about the larger conspiracy involving

highest political authority/bureaucracy and actions or inactions of

the high officials unfolding under dictation of the then Chief

Minister. The remaining allegations would then be unconnected

with the larger conspiracy and, therefore, need not be taken forward

against the then Chief Minister and high officials of the State

Government. In any case, every allegation has been duly enquired

into and investigated by the SIT before forming its opinion that no 131 case had been made out against the offenders named in the stated

complaint. (xx) The appellant, however, has now changed the goalpost by

placing emphasis on transcripts of Tehelka Tape on the argument

that genuineness of the tape had not been doubted; and, therefore,

to contend that the contents of the tape inspire confidence to proceed

against the persons named in the complaint. On the other hand,

even though the Tehelka tape did not form part of the complaint

dated 8.6.2006, which was filed almost four years after the events of

February, 2002 as the Tehelka tape surfaced only on 27.10.2007,

yet the SIT enquired into the same in the context of the persons

named in the complaint as offenders. For, in law, it could be used

as extra judicial confession only against the maker of the statement

and not against other persons though referred to in such a

statement85. In that light, the Tehelka tapes, heavily relied upon by

the appellant, were of no avail. Notably, the tapes have been relied

in three other cases investigated by the SIT and also in Gulberg

Society case being CR No. 67/2002, but the trial Court has adversely 85 R.K. Anand vs. Registrar, Delhi High Court, ( 2009) 8 SCC 106 and Rajat Prasad vs. Central Bureau of
Investigation , (2014) 6 SCC 495 132 commented upon the said tape, which decision is now subject matter

of appeal before the High Court and this Court in those cases. (yy) Further, even if the material in Tehelka sting operation being a

genuine work is to be accepted, it does not follow that the contents

of such tape would have probative value. Upon investigation, if it

was to be found that the tape and the contents have probative value,

only then it could be used, that too against the maker of the

statement alone and not against any other person. (zz) It was pointed out that Mr. Ashish Khaitan was examined as

PW-313 in trial of Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002 and

his version has been duly dealt with in the said judgment by the

Trial Court, for not accepting the contents thereof. (aaa) It is urged that the complainant has been continuously

introducing new arguments/allegations at different stages of the

proceedings. That has been depicted in the chart given in paragraph

45 of the Final Note Part-III of respondent No. 2, which reads thus: anti-Muslim
 prejudice/bias. 2. Allegation of A-1 on the Petitioner witnessed police SIT “collaborated
 post-mortem of afternoon of officers in the barracks on with accused
 the dead bodies 27.2.2002 leave while Ahmedabad persons and
 at Godhra instead of going burned. rewarded
 Railway Station directly to handsomely”. Role
 Airport, of SIT should be
 deliberately took investigated. (bbb) Insofar as fresh allegation regarding criminal negligence of fire

brigade in Ahmedabad under Mr. P.C. Pande, it obviously overlooks

the fact that fire brigade comes within the Ahmedabad Municipal

Corporation and not State police. Mr. P.C. Pande was Commissioner

of Police of Ahmedabad city and had nothing to do with the

functioning of fire brigade. In the complaint, a vague allegation is 136 made that the fire brigade/help did not reach on time when needed. However, that was owing to in many of the disturbed areas, roads

were blocked by putting obstacles. (ccc) Similarly, the allegation regarding post mortem of dead bodies

at Godhra Railway station being part of larger conspiracy, is founded

on conjectures and surmises. The Godhra incident was fully

investigated and tried in which no such case was put forth. That

matter had travelled to the High Court as well and now it is pending

in this Court. The issues regarding necessity to do post mortem of

the dead bodies in the Railway yard and the manner of doing it, has

been examined in those proceedings. In the name of protest petition,

the appellant intends to enlarge the scope of enquiry including into

fresh matters such as the manner in which the fire occurred in the

two coaches of Sabarmati Express on 27.2.2002, which aspect has

been thoroughly investigated in that case. The appellant had gone

to the extent of levelling insinuation by attributing fire ignited by the

persons inside the train themselves or by other persons from the

same community as part of larger conspiracy to spread hatred and

violence across the State. That too, with the involvement of the 137 political dispensation at the highest-level being part of larger

criminal conspiracy. The attempt of the appellant is to bring in all

other cases (Sardarpura case, Deepda Darwaza case, Ode case,

Naroda Patiya case, Naroda Gaam case, Best Bakery case, Bilkis

Bano case etc.), which have already been thoroughly investigated

and tried by the concerned Court including in respect of charge of

criminal conspiracy at the concerned level in the given case. That

cannot be countenanced. (ddd)It is urged that the appellant is also ill-advised to heavily rely

upon certain information in a book written by former Major General,

who never came to give his statement before the SIT, despite the

public notice issued on 28.4.2008 after the SIT was appointed by

this Court to investigate nine major cases. The book was written

only in 2018. The veracity of the contents thereof would only be in

the realm of guess work. (eee) It is urged that the SIT has done everything to the best of its

ability and as a team, investigated all the nine major cases assigned

to it by the Court. Despite the commendation by this Court about

the humongous task undertaken by the SIT, the appellant had the 138 impudence to make submission bordering on questioning the

integrity of the SIT appointed by this Court; and though the work

was completed by it under the strict vigil of this Court including the

Amicus Curiae who had taken assistance of all the stakeholders and

also Ms. Teesta Setalvad. The Amicus Curiae, in one sense, was

discharging the role of investigating into the work of Supreme Court

appointed investigators (the SIT) – investigating the investigators. The SIT, after taking over investigation of nine major cases assigned

to it by this Court, filed supplementary chargesheets in all those

cases and also pursued the cases until the stage of trial, and is still

reporting about the progress of those cases to this Court periodically. (fff) As regards the investigation of complaint dated 8.6.2006, it has

been done by more than one investigating officer during relevant

periods at different point of time as per the exigency and direction of

this Court, but the finding and observations of the SIT in every report

have been consistent. Significantly, the members of the SIT have

been continuing to function under the directions of this Court even

after their superannuation from service, only because this Court had

been satisfied about their performance. At one stage, similar 139 attempt was made by the appellant, as a result of which the Court

had to stay the trial of Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002,

which was eventually lifted on 1.5.200986 for the reasons noted in

the said order. In fact, this Court had taken note of the

misadventure of Ms. Teesta Setalvad in forwarding her letters

written to Chairperson of the Supreme Court appointed SIT to the

OHCHR, Geneva and that upon her undertaking that she will not do

so in future, the matter stood closed. It is urged that insinuations

have been made against the Supreme Court appointed SIT and, in

the process, the wisdom of this Court has been questioned in

accepting the work of SIT as fair and complete investigation of the

allegations in the stated complaint. (ggg) It is a matter of record that this Court reposed complete trust

in the SIT not only by entrusting responsibility of investigation of the

stated crime, but also to ensure that the trial of all those cases

proceeded in a fair manner and not compromised, by giving

authority to SIT to recommend names of able and apolitical lawyer

to be appointed as public prosecutor(s), including providing 86 supra at footnote No. 18 140 protection to witnesses when required. With the untiring efforts of

the Supreme Court appointed SIT, trials of eight other cases ended

in substantial number of convictions including imposition of capital

punishment. Such being the track record of the SIT, which has been

closely monitored by this Court from time to time to its satisfaction

and commended upon on more than one occasion, yet the appellant

has gone to the extent of questioning the integrity of the SIT, despite

the fairness in the investigation. Such a plea cannot be

countenanced and is in the nature of questioning the authority and

wisdom of this Court in expressing satisfaction about the

performance of the SIT and commending expressly on more than one

occasion inter alia, in its orders dated 1.5.200987 and 13.4.2017. (hhh) Notably, the stated complaint was submitted by appellant

– Zakia Ahsan Jafri and as no follow-up steps were taken by the

concerned authorities, a writ petition was filed by her for issuing

direction to the competent authority to register the same as FIR to

be investigated by an independent agency (not the Supreme Court

appointed SIT). Ms. Teesta Setalvad joined as petitioner No. 2 for 87 supra at footnote No. 18 141 the first time in these proceedings before the High Court. The High

Court vide judgment dated 2.11.2007 in Criminal Application No.

421/2007, opined that Ms. Teesta Setalvad had no locus to maintain

such application and decided the writ petition at the instance of

appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri, by permitting her to file appropriate

private complaint before the Magistrate under Section 190 of the

Code. That opinion of the High Court has not been reversed by this

Court while disposing of SLP(Crl.) No. 1088/2008 on 12.9.201188. (iii) As noted earlier, even though the appellant had been pursuing

SLP(Crl.) No. 1088/2008 before this Court for direction to the

competent authority to register the complaint as FIR, this Court

permitted the trial of CR No. 67/2002 concerning Gulberg Society to

proceed, in which appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri was examined as

PW-337 on 22.10.2010. Even before the trial Court, she did not

raise any matter in her evidence regarding larger conspiracy referred

to in her complaint dated 8.6.2006. The material on record would

clearly suggest that she is being driven by Ms. Teesta Setalvad to

pursue and so to say, precipitate her complaint. The complaint, 88 supra at footnote No. 26 142 however, is vague and bereft of allegations of criminality. At best,

the allegations founded on the material/affidavits filed before the

Nanavati-Shah Commission, were indicative of dereliction of duty of

concerned officials/authorities. The complaint is based essentially

on the statements of Mr. R.B. Sreekumar, Mr. Rahul Sharma and

Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt, which may support the allegations of inaction or

dereliction of duty by the concerned high officials. The claims made

by these three persons, however, have been contradicted by the

concerned persons on the basis of contemporaneous record. The

complainant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri yet wants to proceed including on

the basis of statements of these three officials against the version of

the entire establishment, which is backed by contemporaneous

record. (jjj) Mr. R.B. Sreekumar had referred to Register, which was his

personal diary and not official record, as investigated and found by

the SIT. Being his personal diary, it could not be used against the

offenders named in the complaint and in any case, the contents

thereof being in the nature of entries made in the usual course of

official business by the concerned department expected to act in 143 tandem with concerned official agencies. The contents of the diary,

in the opinion of the SIT, were of no avail. He had filed affidavit

before the Nanavati-Shah Commission in the year 2009 for the first

time. In the earlier affidavits, no reference was made to the said

diary/register. Moreover, Mr. R.B. Sreekumar was posted in Law &

Order Division only in April, 2002 after the ghastly events had

already unfolded in February and March, 2002. Thus, he had no

personal knowledge about any instructions, much less allegedly

given to the high officials or by high officials to their subordinates at

the relevant point of time as being in the nature of criminal

conspiracy. (kkk) Similar is the case of Mr. Rahul Sharma, another star

witness of the complainant (appellant). He had referred to the call

records in question for the first time only in 2008. Before that, he

had filed more than one affidavit before the Nanavati-Shah

Commission making no reference to the said call records. Further,

in the subsequent affidavit, the stand taken by him is completely

different. It is the case of the SIT that after lapse of one year, no

details regarding call records are preserved by the service provider. To the same end, seizure of mobile phone after lapse of seven years

would have had served no purpose. Further, the authentication of

the call details/records supplied by Mr. Rahul Sharma and the call

details/records available with the SIT were duly considered before

forming opinion by the SIT. Mr. Rahul Sharma claims to have been

authorised to assist the supervisory officer in investigation of the

post-Godhra riot case, which were being investigated by Crime

Branch – Ahmedabad city, by the then Commissioner of Police,

Ahmedabad City. He was neither investigating officer nor direct

supervisory officer in the Naroda Police Station CR No. I 193/2002. He claims to have obtained compact disc containing call details in

connection with stated case of Naroda Police Station from two

different cell phone service providers (M/s. Cellforce and M/s. AT&T)

containing call details of all subscribers in Ahmedabad city and

Godhra as case property of the offences under investigation. However, he failed to hand over the said case property to the

investigating/supervisory officer of the case, nor got it entered into

the register of case property (Muddamal) and also not informed the

Court of jurisdiction about the seizure of aforesaid case property. Whereas, he produced the compact disc for the first time only on 145 31.5.2008, for reasons best known to him. The compact disc

produced by Mr. Rahul Sharma before the Nanavati-Shah

Commission was then obtained by Mr. Amresh N. Patel, Jan- Sangharsh Manch from the Commission of inquiry, as also, by the

investigating officer. It was not possible for the SIT to obtain

certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 as

the original compact discs were never produced by Mr. Rahul

Sharma. Notably, the data from the compact discs were admittedly

copied by Mr. Rahul Sharma in his personal computer and in the

changed format i.e., ZIPPED format. In other words, Mr. Rahul

Sharma had failed to ensure the integrity of the data and never

produced the original compacts discs of the two mobile service

providers. Despite that, the SIT attempted to authenticate the

available data by sending it to Forensic Science Laboratory,

Ahmedabad for examination, comparison and checking the contents

available therein. The laboratory has opined that MD5 Hash value

of the files in all the three compact discs were found to be same, but

the call data records in the CPU of personal computer of Mr. Rahul

Sharma indicated that the files containing call data records or

fragments of the files could not be found on the computer storage 146 media. The SIT also recorded statements of various witnesses under Section 161 of the Code for tracing the original compact discs and

authenticating the available data (late Mr. Ashok Bhatt, Mr. P.C.

Pande, Dr. Anil T. Patel), but the original compact discs could not be

traced. The final report has analysed the statements of the said

persons and the opinion of the SIT in detail. It was noticed that the

call details of the Gandhinagar tower where most of the functionaries

of the Government of Gujarat were placed, was not available with

the SIT, as the same had not been requisitioned/obtained by Mr.

Rahul Sharma during investigation of the riot cases. The SIT has

thoroughly investigated even this aspect and all related material and

having found that the said material appears to be doctored and

fabricated and not in consonance with the official records. It thus

noted its conclusion that the same was of no avail to proceed against

the named offenders for offence of larger conspiracy in connection

with C.R. No. 67/2002 concerning Gulberg Society or otherwise. (lll) It is urged that the appellant is heavily relying on the

statements of Mr. Rahul Sharma, despite the fact that in the

complaint dated 8.6.2006, he was named as offender No. 45 and 147 accusations against him were specifically mentioned against his

name in the body of the complaint while also showing him as witness

No. 5 in the same complaint. However, the copy of complaint filed

before this Court reveals that the relevant paragraph making

accusations against Mr. Rahul Sharma has been deleted alongwith

his name as offender No. 45 in the complaint. This is a serious

matter. (mmm) The case of Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt is still worse. He has been

convicted for murder (as mentioned in paragraph 7 under the head

“Short Pointers” in the Convenience Compilation filed on behalf of

respondent No. 2); and for planting narcotics in the room of a lawyer

in some other State. He had claimed that he was present in the

meeting convened on 27.2.2002. But all officers who were present

in the meeting, have denied his claim. (nnn) Relying on the observations made in the decision in Sanjiv Rajendra Bhatt vs. Union of India & Ors.89 , it was urged

that the same were indicative of the character and conduct of Mr.

Sanjiv Bhatt, who falsely claimed to have remained present during 89 (2016) 1 SCC 1 (paras 49 to 55) 148 the meeting of high officials on 27.2.2002, where the then Chief

Minister had allegedly made certain objectionable utterances. (ooo) The appellant wants this Court to disregard the version of all

other high officials and to proceed against the named offenders only

on the basis of version of three persons proclaiming themselves as

being wedded to truth. As a matter of fact, it is urged that all the

three persons on whose statements emphasis has been placed, have

been adversely commented upon not only by the Nanavati-Shah

Commission, but also by the SIT in its final report including the

damning observations by this Court against Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt. (ppp) Moreover, the appellant has repeatedly argued that the SIT

did not record statement of Mr. Anil Patel, which fact is contrary to

the record. At the same time, the appellant placed reliance on the

statements of Mr. Anil Patel, who has not been named as offender in

the complaint dated 8.6.2006. In fact, there are three persons

having common name. The first is – Mr. Anil Tribhovandas Patel,

the then Minister, Gujarat; second being Mr. Anil Shankerbhai Patel,

a VHP worker; and the third – Dr. Anil Patel, a general practitioner

at Ahmedabad City. (qqq) As stated earlier, the repeated grievance made on behalf of the

appellant that crucial witness – Mr. Anil Patel was not even

examined by the SIT, is incorrect submission. In that, there are

three persons with same name and the person who has been stung

by operation Tehelka is Mr. Anil Shankerbhai Patel, a VHP worker,

whose statement was duly recorded by the SIT including the other

two persons with the same name, namely, Dr. Anil Patel and Mr. Anil

Tribhovandas Patel, the then Minister, Gujarat. The SIT had also

recorded statements of 13 other persons out of total 18 involved in

sting operation, which were found to be relevant for the purpose of

enquiry into the allegations under consideration. (rrr) As regards the allegation regarding dead bodies having been

paraded, the same has been fully enquired into and the SIT was of

the opinion that no such event of parading had occurred at any

place. However, a novel argument is being pursued by the appellant

before this Court. For, the allegation in the complaint was of having

handed over dead bodies to private persons, namely, Hasmukh Patel

and Jaideep Patel. During the investigation, it has come to the fore

that the letter written by the Tehsildar, handing over bodies, 150 mentioned the name of Jaideep Patel, but that was not because of

the instructions given by any superior authority. Further, the local

Tehsildar has been proceeded departmentally for this folly. The

contemporaneous record including the statements of concerned

persons, however, reveal that the dead bodies were carried in closed

vehicles under police escort, alongwith whom Mr. Jaideep Patel had

merely travelled. The process of handing over of the dead bodies to

the officials of the hospital at Ahmedabad was in fact done by the

officials/police accompanying the dead bodies and not by Mr.

Jaideep Patel. After taking charge of the dead bodies, the officials of

hospitals handed over the same, after due identification, to their

relatives and the bodies which could not be identified despite effort

of DNA test matching, were cremated by the local officials at

Ahmedabad. There is not even a tittle of material to indicate that

the bodies were taken in open vehicles or so to say, paraded from

Godhra to Ahmedabad or anywhere else by any group of private

persons before cremation. The decision to take bodies to

Ahmedabad was a conscious and unanimous decision of the

concerned authorities at the local level and not on instructions or

directions given by the then Chief Minister, as alleged. It was so 151 decided as majority of the dead persons were from Ahmedabad and

nearby places. In that, out of 58 dead bodies, 4 bodies belonging to

Dahod, Vadodara, Panchmahal and Anand districts were handed

over to their legal representatives after identification at Godhra itself. The remaining 54 bodies were sent under police escort to

Ahmedabad, as most of the victims were resident of Ahmedabad and

nearby areas. Out of 54 bodies, 35 could be identified and handed

over to their relatives on 28.2.2002. Remaining 19 bodies were

cremated by the officials on 1.3.2002, out of which 12 could be later

on identified by DNA test and 7 remained unidentified. Hence, it is

seen that it became convenient for the relatives of the deceased

persons to collect the dead bodies from Ahmedabad. It was also

decided to take the dead bodies during night time under police

protection to avoid any untoward situation. Such being the material

on record, the argument regarding the bodies being paraded, much

less as a part of larger conspiracy at the highest level, is

preposterous. (sss) To begin with, the appellant had argued that dead bodies were

purposely paraded all over, but later improved upon that grievance 152 by showing that parading of bodies was done after hospital handed

over bodies, duly identified, to the respective relative until the same

was taken for cremation. (ttt) Significantly, the complaint dated 8.6.2006 neither makes

mention about hate speeches being outcome of larger conspiracy nor

it is alleged that so-called parading of dead bodies was resorted to

as part of larger conspiracy. (uuu) Much had been argued by the appellant about no

investigation by the SIT in respect of hate speeches. It is submitted

by the learned counsel for the SIT that thousands of cases were

reopened by this Court, wherein ‘A’ Summary Report(s) came to be

filed and in some of those cases, charges regarding hate speeches

have been enquired into. (vvv) It is urged that the allegations regarding build-up or laxity

or about the post-mortem done in open in Railway yard, failure to

provide for adequate bandobast or arranging fire brigade on time,

are not supported by any credible material, much less to raise a

strong suspicion to proceed against the named offenders being

involved in larger conspiracy. Appellant had the gumption to 153 contend, suggestive of the fact that the train was set on fire at

Godhra by the passengers themselves or by persons belonging to

their own community who were engaged in doing preparatory (build- up) arrangements. (www) The attempt of the appellant was to present rambling facts

to create confusion, leaving out core issues that needed to be

focussed to cull out the material on the basis of which an objective

and decisive opinion could be formed that the offence of larger

conspiracy at the highest level had been committed and the named

offenders have committed the same. That is completely absent and

for which reason, the appellant has chosen to make such

pretentious presentation before this Court including not to argue on

allegation Nos. (i) and (iv) concerning larger conspiracy involving the

then Chief Minister and other high officials of the State Government. Instead, the appellant has now adopted a stratagem only to focus on

the other allegations in the complaint and further allegations

mentioned in the protest petition on the specious argument that

those allegations can be made good on the basis of undisputed

documents and record. This is a subterfuge created by the appellant 154 for achieving the ill-intended design of keeping the charge or

allegation of larger conspiracy as noted in allegation nos. (i) and (iv)

open, by adopting circuitous route little realising that the other

allegations are all unconnected and have no causal bearing with the

allegations of larger conspiracy by the then Chief Minister and other

high officials named as offenders in the complaint. (xxx) The appellant had the audacity to assert in the protest

petition that it is open to her to keep on adding new materials and

allegations which the Court is bound to examine to do complete

justice, so that she would succeed in her design to keep the pot

boiling and politicising the crime. This indeed was being done at the

instance of the group of persons in the name of so-called public- spirited persons like Ms. Teesta Setalvad. The protest petition is not

a genuine protest petition by any standard. (yyy) Indisputably, large number of criminal cases came to be

registered after the mass violence across the State. It is stated that

around 2000 cases came to be registered concerning the mass

violence out of which nine major cases were assigned to the SIT by

this Court vide order passed in writ petition filed by NHRC. In none 155 of the cases including nine cases, any evidence of alleged larger

conspiracy came to the fore either during the investigation or during

the trial of those cases. It is only in the complaint under

consideration that allegation of larger conspiracy at the highest level

of Government has been made, which remained unsubstantiated,

leave alone creating suspicion against the offenders named in the

complaint. If this conjured plea was to be encouraged, it may give

rise to uncertainty and possibility of reopening hundreds of cases,

already concluded and may be pending in appeals before the High

Court or this Court. (zzz) The attempt of the appellant is to continue with unfounded

allegations against the then Chief Minister/politicians/high

officials/bureaucrats without raising those allegations during the

investigation of CR No. 67/2002 concerning Gulberg Society at the

earliest opportunity after publication of notice by the SIT inviting

public to give their statement, if they were so interested and had any

specific information about such crime. No one came forward

including Mr. R.B. Sreekumar, Mr. Rahul Sharma and Mr. Sanjiv

Bhatt, who now claim to be the protagonist of truth to depose those 156 facts before the SIT. As a matter of fact, appellant – Zakia Ahsan

Jafri, who has been examined as witness in Gulberg Society case

being CR No. 67/2002 as PW-337 was not an eye-witness as such,

but was only present in the house when the events unfolded. She

had admitted of having given statement on affidavit to the Nanavati- Shah Commission, as well as before the Court under instructions of

Ms. Teesta Setalvad and Mr. R.B. Sreekumar. Such being the case

coupled with the limited remit given to the SIT by this Court, the

question of directing further investigation of any other matter

besides the allegations in the complaint and at this distance of time,

would be travesty of justice, abuse of process and ought not to be

countenanced. (aaaa) The whole attempt of the appellant appears to be to

persuade this Court to direct the SIT to reinvestigate the crime of

criminal conspiracy, which has already been tried by the Court of

competent jurisdiction, in which the accused named therein have

already been acquitted. Any such attempt would be infringement of

their right guaranteed under Section 300 of the Code and Article 22 of the Constitution. If the appellant was so keen, she should have 157 availed of the opportunity in the form of liberty granted by the High

Court on 2.11.2007 by filing private complaint rather than pursuing

allegations of larger conspiracy or any crime other than enquired

and tried in connection with Gulberg Society case being CR No.

67/2002. Having failed to do so and being party to the orders passed

by this Court from time to time on the special leave petition(s) filed

by them against the order of the High Court, it is not open to argue

in the teeth of such directions. It is now too late for them to contend

that the complaint dated 8.6.2006 be proceeded as a private

complaint or be registered as FIR, much less to permit her to raise

fresh allegations in 2013 by way of protest petition. (bbbb) It is the submission of the SIT that it had done much more

than “looking into” the complaint albeit under the supervision of this

Court by examining and questioning several persons and presenting

periodical reports to this Court including the final report before the

Metropolitan Magistrate unlike in any other normal criminal case. (cccc) At the end of the investigation done by the SIT, it has been

noticed that the allegation regarding larger conspiracy mentioned in

the complaint dated 8.6.2006 was based on material which was 158 either found to be fabricated or unuseful, leave alone raising any ray

of suspicion to proceed against the named offenders. (dddd) Involvement of Babu Bajrangi unravelled from Tehelka

Tape transcript, does not have any impact on the allegation

regarding larger conspiracy, which alone needs to be dealt with in

these proceedings. As a matter of fact, Babu Bajrangi had been

named as accused in Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002

and the evidence against him has been dealt with appropriately in

that case, resulting in his conviction. His version in the tape, at best

would be in the nature of extra judicial confession to be used against

him and not against any other person. (eeee) Allegation of larger conspiracy at the highest level can be

proceeded further only if there is substantive evidence to establish

the same or could be so inferred on the basis of such substantive

evidence. The substantive evidence of Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt, who

allegedly claimed to be present in the meeting of 27.2.2002, stands

rebutted and falsified by all the other persons who were actually and

physically present in the stated meeting, who in one voice mentioned

that he was not present in the meeting. (ffff) As a matter of fact, the SIT in the final report submitted

allegation-wise and offender-wise, concluded that no offence has

been made out, as alleged against any of the named offenders. (gggg) The SIT had also considered the findings and

recommendations of NHRC while analysing the entire material

collated by it during investigation. The same has been extensively

discussed in the final report from pages 312-320. Needless to

underscore that the findings and recommendations of the NHRC by

itself cannot be the basis to fasten criminal liability on the erring

officials/administrators. For that, hard evidence indicating the acts

of commission or omission constituting some offence is available

either in the form of oral or documentary evidence. There must be

substantive piece of material which will pass the muster of

admissible evidence before the Court of law to fasten criminal

liability. This is reinforced from the purport of Section 15 of the

Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 or Section 6 of the 1952 Act,

as well. (hhhh) Similarly, some opinion formed or observation made in

the enquiry report of any private forum/commission also cannot 160 have any bearing on the criminal action to be instituted or pursued

against any erring official/administrator. Notably, in the present

case, the complainant has verily relied upon the affidavits of officials

filed before the Nanavati-Shah Commission referring to revelation of

relevant fact by certain persons who themselves had no personal

knowledge and their claim regarding presence in the official meeting

is falsified on the basis of overwhelming evidence to the contrary. Merely because one person claims about the existence of a particular

fact, does not give rise to a triable issue unless that version is

corroborated by contemporaneous evidence/material and more so

when there is substantive evidence to indicate falsity of his claim. The private Commission founded its observations on the basis of

disclosure made by some unidentified Minister. When in fact the

overwhelming evidence indicated that no cabinet minister was

present in the review meeting, which was attended only by high

officials presided over by the Chief Minister. Similarly, the presence

of Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt stands falsified by the consistent statements

given by high officials who were present in the meeting. All this has

been thoroughly analysed by the SIT and recorded in the final report. In light of such overwhelming material, it was not even a case of 161 slightest of suspicion against the highest functionary of the State for

having made any utterances attributed to him by these persons. Those utterances being the fulcrum of the allegation regarding State

sponsored violence, all other incidental allegations and more

particularly, unconnected with the theory of larger conspiracy by the

highest office, must fall to the ground being unsubstantiated. To

buttress this argument, reliance has been placed on contents of final

report from pages 245-260. (iiii) It is argued that the police report or chargesheet ought to

contain crystalised case about the involvement of named offenders

having committed the offence under consideration and mere

perception of suspicion is of no avail. That is the mandate

underlying Section 169 read with 173(2)(i)(d) of the Code. Such case

cannot be made out on the basis of personal diary entries as

observed in Central Bureau of Investigation vs. V.C. Shukla &

Ors.90 . (jjjj) In other words, even if the material collated during the

investigation discloses suspicion, that may not be sufficient for the 90 (1998) 3 SCC 410 (Jain Havala Case) 162 investigating officer to opine that the offence has been made out,

much less have been committed by the offender/accused warranting

his prosecution in that regard. It is a different matter that the

Magistrate for issuing process, taking cognizance or framing charge

against such person, can do so merely on the basis of strong

suspicion. The scale of satisfaction to be reached by the

investigating officer for being convinced that an offence has been

committed and the concerned person is involved in the commission

of that offence, is qualitatively different than mere case of suspicion. For that, the investigating officer must be certain, at least prima facie

(in his mind), that the material/statement on which he proposes to

rely to prosecute any person would pass the muster of legally

admissible evidence during the trial. Indeed, such a view is a

tentative view to be taken by the investigating officer before

presenting the chargesheet for prosecuting named person for having

committed (cognizable) offence in question on the basis of entirety of

the material in his possession. In other words, the job of an

investigating agency does not and cannot end in merely establishing

a prima facie case of strong suspicion. Whereas, he is obliged to

unearth the entire truth and not merely leave the job at the stage of 163 strong suspicion. In doing so, the investigating officer does not

merely rely upon the version of the complainant but is obliged to

examine the matter from all angles including to test the authenticity

of the possibilities emerging therefrom and then forming his opinion

as to what he would believe to be the true course of events. It must,

therefore, follow that the investigating agency does not act as mere

post office, but is obliged in law to examine the veracity, quality,

believability of any material that is unearthed during the

investigation and then to form opinion (in its mind) on the totality of

the circumstances as discernible from the entirety of the materials

on hand and record that in the form of police report under Section

173 of the Code to be presented before the Magistrate. The

investigating agency, by the nature of its duties, is required to adopt

one version of the events that it would believe to have occurred whilst

submitting report under Section 173 of the Code. In presenting a

report to send the accused for trial of being involved in commission

of offence merely on the basis of suspicious circumstances,

therefore, would be a case of abdication of statutory duty of the

investigating agency and may not also serve the cause of justice. (kkkk) It is submitted that there is hardly any argument

presented and brought home by the appellant regarding

shortcomings in the material adverted to in the final report or about

the improper understanding of the SIT in that regard. Given the

material and its analysis in the final report, the conclusion reached

by the SIT is unassailable, namely, that no case had been made out

to proceed against the persons named in the complaint as offenders

for offence of larger conspiracy or for that matter, any other crime. (llll) In substance, it is urged that no fault can be found with the

satisfaction recorded by the SIT in the final report that no case for

proceeding against the named offender has been made out, much

less of having indulged in larger criminal conspiracy. Even the

Magistrate had applied its mind to the totality of the material

produced by the SIT alongwith the final report including the issues

raised in the protest petition whilst rejecting the same and accepting

the final report of the SIT. To buttress the argument that the

investigation is the exclusive prerogative of the SIT including to form

opinion one way or the other on the basis of the material collated by

it during investigation and it does not affect the powers of the 165 Magistrate to direct further investigation, reliance is placed on the

decisions of this Court in State of Bihar & Anr. vs. JAC Saldanha

& Ors.91, M.C. Abraham & Anr. vs. State of Maharashtra &

Ors.92 and Shariff Ahmed & Ors. vs. State (NCT of Delhi )93. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT – STATE OF GUJARAT 8. (a) The learned Solicitor General of India appearing for the

State of Gujarat broadly adopted the arguments advanced on behalf

of the SIT. In addition, he contended that the allegation regarding

larger conspiracy is being pursued by Ms. Teesta Setalvad only out

of vengeance, so as to defame the entire State of Gujarat. The entire

case in the complaint was mainly resting upon the official records

and affidavits of officials of the State of Gujarat filed before Nanavati- Shah Commission, to take forward allegation of State sponsored

crime and of targeting the minorities in the State. Appellant – Zakia

Ahsan Jafri was used as a tool to further the said design, who in

turn fell prey to the influence exerted by Ms. Teesta Setalvad and 91 (1980) 1 SCC 554 92 (2003) 2 SCC 649 93 (2009) 14 SCC 184 166 lent her name as complainant in the complaint dated 8.6.2006 being

the widow of deceased – Mr. Ehsan Jafri, Member of Parliament. There is material in the final report suggestive of Ms. Teesta Setalvad

having conjured facts and evidence including fabrication of

documents by persons who were to be prospective witnesses of the

complainant. It is not only a case of fabrication of documents, but

also of influencing and tutoring the witnesses and making them

depose on pre-typed affidavit, as has been noted in the judgment of

the High Court dated 11.7.2011 in Criminal Miscellaneous

Application No. 1692/201194. That fact came to the fore in the

admission given by appellant – Zakia Ahsan Jafri during her cross- examination in the Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002. As

a matter of fact, the learned Solicitor General would submit that the

SIT should have taken steps to prosecute Ms. Teesta Setalvad for

damning the elected representatives, bureaucracy and police

administration of the whole State of Gujarat for ulterior purposes. Even in the case of husband of Ms. Teesta Setalvad, the High Court

had strongly deprecated his conduct. B.H. Somani, Registrar vs. State of Gujarat & Anr. (b) The learned Solicitor General took us through the judgment of

the High Court, dated 12.2.2015 dealing with applications for grant

of anticipatory bail filed by Teesta Atul Setalvad and her husband –

Firozkhan Sayeedkhan Pathan in connection with CR No. 1/2014

for offences punishable under Sections 420 , 406 , 468 , 120-B of the

IPC and Section 72 A of the Information Technology Act, 2000,

pointing out observations therein as to how the donation money

collected by them in the name of Sabrang Trust on the

representation that the same would be spent on poor and needy

persons affected by the mass violence, has been misused and

misappropriated for their personal pleasure and comfort. The High

Court rejected that application having found that custodial

interrogation of the applicants would be necessary. Relying on

adverse observations, it is urged that the present proceedings were

not genuine proceedings and the appellant has been set up, who is

unaware about the real position. Reliance was also placed on the

decision of this Court in Testa Setalvad95, dealing with the powers

of police officer to seize certain property in the course of investigation 95 supra at Footnote No. 62 168 and the observations made by this Court against Ms. Testa (Teesta)

Setalvad and her husband for rejecting the said appeal challenging

the authority of the police officer to effect seizure. (c) In substance, it is argued on behalf of the State of Gujarat that

the complaint dated 8.6.2006 had to be proceeded with only because

of the indulgence shown by this Court on 27.4.200996 by issuing

direction to the SIT to “look into” it and do the needful, whereafter

subsequent steps have been taken by the SIT, strictly under the

supervision of this Court including close monitoring by the Amicus

Curiae appointed by this Court. It is, therefore, not open to the

appellant to question the wisdom of this Court in accepting the

investigation made by the SIT as completed; and also directing the

SIT to present its report before the Magistrate taking cognizance in

Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002 by reckoning the report

as one under Section 173 of the Code. This Court not only selected

the major nine cases, which were required to be investigated under

Court monitoring by the SIT appointed by this Court, but also

selecting the SIT members who enjoyed high reputation and wide 96 supra at footnote Nos. 4 and 17 169 experience behind them in reaching the high position. Besides, this

Court empowered the SIT to not only fairly investigate, but to ensure

that the trial in connection with those cases is not compromised in

any manner, for which it could recommend the names of advocates

as public prosecutors and submit periodical report to this Court. This Court also ensured fair trial by requesting the Chief Justice of

the concerned High Court to personally identify Judges to preside as

Special Court for conducting the trial of those selected cases. Such

is the gamut of directions and sui generis procedure adopted by this

Court in relation to the complaint dated 8.6.2006, whilst allowing

the trial in Gulberg Society case being CR No. 67/2002 to proceed

parallelly. Indubitably, the investigation could be done by the SIT

only as per the remit given to it and on the same logic even the

Courts ought to deal with the matter on the same scale. (d) He invited our attention to Nanavati-Shah Commission report

and the conclusion recorded therein including about the prompt

measures taken by the State Government, immediately after the

incident in question and thereafter to restore normalcy. The State

Government had to deal with a situation which was unparalleled and 170 the entire State administration was overrun by such unprecedented

mass violence. (e) In the end, he submits that even though the issues raised by

the appellant are unfounded and unsubstantiated, the matter is

being pursued with full vigour at the behest of Ms. Teesta Setalvad,

whose sole intention is to keep the matter alive as rightly contended

by the learned counsel for the SIT. The learned Solicitor General

argues that there is no need to have a relook at the opinion of the

SIT or case for further investigation as propounded by the appellant. Even in his submission, neither the opinion formed by the SIT after

thorough investigation and proper analysis of the entire material

collated by it during investigation, is flawed nor the final order of the

Magistrate to accept the final report submitted by the SIT and in

rejecting the protest petition or that of the High Court in that regard,

requires further scrutiny at the hands of this Court under Article

136 of the Constitution of India. He has, therefore, prayed for

dismissal of this appeal. 9. We have heard Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel for the

appellant, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel for the SIT and

Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General for the State of Gujarat. CONSIDERATION 10. It is cardinal that upon receipt of the complaint such as dated

 8.6.2006, the concerned police officer, if has reason to suspect the

 commission of an offence referred to therein, ought to proceed with

 the investigation consequent to registration of FIR under Section

 154 , since it discloses commission of a cognizable offence. As that

 did not happen, the appellant had to approach the High Court for

 issuing direction to register the stated complaint as FIR. Had the

 FIR been registered by the station officer on his own, he would have

 been obliged to proceed further as expounded in H.N. Rishbund97. In this decision, the Court, inter alia, noted thus: - There is no provision permitting delegation thereof but only a
 provision entitling superior officers to supervise or participate
 under Section 551.”
 (emphasis supplied)” 11. This Court in Dayal Singh98 noted that the investigating

 officer is obliged to act as per the Police Manual and known canons

 of practice while being diligent, truthful and fair in his/her

 approach and investigation. It has been noted in the reported

 decision that an investigating officer is completely responsible and

 answerable for the manner and methodology adopted in completing

 his investigation99. Concededly, upon completion of investigation,

 the investigating officer is obliged to submit report setting out

 prescribed details, to the Magistrate empowered to take cognizance

 of the offence referred to therein, without unnecessary delay. The

 report so presented is the conclusion reached by the investigating

 officer on the basis of materials collected during investigation. The

 duty of the investigating officer is to collate every relevant

 information/material during the investigation, which he must

 believe to be the actual course of events and the true facts 98 supra at Footnote No. 57 99 Also see JAC Saldanha & Ors. (supra at Footnote No. 91), M.C. Abraham (supra at Footnote No. 92) and Shariff
Ahmed (supra at Footnote No. 93) 175 unraveling the commission of the alleged crime and the person

involved in committing the same. He is expected to examine the

materials from all angles. In the event, there is sufficient evidence

or reasonable ground that an offence appears to have been

committed and the person committing such offence has been

identified, the investigating officer is obliged to record his opinion in

that regard, as required by Section 173(2)(i)(d) of the Code. In other

words, if the investigating officer intends to send the accused for

trial, he is obliged to form a firm opinion not only about the

commission of offence, but also about the involvement of such

person in the commission of crime. 12. Such opinion is the culmination of the analysis of the materials

collected during the investigation - that there is “strong suspicion”

against the accused, which eventually will lead the concerned Court

to think that there is a ground for “presuming” that the accused

“has” committed the alleged offence; and not a case of mere

suspicion. For being a case of strong suspicion, there must exist

sufficient materials to corroborate the facts and circumstances of

the case; and be of such weight that it would facilitate the Court

concerned to take cognizance of the crime and eventually lead it to 176 think (form opinion) that there is ground “for presuming that the

accused has committed an offence”, as alleged – so as to frame a

charge against him in terms of Section 228(1) or 246(1) of the Code,

as the case may be. For taking cognizance of the crime or to frame

charges against the accused, the Court must analyze the report filed

by the investigating officer and all the materials appended thereto

and then form an independent prima facie opinion as to whether

there is ground for “presuming” that the accused “has” committed

an offence, as alleged. (It is not, “may” have or “likely” to have

committed an offence, but a ground for presuming that he has

committed an offence). The Magistrate in the process may have to

give due weightage to the opinion of the investigating officer. If such

is to be the eventual outcome of the final report presented by the

investigating officer, then there is nothing wrong if he applies the

same standard to form an opinion about the materials collected

during the investigation and articulate it in the report submitted

under Section 173 of the Code. It may be useful to refer to the 177 decisions adverted to in Afroz Mohd. Hasanfata100 including in the

 case of Ramesh Singh101 and I.K. Nangia102. 13. After cogitating over the rival submissions, the foremost issue

that needs to be answered is about the remit of the SIT to investigate

the matter further and correspondingly that of the Magistrate, in the

peculiar facts of the present case. It is noticed that appellant had

filed a complaint dated 8.6.2006 by which time the FIR in respect of

the incident unfolded on 28.2.2002 in Gulberg Society including

involving the dastardly attack on the husband of the appellant and

others was already registered and proceeded further by the local

police as per the provisions of the Code. Contemporaneously, in the

proceedings filed before this Court including by the NHRC, the

grievance regarding improper investigation in respect of several

cases registered across the State of Gujarat in reference to the mass

violence during the relevant period including four crimes in respect

of Gulberg Society episode were being examined. During the same

time, appellant was pursuing her complaint dated 8.6.2006

addressed to the Director General of Police, Gujarat. As no response 100 supra at Footnote No. 31 101 supra at Footnote No. 41 102 supra at Footnote No. 42 178 was received, the appellant was advised to file application before the

High Court for issuing direction to the Gujarat police to register the

said complaint as FIR. That petition was finally dismissed by the

High Court on 2.11.2007, whereby appellant was relegated to file

appropriate private complaint and invoke Section 190 read with

Section 200 of the Code. This decision was assailed by filing SLP(C)

No. 1088/2008, which indisputably was heard (allowed to be heard

by the appellant without any demur) along with the petitions

pending before this Court including the petition filed by the NHRC. 14. The common order passed by this Court on 26.3.2008103 leaves

no manner of doubt that the four crimes registered in respect of

Gulberg Society were to be investigated further by the SIT

constituted by this Court in terms of the same order. In respect of

the complaint submitted by appellant dated 8.6.2006, a specific

order came to be passed by this Court on 27.4.2009104, thereby

directing the SIT to look into the matter and take steps as required

by law and submit report to this Court within three months. Finally,

the SLP filed by the appellant and Ms. Teesta Setalvad was disposed 103 supra at Footnote Nos. 6 and 16 104 supra at Footnote Nos. 4 and 17 179 of on 12.9.2011105 until which date, the SIT continued with the

investigation/enquiry into the stated complaint and submitted

appropriate report(s) to this Court. We must assume, and there

could be no other import or assumption, that this Court was all

throughout conscious of the fact that the four crimes registered

pertaining to the Gulberg Society including the gruesome killing of

husband of appellant and others, were already being investigated by

the SIT and proceeded for trial consequent to filing of the

chargesheet/supplementary chargesheet by the SIT. Concededly,

this Court by an express order, had permitted those trials to

continue further. In those trials, the allegations of criminal

conspiracy and the commission of crime pursuant to such criminal

conspiracy had already been put in issue. In that sense, the limited

aspect of the contents of the complaint dated 8.6.2006, which

remained to be dealt with was about the allegations of larger criminal

conspiracy at the highest level resulting into mass violence across

the State during the relevant period. 15. In other words, the steps taken by the SIT during the pendency

of proceedings before this Court and even after the disposal of the

SLP filed by the appellant on 12.9.2011106, were under the clear

directions and aegis of this Court. The tenor of directions issued by

this Court are ascribable to the plenary powers exercised under Article 142 of the Constitution. In that, this Court consciously

allowed the (four) crimes registered concerning Gulberg Society

unfolded on 28.2.2002 to proceed for trial, including the charge of

criminal conspiracy for commission of such offence; and at the same

time, showed indulgence to the appellant by directing the SIT to look

into the complaint dated 8.6.2006 – obviously, in respect of matters

which were not overlapping with the trial(s) pertaining to Gulberg

Society case(s) and other cases investigated by the SIT. 16. Notably, this Court consciously directed, vide order dated

7.2.2013107, to treat the statements recorded by the SIT in

connection with the investigation/enquiry concerning the complaint

of appellant as made under Section 161 of the Code; and to form

part of the report submitted by the SIT to the Court concerned, 106 supra at Footnote No. 26 107 see para 5(y) above 181 which had taken cognizance of Crime Report No. 67/2002

concerning Gulberg Society, in terms of order dated 12.9.2011108,

treating it as a police report under Section 173(2) of the Code. This

presupposes that the further investigation by the SIT was on the

assumption that the complaint dated 8.6.2006 may contain new

information/material other than already enquired into in connection

with Crime Report No. 67/2002 – as permissible under Section

173(8) of the Code. No more and no less. 17. All the aforestated circumstances and the judicial orders

passed by this Court from time to time on the petition filed by the

appellant would go to show that this Court had implicitly rejected

her prayer to register the stated complaint as an independent FIR or

for that matter, as an independent private complaint for being

proceeded further. The successive orders passed by this Court and

directions issued to SIT were only to look into the aspects that were

not part of the cases investigated by the SIT including the (four)

criminal cases concerning Gulberg Society - as the same were

already registered and proceeded for trial, in particular, criminal 108 supra at Footnote No. 26 182 conspiracy hatched in the commission of those crimes. Inasmuch

as, all other aspects already formed part of enquiry and

chargesheet/trial of those cases. Not only that, even the other eight

cases assigned to SIT by this Court covered similar matters

including allegations of criminal conspiracy. To put it differently,

what remained to be looked into was only about the “allegations of

larger conspiracy at the highest level” which resulted into causing

mass violence across the State during the relevant period. 18. It is well settled that conspiracy can be hatched at different

levels. Thus, the conspiracy hatched at the middle or lower level

in the concerned cases filed across the State, including the Gulberg

Society incident unfolded on 28.2.2002 involving the gruesome

killing of Mr. Ehsan Jafri (husband of the appellant) and others,

covering nine sets of cases assigned to the SIT by this Court already

covered the expanse of criminal conspiracy concerning those cases. It was urged by the SIT that the trial Court in Gulberg trial had

disregarded the case of conspiracy even amongst the accused sent

for trial in that case and had opined that there was no pre-planned

intention to commit violence at the Gulberg Society. If so, it is

unfathomable that any larger conspiracy had been hatched at the 183 higher level, as alleged. In any case, the remit of the SIT in terms of

directions given by this Court in relation to the complaint filed by

appellant dated 8.6.2006 ought to be limited to the allegations of the

larger criminal conspiracy at the highest level, which allegedly

resulted in mass violence across the State during the relevant

period. In that backdrop, we may have to analyze the case on hand. 19. Be it noted that after this Court, vide order dated 27.4.2009109,

directed the SIT to look into the complaint of appellant dated

8.6.2006, the SIT moved into action and culled out the summary of

allegations exposited in the stated complaint. The SIT identified

broadly thirty allegations in the complaint which read thus: - (ii) CM's decision to bring dead bodies of those killed in Godhra
 train fire in Ahmedabad and parade them in Ahmedabad City 109 supra at Footnote Nos. 4 and 17 184 as testified by Shri Ashok Narayan in his cross-examination
before the Nanavati Commission. (iii) Numerous illegal instructions given verbally (by CM) to
officials as detailed in 3rd affidavit dated 09.04.2005 by R.B.
Sreekumar to the Nanavati Commission. (iv) Data in the 'Concerned Citizens Tribunal’ Report by panel
of Judges, Justice Sawant and Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer as in
para 10 of the complaint dated 08.06.2006 wherein it was
mentioned, inter alia, as : What transpired in the days that
followed the Godhra incident began with the Chief Minister of
the State announcing on 27.02.2002 through Akashvani Radio
that there was an ISI conspiracy, and deciding against the
advice of the Godhra Collector, Smt. Jayanti Ravi, to take
bodies of the burnt Kar sevaks in a ceremonial procession by
road to Ahmedabad. The tragic Godhra killings were used and
manipulated to justify pre-orchestrated mass carnage that
enjoyed the political sanction of the constitutionally elected
Government Top level meetings were held between the Chief
Minister, some of his Cabinet colleagues and top level
bureaucrats at which illegal instructions were issued to
perform illegal acts, Proof of this was documented by a Citizens
Tribunal constituted and headed by a former Judge of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, when a former Minister (Late Shri
Haren Pandya) testified about the details. (v) Cabinet Ministers I.K. Jadeja and Ashok Bhatt were
positioned in the DGP office and Ahmedabad City Police
Control Room respectively by CM. DGP Chakravarti was
critical of the Minister I.K. Jadeja remaining in his chamber,
as testified by R.B. Sreekumar in his fourth affidavit. (vi) Officers from field executive posts were transferred (by the
CM), in the thick of riots in 2002 despite DGP’s objection so as
to facilitate placement of those who were willing to subvert the
system for political and electoral benefits as narrated in para
67 of the complaint dated 08.06.2006, wherein instances of
punishment, ill treatment etc. are listed in respect of the
following officers: (1) Shri Rahul Sharma, IPS, (2) Shri Vivek
Shrivastava, IPS, (3) Shri Himanshu Bhatt, IPS, (4) Shri M.D.
Antani, IPS, (5) Shri R.B. Sreekumar, IPS and (6) Shri
Satishchandra Verma, IPS. (vii) Senior officials were rewarded with undue benefits, even
while their conduct was under the scrutiny of Nanavati 185 Commission, as narrated in Para 68 of the complaint dated
08.06.2006, wherein "Rewards" for collaborating with the
illegal plans of CM/BJP during 2002 riots and afterwards are
listed in respect of the following officers: (1) Shri G. Subba Rao,
IAS, the then Chief Secretary, (2) Shri Ashok Narayan, IAS, the
then ACS (Home), (3) Dr. P. K. Mishra, IAS, the then PS to CM,
(4) Shri A. K. Bhargava, IPS, (5) Shri P. C. Pandey, IPS (6) Shri
Kuldeep Sharma, IPS, (7) Shri M. K. Tandon, IPS, (8) Shri
Deepak Swaroop, IPS, (9) Shri K. Nityanandam, IPS, (9) Shri
Rakesh Asthana, IPS; (10) Shri A.K. Sharma, IPS, (11) Shri
Shivanand Jha, IPS, (12) Shri S. K. Sinha, IPS, (13) Shri D. G.
Vanzara, IPS. (viii) No follow up action was taken (by the Gujarat
Government/CM) on the reports sent by R.B. Sreekumar on
24.04.2002, 15.06.2002, 20.08.2002 and 28.08.2002·about
anti-minority stance of the Administration. Copies of these
reports are appended in second Affidavit dated 06.10.2004 of
R.B. Sreekumar to the Nanavati Commission. (ix) Indictment by the Hon'ble Supreme Court about injustice
done to minority community and riot victims in the
investigation of riot cases in respect of (1) Bilkis Bano case and
(2) Best Bakery case, as narrated in paras 13 and 14 of the
complaint dated 08.06.2006. (x) Partisan investigations were conducted betraying prejudice
against riot victims, as indicated by Rahul Sharma, then SP,
Bhavnagar District during his cross-examination before the
Nanavati Commission, as noted in Para 18 of the complaint
dated 08.06.2006. (xi) CM Shri Narendra Modi did not visit the riot affected areas
in the initial days, though he visited Godhra Railway Station
on 27.02.2002 itself. (xii) A press statement was made by Shri Narendra Modi that
the reaction against the Muslim community was the operation
of Newton’s law of action. (xiii) No direction was given by Shri Narendra Modi to Hindu
organizations against the observance of Bandh on 28.02.2002.
Bandhs had been declared illegal by Kerala High Court. (xiv) There was undue delay in requisition and deployment of
army, though anti-minority violence had broken out on 186 27.02.2002 afternoon itself in cities of Vadodara, Ahmedabad
etc. (xv) Pro-VHP advocates were appointed as Public Prosecutors
in riot cases as noted in Para 4 under the caption 'Present
Situation' in the complaint dated 08.06.2006, wherein
appointments of advocates Shri Chetan Shah (as District
Government Pleader), Shri V.P. Atre (as Special PP in the
Gulberg case), Shri Raghuvir Pandya (as Special PP in the Best
Bakery case), Shri Dilip Trivedi (as Special PP in the
Sardarpura case), Shri Rajendra Darji (as Special PP in the
Dipda Darwaja case), Shri Piyush Gandhi (PP in Panchmahal
District), have been questioned. (xvi) Officers at grass-root level were not transferred as per
State Intelligence Bureau’s recommendation till the arrival of
Shri K.P.S Gill as Advisor to CM, as indicated by Sreekumar in
his second affidavit dated 06.10.2004 to the Nanavati
Commission. (xvii) Failure to take action against the print media making
communally inciting reports though State Intelligence Bureau
and some field officers had recommended for action, as noted
in the first Affidavit dated 06.07.2002 of R. B. Sreekumar
during his cross-examination before the Nanavati-Shah
Commission on 31.08.2004. (xviii) State Home Department gave misleading reports about
normalcy in the State to Central Election commission for
ensuring early Assembly Elections. The assessment of the
Home Department was adjudged as false by the Election
Commission in its order dated 16-08-2002. As per the Register
for recording verbal instructions from higher formations kept
by ADGP (Shri R.B. Sreekumar), as noted in his third Affidavit,
he was directed by the Home Department officials to give
favourable reports about law and order for facilitating holding
of early elections. (xix) The State Home Secretary Shri G.C. Murmu was
presumably detailed for tutoring, cajoling and even
intimidating officials deposing before the Nanavati
Commission so that they do not tell the truth and harm the
interests of CM and ruling party, as narrated in third Affidavit
of Shri R.B. Sreekumar. (xx) Shri G.C. Murmu's exercise was for ensuring that officials
will not file affidavits relating to the second terms of reference
to the Nanavati Commission about the role of CM and other
Ministers in the riots as narrated in Para 52 of the complaint
dated 08.06.2006 wherein gross dereliction of duty has been
alleged in not filing Affidavits relating to second terms of
reference to the Commission on the part of 16 specifically
named officials including top ranking IAS/IPS officers. (xxi) No action was initiated against senior police officers by the
Home Department for their grave dereliction of duty in
supervision of investigation of serious offences as noted in
fourth Affidavit (Para 94) of Shri R.B. Sreekumar. (xxii) No departmental action was taken against Shri Jadeja,
the then Superintendent of Police, Dahod District for his
misconduct despite recommendation by CBI who investigated
the Bilkis Bano case as per the direction of Hon’ble Supreme
Court. (xxiii) The CD regarding telephone calls by BJP leaders and
police officers during riots was not probed into by the
Investigating Officers of the Naroda Patia and Gulberg Society
cases. The CD was produced by Rahul Sharma, SP, CBI before
the Nanavati Commission. (xxiv) Conducive situation was not created for rehabilitation of
riot victims, though a contrary claim is made by the State
Administration in its report to NHRC. Instead, the riot victims
were pressurized for compromising with the perpetrators of
violence, as a condition precedent for their safe return as
rehabilitation. (xxv) Police inaction facilitated riots as part of conspiracy, as
detailed in paras 13, 14, 61 and 62 of the complaint dated
08.06.2006. In Para 13 of the complaint, some of the 'glaring
examples of State sponsored events' are given. In para 61 of
the complaint, it is alleged that over two dozen survivors of the
Naroda Patiya massacre case have confirmed that they made
over a hundred distress calls to Shri P.C. Pande, then
Commissioner of Police but that his mobile was permanently
switched off. There was a similar callous response from most
of the DCPs and Addl. CPs (of Ahmedabad City) as also by Shri
Tuteja, the then Commissioner of Police, Baroda. In para 60 of
the complaint, telephone calls made from Gulberg Society to
Shri P.C. Pande and the DGP are alleged but no police action 188 despite presence of three mobile vans near the spot. It is also
 alleged in Para 61 of the complaint that police was aiding mobs
 who were attacking Muslims and that on 28th February, of the
 40 persons shot dead by police in Ahmedabad City, 36 were
 Muslims. In Para 62 of the complaint, it is alleged that police
 acted as mute spectators to acts of lawlessness, offences, were
 not investigated properly, real culprits were not arrested and
 no timely preventive action was taken etc.

 (xxvi) No minutes of the meetings held by CM and senior
 bureaucrats were maintained and instructions were mostly
 conveyed through phone which served the twin objective of (i)
 field officers carrying out the conspiracy of pogrom against the
 minorities and (2) avoidance of the subsequent monitoring of
 actions by jurisdictional officers. (xxvii) No action was taken against officers like K.
 Chakravarthi, then DGP, P.C. Pandey, then Commissioner of
 Police, Ahmedabad City, Ashok Narayan, then Additional Chief
 Secretary and a large number of senior functionaries in
 Government who filed incomplete, inaccurate, vague and
 inadequate affidavits to the Nanavati Commission, as narrated
 in Paras 54, 55, 56 of the complaint dated 08.06.2006. (xxviii) Slack review of post riot cases as ordered by the Hon’ble
 Supreme Court in 2004. This was achieved by entrusting this
 work to those senior officers who are willing to act according to
 political interests of BJP and CM, as narrated in Para 84 of the
 complaint dated 08.06.2006. (xxix) Nepotism practiced in postings, transfers; promotions
 etc., as narrated in para 85 of the complaint for facilitating the
 on-going subversion of the criminal justice system. (xxx) The fact that victims of riots and police firings were
 predominantly of the Muslim community, will establish that
 rioters, the administration, cohorts of the ruling party (BJP)
 were moving in collaboration for achieving the satanic
 objectives of CM. Statistics in this regard are given in the
 second Affidavit dated 06.10.2004 (Para 3/Appendix V) of
 Sreekumar to the Nanavati Commission.”

In addition, SIT took note of the following two allegations: - In compliance to the order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
 India on 15.03.2011, to conduct further investigation into the matter
 u/s 173 (8) Cr. PC, Shri Himanshu Shukla, DCP, Crime Branch
 carried out further investigation under the overall supervision of
 Chairman, SIT Shri R.K. Raghavan, Shri Y.C. Modi; Addl. DG &
 Member, SIT and Shri A.K. Malhotra, Member, SIT and another
 report was submitted to the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India on
 25.04.2011. The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India handed over the
 said report to the Ld. Amicus Curiae for his examination and
 independent opinion. The Ld. Amicus Curiae accordingly examined the SIT
 reports and also interacted with some of the witnesses including
 the police officers and submitted his report to the Hon'ble 191 Supreme Court of India on 25.07.2011. The Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India after careful consideration of the matter passed an
 order on 12.09.2011, directed the Chairman, SIT to forward a Final
 Report along with the entire material collected by the SIT to the
 Court which had taken cognisance of FIR of I CRNo. 67/2002 of
 Meghaninagar P.S., as required u/s 173(2) Cr.PC of the Court. It may be mentioned here that the Ld. Amicus Curiae has
 agreed with the various recommendations made by the SIT on
 the different issues inquired into/investigated by the SIT.
 However, the Ld. Amicus Curiae is of the view that at this prima
 facie stage offences u/s 153A(1)(a)&(b), 153B(1)(c), 166 and
 505(2) IPC are made out against Shri Narendra Modi regarding
 the statement made by him in the meeting on 27.02.2002. In
 this connection, as discussed, above SIT is of the view that the
 offences under the aforesaid sections of law are not made out
 against Shri Narendra Modi. In the light of the aforesaid facts, a closure report is being
 submitted for favour of perusal and orders. (Himanshu Shukla)
 DCP &I0, SIT
 Gandhinagar”
 (emphasis supplied)

Be it noted that even the learned Amicus Curiae had broadly agreed

with the recommendations made by the SIT in the final report, but

had opined that at prima facie stage offences under Sections

153A(1)(a) & (b), 153B(1)(c), 166 and 505(2) of the IPC have been

made out against the then Chief Minister. 21. This final report dated 8.2.2012 was taken exception to by the

appellant by filing protest petition before the Magistrate on

15.4.2013 raising diverse grounds including adverted to in

paragraph 6(c) above. 22. In dealing with the protest petition, the Magistrate in the facts

of the present case, could have and was obliged to examine the

challenge only in the context of the scope for investigation of

allegations referred to in the complaint dated 8.6.2006 including the

other materials collected during the investigation by the SIT

concerning the larger criminal conspiracy at the highest level,

resulting into mass violence across the State. This is reinforced from

the observation made by this Court in order dated 7.2.2013110,

wherein it has been clearly mentioned that the statements recorded

in the enquiry undertaken by the SIT pursuant to the directions of

this Court shall only be used in the proceedings relating to the

complaint dated 8.6.2006 and shall not be used for any other

purpose or in connection with any other case. This clarification also

applied to the criminal case being Crime report No. 67/2002

pertaining to the incident in Gulberg Society, trial whereof was at an

advanced stage (and soon disposed of on 26.12.2013). 23. As regards that trial, all information regarding the charge of

criminal conspiracy was collated during the investigation by SIT in 110 see para 5(y) above 193 terms of order dated 26.3.2008111 including from persons who

wanted to make statement before the SIT for giving versions of the

alleged crimes being investigated and to be tried in terms of the said

order. It has been further clarified in the order dated 7.2.2013112 by

this Court that the present order is confined to the facts and

circumstances of the complaint dated 8.6.2006 and shall not be

treated as a precedent, “in any other case”. These observations are

clear pointer to the sui generis approach of this Court in the present

case being fully aware that no FIR had been registered at the

instance of appellant on the basis of the complaint dated 8.6.2006; nor the trial in connection with CR No. 67/2002 concerning Gulberg

Society had been stayed pending investigation into the stated

complaint. Indisputably, the directions and clarifications given by

this Court from time to time in the present case have not been put

in issue nor any grievance had been set forth from any quarter at

any stage. Resultantly, the ordinary course to be adopted by the

Magistrate under the Code in other cases cannot be invoked in the

present case. In that sense, the enquiry by the Magistrate should 111 supra at Footnote Nos. 6 and 16 112 see para 5(y) above 194 also have confined itself to the limited aspect of allegations regarding

larger criminal conspiracy at the highest level, referred to in the

complaint dated 8.6.2006, resulting in causing of mass violence

across the State. 24. Coming back to the allegations regarding larger conspiracy at

the highest level, it is founded on the alleged utterances made by the

then Chief Minister in an official meeting while addressing the DGP,

the then Chief Secretary and other senior officials of the State to

allow to vent to the Hindu anger on the minority in the wake of

Godhra incident. This is in reference to the meeting held on

27.2.2002 evening in Gandhinagar, as testified in the affidavit of Mr.

R.B. Sreekumar. To the same end, the report by a private panel of

former Judges of this Court titled “Concerned Citizens Tribunal” has

been relied. This report refers to the testimony of late Mr. Haren

Pandya, former Minister given before the former Judges of this

Court. Additionally, the testimony of Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt, who claims

to have attended the meeting convened by the then Chief Minister

on 27.2.2002 has been relied. 25. This is the core basis on which the complaint of the appellant

proceeds to allege larger criminal conspiracy at the highest level. These allegations have been duly enquired into by the SIT. The SIT

considered the relevant materials while examining allegations (i) and (iv), inter alia, in its report113, to conclude that the claim of concerned

persons is false and figment of imagination. For that, the SIT had

recorded statements of all those officials who were present in the

said meeting. They stated in one voice that Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt was not

present in the review meeting convened under the Chairmanship of

the then Chief Minister. The SIT had also collected relevant

documentary evidence to establish the falsity of the claim of Mr.

Sanjiv Bhatt of being present in that meeting. 26. It is, thus, not a case of one version against the other, but of

false claim set up by Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt of being personally present in

the stated meeting. Therefore, the SIT after thorough investigation

has recorded its opinion that neither Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt nor Mr. Haren

Pandya was present in the stated meeting. Similarly, even Mr. R.B.

Sreekumar had no personal knowledge as he did not attend the said 113 pages 245 to 260 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 196 meeting. Besides, Mr. R.B. Sreekumar was a disgruntled officer. The relevant extract of the said final report114 reads thus:- 27. The SIT then analyzed the claim of Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt that he

was present in the meeting by referring to official records including

the call records of his mobile phone No. 9825049398 to conclude

that he had set up a false plea of being present in the stated meeting. The SIT has adverted to the materials collected during investigation

clearly reflecting on the conduct of Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt including his

false claim of being present in the stated meeting. The final report

has analyzed these aspects in detail115. 28. The final report then proceeds to advert to the interview given

by Mr. R.B. Sreekumar to a news channel on 22.4.2011 and the

details of the call records of Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt for the relevant period

and noted thus116: - “…..Shri R. B. Sreekumar formerly ADGP
 Intelligence, in his interview to the Star Hindi News 115 pages 249-254 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 116 pages 254-255 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 198 Channel at 12.35 hrs on 22.04.2011 has stated that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt, DCI (Security) had never informed him
about having attended a meeting at CM's residence on
27.02.2002. He has further stated that at that time of
filing an affidavit before Nanavati Shah Inquiry
Commission, he had asked all the officers of State IB to
provide him with the relevant information and
documents in respect of Godhra riots but Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt did not give him any information about the said
meeting. According to Shri Sreekumar, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
was handling security portfolio and communal portfolio was
being looked after by another officer. Shri Sreekumar has
also stated in the interview that it was a normal procedure
that if a junior officer had attended a meeting on behalf of
senior, he was required to submit a report to his superior and
that Shri G.C. Raiger, the then ADGP (Int.) should be asked
about it. As already stated above, Shri Raiger has denied
having received any information/report from Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt in this regard. The call detail records of the Govt. mobile phone
no. 9825049398 allotted to Shri Sanjiv Bhatt show that
on 27-02-2002, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt remained at
Ahmedabad till about 1120 hrs and returned to
Ahmedabad at 1925 hrs. He attended to various calls till
2040 hrs and thereafter, there is no record of any calls
made or received by him. Further, on 28-02-2002, he
remained at Ahmedabad till 1057 hrs and then returned
to Ahmedabad 2056 hrs. The claim of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
that he had attended a meeting at CM's residence on 28-
02-2002, at 1030 hrs is therefore proved to be false and
incorrect. CM's residence is at Gandhinagar, more than 25
KMs from Ahmedabad, and normally takes 30 to 45 minutes
to reach there. His further claim that he had seen Late Ashok
Bhatt and Shri I.K. Jadeja, the then Ministers in the DGPs
office at about 1100 hrs on 28-02-2002, is also belied from
the call detail records in as much as the location of the mobile
phone of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was at Prerna Tower, Vastrapur-
1, Ahmedabad, which happened to be at a distance of 1.5
Kms. approximately from his residence and Shri Bhatt could
not have reached Police Bhavan, Gandhingar before 1130 hrs
by any stretch of imagination. Further, both Shri K.
Chakravarthi, the then DGP and Shri G.C. Raiger, the then
Addl. DG (Int.) do not recollect having attended any meeting
at CM's residence at about 1030 hrs on 28-02-2002. Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home) has stated
that a meeting was held by the Chief Minister in the morning
of 28-02-2002, which was attended by acting Chief Secretary,
DGP Addl. DG (Int.) and the matter relating to the calling of
Army was also discussed, but no decision was taken and it
was decided to watch the situation. He has categorically
denied that Late Ashok Bhatt and Shri I.K. Jadeja, Ministers
had attended the said meeting. The claim of Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt that he had attended the said meeting at 1030 hrs
at CM's residence is proved to be false from the location
of his mobile phone, which was at Prerna Tower,
Vastrapur-I, Ahmedabad City at 10:57:43 hrs. Moreover,
his contention that the aforesaid two Ministers were
present in the said meeting is proved to be false from the
statement of Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home),
categorically stated that they were not present in the
said meeting. His subsequent conduct of getting his
statement corroborated by way of introduction of two
police personnel would also go to show that he is trying
to introduce himself into the meeting. As regards the
alleged utterance made by the Chief Minister in the meeting
called on 27-02-2002 night at his residence, it may be
mentioned here that Shri R.B. Sreekumar, the then Addl. DG
(Int.) had claimed that Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP
had informed him on 28-02-2002 that the Chief Minister had
allegedly said in the meeting that ''KOMI HULLADO MA TAME
POLICE BARABARI KAROCHO. TAME BE HINDU NE PAKDO
TO TAME BE MUSALMANO NE PAN PAKDO CHO. HA VE ME
NAHI CHALE. HINDUONO GUSSO UTTARWA DO." (In
communal riots police takes action against Hindus and
Muslims on one to one basis. This will not do now-allow
Hindus to give vent to their anger). Shri Chakravarthi has
denied that he held any such talks with Shri R.B.
Sreekumar. Even otherwise, the version of Shri R.B.
Sreekumar becomes hearsay and inadmissible in view of
denial of Shri K. Chakravarti……”
 (emphasis supplied) 200 29. Again, at pages 255-257117, the SIT has analyzed the materials

collected during investigation indicative of the falsity of claim set up

by Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt and noted thus: - The case u/s 302 , 323 , 506(1) , 114 of IPC has now
been committed to Sessions Court, Jamnagar and is
presently with the Fast Track Court Khambhalia for
framing of charges against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt and others. Significantly, Gujarat High Court awarded a
compensation of Rs.1,50,000/- to the victim who had died due
to police atrocities in the above case. Another criminal complaint was filed against Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt, while he was posted at SP, Banaskantha
District in 1996 by Shri Sumersingh Rajpurohit, an
Advocate practicing at Pali, Rajasthan and a criminal case
was registered against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt & others vide FIR
No.403/96 dtd. 18-11-1996 u/s 120B , 195 , 196 , 342 , 347 , 357 , 365 , 388 , 458 , 482 IPC and Sec. 58(1) & 58(2) of NDPS
Act. On completion of the investigation, the chargesheet
was filed against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt & others u/s 114 , 120B , 323 , 342 , 348 , 357 , 365 , 368 , 388 , 452 , 201 & 482 IPC and Sec. 9 , 17 , 18 , 29 , 58(1) & 58(2) r/w Sec. 37 of NDPS Act
in the court of Spl. Judge, NDPS Act, Jodhpur, Rajasthan.
The allegations in brief are that the complainant Advocate was
occupying a property as a tenant in Pali (Rajasthan), which was
owned by a lady, who happened to be a sister of Shri R.R. Jain, 203 a sitting Judge of Gujarat High Court. As per the said
criminal complaint Shri Sanjiv Bhatt and his subordinate
police officers allegedly planted 1 1/2 kg of Narcotic drug
in one room in a hotel at Palanpur, Gujarat, which was
shown as occupied by the said complainant, though he was
a Pali (Rajasthan) at that time. The said Advocate was
abducted at midnight on the instructions of Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt by his subordinate police officers of Gujarat police,
who went from Palanpur, Gujarat to Pali (Rajasthan) to
abduct him. The said Advocate was brought to Palanpur,
Gujarat and pressurized by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt and his
subordinate police officers to vacate the said property by
showing him arrested under NDPS offence. The said
Advocate, while in the custody of Gujarat Police and due
to police torture, vacated the property and physical
possession of the property was handed over to the sister of
Shri R.R. Jain, Judge of Gujarat High Court. Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt and his subordinate police officers, thereafter released
Shri Sumersingh Rajpurohit on 08-05-1996, by filing a report u/s 169 Cr.PC, in which it was mentioned that Shri
Sumersingh could not be identified in the Test Identification
Parade. Quashing Petitions were filed in this matter by the
accused persons in Rajasthan and Gujarat High Court, but the
same had been dismissed. The matter is now pending before
the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. Significantly, Gujarat Vigilance Commission
recommended twice on 15-07-2002 and 19-10-2006 that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt should be placed under suspension for his
professional misconducts, but the Govt. of Gujarat did not do
so. In the meantime, on the complaint of Shri Sidheshwar
Puri, Secretary, Bar Association, Pali (Rajasthan), National
Human Rights Commission taking a very serious view of this
false case under NDPS Act vide its order dated 15-09-2010
asked Govt. of Gujarat to pay a sum of Rs. one lakh as
monetary relief to Shri Sumersingh, Advocate, Pali. In view of the aforesaid position, it can be inferred
that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt is facing a lot of problems in service
matters and has got an axe to grind against the Govt. of
Gujarat and, therefore, his evidence is ill motivated and
cannot be relied upon……”
 (emphasis supplied) 204 Additionally, it may be apposite to reckon the adverse comments

noted by this Court118 against Mr. Sanjiv Rajendra Bhatt about his

general conduct while deciding writ petition filed by him for transfer

of investigation of a major crime registered against him at

Ahmedabad in 2011 being I-CR No. 149/2011. 30. While dealing with the testimony of late Mr. Haren Pandya

before the Concerned Citizens Tribunal and of Mr. R.B. Sreekumar,

the SIT opined thus119: - 31. As in the case of allegations (i) and (iv), the SIT then proceeded

to exhaustively deal with the materials collected during the

investigation allegation-wise including the two allegations [Nos. (xxxi) and (xxxii)] culled out by the SIT. The final report has then

dealt with the materials offender-wise120. While dealing with the

allegations against the then Chief Minister concerning the illegal

instructions given during the meeting on 27.2.2002 it has been

found thus121: - The CM also appealed to the public through media to
maintain peace. Further more, on 28.02.2002, that is
within less than 12 hours of the alleged meeting that took
place on the night of 27.02.2002, the CM has stated on the
floor of the Assembly, where the Opposition was also
present, that “the State Govt. has taken this heinous,
inhuman and organized violent act very seriously and is
committed to give exemplary punishment to the culprits
so that such incident never recur anywhere. The Chief
Minister repeated almost the similar facts in his press
conference held on 28.02.2002 afternoon at Circuit House,
Annexe, Ahmedabad. It would not be out of place to
mention here that in his appeal made to the public through
Door-darshan on 28.02.2002, chief Minister reiterated 211 that Gujarat will never tolerate any such incident and that
 guilty will be punished for their heinous crime. He also said
 that the culprits would be awarded such exemplary
 punishment so that no one would dare to involve himself
 in such an incident. This would go to show that at-least on
 five occasions, which are fully documented during
 27.02.2002 & 28.02.2002 Chief Minister addressed Media,
 Assembly and General Public and every where the genesis
 and intention was one and the same, i.e. to punish the
 culprits responsible for the Godhra incident in an
 exemplary manner, so that such incidents, did not recur
 ever again. In the light of aforesaid discussion, the
 interpretations made on alleged illegal instructions given
 by the Chief Minister by Shri R.B. Sreekumar and Shri
 Sanjiv Bhatt, appear to be without any basis. Further, even
 if such allegations are believed for the sake of argument, mere
 statement of alleged words in the four walls of a room does not
 constitute any offence……”
 (emphasis supplied)

Again, while dealing with the allegations levelled by Mr. R.B.

Sreekumar regarding illegal verbal instructions issued by the then

Chief Minister, the analysis of the SIT read thus122: - 32. Further analysis regarding the allegation of intimidation of

Mr. R.B. Sreekumar, Additional DGP, can be noted as follows123: - 33. In the context of the opinion of Mr. Raju Ramachandra, learned

Amicus Curiae noted after the submission of the report of the SIT

before this Court, the SIT undertook further investigation and

collected relevant materials, which have been referred to alongwith

the previous materials in the final report presented before the

concerned Court124. As regards comments of the learned Amicus

Curiae in reference to allegations (i) and (iv), the outcome of the

further investigation has been discussed and analyzed from pages

401 to 434125. It may be desirable to reproduce the relevant extract

of the final report dealing with each observation noted by the learned

Amicus Curiae, to understand and appreciate the extensive, objective

and impartial analysis undertaken by the SIT including the further

investigation done after the order of this Court dated 15.3.2011126. However, for the sake of convenience, we are appending the relevant

extract127 thereof and have highlighted some pertinent portions, to

this judgment to be regarded as part of this judgment128. After going

through the materials and the analysis undertaken by the SIT, 124 pages 398-467 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 125 pages 401-434 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 126 see para 5(t) above 127 pages 398-467 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 128 Annexure-1 (at pages 308-449 of this judgment) 217 which commended to the Magistrate as well as, the High Court, we

unreservedly hold that no other view is possible. 34. We find force in the argument of the respondent-State that the

testimony of Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt, Mr. Haren Pandya and also of Mr.

R.B. Sreekumar was only to sensationalize and politicize the matters

in issue, although, replete with falsehood. For, persons not privy to

the stated meeting, where utterances were allegedly made by the

then Chief Minister, falsely claimed themselves to be eye-witnesses

and after thorough investigation by the SIT, it has become clear that

their claim of being present in the meeting was itself false to their

knowledge. On such false claim, the structure of larger criminal

conspiracy at the highest level has been erected. The same stands

collapsed like a house of cards, aftermath thorough investigation by

the SIT. 35. We hasten to add that it is only because of the ultra-sensational

revelation projected by Mr. Sanjiv Bhatt and Mr. Haren Pandya, who

unabashedly claimed to be privy to the utterances made by the then

Chief Minister in an official meeting, the constitutional functionaries

and this Court was required to move into action taking serious note 218 of the same. But, after thorough investigation by the SIT, the falsity

of such claim has been fully exposed on the basis of credible

indisputable materials collated by the SIT during the investigation

in that regard. 36. Besides exposing the falsity of the claims of these two persons,

the SIT has been able to collate materials indicative of the amount

of hard work and planning of the concerned State functionaries in

their attempt to control the spontaneous evolving situation of mass

violence across the State of Gujarat, despite the handicap of

administration including the inadequate State police force required

to be replenished with central forces/Army, which were called

without loss of time and the repeated appeals made by the then Chief

Minister publicly to maintain peace. 37. Realizing the difficulty in pursuing the stated allegations [Nos. (i) and (iv)], the appellant has been now advised not to pursue the

same and in the written note [reproduced in paragraph 6(www)] filed

after the conclusion of hearing, confirmed that statement. The

learned counsel for the appellant did not contend before this Court

that a larger conspiracy emanated from the meeting of 27.2.2002; and that, therefore, had made no reference to this meeting in this

appeal during arguments at all. As aforesaid, we are of the

considered opinion that the enquiry to be made in this case is

essentially regarding the allegations of larger criminal conspiracy at

the highest level. That itself has, now, in a way, been abandoned by

the appellant in this appeal. It must follow that no other aspect

needs to be examined in this appeal as the finding of the Magistrate

and of the High Court in that regard, is being allowed to become

final. 38. It is in this context the learned counsel for the SIT had urged

that the appellant has been changing goalpost at every stage of the

proceedings before different Courts. It is seen that the allegation of

larger criminal conspiracy at the highest level spelt out in the

complaint and protest petition, was in reference to the sensational

revelation made by Mr. Sanjeev Bhatt and Mr. Haren Pandya, the

falsity whereof has been exposed by the SIT. As a result, now the

appellant is pursuing the same allegation by relying on so-called

undisputed extra-judicial confessions recorded in Tehelka tapes on

the specious plea that there can be no direct evidence regarding

larger conspiracy. Hence, in this appeal, the entire focus of the 220 appellant has been to highlight the so-called undisputed extra

judicial confessions recorded in Tehelka tapes to be read with the

inaction of the officials demonstrable from the undisputed official

documents to establish a larger conspiracy and which according to

the appellant, has not been enquired into by the SIT. The stated

undisputed evidence, according to the appellant, points to a larger

conspiracy, which appears to involve bureaucrats, politicians, public

prosecutors, VHP, RSS, Bajrang Dal and members of the State

political establishment. 39. This argument, we unhesitatingly opine, is nothing short of red

herring. In that, emphasis has been placed on evidence such as SIB

messages. What has been conveniently glossed over is that, to make

out a case of larger criminal conspiracy, it is essential to establish a

link indicative of meeting of minds of the concerned persons for

commission of the crime(s), committed during the relevant period

across the State including the heart-rending episode unfolded at

Godhra on 27.2.2002, in which large number of Kar-sevaks were

burnt alive in train bogies. No such link is forthcoming, much less

had been unraveled and established in any of the nine (9) cases

investigated by the same SIT under the directions of this Court. Accepting the argument of the appellant would require us to 221 question the wisdom of this Court and to hold that even the incident

at Godhra unfolded on 27.2.2002 was also the outcome of alleged

larger criminal conspiracy. Such a view would be preposterous. 40. In that, the Godhra incident has been fully enquired into by the

SIT to the satisfaction of this Court and even the trial had ended in

recording conviction against the concerned accused (belonging to

minority community). As to how the Godhra incident unfolded, has

been analyzed by the High Court in confirmation appeals in Godhra

train case about the acts of planning and commission by a group of

persons. Suffice it to observe that forwarding of messages by the

intelligence agencies including inaction or lack of effective measures

taken by the concerned officials per se does not imply criminal

conspiracy on the part of the State authorities. As stated earlier,

absent tangible material suggestive of a chain or any perceivable link

or connection with the unfolding of mass violence across the State,

it is unfathomable as to how the SIT could have still recommended

sending the alleged offenders for trial, much less would obligate the

concerned Court to take cognizance on such unfounded allegations. There is no material forthcoming to indicate that there was failure

on the part of intelligence to collect information and it was a

deliberate act on the part of the State Government authorities. Whereas, the allegation is that intelligence inputs were collected and

disseminated to concerned authorities, but not acted upon by the

concerned officials in right earnest. 41. Needless to underscore that inaction of the duty holders to take

those messages to its logical end, cannot be regarded as act of

criminal conspiracy unless there is material to provide link regarding

the meeting of minds and deliberate act to effectuate a plan to spread

mass violence across the State. The SIT had recorded statement of

Mr. Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home), Gujarat, dated

12.12.2009, who stated as follows: - Further on 22.02.2002 he will depart from Mehsana railway 223 station at 15.40 hours by Delhi-Ahmedabad Mail train for
 Ahmedabad and on 24.02.2002 they would leave Ahmedabad
 railway station by Sabarmati Express train 9165 Dn. at 20.25
 hours for Ayodhya. Also there was information that they will
 return on 26.02.2002 from Ayodhya at night and would reach
 Ahmedabad on 28.02.2002 morning. The group was supposed
 to carry Trishuls with them. Accordingly this message was
 passed on by SP Western Railway, Vadodara Gujarat to IG
 Communal Intelligence, UP, Lucknow vide fax message dated
 16.02.2002. However, no specific information had been
 received from the IG Communal Intelligence, UP about the
 return journey of Karsevaks or from anyone else……”

This version belies the claim of the appellant including the

unfounded allegation of criminal conspiracy at the highest level for

causing mass violence across the State. The materials gathered by

the SIT on the other hand, would suggest that despite the corrective

measures taken by the concerned officials in right earnest, the

situation evolved in unpredictable and sporadic manner and the

expanse of the activities were such that the State administration was

completely overrun. 42. At the cost of repetition, be it noted that the SIT had not found

any conspiracy for linking the separate incidents of mass violence

across the State during the investigation of nine (9) separate crimes

including the Godhra train incident, dealt with by the SIT under the

strict vigil and supervision of this Court and ably assisted by the

learned Amicus Curiae playing the role of devil’s advocate. Whereas,

the messages generated by SIB from time to time even before 224 27.2.2002, in fact would go to show that the concerned officials were

vigilant, but the situation as evolved post Godhra incident, was

unparalleled and had overrun the State administration. 43. In any case, inaction or failure of some officials of one section

of the State administration cannot be the basis to infer a pre- planned criminal conspiracy by the authorities of the State

Government or to term it as a State sponsored crime (violence)

against the minority community. The SIT had noted that inaction

and negligence of the erring officials has been taken note of at the

appropriate level including by initiating departmental action against

them. Such inaction or negligence cannot pass the muster of

hatching of a criminal conspiracy, for which the degree of

participation in the planning of commission of an offence of this

magnitude must come to the fore in some way. The SIT was not

there to enquire into the failures of the State administration, but the

remit given to it by this Court was to enquire into the allegations of

larger criminal conspiracy (at the highest level). 44. Conspiracy cannot be readily inferred merely on the basis of

the inaction or failure of the State administration. In the enquiry 225 undertaken by the SIT, it had been found that the developments

were in quick succession and had overrun the arrangements already

in place or for that matter, additional support by calling Army on

28.2.2002 itself besides the curfew imposed in the most disturbed

areas of the State. In light of such timely corrective measures taken

by the State Government in right earnest and repeated public

assurances given by the then Chief Minister that guilty will be

punished for their crime(s), and to maintain peace, it would be

beyond comprehension of any person of ordinary prudence to bear

suspicion about the meeting of minds of named offenders and

hatching of conspiracy by the State at the highest level, as alleged,

much less grave or strong suspicion as being the quintessence for

sending the accused for trial for an offence of criminal conspiracy. 45. The protagonists of quest for justice sitting in a comfortable

environment in their air-conditioned office may succeed in

connecting failures of the State administration at different levels

during such horrendous situation, little knowing or even referring to

the ground realities and the continual effort put in by the duty

holders in controlling the spontaneous evolving situation unfolding

aftermath mass violence across the State. The linking of such 226 failures is not enough to entertain a suspicion about hatching of

criminal conspiracy at the highest level, which requires a concerted

effort of all the persons concerned and more importantly, clear

evidence about meeting of the minds to accomplish such design,

much less of causing and precipitating mass violence across the

State. It is apposite to recall the observations in Reg vs. Hodge128A,

adverting to the address by Baron Alderson about the dexterity and

ability of ingenious mind to create theories, where he had said: - 46. For the same reason, it would not be open to the concerned

Court to take cognizance or to call upon the SIT to do further

investigation absent any tangible material. On the other hand, the

opinion recorded by the SIT while dealing with allegation No. (viii)129,

has dealt with the materials to conclude that it cannot be said that

no action had been taken on letters sent by Mr. R.B. Sreekumar. Similarly, while dealing with the allegation [No. (xiv)] regarding

undue delay in requisition and deployment of Army130, the SIT had

opined that there was genuine problem of deploying Army despite

sending of requisition on 28.2.2002 at 1300 hrs., which message

was sent by fax to the Union Defence Secretary, Ministry of Defence

at 1430 hrs. and the time taken in posting the Army after its arrival

due to logistical reasons. 47. Suffice it to observe that there is no tittle of material, much less

tangible material to support the plea of the appellant that the

Godhra incident unfolded on 27.2.2002 and the events which

followed, was a pre-planned event owing to the criminal conspiracy

hatched at the highest level in the State. It is well settled that 129 pages 280-283 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 130 pages 293-294 and 342-343 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 229 conspiracy requires an act (actus reus) and an accompanying mental

state (mens rea). The agreement constitutes the act and the

intention to achieve the unlawful objective of that agreement

constitutes the required mental state. The offence of conspiracy is

independent of other offences. It takes place when there is an

agreement to do or cause to be done an illegal act, or an act which

may not be illegal but by illegal means. The rationale of conspiracy

is that the required objective manifestations of dispositions of

criminality is provided by the act of agreement. To convict a person

of conspiracy, the prosecution must show that he agreed with others

that together they will accomplish the unlawful object of the

conspiracy131. As noted earlier, inaction in the response or even in

a given case of non-responsive administration, can be no basis to

infer hatching of criminal conspiracy by the authorities of the State

Government in absence of any clear evidence about the meeting of

minds; and that, failure to respond to the messages sent by SIB was

a concerted and deliberate act of omission or commission on the part

of the State and other functionaries, as alleged. The SIT had

recorded the statements of all concerned including the officials 131 See Firozuddin Basheeruddin (supra at Footnote No. 43), R. Venkatkrishnan (supra at Footnote No. 45), Shiv
Charan Bansal (supra at Footnote No. 46), and Nazir Khan (supra at Footnote No. 59) 230 before forming the opinion, as noted in the final report, to discard

the allegation under consideration. The Magistrate, as well as, the

High Court committed no error whatsoever in accepting the final

report presented by the SIT. 48. Thus understood, the argument pressed into service about the

existence of materials regarding build-up of communal mobilizations

and stockpiling of weapons, arms and ammunitions even before the

Godhra episode on 27.2.2002 being part of the larger criminal

conspiracy, is devoid of merits. This argument proceeded on an

erroneous assumption that the SIT had not investigated into this

crucial matter. The final report presented by the SIT before the

concerned Court has dealt with the relevant aspects while

considering allegation No. (viii)132, as also, under the heading

“Failure to Act on Suggestions From State Intelligence”, while

considering the allegations against the then Chief Minister133, in the

following words: - 49. Reverting to the allegation coined as “Allegations Carried by

Tehelka Magazine”, the final report deals with the same as

follows134:- 50. It is indisputable that the Tehelka tape was the brainchild of

Mr. Ashish Khaitan who was working with Tehelka. He had

conducted an enquiry of similar nature in the past, where the

workers of VHP had indulged in vandalism and manhandled some

of the students and a professor over a painting wherein objectionable 235 images of Hindu Deities were displayed. Mr. Ashish Khaitan, in

order to conduct a sting operation on this occasion, used a spy

camera and also prepared an identity card in assumed name of

Piyush Agarwal of Delhi University. He visited Baroda and

conducted sting operation on Mr. Dhimant Bhatt, Chief Auditor of

M.S. University, Baroda and office bearer of VHP. Thereafter, from

May to September, 2007, he recorded the audio/visual

conversations of 18 individuals pertaining to post-Godhra riots. The

telecast of the sting operation was published on 27.10.2007 in

television channels. After such publication, the NHRC directed CBI

to submit report vide order dated 5.3.2008. The CBI in the course

of enquiry, collected certain information and submitted report to the

NHRC, opining regarding authenticity of the recordings in the sting

operation and operation ‘Kalank’ delineating four points: - (iii) The camera characteristics of the video clips, their
 signals, frame coordinates and number of frames per second
 of the video footage and the time lag of audio track recorded 236 I the DVD exhibits P-V/D-I to P-V/D-15 are similar to the
 camera signals, frame co-coordinators, number of frames per
 second and the time lag of audio track recordings of cameras
 P-I/I and PII/I and hence the DVDs could have been recorded
 with the camera exhibit P-I/I and the camera exhibit P-II/I. (iv) A large number of video clips produced in the video CDs
 exhibits P-V/C-I to P-V/C-5 have been taken from the video
 footages of DVDs exhibits PV/D-I to P-V/D-15 on the CDs.
 However, in some of the clips of CDs, the voice (audio signals)
 in the recording of DVDs have not been produced.”

From this report, the technical veracity of the tape can be accepted

on the basis of CFSL report. However, as that would not be

sufficient, the SIT recorded the statements of 13 persons who were

available and had made revelations on Tehelka tape. As aforesaid,

only one of them has been named as offender (No. 22) in the

complaint filed by the appellant, namely, Babubhai alias Babu

Bajrangi. The material from sting operation has been submitted by

the SIT in three (3) out of nine (9) sets of cases assigned to SIT by

this Court, namely, in Gulberg Society, Naroda Patiya and Naroda

Gaam, where the persons making revelations have been named as

accused in the concerned case. As regards the evidence from the

stated sting operation produced by the SIT in CR No. 67/2002

concerning Gulberg Society, the trial Court in its judgment dated

26.12.2013 after analyzing the same, has held that a sting operation

can at best be a good corroborative material against the accused who 237 are stung by the operation, relying on the decision of this Court in

R.K. Anand135 and Rajat Prasad136. We do not wish to elaborate

further on the view taken by the trial Court in the stated case, as it

is pending challenge. Suffice it to mention that Mr. Babu Bajrangi

has already been chargesheeted and tried in connection with the

evidence concerning sting operation in which he was stung. The SIT

had noted that call details of Mr. Babu Bajrangi reveal that he was

in Ahmedabad from morning till 11:15 hrs. on 27.2.2008 and could

not have remained present at Godhra at the time of incident. 51. We find force in the argument of the respondents that although

the sting operation was not part of the complaint filed by the

appellant or the report of the learned Amicus Curiae, but the same

has been thoroughly investigated by the SIT including by recording

statement of 13 persons who were stung. At the end of the

investigation, the SIT found that other persons whose statements

were recorded by the SIT were not accused in any case and also no

corroborative evidence pertaining to any larger conspiracy was found

in their statements. Absent such corroborative material, the 135 supra at Footnote No. 85 136 supra at Footnote No. 85 238 evidence in the form of sting operation can be of no avail, much less

to take forward the allegation of larger criminal conspiracy at the

highest echelon of the administration. No evidence regarding

meeting of minds could be culled out from the statements of the

concerned persons, much less to link the offenders named in the

complaint of appellant. 52. The emphasis placed on purported extra-judicial confession of

18 persons as recorded in Tehelka tape, it needs to be understood

that the extra-judicial confession can at best be used against the

maker and not against others136A. Further, such statements need

corroboration to be used against other accused. The SIT

nevertheless recorded statement of 13 out of 18 persons, who had

made revelations, as recorded in Tehelka tape. Out of them, only

Mr. Babu Bajrangi Patel, Member, Bajrang Dal has been named as

an offender in the complaint submitted by appellant. The SIT in its

final report, has considered the relevant aspects while dealing with

offender No. 22 – Mr. Babu Bajrangi Patel, in the following words137: sevaks after the Godhra attack, is tenuous. During the course of

arguments, much effort was made by the appellant to impress upon

us that the SIT had not even bothered to record the statement of Mr.

Anil Patel, which the respondents have duly refuted by pointing out

from the record that there are three persons with the same name - Anil Patel and the SIT had recorded statement of all of them (Mr. Anil

Shankerbhai Patel - VHP worker; Anil Tribhovandass Patel – a

former Minister and named as one of the offenders in the complaint; and Anil M. Patel - BJP Doctor Cell) - and also analyzed the same in

the final report. The appellant had referred to the statements of Dr.

Anil M. Patel, as if he was concerned with the sting rather than

reading the statement of Mr. Anil Shankerbhai Patel. Similarly,

incorrect submission was made in reference to Mr. Arvind Pandya,

Advocate, who was one of the persons stung in operation ‘Kalank’. The appellant contended that he was appointed as a public

prosecutor in riot cases. As a matter of fact, Mr. Arvind H. Pandya,

was appointed as one of the defending Special Counsel for Gujarat

State in June, 2002 to defend the State Government before

Nanavati-Shah Commission of Enquiry and he later resigned in

October, 2008. 56. Be that as it may, much argument was made about the post- mortem of dead bodies in the open in Railway yard and also,

parading them from Godhra to Ahmedabad. According to the

appellant, the post-mortem was done in the open yard as part of

larger criminal conspiracy to obliterate the real cause of death of 243 Kar-sevaks at Godhra due to fire and then to transport the dead

bodies to Ahmedabad so as to parade them amidst shouting of

provocative slogans so as to arouse passions. This plea taken in the

protest petition is of pure conjectures and surmises. In that, the

deaths had been caused due to the violent act of group of persons

(who were later identified after investigation and faced trial ending

in conviction) for setting the train (Coach S6 of Sabarmati Express)

carrying Kar-sevaks on fire. The case concerning Godhra train

episode was also investigated by the SIT under the supervision of

this Court and that trial ended in conviction of 32 (thirty-two)

persons and the confirmation appeals for capital punishment have

also been disposed of by the High Court. In those proceedings, the

Courts have considered the issue concerning post-mortem of dead

bodies in the open in Railway yard. In other words, the issue under

consideration raised by the appellant has already passed the muster

of judicial scrutiny before the trial Court and the High Court. Accepting the argument of the appellant on this score would need

reinvestigation of the concluded case which must be eschewed and

cannot be countenanced. 57. The allegation [No. (ii)] regarding parading of dead bodies, has

been dealt with by the SIT with in the following words138: - On 28-02-2002, twelve (12) charred dead bodies of
Godhra carnage were brought to Ramol, Ahmedabad City
from Sola Civil Hospital. All these deceased persons
belonged to Ramol-Khokhra area. Shri M.K. Tandon, Jt.
CP, Sector-II instructed Shri R.J. Savani, DCP, Zone-V to
make efforts to ensure that the dead bodies were moved in
vehicle and not by foot, as the same would have esoalated
the tension. It may be mentioned here that ten (10) kar-
sevaks belonged to Ramol and two (2) kar-sevaks were from
Khokhra. Shri R.J. Savani succeeded in persuading the
relatives and the well wishers of the deceased to take each
body in a vehicle and the funeral procession was guarded
by the police up to Hatkeshwar cremation ground, about 4
kms away from Ramol-Khokhra. The funeral was over by
about 1400 hrs. and the crowd which had gathered on the
highway dispersed thereafter. It may thus be seen that the journey from Godhra
to Ahmedabad started around midnight and the dead
bodies reached Sola Civil Hospital sometime between
0330 to 0400 hrs and there was no one on the highway
at that point of time in the night to see them. Further,
though a letter had been addressed by Shri M.L. Nalvaya
in the name of Shri Jaydeep Patel of VHP and the dead
bodies were acknowledged by Shri Hasmukh T. Patel of
VHP, yet the dead bodies were escorted by the police
upto Sola Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad situated on the
outskirts of Ahmedabad City. At Sola Civil Hospital,
Shri Jaydeep Patel handed over the letter to the
hospital authorities and the local police as well as the
hospital authorities took charge of the dead bodies.
Subsequently, 35 dead bodies were handed to the legal
heirs/guardians of the deceased by the police after
completing the formalities and documentation. The 19
unidentified dead bodies were cremated quietly on the
same evening by the local administration and police
authorities at Gota cremation ground nearby with the
help of Sarpanch of Gota village after retaining their
DNA samples. Subsequently, 12 dead bodies could be
identified after conducting DNA tests, while the
remaining seven (7) remained unidentified. The above facts would go to establish that though
a letter had been addressed by Mamalatdar, Godhra to
Shri Jaydeep Patel of VHP, yet the dead bodies were
escorted by the police from Godhra to Ahmedabad,
where the same were taken charge of by the hospital
authorities, District Administrative and Police Officers
and handed over to the kith and kin of deceased persons
after taking proper receipt. Further, the unidentified
bodies were disposed of by the District Administrative
and police officers. The fact that 25 deceased persons
belonged to Ahmedabad, 2 to Mehsana, 1 to Rajkot and
2 to Sabarkantha places accessible via Ahmedabad and
the same were claimed by their legal heirs/guardians at
Ahmedabad justifies the decision to transport the dead
bodies from Godhra to Ahmedabad. Shri P.C. Pande, the
then CP, Ahmedabad City has stated that there had been
no parading of dead bodies inasmuch as the trucks carrying
the dead bodies under police escort reached Ahmedabad
City between 0330 hrs to 0400 hrs on 28-02-2002, which
means they had started from Godhra at least three hrs
earlier and as such there was no one to see them on the 249 highway at dead of the night, Shri Pande has also stated
 that in Ahmedabad City, the dead bodies were kept in Sola
 Civil Hospital situated on the outskirts of the City and that
 most of the dead bodies were handed over to their relations
 after proper documentation by 28-02-2002 morning. In view of the aforesaid discussions, the allegation
 that CM's decision to bring the dead bodies of those
 killed in Godhra carnage to Ahmedabad was with a view
 to parade them in the City is not established. Further,
 the allegation that the dead bodies were handed over to
 Shri Jaydeep Patel, is also not established, inasmuch as
 he only accompanied the dead bodies from Godhra to
 Ahmedabad, and that the custody of the dead bodies
 remained with the police escort and thereafter with the
 Sola Civil Hospital Authorities, Administrative and
 Police authorities. The allegation that the dead bodies
 were transported to Ahmedabad against the wishes of
 Smt. Jayanti Ravi is proved to be incorrect. Shri M.L.
 Nalvaya Mamalatdar had acted in an irresponsible
 manner by issuing a letter in the name Shri Jaydeep
 Patel in token of having handed over the dead bodies,
 which were case property, is being dealt with
 departmentally for this lapse……”
 (emphasis supplied)

While dealing with the allegation against the then Chief Minister in

this regard, the final report has analyzed the same in the following

words139: - There was no undue haste in carrying the bodies including

cremation thereof. The essential protocol was substantially followed

in that respect. This opinion recorded by the SIT in its final report

is consistent with the circumstances and materials gathered during

the investigation. Suffice it to note that the allegation under

consideration is unfounded and has been rightly discarded by the

SIT. 58. The appellant had also placed emphasis on the allegations [No. (v)] in the complaint about the Cabinet Ministers positioning

themselves in the City Police Control Room and issuing instructions,

to buttress their argument about State sponsored violence, as stated

in the affidavit filed by Mr. R.B. Sreekumar. This allegation has been

thoroughly enquired into by the SIT and analysis of the materials

can be discerned from pages 266 to 269140. The same reads thus: - Similarly, his claim of having seen Shri I.K. Jadeja, the
then Minister around 1100 hrs in DGP's office is also
falsified from the call detail recods of his mobile phone in
asmuch as he could not have reached DGP office,
Gandhinagar before 1130 hrs from his residence in
Memnagar, Ahmedabad. Shri I. K. Jadeja, the then Minister of Urban Housing,
Roads & Building and Capital projects has stated that on 28-
02-2002, Shri Gordhan Zadafia, the then MoS (Home) had
requested him to remain present in the DGP's office in Police
Bhavan, Gandhinagar to see that in case any information is
received in the Control Room about any rioting incident or
request is received for extra police force or any other issue of
importance then the same should be passed on the DGP, Home
Minister etc. In view of this request, he remained present in
the office of DGP Shri K. Chakravarthi for 3-4 hrs for next 3/4
days. However, he does not recollect as to what work was done
by him, but in case some information was received about some
incident from the party workers/common man, the same was
passed on to the DGP for necessary action. He has denied to
have contacted/instructed any of the police officers over
telephone installed in the office of the DGP to take action in a
particular manner. He has categorically stated that he did
not interfere with the work of the DGP or disturb the police
officers in the discharge of their official duties. He does
not remember to have used the telephone installed in
DGP's office. He has also stated that the DGP had not
shared any information with him and therefore, he had left
the Police Bhavan within few minutes on subsequent
occasions. Shri P. C. Pande, the then CP, Ahmedabad City has
stated that it was incorrect to say that Shri Ashok Bhatt, the
then Health Minister was stationed at Shahibaug Control
Room on 28-02-2002 to guide the police force in controlling the
Law & order situation. He has further stated that Shri George
Fernandes, the then Union Defence Minister visited
Ahmedabad on 0l-03-2002 and came to CP office to find out as
to whether Army had been deployed in the State or not. Shri
Fernandes reached CP's office around l000 or l030 hrs and
asked Shri Pande about the deployment of Army, to which
latter said that they could check up from the Control Room.
Both of them went to the Control Room downstairs. According
to Shri Pande, Shri Ashok Bhatt, who had been waiting for Shri
Fernandes in the circuit House, also came to CP's office to meet
Shri Fernandes and entered the Control Room Shri Pande has
also stated that Shri Fernandes and Shri Ashok Bhatt
remained in the Control Rooh1 for about ten minutes and then
left CP's office. According to Shri Pande, during this visit to the
Control Room, some of the press and media persons were also
present and as such it was somehow made to appear that Shri
Ashok Bhatt had come to monitor the Control Room. Finally,
Shri Pande has stated that Shri Ashok Bhatt was never
deputed to Shahibaug Police Control Room to guide or advise
the police. According to Shri Ashok Narayan he does not recall
instructions given by the Chief Minister, which were conveyed
by him either to the DGP or CP, Ahmedabad City to the effect
that Shri Ashok Bhatt and Shri I.K. Jadeja would sit in the
Ahmedabad City Police Control Room, Shahibaug and State
Control Room, Gandhinagar respectively and assist/help the
police. Late Ashok Bhatt had earlier stated that he might have
visited Ahmedabad City Control Room for about 5-10 minutes
on 28-02-2002. However, he has denied to have interfered with
the police work, as being a senior minister he had to maintain
his dignity and status. Again on 01-03-2002, he admitted to
have visited the Shahibaug Control Room for about 10 minutes
to meet Shri George Fernandes, who had gone to CP's office.
The call detail records of Govt. mobile phone no. 9825039877
of Late Ashok Bhatt show that he returned from Godhra to
Ahmedabad on 28-02-2002, at about 05:16:51 hrs. Thereafter,
the call details do not show its location till 15:50:43 hrs on 28-
02-2002, when the location was traced to Koba Circle, 257 Gandhinagar. During this period, it is presumed that he was
at Gandhinagar. His location on 28-02-2002 at 16:16:37 hrs
to 17:47:22 hrs was shown as Shahibaug Kedar Tower,
Ahmedabad City, which would conclusively prove that during
this period he attended CM's press conference at Circuit House
Annexe, Shahibaug, Ahmedabad City. Thereafter, again the
location was seen at 17:59:22 hrs at Koba Circle,
Gandhinagar, which shows that he was returning to
Gandhinagar. It may thus be seen that these call details would
conclusively go to established that Late Ashok Bhatt did not
visit Shahibaug Police Control Room on 28-02-2002. It would
not be out of place to mention here that the matter was more
than seven years old, when Late Ashok Bhatt and others were
questioned and as such the documentary evidence is to be
relied upon instead of depending upon the memory of the
different individuals, who have given different versions. Shri Nissar Mohammad Malik, the then PSI, who was on
duty in the Police Control Room, Ahmedabad City from 28-02-
2002 at 0800 hrs to 02-03-2002 at 0800 hrs, has stated that
Shri George Fernandes, the then Union Defence Minister and
Shri Harin Pathak, the then MoS for Defence, had come to
Police Control Room, Ahmedabad City at 1005 hrs. on 01-03-
2002, and left at 1025 hrs. He has confirmed that wireless
message in this regard to be under his signatures. He has
denied knowledge about the visit of Late Ashok Bhatt, the then
Health Minister to the Police Control Room either on 28-02-
2002 or 01-03-2002. Shri V.R. Patel, the then PSI has also denied the visit of
Late Ashok Bhatt, the then Health Minister to the Ahmedabad
City Police Control Room either on 28-02-2002 or 01-03-2002. Shri Parbatsinh A. Dholetar, the then PSI, Ahmedabad
City Police Control Room, who was on duty on 28-02-2002
from 0800 hrs to 1200 hrs and 2000 hrs to 2400 hrs, has
denied the visit of any Minister to the Police Control Room. Shri Maganbhai M. Limbachia the then PI, who was on
duty from 0800 hrs to 2000 hrs on 01-03-2002 in State Police
Control Room, Police Bhavan Gandhinagar, has denied the
visit of any Minister in the Control Room. It may thus be seen that Shri K. Chakravarthi has
categorically stated that Shri I.K. Jadeja did visit his
office, but did not go to the State Control Room and he 258 was made to sit in an empty chamber. Shri I.K. Jadeja
himself has confirmed that he shifted to an empty
chamber near DGP's chamber and that DGP did not share
any information with him. Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then
DGP has confirmed that Shri Jadeja did not interfere with
their work. Shri I. K. Jadeja has taken the plea that it is an
established practice in Gujarat State that in case of any
natural calamities or serious law & order situation the
Ministers of the various departments extend their help in
handling the crisis. No material is available to rebut his
plea. Late Ashok Bhatt had admitted earlier that he might have
visited Ahmedabad City Police Control Room on 28-02-2002
for a few minutes, but the call detail records of his' official
mobile phone show his location at Shahibaug Kedar Tower
between 16:16:37 and 17:47:22 on 28-02-2002, when he
attended CM's press conference. This was conclusively proved
that he did not visit the Police Control Room on 28-02-2002.
Moreover, the officials of Ahmedabad City Police Control Room
have denied that Late Ashok Bhatt ever visited the said Control
Room either on 28-02-2002 or 01-03-2002. In view of the
aforesaid position, it is established that Shri I.K, Jadeja
did visit DGP's office, but did not enter the State Control
Room or interfered with the working of the police and the
DGP also did not share any information with him. Further,
it could not be established that Late Ashok Bhatt visited
Ahmedabad City Police Control Room either on 28-02-
2002 or 01-03-2002. As per his own admission, he might
have visited the Control Room for a few minutes on 28-02-
2002 and/or 01-03-2002. Therefore, the allegation that
the two Ministers were positioned in the State Control
Room and Ahmedabad City Police Control Room by the
Chief Minister, is not fully established Significantly, Shri
I.K. Jadeja remained at State Police headquarters for 2/3 hrs
as per his own admission but did not interfere in the police
functioning. Late Ashok Bhatt's presence in the City Police
headquarters on the relevant day, if any, was very negligible
and it can not be termed of any material value. In the absence
of documentary/oral evidence of any directions by those
two Ministers to police officials, it can not be said at this
stage that they conspired in the perpetration of riots or
took any action for controlling the riots……”
 (emphasis supplied) 259 Again, while dealing with the allegations in the complaint against the

then Chief Minister in this regard, the final report has noted thus141: Shri Maganbhai M. Limbachia, the then Pl, who was on
duty from 0800 hrs. to 2000 hrs. on 01-03-2002 in State Police
Control Room, Police Bhavan Gandhinagar, has denied the
visit of any Minister in the Control Room. In view of the aforesaid position, is established that
Shri I. K. Jadeja did visit DGP's office, but did not go to the
State Control Room and he was made to sit in a vacant
chamber. Shri I. K. Jadeja himself has confirmed that he
was shifted to a vacant chamber near DGP'S chamber and,
that DGP did not Share any information with him Shri. K.
Chakravarthi, the then DGP has confirmed that Shri Jadeja
did not interfere with their work. Shri I.K. Jadeja has taken the plea that it is an
established practice in Gujarat State that in case of any
natural calamities or a serious law order situation, the
Ministers of the various departments extend their help in
handling the crisis. Late Ashok Bhatt had admitted earlier
that he might have visited Ahmedabad City Police Control
room on 28.02.2002 for a few minutes, but the call detail
records of his official mobile phone show his location at
Shahibaug Kedar Tower between 16:16:37 and 17:47:22 on
28.02.2002, when he attended CM’s press conference,
which would conclusively prove that he did not visit the
Police Control Room on 28.02.2002. Moreover, the
officials of Ahmedabad City Police Control Room have
denied that Late Ashok Bhatt ever visited the said Control
Room either on 28.02.2002 or 01.03.2002. It is, therefore,
established that Shri I.K. Jadeja did visit DGP’s office, but
did not enter the State Control Room or interfere with the
working of the police and the DGP also did not share any
information with him. Further, it could not be established
that late Ashok Bhatt visited Ahmedabad City Police
Control Room either on 28.02.2002 or 01.03.2002. As per
his own admission, he might have visited the control
Room for a few minutes on 28.02.2002 and/or 01.03.2002.
Significantly, Shri I.K. Jadeja remained at State Police
headquarters for 213 hours as per his own admission but
did not interfere in the police functioning. Late Ashok
Bhatt’s presence in the City Police headquarters on the
relevant day, if any, was very negligible and cannot be
termed of any material value. Shri Narendra Modi has totally denied that such a
 decision was taken by him. He has denied any personal
 knowledge about the visit of these two Ministers to the
 respective Control Rooms. It may thus be seen that both
 the Ministers did visit the respective Control Rooms, but
 there is no evidence to prove that they interfered with the
 law & order situation. Nor is there any evidence to indicate
 that they visited the two control rooms at the direct
 instance of Chief Minister. Since there is nothing to prove
 that these Ministers interfered or gave any direction in
 maintenance of law and order, no offence is made out.
 Further, in the absence of documentary/oral evidence of
 any directions by those two Ministers to police officials, it
 can not be said at this stage that they conspired in the
 perpetration of riots or took any action for controlling the
 riots……”
 (emphasis supplied) 59. The learned Amicus Curiae had recorded observations in regard

to this allegation [No. (v)], as follows: - Gulberg Society is not very far away
 from the Office of Commissioner of
 Police, Ahmedabad.”

These observations have been dealt with by the SIT at pages 434-

439142, being part of Annexure-1 to this judgment. The analysis 142 pages 434-439 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 266 done by the SIT after further investigation in respect of allegation

under consideration commended to the Magistrate, as well as, the

High Court. We find no reason to deviate from the said opinion or

the view taken in that regard. 60. It was then urged that the phone call records produced by Mr.

Rahul Sharma before the SIT on 2.7.2009 being CD containing tower

details of Ahmedabad and Godhra, the efficacy thereof has not been

reckoned in proper perspective. It would reveal the nexus between

the BJP leaders and police officers during riots. This aspect has not

been investigated by the SIT. The allegation No. (xxiii) culled out by

the SIT in this regard has been analyzed at pages 310-312143 and

again in reference to the observations made by the learned Amicus

Curiae, at page 456144. The SIT, after investigation, eventually

opined that the CDs collected by Mr. Rahul Sharma from M/s. Cellforce were copied by him on his personal computer kept at home

and operated multiple times; and was unable to produce the original

received from the original source (cell company). Further, when the

SIT wanted to verify the mobile phones of suspected/accused 143 pages 310-312 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 144 page 456 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 267 persons, the cell companies informed that the data was not

retained/available due to efflux of time. The SIT analyzed all the

aspects in respect of this allegation as follows145: - Shri Rahul Sharma was also informed by Shri P.C. Pande
 that there would be no formal written order in this regard.
 Accordingly, Shri Sharma reported to Shri Surolia on the
 same afternoon. As a matter of prudence, he decided to
 collect scientific evidence in support of the investigation that
 was undergoing. Shri Rahul Sharma has stated that he had
 information about the use of mobile phones in a big way in
 the alleged riots throughout the State including Ahmedabad
 City. Accordingly, he drafted à letter calling for data from two
 mobile phone service providers provider's ‘Cellforce’ (now
 Vodafone) and ‘AT&T’ (now Idea). The letters were issued
 under the signature of the then ACP, Crime Branch, Shri.S.S.
 Chudasama, who was also investigating the two serious
 cases of massacres at Naroda Patiya and Gulberg Society.
 According to Shri Rahul Sharma the information asked for,
 was the telephone directory of the two mobile phone
 companies, calling time called/calling number, location of
 the mobile phone when they were calling/receiving the calls,
 etc, for the period from 25.02.2002 to 04.03.2002 in respect
 of all mobile phones operating from Ahmedabad city area.
 Shri Rahul Sharma has further stated that the idea behind 145 pages 310-312 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 268 the collection of this data was, amongst others, to establish
the location of the alleged perpetrators of crime and their
accomplices at the time of commission of the offence.
Further, it was also required to prove the contact established
between the different accused persons as also with ‘erring’
policemen, bureaucrats and politicians. In response to the letter sent by Shri Chudasama, data
was sent in the correct format by ‘AT&T’ within a week on a
CDR. Shri Rahul Sharma has further stated that he had
personally gone to collect the said information from AT&T
from their office in Suman Towers in Gandhinagar. The data
provided by AT&T was in the “TEXT” format and had all the
relevant information that had been asked for. Shri Rahul
Sharma copied out the data on his computer kept at his
home and the CD was returned to Shri Chudasma. This
copying was required to be done, if the data from the two
mobile phone companies were to be analysed together.
Shri Rahul Sharma has further stated that the data from the
‘Celforce’ was sent quite late and by that time probably Shri
A. K. Surolia had been sent on deputation to BSF and Shri
P.P. Pandey taken over as the Joint CP, Crime Branch. As per
the recollection of Shri Rahul Sharma, the information
from the AT&T had come, while Shri Surolia was in-
charge of the Crime Branch, but the information from
‘Celforce’ had not come during Shri Surolia's tenure
According to Shri Rahul Sharma, the information from
the ‘Celforce’ came during Shri Pandey's tenure as the
Joint CP, Crime Branch, Ahmedabad City Police, but the
data was sent as an MS Access database. Since, Shri
Rahul Sharma had no knowledge of MS Access; he took
the assistance of PSI Shri K.J. Chandana, who was in the
computer section of Ahmedabad Police
Commissionerate. Shri Rahul Sharma has further stated
that Shri Chandana used to open the files before him in
the computer kept in his office. Initially, the data sent
was not as had been requested for and the correct data
could be obtained only after several attempts. On all these
occasions, it was Shri Chandana who usually went to the
office of the ‘Celforce’ to get the correct data. As per Rahul Sharma, the final CDR containing the
data was not received through Shri Chandana, but was
forwarded to him by Shri P.P. Pandey through a DO Letter
written in Gujarati. In the DO letter, he had mentioned that
the CDs had been prepared under his (Rahul Sharma's) 269 instructions and that he alone should analyse the data. Shri
Rahul Sharma has further stated that ‘Celforce’ had also
furnished data in respect of mobile phones operating from
Godhra though the same had not been called for. According
to Shri Rahul Sharma, after a few days of the receipt of this
letter, he was transferred out and posted as the
Commandant, SRPF, Group XI, Vav, District Surat. Shri
Rahul Sharma does not remember, whether the CDs sent
by ‘Celforce’ were two in number or one in number, but
given the volume of data received from Celforce, he
believes that there should have been two CDs. Shri Rahul
Sharma has further stated that he had no knowledge of
MS Access at that particular point of time, due to which
he could not analyse or interpret the contents of the CDs.
However, he has admitted to have copied the contents of
the CD(s) sent by ‘Celforce’ onto the hard disk of his
personal computer kept at home. Shri Rahul Sharma has further stated that after he
received his transfer orders in the first week of July, 2002, he
instructed, Shri Chandana, PSI to deliver the original CD(S)
personally to Shri P.P. Pandey. As per Shri Rahul. Sharma,
Shri Chandana, PSI visited the Jt. CP's office a couple of
times, but did not find Shri Pandey and, therefore, he came
back with the CD(s). During this period the CD(s) remained
in the possession of Shri Chandana. Shri Rahul Sharma has
also stated that on probably the second last day of his tenure
as the DCP, Control Room, he had called a Rider from Control
Room, took the CD(s) from Shri Chandana and directed the
‘Rider’ to hand over the CD(s) to Shri P.P. Pandey Further,
according to Shri Rahul Sharma, the ‘Rider’ handed over
the CD(s) to Shri Pandey and reported this fact to him.
Shri Rahul Sharma is not in a position to identify the
‘Rider’ after so many years. He has also stated that at
that particular time, his PA was on leave on account of
his son's marriage and, therefore, he could not the CD(s)
through a formal letter. Shri Rahul. Sharma has reiterated that he never
analysed the information contained in the CDs while
posted as DCP, control Room and learnt basic MS Access
only in 2004 after he joined the CBI on deputation. He
has also stated that it was a practice in Gujarat Police to keep
a copy of Case Diaries and other important documents of
cases that had been investigated/Supervised by an officer.
Consistent with this practice, he wanted to keep a copy of the 270 CD(s) data that had been copied onto his home computer's
hard disk. He also wanted to have the data on one CD for
compactness. He had, therefore, consulted Shri Chandana is
this regard and who in turn had advised him ‘zip’ the files, so
that they would be compressed. He did accordingly and
data from the CDs sent by ‘AT&T’ and ‘Celforce’ was
copied on single CD, which he retained. He burnt the
information on the CD Writer installed onto his computer
himself. Shri Rahul Sharma has also stated that he submitted
copies of the same CD(s) containing the zipped data to the
Nanavati-Shah Commission of Inquiry (two copies) on 30-10-
2004, at the time of his deposition/cross examination and to
the Banerjee Committee (one copy) on 22-11-2004 at the time
of his examination. The original CD first prepared by him was
handed over to the SIT constituted by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India. Immediately after these CD(s) were handed
over to Nanavati-Shah Commission of inquiry and also to the
Banerjee Committee, it was widely reported in the print as
well as electronic media that Shri Rahul Sharma has
produced copy of the CD(s) before the commission as well as
Committee. Shri Tarun Barot, the then Police Inspector, Crime
Branch Ahmedabad City and now ACP, Special Operation
Group, Ahmedabad has stated that he was entrusted with
the investigation of Naroda P.S. cr no. I98/02 relating to the
death of 11 Muslims killed in 2002 riots and that he had
investigated this case from 19-05-2002 to 30-05-2002 and
subsequently with effect from 30-11-2002 to 10-04-2008.
Shri Barot has further stated that during the course of
investigation, he had made an attempt to collect the call
detail records of mobile phones of suspected/accused
persons, but the Cell companies informed that the data was
not available. However, he did not approach Shri Rahul
Sharma to get the call details as he did not know that the
latter was in the possession of the call details of all the
numbers operating from Ahmedabad City during the riots
period and no one had told him about it. According to Shri
Barot, he did not know whether Shri Rahul Sharma, SP had
handed over a copy of the CDs to Nanavati-Shah Commission
of Inquiry or Banerjee Committee appointed by the Railways
to enquire into the Godhra incident. Shri Barot has also
stated that a news item had appeared in an English daily
regarding the mobile phone details of Maya Kodnani and 271 Jaydeep Patel and on the basis of the said news item, both of
them were summoned and interrogated about their location
on 28-02-2002 and thereafter. Both Mayaben Kodnani and
Jaydeep Patel informed that they were present at Sola Civil
Hospital. Shri Mayaben Kodnani confirmed that her mobile
phone remained in her possession, whereas Jaydeep Patel
claimed that his mobile was left in his car, which was taken
away by his driver. Shri Barot has also stated that efforts
were made to get their call details from the mobile service
providers, but the same were not provided and as such the
call details could not be obtained, analysed and cross
checked. The plea put forward by Shri Barot is not
convincing inasmuch as the news about the production
of the CDs containing call detail records of mobile phones
at Ahmedabad City by Shri Rahul Sharma before the
Commission had appeared in almost all the newspapers
and therefore it is difficult to believe that Shri Barot did
not come to know about it. Shri GL. Singhal, SP, ATS, who remained the IO of
Gulberg Society case and Naroda Patiya case, has stated that
he did not investigate into the call details records of the
mobile phones as well as landline details of the accused
persons or any other person connected with these cases. He
has admitted that he came to know about the production of
the CDs containing the call details of the various calls
made/received from the mobile phones Ahmedabad City by
Shri Rahul Sharma before the Nanavati-Shah Commission of
Inquiry and Banerjee Committee, but did not approach him
to get the copies of CDs containing the CDRs of mobile
phones. He has further admitted that he did not approach
the cell phone service providers to get the call detail records
of the cell phones operating from Ahmedabad City from 27-
02-2002 onwards. He has stated to have interrogated Dr.
Mayaben Kodnani, MLA and Jaydeep Patel, a VHP activist in
Naroda Patiya case about their locations on 28-02-2002, but
they had denied their presence on the spot at the time of
incident. He has also stated that he could not confront them
with their call details, as the same were not available with
him. This appears to be an intentional lapse on the part of Shri
Tarn Barot, the then PI and now ACP, SOG, Ahmedabad and
Shri G.L. Singhal, the then ACP, Crime Branch and now SP,
ATS, Ahmedabad and the same deserves to be dealt with 272 major penalty departmental proceedings against them.
 However, no criminal offence is made out against them……”
 (emphasis supplied)

In other words, the SIT due to lapse of time, was not in a position to

verify the authenticity of the CDs regarding telephone calls produced

by Mr. Rahul Sharma and in any case, the call history by itself would

not have been sufficient to suspect commission of any offence, much

less of hatching larger criminal conspiracy, which was required to

be investigated by the SIT. The opinion formed by the SIT on the

basis of available materials collected during investigation

commended to the Magistrate, as well as, the High Court. That view

needs no departure. 61. In other words, there is no merit in the argument of the

appellant that the SIT had failed to collect the call records of the

accused persons, not analyzed the available call records from CD

supplied by Mr. Rahul Sharma and failed to seize the phones of

persons involved. In that, the events had unfolded in the year 2002

and the SIT was constituted only in the year 2008 by this Court to

look into and enquire into the complaint of appellant, dated

8.6.2006. During the contemporary period (year 2002), two mobile

operators were providing services in the Gujarat State, namely, M/s. AT&T and M/s. Cellforce, who had the protocol of maintaining the

electronic call records for one year only146. This fact has been noted

in the statement of Mr. Viraf Fanibanda – Head Legal Advisor, Idea

Cellular and of Mr. Dhiren Jayantilal Laria – Legal department,

Vodafone, recorded by SIT on 28.11.2008. These statements,

though crucial, have not been adverted to by the appellant. Resultantly, it was not possible for the SIT to retrieve the call records

from these service providers after its appointment in the year 2008. It is, therefore, not a case of failure of the SIT to collect the call detail

records of various persons referred to in the details discernible from

the record submitted by Mr. Rahul Sharma. 62. Insofar as the CD record submitted by Mr. Rahul Sharma, as

aforesaid, he had failed to handover the case property to the

investigating officer (of Naroda police station), dealing with the

concerned case nor got it entered in the register of case property

(Muddamal) or informed the Court of jurisdiction about seizure of 146 ‘License Agreement for Provision of Unified Access Services’ provide as under: 63. Needless to underscore that every information coming to the

investigating agency must be regarded as relevant. However, the

investigating agency is expected to make enquiries regarding the

authenticity of such information and after doing so must collect

corroborative evidence in support thereof. In absence of

corroborative evidence, it would be merely a case of suspicion and

not pass the muster of grave suspicion, which is the pre-requisite

for sending the suspect for trial. This is the mandate in Section

173(2)(i)(d) of the Code, which postulates that the investigating

officer in his report must indicate whether any offence appears to

have been committed and if so, by whom. The opinion of the

investigating officer formed on the basis of materials collected during

the investigation/enquiry must be given due weightage. That would

only be the threshold, to facilitate the concerned Court to take

cognizance of the crime and then frame charge if it is of the opinion 276 that there is ground for presuming that the accused has committed

an offence triable under Chapter XIX of the Code. 64. The appellant had also alleged about police inaction which

facilitated riots as part of conspiracy giving specific instances in that

regard. The SIT has considered this allegation being allegation No.

(xxv)147, and upon analyzing the materials gathered during the

investigation, opined that the circumstances highlighted by the

appellant were not sufficient link to infer that the named persons

had hatched larger conspiracy to cause mass violence across the

State targeting the minority community. On closer scrutiny of the

analysis in this regard, the opinion of the SIT is a plausible opinion. For, the instances adverted to are essentially matters concerning the

acts of commission and omission at the ground level and not

indicative of any link to sustain the allegations of larger criminal

conspiracy. As noted earlier, the erring officials identified for their

acts of commission and omission at the ground/local level have been

proceeded with departmentally. Every act of commission and

omission would not result in hatching criminal conspiracy unless 147 pages 320-325 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 277 the acts have been done deliberately and there is meeting of minds

of all concerned. 65. Similarly, the allegation that victims of riots and police firings

was predominantly of the Muslim community, has been dealt with

as allegation No. (xxx)148, while noting that the incident referred to

unfolded on 28.2.2002, wherein 17 persons were killed in police

firing in Ahmedabad City, which included 11 Hindus and 6

belonging to minority community. Further, police firing was

required because of the evolving situation and out of compulsion to

control the situation. This is observed at page 329 as follows: - 66. Even the allegation regarding nepotism practiced in postings,

transfers, promotions etc. facilitating the ongoing subversion of the

criminal justice system has been rightly discarded as vague and

without any specific instances. That allegation is noted in paragraph

85 of the complaint dated 8.6.2006. 67. Be it noted that the SIT was constituted by this Court to

investigate into the allegations providing specific inputs/information

indicative of commission of offence of larger criminal conspiracy and

involvement of concerned person in executing such crime. The SIT

was not there to generally enquire into administrative matters of the

State, such as posting, transfers and promotions unless specific

input is set forth or was to be brought to the notice of the SIT. 68. Suffice it to note that absent clear and direct material indicative

of involvement of named person(s) in hatching criminal conspiracy

to cause mass violence across the State targeting minority

community during the relevant period, the attempt of the appellant,

if we may say so, is bordering on sewing of insignificant unconnected

circumstances and events regarding the failures and in some cases,

laxity in administration, which is being projected as an act of 279 concerted effort of all the State officials upto the highest level without

there being any tittle of material to show that there was meeting of

minds of all these persons at some level. 69. The appellant had gone to the extent of attributing motives in

relation to transfer of officers from field executive in the thick of riots

despite the objections of concerned DGP. In place of such able

officers, posting was done of officials who were willing to subvert the

system for political and electoral benefits. This allegation has been

duly enquired into by the SIT being allegation No. (vi) and dealt with

in the following words149: - This allegation relates to instances relating to
 punishment, ill-treatment etc. to the various police officers,
 who were transferred from the field executive posts in the thick
 of riots in 2002 so as to facilitate the placement of those, who 149 pages 269-271 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 280 were willing to subvert the system for political and electoral
benefits. Shri Rahul Sharma, who had been posted as SP,
Bhavnagar on 16-02-2002, has stated that on 27-02-2002, he
was on leave and after having come to know about the Godhra
train carnage, rushed to Bhavnagar and reached there in the
evening of 27-02-2002. He has further stated that on 01-03-
2002, permission was granted to Sadhu-Samaj by District
Administration to take out a procession and after the rally
started at 1710 hrs, the riot broke out in Bhavnagar City and
the mob had started gathering at different places in Bhavnagar
City. Further, one Kishor Bhatt, President of Shiv-Sena,
Bhavnagar Branch was arrested by the police and thereafter,
some reports of stone pelting, arson and rioting had come in
and curfew was imposed by the District Collector at his
request. He has also stated that Bhavnagar police had
succeeded in controlling the communal riots by the evening of
02-03-2002. Shri Rahul Sharma has stated that Shri Gordhan
Zadafia spoke to him over phone on 16-03-2002 and informed
him that he had done a good job in controlling the communal
riots, but the ratio of deaths, as a result of police firing in the
riots was not proper, i.e., more number of deaths of Hindus
than Muslims. Shri Rahul Sharma has also stated that on 23-
03-2002, a mosque was attacked by a riotous mob following
which 21 persons were arrested and that he was pressurised
by the local leaders to release them, to which he did not agree.
As a result, of he had difference of opinion with the Collector,
IGP, Junagadh Range and DGP. Shri Rahul Sharma was
transferred as DCP, Control Room, Ahmedabad City and he
was relieved from the charge of post of SP, Bhavnagar from 26-
03-2002. However, Shri Rahul Sharma has stated that he
would not be able to comment on the circumstances that led
to his transfer from Bhavnagar to Ahmedabad City as
transfer/posting is the prerogative of the Govt. Shri Vivek Srivastava has stated that he remained
posted as SP, Kutch during January, 2001 to March, 2002. He
has further stated that as a mark of protest against the Godhra
carnage, VHP had given a call for Gujarat Bandh and had
taken out a rally in Bhuj town on 28-02-2002, for which
adequate arrangements had been made, as a result of which
there was no untoward incident in the entire District and no
killings were reported from anywhere in the District. According
to Shri Vivek Srivastava, a few days after the Godhra incident,
a Muslim family had been assaulted with sharp edged weapons 281 at a Dargah out side Nakhatrana town by some unknown
miscreants, causing injury to two persons. Further, according
to Shri Vivek Srivastava, a case u/s 307 IPC was registered
and one Home-Guard Commandant with BJP leanings of
Kutch District had been arrested and charge sheeted on
completion of investigation. Shri Vivek Srivastava has also
stated that he got a few phone calls from the office of Home
Minister and Chief Minister asking him about the details of the
case and also as to whether there was adequate evidence
against all the accused to which he confirmed that sufficient
evidence was available against all the accused persons for
effecting their arrest. Shri Vivek Srivastava was transferred in
the last week of March, 2002 and posted as Deputy
Commissioner, Prohibition & Excise, Ahmedabad Zone.
However, Shri Vivek Srivastava was unwilling to comment
upon the reasons, as according to him, transfers were the
prerogative of the Govt. Shri M.D. Antani, who remained posted as SP, Bharuch
during 10-08-2000 to 26-03-2002, has stated that keeping in
view that Baruch was a communally sensitive District with
27% Muslim population, adequate police arrangements were
made pursuant to the Godhra carnage incident. According to
Shri Antani, from 28-02-2002 onwards, incidents were
reported only in respect of Bharuch town, Ankleshwar and Raj-
Pardi areas, whereas Palej, Amod, Kavi, Vedach, Nabipur,
Hansot and Bharuch Talukas were almost ventless. In all two
Muslims had died during the riots, whereas three Muslims
were killed in police firing on 19-03-2002. He was transferred
on 26-03-2002, as SP, Narmada and was relieved on the same
day. However, Shri Antani has stated that he can not comment
on the allegation of any motive for his transfer. Shri Satish Chandra Verma was posted as DIG, Border
Range with headquarters at Kutch-Bhuj during the period
2003-2005, which has three Districts including Patan. At that
time one Shri Shankar Chaudhary was the sitting MLA of BJP
from Radhanpur Assembly constituency. Shri Verma has
stated that a criminal case had been registered in Radhanpur
P.S. in the context of rioting between Hindu and Muslim
crowds after the Godhra carnage on 27-02-2002, in which two
Muslims had reportedly died due to police firing. However, it
was brought to his notice that the death of these two Muslims
by police firing was not substantiated by available evidence
and instead evidence was available against private individuals
including Shri Shankar Chaudhary, MLA for committing acts, 282 which led to the death of these persons. Shri S. C. Verma has
further stated that he had issued a formal order for the arrest
of Shri Shankar Chaudhary, MLA for murder and attempt to
murder. Shri Verma has also stated that sometime later, he
was transferred as Principal State Reserve Police Training
Centre, Chawky, Junagadh, However, Shri Verma has stated
that he can not say that this transfer was a consequence of
this aforesaid order. He has also stated that he can not call the
post of Principal of a training institution unimportant. Shri
Verma has further clarified that the scrutiny of the evidence by
him in the aforesaid criminal case was not a part of scrutiny of
2000 odd cases entrusted to the DGP by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India. Shri Verma has further stated that it was not
true that the post of Principal, SRRTC had been upgraded from
SP to DIG to post him there and that this post had been
encadred before his posting there as a DIG level post. Shri. R. B. Sreekumar has stated before the SIT that he
remained posted as Addl. DG (Int.) during 09-04-2002 to 18-
09-2002 He has further stated that during this period, he had
sent reports against Sangh-Pariwar supporters, about the
prejudice of the Govt officials against the Muslims and the
general subversion of the Criminal Justice System, to the Govt.
and DGP. He has further stated that in his first affidavit filed
before Nanavati-Shah Commission of inquiry, he had pointed
out that the State IB had informed the State Govt. about the
likely repercussions of Godhra incident and measures to be
initiated by the field officers, but on account of pressure from
the ruling party and some higher officers, no steps were taken
to control the emerging communal situation as detailed in
Gujarat police Manual and that this paved the way for the
violence from the Hindu mob against the Muslims. He had also
stated in his affidavit that the imposition of curfew was delayed
on 28-02-2002, till 1300 & 1400 hrs in Ahmedabad City to
facilitate the parading of dead bodies of Godhra victims. Shri
R. B. Sreekumar had also submitted his second affidavit on
06-10-2004, covering the additional terms of Nanavati-Shah
Commission, in which he had pointed out the subversion of
criminal justice system against the Muslims and specific
suggestions to remedy the situation, but the Govt. did not take
follow up action on the suggestions made by him in his
assessment reports dated 24-04-2002, 15-06-2002, 20-08-
2002 & 28-08-2002. Shri R. B. Sreekumar has further stated
that he had filed a third affidavit on 09-04-2005, presenting
the data on his harassment and victimization on account of his
non compliance of intimidator briefing by State Home 283 Department official, who had asked him to look after the
political interests of the Govt. Shri R. B. Sreekumar has also
stated that after a charge sheet was served upon him on 06-
09-2005, questioning his revelations before the Nanavati
Commission, he filed a fourth affidavit before the Nanavati
Commission on 27-10-2005. Shri R.B. Sreekumar has further
contended that he was superseded in promotion because of the
aforesaid acts and thus victimized by the Govt. He has also
stated that he had been exonerated of all nine charges served
upon him by the Central Administrative Tribunal, Ahmedabad
on 28-09-2007 and that the State Govt., sought a stay on the
operation of the CAT's order from Gujarat High Court, which
was rejected and that the Hon’ble High Court had ordered for
the expeditious release of regular pension to him and also
grant of promotion from the date of his supersession i.e. 23-
02-2005. The State Govt. had complied with the High Court
directive and issued orders on 02-05-2008. The statements of Shri Rahul Sharma, the then SP,
Bhavnagar, Shri Vivek Srivastava, the then SP, Kutch, Shri M.
D. Antani, the then SP, Bharuch and Shri S. C. Verma, the
then DIG, Border Range, Kutchch-Bhuj before the SIT would
go to show that though their transfers were immediately after
certain events in their jurisdiction, yet according to them
postings/transfers being the prerogative of the Govt., the same
can not be linked to certain events that took place immediately
before their transfers. Shri S. C. Verma has pointed out that
the post of Principal of a training institution could not be said
to be unimportant. He has further clarified that the scrutiny of
the allegation in a murder case of two Muslims was not a part
of scrutiny of 2000 odd cases entrusted to the DGP by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. Shri Verma has also clarified
that the post of Principal, SRPTC had been upgraded before his
posting there. The testimony of Shri R.B. Sreekumar is motivated
inasmuch as he had started collecting data/evidence during
posting as Addl. DG (Int.). Even subsequently, he clandestinely
recorded his conversation with Shri G.C. Murmu, Home
Secretary and Shri Arvind Pandya, Govt. Advocate before the
Commission with a view to level the allegation of pressure
tactics against him. He had also recorded his conversation with
Shri Dinesh Kapadia, an under Secretary, Budget and Co-
ordination in the Home Department to be utilized
subsequently, as evidence against the Govt. Surprisingly, he
kept all these things a well guarded secret till he was 284 superseded in promotion in February, 2005 and made it public
 in his third affidavit filed before the Commission on 09-04-
 2005. All these actions on the part of Shri R.B. Sreekumar
 therefore, appear to be motivated. In view of this, the credibility
 of his oral testimony has also been considerably reduced
 because the same stands uncorroborated. On account of the
 aforesaid factors, this allegation therefore, is not
 established……” 70. Concededly, the act of transfer/posting of officials has been

after the unfolding of mass violence across the State. It was

obviously an administrative matter to address the expediencies of

that situation. We fail to understand as to how this circumstance

can be reckoned as hatching of criminal conspiracy resulting into

mass scale violence across the State aftermath Godhra incident. Such conspiracy ought to have preceded the triggering of mass

violence. Be that as it may, the SIT has done everything possible to

look into each allegation noted in the complaint dated 8.6.2006 and

after collating relevant materials, have formed its opinion, not only

allegation-wise, but also offender-wise and witness-wise including to

deal with the observations noted by the learned Amicus Curiae. 71. To the same end, it was alleged [being allegation No. (xvi)] that

the officers at the grassroot level were not transferred as per SIB’s

recommendations till the arrival of Mr. K.P.S. Gill as Advisor to the

Chief Minister, as stated by Mr. R.B. Sreekumar in his second 285 affidavit dated 6.10.2004 submitted to the Nanavati-Shah

Commission. Even this allegation has been dealt with by the SIT in

the following words150: - 72. That takes us to the other allegation, more or less of the same

type being allegation No. (vii), namely, senior officers were awarded

with undue benefits for collaborating with the illegal plans of

CM/BJP during 2002 riots and afterwards. This has been found to

be a far-fetched and unfounded allegation by the SIT, after analyzing

the relevant materials on record including the statements of the

concerned officials151, dealing with the case of each officer as named

in paragraph 68 of the complaint. Even this opinion of the SIT needs

no second look also for the reason that such an act would not be a

link to connect the act of hatching of criminal conspiracy resulting

in mass violence across the State. 73. Argument was also advanced in reference to allegation No. (xv)

that pro-VHP Advocates were appointed as public prosecutors in

riots cases. This has been thoroughly examined by the SIT in the

following words152: - Enquiries revealed that the procedure for the
appointment of a Public Prosecutor in a town is that the
vacancy is notified by the collector & District Magistrate
in the local news papers. In response to the
advertisement a number of eligible candidates are
interviewed by a Board comprising Principal Sessions
Judge and District Magistrate. Thereafter, a panel of
three or four advocates selected by the Board is
forwarded to the Govt. for the appointment of the Public
Prosecutor. The Govt. exercises its own discretion, select
and notify one of the empanelled candidates as a public
Prosecutor for a period of three years. It may thus be seen
though the selection procedure is transparent yet the
Govt. has got the discretion to appoint a particular
lawyer out of the panel of 3-4 advocates forwarded to
them. Enquiries further revealed that Shri Chetan K. Shah
remained a Member of Vishwa Hindu Parishad during 1990
to 1995. However, at present he is neither a member of BJP
nor any of the Sangh Parivar organisations. It has further
come to light that on 12-07-1986, seven or nine members of
Muslim Parivar were allegedly burnt alive in Meghaninagar
area during the riots in 1986. A case in this regard was
registered in Shahibaug P.S. Shri Chetan K. Shah was not a
FIR named accused in this case, but was arraigned as an
accused during the course of investigation and charge sheet
filed against him. After the committal proceedings this case
was registered as terrorist case no. 1/87 before the Hon'ble
Special Court, Ahmedabad City. Shri Chetan K. Shah was
charged under TADA and other rioting offences. However, he
was not arrested and instead granted anticipatory bail and
subsequently regular bail also. On his request to the BAR
Association, Shri Chetan Shah was defended by Shri H.M.
Dhruv and Shri J.M. Panchal, Shri J.M. Panchal, Sr.
Advocates. After trial, Shri Chetan Shah was acquitted of all
the charges. Shri Chetan K. selected as a Public Prosecutor, as per
laid down appointed as such on 17-06-2003 for a period of
three years Before his appointment as PP, Shri Shah, had
defended some of the accused persons of the Gulberg Society
case Some of them had been released on bail during that
period and Shri Shah, had represented them. Further, as a
Public Prosecutor of City Sessions Court, he had 15
Additional Public Prosecutors, who used to work in different
courts as per duties allotted by Shri Chetan K. Shah. One
Shri V. P. Atre, Additional Public Prosecutor had been
appointed as Special PP to conduct case no 67/2002 of
Meghaninagar P.S. on 06-10-2003. It has further come to
light that this was a special assignment given to Shri Atre by
the Govt. of Gujarat directly and he was not junior or
subordinate to Shri Chetan K. Shah. In Gulberg Society case,
none of the accused persons were released on bail after Shri
V. P. Atre took over as Spl. PP. However, the accused persons
were released on bail by the Gujarat High court at different
stages. Shri Chetan K. Shah did not appear as a Public
Prosecutor in any of the riot cases pending in City Sessions
Court, Ahmedabad City. He could not have appeared as a
Public Prosecutor in Gulberg Society case as he had already
appeared in this case from the defence side. Shri Chetan K.
Shah has denied that he had been appointed as a Public
prosecutor because of his VHP background or being a
sympathizer of the ruling party or Sangh Parivar. The three
year term of Shri Chetan K. Shah had expired in June, 2006
and was not extended. Shri Chetan K. shah has denied
knowledge that Shri V. P. Atre had been appointed as a Spl.
PP after a protest had been lodged by the eyewitnesses of the
Gulberg Society case regarding his (Shri Shah's)
appointment. Both, Shri Chetan K. Shah and Shri Atre have
denied that the latter worked under the former. Shri H M. Dhruv, Sr. Advocate has corroborated the
version of Shri Chetan K. Shah and has confirmed to have
defended Shri Chetan K. Shah in a TADA case jointly with
Shri J.M. Panchal, Sr. Advocate, which ended in acquittal.
He has further stated that he had been appointed as Spl. PP
to conduct the cases arising out of Meghaninagar P.S. C R
No. 67/2002 and Naroda P. S. CR No. 100/2002 on 05-03-
2009 and Shri Amit Patel, Advocate was appointed to assist
him in the trial. However, Shri H. M. Dhruv did not appear in
any of these cases on any of the dates as new Public
Prosecutors were appointed by the Govt. of Gujarat on the
recommendations of SIT. Enquiries further revealed that Shri Raghuvir N.
Pandya had started his practice in District & Sessions Court,
Vadodara in the year 1986 on Civil and criminal side. In the
year 1997, he was appointed as Addl. PP in District & 291 Sessions Court. Further, during the period 2000-2002, he
worked as a incharge Public Prosecutor Vadodara District.
He was appointed as a District Govt. Pleader in District
Sessions Court, Vadodara in 2002 and worked there till
2008. He has denied any direct connection with BJP, Bajrang
Dal, RSS or any of the Sangh Parivar organisations, but has
admitted to have contested corporation elections from ward
no. 20, Majalpur as an independent candidate in the year
1995, when he was elected. He remained Corporator for a
period of six years till 2001. He applied for appointment as a
Notary in the year 2001 and was appointed as a Notary by
the Central Govt. He has also stated that the Best Bakery
incident was a serious and sensitive case in Vadodara, as an
aftermath of Godhra incident and that he had conducted the
prosecuted of this case as the Chief Public Prosecutor of
District & Sessions Court in a sincere and diligent manner.
According to Shri Pandya, it is incorrect to say that all
matters in the fast track Court Judge H. U. Mahida were
being handled by Shri Gupta Addl. PP. Shri Pandya has
explained that keeping in view the work load as well as the
availability of the prosecutors he used to divide the workload
between different Prosecutors including Shri Gupta, Addl.
Shri Pandya is of the view that being the Chief Public
Prosecutor of District & Sessions Court, his appointment and
notification in Best Bakery Case was not necessary. Shri
Raghuvir N. Pandya ceases to be a Public Prosecutor and
Learned Fast Track Court Judge Shri H. U. Mahida had
already retired. Shri Dilip R. Trivedi, Advocate from Mehsana has
stated to have started his practice, as an Advocate in
Mehsana Courts in the year 1977. He was appointed as Govt.
Advocate and Public Prosecutor in Mehsana in April, 2000
and remained there till the end of 2007. He is a member of
Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh since childhood. In 1992, he
joined VHP as worker and in 1999, he become the General
Secretary of VHP, Gujarat State. In 2006, he become the
President of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Gujarat State.
According to Shri Trivedi, Vishwa Hindu Parishad is a social
Hindu organisation with no political inclinations and had not
been banned. According to Shri Trivedi post Godhra carnage
there were riots in Mehsana District particularly in
Srdarpura, Tal- Vijapur and Dipda Darwaja, Visnagar and
the bail application of accused persons Involved in these
cases were dealt with by him and other Addl. PPs. He has
further stated that the bail application of seven accused
persons were argued by him in the Sessions Court, Mehsana
and the same were rejected. All these seven accused persons
had approached the Gujarat High Court and Subsequently
Supreme Court also, but their bail applications were rejected.
Some other accused persons arrested in this case had also 292 filed bail. Applications in the Court and were granted bail.
Further, as and when the accused persons were arrested in
Sardapura case, Tal-Vijapur, they were released on bail on
various conditions. The complainant had filed petitions in
Gujarat High Court vide Crl. Misc. Appls. No. 3590/02,
3591/02 & 4026/02 against the bail order, which were
dismissed by the High Court. Shri Trevedi has added that as
and when the accused persons filed their bail application the
same were argued in an honest and impartial manner
depending upon the evidence available for and against the
accused persons. He has also stated that considering the
arguments and the evidence available against and for the
accused persons, as per police investigation, the court had
either granted them bail or dismissed their bail applications
on merits and that the same was purely the discretion of the
court. In these cases the charge sheets were filed by the IO
in the concerned Court of the competent jurisdiction, but the
trail was not conducted by him. Shri Rajendra Darji, Advocate had denied any
connection with Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal or any
of the connected organisations. He has stated that he become
Addl. PP and Addl. Govt. Pleader in Mehsana District in April
2000 and reminded there till 2004. In 2005, he appeared for
the interview and was appointed as Addl. Govt. Pleader and
till 2007. In 2008, he was again appointed as Addl. Govt.
Pleader and he continues to be the Addl. PP. He has stated
that Dipada Darwaja case was charge sheeted in the first
Fast Track Court of Shri P. R. Patel and subsequently
transferred to the Court of Shri S. J. Seth and again
transferred to the Court of Shri I. B. Waghela, Initially, Shri
R. M. Jani was the Prosecutor in this case, who examined 11
witnesses. Thereafter, this case was conducted by Shri
Nirmalbhai S. Shah, Govt. Advocate, who examined 16
witnesses. Later on he had further stated that he had got
dismissed the bail application of the seven accused persons
from the Court. He has also stated to have dealt with this
case in an independent and impartial manner. Shri Piyush L. Gandhi, Advocate remained a RSS
activist since 1964, a worker of Akhil Bhartiya Vidharthi
Parishad between 1968 to 1972, District Pramukh of Janta-
Yuva Morcha between 1973 to 1980, Secretary of
Panchmahal District VHP between 1982 to 1990, Officiating
Pramukh of Panchmahal District VHP between 1990 to 2006
and Administrator of schools associated with Vidya Bharti
since 2006 till date. He had also been appointed as Director
of Godhra City CO-operative Bank in 1996 and treasurer of
National Blind Samiti in 1994. He remained Govt. Advocate
and Public Prosecutor of Panchmahal from 15-01-1996 to
01-09-2009. He has stated that in the riot cases post Godhra 293 carnage in the year 2002, Shri J. G. Pathak and Shri B. J.
 Trivedi advocates were appointed as Spl. PPs to conduct the
 trial of these cases. However, this appointment was cancelled
 with effect from 04-12-2003 and these cases were entrusted
 to him for trial. However, in some of the cases, Shri Rajendra
 Trivedi, Shri A. R. Dave and Shri D. P. Pathak were also
 appointed as Spl. PPs. Shri Gandhi has also stated that he
 had conducted the trial of Shabana-Suhana bang rape and
 murder case and that in this case, the complainants had filed
 Crl. Revision Apps. NO. 94/2004 & 142/2004 in Gujarat
 High Court in Gujarat High Court, in which some allegations
 had been levelled against him. He has further stated that the
 Gujarat High Court had dismissed these allegations on the
 first date of hearing on 12-10-2004. He has also stated that
 he had concluded the trial of this case and many of the
 accused persons were convicted, and awarded life
 imprisonment. He has also stated that appeals had been filed
 against the acquittal of some of the other accused persons in
 this case in the Gujarat High Court. On overall examination of these allegations, it
 appears that government had usual practice of
 appointment of government pleaders, the political
 affiliation of the advocates did weigh with the Govt. for
 the appointment of the Public Prosecutors. However, no
 specific allegation of showing favour by them to any of
 the accused persons involved in the riots either in grant
 of bail or during the trial has come to light……”
 (emphasis supplied)

We fail to understand as to how this act can be linked with the

allegation of hatching of criminal conspiracy for causing or

precipitating mass violence across the State. The appellant having

failed to provide sufficient material to raise serious suspicion in

respect of allegation of hatching of criminal conspiracy for the

intended mass violence, cannot be heard to make that deficiency by

raising allegation of the kind of appointments of public prosecutors

during the trial of the concerned cases. Be that as it may, the 294 allegation clearly overlooks the procedure regarding appointment of

a public prosecutor. It begins with notification by the Collector and

District Magistrate in the local newspaper and the eligible

candidates are interviewed by a Board comprising of Principal

Sessions Judge and District Magistrate. Such being the selection

process for appointment of public prosecutors, the allegation under

consideration has been rightly discarded by the SIT albeit after

thorough analysis of all aspects relevant in that regard. There is

nothing to indicate that any grievance was received by the SIT from

any quarter during the trial of nine cases assigned to it by this Court

for investigation, else there is no reason to doubt that SIT would

have taken corrective measures and made appropriate

recommendations for being given effect to by the concerned

authorities in terms of the order of this Court dated 1.5.2009152A. 74. Similarly, the allegation No. (xvii) about failure to take action

against the print media has been discarded by the SIT153 being

insufficient evidence to make out any criminal case against the

named offenders. It is a different matter that such publication must

152A supra at Footnote No. 18 153 pages 298-301 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 295 have been released, but no material is forthcoming that it has been

done at the behest of the named offenders or they prevented the local

police from taking action in that regard. Emphasis was also placed

by the appellant on the speeches delivered by Dr. Praveen Togadia,

named as offender No. 20 in his capacity as International General

Secretary, VHP. However, that piece of material cannot be the basis

to link it with the allegation of larger criminal conspiracy hatched at

the highest level for causing and precipitating mass violence across

the State against the minority community during the relevant period. Further, 232 crimes regarding hate speeches came to be registered

against the concerned persons across the State. The SIT in

connection with the complaint of appellant, was not expected to

enquire into utterances made by different persons constituting hate

speech during the surcharged situation of riots, as the remit of the

SIT was to enquire into the allegation of larger criminal conspiracy

at the highest level resulting in spreading of mass violence across

the State during the relevant time. 75. Even the allegation No. (xviii) that State Home Department gave

misleading reports about normalcy to the State Election

Commission, has been discarded by the SIT after analyzing the

relevant facts including the decision about the timing to conduct 296 elections was that of the Election Commission. That was taken by

the Election Commission of India despite not accepting the statistics

furnished by the State. 76. Reverting to the allegation regarding secret meeting [allegation

No. (xxxi) discussed at pages 329-332154] and meeting held by Mr.

Kalubhai Hirabhai Maliwad [allegation No. (xxxii) discussed at pages

332-337155], the SIT after thorough investigation and analyzing the

relevant materials, has opined that the same are figment of

imagination replete with inaccuracies and contradictions. 77. Our attention was drawn to the recommendations of the NHRC

and also the report of the private Tribunal, named as Concerned

Citizens Tribunal. The narrative recorded therein cannot be the sole

basis to proceed against the offenders. Whereas, dependent upon

the quality of materials gathered by the SIT during thorough

investigation done by it on all factual aspects including the ones

referred to by the NHRC and the private Tribunal, the SIT could form

its independent opinion. The SIT had precisely followed this route 154 pages 329-332 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 155 pages 332-337 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 297 before submitting the final report to the concerned Magistrate as per

the direction given by this Court. 78. The appellant had urged that the SIT had not investigated the

willful failure of the fire brigade in Ahmedabad to respond to the calls

made by the minority community being part of the criminal

conspiracy. This argument is unfounded and tenuous. The fire

services in Ahmedabad City come within the jurisdiction of

Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and not the State police or the

State civil administration. The Commissioner of Police of

.Ahmedabad City, who has been blamed by the appellant, had

nothing to do with the functioning of the fire brigade. No tangible

material is forthcoming to indicate that the Commissioner of Police

of Ahmedabad City had issued instructions to the officials of fire

services in Ahmedabad City under the control of the Ahmedabad

Municipal Corporation. Whereas, the materials collected by the SIT

would reveal that in the entire city of Ahmedabad, blockades were

created at various locations due to mass violence, making it difficult,

if not impossible, for movement of the vehicles such as fire brigade. In any case, this argument is one of inaction or failure of fire services

in the Ahmedabad City. That cannot be the basis to infer criminal 298 conspiracy, much less hatched at the highest level to cause mass

violence across the State. 79. The respondents had justly contended that the attempt of the

appellant was to keep in improvising their grievances and make new

allegations including to involve new offenders as being party to the

larger criminal conspiracy hatched at the highest level. Appellant in

filing the protest petition had the gumption to assert that the list of

persons was not exhaustive besides naming new persons as

offenders. In the name of protest petition (running into 514 pages),

appellant was also indirectly questioning the decisions rendered by

the Courts in other cases including sub judice matters, for reasons

best known to her. She was obviously doing so under dictation of

someone. In fact, the sizeable contents of the protest petition are

founded on the affidavits filed by those persons, whose version have

been found to be replete with falsehood. 80. Be that as it may, after going through the analysis done by the

SIT of the concerned allegations, we have no hesitation in accepting

such opinion that no case had been made out against the named 299 offenders, much less to indicate being party to the hatching of larger

criminal conspiracy to cause or precipitate mass violence across the

State against the minority community during the relevant period. 81. It is, therefore, not open to hold that the investigation by the

SIT in the present case has been deficient or infirm. Suffice it to

observe that every allegation found in the complaint (running into

67 pages) had been culled out by the SIT and articulated in the form

of thirty-two (32) broad allegations. The same had been duly

investigated from all angles before submitting the report to this

Court. The analysis and opinion of the SIT of the materials collected

during investigation allegation-wise, witness-wise as well as,

offender-wise are broadly agreed upon even by the learned Amicus

Curiae - except the observations made regarding some matters,

which observations have also been thoroughly enquired into by the

SIT by way of further investigation and duly analyzed for recording

its opinion156 (appended as Annexure-1 to this judgment), in the final

report presented to the concerned Court. The Magistrate, as well as,

the High Court have accepted the final report presented by the SIT. For, there is no material worth the name to even create a suspicion

(leave alone strong suspicion and a ground for presuming that the 156 pages 398-467 of original copy of the final report forming part of Convenience Compilation of respondent No. 2 300 named offenders had committed an offence of larger conspiracy),

indicative of the meeting of the minds of all concerned at some level; and in particular, the bureaucrats, politicians, public prosecutors,

VHP, RSS, Bajrang Dal or the members of the State political

establishment - for hatching a larger criminal conspiracy at the

highest level to cause and precipitate mass violence against the

minority community across the State during the relevant period. Such conclusion reached by the Magistrate and the High Court is

unexceptionable. 82. We may hasten to add that our understanding about the thrust

of the approach adopted by the SIT is not to form opinion because

of doubting the credibility of the witnesses as such, which indeed

would have been a matter for trial. However, the SIT went by the

logic of falsity of the information or material, including the same

remaining uncorroborated despite the best endeavour made by the

SIT. It is certainly not a case of failure of SIT in doing proper

investigation into the allegations of larger conspiracy as such. The

SIT was obviously conscious that it would not be a case of strong

suspicion about the commission of offence of larger criminal

conspiracy - absent credible, verifiable and corroborated

information/material. It is for that reason it had to record its 301 unambiguous opinion after duly analyzing all angles and the

information/material collated during the enquiry/investigation - that there was no case for proceeding against the named offender(s)

as the offences under the relevant sections of law were not made out; and, therefore, to urge upon the Magistrate to accept the final

report/closure report. This is not to say that the SIT and the Courts

have doubted the occurrence of instances registered as crimes

during the relevant period, nor have put a seal of approval to such

heart-rending instances. Whereas, every registered crime in that

regard (including the unfortunate gruesome killing of husband of

appellant), has been duly investigated by the Court appointed SIT

and accused person(s) involved in commission of such crimes have

been duly identified and had to face the trial before the jurisdictional

Courts. 83. Relying on the decision in Nirmal Singh Kahlon157, it was

urged that if it is open to file second FIR in connection with the

alleged offence, the self-imposed remit of the SIT can be no

impediment for proceeding against the concerned persons on the

basis of further information/material referred to in the protest 157 supra at Footnote No. 44 302 petition or which comes to the notice of the appellant in due course. The argument, though attractive at the first blush, has been stated

only to be rejected. In that, for the view that we have taken hitherto

that the SIT, as well as, the Courts including the appellant is bound

by the sui generis directions issued by this Court from time to time,

the matter could be examined only in that context and not in

reference to the approach to be adopted in general cases. Furthermore, the SIT has observed that the so-called additional

information/material would not improve the case of the appellant,

as taking the same as it is, there is no indication therein about the

perceivable link to show hatching of criminal conspiracy at the

highest level for causing and precipitating mass violence across the

State against the minority community during the relevant period. 84. The SIT was entrusted with investigation of nine (9) sets of

crimes including the occurrences at the Gulberg Society. Status

reports regarding the progress of investigation was submitted to this

Court in all those cases and after satisfaction of this Court about the

completion of proper investigation done by the SIT, report(s) under

Section 173 of the Code came to be filed in the concerned cases and

the identified persons involved in commission of crime(s) were also 303 sent for trial. Moreover, the trials of the concerned cases had

progressed under continuous supervision of this Court, which have

ended in conviction of accused in the concerned cases, as indicated

in the Chart submitted alongwith Final Note Part-1 filed on behalf of

respondent No. 2, marked as Annexure-2157A and deemed to be part

of this judgment. 85. Despite the humungous task undertaken by the members of

the SIT with sincerity, objectivity and dispassionately including to

the satisfaction of this Court in all these cases, the argument of the

appellant was bordering on undermining the integrity and sincerity

of the members of the SIT. Needless to underscore that the SIT came

to be constituted by this Court of experienced senior officials with

proven ability of investigating complex offences. Therefore, we find

such submission as not only far-fetched and an attempt to undo and

undermine the industry of the SIT in having thoroughly investigated

all the nine (9) sets of cases assigned to it by this Court, but also in

the nature of questioning the wisdom of this Court. Hence, the

157A
 Annexure-2 (at pages 450-452 of this judgment) 304 assail of the appellant needs to be stated to be rejected. While

observing sobriety, we say no more. 86. We do not wish to dilate on the other reported decisions, for the

view we have taken and more so, we have followed the settled legal

principles in answering the matters in issue. 87. We need to clarify that our analysis regarding sting operation

or the Tehelka Tape and its transcript, is not a final determination

regarding the evidentiary value thereof. We say so because the same

will have to be dealt with in appropriate proceedings, in particular,

other cognate criminal cases investigated by the Supreme Court

appointed SIT including those pending before the High Court and

this Court. 88. While parting, we express our appreciation for the indefatigable

work done by the team of SIT officials in the challenging

circumstances they had to face and yet, we find that they have come

out with flying colours unscathed. At the end of the day, it appears

to us that a coalesced effort of the disgruntled officials of the State

of Gujarat alongwith others was to create sensation by making

revelations which were false to their own knowledge. The falsity of

their claims had been fully exposed by the SIT after a thorough

investigation. Intriguingly, the present proceedings have been 305 pursued for last 16 years (from submission of complaint dated

8.6.2006 running into 67 pages and then by filing protest petition

dated 15.4.2013 running into 514 pages) including with the audacity

to question the integrity of every functionary involved in the process

of exposing the devious stratagem adopted (to borrow the

submission of learned counsel for the SIT), to keep the pot boiling,

obviously, for ulterior design. As a matter of fact, all those involved

in such abuse of process, need to be in the dock and proceeded with

in accordance with law. 89. To sum up, we are of the considered opinion that no fault can

be found with the approach of the SIT in submitting final report

dated 8.2.2012, which is backed by firm logic, expositing analytical

mind and dealing with all aspects objectively for discarding the

allegations regarding larger criminal conspiracy (at the highest level)

for causing and precipitating mass violence across the State against

the minority community during the relevant period. As

aforementioned, the SIT has gone by the logic of falsity of the

information or material and including the same remaining

uncorroborated. In that, the materials collected during the

investigation do not give rise to strong or grave suspicion regarding

hatching of larger criminal conspiracy at the highest level for causing 306 mass violence across the State against the minority community and

more so, indicating involvement of the named offenders and their

meeting of minds at some level in that regard. The SIT had formed

its opinion after considering all the materials collated during the

investigation. The question of further investigation would have

arisen only on the availability of new material/information in

connection with the allegation of larger conspiracy at the highest

level, which is not forthcoming in this case. Hence, the final report,

as submitted by the SIT, ought to be accepted as it is, without doing

anything more. 90. The Magistrate, upon presentation of final report could have

exercised different options – as predicated in Abhinandan Jha158,

Bhagwant Singh159, Popular Muthiah160 and Vishnu Kumar

Tiwari161. However, the Magistrate in the present case, after

applying his mind independently to the final report dated 8.2.2012

and the materials appended thereto, chose to accept the same as it

is, without issuing any other direction to the SIT. 91. After cogitating over the matter, we uphold the decision of the

Magistrate in accepting the stated final report dated 8.2.2012

submitted by the SIT, as it is and rejecting the protest petition filed

by the appellant. We do not countenance the submission of the

appellant regarding infraction of rule of law in the matter of

investigation and the approach of the Magistrate and the High Court

in dealing with the final report. 92. Accordingly, we hold that this appeal is devoid of merits and

resultantly, deserves to be dismissed in the aforementioned terms. We order accordingly. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of

accordingly. ..……………………………J.
 (A.M. Khanwilkar)

 ………………………………J.
 (Dinesh Maheshwari)

 ………………………………J.
 (C.T. Ravikumar)

New Delhi; June 24, 2022. ANNEXURE-1162 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 …….. Page: 398

 ❖ Opinion of Shri Raju Ramchandran, Amicus Curiae:- The report shall be submitted by 25th April, 2011. List the case on 27th
 April, 2011 at 3:00 p.m.”
 Pursuant to the aforesaid order, SIT conducted further
investigation u/s 173(8) Cr.P.C. in Gulberg Society Case
(Meghaninagar P. S. 1 CR No.67/02) as suggested by Ld. Amicus
Curiae in his observations submitted in the note dated 20.01.2011
to the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. The recommendations made in Chart ‘A’ by the Ld. Amicus Curiae
vis-à-vis further investigation conducted is discussed below:- Page: 401

 possible to save loss of
 lives. If the stand of the
 CM that these 2
 Ministers were
 positioned so as to
 effectively control the
 law and order situation
 is correct, then there
 would have been a far
 quicker action to
 control the riots in
 Gulberg Society and
 Naroda Patiya atleast. 11. No tangible action
 seems to have been
 taken by the police
 high ups in the Police
 Department, namely
 Commissioner of
 Police, to control the
 riots at Gulberg
 Society. Gulberg
 Society is not very far
 away from the Office of
 Commissioner of
 Police, Ahmedabad. XI. The allegation The SIT has come to the 12. This is one of the
is that Shri conclusion that the circumstances which
Narendra Modi action of Chief Minister indicate that the
did not visit the appeared to be Hon’ble Chief Minister
riot affected areas discriminatory. had not taken enough
of Ahmedabad steps to ensure that
immediately, riots in Ahmedabad
though he visited City were immediately
Godhra on the 315 day of the controlled by his direct
incident. intervention. XII. It is alleged The SIT has come to the 13. The observation of
that on 01-03- conclusion that the Shri Modi in a
2002, Shri reaction of the Chief television interview on
Narendra Modi Minister to violence at 01-03-2002 clearly
said in a television Gulberg Society and indicates that there
interview that the Naroda Patiya was not was an attempt to
reaction of the serious. However, the justify the violence
Hindus was due SIT has concluded this against the minority
to the action by would not be sufficient community. This
the Muslims, enough to make out a indicates a certain
which seems to case against Shri Modi. approach. The
justify the riot. statement made by
 Shri Modi cannot be
 seen in isolation. It has
 to be seen in
 conjunction with other
 facts mentioned
 hereinabove which
 provides sufficient
 justification for a
 detailed investigation
 in the matter. Observations made by Ld. Amicus Curiae: However, Shri Ashok Narayan had prepared a note on the basis of
information provided by DGP for CM and MoS (Home) to make a
statement in the Assembly as the question relating to the Godhra
incident was likely to be raised in the Assembly which was in Session.
The Chief Minister had given directions that the steps should be
taken not to delay the medical help to surviving passengers and also
to impose curfew to avoid any untoward incident. Godhra being a
communally sensitive place. The Chief Minister had also instructed
that the senior officers and the extra force, if required, must reach
Godhra without any delay. Around 1200 hrs, Chief Minister attended the Assembly session and
a call attention motion relating to the Godhra incident tabled by Shri
Punjabhai Vansh, MLA came up for discussion at 1300 hrs, but the
Hon'ble Member was not present in the House. Dr. Mayaben Kodnani,
MLA from Naroda spoke on the said issue. Shri Gordhan Zadafia, the
then MoS (Home) made a statement in the House based on the aforesaid
note prepared by Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home). During zero
hour, Shri Narendra Modi made a statement that he had discussed
the matter with the then Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpaee and
announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs. 2,00,000/- each to the next
of kin of those killed in the Godhra incident and also ordered a High-
Level Inquiry into the incident. All these facts were mentioned in
the Assembly proceedings, as well as in the press release issued by
the Govt. of Gujarat on 27-02-2002. Shri Gordhan Zadafia, the then MoS (Home) left for Godhra by road
around 1400 hrs. and reached there at about 1630 hrs, Shri Ashok Bhatt,
the then Health Minister had already reached Godhra around 1200 hrs.
It may be mentioned here that 27-02-2002 was a budget day in the
Assembly and after the completion of the budget speech by Shri Nitinbhai
Patel, the then Finance Minister, the Assembly proceedings were over at
about 1500 hrs. Shri Narendra Modi left for Ahmedabad airport around
1530 hrs for his onward journey to Vadodara / Godhra. Shri Narendra
Modi reached Ahmedabad airport at 1600 hrs and left for Vadodara
by Govt. aircraft. The Chief Minister reached Vadodara at about 1630
hrs. and then proceeded to Godhra by helicopter immediately, where
he reached around 1645 hrs. He was accompanied by Shri Anil
Mukim, the then Addl. PS to CM and Shri Jagdish Thakker, PRO to
CM. According to the press release issued by the Govt. of Gujarat on
27-02-2002, CM visited the scene of occurrence at Godhra Railway
Station and then went to Civil Hospital and saw the injured admitted
there. Thereafter, he went to Collectorate and held meeting with the
Ministers present there namely Shri Ashok Bhatt, Shri Gordhan
Zadafia, Shri Bhupendra Lakhawala, Shri Prabhatsinh Chauhan (all
Ministers in the State Govt.) Shri Bhupendrasingh Solanki, the then
Member, Lok-Sabha from Godhra, Collector & District Magistrate,
Godhra, Police Officers and Railway Officers. The Chief Minister had
also met the press briefly thereafter. As per media reports Shri
Narendra Modi said the Govt. would ensure the maintenance of peace
in the State and the Govt. would not be lacking in discharge of its
duty. He also said that tragedy was unparallel in the history of
Gujarat and assured the people that culprits would be punished. At
no point of time, Shri Jaydeep Patel, VHP leader, who was at Godhra
on that day, had met him. The Chief Minister left Godhra by road
around 1945 hrs (after the sunset) and reached Vadodara airport at
about 2130 hrs. Shri Narendra Modi left for Ahmedabad by Govt.
aircraft at 2130 hrs and reached his official residence at Gandhinagar
at about 2230 hrs.
 Investigation has further revealed that a law & order meeting
was held by Chief Minister at his residence around 2300 hrs, which
was attended by Smt. Swarna Kanta Varma, the then acting Chief
Secretary, Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home) Dr. P.K. Mishra,
the then Principal Secretary to CM, Shri Anil Mukim the then Addl.
PS to CM, Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP, Shri P.C. Pande, the
then CP, Ahmedabad City, Shri K. Nityanandam, the then Secretary
(Home) and Shri Prakash S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (Law & 318 order). Shri G.C. Raiger, the then Addl. DG (Int.), who was on casual
leave and had returned to Ahmedabad on 27-02-2002 evening, had
not attended the same. However, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then Deputy
Commissioner of Intelligence (Security) has claimed to have
attended the said meeting at the instance of DGP. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 403

 All the aforesaid officials have been re-examined and their
statements recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Their deposition in brief is given
below:- According to Shri Chakravarthi Shri O.P. Mathur, the then IGP (Admn. &
Security) was also available and could have been called in the said
meeting instead of calling a junior officer of SP level (Shri Sanjiv Bhatt).
Shri Chakravarthi has further stated that as per his recollection,
none of the Ministers/politicians had attended the said meeting on
27-02-2002. Shri Chakravarthi has also stated to have briefed CM
about the bandobast made by him in the wake of the bandh call given
by VHP on 28-02-2002, and also about the additional requirement of
forces. Shri Chakravarthi had also informed CM about the appeal
made by him to the general public on Door-Darshan/All India Radio
to maintain peace. As per Shri Chakravarthi, CM had said that the
Godhra incident was very serious and bound to affect the public at 320 large and therefore, adequate arrangements should be made. Shri
Chakravarthi has stated that CM had also spoken about the Govt.
decision to transport dead bodies of Godhra victims to Ahmedabad
City by road and to keep them in Sola Civil Hospital, which was then
located on the outskirts of Ahmedabad City. According to Shri
Chakravarthi, this decision was not opposed by anyone in the
meeting, as a considerable number of victims belonged to
Ahmedabad and nearby places. Regarding the allegation against Chief
Minister for speaking in the terms that for too long the Gujarat Police ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 404

had been following the principle of balancing the action against the
Hindus and Muslims etc. and the Hindus be allowed to vent their
anger, Shri Chakravarthi has denied any such utterances by Chief
Minister in the meeting. He also denied having spoken to Shri R.B.
Sreekumar, the then Addl. DG (Arms Unit) in this regard. (v) Shri. P.C. Pande, the then Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad City
has denied the presence of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt in law & order meeting
called by Chief Minister on 27-02-2002 night. He has further stated
that the meeting lasted for 15-20 minutes and that the discussions
centred around maintenance of Law & order in view of the bandh call for
the next day, its likely repercussions and availability of forces. As regards
the allegations against Chief Minister about having said that for too
long the Gujarat Police had been following the principle of balancing
the actions against Hindus and Muslims etc. etc. and the Hindus be
allowed to vent their anger, Shri Pande has categorically stated that
no such instructions to allow any freedom to any law breaker were
given by Chief Minister. He has out rightly denied the presence of
any Minister or Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) in the said
meeting. Regarding the Govt decision to transport the dead bodies of
Godhra Victims to Ahmedabad, Shri Pande has stated that he does not
recollect the exact talks, which took place in the said meeting, but the
sum and substance of the discussions was that the dead bodies were
being brought to Ahmedabad City with a view to facilitate the
relatives of the deceased persons to identify and claim the same. (vi) Shri Anil Mukim, IAS, the then Addl. PS to CM has stated that he
attended the said meeting for some time and then left after taking 321 permission from Shri P.K. Mishra, IAS (Retd.) the then Principal Secretary
to CM. He has further stated that as long as he was present in the
meeting, general discussions were held regarding the Godhra incident
and necessary preventive measures required to be taken under the
circumstances were also discussed. He has out rightly denied any
utterances/instructions by CM about Muslims being taught a lesson
and the Hindus being allowed to vent their anger, in his presence. He
has denied the presence of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security)
in the said meeting. He has also denied the presence of any Minister
or politician in the meeting. (viii) Shri K. Nityanandam, the then Secretary (Home) has stated that
he attended the law & order meeting called by the Chief Minister at his
residence on 27-02-2002, at about 2300 hrs. He has further stated that
the deliberations in the meeting mainly revolved around the Law &
order situation post Godhra train incident and efforts to handle
future Law & order problems in view of the bandh call on 28-02-2002.
He has denied the presence of any Minister or Shri Sanjiv Bhatt in
the said meeting. He has also denied any such alleged observations
made by the Chief Minister about Muslims being taught a lesson etc.
etc. and the Hindus be allowed to vent their anger. According to Shri
K. Nityanandam, he does not recollect Shri Sanjiv Bhatt being
present in any law & order meetings called by the Chief Minister as
IGP/Addl. DGP rank officer were available in the State Intelligence
Bureau to present the issues relating to intelligence. (ix) Shri Prakash S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (Law & order) has
confirmed to have attended the Law & order meeting called by the Chief
Minister at his residence on 27-02-2002 night. He has further stated
that the Chief Minister gave an account of Godhra incident, while
Shri Chakravarthi and Shri Pande briefed CM about the possible
repercussions of Godhra incident about the arrangements and
bandobast made by them and also about the deployment of forces.
According to Shri Shah, the Chief Minister instructed all the officers
that communal peace and harmony be maintained at all costs and all
possible steps be taken to control the possible communal flare up.
He has denied the presence of any Minister or Shri Sanjiv Bhatt in
the said meeting. He has further stated that the Chief Minister did
not say anything on the lines of the police approach of balancing
action against Hindus and Muslims and also that the Hindus should
be allowed to vent their anger. (x) Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) stated that he received
intelligence inputs on 27-02-2002, regarding the despatch of dead bodies
from Godhra to Ahmedabad under police escort, the State supported
bandh call and the intention of the Sangh Parivar activists to parade the
dead bodies in the form of funeral procession in communally sensitive
areas of Ahmedabad City. He has claimed to have attended a late night
meeting of 27-02-2002 called by the Chief Minister at his residence about
which he was intimated by State IB Control Room and State Police Control
Room that Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP wanted him to accompany
the latter in the said meeting. Significantly; at enquiry stage Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt himself has admitted in his signed statement that Shri G.C. Raiger;
the then Addl. DG (Int.) was on casual leave till ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 405

28.02.2002, but had curtailed his leave and came back to Ahmedabad on
27.02.2002 evening. This fact has been confirmed by Shri G.C. Raiger,
the then Addl. DG (Int.), who has stated to have called DGP and informed
about his availability from the evening of 27.02.2002. Moreover, Shri P.
B. Upadhay, the then DCI (Communal), the concerned officer dealing with
the communal subject has also stated to have curtailed his casual leave
on 27.02.2002 and was available in the office. He also stated that he
had accompanied Shri K. Chakravarthi in the latter's car from DGP's
office to CM's residence and claimed that he attended the said
meeting, which was also attended by Incharge Chief Secretary Smt.
Swarna Kanta Varma, ACS (Home) Shri Ashok Narayan, Shri Anil
Mukim, the then Addl. PS to CM, Shri P.C. Pande, the then CP,
Ahmedabad City and Shri K.Nityanandam, the then Secretary
(Home). However, he is unable to recollect, as to whether Shri P.K.
Mishra, the then Principal Secretary to CM was present in the said
meeting or not Shri Bhatt has further stated that to the best of his
recollection, no politician/Minister was present in the said meeting.
He has also stated that Shri G.C. Raiger, the then Addl. DG (Int.) did not
attend the said meeting being on casual leave and that he was not aware,
as to whether Shri Raiger had returned to Ahmedabad on 27-02-2002
evening. He has denied to have contacted Shri Raiger on 27-02-2002
evening, at his residence. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has claimed that he used to
attend the intelligence related meetings called by the Chief Minister. As
per Shri Bhatt, this meeting was essentially a Law & order review 323 meeting and the main issues discussed during the said meeting
revolved around the bandh call given by VHP and ruling BJP as well
the decision to bring the dead bodies of Godhra victims to
Ahmedabad. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has also stated that Shri P.C. Pande,
the then CP, Ahmedabad City had strongly opposed the Govt.
decision for the transportation of dead bodies of Godhra victims to
Ahmedabad as the same was likely to lead to serious communal riots
in Ahmedabad City and these views were supported by Shri K.
Chakravarthi, the then DGP. According to Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, Shri
Chakravarthi had conveyed to CM that the available resources of
Gujarat Police were over stretched to cope with the law & order
situation that was likely to arise in the wake of bandh call given by
the VHP on the next day and had expressed his inability to
supplement the manpower resources of CP, Ahmedabad City. Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt has stated that as per his recollection, there was no
meaningful contribution from Shri K. Nityanandam, the then Secretary
(Home). Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home) and Smt. Swarna
Kanta Varma, the then acting Chief Secretary. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has
further stated that DGP and CP, Ahmedabad City tried to impress upon
the Chief Minister that the bandh call given by VHP on 28-02-2002, which
was supported by the ruling party BJP was not a good idea, as far as the
law & order situation of the State was concerned but the Chief Minister
did not seem to be convinced by their arguments and stated that the
incident like burning of kar-sevaks at Godhra could not be tolerated.
According to Shri Bhatt, CM impressed upon the gathering as below :- According to Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, no minutes of the meeting were
prepared by him or DGP, but he had no knowledge as to whether any
minutes were kept by CM's office or Home Department. He also claimed
of making a mention of the said meeting in his movement diary for
February, 2002. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has further stated that he expressed
his opinion against the decision of BJP to support the bandh call given by 324 VHP and also the decision of the administration to-bring the dead bodies
of the victims from Godhra to Ahmedabad City. He also stated that he
expressed a view that the taking out of the funeral procession of the
victims in the respective areas would lead to major communal violence in
Ahmedabad City and other communally sensitive areas across the State. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt stated that he took leave thereafter from Shri K.
Chakravarthi, the then DGP, and returned to state IB office in order to
send alert messages and instructions to the concerned police/intelligence
units. Subsequent to the aforesaid meeting at CM's residence, Shri Bhatt
has claimed to have issued several messages to the Police units as well as
the field units of the IB with respect to the developing situation including
the possibility of wide spread communal violence during the Gujarat
bandh and wherein, he reiterated to different CsP and SSP to take all
possible measures to prevent untoward incidents in their respective
jurisdiction. Surprisingly, he ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 406

informed everyone about it but did not inform his own Head of the
Department i.e. Shri G.C. Raiger, whom he had allegedly represented in
the meeting and whose present in the station was very much in his
knowledge. He has denied to have contacted Shri G.C. Raiger over phone
in the night of 27-02-2002 and has stated that he briefed Shri Raiger
about the said meeting and the deliberations that had taken place, when
he had attended office on the next day, i.e. 28-02-2002 morning, at about
1000 hrs which has been denied by Shri Raiger. Interesting, the call
details of Govt. mobile phone of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt show that he was at
Ahmedabad till 1057 hrs on 28.02.2002. He has further claimed that the
details of the discussions held during the said meeting were not
mentioned in any of the official correspondence/reports as he had
attended the said meeting in the capacity of an intelligence Officer.
Further, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has claimed that the reports had started
coming in the office of the State IB regarding the preparations made by
the cadres of Sangh Parivar to carry out strict enforcement of the bandh
call given by them on 28-02-2002, and that same should be available in
the records of State IB. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has also claimed to have
attended the second meeting at CM's residence on 28-02-2002 at about
1030 hrs along with Shri G.C. Raiger, the then Addl. DG (Int), in which 325 the deployment of manpower during the Gujarat bandh was discussed to
monitor the developing situation and that this meeting was also attended
by Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP, Shri Anil Mukim, the then Addl.
PS to CM, Late Ashok Bhatt, the then Health Minister and Shri I.K.
Jadeja, the then Urban Development Minister. Shri Bhatt has further
stated that on the conclusion of the said meeting, the Chief Minister had
instructed DGP that Late Ashok Bhatt and Shri I.K. Jadeja would be
assisting the police in monitoring the situation and that all necessary
assistance must be rendered to the Ministers. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has also
stated that CM had not specifically instructed as to how the Ministers
would assist the police. Further, according to Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the issue
relating to the requisitioning of the Army was also discussed on the basis
of the suggestions given by DGP and Addl. DG (Int.), but the Chief
Minister seemed to be reluctant and was of the view that they should wait
and watch, as to how the situation developed and not rush for the
requisitioning of Army. According to Shri Bhatt, he returned to the Police Bhavan and went
to his chamber on the second floor, but shortly thereafter went to DGP's
chamber around 1100 hrs to obtain his signature for requisitioning
additional forces and found Late Ashok Bhatt and Shri I.K. Jadeja seated
in his chamber, where everyone took tea. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has further
stated that sometime later, he visited State Control Room on the first floor
of Police Bhavan, to collect some documents and saw Shri I.K.Jadeja and
his staff members occupying the chamber of Dy.SP State Control Room.
Finding this arrangement to be little odd and inconvenient, with the
permission of the DGP he shifted Shri Jadeja and his staff to the chamber
of Shri P.C. Thakur, the then IGP, who was on leave. Later during the day,
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt came to know that Shri Jadeja had left the Police
Bhavan, However, as per Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, Shri Jadeja did not interfere
with the working of State Police Control Room on 28-02-2002, or
thereafter. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has also claimed that he came to know from
his staff later that Late Ashok Bhatt was stationed in Ahmedabad City
Police Control Room on 28-02-2002. On being questioned, as to whether deliberations in CM's meeting
or the developments in the Control Rooms were mentioned by him in any
of the reports submitted to the senior officers at any stage, Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt has claimed that he had attended the said meeting along with the
DGP and Addl. DG (Int.) as a Staff Officer and as such there was no
necessity to submit any report to them. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has claimed to
have received information about a mob attack on Gulberg Society around
1130 hrs on 28-02-2002, and he had deputed PI Shri Bharwad of 326 Ahmedabad Regional Office located in Meghaninagar to go to Gulberg
Society, to report on the developing situation and inform the State IB.
According to Shri Bhatt, he had conveyed these developments to DGP and
Addl. DG (Int.) personally. In view of the fact that Late Ahesan Jafri, Ex-
MP was residing in the Gulberg Society, he (Sanjiv Bhatt) telephonically
conveyed the details about the developing situation to the Chief Minister
directly. However, he does not recollect, as to whether he had spoken to
the Chief Minister over landline or over the mobile phone of Shri O.P.
Singh, PA to CM. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has stated that he attended another
meeting at CM's residence on 28.02.2002 afternoon for the assessment of
the ongoing situation, which was attended to by ACS (Home), DGP, Addl.
DG (Int.), and Secretary (Home), in which the Chief Minister had agreed
to send a formal requisition to Govt. of India for deployment of Army. He
has claimed that he briefed the Chief Minister about the ongoing
developments at Gulberg Society and also about the threat to the life of
Late Ahesan Jafri and other residents of the Gulberg Society Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt has gone to the extent of claiming that the Chief Minister took him
aside after the meeting and informed him that he had learnt that Late
Ahesan Jafri had ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 407

opened fire on Hindus during earlier communal riots. According to Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt, the Chief Minister asked him to dig out all the facts
pertaining to earlier instances, wherein Late Ahesan Jafri had opened fire
during the past communal riots. Shri Bhatt claimed that he conveyed
these facts to Shri G.C. Raiger, the then Add. DG (lnt.). However, Shri
Bhatt has stated that he could not check/collect this information as he
remained busy with certain urgent matters connected with the riots. Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt has denied having submitted any report to his department
and claimed that he had attended this meeting as a Staff Officer to the
DGP or AddI DG (Int.), which is incorrect as there was no post of Staff
Officer to Addl. DG (Int.). On being questioned, as to why did he not appear as a witness in
response to a public notice issued by SIT on 11-03-2008, he claimed that
he did not disclose the same to anyone, as it would not have been
appropriate on his part to divulge any information that he was privy to as
an Intelligence Officer unless he was under a legal obligation to do so. He 327 has also stated that he did not file any affidavit or appeared before any
commission or any other body enquiring into the communal riots of 2002,
because he was not asked by the Govt. of Gujarat, DGP or AddI.DG (Int.)
to do so. He has denied knowledge as to whether the alleged instruction
given by the Chief Minister were passed on to the field units by any of the
officers, who had attended the meeting on 27-02-2002. The stand taken
by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt is not acceptable on account of the fact that firstly it
was essentially a law & order meeting, in which many civilian officers were
present and there was nothing secret about it. Furthermore, Shri Bhatt
has various opportunities and legal obligations to disclose these facts, if
true, firstly to Shri R.B. Sreekumar, the then Addl. DG (Int.), who had
asked him to provide any oral and documentary relevant fact to be
included in his affidavit relating to riots Incidents on behalf of State IB
required to be filed before Nanavati Commission,
Secondly, Nanavati Commission a legally constituted body under Commission of Inquiry Act had issued a public notice calling upon any
one having knowledge about the incident of issues involved before it, to
file an affidavit and furnish information, but Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not file
any affidavit. Thirdly, SIT, legally constituted by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India had also issued a public notice on 11.04.2008 calling upon
the people to come forward and give information relating to the riots. but
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt conveniently did not come forward. Fourthly. another
opportunity was given to him in November, 2009, to make a statement
during the course of inquiry ordered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India, but Shri Sanjiv Bhatt took the plea that it would not be
professionally appropriate on his part to divulge the exact nature of
discussion that took place during the said meeting, unless he was duty
bound to disclose the same under legal obligation. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, on his own and without being summoned
appeared before the IO on 25-03-2011, i.e. two days after the recording of
his statement, along with one constable named Shri K.D. Panth and
requested that his (Bhatt's) further statement should be recorded. In his
further statement, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt mentioned the names of two
Assistant Intelligence Officers (AIOs) namely, Shri Shailesh Raval and
Shri K.D. Panth, who used to accompany him to most of the meetings. He
has further stated that subsequent to the recording of his statement on
21 & 22.03.2011, he had been able to recollect that Shri K.D. Panth had
followed him to CM's residence with the files in his staff car from DGP's
office, whereas he himself had accompanied DGP Shri K. Chakravarthi in
the latter's staff car. He has also stated that Shri K.D. Panth returned
with him in his car to Police Bhavan and remained in the office till late in 328 the night and attended to urgent official work. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt also
informed that then Shri Tarachand Yadav, was his driver who is presently
attached to Shri V.K. Mall, Joint Director, Gujarat Police Academy, Karai,
Gandhinagar. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt also disclosed that, as DCI (Security), he
was using the Govt. mobile phone no. 9825049398. During the course of further investigation seven senior
administrative and police officers namely, Shri Ashok Narayan, the then
ACS (Home), Shri P.K. Mishra, the then Principal Secretary to CM, Shri
K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP, Shri P.C. Pande, the then CP Ahmedabad
City, Shri Anil Mukim, the then Addl. PS to CM, Shri K. Nityanandam, the
then Secretary (Home) and Shri Prakash S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary
(L&O), who had been earlier examined during 2009-10 have categorically
stated that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) was not present in
the said meeting held at CM's residence on 27.02.2002 night. During the
earlier inquiry, three participants of this meeting namely Shri
Nityanandam, Shri Anil Mukim and Smt. Swarna Kanta Verma were not
asked this question while three others namely Shri Ashok Narayan, Shri
P.C.Pande and Shri P. K. Mishra had stated that they did not recollect.
Shri P.S. Shah had not been examined during the inquiry. However, Shri
K. Chakravarthi had ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 408

stated at that stage also that Shri Bhatt was not present in this meeting.
They have also confirmed that no Minister/Politician was present in the
said meeting. Smt. Swarna Kanta Varma, being ACS (Health & Family Deptt.) and
the then acting Chief Secretary was never posted in the Home Department
and therefore, she did not know Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security).
On being shown the photograph of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, she has stated that
she cannot recollect having ever met or seen him in any meeting.
According to Smt. Swarna Kanta Varma, the Chief Minister had stated in
the said meeting that incident in Godhra was very unfortunate and it
should be dealt with a heavy hand. She also does not recollect having
seen any Cabinet Minister in the said meeting. All the participants of the
meeting held on 27.02.2002 night, have denied that CM had uttered any
words on the lines that Gujarat Police had been following the principle of
balancing the actions against the Hindus and Muslims while dealing with 329 the communal riots in Gujarat and that the situation warranted that
Muslims be taught a lesson to ensure that such incident do not recur ever
again and that the emotions were running very high amongst the Hindus
and they be allowed to vent their anger. There is unanimity amongst all the participants of the said meeting
that no Minister/politician was present in the meeting. Shri Bhatt has
contended that Shri P.C. Pande, the then CP Ahmedabad City had
strongly opposed the Government's decision regarding transportation of
the dead bodies to Ahmedabad City, as the same was likely to lead to
communal riots and that his views were supported by Shri K.
Chakravarthi, the then DGP. His version stands contradicted by Shri P.C.
Pande, the then CP, Ahmedabad City, who had stated that the sum and
the substance of the meeting was that the dead bodies were being brought
to Ahmedabad City with a view to facilitate the relatives of the deceased
to identify and claim the same. Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP has clearly stated that the
decision of the Govt. To bring the dead bodies of Godhra victims at
Ahmedabad City, was not opposed by anyone on the ground that a large
number of victims belonged to Ahmedabad and nearby places, which were
easily approachable, from Ahmedabad. This would go to show that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt was giving an imaginary account of the deliberations of the
meeting and did not know as to what exactly transpired there. Further, it
has been contended by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt that both DGP and CP,
Ahmedabad City had tried to impress upon the Chief Minister that the
band call given by the VHP on 28-02-2002, which was supported by the
ruling party BJP was not a good idea as far as the Law & order situation
of the State was concerned and that the Chief Minister was not convinced
by their arguments. In this regard, Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP
has stated that in the night of 27.02.2002, he did not know that the bandh
call given by the VHP was supported by the ruling party BJP and as such
there was no question of any such opposition by him. Shri P.C. Pande has
also stated that on 27.02.2002, he did not know that the bandh was
supported by the BJP and came to know about it only on 28.02.2002,
through newspaper reports. All the participants of the meeting have
stated that the Chief Minister had expressed the apprehension that the
Godhra incident was very serious and bound to affect the public at large,
as a result of which there could be repercussions and therefore, adequate
bandobast was needed to avoid any untoward incident. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has claimed that he mentioned the fact of
having attended the said meeting on 27-02-2002 night in his 330 movement diary. However, the State IB has reported that no such
diary was being submitted by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, Shri G.C. Raiger, the
then Addl. DG (Int.) has stated that there was no such system of
submitting any monthly movement diary by DC and that Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt had never submitted any such diary. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt have
claimed to have briefed Shri G.C, Raiger, the then Addl. DG (Int.) on
28.02.2002, at about 1000 hrs about the alleged meeting held by the
Chief Minister and also about the illegal instructions given by the
latter. This claim is absolutely false and is contradicted from the call
detail records of the Govt. mobile phone no. 9825049398 of Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt, which show that the location of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was
at Memnagar, Ahmedabad till 10:57:43 hrs on 28.02.2002. Further,
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has claimed that he did not submit any report
about the meeting held by the Chief Minister at his residence on
27.02.2002 night, as he attended the meeting as a Staff Officer to
DGP/Addl. DG (Int.). This contention put forward by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
is absurd because there was no post of Staff Officer to Addl DG (Int.)
and Shri K. Chakravarthi has denied that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was
posted as Staff Officer to DGP, as the Staff Officer was of the rank of
Dy. SP and not SP Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has contended that he did not
file affidavit nor appeared as a witness before the SIT in response to
a public notice issued by the SIT, as it would not have been
appropriate on his part ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 409

to divulge any information that he was privy to as an intelligence
officer unless he was under a legal obligation to do so. In this
connection, it would not be out of place to mention here that
assuming for the time being that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt attended the
alleged meeting of 27.02.2002 the same was essentially a law & order
meeting attended by the various officials of State Administration and
therefore the question of oath of secrecy or application of the Official
Secrets Act does not arise because it was neither a secret meeting
nor would the revelation of the contents of the said meeting
jeopardized the public interest. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has used the
weapon of the Official Secrets Act only as a pretext with a view to
justify a long delay of nine years just because an official of the
intelligence unit attended a law & order meeting, the same does not 331 became a secret meeting for which a privilege of secrecy is being
claimed by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt. In any case, Nanavati Commission and
SIT have been set up under the provisions of law of the land and all
the citizens/ officials are legally bound to divulge the information
available with them which are relevant to the terms of reference/
crimes of the Commission being investigation by SIT. In view of this, the explanation put forward by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
does not hold good Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had gone to the extent of saying
that he learnt from the other staff that Late Ashok Bhatt was
stationed in Ahmedabad City Police Control Room, which has no
value, whatsoever, being the hearsay evidence. The claim of Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt that he had opposed the bringing of dead bodies to
Ahmedabad from Godhra, is belied from the fact that all the
participants of the said meeting have categorically stated that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt did not attend the said meeting. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has specifically claimed that he had
accompanied the DGP Shri K. Chakravarthi to the residence of the
Chief Minister in the night of 27.02:2002 in latter's staff car, which
has been denied by Shri K. Chakravarthi. The statement of Shri K.
Chakravarthi has been supported by the entry made by Shri K.
Chakravarthi in his staff car log book written by him on the relevant
date in his hand, which show that two persons (1+1), i.e. DGP and his
PSO used the car on 27.02.2002. The version of Shri K. Chakravarthi
is further corroborated by his PSOs namely Shri Dilip Ahir and Shri
Dharmpal Yadav, who have categorically stated that Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt never accompanied the DGP in his staff car. It is a fact that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did send four wireless messages
on 27-02-2002 to all the jurisdictional officers to take all precautionary
measures to prevent communal riots as Godhra incident was likely to
have State wide repercussions. These wireless messages were sent by him
as DCI (Communal) as Shri P.B. Upadhyay, the then DCI (Communal)
was on casual leave on that day i.e. 27-02-2002. However, he had
resumed duty in the evening. Significantly, on 28-02-2002, all the
concerned wireless messages were sent by Shri P.B. Upadhyay, the then
DCI (Communal), who was dealing with the subject. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt as
DCI (Security) had also sent a fax message on 28-02-2002, to Home
Secretary, Gandhinagar with information to PS to CM, PS to MoS (Home),
DGP and Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad City, in which he had
intimated about a Hindu mob attack on Gulberg Society resulting into
death of atleast 18 persons including Late Ahesan Jafri, Ex-MP and its 332 family members and the attack was continuing. Shri Bhatt had expressed
his apprehension that this incident could have State wide ramifications.
Though no time had been mentioned on this message, yet it appears that
this fax message was sent only after the killings had taken place and the
Gulberg Society had been set on fire. In all probability this message had
been sent on the basis of the fax message sent by PI C.J. Bharwad, the
then PI, Ahmedabad City Regional State IB office at 1700 hrs.
 Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has further contended that in view of the fact that
Late Ahesan Jafri, Ex-MP was residing in Gulberg Society, he had
telephonically conveyed the details directly to the Chief Minister either on
landline or on the mobile phone of Shri O.P. Singh, PA to CM. However,
he has not been able to specify on which telephone he rang up the Chief
Minister. Shri O.P. Singh has denied that he received any call from Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt. The call details of Gandhinagar tower are not available as
the same had not been requisitioned by Shri Rahul Sharma, the then SP,
during investigation of the riot cases Notably there is no practice in
Gujarat of SP level officers speaking directly to CM over phone. Further,
Shri G.C. Raiger the then Addl. DG (Int.), who was very much in office on
28.02.2002, has stated that this was totally false and that Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt had never informed him about it. Shri C.J. Bharwad, the then PI, State IB, Ahmedabad Region has
stated that on 28.02.2002, on the basis of information collected by him
during the riots, he had gone to Gulberg Society Meghaninagar of his own
and passed on the various information reports collected by him ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 410

to State IB Control Room. He has further stated that around 1215 hrs on
28-02-2002, he had sent a message to State IB Control Room that since
Muslims reside in Gulberg Society in Meghaninagar area, a strict watch
should be kept there. He has contradicted the statement made by Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security), and has denied to have any
telephonic discussions with him about the situation in Gulberg Society in
as much as the subject concerned the "Communal" Desk of IB was being
looked after by Shri P.B. Upadhyay, the then DCI(Communal). He has
further stated to have passed on a message at 1450 hrs on 28.02.2002,
that a mob of 3000 rioters had surrounded Gulberg Society. On 28-02-
2002 itself, he had passed on another message at 1700 hrs that a mob of 333 5000 rioters had surrounded and set fire to the Gulberg Society, in which
several persons including Late Ahesan Jafri, Ex-MP had been burnt alive
and that police deployment was required. The version of Shri Bharwad
belies the testimony of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security), who has
claimed that he had given directions to Shri Bharwad to go to the Gulberg
Society and give the latest updates and that Shri Bharwad was in
constant touch with him. Investigation further revealed that the headquarters of State
Intelligence Bureau is located at Gandhinagar and is headed by an Addl.
DG, assisted by IGP (Security), DIG (Political & Communal) and three
Deputy Commissioners of Intelligence and other officers and supporting
staff. Besides State IB, there are intelligence units headed by Inspectors/
Dy SsP working independently in the Districts. The State IB has been
entrusted with the duties of collection of intelligence in respect of
maintenance of law & order including communal intelligence in Gujarat
State. In brief, the functions, of the State IB relate to collection and
collation of information regarding political, industrial and other similar
development in the State, verification of antecedents, protection and
security of the VIP's, watch over anti-national activities, movement of
foreigners and all other matters pertaining to the internal security,
collection of intelligence regarding all types of communal activities and to
keep the Govt. informed of all these activities from time to time. In February, 2002, Shri G.C. Raiger was posted as Addl. DG (Int.)
and was assisted by Shri O.P. Mathur, IGP (Security & Admn.). In
addition, there was another post of IGP (Political & Communal), which
was lying vacant due to the death of Shri S.Kumar in January, 2002.
There were three SP rank officers out of which, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was
posted as DCI (Security), Shri P.B. Upadhyay as DCI (Political &
Communal) and the third post was DCI (Admn.) which was lying vacant.
It has further come to light that Shri G.C. Raiger was on casual leave from
26.02.2002 to 28.02.2002 and was away to Rajasthan, but returned on
27.02.2002 evening. Shri P.B. Upadyay, the then DCI (Communal) was
on leave from 26.02.2002 onwards to arrange for sacred thread ceremony
of his grandson fixed for 01.03.2002. However, Shri O.P. Mathur, IGP had
called him up on 27.02.2002 afternoon, informed him about the Godhra
incident and instructed to resume duties immediately. Accordingly, Shri
Upadyay had resumed duties on 27.02.2002 evening. However, in his
absence, his work was being looked after by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, who was
the only other SP rank officer in the State IB. Shri G.C. Raiger has stated that on his return to Ahmedabad on 27-
02-2002, he had come to know about the Godhra incident and had
telephonically informed DGP Shri K. Chakravarthi on 27.02.2002 evening
that he would cut short his leave and come to Gandhinagar, if necessary,
to which the DGP asked him to join on 28.02.2002. Shri Raiger has denied
having been informed by the DGP about the meeting called at CM's
residence on 27.02.2002 late in the night. Shri Raiger denied having
received any information about the meeting from either the State IB
Control Room, State Control Room or even Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then
DCI (Security). Shri O.P. Mathur has also denied that he received any
such information about a meeting called at CM's residence on 27.02.2002
night. Shri P.B. Upadhyay, the then DCI (Communal), who had resumed
the duties on 27.02.2002 evening, and used to look after Communal and
Political section and was the concerned officer to be associated with the
said meeting, had also no information about the said meeting thereby
suggesting that no one from the intelligence was required to attend the
said meeting. Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP has stated that he had gone to
studios of Door-Darshan, Ahmedabad City on 27-02-2002 late in the
evening, for the telecast of an appeal to the general public to maintain
communal harmony and peace, when he received a message from State
Control Room that CM had called for a meeting at his residence at
Gandhinagar around 2230 hrs. Shri Chakravarthi has stated that he
straight away went to CM's residence at Gandhinagar and reached there
a little earlier and waited as CM had not arrived from Godhra by ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 411

that time. According to Shri Charkravarti, Smt. Swarna Kanta Varma, the
then acting CS, Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home), Shri P.C.
Pande, the then CP, Ahmedabad City and Shri K. Nityanandam, the then
Secretary (Home) arrived only subsequently. Shri Chakravarthi has
categorically denied having given any instructions to Shri Sanjiv-Bhatt,
the then DCI (Security) to attend the aforesaid meeting. He has further
stated that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not accompany him to CM's residence
in his car from DG's office, as he (DGP) did not visit office at that time.
He has also stated that in case Shri Raiger was available at Ahmedabad,
he would have given instructions to State Control Room to call him.
According to Shri Chakravarthi even otherwise, Shri O.P. Mathur, the 335 then IGP (Admn. & Sec.) was available and could have been called to
attend the meeting rather than asking Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, a junior officer
of SP level to attend the said meeting. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) has named two AIOs
namely Shri K.D. Panth and Shri Shailesh Raval, who used to
accompany him to such meetings along with the files. After Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt's further statement was recorded at his own request on
25-03-2011, he insisted that Shri K.D Panth, who was accompanying
him and was waiting outside, should also be examined. He Stressed
that Shri Panth should be examined in his presence. However, Shri
Bhatt was informed that Shri K.D. Panth would be called on a date
convenient to the IO and examined. Accordingly, Shri Panth was
informed on 04-04-20 11, to attend SIT office on 05-04-2011, for his
examination. Shri K.D. Panth in his examination has stated that he was on
casual leave on 27-02-2002. Further, he has denied that he followed
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) to CM's residence on 27-
02-2002 night. However, he has stated that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had
called him to his residence on 24-03-2011 night and informed that
he was going to make a statement before the SIT that he (K.D. Panth)
had gone to attend a meeting at CM's residence on 27-02-2002 night,
and that he (Panth) had been called at State IB office and be ready
with the files for the said meeting. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt further informed
Shri Panth that he should accompany him to SIT office on 25-03-
2011, and make a statement on these lines. During his examination, Shri Panth further stated that he has
contacted Shri Sanjiv Bhatt over his landline telephone no.27455117
from mobile no. 8140657775 (belonging to one of his friends) after he was
called for examination scheduled for 05-04-2011. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt called
him at his residence on 04-04-2011 at 2030 hrs. At his residence, Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt informed Shri Panth that he has made a statement to the
SIT that he (Bhatt) had accompanied DGP. Shri K. Chakravarthi in his
official car to CM's office from DGP's office on 27-02-2002 night and that
he (Shri Panth) had followed him in his (Shri Sanjiv Bhatt's) staff car along
with the files. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt asked Shri Panth to make a statement
accordingly. Subsequently, Shri K.D. Panth lodged a complaint against Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt with the local police to the effect that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
had influenced, detained, put severe pressure and compelled him to
sign an affidavit containing false/wrong and incorrect facts, in 336 pursuance of which a case no. I CR No.149/2011 was registered u/s
189 , 193 , 195 , 341 , 342 IPC with Ghatlodia police station,
Ahmedabad City, Gujarat State. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has since been
arrested in this case and the matter is under investigation. In view
of this, no reliance can be placed upon the version of Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt. This conduct of Shri Sanjiv Bhat, in arranging, prompting and
controlling the witness to corroborate his statement is highly
suspicious and undesirable. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt also contacted Shri
Shailesh Raval on 28-03-2011/29-03-2011, over mobile phone
no.9825688223 of one Shri NJ. Chauhan, a clerk in CM's Security
and informed him that he would be called by SIT for his examination.
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt also asked Shri Shailesh Raval that he had worked
with him in Security Branch for a long time and was aware that he
(Sanjiv Bhatt) used to attend meetings, to which Shri Raval reacted
by saying that he had accompanied him in Border Security Nodal
Committee meetings, which used to deal with the Border Security
only. Shri Raval also informed Shri Sanjiv Bhatt that he never worked
in the Communal Branch and was not aware of anything about it.
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt thereafter disconnected the phone. Shri Shailesh
Raval, PI later sent a complaint in writing to the Chairman, SIT that
he feared reprisal from Shri Sanjiv Bhatt as he had refused to support
the false claims of Shri Bhatt. This is yet another attempt on the part
of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt to tutor a witness to depose in a particular
manner so as to support the statement made by him, which further
makes his claim of having attended the meeting at CM's residence
on 27-02-2002 false. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 412

 Shri Tarachand B. Yadav, driver constable in SRP Group-XII, who
had been dismissed from service on the charge of getting employment in
Gujarat Police on the basis of false and forged certificate, has stated that
he used to drive the staff car allotted to Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI
(Security) during February-March, 2002. However, he does not remember
the registration number of the staff car. Shri Yadav could not give the
name of Personal Security Officer of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI
(security). However, he has stated that he recollects that Shri Sanjiv 337 Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) had gone to CM's residence in a three star
car with either DGP or some ADGP from Police Bhavan and that he had
followed him in his staff car, in which Shri K.D. Panth, the then AIO, State
IB sat with some files. He has also stated that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then
DCI (Security) returned after about 25 minutes and he took him to Police
Bhavan, where he worked till midnight i.e. 0030 hrs and then drove him
back to his residence at Ahmedabad. Shri Yadav could not say as to
whether Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) accompanied DGP or
some ADGP rank officer. He has denied knowledge, as to whether Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt went inside CM's office to attend the meeting or not, as he
was waiting outside. He has also stated that on 28-02-2002, Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt reached Police Bhavan at about 0900 hrs and worked in his office
and did not go out to attend any meeting at CM's house. On 28-02-2002,
he has stated that he started from Gandhinagar dropped Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt at his residence at about 1900 hrs. However, he could not recollect
the details of the various events of 1st, 2nd & 3rd March, 2002 due to
passage of time. The version of Shri Tarachand B. Yadav is contradicted by Shri K.D.
Panth, who has denied to have followed Shri Sanjiv Bhatt in his staff car
driven by Shri Tarachand Yadav. Besides that he is an unreliable witness
due to his background. He has been dismissed from service due to his
own misconduct. Moreover, he has admitted to have gone to the residence
of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) on 17-04-2011 afternoon, for
getting a briefing before making a statement to SIT. The call details of his
mobile phone clearly show that he was in touch with Shri Sanjiv Bhatt,
the then DCI (Security). Even when he was being interrogated in SIT office,
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was repeatedly contacting him over his mobile phone to
which he did not respond. In addition, the version of Shri Tarachand
Yadav about the movements of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt on 28-02-2002, are
proved to be false in as much as Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not come to
Gandhinagar at 0900 hrs, as the call detail records of his official mobile
phone show his location at Ahmedabad City till 1057 hrs. Shri Tarachand
Yadav further contradicts the version of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, who claims to
have attended a meeting on 28-02-2002 at 1030 hrs, at CM's residence.
The overall impression left in the matter is that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has
introduced him as a false witness with a view to corroborate his own false
version about having attended a meeting at CM's residence on 27-02-
2002 night, whereas in fact Shri Tarachand Yadav does not recollect
anything about the events of 27-02-2002 onwards. Moreover, he is a
motivated witness, who has got an axe to grind against the Govt. on 338 account of his dismissal from service. In view of this no reliance can be
placed upon his evidence. During further investigation, PSOs of the then DGP Shri K.
Chakravarthi were examined. PSI Dilip Jivaram Ahir and Head constable
Dharampal Jagaram Yadav stated that they had never seen Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt sitting in the vehicle along with DGP. Shri G.C. Raiger, the then Addl. DC, (Int.) has stated that Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt was never posted as Staff Officer to Addl. DG (Int.), because there
is no post like that in the State IB. Further, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt could not
have been a Staff Officer to the DGP, as Late V.S. Shinde, Dy.SP was
posted as Staff Officer to the DGP. Shri Raiger has further stated that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt used to accompany him in the meetings called by the Chief
Minister sometime, but was normally made to wait outside with the
relevant files/information and did not join the meetings. Shri Raiger was
unable to recollect any meeting called by the Chief Minister, which Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt attended along with him. Shri Raiger has further stated that
on 28-02-2002, he did come to know about the meeting called by the Chief
Minister at his residence on 27-02-2002, but Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not
inform him of having attended the said meeting and also about its agenda
or the matters discussed in the said meeting. Shri R. B. Sreekumar formerly ADGP Intelligence, in his interview
given to the Star Hindi News Channel at 12.35 hrs on 22.04.2011 has
stated that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, DCI (Security) had never informed him
about having attended a meeting at CM's residence on 27.02.2002. He
has further stated that at the time of filing an affidavit before Nanavati
Shah Inquiry Commission, he had asked all the officers of State IB to
provide him with the relevant ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 413

information and documents in respect of Godhra riots but Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt did not give him any information about the said meting. According
to Shri Sreekumar, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was handling security portfolio and
communal portfolio was being looked after by another officer. Shri
Sreekumar has also stated in the interview that it was a normal procedure
that if a junior officer had attended a meeting on behalf of senior, he was
required to submit a report to his superior and that Shri G.C. Raigar, the 339 then ADGP (Int) should be asked about it. As already stated above, Shri
Raigar has denied having received any information/report from Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt in this regard. The call detail records of the Govt. mobile phone
no.9825049398, allotted to Shri Sanjiv Bhatt show that on 27-02-
2002, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt remained at Ahmedabad till about 1120 hrs
and returned to Ahmedabad at 1925 hrs. He attended to various calls
till 2040 hrs and thereafter, there is no record of any calls made or
received by him. However, the call details record do not indicate that
he was going towards Gandhinagar on or at 2040 hrs. Further, on 28-
02-2002, as per call details the location of Shri Bhatt was noticed at
Ahmedabad till 10:57:43 hrs and again at Ahmedabad at 2056 hrs.
The claim of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt that he had attended a meeting at
CM's residence on 28-02-2002, at 1030 hrs is, therefore, proved to
be false and incorrect. CM's residence is at Gandhinagar, more than
25 KMs from his residence at Memnagar, Ahmedabad, and it normally
takes 30 to 45 minutes to reach Gandhinagar. His further claim that
he had seen Late Ashok Bhatt and Shri I.K. Jadeja, the then Ministers
in the DGP's office at about 1100 hrs on 28-02-2002, is also belied
from the call detail records in as much as the location of the mobile
phone of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was at Prerna Tower, Vastrapur-1,
Ahmedabad, which happened to be at a distance of 1.5 Kms
approximately from his residence and by any stretch of imagination
Shri Bhatt could not have reached Police Bhavan, Gandhinagar before
1130 hrs.
 Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home) has stated that a meeting
was held by the Chief Minister in the morning of 28-02-2002, which was
attended by acting Chief Secretary, DGP and Addl. DG (Int.) and the
matter relating to the calling of Army was also discussed, but no decision
was taken and it was decided to watch the situation. He has categorically
denied that Late Ashok Bhatt and Shri I.K. Jadeja, Ministers had attended
the said meeting. The claim of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt that he had attended the
said meeting at 1030 hrs at CM's residence is proved to be false from the
location of his mobile phone, which was at Prerna Tower, Vastrapur-I,
Ahmedabad City at 10:57:43 hrs. Moreover, his contention that the
aforesaid two Ministers were present in the said meeting is proved to be
false from the statement of Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home),
who has categorically stated that they were not present in the said
meeting. As regards the alleged utterances made by the Chief Minister in
the meeting called on 27-02-2002 night at his residence, it may be
mentioned here that Shri R.B. Sreekumar, the then Addl. DG (Int.)
had claimed that Shri K.Chakravarthi, the then DGP had informed
him on 28-02-2002 that the Chief Minister had said in the meeting
that “KOMI HULLADO MA TAME POLICE BARABARI KARO CHO, TAME
BE HINDU NE PAKDO TO TAME BE MUSALMANO NE PAN PARDO CHO,
HAVE EM NAHI CHALE. HINDUONO GUSSO UTTARWA DO.” (In
communal riots police takes action against Hindus and Muslims on
one to one basis. This will not do now-allow Hindus to give vent to
their anger.) Shri Chakravarthi as denied that he held any such talks
with Shri R.B. Sreekumar. Even otherwise, the version of Shri R.B.
Sreekumar becomes hearsay. However, on the other hand Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt, who insists that he was in the said meeting, has alleged that
the Chief Minister had said “that for too long the Gujarat Police had
been following the principle of balancing the actions against the
Hindus and Muslims while dealing with the communal riots in
Gujarat. This time the situation warranted that the Muslims be taught a
lesson to ensure that such incidents do not recur ever again. The Chief
Minister Shri Narendra Modi expressed the view that the emotions were
running very high amongst the Hindus and it was imperative that they be
allowed to vent out their anger”. Assuming for the time being that the
Chief Minister did say so, there is a material difference between the two
versions in as much as Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has tried to improve his version
by way of addition “that this time the situation warranted, that the
Muslims be taught a lesson to ensure that such incidents do not recur
ever again” Since there is no independent corroboration of the version of
either Shri R.B. Sreekumar or Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, no reliance can be placed
on either of them. It is relevant to mention here that the Ld. Amicus
Curiae has agreed with the findings of SIT that the aforesaid statement of
Shri R.B. Sreekumar was not admissible in evidence. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has not been able to give any satisfactory
explanation that when he was in possession of plethora of
information and was an eyewitness to some of the important events, ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 414

then why did he not file an affidavit before Nanavati Commission and
also did not appear as a witness in response to the Govt. circular
before any legal authority. He does not explain as to why he did not 341 respond to a public notice issued by SIT on 11-04-2008. However, on
21/22—03-2011, when he made a statement, u/s 161 Cr.PC before
the SIT, it is not understood as to by whom and how the claimed
secrecy was waived. His silence for a period of more than nine years
without any proper explanation appears to be suspicious and gives
an impression that he is trying to manipulate the things to his
personal advantage to settle his service matters. During the course of further investigation a complaint was received
from Shri Dharmesh P. Shukla, an accused in I CR No.67/2002 of
Meghaninagar P.S. (Gulberg Society Case), who is facing trial, in which
he contended that there was no justification to record the statement of
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt on account of the following reasons:- Since the allegations leveled by the complainant were serious, a
communication was sent to the Govt. to make available the details of all
complaints/pending inquiries/prosecutions/departmental proceedings
etc. against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt. A detailed reply has been received from
the Govt. of Gujarat, which shows that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has faced a
number of departmental inquiries and he was granted three promotions
to the rank of Junior Administrative Grade, Selection Grade and DIG
Grade on one day i.e. 21-09-2007, after dropping of three departmental
inquiries pending against him vide orders dated 06-08-2005, 03-09-2005
& 24-07-2006. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, who is eligible for the IGP grade has not
been promoted because of the departmental inquiries and criminal cases
pending against him. A charge-sheet served upon him on 29-12-2010, 342 for irregularities in police recruitment under his Chairmanship as SP,
Banaskantha is still pending. It has further come to light that while handling a law and order
situation during his posting as ASP Jamnagar in the year 1990, Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt committed police atrocities on peaceful and innocent
villagers belonging to a particular community at a place called Jam
Jodhpur. In the beatings by police, one person was killed. The victims
included a pregnant woman, two assistant engineers of Irrigation,
department and one Circle officer of Revenue Department. Shri Bhatt
applied provisions of draconian law TADA against the innocent persons
and arrested 140 individuals under this Act. Due to public pressure, the
Government got an inquiry conducted from a retired Judicial officer into
the incident and Shri Bhatt was found guilty of (a) misuse of TADA (b)
police atrocities and (c) unnecessary imposition of curfew for 70 hours
leading to hardship and harassment to the people. It has also come to light that the criminal case relating to death of a
person due to police atrocities in the incident was investigated by State
CID (Crime) against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt and others. On completion of
investigation, the I0 sought prosecution sanction from the Government u/s 197 Cr.PC. which was declined and therefore, a closure report was
filed in the competent court. However, the Court rejected the closure
report on 20.12.1995 and took cognizance. The State Government filed a
Criminal Revision Application in the Sessions Court, which was rejected.
A case u/s 302 , 323 , 506(1) , 114 of IPC has now been committed to
Sessions Court, Jamnagar and is presently pending with the Fast Track
Court, Jam-khambhalia for framing of charges against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
and others. Significantly, Gujarat High Court awarded a compensation of
Rs.1,50,000/- to the victim who had died due to police atrocities in the
above case . ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 415

 Another criminal complaint was filed against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt,
while he was posted as SP, Banaskantha District in 1996 by Shri
Sumersingh Rajpurohit, an Advoçate practicing at Pali, Rajasthan and a
criminal case was registered against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt & others vide FIR
No.403/96 dated 18-11-1996 u/s 120B , 195 , 196 , 342 , 347 , 357 , 365 , 388 , 458 , 482 IPC and Sec. 58 (1) & 58 (2) of NDPS Act. On completion of 343 the investigation, a chargesheet was filed against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt &
others u/s 114 , 120B , 323 , 342 , 348 , 357 , 365 , 368 , 388 , 452 , 201 & 482 IPC and Sec. 9 , 17 , 18 , 29 , 58(1) : & 58 (2) r/w Sec. 37 of NDPS Act in the
court of Spl. Judge, NDPS Act, Jodhpur, Rajasthan. The allegations in
brief are that the complainant Shri Surnersingh Rajpurohit, Advocate was
occupying a property as a tenant in Pali (Rajasthan), which was owned by
a lady, who happened to be a sister of Shri R.R. Jain, a sitting Judge of
Gujarat High Court. As per the said criminal complaint Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
and his subordinate police officers planted 1½ kg of Narcotic drug in one
room in a hotel at Palanpur, Gujarat, which was shown as occupied by
the said complainant though he was at Pali (Rajasthan) at that time. The
said Advocate was abducted at midnight, on the instructions of Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt by his subordinate police officers of Gujarat police, who went
from Palanpur, Gujarat to Pali (Rajasthan) to abduct him. The said
Advocate was brought to Palanpur, Gujarat and pressurized by Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt and his subordinate police officers to vacate the said
property by showing him arrested under NDPS offence. The said Advocate,
while in the custody of Gujarat Police and due to police torture, vacated
the property and physical possession of the property was handed over to
the sister of Shri R.R. Jain, Judge of Gujarat High Court. Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt and his subordinate police officers thereafter released Shri
Surnersingh Rajpurohit on 08-05-1996, by filing a report u/s 169 Cr.PC.
in which it was mentioned that Shri Sumersingh could not be identified
in the Test Identification Parade. Quashing Petitions were filed in this
matter by the accused persons in Rajasthan and Gujarat High Courts,
but the same had been dismissed. The matter is now pending before the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. In the meantime, on the complaint of Shri Sidheshwar Puri,
Secretary, Bar Association, Pali (Rajasthan), National Human Rights
Commission, taking a very serious view of this false case under NDPS
Act , vide its order dated 15-09-2010 asked Govt. of Gujarat to pay a
sum of Rs. one lakh as monetary relief to Shri Sumersingh, Advocate
Pali. Significantly, Gujarat Vigilance Commission recommended twice on
15-07-2002 and 19-10-2006 that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt should be placed
under suspension for his professional misconducts, but the Govt. of
Gujarat did not do so. In view of the aforesaid position, it can be inferred that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt is facing a lot of problems in service matters and has 344 got an axe to grind against the Govt. of Gujarat and, therefore, his
evidence is ill motivated and can not be relied upon. Government of Gujarat vide its letter dated 22-06-2011
forwarded a set of emails exchanged between Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, DIG,
Gujarat Police and certain individuals during April & May 2011. It
was mentioned in the above letter that during the course of an
inquiry instituted against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, IPS by DG (Civil
Defence), Gujarat regarding misuse of official resources, some
revelations have been made having direct bearing on the cases being
monitored by SIT. The material forwarded by Govt. of Gujarat has
been scrutinised and the salient features of the same are summarized
as below:- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 416

(2) That Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had been persuading various NGOs and
 other interested groups to influence the Ld. Amicus Curiae and
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India by using "Media Card" and
 "Pressure Groups". (3) Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had been exchanging emails with one Nasir
 Chippa and in the email dated 11-05-2011 Shri Bhatt has stated
 that he (Nasir Chippa), should try to mobilize support/pressure- groups in Delhi to influence Ld. Amicus Curiae Shri Raju
 Ramchandran in a very subtle manner. In another email dated
 18-05-2011, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had requested Shri Nasir Chippa
 to influence Home Minister Shri P. Chidambaram through
 pressure groups in U.S. It is believed that Shri Nasir Chippa has
 strong U.S. connections and his family stays there.
(4) That Shri Sanjiv Bhatt arranged an appeal from Shri M. Hasan
 Jowher, who runs a so called NGO titled SPRAT (Society for
 Promoting Rationality) to Amicus Curiae on 13-05-2011, to call
 Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, IPS, Shri Rajnish Rai, IPS, Shri Satish Verma,
 IPS, Shri Kuldeep Sharma, IPS and Shri Rahul Sharma, IPS (all
 police officers of Gujarat) to tender their version of the Gujarat
 story. It may be mentioned here that the draft for the said
 appeal was sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt himself to Shri Jowher.
 Further, a copy of this mail was circulated by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
 to Ms. Shabnam Hasmi, Ms. Teesta Setalwad, Shri Himanshu
 Thakker, journalist, Shri Leo Saldana, Journalist, and Shri Nasir
 Chippa to encourage the persons/organisation to write to
 Amicus Curiae on the similar lines so as to pressurize him.
(5) In emails exchanged on June 1, 2011 between Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
 and Shri M.H. Jowher, it was proposed that a PIL may be filed
 through a lawyer named Shri K. Vakharia (a Sr. Advocate and
 Chairman of Legal Cell of Congress Party in Gujarat) in the
 Gujarat High Court for providing security to Shri Sanjiv Bhatt.
 It was also proposed that another complaint may be filed with
 the Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad City against Shri
 Narendra Modi & others for his alleged involvement in 2002
 riots which would be taken to appropriate judicial forums in due
 course. (6) That Ms. Teesta Setalwad, her lawyer Shri Mihir Desai and
 Journalist Shri Manoj Mitta of Times of India were in constant
 touch with Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, IPS and were instrumental in
 arranging/drafting of the affidavit for filing the same in Hon’ble
 Supreme Court. Vide email dated 10-04-2011, Shri Bhatt
 solicited "Co-ordinates" from Ms. Teesta Setalwad, who had also
 arranged for a meeting with her lawyer Shri Mihir Desai at
 Ellisbridge Gymkhana, Ahmedabad. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt sent the
 first draft of his proposed affidavit to Shri Manoj Mitta on 13-
 04-2011, after meeting Shri Mihir Desai, Advocate and invited
 his suggestions. Shri Manoj Mitla advised Shri Sanjiv Bhatt to 346 incorporate a few more paragraphs drafted by him which were
 incorporated by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt in his final affidavit sent to
 Hon’ble Supreme Court of India as suggested by Shri Mitta.
(7) That Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was instrumental in arranging an
 affidavit of one Shri Shubhranshu Chaudhary, a journalist, to
 corroborate his claim that he had gone to attend a meeting
 called by the Chief Minister at his residence in the night of 27-
 02-2002. Significantly, Shri Bhatt had sent his mobile phone
 details of 27-02-2002 to Shri Shubhranshu Chaudhary and had
 also suggested the probable timings of his meeting to Shri
 Shubhranshu Chaudhary on 15-05-2011. Simultaneously, these
 details were sent to Ms. Teesta Setalwad on 26-05-2011, for
 drafting the document, presumably the affidavit to be filed by
 Shri Shubhranshu Chaudhary. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt sent an email
 to Shri Shubhranshu Chaudhary that the said affidavit could be
 leaked out to the print media which would force the Amicus
 Curiae and Hon’ble Supreme Court to take notice of the same.
 Shri Sanjiv Bhatt also sent another email to Shri Shubhranshu
 Chaudhary, in which he has stated that they should play the
 “Media Trick” so that affidavit is taken seriously by Amicus
 Curie and the Hon'ble Supreme Court
(8) That Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had been exchanging emails with one
 Leo Saldana, a Narmada Bachao Andolan activist, with a view to
 mobilize public opinion in their favour. On 01-05-2011, Shri
 Sanjiv Bhatt had sent an email to the latter to the effect that
 what they needed to do at this stage was to create a situation,
 where it would be difficult for three judges Supreme Court
 Bench to disregard the shortcomings of SIT under stewardship
 of ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 417

 Mr. ‘Raghavan’ and that the Pressure groups and opinion
 makers in Delhi could be of great help in forwarding the cause.
 He has further stated in the mail that he was hopeful that
 things would start turning around from the next hearing, if
 proper pressure was maintained at National level. (9) That Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was trying to contact Shri K.S.
 Subramanyam, a retired IPS officer, through Shri Nasir Chippa
 to make an affidavit supporting his stand with a view to
 convince the Amicus Curiae arid through him the Hon’ble
 Supreme Court of India that Shri K Chakravarthi former DGP of
 Gujarat, was a liar. (10) That Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had been taking advice of Ms. Teesta
 Setalwad in connection with his evidence before Nanavati
 Commission of Inquiry. He had also been in touch with various
 journalists, NGOs and had been forwarding his representations,
 applications and other documents through email; whereas on
 the other side he had been claiming privilege that being an
 Intelligence Officer he was duty bound not to disclose anything
 unless, he was legally compelled to do so. (11) That Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had been maintaining a close contact
 with Shri Rahul Sharma, DIG of Gujarat Police and had been
 getting his mobile phone calls analysed with a view to ascertain
 his own movements of 27-02-2002. This shows that Bhatt does
 not recollect his movements on that day. He has also been
 trying to ascertain the movements of Late Haren Pandya, the
 then Minister of State for Revenue on 27-02-2002, with a view
 to introduce him as a participant of the meeting of 27-02-2002
 held at CMs residence, but could not do so, as Shri Rahul
 Sharma had informed him after the analysis that there was
 absolutely no question of Late Haren Pandya being at
 Gandhinagar on 27-02-2002 night. From the study of emails, it appears that certain vested
interests including Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, different NGOs and some
political leaders were trying to use Hon'ble Supreme Court/SIT as a
forum for settling their scores. This would also go to show that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt had been colluding with the persons with vested
interests to see that some kind of charge-sheet is filed against Shri
Narendra Modi and others. Observations made by Ld. Amicus Curiae: 2002 and that 1 Battalion strength having 3 columns was deployea
in Bapunagar, Gomtipur, Raikhad and Amraiwadi at Ahmedabad City.
He further informed that the IInd battalion was deployed in
Dariyapur, Shah-Alam, Danilimda, Khadia, Kalupur, Shahpur and
Madhupura P.S areas. Shri Gurdayal Singh had also informed that 2
companies of the IIIrd battalion were deployed in Juhapura, Vejalpur
and Paldi areas and one company kept in reserve. Shri P.S. Shah has further stated that on 01-03-2002, another
crash wireless message was sent by Shri J.R. Rajput, the then Under
Secretary, Home Department with the approval of the ACS (Home) to
all CsP, DMs, SsP, IGs and Western Railway SP, Baroda, in which it
was emphasised that in view of the prevalent surcharged and tense
atmosphere, directions given by the Home Department time and
again for maintenance of public order and peace should be
implemented. In this message, several other instructions including
implementation of communal riots scheme, guidelines given by the
Govt. of India to promote communal harmony, effective actions 352 against unruly mobs and unlawful assembly and meetings of Peace
Committee etc. were also given. Shri P.S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (L&O) has also stated
that on 01-03-2002, DGP felt that the resources available with him
were insufficient to deal with the law & order situation in the Gujarat
and as such with the approval of ACS (Home), 3 letters were sent by
Shri K. Nityanandam, the then Secretary (Home) to Chief Secretary,
Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharasthra, through which these
states were requested to spare 10 companies each of their Armed
police to help the Gujarat police in handling the law & order
situation. A reply dated 01-03-2002 was received from Shri R.K. Nair,
Addl. Chief Secretary, Govt. of Rajasthan, in which he regretted to
spare any police force for duties in Gujarat for the time being.
However, 2 Coys of SRP were provided by the Govt. of Maharasthra
on 03-03-2002, and the same were deployed in Surat. Shri G. Subba Rao, the then Chief Secretary has stated that he
had gone abroad and was recalled on 01-03-2002., He has further
stated that, he sent a wireless message to all CsP, DMs, Range IGs
and SsP to the effect that District Administration and police had to
act in a decisive, prompt and effective Manner to bring the situation
under control and that they should no hesitate to use whatever force
was necessary to bring the situation under control. The Chief
Secretary also emphasised in this message that when lives and
properties were threatened in communal situation, necessary, force
including firing should to be resorted to bring the situation under
control and if the situation deteriorated beyond a point besides
imposing curfew, “shoot at sight” orders also be issued to prevent
gathering of unlawful mobs at public places. The jurisdictional
officers were asked to acknowledge this communication and ensure
that no major incident took place under their jurisdiction. Shri Sanjay Bhavsar, OSD to CM has stated that on 02-03-2002,
the Chief Minister held another meeting with Shri George Fernandes,
the then Union Defence Minister at 0830 hrs at his residence. During
0930 hrs to 1230 hrs, CM met the H.E. the Governor of Gujarat and
apprised him of the latest situation and the security arrangements
and bandobast made by the administration. CM further discussed the
packages for the relief camps started by the various NGOs. CM also
discussed the cash doles and the other help to be given to the riot.
victims. The Chief Minister also gave instructions that SSC/HSC
board examination be held as scheduled in peaceful atmosphere and 353 also to ensure the safely of students. Two Law & order review
meetings were held, by the Chief Minister at his residence at 1300
hrs and 1500 hrs respectively. CM held ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 420

meeting of the officials of the Home Department at 1600 hrs at
Circuit House Annexe, Shahibaug, Ahmedabad City. CM also held a
press conference at 1630 hrs in Circuit House Annexe, Shahibaug,
Ahmedabad City, during which a detailed press release was issued by
the Govt. of Gujarat. CM held an all party meet at 1800 hrs, in which
the congree leaders did not participate. Another law & order review
meeting was held by the Chief Minister at his residence at 2030 hrs.
 According to Shri P.S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (L&O)
some instances of attack on life and property in villages had been
reported on 02-03-2002. He has stated that in view of violence in
rural areas he sent a crash wireless message to all CsP, DMs and SsP
including SP, Western Railway, Baroda to the effect that sufficient
police patrolling be organised to cover villages, where a particular
community may be in smaller number and steps be taken to prevent
the entry of antisocial elements from out side the State or from large
cities into rural areas through nakabandi. The jurisdictional officers
were asked to convene peace committee meeting at Taluka level to
sensitise social leaders in rural areas for the need to keep peace.
They were also instructed to keep a telephonic contact with the
villagers through the concerned police station in rural areas to obtain
information and act quickly. Directions were also issued to these
officers to deploy the available forces suitably to meet the developing
situation and also to maintain sufficient mobility. Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home) has also stated that
he sent a wireless message on 02-03-2002, in which it was
emphasised upon the jurisdictional officers that apart from their
duties of maintenance of law & order. the process of healing, building
confidence amongst the people, diffusing tension and promoting
communal harmony was also required to be geared up immediately
by the District Administration and to achieve this object the
District/City Ekta Committee, Peace Committees and Mohalla
Committees should be activated and arrangements made to hold 354 these meetings. The jurisdictional officers were also asked to involve
the prominent members of all the communities, social leaders and
NGOs in this process and to report compliance by 04-03-2002. As per Shri Sanjay Bhavsar, the Chief Minister left for
Ahmedabad airport on 03-03-2002 at 0900 hrs, and received the then
Union Home Minister Shri L.K. Advani at 1050 hrs. From airport the
Chief Minister accompanied the Union Home Minister at 1145 hrs to
some of the riot affected areas like Delhi Darwaja, Idgah area and
then went to Civil Hospital to see the riot victims. At 1215 hrs, CM
accompanied the Union Home Minister to Godhra by helicopter and
reached Godhra at 1300 hrs. At Godhra, the. Union Home Minister
visited Godhra Railway Station and inspected the scene of
occurrence. Later, he visited Civil Hospital, Godhra and met victims
of the train incident. Shri Advani left Godhra at 1345 hrs by
helicopter and reached Ahmedabad at 1430 hrs. Shri L.K. Advani held
a law & order review meeting with the officials of Home Department
as well as the police department at 1600 hrs, which was attended by
the Chief Minister, MoS (Home), Chief Secretary, ACS (Home), DGP
and senior officers of Home, Police and Revenue department. The
Union Home Minister asked the State Govt. to trace the culprits
responsible for Godhra incident and get them punished to take
measures to restore peace, to prevent violence and that, strict action
be taken against those who indulged in violence. Shri Advani
reviewed the measures taken by the State Govt. to restore law &
order in the State. In this meeting the Chief Minister gave directions
to organise joint peace marches. Thereafter, Shri Advani held a press
conference at Circuit House Annexe, Shahibaug, Ahmedabad City at
1700 hrs. Shri L.K Advani went to Gandhinagar accompanied by the
Chief Minister and met the then H.E. the Governor of Gujarat at 1830
hrs. At 1900 hrs Shri L.K. Advani met the Ministers of Gujarat Govt.
at CM's residence. Shri L.K. Advani thereafter, left for Hyderabad.
Later, the Chief Minister held a law & order review meeting at his
residence at about 2030 hrs.
 Shri Sanjay Bhavsar, OSD to CM has further stated that on 04-
03-2002, the Chief Minister met the H.E. Governor of Gujarat at
latter's residence at 0930 hrs and apprised him of the latest law &
order situation and bandobast made in Ahmedabad City. Between
1030 hrs and 1300 hrs, CM held a law & order review meeting and
also held discussion with the officials of Home, Police and Legal
department for the appointment of a Judicial Inquiry Commission.
The chief Minister further held discussion about the Panchayat 355 elections and local bodies elections, which were due in March/April
2002. The Chief Minister also held discussions for ex-gratia payment
to the riot affected persons, NGO relief camps, compensation for
destruction of the properties during riots with the concerned
officers. The Chief Minister also discussed the issues relating to
Gram Panchayat and local bodies' elections and SSC/HSC exams.
Shri Advani came ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 421

to Bhavnagar directly on 04-03-2002. In view of this, the Chief
Minister left for airport at 1300 hrs and then left for Bhavnagar by
air at 1330 hrs. The Chief Minister reached Bhavnagar at 1410 hrs
and met Shri L.K. Advani at 1420 hrs. At Bhavnagar, they had a
round of riot affected areas like Ranika, Ghogha Darwaja and S.T.
Station Road. They also visited Akwada Madressa, where 400-500
Muslim students were saved on account of a timely action by the
police, held law & order review meeting and met the representatives
of different organisations including minority delegations and
political leaders. They left for Rajkot at 1600 hrs and reached there
at 1630 hrs. At Rajkot, CM, the then Union Home Minister and others
visited Gondal Road, Lodhawad chawk. Parevadi Chawk and Lati plot
areas. It may be mentioned here that during the earlier riots in
Gujarat, the Kutch and Saurasthra region were peaceful, but in the
year 2002 some signs of riots were noticed in these areas, as a result
of which CM and other leaders visited these areas so that the riots
did not spread there. A law & order meeting was also held with the
police officers at Rajkot. At Bhavnagar and Rajkot, high level
meetings were held by CM and other leaders, in which CM directed
to launch combing operations to track down the antisocial elements
and recover lethal weapons and explosives. CM left Rajkot at 1800
hrs and reached his residence at Gandhinagar at 1915 hrs. At 2030
hrs, CM held a meeting with the Ministers of his Government. CM
has also instructed on 04-03-2002, that “SHANTI KOOCH” should be
held in villages and as such a wireless message to this effect sent by
ACS (Home) to all the DMs, CsP, SsP etc on the same day. As per Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home), he sent
another message dated 04-03-2002, to all CsP, SsP, DMs, in which it 356 was emphasised that rumour mongers should be dealt with in an
exemplary manner and that city peace committees be activated to
assist in restoring peace. He also pointed out that the Hon'ble Chief
Minister had instructed that “Shanti-Kooch” be held in villages after
looking into the local situation. It was also mentioned in this
message that all class-I & II officers of Revenue and Panchayat should
be instructed to visit the villages at least twice a week and that the
Talatis and primary school teachers should be instructed to stay in
their respective places of duties and keep in touch with the village
leaders and sensitise them about the need to keep peace in their
villages. Shri P.S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (L & O) has stated that
he has sent a crash wireless message on 04-03-2002, all CsP, DMs,
SsP to convene the peace committee meetings immediately, in which
the participation of individuals from every community be ensured
and also to hold peace marches in all the villages viewing the local
situation. The jurisdictional officers were also requested to involve
revenue/ development machinery as per the instructions contained
in the Home Department crash message dated 02-03-2002 and
document the same with the help of either videography or
photography and send the same to the Home Departmeint. Shri P.S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (L&O) has also stated
that he sent another fax message dated 04-03-2002 to all CsP, DMs
and DDOs, in which he pointed out about the receipt of disturbing
reports of attempts to disturb the traditional peace and amity in the
villages. It was highlighted that there was failure of the society
represented by village panchayat and the village peace committees
in meeting out this responsibility. He also impressed upon the
aforesaid officers to take action u/s 50 of the Bombay Police Act,
which provides for imposition of punitive fines and also about the
temporary withdrawal of developmental grants and facilities, if any
village was bent upon indulging in senseless and sectarian violence
against its own members or neighboring villages. On 04-03-2002, a letter dated 02-03-2002 was received from
Dy. Secretary, Information and Broadcasting department, Govt. of
Gujarat by Shri Ashok Narayan, in which it was pointed out by I & B
deptt. that in view of the prevailing situation in the Gujarat State, if
any cable network exhibits programme/news, which might incite
violence or might create law & order problems, strict action should
be taken immediately against them under the provisions or Cable 357 Televisions Networks Regulation Act 1995 & rules thereunder. On
receipt of the same, a DO letter was sent by Shri Ashok Narayan on
05-03-2002, to Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP, to ensure strict
and effective implementation of the revised guidelines issued by the
Govt. of India for promotion of communal harmony. DGP was further
advised to take action against those elements, who had
demolished/damaged certain places of worship and also against
those who had converted some of the religious places of worship of a
religious denomination into places of worship of different religious
denomination under the provisions of Places of Worship (Special
Provision) Act 1991. Besides that DGP was advised that reporters,
editors, printers, publishers and owners of the media must be advised
to discourage distorted reporting /telecasting and action ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 422

u/s 153 (A) & 505 (2) IPC should be taken against writers/publishers
of the objectionable of inflammatory material promoting or
attempting to promote disharmony or feeling of enmity, hatred or ill
will between different religious communities/groups. DGP was also
advised that in order to maintain sanctity of religious places and
prevent their misuse for criminal, subversive or communal activities
the provisions of Religious Institution (Prevention of Misuse) Act be
invoked, as it would help in maintenance of peace, order and
transquillity. Shri Sanjay Bhavsar has also stated that on 05-03-2002, CM
held a law & order review meeting at his residence. The Chief
Minister also addressed a High Level meeting attended by Chief
Secretary, Revenue Secretary, Health Secretary, Secretary (R&B) and
Health Commissioner and gave specific instructions to them to visit
18 relief camps in different areas. CM also instructed the Collector
& District Magistrate, Ahmedabad to make arrangements for the
distribution of food and essential commodities with the help of
commercial organizations. At 1430 hrs, CM left for Ahmedabad and
held a meeting with prominent citizens at Gujarat Chamber of
Commerce, Ahmedabad. The Chief Minister made an appeal to the
trade and industry, heads of religious organisations and intellectuals
to help revive and restore economic activities, which evoked 358 encouraging response from all quarters. CM categorically said that
the Govt. would not compromise with law breaking antisocial
elements and that, the Govt. was committed to re-establish the sense
of mutual trust and confidence. The Chief Minister out rightly
condemned the law breakers and subsequent violent incidents. At
about. 1630 hrs, CM visited C.G. Road at 1700 hrs, Mahajan Vando,
Jamalpur at 1730 hrs, Shethia building char rasta and Revadi Bazar,
Relief Raod at 1800 hrs, Delhi Darwaja at 1830 hrs, Gulberg Society
at 1900 hrs and Naroda Patiya at 1930 hrs. CM was accompanied by
Late Ashok Bhatt, the then Health Minister, Shri Kaushikbhai Patel,
the then Energy Minister, Smt. Anandiben Patel, the then Education
Minister, Late Haren Pandya, the then MoS Revenue Minister, Shri
Bharatbhai Pandya, the then sitting MLA, Smt. Mayaben Kodnani,
the then MLA and Shri P.C. Pande, the then CP. Ahmedabad City. Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home) has further stated
that he sent a confidential wireless message on 05-03-2002, to all
CsP, Range IGPs, DMs and all SsP that the surcharged communal
atmosphere in parts of Gujarat was returning to normal and that
measures suggested by the Govt. of India in the revised guidelines
for communal harmony should be implemented with a view to gear
up the process of restoration of normalcy and promoting communal
harmony. On 05-03-2002, Shri Ashok Narayan has also stated that he sent
a DO letter to Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP that the law &
order situation was being brought under control and the State was
gradually returning to normal with the curfew being lifted in a phased
manner from the places where the situation was improving, but it
was due to the presence of Army and CPMFs, which was only a
temporary measure and reinforcement to the State Police resources
should be done. It was further pointed out that the anti-social
elements night be awaiting the withdrawal of these forces and might
attempt to create disturbances again and that the possibility of
sporadic incidents, revenge or an organised backlash from either
community or attacks on the law enforcing agencies could not be
ruled out. It was also emphasized upon the DGP that the respite
provided by the temporary assistance of Army and CPMEs should be
used to strengthen, their own control over the law & order situation
to meet these possible Challenges. DGP was also asked to chalk out
a suitable strategy in this regard. On 05-03-2002 itself, a
representation dated 04-03-2002 was received from Kadi Muslim
Samaj, Kadi, Mehsana to provide protection to them his 359 representation was forwarded by him to the DGP vide his DO letter
dated 05-03-2002 to provide all necessary protection to the Muslim
samaj as soon as possible. On 06-03-2002, Shri P.S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (L&O)
sent another wireless message to CsP, DMs and all SsP to make
necessary, bandobast, give protection to the Haj Yatris and to ensure
that they reach safely to their residences. On the same day, he sent
another message to all the aforesaid officials to review the local
position and made adequate bandobast at various mosques for
thwarting any act of provocation and also for the protection of the
mosques on 08-03-2002, when a large number of Muslim were likely
to assemble in the mosque for Namaz. On 06-03-2002, a representation was received by Shri Ashok
Narayan, the then ACS (Home) from the residents of Jawahar Chawk,
Raikhad, Ahmedabad City for giving adequate police protection to
them, which was immediately forwarded by him to Shri K.
Chakravarthi, the then DGP for further necessary action. On 06-03-
2002 itself, a DO letter was received by ACS ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 423

(Home) from Shri Arvind Shukla, PS to the Governor of Gujarat
forwarding there with a representation from Daudi Vohra Community
of Garbada taluka, Dahod Distt. with a request to continue the BSF
protection. This representation from Daudi Vohra Community was
forwarded by him to DGP Shri K. Chakravarthi immediately that the
H.E. Governor of Gujarat had desired that in Garbada, Gangardi and
Jesawada and surrounding rural area of Garbada taluka in Distt.
Dahod, the BSF baridobast should be continued, and an intensive
police patrolling should be done. On 06-03-2002, another
representation was also received by ACS (Home) from Ahmedabad-
Mehsana High Way Hotel Association requesting financial assistance
for the damage done to the hotels during the riots in Gujarat and the
same was forwarded by him to Shri C.K Koshi, Principal Secretary,
Revenue Department, Gandhinagar for further necessary action. On 06-03-2002, a DO letter was sent by Shri Ashok Narayan,
the then ACS (Home) to DCP stating that as the violence in the State 360 continues, it was necessary that the police should strictly adhere to
the principles of rule of law, take effective action to prevent further
violence and deal ruthlessly with all the violators. He also suggested
that effective but controlled use of force be resorted to deal firmly
with violators, to arrest all ring leaders and people whose names
figured in the FIR, to conduct combing operations to recover
arms/explosives and other material used or likely to be used in the
present situation and also to recover all stolen/looted property. DGP
was also requested to initiate action immediately so that supremacy
of law could be established. On 06-03-2002, some members of the press had mentioned to
Shri Ashok Narayan that though the names of some of the VHP and
Bajrang Dal leaders figured in the FIR No. 98/2002 of Naroda P.S.
against Shri Kishan Korani & others and in Gulberg case FIR against
Shri Dipak Patel yet they had not been arrested. This information
was immediately passed on by ACS (Home) to the DGP for suitable
action in the matter. Shri P.S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (L&O) has further
stated that on 07-03-2002, he sent another wireless message to CP,
Range IGPs, DMs and all SsP to exercise strict vigil at temples on
Maha-Shivratri festival to be celebrated on 12-03-2002, in view of the
highly surcharged and tense situation prevailing on the communal
front. It was highlighted that antisocial and hardcore communal
minded elements bent upon to jeopardise communal harmony should
be dealt with firmly and promptly. It was also emphasised that peace
and communal harmony must be maintained at all costs. Further
instructions were given by him to all the jurisdictional officers to
provide adequate security to Shiva temples to avoid any untoward
incident. These instructions were given in the light of the fact that
symbolic pooja at Ayodhya was scheduled to be held on 15-03-2002. Shri Ashok Narayan has further stated that on 07-03-2002, he
sent a DO letter to Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP, in which he
referred to the earlier discussions held with him during which it was
felt that there was a need to overhaul the intelligence set up and also
to increase the lump sum amounts available to the field officers and
requested him to send a proposal in this regard. He also pointed out
that during the discussions with the Chief Minister, he had pointed
out that there was a necessity to do very effective combing and to
identify areas to prevert further incidents of terrorism and violence. On 07-03-2002, a note was sent to Shri Ashok Narayan by the
Chief Secretary that tough law & order situation was fast returning
normal, it was necessary to intensify the efforts by taking effective
steps regarding rounding up of all known anti-social elements and
also to conduct combing operations for detection and seizure of
illegal arms and ammunition. These instructions were
communicated to DGP on 07-03-2002 itself by Shri Ashok Narayan
through a DO letter requesting him to take effective steps on these
lines. On 07-03-2002 itself, a representation was received from Shri
Farook Sheikh, MLA, Kalupur, Ahmedabad City intimating that he
and his family had been receiving telephonic threats on their life for
a long time and armed police protection be provided to him. This
representation of Shri Farook Sheikh MLA, Kalupur was forwarded to
DGP on 07-03-2002, by Shri Ashok Narayan with a copy to CP,
Ahmedabad City. Shri P.S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (L&O) stated that he
sent a wireless message on 13-03-2002, to the jurisdictional officers
to monitor the situation/developments closely for maintenance of
law & order in their respective jurisdiction in the light of Hon'ble
Supreme Court's order in Writ Petition filed by Mohd. Aslam Vs.
Union of India to maintain status-quo and that Ram-Sevaks should
not be allowed to perform symbolic pooja. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 424

 Shri P.S. Shah, the then Addl, Secretary (L&O) has also stated
that on 14-03-2002, a wireless message was sent by him to all CsP,
Range IGPs, DMs and all SsP that in the light of order passed by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in a Writ Petition filed by Aslam
Bhura Vs. Union of India on 13-03-2002, either symbolic or actual
Bhumi-Pooja should not be permitted to take place. Further, as a
statement had been made by Secretary, VHP to the effect that
demonstrations would be held from 14-03-2002 onwards all over the
country, it was likely to lead to the communal clashes. All the
aforesaid jurisdictional officers were specifically directed to
strengthen security arrangements at religious places, deal firmly
with anti-social, disgruntled and hardcore communal minded
element, implement prohibitory orders, strictly set up pickets at all 362 sensitive points, to pick up rumour mongers, to intensity foot and
mobile patrolling, to maintain communal harmony and to keep close
watch over the situation. On 14-03-2002, Shri Ashok Narayan received information about
the protection sought by some Muslim families residing in Baroda
City. These families had asked for RAF deployment between 14-03-
2002 to 16-03-2002 for their protection, in view of the VHP
programme fixed for 15-03-2002. This information was passed on by
him to the DGP, Collector & CP, Baroda City through separate DO
letters dated 14-03-2002 with a request to look into the security of
these specific areas. On 15-03-2002, Shri Ashok Narayan had written DO letter to
Shri K. Chakrayarthi, the then DGP in the context of several
discussions with the Chief Secretary regarding the need to activate
the intelligence machinery in the prevailing situation. It was further
mentioned that CM had already given several suggestions to
facilitate unearthing of antisocial and antinational links. He also,
mentioned that in the prevailing situation of general tension, it was
even more necessary to take concrete steps in order to prevent
worsening of the situation. Shri Ashok Narayan had suggested to DCP
to constitute a task force involving Shri R.C. Mehta, Shri R.B.
Sreekumar and Shri G.C. Raiger to work out a suitable plan within
about 3 days. Shri P.S. Shah, the then Addl. Secretary (L&O) has further
stated that on 21-03-2002, he sent a crash wireless to all CsP, Range
IGPs, DMs and all SsP, in which he had emphasised the need to keep
a close watch over communal situation in the light of the festivals of
Mohharram, Holi/Dhuleti and Good Friday to be celebrated on 25-
03-2002, 28-03-2002 and 29-03-2002 respectively by different
communities of the society. In the light of highly surcharged and
tense atmosphere prevailing in the State, it was further emphasised
upon the jurisdictional officers that HSC/SSC examination were also
being held in all over the state (except 5 cities) and therefore, special
attention should be paid to the sensitive areas and places, which had
recently witnesses communal violence. All the jurisdictional officers
were also advised to make foolproof bandobast on the eve of
Mohharram i.e. Qattal ki rat and during Tazia processions.
Instructions were also given to all the aforesaid officers to remain
present at their headquarters and closely supervise all the 363 arrangements for maintenance of public order and communal
harmony under their jurisdiction. Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home), Shri P.S. Shah, the
then Addl. Secretary (L&O) and Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP
have stated that in addition to the aforesaid references, a number of
complaints/representations were received
personally/telephonically, for which immediate, necessary action
was taken by them over telephone, for which no records are available.
According to them, after 72 hours, the situation was gradually
coming under control though even subsequently stray incidents of
violence were reported from different parts of the State for a few
days. However, the Panchayat elections were held in March-April,
2002 peacefully, and the Haj-Pilgrims who had returned from
pilgrimage were safely escorted to their respective places without
any untoward incident. The fact that the festivals like Maha-
Shivratri, Holi, Good Friday and the religious function of Mohharram,
as well as SSCI-/HSC examination passed off peacefully in March,
2002 would go to show that the State was returning to normalcy fast. Keeping in view the aforesaid facts, it is established that the
Godhra train burning incident took place on 27-02-2002 between
07.47 and 08.20 hrs. There is evidence available on record to show
that immediately the State machinery, was put on the high alert and
this was communicated to all District authorities and Commissioners
of Police. The first alert message of 27-02-2002 from the Home
Department covered the need to take precautionary measures
including adequate police bandobast and preventive measures
including issuance of prohibitory ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 425

orders depending upon the local situation. It was instructed that
antisocial and hardcore communal elements should be dealt with
family. It was also impressed upon the district administration that
when the dead bodies arrive in the respective native places, there
was a likelihood of heightened communal tension and hence
bandobast should be arranged, especially for the funeral procession.
All Commissioners of Police DMs and SsP should remain in HQ and
closely monitor the situation. This alert message of 27-02-2002 was followed by another
message from Home Department on 28-02-2002, to all concerned to
round-up anti-social and known communal elements under the
preventive laws. It was further instructed that mobile patrolling
should be intensified and adequate protection should also be
provided at places of worship and that effective action should be
taken to disperse unruly mob, unlawful assemblies, using whatever
force necessary. It was also made clear that anti-social elements
indulging in violence and bent upon jeopardizing communal harmony
must be controlled firmly. Another message dated 28-02-2002,
impressed upon all concerned officers to maintain adequate
bandobast for 01-03-2002, being Friday and the day of Namaz for the
Muslims. Adequate bandobast was directed to be provided to all
sensitive areas and curfew was ordered to be strictly enforced. On
28-02-2002, another message was sent to the Addl. DG (Int.) to
maintain adequate bandobast for the security of returning Haj
Pilgrims at their point of entry. It appears that realising the
seriousness of the situation, the Chief Minister took a decision on
28-02-2002, to call the Army to assist the civil administration in
maintenance of law & order in the State. Accordingly, the Chief
Minister spoke to the Union Home Minister on 28-02-2002 around
1400 hrs and orally requested him to depute the Army to control the
law & order situation. This was followed by a fax message sent by
Shri K. Nityanandam, the then Secretary (Home) to the Secretary,
Ministry of Defence, Govt of India on 28-02-2002 at 1430 hrs.
Unfortunately, the Army was not locally available as it had been
deployed on the borders, as a result of which the Army had to be
airlifted to Ahmedabad and could be effectively deployed from 01-03-
2002 onwards only. It is established that on 28-02-2002, events in the aftermath of
the gruesome Godhra episode of 27-02-2002 unfolded and violent
incidents were reported from many parts of the State. A high level
review of the situation at the Chief Minister's level was made on 28-
02-2002 afternoon. The meeting was attended by the Chief Minister,
MoS (Home), the DGP and Addl. DG (Int.). By 1430 hrs, the Chief
Minister had made an oral request to the Union Home Minister for
Army deployment. At about the same time, an official request was
sent in writing by Shri K. Nityanandam, the then Secretary (Home)
to the Secretary, Ministry of Defence to make the Army available for
internal security duties. The Chief Minister publicly announced at
1600 hrs. in a press conference the decision of the State Govt. to call 365 the Army. Efforts were also made to requisition available Army
personnel in the cantonment area of Ahmedabad, but no force was
available. It was understood that withdrawing the Army at such
critical juncture when war like situation existed with the neighbour
needed a high level decision at the Centre. This decision to withdraw
the Army and deploy in Gujarat has immediately taken at highest
level in the Centre at the request of Gujarat Govt. Army personnel were airlifted from forward positions and they
started arriving by the midnight of 28-02-2002. It may be mentioned
here that 40 aircrafts were used to airlift Army personnel to
Ahmedabad. The first plane, landed at Ahmedabad on 28-02-2002
mid night and the last one on 01-03-2002 at 2300 hrs. The
deployment of the Army also required additional logistic support by
the civil administration in the form of Executive Magistrates,
vehicles, Liaison officer, mobile phones, guides and maps and same
were promptly made available to them. The deployment of Army
commenced by 1100 hrs after a high level meeting with the Chief
Minister and the Union Defence Minister along with senior officials
of the Army and the state administration. The Army was deployed in
the affected areas of Ahmedabad City i.e. Paldi, Juhapura, Vejalpur,
Shahpur, Bapunagar, Rakhial, Gomtipur, Meghaninagar; Dariapur,
Kalupur, Naroda and Dani Limda. It may thus be seen that 9 columns
of Army were deployed on 01-03-2002. Later on, 2 columns of the
Army were moved to Vadodara on 01-03-2002 at 1830 hrs, 2 columns
despatched to Godhra on 02-03-2002, and they reached Godhra at
0130 hrs, 2 columns moved to Rajkot on 02-03-2002 at 1100 hrs. It
may be mentioned here that while the situation in the other parts of
the Gujarat was grave, cities like Bhavnagar and Surat were initially
unaffected. However, as incidents of violence were reported from
Bhavnagar and Surat, Army columns were moved to Surat on 03-03-
2002 at 1100 hrs and to Bhavnagar on 03-03-2002 at 2235 hrs. In all
26 Army columns had been deployed at the peak of riots in the State. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 426

 In addition, the Govt. of India had approved the deployment of
CPMFs and therefore, 6 Coys of CISF, 11 Coys of BSF, 5 Coys of
Border Wing Home-guards and 4 Coys of RAF were deployed in the 366 State by 03-03-2002. The State Govt. had also made a request on 28-
02-2002, to the neighbouring States of Maharasthra, Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh to spare the services of their Armed Reserve Police
companies. However, only Maharashtra responded by sending 2 Coys
of SRP, whereas the Govt. of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh
expressed their inability to spare any police force due to the internal
commitments. It may thus be seen that there was no delay,
whatsoever in requisitioning the Army and its deployment by the
State as and when they realised. on 28-02-2002 afternoon that the
situation was going beyond control. Significantly, Union Defence
Minister arrived at Ahmedabad on 28.02.2002 night to ensure that
Army formations take their positions without any delay. Shri G. Subha Rao, the then Chief Secretary, who had gone
aboard, was recalled and he arrived on 01-03-2002. The Chief
Secretary had issued a clear cut message to all the jurisdictional
officers to take effective action including implementation of
Communal Riot Scheme, to act in a decisive, prompt and effective
manner to control the situation and not to hesitate to use whatever
force was necessary to bring the situation under control, if any life
and property were threatened. It was impressed by him that firing be
resorted to as per situation and if the situation deteriorates beyond
a point, besides imposing curfew even shoot at sight orders should
be given to control the unruly mobs. This wireless message from the
Chief Secretary gives clear cut indication and mind of the State that
the riots had to be controlled at any cost. Frantic messages were sent by the Home Department on 01-03-
2002 to 06-03-2002 and specific instructions were given to the effect
that the riots had to be controlled and all steps should be taken to
restore normalcy and peace in the State. In addition, 14 messages
were sent by the Home Department, which included measures, to be
taken for ensuing festivals, arrival of Hajj pilgrims and their security,
Jumma Namaz, Ram-Navami, Moharrum, Holi-Dhuleti and Good
Friday. These messages also included the necessary precautions to
be taken in the issues relating to symbolic or actual bhumi pooja
proposed to be performed by the Ramsevaks on 15-03-2002, about
which the specific orders had been issued by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India to maintain status-quo. Further investigation has also disclosed that the Chief
Secretary and Addl. Chief Secretary (Home) had arranged for two
video conferences with the CP, DMs, SP and other concerned officers 367 on 04-03-2002 and 11-03-2002, in which important items on agenda
were as follows:- Shri R.B. Sreekumar has further stated that he had sent another
report on the then prevailing law & order situation vide his letter dated
20-08-2002. According to Shri Sreekumar, even at the time this letter was
sent, the communal tension continued and the communal gap between
Hindus and Muslims had widened to an unprecedented degree. It was
further mentioned that there was latent communal tension in most of the
places where incidents were reported and that any minor issue involving
members of minority and majority community would reignite communal
passions resulting in clashes, as had been witnessed in Dhoraji (Rajkot
District) on 17-08-2002. It was further mentioned by Shri Sreekumar that
large sections of the minorities being the major victims of the recent riots
were still to develop adequate faith in Administration, Police Department
and Criminal Justice System. This letter was replied by Shri Ashok
Narayan, the then ACS (Home) on 09-09-2002, in which he had clearly
informed Shri Sreekumar that his assessment of law & order situation
was not in tune with the feedback received from other agencies. Shri
Ashok Narayan further mentioned that some apprehension and a feeling
of insecurity amongst the members of the minority community was
understandable in isolated pockets from where incidents were reported,
but the same do not indicate the feelings of insecurity anymore. Shri
Ashok Narayan has also mentioned that Dhoraji's incident was an
isolated incident and that communal incidents had come down drastically
during the last few months. Shri Ashok Narayan disagreed with the
views of Shri Sreekumar on the ground that no broad based inputs
were relied upon by him before arriving at a conclusion. Shri R.B. Sreekumar had sent another report regarding the
emerging law & order vide his letter dated 28-08-2002. In this letter, he
had assessed that the social relations between the Hindus and Muslims
remained highly strained including the traditional communal pockets as
well as new areas where the riots had taken place, due to various reasons.
Shri Sreekumar had suggested that District Magistrates/Commissioners
of Police/Superintendent of Police be suitably advised to ensure that the
organizers of the public function/political campaign should avoid
projecting communal issues that might widen the rift between the two
communities and also to abide by the conditions of the license/
permission granted to them. Shri K. Chakravarthi has stated that Shri
R.B. Sreekumar had given same suggestions and most of it pertained to
the Revenue Department and other departments. As far as police 378 department was concerned, he (Shri Chakravarthi) had given
directions based on his suggestions. In view of the aforesaid position, it cannot be said that no
action was taken by the Govt. on the assessment of situation made
by Shri R.B. Sreekumar. Of course, there was difference of opinion
between Shri R.B. Sreekumar and the Home Department on certain
issues. However, the fact remains that Shri Sreekumar appeared on
the scene 40 days after the riots and remained ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 432

posted as Addl. DG (In1.) for a little more that five months, and
therefore, whatever has been claimed by him has no direct bearing
the issue i.e. events of 27/28-02-2002 or subsequently in March
2002. > Observation made by Ld. Amicus Curiae: Further investigation revealed that Shri M.L. Nalvaya, the then
Mamlatdar & Executive Magistrate prepared a letter addressed to Dr.
Jaydeep Patel of VHP, in which he had mentioned that 54 dead bodies
were being sent through five trucks as detailed below: Shri Hasmukh T. Patel of VHP had acknowledged the receipt of
dead bodies. It may be mentioned here that the handing over of the 380 bead bodies to their legal heirs/guardians was the duty of the railway
police, which had registered a case in connection with this incident. On his further examination Shri Nalvaya has stated that these
dead bodies were handed over officially to Shri Jaydeep Patel and
Shri Hasmukh T. Patel of VHP as per the instructions given by Smt.
Jayanti S. Ravi, District Magistrate, Godhra and Late B.M. Damor,
ADM, Godhra. Shri M.L Nalvaya has filed an affidavit, before Nanavati
Commission of Inquiry to this ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 433

effect on 05-09-2002. However, Smt. Jayanti Ravi has stated that no
such instructions were given to Shri Nalvaya to hand over the dead
bodies to Shri Jaydeep Patel or Shri Hasmukh T. Patel of VHP and
that Shri Jaydeep Patel was merely to accompany the dead bodies to
Ahmedabad. Shri Jaydeep Patel visited Godhra on 27-02-2002 and was present
at the Collectorate. Further investigation revealed that as per the call
detail records of mobile phone no. 9825023887 of Shri Jaydeep Patel, he
reached Godhra on 27-02-2002 around 1248 hrs and remained there till
2358 hrs. At Godhra, he had made/received calls to/from Shri Gordhan
Zadafia at the latter's mobile phone no. 9825049145. All these calls had
been made/received between 2003 hrs and 2113 hrs. It is, therefore, quite
possible that Shri Gordhan Zadafia, the then MoS (Home), might have
instructed the police authorities to allow Shri Jaydeep Patel to accompany
the dead bodies. The aforesaid call detail records establish that Shri
Jaydeep Patel remained at Godhra till about 2358 hrs on 27-02-2002. Shri Jaydeep Patel has stated that he did not meet Shri Narendra
Modi, Chief Minister. Since most of the persons, who had died in Godhra
carnage were the karsevaks of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, he met some local
administrative and police officials, whose names he could not recollect at
this stage, and requested them to hand over the dead bodies of the
Karsevaks to him for onward transportation to Ahmedabad. The district
officials accede to his request and accordingly a letter was prepared by
Mamlatdar and Executive Magistrate, Godhra in his name specifying the
details of the dead-bodies and the number of trucks in the same. Shri
Hasmukh T. Patel of VHP, who had accompanied him, acknowledge the 381 receipt of these dead-bodies as per his signature appering on the list. It
may be mentioned here that 58 persons had dies in this incident out of
which 4 persons were identified at Godhra railway station itself by their
relatives. The dead-bodies of these four persons were handed over to their
relatives after identification. Five trucks were arranged by the district
administration for the transportation of the dead bodies. Shri Jaydeep
Patel has stated to have met the lady collector of Godhra around 23.30 or
24.00 hours. A police escort had accompanied the dead bodies from
Godhra and on the way to Ahmedabad the escorts from the concerned
districts joined. The convoy reached Sola Civil Hospital, Sola, Ahmedabad
between 0330 hours to 04.00 hours on 28.02.2002. At Sola Civil Hospital,
a lady doctor, PI Shri Lathia of Sola Police station, Shri Prajapati, Deputy
Collector, Collector and Mamlatdar were present. There were several other
administrative and police officials present there, whose names he does
not recollect. He handed over the letter to Shri Prajapati, Deputy Collector.
Thereafter, the police and administrative officials got busy with the
preparation of panchnama and other papers. Further investigation revealed that the relatives of the persons,
who had died in the Godhra carnage, were also present in the
hospital. Accordingly, 35 persons were identified and their dead
bodies handed over to their relatives by about 1300 hrs on 28-02-
2002 by the police after obtaining the receipts from them. It may be
mentioned here that 25 dead bodies were claimed by the residents
of Ahmedabad, two (2) by the residents of Kadi, Mehsana, five (5) by
the residents of Anand, two (2) by the residents of Khedbramha,
Sabarkantha and one (1) from Rajkot. The photographs and DNA
samples of the remaining unidentified 19 dead bodies were taken by
the hospital authorities. These 19 unidentified dead bodies were
cremated on 28-02-2002 evening, at Gota cremation ground nearer
to the Sola Civil Hospital by the District Administrative and Police
officers with the help of Surpanch of Gota village. The cremation was
completed by about 1830 hrs on 28-02-2002. Shri Narendra Modi, Chief Minister had earlier stated that Shri
Jaydeep Patel, the then VHP General Secretary was known to him.
However, he does not remember to have met him at Godhra. According to
Shri Modi, after the decision was taken to transport the dead bodies to
Ahmedabad, it was the duty of the District Administration to chalk out
the modalities for its transportation. It may thus be seen that the journey from Godhra to Ahmedabad
started around midnight and the dead bodies reached Sola Civil Hospital 382 sometime between 0330 to 0400 hrs and there was no one on the highway
at that point of time in the night to see them. Further, though a letter had
been addressed by Shri M. L. Nalvaya in the name of Shri Jaydeep Patel
of VHP and the dead bodies were acknowledged by Shri Hasmukh T. Patel
of VHP, yet the dead bodies were escorted by the police upto Sola Civil
Hospital, Ahmedabad situated on the outskirts of Ahmedabad City. At
Sola Civil Hospital, Shri Jaydeep Patel handed over the letter to the
hospital authorities and the local police as well as the hospital authorities
took charge of the dead bodies. Subsequently, 35 dead bodies were
handed over to the legal heirs/guardians of the deceased by ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 434

the police after preparing the panchnama and documentation. The 19
unidentified dead bodies were cremated on the same evening by the local
administration and police authorities at Gota cremation ground nearby
with the help of Sarpanch of Gota village after retaining their DNA
samples. Subsequently, 12 dead bodies could be identified after
conducting DNA tests, while the remaining seven (7) remained
unidentified. The above facts would go to establish that though a letter had
been addressed by Mamalatdar, Godhra to Shri Jaydeep Patel of VHP,
yet the dead bodies were escorted by the police from Godhra to
Ahmedabad, where the same were taken charge of by the hospital
authorities, District Administrative and Police Officers and handed
over to the kith and kin of deceased persons after taking proper
receipt. Shri M.L. Nalvaya, Mamalatdar had acted in an irresponsible
manner by issuing a letter in the name Shri Jaydeep Patel in token
of having handed over the dead bodies which were case properly, and
therefore, the Govt. of Gujarat is being requested to initiate
departmental proceedings against him. ➢ Observations made by Ld. Amicus Curiae: The positioning of 2 Cabinet Ministers having nothing to do with
the home portfolio in the Office of DGP and the State police Control
Room respectively is another circumstance which reflects that there
was a direct instruction from the Chief Minister. Though Shri 383 Jadeja says that he had gone to the DGP's office on instructions of
Shri Gordhan Zadafia, MoS (Home) this is highly unbelievable. It is
obvious that the Chief Minister had positioned these 2 Ministers in
highly sensitive places which should not have been done. Infact,
these 2 Ministers could have taken active steps to defuse the riots,
but they did nothing, which speaks volumes about the decision to
let the riots happen. It does not appear that these 2 Ministers
immediately called CM and told him about the situation at Gulberg
and other places. SIT merely relied upon the statement of the police officers to
conclude that these 2 Ministers did not give any instructions to
Police department, but it appears highly unlively that 2 Cabinet
Ministers of the Government of Gujarat would have not given some
kind of directions when CM had directed them to remain present.
It is obvious that the 2 Ministers were fully aware of the developing
situation in Gulberg Society, Naroda Patiya etc, in Ahmedabad City.
They were duty bound to convey the situation to the Chief Minister
and were required to do everything possible to save loss of lives. If
the stand of CM that these 2 Ministers were positioned so as to
effectively control the law and order situation is correct, then there
would have been a far quicker action to control the riots in Gulberg
Society and Naroda Patiya atleast. Result of further investigation: Regarding the statement made to the media about post Godhra
riots by citing Newton's law that every action has equal and opposite
reaction, Shri Narendra Modi had stated that the Times of India had
published a news item on 03.03.2002, purportedly as though he had 396 given an interview to them. According to Shri Modi, the truth is that
nobody had met him in this regard. He had further stated that the
falsehood of his so-called justification "Action-Reaction Theory" is
evident from this fact. According to Shri Modi, the State Govt. issued
a denial with regard to his not having given any interview and the
same was belatedly published in a remote corner of the newspaper.
He had also stated that it had been his considered opinion that
violence can not be replied by violence and he had appealed for
peace. As per Shri Modi's version, he had not and would never justify
any action or reaction by a mob against innocents. He had denied all
allegations in this regard. The recommendations made in Chart ‘B' by the Ld. Amicus
Curiae vis-a-vis comments of SIT are given below:- rewarded for their indicate that 13 officers CP, Sector-Il and Shri
support during the post had been rewarded with P.B. Gondia, the then
Godhra riots. postings for their support DCP, Zone- IV it does
 to CM. However, the SIT not appear to be a
 had concluded that the simple case of mere
 conduct of Shri M.K. dereliction of duty,
 Tandon, the then Jt.CP, section 304A IPC would
 Sector-Il, Ahmedabad, be squarely attracted in
 was not satisfactory and such a case. therefore, Departmental 2. In so far as
 Action be taken against
 promotion of other IAS
 them. and IPS officers are
 concerned, the view
 taken by SIT seems to
 be acceptable. IX. The allegation is that 1. The SIT has concluded 1. The investigative
the Govt. of Gujarat has that the trials in both the
 agencies let off the
been seriously indicted- cases are over. Some accused in Bilkisbano
by this Hon'ble Court due accused have beencase. If the CBI had not
to fresh investigation in convicted and somestepped in, the accused
Bilkisbano case by CBI accused have beenwould have gone
and retrial of Best Bakery acquitted and the
 unpunished. Similarly,
Case outside the State of appeals are pendingin Best Bakery case, it
Gujarat. before the High Court. appears that the
 prosecution was done 2. The SIT has
 in a shoddy manner to
 recommended that the
 protect the accused. into by the Investigating Branch intentionally did within a time bound
Officers Gulberg not examine the cell manner. XXV: The allegation is The SIT has found this 1. Shri M.K. Tandon,
that the police at Gulberg allegation to be incorrect. the then Jt. CP, Sector- ------------------------------ (i) Shri M. K. Tandon and Shri P.B. Gondia be prosecuted u/s 304A
IPC (ii) The SIT may examine the role of the Investigating Agency in
the Bilkisbano rape case and make recommendations to this Hon'ble
Court, whether it reveals commission of any criminal offence or
misconduct. (iii) The SIT may be directed to look into the role of the Crime
Branch officers, namely DCP Vanzara and ACP Chudasama as to their
role in the investigation of Gulberg Society and Naroda Patiya cases. (iv) The SIT may examine the role of the prosecuting agency in Best
Bakery case and recommend suitable action against those who are
responsible. (v) SIT may look into the role of police officials in the Gulberg
Society and Naroda Patiya cases (apart from those who are already
facing charges). SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS IN RELATION TO GOVERNMENT OF
GUJARAT. (i) Departmental action, as suggested by the SIT, be taken against
K. Kumaraswamy, the then Jt. CP Baroda City and Ramjibhai Pargi,
former ACP. (ii) As recommended by the SIT, departmental action be taken against
Shri Tarun Barot, Inspector and Shri G.S. Singhal, ACP Crime Branch for
faulty investigation of the riots cases. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 444

 The aforesaid recommendations of the Ld. Amicus Curiae would
show that he concurred with the findings of SIT with regard to Allegations
No.lX & XXIII. Further, as regards Allegation No. XV, Ld. Amicus Curiae
has opined that the issue may not survive because of the intervention of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court, whereby Public Prosecutors have been
appointed in an independent manner. The recommendations made by Ld Amicus Curiae in Chart - 'B'
have been examined and the comments on the same were as follows:- Page: 445 Police Act against 5 named individuals and unknown others. 70 persons
were charge-sheeted in 8 charge-sheets. The case is presently under trail. Facts/Sequence of events establish during investigation: Similarly, no meeting of SHOs/chalking out of law and order plan was
done by Shri P. B.Gondia, DCP. (C) Shri Tandon was allotted 1 Coy of State Reserve Police (SRP) for the
Bandh day, which was distributed among 3 DCsP (1 Platoon each). During
his movements on 28.02.2002. Shri Tandon was having a Striking Force
comprising 2 Police Sub-Inspectors and a few armed men in 2 vehicles.
(D) In the morning of 28.02.2002, Shri M. K. Tandon left for Dariapur
P.S. as it was considered communally very sensitive. On the way around
1035 hours, he received a wireless message from Assistant Commissioner
of Police, 'G' division requesting Police Control Room to send more vehicles
to Naroda Patiya area. In view of this message, he changed his route
towards Naroda Patiya. En route, he inquired about location of Sr. PI of
Meghaninagar P.S. and after having learnt that he had gone to Gulberg
Society due to some problem there, he proceeded towards the same and
reached there around 1130 hours. In the meantime, Shri P. B. Gondia, DCP received information
regarding trouble at Naroda Patiya/ Naroda Gaam and reached Naroda
Patiya at about 1100 hours. Inspector Shri Mysorewala of Naroda P.S, 406 and ACP Shri M. T. Rana were already there to deal with mob which had
gathered in large numbers. (E) Shri M K. Tandon found a mob of around 1,000 Hindu rioters
around Gulberg Society and ordered for bursting of tear gas shells and
lathi charge by his Striking Force. Official records suggest that six tear
gas shells were fired by the Striking Force attached to Shri Tandon at that
time. As a result, the mob got dispersed in the lanes/by-lanes near
Gulberg Society. It is believed that Shri Tandon also met late Shri Ahesan
Jafri, ex-MP and certain other residents of Gulberg Society who were
assured of strengthening the police presence there. Though witnesses
claim that Late Ahesan Jafri had met the Commissioner, investigation has
revealed that Shri P.C. Pande, the then CP, Ahmedabad City had not
visited the Gulberg Society at that time. So most likely, Late Jafri had met
Shri M. K. Tandon, the then Jt. CP, Sector-Il. However, Shri Tandon
denies this fact. Around 1150 hours Shri M. K. Tandon left for Naroda
Patiya. (F) On reaching Naroda Patiya area around 1220 hours Shri Tandon
found the situation to be very explosive and requested Commissioner of
Police for imposition of curfew in Naroda Patiya. The Commissioner of
Police, Ahmedabad City agreed with the request made by Shri Tandon and
curfew was imposed at 1230 hrs.
(G) Significantly, Shri P. B. Gondia received a massage at 1235 hrs from
Sr. PI, Meghaninagar about the grave situation at Gulberg Society where
a mob of around 5,000 had reportedly gathered. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 446

(H) Around 1240 hours, Shri M. K. Tandon left Naroda Patiya for
Dariapur Police Station area ostensibly on the ground that it was
communally hyper sensitive. Incidentally, Shri Tandon did not take any
concrete action, at Naroda Patiya except requesting for imposition of
curfew. As per call detail records he was in Bapunagar-Rakhial area
between 1241 hrs and 1325 hrs. Further, he remained in Dariapur and
Kalupur Police Stations area between 1351 hours and 1542 hours.
(I) At about 1220 hrs and 1230 hrs, Sr. PI Erda of Meghaninagar P.S.
sent alarming messages to Police Control Room about the critical
situation at Gulberg Society requesting for reinforcements. (J) Around 1405 hrs, Shri Tandon sent a message to Control Room to
send additional force for shifting Late Ahesan Jafri and others who had
been surrounded by a mob in the Gulberg Society. Shri Tandon did not
bother to inquire about the latest position till 1545 hrs when he asked
Control Room to check-up as to whether there was any incident relating
to loss of life in Gulberg Society. By that time, the Society had been set
ablaze and lot of lives including that of Late Ahesan Jafri had been lost.
(K) Shri. P. B. Gondia sent Shri V. S. Gohil, IInd Police Inspector,
Naroda P.S. to Naroda Gaam around 1300 hrs due to critical situation
there. He also ordered police firing in Naroda Patiya area, which resulted
in death of 1 Hindu and 1 Muslim miscreant. As per police records, during
this period, 48 rounds (22 rounds of 9 mm + 26 rounds of 303) as well as
95 tear gas shells were fired by the Striking Force of Shri P.B. Gondia. He
left Naroda Patiya at 14:20 hrs ostensibly to go to Pithadiya Bambha
(Dariapur P.S.) in view of some trouble there. (However, in a signed
statement made earlier in point of time to Shri A.K Malhotra, Member, SIT
during inquiry, he has claimed that he had left for Hotel Moti Manor
owned by a Muslim and Rosary School in Shahibaug area, which were
being set on fire). (L) On way to Pithadiya Bambha, Shri P. B. Gondia received
instructions from CP Ahmedabad City at 1516 hrs to go to Gulberg Society
and he reached there sometime around 1600 hrs. Shri M.K. Tandon
arrived at Gulberg Society thereafter and arranged for prisoner vans,
ambulances etc. for safe shifting of 150 survivors of Gulberg Society to
Shahibaug police station. (M) Late after the departure of Shri M. K. Tandon, Shri P. B. Gondia,
ACP Shri M. T. Rana and PI Shri K. K. Mysorevala from Naroda Patiya
area, a major incident of rioting took place between 1800 hrs and 1830
hrs there in which 85 persons were killed and 13 persons went missing.
Five VHP activists were named as accused in the FIR.
(N) Shri M. K. Tandon was in touch with certain accused persons of
Naroda Patiyal/Naroda Gaam cases. He had received 2 telephone calls on
01.03.2002 at 1137 hrs for 250 seconds and 1256 hrs for 161 seconds
from accused in Naroda Patiya case Jaydeep Patel of VHP and 2 calls on
01.03.2002 at 1458 hrs for 32 seconds and 1904 hrs for 61 seconds from
accused Dr. Mayaben Kolnani. (O) Shri P. B. Gondia was also in touch with some accused persons of
Naroda Patiya/Naroda Gaam cases. He had received 3 calls on his Mobile
phone from Dr. Mayaben Kolnani on 28.02.2002, 01.03.2002 and 408 02.03.2002 at 1039 hrs, 1339 hrs and 1249 hrs respectively. He had also
received 3 calls on 28.02.2002 at 1140 hrs, 1152 hrs and 1220 hrs, 2
calls on 01.03.2002 at 1004 hrs and 1135 hrs and 2 calls on 02.03.2002
at 1156 hrs and 1848 hrs from accused Shri Jaydeep Patel. Role of Shri M.K. Tondon: Notably, all these calls were incoming as far as Shri P. B. Gondia is
concerned. As Dr. Kodnani was the local MLA and Shri Jaydeep Patel, a
local leader, the reason given by them is probable. Shri Gondia claimed
that 7 rioters had been killed as a result of police firing ordered by him.
Police records show that 110 rounds of bullets and 183 teargas shells
were fired by the police personnel under him on 28.02.2002 though it did
not show any firing resorted to personally. Furthermore, from Naroda
Patiya he went towards Pithadiya Bambha from where some incidents of
rioting ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 448

had been reported. In any case, he was instrumental in controlling a riot
situation at Moti Manor Hotel and Rosary School on the way. Investigation has further revealed that he had left Naroda Patiya at
1420 hrs despite the fact that a huge of mob of Hindu and Muslim rioters
had gathered there while the curfew was in force. His leaving the location
for Pithaliya Bambha was totally unjustified, especially when there was
no information of any situation being graver there than at Naroda Patiya.
In case, Shri Gondia realized that he was in a position to leave the
location, then he should have gone to Gulberg Society and not to Pithaliya
Bambha. Shri Tandon has stated that on receipt of a message from Shri
K.G. Erda at 1445 hrs that the Gulberg society had been surrounded by
a mob and was about the set fire to the same, he had directed Shri PB.
Gondia to reach Gulberg society immediately. Though this fact has been
mentioned by Shri M K. Tandon in his affidavit filed before the Nanavati
Commission in July, 2002, yet he has not been able to explain as to how
this direction was given to Shri Gondia as there is no Control Room 411 message or mobile phone call to Shri Gondia at this point of time.
However, Shri Gondia has denied having received any such instructions
from Shri Tandon. As indicated earlier, sufficient evidence has not come on record
regarding police involvement of these two police officers in the
conspiracy/abetment of the offences. However, they demonstrated
profound lack of judgment that seriously undermined their credibility and
damaged their effectiveness in dealing with the situations. All the three
major incidents took place in area under their control and they left the
locations for handling by the junior officers. They did not take any
preventive action on 27.02.2002, while any police officer worth the name
could imagine the seriousness of the situation. Ld. Amicus Curiae has recommended prosecution of aforesaid two
officers u/s 304A IPC. In view of this recommendation, available evidence
was analysed to assess whether the inaction on the part of these two
officers, was of the nature of Criminal negligence or professional
misconduct. The basic requirements for prosecution under the above section are
that the acts (including omission) must be rash or negligent. Here the
issue is whether the acts of Shri M.K.Tandon and Shri P.B. Gondia would
amount to criminal negligence justifying their prosecution. Their actions
need to be seen and analysed in the proper perspective and situation
prevalent on that day. The following actions would analyse the role played
by Shri M.K. Tandon. a. In the morning of 28.02.2002 he had left for Dariyapur Police
Station (communally hyper-sensitive). On the way at 1035 hrs, he had
heard a wireless message of ACP 'G' Division requesting control to send
more vehicles to Naroda Patiya. In view of this message, he proceeded
towards Naroda Patiya. En-route he asked location of Senior Police
Inspector of Meghaninagar Police Station and after having learnt that he
was at Gulberg Society, he proceeded there and reached Gulberg Society
at about 1130 hrs. At that time, a mob of around 1000 Hindu rioters had
gathered there. Shri Tandon had ordered bursting of tear gas shells and
lathi charge through his striking force. As a result of this action, the mob
was dispersed in the lanes and by-lanes near Gulberg Society.
b. Around 1200 hrs. Shri Tandon left for Naroda Patiya. At 1220 hrs
he had made a phone call to Commissioner of Police and requested for
imposition of curfew in Naroda Patiya. Curfew was imposed in Naroda
Patiya area at 1230 hrs. 412 c. He had informed Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad City
regarding the situation at Naroda Pariya through a phone call at 1237
hrs. He also informed CP regarding the funeral procession of Kar-sevaks.
The Commissioner of Police instructed him to go to Dariapur, as the
Dariapur Police Station is communally hypersensitive. As ACP of
Dariapur was on leave and presence of senior officer was required there,
he had left for Dariapur. Therefore, his leaving the spot for a known
communally hyper-sensitive place does not amount to criminal negligence
though it could be an error of judgment/ poor appreciation of the
situation. d. During the investigation of offence at Naroda Patiya, it has been
established that the incident took place after 1800 hrs. When Shri Tandon
left Naroda Patiya around 1240 hrs, then Senior Police Inspector of
Naroda Police Station along with his force, ACO‘G' Division along with his
force, DCP Zone IV and his striking force and one platoon of State Reserve
Police were ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 449

present there. Therefore, it was not possible to envisage that such an
incident might take place at Naroda Patiya. e. Shri M.K Tandon has stated that first wireless message regarding
the situation at Gulberg, Society was received at 1414 hrs on his wireless
handset. He has further stated that he had not received the messages
passed by Senior Police Inspector of Megharinagar P.S. at 1225 hrs and
1238 hrs as the situation was very noisy in Naroda Patiya area and he
was using public address system of his vehicle for declaration of curfew
and ordering the mob to get dispersed. f. Regarding the situation at Gulberg Society, Shri M.K. Tandon has
stated that he was informed by an unknown Muslim individual that late
Ahesan Jafri, Ex-MP and other Muslims of Gulberg Society need to be
shifted immediately. However, his enquiries with Control Room revealed
that additional force of two DySsP, one inspector and one section of CISF
had been sent to Gulberg Society, as per orders of Commissioner of Police.
g. Shri M.K. Tandon has claimed that he had called Commissioner of
Police on his mobile phone at 1425 hrs and discussed the situation. As
per his statement, taking the communal sensitivity of Dariapur in 413 consideration, leaving Dariapur without any senior police officer could
have lead to drastic consequences as ACP was on leave and DCP was busy
in handling the law & order situation elsewhere. Following actions by Shri P.B.Gondia are relevant to decide as
to whether he was liable for criminal negligence:- c. At 1516 hrs, he had received instructions from Commissioner of
Police, Ahmedabad City to go to Gulberg Society where he reached around
1600 hrs and took measures to disperse the mob and rescue the
survivors. d. During the investigation of the case, it has been established that the
incident at Naroda Patiya, in which major loss of lives took place occurred
after 1800 hrs, i.e., approximately four hours after Shri Gondia had left
the spot. In any case, the killings had taken place at a corner location in
the lane which was away from the main road where police personnel were
stationed and handling the mobs belonging to the two communities. In
view of this, there does not appear to be any direct nexus of these killings
with Shri P.B. Gondia, who had left the spot at about 1420 hrs.
e. On 28.02.2002, he had ordered firing of 110 rounds of bullets and
183 tear gas shells to disperse the rioters at different locations which lead
to killing of 7 rioters (including 6 Hindus). Section 304A means an act which is the immediate cause of death
and not an act or omission which can be said to be a remote cause of
death. It is necessary to show an immediate nexus between the wrongful
act of an accused and the injuries received by another. In order to
constitute the offence, the death should have been the direct result of a
rash and negligent act that must be proximate cause without intervention 414 of any third factor. Furthermore, in case of criminal negligence, it must
be gross and not which is merely an error of judgment or arises because
of defect of intelligence. Therefore, considering all the circumstances, evidence on
record and the defence available with the suspect police officers
namely Shri M.K.Tandon and Shri P.S. Gondia, it may not be viable
to prosecute them for the offence u/s 304-A IPC as proposed by Ld.
Amicus Curiae. It is worth mentioning here that inspite of best
efforts, no additional evidence (other than already ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 450

available) which could help in fixing, criminal liability u/s 304A IPC
of these two individuals could be brought on record during further
investigation However, the conduct of Shri M. K. Tandon, the then
Joint CP. Ahmedabad City (since retired) and Shri P. B. Gondia, the
then DCP, Ahmedabad City was unprofessional and unbecoming of
senior police officers. Observation made by Ld. Amicus Curiae: b. That Shri Sanjiv Bhatt submitted an affidavit of Shri K.D.
 Panth, Constable affirmed on 17.6.2011 supporting the
 version of Shri Bhatt about going to Chief Minister's residence
 on the night of 27.02.2002. c. That Shri Rahul Sharma, DIG submitted an analysis of the call
 records of senior police officers, which according to Shri
 Sharma corroborates the statement of Shri Bhatt.
d. That though Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has been contending that he
 would speak only when under a legal obligation to do so, his
 conduct after making a statement u/s 161 Cr.PC has not been
 that of a detached police officer, who is content with giving
 his version. e. That it does not appear very likely that a serving police officer
 would make such a serious allegation against Shri Narendra
 Modi, Chief Minister without some basis. f. That there is no documentary material of any nature
 whatsoever, which can establish that Shri Bhatt was not
 present in the meeting on 27.02.2002 and in the absence of
 the minutes of the meeting, there is again no documentary
 evidence is available, as to the participants in the meeting and
 what transpired at the said meeting. Therefore, it is the word
 of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt against the word of other officers senior
 to him. g. That it is difficult to accept that Shri Bhatt's statement is
 motivated because he has an axe to grind with the State Govt.
 over issues concerning his career and it may not be proper to
 disbelieve Shri Sanjiv Bhatt at this stage only because the
 other officers have not supported his statement.
h. That the delay in making the statement can not be the sole
 ground to disbelieve the statement at this stage especially in
 view of his explanation that as an Intelligence Officer, who was
 privy to a lot of sensitive information, he would make a
 statement only when he was under a legal obligation to do so.
i. That Shri G.C. Raiger, Addl. DG (Int) was on leave on ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 455

 27.02.2002 and DGP Shri K Chakravarthi does not state that
 he had gathered intelligence from the office of Shri Raiger.
 Further, Shri P.C. Upadhay, the then DCI (Political &
 Communal) was on leave on 27.02.2002 and Shri Bhatt was
 looking after his work. Also Shri Raiger has stated that Shri
 Bhatt had accompanied him in the past to meetings called by
 the Chief Minister, though he used to wait out side with files
 or information and therefore, it is quite possible that Shri
 Bhatt was directed to attend the meeting on 27.02.2002 at the
 residence of Chief Minister. j. That the phone calls records do not contradict the statement
 given by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt to the SIT and considering the
 important and emergent nature of the meeting, the relative
 juniority of Shri Bhatt need not have come in the way of his
 attending the meeting especially since Addl. DG (Int.) Shri
 Raiger was not available and Shri O.P. Mathur, the IGP
 (Security & Admn.) who was next in seniority was not called
 for the meeting and that this aspect was of little significance
 in the context of an emergency meeting called at short notice
 in response to an escalating situation. k. That the discrepancies about the exact language used or the
 time of meeting at the Chief Minister's residence at
 Gandhinagar on 28.02.2002, are inevitable considering the
 lapse of time. As regard the assessment of the role played by Shri M.K.
Tandon, the then Jt. CP, Sector-II, Ahmedabad City and Shri.
P.B.Gondia, the then DCP, Zone-IV, Ahmedabad City, the Ld. Amicus
Curiae has recommended that it would be appropriate for the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India to direct the trial Court to consider an
application u/s 319 Cr.PC filed by the victims in Gulberg Society
Case on the evidence brought before it and also consider the further
investigation report submitted by Shri Himanshu Shukla, DCP to the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India on 26.11.2010 and the statements
recorded by him and to pass appropriate orders in accordance with
law. The Ld. Amicus Curiae has also submitted to the Hon’ble
Supreme Court to consider whether an offence u/s 304A IPC is made
out. The Ld. Amicus Curiae has finally come to the conclusion that
since the SIT has conducted a statutory investigation u/s 173 (8) Cr.PC, the report is required to be filed in the Court and it is for the
competent Court to pass necessary orders after hearing the
concerned parties. However, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has
refrained from passing any order in this regard except that Chairman,
SIT has been directed to forward a Final Report along with entire
material collected by it to the Court, which had taken cognisance of
Cr.No.67/2002 u/s 173(2) Cr.PC. Shri Raju Ramachandran, the Ld. Amicus Curiae has agreed
with the findings of the SIT on all the major issues. Whereas the
complainant has made an allegation that Shri Narendra Modi, Chief
Minister sponsored the riots, the Ld. Amicus Curiae has come to the
conclusion that sufficient steps were taken by the Chief Minister to
control the riots. The Ld. Amicus Curiae did not allege any
conspiracy or abetment on the part of Chief Minister. He has further
agreed with the recommendations of SIT that the statement made by
Shri R. B. Sreekumar that Shri K. Chakravarthi had informed him
about the utterances made by the Chief Minister on 27.02.2002 night
would not be admissible as the same amounted to hearsay evidence
and therefore, inadmissible. He is also of the view that the
recommendations of the SIT about the steps taken by the Chief
Minister to control the riots may be accepted. He has also agreed
with the recommendations of chairman, SIT about handing over the
dead bodies of Godhra victims to Shri Jaydeep Patel. About the Chief
Minister's alleged statement on television on 01.03.2002, by
referring to the Newton's third Law of Motion also the Amicus has
agreed the recommendations of the SIT. Shri Raju Ramchandran, Ld. Amicus Curiae is of the view that
a prima facie case u/s 153 A(1)(a) & (b), 153B(1)(c), 166 and 505(2) IPC is made out against Shri Narenda Modi, Chief Minister. However,
he is further of the view that it would be for the Court of competent
jurisdiction to decide whether Shri Modi has to be summoned for any
or all of these offences or for any other offence. This
recommendations of Ld. Amicus Curiae is based on the sole
testimony of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security), who has
claimed to have attended a meeting called by the Chief Minister on
27.02.2002 night at his residence. It may be mentioned here that
seven (7) other participants of the said meeting have categorically
stated that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not attend the said meeting.
According to the Ld. Amicus Curiae, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt produced his
driver Shri Tarachand Yadav, a dismissed constable driver of Gujarat
Police along with his affidavit dated 17.06.2011, who supports, Shri
Bhatt's version that he had gone to the residence of the Chief
Minister on 27.02.2002. In this connection, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has
stated that he had gone along with Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then
DGP in the latter’s staff car to CM’s residence ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 456

from DGP’s office and that Shri K.D. Panth, the then AIO, State IB
followed him in his staff car driven by Shri Tarachand Yadav. The Ld.
Amicus Curiae has wrongly projected that Shri K.D. Panth, constable
has supported the version of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt about the latter's visit
to CM's residence on 27.02.2002, in as much as Shri K.D. Panth has
lodged a complaint on 17.06.2011 against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt for
wrongful confinement and also for getting an affidavit signed from
him under duress and threat and a case I CR No.149/2011 was
registered u/s 189 , 193 , 195 , 341 , 342 IPC has been registered
against Shri Sanjiv Bhatt on 22.06.2011 in Ghatlodia P.S,
Ahmedabad City. Shri Raju Ramchandran has relied upon a copy of
this affidavit which was handed over to him by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt on
17.06.2011. In fact, Shri K.D. Panth had sent a letter to Chairman,
SIT in this regard on 17.06.2011 itself along with another affidavit
sworn before the Dy. Collector, Gandhinagar to the effect that he was
on leave on 27.02.2002, and that his statement made before the SIT
in this regard was correct. It would not be out of place to mention 427 here that a copy of the said letter along with the affidavit submitted
to SIT by Shri K.D. Panth with its English translation were handed
over to Shri Raju Ramchandran by Shri Y.C. Modi, Member, SIT and
Shri A.K. Malhotra, Member, SIT personally on 21.06.2011, but the
same has been conveniently ignored by the Ld. Amicus Curiae. The
claim of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt has been dismissed by Shri K.
Chakravarthi, the then DGP, who has denied that Shri Bhatt
accompanied him in his staff car to CM's residence on 27.02.2002.
Significantly, log book of the vehicle of Shri Chakravarthi shows only
PSO accompanied him and there is no mention of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
in the same. Further, Shri Dilip Ahir and Shri Dharampal Yadav, the
then PSOs to the DGP and Shri Panchusinh Yadav and Shri Mangilal
Kala, the then drivers attached to the DGP have categorically denied
that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt ever travelled in DGP's staff car. The
observation made by the Ld. Amicus Curiae that Shri K.D. Panth had
supported the version of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt is, therefore, incorrect.
Further, keeping in view the version of Shri K.D. Panth that he was
on leave on 27.02.2002, would falsify the statement made by Shri
Tarachand Yadav, driver to the effect that he had followed the DGP's
vehicle with Shri K.D. Panth, Constable. It is significant to note that the Ld. Amicus Curiae has admitted
that
 "I am conscious of the fact that though Shri Bhatt has been
 contending that he would speak only when under a legal
 obligation to do so, his conduct after making his statement u/s
 161 Cr.PC has not been that of a detached police officer, who is
 content with giving his version. I am left with no doubt that he is
 actively "strategising" and is in touch with those, who would
 benefit or gain mileage from his testimony": Page: 457

Bhatt about his having attended the said meeting and also about
some alleged utterances made by the Chief Minister is not
acceptable. The observation made by the Ld. Amicus Curiae that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt can not be disbelieved because his statements was
motivated and he has an axe to grind against the government over
issues concerning his career and also that absurd. The further
observation of Ld. Amicus Curiae that in the absence of Shri G.C.
Raiger, the then Addl. DGP (INT) and Shri P.B. Upadhya, the then DCI
(Political & Communal) being on leave, it was quite possible that Shri 429 Sanjiv Bhatt was directed to attend the meeting on 27.02.2002 is
based on conjectures and surmises. The contention of Ld. Amicus
Curiae that the phone call records do not contradict the statement
of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt is without any basis in as much as the same do
not even support his statement. The call detail records show the
location of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt at Ahmedabad and the last call was
received by him at 20.40 hours, which do not establish that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt had gone to Gandhinagar to attend a meeting around
22:30 hours. Significantly, the claim of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt of having attended
the meetings on 27/28.02.2002 becomes false and unacceptable as
according to his call detail records he could not have been present
in the alleged meeting that took place at CM's residence on
28.02.2002 at 1030 hrs. Another claim of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt that he
left the meeting of 27.02.2002 night halfway is suggestive of the fact
that in reality he did not attend the meeting. This meeting was of a
very short duration and it was practically impossible for a junior
officer of the level of Shri Bhatt to leave the meeting midway. Further, the view of Ld. Amicus Curiae that the exact language
allegedly used by the Chief Minister in the said meeting on
27.02.2002 is not material, can not be accepted in as much as there
are atleast three versions available on record in this regard. Smt.
Jakia Nasim in her complaint has claimed that a high level meeting
was convened by the Chief Minister at which Chief Secretary Subba
Rao, Home Secretary Ashok Narayan and senior police men were
summoned at which clear instructions were given 'not to deal with
the Hindu rioting mobs'. Further, Shri R. B. Sreekumar has claimed
that Shri K. Chakravarthi had informed him on 28.02.2002 that Shri
Narendra Modi, CM had convened a meeting of senior officers on
27.02.2002 late in the evening on return from Godhra and had said
that in communal riots police takes action against Hindus and
Muslims on one to one basis. This will not do now – allow Hindus to
give vent to their anger. As against this, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt claims
that the Chief Minister allegedly impressed upon the gathering in the
meeting for that for too long the Gujarat Police had been following
the principle of balancing the actions against the Hindus and
Muslims while dealing with the communal riots in Gujarat. This time
the situation warranted that the Muslims be-taught a lesson to
ensure that such incidents do not recur ever again. The Chief
Minister Shri Narendra Modi expressed the view that the emotions
were running very high amongst the Hindus and it was imperative 430 that they be allowed to vent out their anger. It is not understood as
to whose words should be relied upon because none of them i.e. Smt.
Jakia Nasim, Shri R. B. Sreekumar and Shri Sanjiv Bhatt were
present in the said meeting. Another factor worth consideration at
this stage is that there is no evidence available on record that any
instructions on these lines were passed on to the police formation
down below thereby ruling out the possibility of such utterances as
alleged were made by CM in the meeting. Based on the aforesaid three versions Amicus Curiae has arrived at
a conclusion that the same would attract the offences u/s I53 A (1) (a) & (b), 153B (1) (c),166 and 505 (2) IPC . Section 153A (1) (a) IPC states that 'whoever, by words promotes
or attempts to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred, or
ill will on the ground of religion between different religious
communities. In other words, Section 153A(1)(b) IPC can be
paraphrased as 'whoever commits any act which is prejudicial to the
maintenance of harmony between different religious communities
and which is likely to disturb the public tranquility’. Even if any of
the aforesaid three versions allegedly made by Chief Minister, the
ingredients of section 153A(1) (a) & (b) are not attracted. The facets
of the allegations attributed to Shri Narendra Modi can not fall under
sub-class (a) or (b) of the 153 (A) (1) IPC . At this juncture, it would
not be out of place to mention that the Chief Minster made four
statements within 24 hours on 27/28.02.2002. At Godhra on
27.02.2002 evening the Chief Minister publicly said that burning of
karsevaks in a train at Godhra was unparalleled in the history and
assured the people that the culprits would be punished. He also said
that the Government would ensure that the peace was maintained in
the State and the Government would not be lacking in discharging
its duty. On 28.02.2002 morning, he spoke in the assembly after
obituary reference that the State government has taken this cruel,
inhuman, heinous and organized crime very seriously and is
committed to take symbolic strict ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 458

steps and to punish the culprits in such an exemplary manner that
such an incident may not recur in future. On 28.02.2002 afternoon 431 in his press conference in Circuit House Annexe, Ahmedabad, Shri
Narendra Modi reiterated that Government of Gujarat has taken this
heinous train burning incident at Godhra very seriously and that
people should help the government to ensure that the culprits are
punished. Shri Narendra Modi also told the press that those who had
acted in retaliation and anger after the incident shall also not be
spared. Further, he appealed made to the people of Gujarat on
Doordarshan on 28.02.2002 evening to keep restrain and maintain
peace and harmony. He also said that the Government was
determined to bring these culprits to justice and give them
unimaginable punishment. It may thus be seen that the thrust of
CM's speech everywhere was that the incident was heinous,
organised and that the culprits would be brought to strictest,
punishment. Similarly, section 505 (2) IPC can be paraphrased as Whoever
makes any statement with intend to create (or permit to create (or
is likely to create or permit to create) feelings of enmity or hatred or
ill will between different religious community. In view of the reasons
enumerated above a case u/s 505(2) IPC is also not made out. Also, section 153B (1) (c) IPC can be paraphrased as Whoever by
words makes any assertion concerning, the obligation of any class or
person by reason of their being members of a religious community
and such assertion is likely to cause disharmony or feeling of enmity
or hatred or ill will between such members and other persons. As
regards the application of this section, it may be mentioned that it
is not the case that the Chief Minister made any assertion
concerning the obligation of any religious community to do such acts
as are likely to cause disharmony. He did not make any appeal to
Hindus or Muslims to take up arms against each other. On the other
hand Shri Narendra Modi made an appeal on 28.02.2002 that both
the communities should desist from doing any act by physically
attacking each other. This appeal was broadcasted by the
Doordarshan intermittently. In view of this no offence u/s 153B (1) (c) IPC is made out. As regards section 166 IPC, it deals with the public servants
disobeying any direction of law as to the way in which he is to
conduct himself as a public servant. It can not be extracted from the
statement attributed to Shri Narendra Modi that he was thereby
disobeying any directions of law as to the way, in which he is to
conduct himself as Chief Minister. No such directions can be quoted 432 from law as for the Chief Minister to disobey it. In view of this there
is no application of section 166 IPC at all against Shri Narendra Modi. Thus recommendations of Amicus Curiae and evidence
collected during further investigation u/s 173 (8) Cr.PC have been
examined in detail to see, if the ingredients of the suggested sections
for prosecution are attracted or not. On such assessment it is
reasonably concluded that no utterances on part of Shri Narendra
Modi could be attributed suggestive to any intended promotion of
hatred ill-will etc. amongst religious groups. The settled legal
position is that mensrea is required for offences u/s 153A IPC. In
view of the same and evidence discussed in preceding paras, there is
no evidence to prima facie allege commission of suggested offences
by Shri Narendra Modi. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, DIG (under suspension) has sent a letter
dated 30.12.2011 to the Secretary, Hon'ble Justice Nanavati &
Justice Mehta Commission of Inquiry enclosing herewith an
Annexure 'D', which is a copy of fax message No. D-2 /2-COM
I/ALERT /174/ 2002, dated 28.02.2002, which he claimed to have
sent to different authorities under his signature. The same Annexure
'D' has been uploaded on website www.twocircle.net. It is reproduced
below: COM/ALERT /100/2002, dated 27.02.2002, claiming to have sent the
same under his signature. A copy of the said fax message is also
reproduced below: Page: 460

2011. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt further contended that, in the normal course
of investigation, the Investigating Officer should have called for the
original and/or office copy of the aforesaid fax message from the
State IB Gandhinagar and the offices of the respective recipients of
the said fax message. In this connection, it may be emphasized that the statement of
Shri Sanjeev Bhatt was recorded by Shri A.K. Malhotra, Member, SIT
during Enquiry on 25.11.2009 & 26.11.2009, and the same was
signed by Shri Bhatt. However, the same did not contain any
reference to the aforesaid two messages, which Shri Bhatt now
claims to have sent on 27.02.2002 & 28.02.2002, despite the fact 435 that copies of all others messages duly mentioned by him in his
statement were handed over by Shri Bhatt to Shri Malhotra.
Similarly, the statement of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was recorded u/s 161 Cr.PC by the IO Shri Himanshu Shukla on 21.03.2011 & 22.03.2011,
and the same also did not contain any reference to the aforesaid two
messages. This raises very serious doubts about the authenticity of
the claim that these messages had in fact been sent to the concerned
addresses. Significantly, the statements recorded by Shri A.K.
Malhotra and the IO (Shri Himanshu Shukla) were submitted to the
highest Court of country (Supreme Court) at the relevant point time. Apart from the aforesaid position, the following points would go
to show that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had the full opportunity to produce
these messages if they had in fact been prepared and sent to
concerned authorities, and did not produce before SIT: However, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not produce any such message
 before Shri Sreekumar. 3. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not produce any of the aforesaid
 messages, either before Shri A.K.Malhotra, Member, SIT during
 the course of the preliminary inquiry conducted by him under
 the orders of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India or before Shri
 Himanshu Shukla, DCP, Crime, Ahmedabad City, who had
 conducted further investigation u/s 173(8) in this case 436 ( Cr.No.67/2002 of Meghaninagar P.S. (Gulberg Society Case)).
 He did not also refer to either of these two fax messages in his
 statements made before Shri A.K. Malhotra Member, SIT on
 25.11.2002 & 26.11.2002 and before Shri Himanshu Shukla on
 21.03.2011. As already highlighted above, both these
 statements were submitted to the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
 India on 14.05.2010 and 25.04.2011 respectively. 4. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, suo moto, filed an affidavit dated 14.04.2011
 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in SLP (Crl.)
 1088/2008 filed by Smt. Jakia Nasim. In that affidavit also he
 did not mention anything about the two aforesaid fax messages. 5. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was summoned before the Nanavati
 Commission in May, June & July, 2011 for his deposition and
 cross examination. However, he did not mention anything
 about the aforesaid two fax messages to the Commission. 6. Shri Sanjiv Bhatt was called by Shri Raju Ramchandran, Amicus
 Curiae for personal interaction at Gandhinagar on 18.06.2011.
 On that occasion also, Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not mention
 anything about the aforesaid two fax messages to the Amicus
 Curiae and confirmed his statements recorded during the SIT's
 Preliminary Inquiry as well as subsequently recorded u/s 161
 Cr.PC by the IO. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 461 7. Shri R.B.Sreekumar, in his letter dated 28.12.2011 addressed
 to Shri Sanjiv Bhatt (copy sent to SIT), has clearly stated that
 the plethora of incriminating information against the Govt.,
 which he (Sanjiv Bhatt) claimed to possess now, had not been
 put up to him at the time of filing his first affidavit on 15.07
 2002. Further, if it had come to his (Sanjiv Bhatt), notice that
 such material had not been included in his affidavit, nothing
 stopped him from filing a separate affidavit bringing these
 relevant inputs to the notice of the Commission. Shri
 Sreekumar also highlighted that nearly 12 intelligence reports
 produced before him by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt were included in it,
 and the same did not contain anything about the role of the 437 Govt. officials in the alleged planning and execution of the
 antiminority genocide and subsequent prolonged subversion of
 the criminal justice system and delayed justice to the riot
 victims. It may thus be seen that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt produced two fax
messages for the first time before Nanvati Commission of Inquiry
only in the month of December, 2011, and subsequently before the
SIT in January, 2012. A perusal of the photo copy of the office copy of fax message
No. D-2/2-COM / ALERT/100/2002, dated 27.02.2002 claimed to
have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) on behalf
of Addl. DGP (Int.) to CP, Ahmedabad with information to PS to CM,
PS to MoS (Home), Home Secretary and Police Gandhinagar, would
go to show that there was no security classification of the said
message. The dispatch register of the D-2 section of the State IB does
not show any dispatch of the said message as the dispatch number
on the said date was under serial number 90. Investigation revealed
that actually a letter No. D-2 /2-COM/BANAO/100/2002, dated
02.03.2002 was sent on behalf of Addl. DG (Int.) to ACS (Home), Govt.
of Gujarat with information to Police Gandhinagar, PS to CM and PS
to MoS(Home) and the same related to I Cr. No. 9/02 u/s 302, 114 etc. of Khanpur P.S., Distt. Panchmahals. The said message bears a
typed dispatch number, which is very unusual, because all the
dispatch numbers on the messages sent by State IB on 27.02.2002
were hand written. It is not understood as to what prompted Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt to send such a message, when all the individuals to
whom this message had been addressed were present in the meeting
held at the CM's residence on the night of 27.02.2002, and it was
known to all of them that the Govt. had already decided to bring the
dead bodies to Ahmedabad, for which the necessary bandobast was
required to be made: The said message had not been marked to IGP
(P&C), but was allegedly put up to Shri O.P. Mathur, the then IGP
(PRC) who allegedly initialled the same in token of having seen the
same on 28.02.2002. Surprisingly, this message was not put up to
Shri G.C. Raiger, the then Addl. DG (Int.), who was very much in the
office on 28.02.2002. Further, Shri O.P. Mathur, the then IGP (P & C)
also did not mark it to Addl. DG (Int.), a fact which raises serious
doubts about the genuineness of the message in question. A perusal of the photo copy of the office copy of fax message
No. D-2 /2-COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002, now claimed
to have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security), on
behalf of Addl. DGP (Int.) to PS to CM and PS to MoS (Home) with
information to Home Secretary, Police Gandhinagar and CP,
Ahmedabad, would go to show that there was no security 438 classification of the said message. The dispatch register of the D-2
section of the State IB also does not show any dispatch of the said
message as the dispatch number on the said date was under serial
number 100. Investigation revealed that O.No. D-2/2-
Com/174/2002, dated 16.03.2002 was sent by Addl. DG (Int.) to Shri
B.K. Haldar, Jt. Secretary (NI), MHA, New Delhi and related to the
daily report about the communal incidents up to 16.03.2002 (1800
hrs) in Gujarat state. This message was allegedly put up to Shri G.C.
Raiger, the then Addl. DG (Int.), for favour of perusal, and the same
allegedly bears the initials of Shri Raiger dated 28.02.2002.
Interestingly, the message in question had been addressed to PS to
CM and PS to MoS (Home), whereas the same was actually actionable
by Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad City. Further, Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt had signed a fax message No. C/ D-2 /BANAO /178 /2002,
dated 28.02.2002, which was received by Shri E.L. Christian, the
then PI, State IB Control Room and written by Shri Bharatsinh
Rathod, the then AIO, to the dictation of Shri Christian, who
subsequently took it personally to Shri Bhatt for his signature. In
this message, it had been mentioned that, based on received
information, Gulberg Society located in Chamanpura, Meghaninagar
had been attacked by a mob of Hindu rioters and late Ahesan Jafri,
Ex-MP along with his family members and 18 others had been killed,
and that the attack was still continuing and this incident was likely
to have Statewide repercussions. This message would clearly show
that no earlier intimation prior to the attack on Gulberg Society had
been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, as the same did not contain any
reference to the earlier message claimed to ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 462

have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt vide message No.D-2/2-
COM/ALERT/174/2002 dated 28.02.2002. The information
contained in the message No.178 dated 28.02.2002 had actually been
received over telephone by Shri E.L. Christian, PI who had dictated
the same to his AIO Shri Rathod and not by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt as
claimed by him. Undoubtedly at the time of signing this message,
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had marked the message as "MOST URGENT" in his
own handwriting. Efforts were made to locate the dispatch register
and fax register of State IB Control Room, but the same had been
reportedly destroyed. Further efforts were made to locate the so
called message No. 174 dated 28.02.2002 with the persons to whom 439 the said message had been shown addressed, but without any success
till date. During the course of further investigation, the persons who are
supposed to have received the two messages dated 27.02.2002 &
28.02.2002 as well as the concerned officials of State IB, who were
present in the office as also in the Control Room on the aforesaid
two dates were examined and the evidence collected is discussed in
subsequent paras. Dr. P.K. Mishra, the then Principal Secretary to Chief Minister,
has denied having received or seen the message dated 27.02.2002,
purportedly sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt. He is of the view that there
was no occasion for Shri Sanjiv Bhatt to send such a message,
because every participant at the law & order review meeting called
by the Chief Minister on the night of 27.02.2002 was aware of the
fact that the dead bodies of kar-sevaks who were killed in Godhra
train carnage incident, were being brought to Ahmedabad by road
under police escort. Dr. Mishra denied receiving or having seen the
fax message No. D-2/2- COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002.
He added that the claimed message was quite alarming, and that had
he received any such message, he would certainly remember the
same. On being shown fax message No.C/ D-2 / BANAO / 178/2002,
dated 28.02.2002 handwritten in Gujarati and signed by Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt on behalf of Addl. DG (Int.) and addressed to Home Secretary,
Gandhinagar with information to PS to CM, PS to MoS (Home) Police
Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad City. Dr. Mishra stated that the
language/expression of this message clearly indicated that the
information about the said incident was being sent for the first time,
as there was no reference to the message No. 174, which Shri Bhatt
now claims to have sent earlier during that day. Finally, Dr. Mishra
stated that the aforesaid two fax messages dated 27.02.2002 &
28.02.2002 in English allegedly sent by Shri Bhatt were false and
fabricated documents. Shri Gordhan Zadafia, the then MoS (Home), denied having
received or seen the two typed fax messages No. D-2 /2-COM /
ALERT/100/2002, dated 27.02.2002 & D-2/2-
COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002 in English now claimed
to have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI. He further
stated that both these messages were false and bogus, and had never
been received in his office. According to Shri Gordhan Zadafia, these
messages have been fabricated and have been introduced for the first
time after a lapse of about 10 years of the events mentioned therein,
and that this appears to be a deliberate attempt on the part of Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt to involve him in the Gulberg Society incident. He does
not remember receiving message No. C/D-2/ BANAO/178/2002,
dated 28.02.2002 in Gujarati bearing the signature of Shri Sanjiv 440 Bhatt. However, Shri Gordhan Zadafia has stated that the fact that
this message does not contain any reference to the earlier message
No. 174 allegedly claimed to have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt on
the same day, would show that the earlier message was a fabricated
one. He has stated that he came to know about the Gulberg Society
incident late in the afternoon of 28.02.2002, and that on receipt of
the said information, necessary instructions were given to the
concerned police officers to deal effectively with the situation. Shri V.P. Patel, the then Private Secretary to MoS (Home) has
denied receiving or having seen the two typed fax messages No.D-
2/2-COM/ALERT/100/2002, dated 27.02.2002 and D-2/2-
COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002 in English claimed to
have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI. He further stated
that he did not remember to have received the handwritten fax
message No. C/D-2/BANAO/178/2002, dated 28.02.2002 in Gujarati
bearing the signature of Shri Sanjiv Bhatt. Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS (Home), denied having
received or seen the typed fax message No. D-2/2-
COM/ALERT/100/2002, dated 27.02.2002 claimed to have been
sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt. Shri Ashok Narayan is of the view that
such a message was not required to be sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt,
because as a decision to bring the dead bodies of the kar-sevaks to
Ahmedabad by road had already been taken by the Chief Minister at
Godhra itself sometime in the evening of 27.02.2002, and this fact
was well within the knowledge of DGP and CP, ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 463

Ahmedabad. He further denied having received or seen a typed fax
message No.D-2 /2-COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002
purportedly sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt on behalf of Addl. DS (Int.) to
PS to CM and PS to MoS (Home) with information to Home Secretary,
Gandhinagar. According to Shri Ashok Narayan, the message was
rather unusual. He added that both these fax messages are not
genuine and are false and fabricated documents. He denied having
received any information about the attack on Gulberg Society, and
he came to know about the killing of late Ahesan Jafri, Ex-MP
through Shri Nityanandam, the then Home Secretary some time after
the incident. After going through the message No.C/D-2/
BANAO/178/2002, dated 28.02.2002 handwritten in Gujarati. Shri
Ashok Narayan stated that he does not remember to have received
such a message after the incident, and has stated that the same does 441 not contain any reference to any earlier message vide No.174 claimed
to have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt. Shri K. Chakravarthi, the then DGP, Gujarat has stated that the
fax message in English bearing No.D-2/2-COM/ ALERT/100/2002,
dated 27.02.2002 purportedly sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt as DCI
(Security) was not received or seen by him on 27.02.2002 night,
though a copy of the same is shown to have been marked to Police
Gandhinagar. He has further stated that in all such law & order
matters normally senior officers of State IB were expected to inform
their superior telephonically and thereafter follow it up with such
written message. He has also stated that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not
contact him telephonically or in person on the night intervening
27/28.02.2002 in this regard. He has denied to have received any
intelligence report about the massive mobilization of local cadres of
BJP for the VHP supported Gujarat Bandh. After going through a
photo copy of another fax message bearing No. D-2/2-COM/
ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002, Shri Chakravarthi has denied
to have received any such message at the relevant time. According
to Shri Chakravarthi, a member of a minority community from
Ahmedabad had telephoned him at about 1400 hrs on 28.02.2002,
about an attack on late Ahesan Jafri, Ex- MP's house and that he had
immediately telephoned CP, Ahmedabad City in the matter, to which
CP, Ahmedabad city, had informed that he had already sent officers
and additional reinforcements to deal with the situation. Shri
Chakravarhti has also stated that a fax message was also sent by the
State Control Room to CP, Ahmedabad City at 1405 hrs on
28.02.2002 in this regards. On looking into the photo copy genuine
of handwritten fax message bearing No. C/D-2/BANAO/178/2002,
dated 28.02.2002 in Gujarati, Shri Chakravarthi has stated that the
language of the said fax message shows that the Gulberg Society
incident was reported for the first time through this message after
the occurrence of the incident on 28.02.2002, which proves the
falsity of earlier message No. D-2 /2-COM / ALERT / 174 / 2002
dated 28.02.2002 claimed to have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt. Shri P.C. Pande, the then CP, Ahmedabad City, has stated that
it was well within his knowledge after the meeting of 27.02.2002
night held at CM's residents, that the dead bodies of the kar-sevaks
killed in the Godhra incident were being brought to Ahmedabad City
with a view to facilitate the relatives of the deceased to identify and
claim the dead bodies. As such there was no need for Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt to send a fax message No.D-2/2-COM/ALERT/100/2002, dated
27.02.2002 to him. He denied having received any such fax message
in his office on the night intervening 27/28.02.2002 as he remained
in his office in Shahibaug till about 0100 hrs on 28.02.2002. He
further denied seeing any such message. He has also denied having
received or seen fax message No. D-2/2-COM/ALERT/174/2002, 442 dated 28.02.2002. He has given the details of the additional
force/officers sent by him on receipt of the messages from Sr. PI,
Meghaninagar regarding the surrounding of Gulberg Society by a
mob. He has also stated that the DGP might have spoken to him
about the situation in Gulberg Society and also about the declaration
of curfew, to which he was informed that the curfew had been
declared in Chamanpura Chowky area around 1220 hrs. Shri Pande
is of the view that both these fax messages now claimed to have been
sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI, are false and fabricated
documents. According to Shri Pande, this message was only marked
to him for information, though he was required to take action on the
same and send a situation report. Shri Pande has denied sending any
situation report with regard to the Gulberg Society matter to the
SCR, Gandhinagar as the message was never sent to him. As regards
the message No.C/D-2/BANAO/178/2002, dated 28.02.2002
handwritten in Gujarati and signed by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, Shri Pande
has stated that this message could have been sent only after the
incident had taken place at Gulberg Society, and the very fact that
it did not contain any reference to the alleged earlier message No.
174 claimed to have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt would go to show
that the said message was not a genuine one and appears to have
been manipulated subsequently. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 464

 Shri O.P. Mathur, the then IGP (Political & Communal), has
stated that fax message No.D2/2-COM/ALERT/100/2002, dated
27.02.2002 does not have any security classification and in case it
passed through the Control Room, it should have contained details
about the time and date. Further, the fax message does not bear the
date and time at which it was passed on to the authorities, and as
such it can not be said as to whether the said message was actually
passed on to the concerned authorities or not. Also, according to Shri
Mathur, the language of the fax message does not show as to under
whose instructions the said message was sent and who informed Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt as to what had transpired in the meeting, because in the
said message did not say that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt had himself attended
the said meeting. Had Shri Sanjiv Bhatt attended the said meeting,
he was duty bound to submit a report in writing to Addl. DG(Int.) on
28.02.2002, when Shri G.C Raiger, the then Addl. DG (Int.) was very
much in the office. Shri Mathur has further stated that the said fax 443 message had not been marked to anyone including himself. After
looking into his alleged initials dated 28.02.2002 on the office copy
of the typed fax message dated 27.02.2002 claimed to have been sent
by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, Shri Mathur has stated that the said initials
were not his and the same had been fabricated by someone, as the
message was not marked to him. Shri Mathur has also stated that
had it been genuine paper, he would have marked the same to Addl.
DG (Int.) for his information (being the overall Head of Intelligence
wing) as Shri G.C. Raiger was very much in the office on 28.02.2002.
Shri Mathur finally stated that the said fax message was a forged
document, which had been fabricated subsequently by someone with
a vested interest. He has denied receiving the message No. D-2/2-
COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002 in English allegedly sent
by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt to different authorities. Shri G.C. Raiger, the then Addl. DG (Int.) has stated that the
typed fax message No. D-2/2-COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated
28.02.2002 was never put up to him on 28.02.2002 for perusal, and
his initials dated 28.02.2002 on the said message are fabricated. He
has stated that the said message was never seen by him and that it
was a fabricated document. He has also stated that another typed fax
message No.D-2/2-COM/ALERT/I00/2002, dated 27.02.2002
claimed to have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt to different
authorities was neither put up to him for his information nor shown
to him. He was also not orally informed about the same by Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt. However Shri Raiger has stated that on 28.02.2002 afternoon,
Shri Sanjiv Bhatt came to his chamber and conveyed a message based
on a report from local IB unit, Ahmedabad City about the collection
of a mob outside Gulberg Society, where late Ahesan Jafri, Ex-MP was
residing and also about the inadequate presence of police on the
spot. Shri Raiger has stated that the said message was passed on to
the Ahmedabad City Police Control Room. Further, according to Shri
Raiger, he along with Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, met the DGP immediately
and informed him about the developing situation at Gulberg Society.
Shri Raiger further stated that the DGP was requested to impress
upon the CP, Ahmedabad City to declare curfew in the area. To this,
DGP immediately responded by telephonically speaking to Shri P.C.
Pande the then CP, Ahmedabad City to ascertain the factual position
CP, Ahmedabad, Shri Pande informed the DGP over phone that a
curfew had already been imposed. Shri Raiger has also stated that
after meeting the DGP, there was no reason for Shri Sanjiv Bhatt to
send such a fax message on 28.02.2002. After going through the 444 message No.C/D-2/BANAO/178/2002, dated 28.02.2002
handwritten in Gujarati and bearing the signature of Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt, Shri Raiger has stated that the said message does not contain
any reference to message No.D-2 /2-COM/ALERT/ 174/2002, dated
28.02.2002 claimed to have been sent earlier during the day by Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt. This would go to show that the message No. D-2/2-
COM/ALERT/174 /2002, dated 28.02.2002 was not a genuine one. Shri P.B. Upadhyay, the then Deputy Commissioner in charge
of Communal section has stated that he had proceeded on leave on
26.02.2002. However, Shri O.P.Mathur, the then IGP (Admn. &
Security), who held the additional charge of the post of IGP(P & C)
spoke to him over phone and cancelled his leave, with instructions
to report immediately for duty in the light of Godhra train carnage
incident. Shri Upadhyay accordingly reported for duty in the office
on 27.02.2002 evening around 1700 hrs or so. He has further stated
that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the then DCI (Security) looked after his work
in his absence and had sent some messages during the day
(27.02.2002.). He has also stated that he remained in the office till
late hours of 27.02.2002 as he stayed in Gandhinagar and that Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt left the office earlier than him as he used to live in
Ahmedabad city. He has denied complete knowledge about the two-
typed fax messages No.D-2/2-COM/ALERT/100/2002, dated
27.02.2002 and D-2/2-COM/ ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002 in
English, and has stated that neither Shri Sanjiv Bhatt informed him
about it nor these messages were shown to him. According to Shri
P.B. Upadhyay, these messages do not appear to be genuine, as the
dispatch number had been typed, which was quite ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 465

unusual as all dispatch numbers used to be put down in hand by the
dispatcher. According to Shri P.B. Upadhyay, had such message been
issued either on 27.02.2002 or 28.02.2002, the same would have
definitely been put up to him for perusal as he used to handle the
'Communal' subject in the office as per the then division of work. He
has also stated that the initials dated 28.02.2002 of Shri O.P. Mathur
on the fax message dated 27.02.2002 do not appear to be genuine.
Shri P.B. Upadhyay has also stated that the very fact that the
message dated 28.02.2002 was addressed to PS to CM and PS to MoS
(Home) and on which CP, Ahmedabad City was to take action, to
whom only a copy was marked, would go to show that the message 445 was not a genuine one. He has denied knowledge about a meeting at
CM's residence on 27.02.2002 evening and that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt
also did not inform him on 28.02.2002 of having attended any
meeting with the CM in the night of 27.02.2002. Shri Iftekhar Ahemad V. Pathan, AIO , who is posted to D-2
section (Communal section) of State IB since 2000, has stated that
the office copies of fax messages No.D-2/2-COM/ALERT/100/2002,
dated 27.02.2002 and D-2/2-COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated
28.02.2002 typed in English are not available on records of D-2
section and that he had never seen the same. He has further stated
that these messages were not dispatched from the dispatch register
from the office of State IB and proved that the dispatch No. 100
related to a letter dated 02.03.2002 sent by Shri P.B. Upadhyay to
ACS (Home) regarding I Cr.No. 9/02 u/s 302 IPC of Khanpur P.S.
Distt. Panchmahals, and dispatch No. 174 related to a fax message
sent by Add. DG (int.) to Shri B.K. Haldar, Jt. Secretary, MHA, New
Delhi on 16.03.2002 regarding communal incidents reported up to
16.03.2002. According to Shri Pathan, the very fact that the dispatch
numbers had been typed would show that the messages are false and
bogus. He has further stated that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt did not come to
State IB office late in the evening of 27.02.2002 while he was in the
office till quite late. He has proved that fax message No.C/D-
2/BANAO/178/2002, dated 28.02.2002, handwritten in Gujarati, to
be in the handwriting of Shri Bharatsinh Rathod and signed by Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt, was a genuine message and a copy of the same was
available in D-2 branch. The same does not contain any reference of
either message No D-2/2- COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002
claimed to have been sent by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, which appears to be
bogus. Shri V.M. Sonar, the then PI and Shri S.R. Shukla, the then IO
of State IB, who were posted to D-2 Branch and were present in the
office on 27.02.2002 & 28.02.2002 have corroborated the statement
of Shri I.V. Pathan, AIO, D-2 branch, State IB. Shri Bharatsinh Rathod, the then AIO, State IB Control Room,
who was on duty from 0800 hrs to 2000 hrs on 28.02.2002, has
stated that the fax message No. C/D-2/BANAO/178/2002, dated
28.02.2002 was in his hand writing and was written to the dictation
of Shri E.L. Christian, the then PI, State IB Control Room, who had
received the said information over telephone from IB, Ahmedabad
Region. Shri Rathod has stated that Shri Christian took this message
personally to Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, who signed the same in Gujarati. He 446 has further stated that he put down the dispatch No.178 from the
Control Room dispatch register in his hand writing and passed on
the same to the fax operator for transmission to the concerned
authorities. However, he does not recollect the exact time of the
receipt of the said message, but it was certainly after the incident
had taken place at the Gulberg Society. On looking into the photo
copy of the office copy of fax message No.D-2/2-
COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated 28.02.2002 in English, he has stated
that the message does not bear State IB Control Room dispatch
number, which was essential had the same been dispatched from D-
2 branch. He has denied having seen or passed on the said fax
message. His version has been corroborated by Shri E.L. Christian,
the then PI, State IB Control Room. Shri A.S. Kasiri, the then PI, State IB Control Room has stated
to have sent the Control Room messages No. D-2/2-
COM/ALERT/172/2002, dated 27.02.2002 and D-2/ 2-
COM/ALERT/173/2002, dated 27.02.2002 during his day duty hours
from 0800 hrs to 2000 hrs on 27.02.2002 and has confirmed his
signature thereon. Shri N.M. Gohil, the then AlO, State IB Control Room has
confirmed writing the fax messages No. D-2/2-COM/Kar-
Sevak/78/2002, dated 28.02.2002 & D-2/2-COM/ Kar-
Sevak/80/2002, dated 27.02.2002 and has identified the signature
of Shri V.J. Solanki, the then PI, State IB Control Room on the same.
Shri V. J. Solanki could not be examined, because he is unable to
speak or walk following a paralytic attack. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 466

 To sum up, on the basis of the further investigation conducted
into the two typed fax messages NO.D-2/2-COM/ALERT/100/2002,
dated 27.02.2002 and D-2/2-COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated
28.02.2002, it is conclusively established that Shri Sanjiv Bhatt, the
then DCI, did not produce the same or copies thereof before any of
the authorities before December, 2011, though a number of
opportunities arose for him to do so. From the records of D-2 section,
it is conclusively established that one of these fax messages were
issued/dispatched from the said section of State IB dealing with the 447 communal affairs. Besides that Shri P.B. Upadhyay, the then
DCI(Communal) and Shri I.V. Pathan, AIO, who is posted to D-2
Section since the year 2000 till date, have categorically stated that
neither of those two fax messages was issued from their section and
that copies thereof are not available in the records of the State IB.
Shri O.P. Mathur, the then IGP(P & C) has categorically stated that
fax message NO.D-2/2-COM/ALERT/100/2002, dated 27.02.2002
was fabricated document and that his initials thereon are not
genuine. Shri G.C. Raiger, the then Addl. D.G.(Int) has denied his
initials on the fax message No. D-2/2-COM/ALERT/174/2002, dated
28.02.2002 and has stated that the same have been forged by
someone and that no such fax message was ever sent by Shri Sanjiv
Bhatt. Shri Gordhan Zadafia, the then MoS (Home), Shri V.J.Patel,
the then P.S. to MoS(Home), Dr. P.K. Mishra, the then Principal
Secretary to Chief Minister, Shri Ashok Narayan, the then ACS
(Home) and Shri P.C. Pande, the then CP, Ahmedabad City, to whom
the aforesaid fax messages were claimed to have been sent by Shri
Sanjiv Bhatt, all have denied having received any such fax messages.
The very fact that there is no reference to fax message No. 174 dated
28.02.2002 by Control Room in fax message No.178 actually sent on
28.02.2002 after the Gulberg Society incident, would conclusively
prove that no such message was sent earlier on 28.02.2002. The oral
and documentary evidence available on record would therefore
conclusively prove that these fax messages now produced by Shri
Bhatt have been fabricated subsequently with an ulterior motive, and
have been produced by Shri Sanjiv Bhatt for the first time before the
Nanavati Commission of Inquiry and subsequently before SIT in
January, 2012. No reliance can, therefore, be placed upon both these
fax messages. To sum up, Shri A.K. Malhotra, Member, SIT has conducted an
inquiry into the complaint made by Smt. Jakia Nasim as per the
orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India passed on 27.04.2009.
In compliance to the said order a report was submitted by the SIT to
the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India on 13.05.2010, in which further
investigation u/s 173(8) Cr.PC was suggested to be conducted in
respect of Shri Gordhan Zadafia, Shri M.K. Tandon, Jt. CP and Shri
P.B. Gondia, DCP, Zone-IV, Ahmedabad City. Further investigation in
the matter was conducted by the undersigned (Shri Himanshu
Shukla, DCP, Crime Branch, Ahmedabad City) under the supervision
of Shri Y.C. Modi, Addl. DG & Member, SIT and a report in the matter
was submitted to the Hon'ble Supreme Court on 17.11.2010. Both 448 the aforesaid reports were given to Shri Raju Ramchandran, Sr.
Advocate, who had been appointed as Amicus Curiae in the matter
by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. The Amicus Curiae submitted
his Interim Report in the matter to the Hon’ble Supreme Court of
India on 20.01.2011, vide which he suggested further investigation
in respect of some of the issues. In compliance to the order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India on 15.03.2011, to conduct further investigation into
the matter u/s 173 (8) Cr.PC, Shri Himanshu Shukla, DCP, Crime
Branch carried out further investigation under the overall
supervision of Chairman, SIT Shri R.K. Raghavan, Shri Y.C. Modi,
Addl. DG & Member, SIT and Shri A.K. Malhotra, Member, SIT and
another report was submitted to the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
on 25.04.2011. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India handed over the
said report to the Ld. Amicus Curiae for his examination and
independent opinion. The Ld. Amicus Curiae accordingly examined the SIT reports
and also interacted with some of the witnesses including the police
officers and submitted his report to the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India on 25.07.2011. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India after
careful consideration of the matter passed an order on 12.09.2011,
directed the Chairman, SIT to forward a Final Report along with the
entire material collected by the SIT to the Court which had taken
cognisance of FIR of I. CRNo. 67/2002 of Meghaninagar P.S as
required u/s 173 (2) Cr.PC of the Court. It may be mentioned here that the Ld. Amicus Curiae has
agreed with the various recommendations made by the SIT on the
different issues inquired into/investigated by the SIT. However, the
Ld. Amicus Curiae is of the view that at this prima facie stage
offences u/s 153A(1)(a)& (b), 153B (1)(c), 166 and 505 (2) IPC are
made out against Shri Narendra Modi ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page: 467

regarding the statement made by him in the meeting on 27.02.2002.
In this connection, as discussed, above SIT is of the view that the
offences under the aforesaid sections of law are not made out against
Shri Narendra Modi. In the light of the aforesaid facts, a closure report is being
submitted for favour of perusal and orders. (Himanshu Shukla)
 DCP & IO, SIT
 Gandhinagar

 (emphasis supplied) 450 ANNEXURE-2163

 DETAILS OF GODHRA RIOT CASES INVESTIGATED BY SPECIAL INVESTIGATION TEAM
Sr. Police Station Pre-SIT Pre-SIT No. of Post SIT Post SIT No. of Total accused No. of accused No. of No. of Whether the No. of No. of No. of
No. CR No. and No. of Charge Sheet No. of Charge Sheet arrested convicted by accused Appeals appeals accused accused Appeals
 date of accused and accused and Trial Court acquitted filed in disposed in convicted acquitted filed in
 registration of arrested Supplementary arrested Supplementary by Trial the the High by High by High the
 offence charge sheets charge sheets Court Hon’ble Court or Court Court Hon’ble
 High not? Supreme
 Court Court 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 1. Meghaninagar 46 1+5 26 6 72 (Including 2 24 39 17 Pending in --- --- --