: JASMEET SINGH, J 1. This is an application seeking grant of regular bail to the applicant in
 Case No. 186/2021, FIR No. VIII/02/DZU/2021 registered at P.S. NCB,
 Delhi under section 8(C) / 29 of NDPS Act, pending before the Patiala House
 Courts, New Delhi. 2. The brief facts of the case are that on 30.01.2021, a secret information
 was received at Delhi Zonal Unit, NCB that one person namely Sayed Javed
 Hussain is travelling to Manipur by Air India Flight No. AI-889 from
 Terminal-3, IGI Airport and is carrying huge quantity of NRX Medicines.
 He was apprehended at the airport and on his search he was found carrying Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 1383/2022 Page 1 of 20 ARORA Signing Date:13.01.2023 18:24:53 36,000 tablets of Tramadol weighing about 22.1 kg as well as 20 bottles of
 Codeine Syrup. Subsequently, Sayed Javed Hussain was arrested and during
 the course of investigation, while tendering his statement under section 67 of
 NDPS Act, he revealed of the present applicant, i.e. Phundreimayun Yaz
 Khan. He stated that the applicant is his friend and he used to purchase the
 contraband from Delhi through the applicant and thereafter sell the
 contraband in Manipur. Co-accused Sayed Javed Hussain further disclosed
 that on 26.01.2021, he reached Rajouri Garden Metro Station where the
 applicant sold him the said contraband procured through Amarjit Singh
 Sandhu. Hence, the applicant was arrested. 3. The statement of the applicant was also recorded under section 67 of
 the NDPS Act, wherein he disclosed that he was running a pharmacy
 business since 2017 and he used to purchase the Narcotics Medicines from
 one Amarjit Singh Sandhu. He revealed that the recovered contraband was
 also purchased from him by cash. 4. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that there is no evidence
 against the applicant, except the disclosure statement of the co-accused
 Sayed Javed Hussain and it is solely on this basis, that the FIR has been
 registered against the applicant. He further submits that neither any CCTV
 footage was obtained from the Metro Station nor any public witness was
 associated at the time of arrest of the applicant. It is also stated that nothing
 is recovered from the applicant or at his instance. 5. The main reliance of the learned counsel for the petitioner is on the
 ratio of " Tofan Singh v State of Tamil Nadu " [2021 4 SCC 1] to say that a
 statement recorded under section 67 of the NDPS Act cannot be used as a
 confessional statement in the trial of an offence under the NDPS Act . He Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 1383/2022 Page 2 of 20 ARORA Signing Date:13.01.2023 18:24:53 states that the two questions which were framed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in Tofan Singh (supra) were as under: 6. After detailed analysis, the conclusions arrived by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court were as under: 7. Mr. Jain, learned counsel for the applicant states that the alleged
 location as per the CDRs of the applicant and Sayed Javed Hussain at Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 1383/2022 Page 3 of 20 ARORA Signing Date:13.01.2023 18:24:53 Rajouri Garden is stated to be on 26.01.2021, whereas the recovery of the
 alleged drugs/arrest of Sayed Javed Hussain was made on 30.01.20201,
 which is after four days and does not create any proximity between the two
 instances. He further states that there are no allegations or prima facie
 documents to show any money trail whatsoever between the applicant and
 Sayed Javed Hussain or Amarjit Singh Sandhu. 8. He further states that the prosecution has not been able to bring on
 record even a single piece of evidence that the alleged drugs recovered from
 the co-accused Sayed Javed Hussain were brought from Sh. Amarjit Singh
 Sandhu apart from his oral statement, i.e, alleged disclosure , nor has the
 prosecution tried finding out the batch number of the said medicines or tried
 to find out the manufacturer as to whom the said drugs were supplied to. It is
 also stated that the as per the complaint itself , no inventory of the seized
 drugs with the items and their batch numbers were made for the purpose of
 identification of each tablet/bottles, etc. by the police officials which further
 creates a doubt about the alleged raid/arrest/recovery. 9. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that no
 investigation/enquiry was ever undertaken to find out the manufacturer of
 the alleged recovered drugs in question and so as to how the same were
 alleged to have been recovered from the co-accused. He states that the
 applicant had a licence to deal with manufacturing and sale of the medicinal
 and pharma products Furthermore, the applicant is in custody for more than
 1.5 years. 10. Mr. Jain submits that the cardinal principle of Criminal Law
 specifically speaks of innocence of the accused until proven guilty. He says
 that it is well settled that mere suspicion cannot take place of evidence and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 1383/2022 Page 4 of 20 ARORA Signing Date:13.01.2023 18:24:53 in the present case, the prosecution is only relying upon circumstantial
 evidence against the present applicant which at best can only raising a doubt
 or suspicion upon the applicant and nothing more than that. Reliance is
 placed upon a judgement of the Apex Court titled as " Jaharlal Das v. State
 of Orissa " [(1991) 3 SCC 27] wherein it was held that no conviction can be
 founded upon mere conjectures and suspicion and they should not replace
 legal proof under any circumstances. Further reliance is placed on the case
 of " Khekh Ram v. State of Himachal Pradesh " [(2018) 1 SCC 202] which
 reiterated the said principle to state that suspicion, no matter how grave,
 cannot take the place of proof. 11. It is also submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that the
 statement of the applicant under Section 67 is clearly hit by the bar of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act as it is a statement made before a
 police officer and is not admissible. The only exception being Section 27 of
 the Indian Evidence Act. 12. He further states that at best, the only incriminating material against
 the applicant is the phone call record and the statement recorded under section 67 of the NDPS Act. He states that Section 27 of the Indian
 Evidence Act is not applicable in the present case as there is no recovery on
 the basis of the statement. 13. Lastly, Mr. Jain has placed a strong reliance on Section 27 of the
 Indian Evidence Act as well as a coordinate judgement of this Court titled as
 " Amit Ranjan v. Narcotics Control Bureau " [2022 SCC OnLine Del 1532],
 more particularly paras 16, 17 and 33 which read as under- 14. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent states that the call
 record details show that the applicant was in frequent contact with one
 Amarjit Singh Sandhu on 26.01.2021, i.e, the date when the Tramadol
 tablets were collected by the co-accused Sayed Javed Hussain. He further
 states that according to the CAF/CDR details, location of the co-accused
 Sayed Javed Hussain and the applicant is also found to be in Rajouri Garden
 on 26.01.2021. 15. Mr. Bansal, learned standing counsel for the respondent submits that
 Amarjit Singh Sandhu is also involved in another NDPS case bearing no.
 VIII/28/DZU/2020 for recovery of 50,000 Tramadol tablets, which is a
 commercial quantity and is absconding in the said case as well. He further
 submits that NBWs were issued against Amarjit Singh Sandhu and he is
 found absconding. An anticipatory bail application was also moved by him
 which was dismissed by this Court. 16. Learned counsel for the respondent states that the incriminating
 material seized on record corroborates with the statement of the accused
 which he had voluntarily tendered and admitted during investigation. He
 states that the statement tendered by the applicant under section 67 of NDPS
 Act led to the discovery of Amarjit Singh Sandhu, who provided the
 commercial quantity of Narcotic Medicines to Sayed Javed Khan, at the
 instance of the present applicant. It is argued that this is a discovery of fact
 which was discovered in consequence of the information received from the
 applicant in the custody of a police officer and hence, falls within the
 exception of section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act. 17. Furthermore, it stated by the counsel for the respondent that the
 reliance of the applicant on the judgement of Tofan Singh (supra) will not
 rescue the applicant from his culpability in the present case and he states that
 the statement under section 67 of NDPS Act may not be admissible,
 however, a statement leading to discovery of facts within the knowledge of
 the applicant which further corroborated with the arrest of other accused
 persons as well as seizure of contraband and incriminating material on
 record shall attract the exception of section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act. 18. Mr. Bansal states that the Supreme Court in the judgement of "State
 of Kerela and Ors v. Rajesh and Ors" [2020 SCC Online SC 81], has
 categorically interpreted the mandate and rigours of section 37 of NDPS Act
 and thereby denied for grant of bail to the accused person. He says that the
 Supreme Court in various other judgements titled as " Collector of Customs
 v. Ahmadalieva Nodira " [( 2004) 3 SCC 549], "Union of India v. Ram
 Samujh and Ors. " [1999( 9) SCC 429] and "Union of India v. Rattan Malik " 19. He has also relied on a judgement of the Supreme Court titled as
 " Mehboob Ali v. State of Rajasthan ", [(2016) 14 SCC 640] to emphasise
 his arguments regarding section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act to hold that
 the whereabouts of Mr. Amarjit Singh Sandhu was given by the applicant
 and hence, his statement under section 67 of the NDPS Act made disclosures
 about new facts which were discovered in consequence to the information
 recd from the applicant in the custody of the police officer. Relevant paras
 of Mehboob Ali (supra) read as under- „Relevant‟.--One fact is said to be relevant to another when
 the one is connected with the other in any of the ways referred to
 in the provisions of this Act relating to the relevancy of facts." 15. It is apparent that on the basis of the information furnished by
 accused Mehboob Ali and Firoz and other accused, Anju Ali was
 arrested. The fact that Anju Ali was dealing with forged currency
 notes was not to the knowledge of the police. The statement of
 both the accused has led to discovery of fact and arrest of co-
 accused not known to police. They identified him and ultimately
 statements have led to unearthing the racket of use of fake
 currency notes. Thus the information furnished by the aforesaid
 accused persons vide information memos is clearly admissible
 which has led to the identification and arrest of accused Anju Ali
 and as already stated from possession of Anju Ali fake currency
 notes had been recovered. As per information furnished by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 1383/2022 Page 11 of 20 ARORA Signing Date:13.01.2023 18:24:53 accused Mehboob and Firoz vide memos Exts. P-41 and P-42, the
 fact has been discovered by police as to the involvement of
 accused Anju Ali which was not to the knowledge of the police.
 Police was not aware of accused Anju Ali as well as the fact that
 he was dealing with fake currency notes which were recovered
 from him. Thus the statement of the aforesaid accused Mehboob
 and Firoz is clearly saved by Section 27 of the Evidence Act. The
 embargo put by Section 27 of the Evidence Act was clearly lifted
 in the instant case. The statement of the accused persons has led
 to the discovery of fact proving complicity of the other accused
 persons and the entire chain of circumstances clearly makes out
 that the accused acted in conspiracy as found by the trial court as
 well as the High Court. 18. In Ismail v. Emperor it was held that where as a result of
 information given by the accused another co-accused was found
 by the police the statement by the accused made to the police as to
 the whereabouts of the co-accused was held to be admissible
 under Section 27 as evidence against the accused. 20. Considering the aforesaid dictums, it is apparent that there
 was discovery of a fact as per the statement of Mehmood Ali and
 Mohd. Firoz. Co-accused was nabbed on the basis of
 identification made by accused Mehboob and Firoz. That he was
 dealing with fake currency notes came to the knowledge of police
 through them. Recovery of forged currency notes was also made
 from Anju Ali. Thus the aforesaid accused had the knowledge Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 1383/2022 Page 12 of 20 ARORA Signing Date:13.01.2023 18:24:53 about co-accused Anju Ali who was nabbed at their instance and
 on the basis of their identification. These facts were not to the
 knowledge of the police hence the statements of the accused
 persons leading to discovery of fact are clearly admissible as per
 the provisions contained in Section 27 of the Evidence Act which
 carves out an exception to the general provisions about
 inadmissibility of confession made under police custody contained
 in Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act." 20. Lastly, Mr. Bansal submits that that applicant has to overcome the bar
 of Section 37 of the NDPS Act. He states that these are drug trafficking
 cases and in such cases, it will never be that all the accused persons would
 be found in possession of drugs or that there would be documentary proof
 showing exchange of drugs or money trail. In drug trafficking cases, it is the
 conspiracy of all the accused persons who are involved in the illegal
 handling and transportation of drugs. 21. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and gone through the
 documents. In the present case, I am to see the following: b. It is relevant to note the observations of this Hon'ble Court in State v.
 Navjot Sandhu @Afsan Guru [Crl . A. No. 80/2003] wherein this Hon'ble
 Court, after placing reliance on Pulukuri Kottaya and Ors v. King-
 Emperor [1946SCC OnLine PC 47], and several other judgements of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court and other courts, summarized the law governing Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act as follows: c. Therefore, the disclosure statement made under Section 67 of the
 NDPS Act by the applicant can be held against him only if it falls within
 the exception of Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act. In order to attract Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 1383/2022 Page 14 of 20 ARORA Signing Date:13.01.2023 18:24:53 section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, it is necessary that the information
 given by the applicant lead to discovery of some new fact which was not
 within the knowledge of police and that knowledge was first time derived
 from the disclosure made by the applicant. In addition, the information
 must be in relation to a material object. The discovery of some fact must
 relate to commission of some offence. In the present case, it is the case of
 the prosecution that the statement of the applicant lead to the discovery
 of Amarjit Singh Sandhu who was supposedly the main supplier of
 contraband. d. I am unable to agree. In the present case, the prosecution themselves
 have stated that Amarjit Singh Sandhu was involved in a similar case
 earlier and a case under the NDPS Act bearing no. VIII/28/DZU/2020
 was registered against him. Even NBWs were issued and he has been
 declared as absconding. In this view of the matter, there is no new fact
 which has been disclosed by the applicant regarding Amarjit Singh
 Sandhu dealing with prohibited contraband substances. The said fact was
 already within the knowledge of the respondent. Even otherwise, the
 statement of the applicant has not led to any recovery of contraband.
 Admittedly, Amarjit Singh Sandhu has neither been found, nor arrested
 and hence, there is no question of any contraband having been recovered
 from him. Thus, the disclosure statement made under Section 67 of the
 NDPS Act by the applicant cannot be read against the applicant. 21.2 Recovery of contraband from the applicant
 In the present case there is no narcotic substance or
 psychotropic substance recovered from the applicant or from his Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 1383/2022 Page 15 of 20 ARORA Signing Date:13.01.2023 18:24:53 premises. There is no recovery. The disclosure statement made by the
 applicant, according to me cannot be read against the applicant. The fact
 that the anticipatory bail moved by Amarjit Singh Sandhu has been
 rejected by this Court or that Amarjit Singh Sandhu is absconding,
 cannot be a ground to deny bail to the present applicant. 21.3 Monetary transactions between the applicant and other co- accused namely Sayed Javed Hussain and Amarjit Singh Sandhu
 In the present case, there are no monetary transactions, bank statement
 or finances which shows the sale/purchase of prohibited narcotic substance
 or psychotropic substance between the applicant, Sayed Javed Hussain
 and/or Amarjit Singh Sandhu. Except the statement of Sayed Javed Hussain
 who stated that he used to purchase contraband in Delhi through the
 applicant, there is nothing which shows the sale and purchase of prohibited
 narcotic substance or psychotropic substance between the applicant, Sayed
 Javed Hussain and Amarjit Singh Sandhu

 21.4 Existence of any conspiracy between the applicant and Sayed
 Javed Hussain based on the CDRs
 a. It is stated by learned counsel for the Respondent that the call
 record details show that the applicant was in frequent contact with one
 Amarjit Singh Sandhu on 26.01.2021, i.e, the date when the Tramadol
 tablets were collected by the co-accused Sayed Javed Hussain. He
 further states that according to the CAF/CDR details, location of the
 co-accused Sayed Javed Hussain and the applicant is also found to be
 in Rajouri Garden on 26.01.2021. b. In my view, in the absence of any financial dealings, any
 recovery of narcotic substance or psychotropic substance from the
 applicant or from the premises of the applicant and/or at the behest of
 the applicant, the fact that the CAF/CDR details show calls between
 the applicant and Amarjit Singh Sandhu and the applicant and Sayed
 Javed Hussain, cannot be a ground to deny him the bail in the present
 matter. c. It is for the prosecution to establish the guilt, abetment,
 conspiracy of the applicant beyond a reasonable doubt which is not
 borne out from the CAF/CDR details. 21.5 Applicability of the rigours of section 37 of NDPS Act
 a. In the present case, there is no recovery of commercial quantity from
 the applicant, at the applicant's behest or from the applicant's premises.
 This court in " Shravan Kumar v. State of NCT of Delhi " in Bail
 Application No. 175/2018 has held that:-- b. In the present case there is no recovery from the applicant, Amarjit
 Singh Sandhu has not been arrested, nothing has been recovered at the
 instance of the applicant and there is no material to the link the applicant
 with the recovery of the commercial quantity from Sayed Javed Hussain,
 except Sayed Javed Hussain's own statement. In this view of the matter,
 the rigours of section 37 of the NDPS Act do not apply to the applicant. 22. The case of the prosecution, in so far as the applicant is concerned, is
 circumstantial, i.e. based solely on disclosure statement of the co-accused
 Sayed Javed Hussain which is per se not admissible without there being any
 corroboration. The prosecution has not been able to establish any connection
 between the subject offence and the location/CDRs of the accused persons,
 where the applicant is alleged to be present at the time when the contraband
 was collected by Sayed Javed Hussain. Merely because the applicant had
 been having frequent calls with the co-accused, would not be sufficient to
 hold that applicant is guilty of the subject offence. 23. The Supreme Court in " Surinder Kumar Khanna v. Intelligence
 Officer, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence " [(2018) 8 SCC 271], has held
 that- 24. In this view of the matter and relying on the observations made
 hereinabove, I am inclined to allow the bail application. The applicant is
 directed to be released on bail in Case No. 186/2021, FIR No.
 VIII/02/DZU/2021 registered at P.S. NCB, Delhi under section 8(C) / 29 of
 NDPS Act, pending before the Patiala House Courts, New Delhi, subject to
 the following conditions: (Rupees Fifty Thousand Only) each with 01 surety in the like amount,
 to the satisfaction of the Trial Court; (b) The applicant shall not leave the country and if the applicant has a
 passport, he shall surrender the same to the trial Court; (c) The applicant shall furnish to the IO/SHO concerned his cellphone
 number on which the applicant may be contacted at any time and shall
 ensure that the number is kept active and switched-on at all times; (d) The applicant shall drop a Google pin location from his mobile phone
 to the IO concerned so as to show his whereabouts everyday; (e) The applicant shall not indulge in any act or omission that is unlawful,
 illegal or that would prejudice the proceedings in pending cases, if any; (f) The applicant or his family members/relatives/friends will not contact
 or try to intimidate the complainant or her family or tamper with any of
 the witnesses in anyway. 25. Nothing stated hereinabove shall tantamount to an expression of
 opinion on the merits of the case. 26. A copy of this judgment be communicated by the Registry to the
 concerned Jail Superintendent. JASMEET SINGH, J
 JANUARY 11, 2023
 MS Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 1383/2022 Page 20 of 20 ARORA Signing Date:13.01.2023 18:24:53