RAJNISH BHATNAGAR, J. 1. This is a petition for grant of anticipatory bail in respect of FIR
 No. 0620/2020, U/s 354/376/493/506 IPC registered by Police Station
 Vikas Puri Delhi. 2. Briefly stated, the facts of the prosecution case are that on
 05.09.2020, on the basis of a complaint against the petitioner, his wife
 Mrs. Khushboo Singh and two employees of Guruji Ka Ashram Trust
 (registered) namely Suresh and Bilal, an FIR bearing No. 0620/2020,
 U/s 376/354/493/506 IPC was registered. 3. In the complaint, the complainant alleged that she was a
 permanent resident of Jhansi who got married on 11.12.2010 and was
 living with her husband and in-laws in New Delhi. It is alleged that her
 husband and her parents were firm believers of Guruji, whose temple is
 known as "Bade Mandir", so she also got involved in the same. It is
 further alleged that she met the petitioner in the year 2013, who is the
 nephew of late Guruji and was his sole heir, so he was in full control
 of the "Bade Mandir" and was handling all its affairs and had a
 dominating presence in all the activities of the Mandir. It is further
 alleged that the husband of the complainant and his family members
 were well acquainted with the petitioner and the complainant was also
 introduced to him. It is further alleged that after sometime, petitioner
 started visiting the house of the complainant on the pretext of meeting
 her children and husband, who was closed to him. 4. It is further alleged that the petitioner started persuading her
 husband to come for the functions/satsang of the mandir at Dugri in
 Punjab which is the birth place of Guruji for seva. So, her husband BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 2 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 started going to Dugri taking her and her children alongwith him at
 times. It is alleged that the petitioner introduced them to his wife and
 family and he used to spend a lot of time with them, especially with the
 complainant. It is alleged that the petitioner used to call the
 complainant regularly and would tell her about Guruji miracles and his
 relationship with him. 5. It is further alleged that the petitioner made her husband and her
 father-in-law members of the core committee of the mandir and started
 calling them to the Mandir very frequently and the husband of the
 complainant started going to mandir 5 times a week due to the
 persuasions of the petitioner, whereas earlier he used to go only once a
 week. It is alleged that the marriage of the complainant was a love
 marriage and she had a very happy and stable family but around 2016-
 2017 her relations with her in-laws started straining as the petitioner
 had started poisoning their mind against her by saying that the
 complainant was not an appropriate daughter-in-law. 6. It is further alleged that the petitioner used to influence her in-
 laws by saying that the complainant was not taking care of the family
 as it should be taken and he also used to instigate her in-laws by saying
 that the complainant was not from an affluent background. It is further
 alleged that the complainant was preparing for her Civil Services
 Exams but left her study after her first child and the petitioner made an BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 3 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 issue of it. It is alleged that due to the consistent poisoning by the
 petitioner, some friction started creeping into her relationship with her
 in-laws and her husband and she started feeling lonely, depressed and
 isolated. It is alleged that since the petitioner succeeded in getting the
 complainant isolated from her in-laws and her husband, he manipulated
 the situation to portray himself as her savior. 7. It is alleged that as the petitioner used to talk nicely and politely
 with the complainant, so she started disclosing the problems of her
 matrimonial house to the petitioner, so that he could provide some help
 through his divine intervention. It is alleged that from the beginning of
 2017, the petitioner changed track and started telling the complainant
 that her husband was having an affair with another woman from the
 Sangat and started polluting her mind against her husband and his
 character. It is further alleged that the petitioner's cronies in the sangat
 used to call her and tell her that her husband was having an affair with
 a woman in the sangat. 8. It is further alleged that the petitioner was playing a double game
 by polluting the mind of the complainant against her husband and in-
 laws and mind of the husband and in-laws against her. It is alleged that
 the petitioner used to tell the complainant that she was divinely blessed
 and was meant for bigger things in life and not for the family where she
 was married, as Guruji always liked self made and independent people BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 4 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 and she should also achieve something in life and become independent.
 It is alleged that as a result of this, her relations with her husband
 became bad and they stopped cohabiting since October 2017 and were
 separated for all practical purposes, except that she was staying in the
 same house to look after her daughters. 9. It is alleged that taking advantage of this situation, the petitioner
 started spending more time with her and started giving her all the
 attentions. The petitioner would call her frequently and whenever, the
 complainant visited the mandir, the petitioner used to give her and her
 kids special treatment. It is alleged that the petitioner started calling
 her family for all functions of the mandir and would spend more and
 more time with the complainant. 10. It is alleged that on 27.12.2018, petitioner called her and her
 family to Dugri Mandir for her birthday celebration and while they
 were there he took her aside and started crying and told her that his
 relations with his wife have become very bad and she was traumatizing
 him. It is alleged that petitioner told the complainant that his wife was
 also having an affair with a man named Vijay from Kuwait who was
 also part of the sangat and that he was in the process of obtaining
 divorce. It is alleged that according to the complainant this was a big
 shock to her as to how guruji's nephew life could be so disturbed and
 she became extremely emotional on seeing his state. 11. It is alleged that the petitioner asked for her support in his need
 of hour and the complainant said that she would support him and would
 be there for him. It is alleged that after that day, the petitioner started
 calling her and messaging her more frequently. It is alleged that he
 even took her and her family to Dugri mandir on 03.02.2019. It is
 alleged that in March 2019, the petitioner alongwith his team visited
 Dubai for 4-5 days and after return from Dubai on 21.03.2019 on Holi,
 the petitioner specially came to meet her near her house and
 simultaneously called her husband to mandir for seva. It is alleged
 that when the petitioner came to met her, he told her that he had an
 extremely important information to share with her and stated that while
 he was on flight back from Dubai, he had a dream of Guruji, who told
 him important things about the future of the sangat and their future, but
 Guruji had told the petitioner that he should reveal this information to
 the complainant on a particular date and time and that the complaint
 would have to wait for few days. 12. It is alleged that on 04.04.2019, petitioner called the complainant
 and told her that Guruji had fixed the date i.e. 04.04.2019 as the date
 when he was to reveal Guruji message to her and asked the
 complainant to come to Motibagh. It is alleged that the complainant
 called an Ola Cab and left her residence for the said place, where the
 petitioner was waiting for her. 13. It is alleged that the complainant sat in the car and they
 proceeded towards the temple and when the complainant asked about
 the important information, the petitioner replied that he would tell her
 in few moments and the same would change her life. It is alleged that
 the petitioner instead of going to the temple took her to a farm house
 which is adjacent to the temple and in the farm house, to her surprise,
 nobody was there from the sangat except his driver Suresh and his man
 Friday, Bilal who had come with him in the car. It is alleged that the
 petitioner took the complainant inside the farm house and told her,
 Guruji came in her dream and told him that the complainant was
 petitioner's wife in the past life and was meant to be his wife in this life
 as well and the complainant would give him a male heir to carry on the
 legacy of Guruji. 14. It is alleged that the petitioner convinced her that their meeting
 was not a coincidence and the destiny had brought them together and
 that the Guruji's wish and plan would be fulfilled no matter what. It is
 alleged that the petitioner told the complainant that he had great love
 and affection for her since the time he had seen her but now Guruji had
 communicated his wish in the dream and now this wish is to be
 fulfilled. It is alleged that according to the complainant this was too
 much for her and she was overwhelmed and tears rolled down her eyes. 15. It is alleged that the petitioner gave her some parshad of Guruji,
 saying it was the same sachkhand ka parshad, which was given to only
 few followers. It is alleged that the complainant ate parshad and
 shortly after that she started feeling a bit light headed and all these
 happenings were so overwhelming that she did not bother. It is alleged
 that the petitioner told her that he had got married with his wife in the
 same very place and this is the place where he would marry the
 complainant as this place had the blessings of Guruji. 16. It is alleged that the petitioner then took the complainant to the
 adjacent room where a Havan Kund was ready. According to the
 complainant, she was so overwhelmed by whatever was happening that
 she could not comprehend anything. Thereafter, they both took 7
 rounds of Havan Kund and the petitioner was chanting verses in
 Sanskrit. It is alleged that by the time whole exercise was finished a
 smell of roses permeated the room and it is a strong belief in Sangat
 that whenever Guruji had to show his presence, smell of roses starts
 coming there. 17. It is alleged that the petitioner told her that this fragrance was a
 signal from the Guruji that their marriage had his blessings and this is
 what Guruji wanted. It is alleged that the complainant by that time was
 totally dazed and in his thrall and believed that she had married the
 petitioner and the marriage had blessings of Guruji. It is alleged that BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 8 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 thereafter, the petitioner established physical relations with her as her
 husband in the said farm house, promising that the complainant would
 bear a son, who would be the true heir and reincarnation of Guruji. 18. It is alleged that the petitioner assured the complainant that as
 soon as the alimony issue is settled, his divorce with his wife would be
 finalized and once that was done, he would bring her to stay with him
 at his house with pomp and show and grand reception. It is alleged
 that after this they went back to the temple and the complainant came
 back to her house and thereafter, whenever, she used to visit the temple
 she was treated with much more respect. 19. It is alleged that whenever, the petitioner wanted to meet the
 complainant, he would ask her to take a cab and then either Suresh or
 Bilala would pick her form the decided destination and take her to the
 farm house near the temple where there used to be no one except
 Suresh and Bilal. It is further alleged that whenever she used to visit
 the farm house, the petitioner used to have physical relations with her
 and the petitioner used to tell her that they were doing something as
 husband and wife, which was ordained by Guruji to give a heir to the
 sangat. 20. It is alleged that the complainant had conveyed about her so
 called marriage with the petitioner to her parents, and coming to know
 about the same, her parents came all the way from Jhansi to Delhi and BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 9 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 petitioner came to meet her mother and sought their blessings on
 15.06.2019, and assured her parents that he would very soon take the
 complainant to live with him at his house at Vasant Kunj, the moment
 his divorce would finalize. 21. It is alleged that in September 2019, the husband of the
 complainant came to know about her relations with the petitioner and
 confronted her and the complainant admitted about the relationship and
 thereafter they both applied for divorce which was granted on
 24.10.2019. It is alleged that when the complainant called the
 petitioner and informed him, the petitioner told her that he would try to
 do something but warned her not to disclose anything to her husband
 and repeatedly told her to reconcile with her husband for the moment
 and not to disclose anything as it would ruin his position in the society
 and that he could not leave his wife and children and the relationship
 with the complainant would completely damage his life socially and
 personally. 22. It is alleged by the complainant that at this point of time, she
 realized that she has been cheated and when she kept on calling the
 petitioner, initially he gave evasive replies and thereafter started
 avoiding her calls. It is alleged that the petitioner told the complainant
 that she should forget that she was or would ever be his wife and when
 the complainant told her that he had already married her, on this the BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 10 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 petitioner told her that Shlokas were not marriage Shlokas and there
 was no marriage. 23. It is alleged that the petitioner threatened the complainant to
 keep quiet, otherwise he would destroy and kill her and would harm her
 daughters and also reminded of the revolver, he used to carry with him.
 It is alleged that the complainant even called the petitioner's wife and
 tried to tell her what he had done with her but the wife of the petitioner
 also took his side and said that her husband had a lot of such women as
 he was an incarnation of God and the wife of the petitioner also
 threatened her. It is alleged that in December, 2019 petitioner sent one
 of his servant who informed the complainant that the petitioner had a
 number of photos and videos of her, while she was with him at the farm
 house and if the complainant dare to make any complaint about the
 incident, he would make sure that these photos and videos would be
 released in public. It is alleged that the petitioner also threatened that
 he would get her daughters killed and put false allegations of rape and
 extortion on her husband. 24. It is alleged that the complainant was also reminded about the
 incident of one Sevadar Boby Arora who was implicated in false sexual
 exploitation case by one of the female sevadar of mandir at the behest
 of the petitioner as the said Boby Arora raised his voice against the
 petitioner ill deeds. It is alleged by the complainant that she could BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 11 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 recollect that while she was at the farm house with the petitioner, Bilal
 and Suresh used to loitering outside and now the complainant believe
 that they would have fixed cameras there and have taken her photos
 and videos. It is also alleged by the complainant that while she used to
 be with the complainant, he always used to take her mobile phone on
 the pretext of making some calls and used to keep doing things on her
 phone and the complainant did not object or even check because she
 was under the impression that since he had married her he would do
 her no harm. On the basis of the aforesaid allegations, the present case
 was registered. 25. I have heard Ld. Sr. counsel for the petitioner as well as Ld. ASC
 for the State. The counsel for the victim has also assisted the Ld. ASC
 and made her submissions and also filed reply to the bail application. 26. It is submitted by the Ld. Sr. counsel for the petitioner that the
 victim and her in-laws including her husband were followers of "Bade
 Mandir" and the victim was aware of the marital status of the petitioner
 and that the petitioner is having two children. It is submitted that on
 the date of the alleged incident, victim was also married and she was
 having two children, so there was no question of any promise to marry
 the victim from the side of the petitioner as they both were married and
 having children, therefore, there was no question of marriage between
 the two and relations if any were consensual in nature. 27. It is further contended that the affairs of the trust are being
 looked by all the trusties and not by petitioner alone and he has been
 implicated in this case for the purpose of extortion. It is further
 contended that the relations between the petitioner's family and the
 family of the victim were cordial and they had travelled together for
 vacations and had also attended each other family functions. It is
 further contended that the relations of the petitioner were always
 cordial with his wife and there was no occasion for him to tell the
 victim that his relations with his wife were not cordial or that he would
 be divorcing her. 28. It is contended by the Ld. Sr. counsel for the petitioner that the
 victim and her husband had been demanding around Rs. 50 Lakh from
 the petitioner as they had suffered losses in the business which the
 husband of the complainant was running from his shop at Bhagirath
 Palace and since the petitioner showed his inability to pay the said
 amount, which resulted in the registration of this false and fabricated
 FIR. It is further contended by the Ld. Sr. counsel that after the denial
 of the money, the victim and her husband threatened the petitioner and
 his wife to implicate them in false cases. 29. The Ld. Sr. counsel for the petitioner further contended that
 there is an audio regarding to this effect which clearly exposes the
 malafidies of the complainant's husband and the transcript of the said BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 13 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 audio clip has been placed on record. It is contended that the wife of
 the petitioner therefore, had lodged a complaint dated 02.09.2019
 against the complainant, her husband and her family in P.S. Hauz Khas
 for threat and extortion. 30. It is further contended that as the complainant and her family
 continued with threats, so the wife of the petitioner lodged another
 complaint on 23.10.2019 at a police station in Gurgaon and made
 another complaint on 25.10.2019 to DCP South District and she further
 made complaint on 04.11.2019 at P.S. Hauz Khas, but no action have
 been taken against these complaints. 31. It is further contended that the story of pheras put forth by the
 complainant is absolutely unbelievable as she was aware about the
 marital status of the petitioner and also the fact that her family and
 petitioner's family were at very cordial terms, so nothing was hidden
 from her. It is further contended that the relations if any between the
 petitioner and the victim were consensual in nature and according to
 the victim herself even after 4.4.2019 she established physical relations
 with the petitioner several times which shows that her actions were
 voluntary and consensual from the beginning and despite being married
 with two children the victim kept on having physical relations with the
 petitioner solely with the aim to have a male heir and never objected
 even once to the physical relations with the petitioner. It is further BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 14 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 contended that there are no allegations of use of force by the petitioner
 or any resistance by the complainant on 04.04.2019 which shows that
 the consent of the complainant/victim was voluntary. It is further
 submitted that as per the victim, on 04.04.2019 after taking pheras and
 establishing physical relations, the petitioner and the victim had nice
 talks and thereafter they both left for the temple and there is nothing to
 suggest that the victim was not in her senses or was not able to
 understand what was going on, which clearly shows that she was not
 under intoxication and never lost her consciousness and made physical
 relations with the petitioner out of her own free will. 32. It is further contended that since the victim from the beginning
 knew about the marital status of the petitioner, so there was no
 occasion for the petitioner to have taken the consent by false promise
 of marriage because according to the complainant's own allegations
 she took the decision to take seven pheras with the petitioner in order to
 marry him despite being aware about his marital status and that such a
 marriage would be illegal and null and void and the child so born
 would not be a legal child. 33. It is further contended that there is no farm house behind the
 Bade Mandir as alleged by the complainant. Rather, there is a plot of
 land, where the vegetables are planted and small sheds are made and
 there are other sheds like structures for servants. It is further contended BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 15 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 that the victim is still living with her husband and only with the aim to
 extort money and to involve the petitioner in a false rape case, in
 collusion with her husband, she has taken mutual divorce from her
 husband in September 2019. 34. It is further contended that the victim has not come to the court
 with clean hands as according to her she started living separately from
 her husband since October 2017 as stated by her before the Family
 Court at Rohini from where she obtained mutual divorce, whereas, in
 the present complaint she has stated that she continued living in her
 matrimonial home even after October 2017 which is evident from her
 complaint where she has stated that her husband came to know of her
 relationship with the petitioner in September 2019. It is further
 contended by the Ld. Sr. counsel for the petitioner that there is an audio
 recording, wherein Vikram Chopra, husband of the complainant is
 conversing with the third person claiming to have high level political
 and police contacts and can spend huge amount to implicate the
 petitioner in a false case in order to extort money. It is further
 contended that no dates of alleged physical relations and threats etc.
 have been mentioned by the victim in the complaint and only one date
 has been mentioned i.e. 04.04.2019 which clearly shows that her entire
 story is concocted. 35. It is further contended that when according to the complainant
 the petitioner was eager to have male heir from the victim as per the
 Guruji's wish, then why no child was born, when according to the
 victim they were in physical relationship for about 17 months. It is
 further contended that the victim never disclosed to her in-laws or her
 husband about the behavior of the petitioner and his showing special
 interest in her. It is further contended that the victim concealed her
 relationship with the petitioner from her husband which shows that
 the relations between the two if any were consensual and there are no
 allegations of any force or coercion used by the petitioner against the
 complainant/victim and the victim was mature enough to know the
 consequences of her alleged acts. 36. It is further contended that there are no messages/videos/
 photographs placed on record by the complainant or given to IO in
 support of her claims regarding sending of messages by the petitioner
 or his calling frequently to her. It is further contended that even the
 complainant has made improvements in her statement U/s 164 Cr.P.C .
 It is further contended by the counsel for the petitioner that the
 petitioner has joined the investigation as and when called by the IO and
 nothing is to be recovered from him. 37. It has been lastly contended by the Ld. Sr. counsel for the
 petitioner that there is an inordinate delay in the registration of the FIR. It is further contended that the FIR has been got registered solely with
 the aim to extort money from the petitioner and the complaint has been
 drafted under legal guidance. 38. Ld. Sr. counsel for the petitioner has relied upon the following
 judgments: [(2019) 9 SCC 608] ( h) Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar Vs. The State of Maharashtra and
 Ors. [2018 SCC OnLine SC 3100] ( i) State Vs. Sandeep [(2019) 264 DLT 428] BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 18 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 ( j) X Vs. State [2017 SCC Online Delhi 9890] ( k) Vinod Kumar Vs. State of Kerela [(2014) 5 SCC 678] (l) Bhadresh Bipinbhai Seth Vs. State of Gujrat and another [(2016)
 1 SCC 152) ( m) Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre Vs. State of Maharashtra and
 Others [(2011) 1 SCC 694]. ( n) Arjun Panditrao Khotkar Vs. Kailash Kushanrao Gortantyal and
 Others . [(2020) 7 SCC 1]. 39. On the other hand, Ld. ASC for the State has relied upon two
 Status Reports filed by the State and has argued on the lines of the
 Status Reports. It is submitted by the Ld. ASC that on 07.09.2020
 statement of the victim was recorded U/s 164 Cr.P.C ., wherein she
 supported her allegations made in the FIR and also stated that she was
 given opium on different occasions by the petitioner. 40. It is further contended by the Ld. ASC that the alleged place of
 incident has been photographed and videographed and the place is a
 well built room with air conditioner duly installed in the room and she
 contended that as per the IO it is believed that this room has been
 turned into a servant room after the registration of the FIR as no owner
 would let enjoy his servants luxury of an air conditioner. It is further
 contended by the Ld. ASC that the petitioner used to take the victim in BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 19 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 7 star hotel for physical relations which was duly booked by his
 servant namely Bilala on different occasions. It is contended by the
 Ld. ASC that the complainant could not give her mobile phone which
 she has used between April 2019 to September 2019 as the same was
 with her kids and has been misplaced. It is further submitted by the
 Ld. ASC that in order to recover the photos and videos of the
 complainant which were taken by the petitioner at his farm house on
 04.04.2019, the petitioner was repeatedly interrogated but despite
 interrogation, he did not co-operate. It is further submitted that the
 petitioner on the false pretext of marriage and giving a male heir to the
 throne of Guruji, established physical relations with the
 victim/complainant. 41. Reply to the bail application has also been filed on behalf of the
 victim/complainant. 42. It is submitted in the reply that the petitioner had intoxicated the
 prosecutrix with drug-laced prashad and sexually exploited her. It is
 further stated in the reply that the petitioner deceitfully caused the
 prosecutrix, who was not lawfully married to him, not only to believe
 that she was lawfully married to him but also to have sexual intercourse
 with him under that belief. 43. It is further stated in the reply that accused/petitioner threatened
 the prosecutrix of dire consequences in case she reported the matter. It BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 20 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 is further stated that on 10.09.2019 a telephonic conversation took
 place between the prosexutrix and the accused/petitioner and the
 transcript of the same is enough to infer not only the nature of
 relationship which the accused/petitioner deceived the complainant to
 share with him, and in the said conversation, the prosecutrix was
 pleading with accused/petitioner that in case their affair was known to
 her in-laws, her life would be ruined and she would have no place to
 go. It is further stated that the petitioner falsely assured the prosecutrix
 that he would buy her a flat in Vasant Kunj. 44. It is further stated that in the complaint lodged by the prosecutrix
 she has mentioned that petitioner came to meet her mother and sought
 her blessings on 15.06.2019 and assured that soon he would take the
 prosecutrix with him at his Vasant Kunj house, the moment his divorce
 was finalized. It is further stated that during the course of the
 investigation, there had been an attempt by the petitioner to tamper
 with the spot which is evident from the order dated 26.09.2020 passed
 by Sh. Deeepak Wasan, Special Judge, NDPS. 45. It is further stated that the petitioner has not come to the Court
 with clean hands as alongwith the application for bail the petitioner has
 enclosed a complaint lodged with the police against the husband of the
 complainant and the perusal of the complaint would show that though
 the complaint narrates events which transpired post 03.09.2019, the BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 21 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 stamp of the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Hauz Khas shows the
 date as 02.09.2019 as the date of receipt vide diary No. 115-B. 46. It is stated that at no point of time, the husband of the prosecutrix
 had sought financial assistance from the accused/petitioner. It is
 further stated that the prosecutrix never claimed that she was not aware
 about the marital status of the accused/petitioner on the fateful day;
 rather the deceit practiced by the accused/petitioner consisted in his
 fraudulently inducing the complainant into belief that since he had two
 daughter and his wife could not beget another child because of medical
 complications, he would divorce her; thus he would marry the
 prosecutrix who was also his wife in previous birth so that the male
 heir to the throne of the temple could be born from their wedlock. It is
 stated that the prosecutrix was fraudulently induced into the ceremony
 of marriage and intercourse was done by the petitioner by virtue of
 deceit practiced by him while she was under a drug induced stupor. 47. The Ld. counsel for the victim/complainant has argued on the
 lines of the reply filed. In addition, it is submitted that there was no
 consent on 04.04.2019, the date on which the petitioner has committed
 rape on the victim after intoxicating her. It is further submitted that the
 present case falls U/s 375 (f) part 2 of IPC and the presumption is there
 in favour of the victim. It is further submitted that the delay in filing
 the FIR is not fatal to the case of the victim as the FIR could only be
 got registered with the intervention of D.C.W. BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 22 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 48. It is further submitted by the counsel for the complainant/victim
 that the incident dated 04.04.2019 is a case of no consent and the
 victim was under intoxication and she was unable to understand the
 nature and the consequences of her acts and the same was obtained by
 misrepresentation by the petitioner by projecting himself as her
 husband and that she would be blessed with a male heir to the thrown
 of Guruji as per Guruji wishes and therefore the consent obtained by
 misrepresentation is not a consent at all. 49. Ld. counsel for the complainant has relied upon the following
 judgments: (d) Uday Vs. State of Karnataka (2003) 4 Supreme Court Cases 46. ( e) Kalyan Chandra Sarkar Vs. Rajesh Ranjan Alias Pappu Yadav
 and Another (2004) 7 Supreme Court Cases 528. (f) State of U.P. Through CBI Vs. Amarmani Tripathi (2005) 8
 Supreme Court Cases 21. ( g) Prasanta Kumar Sarkar Vs. Ashis Chatterjee and another (2010)
 14 Supreme Court Cases 496. ( h) Ash Mohammad Vs. Shiv Raj Singh alias Lalla Babu and another
 (2012) 9 Supreme Court Cases 446. ( i) Neeru Yadav Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and another (2014) 16
 Supreme Court Cases 508. ( j) State of Orissa Vs. Mahimananda Mishra (2018) 10 Supreme
 Court Cases 516. ( k) Mahipal Vs. Rajesh Kumar alias Polia and another (2020) 2
 Supreme Court Cases 118. ( l) Chandra Shashi Vs. Anil Kumar Verma (1995) 1 Supreme Court
 Cases 421. ( m) Afzal and Another Vs. State of Haryana and Others (1996) 7
 Supreme Court Cases 397. ( n) Yedla Srinivasa Rao Vs. State of A.P. (2006) 11 Supreme Court
 Cases 615. (o) Sanjay Tyagi Vs. State 2010 SCC OnLine Del 3018. ( p) Anurag Soni Vs. State of Chhattisgarh (2019) 13 Supreme Court
 Cases 1. ( q) A Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another (2020) 10 Supreme
 Court Cases 505. 50. I have gone through the judgments relied upon by the counsel
 for both the parties. As far as the judgments relied upon by the Ld. Sr.
 counsel for the petitioner are concerned, all the judgments deal with the
 situation, where there is or no misrepresentation of fact and as to under
 what circumstances the relationship between the parties can be said to
 be a consensual relationship. 51. As far as the judgments relied upon by the counsel for the
 victim/complainant are concerned, they mainly deal with the
 considerations and parameters which are to be considered at the time of
 grant of bail and what shall the court take into consideration before
 granting or rejecting the bail, whether it is a bail under section 437 Cr.PC., 438 Cr.PC and U/s 439 Cr.P.C . The counsel for the
 complainant/victim has also relied upon two judgments i.e. Yedla
 Srinivasa Rao Vs. State of A.P. (2006) 11 Supreme Court Cases 615
 and Uday Vs. State of Karnataka (2003) 4 Supreme Court Cases 46
 but the same are not applicable to the facts of the present case, as in
 these two cases, the victims were minor unmarried girls which is not so
 in the present case. 52. It is a settled position of law, that every case is to be dealt, based
 on its individual factual matrix and no set principles or straight jacket BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 25 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 formula can be applied, specifically while dealing with bail matters
 where only primafacie view can be taken to appreciate the facts under a
 given case. 53. The severity of the allegations is not the only consideration
 which should result in denial or the grant of bail to the petitioner. The
 totality of facts and circumstances deserves to be seen before a person
 is granted or denied the anticipatory bail. The Supreme Court in case
 titled Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre Vs. State of Maharashtra (2011) 1 SCC 694 has laid down that the Court should be loath to reject
 the grant of anticipatory bail inasmuch as it impinges on the personal
 liberty of a person. Meaning thereby, unless and until there is an
 imminent and a great imperative to have a custodial interrogation of an
 accused, the anticipatory bail does not deserve to be denied. 54. In the present case, as per the FIR, the victim met with the
 petitioner for the first time in the year 2013 as her husband and in-laws
 were deeply involved with the Sangat. The victim and her husband and
 petitioner and his family they all were known to each other for 6 years
 prior to the date of incident and they had gone out on trips number of
 times and they had also been attending family functions at each other's
 place. According to the victim, the petitioner created friction between
 her husband and her in-laws and projected himself as her savior, so the
 victim started confiding in the petitioner and she came close to him. According to the victim, because of the poisoning of her mind by the
 petitioner she distanced herself from her husband and in-laws and even
 stopped cohabiting with her husband since October 2017. But
 strangely enough, neither the husband of the victim nor her in-laws
 asked her the reasons for her distancing herself from the family and
 even her husband did not ask the reason as to why she stopped
 cohabiting. 55. According to the victim, the petitioner polluted her mind against
 her husband and in-laws, but strangely enough, neither the victim asked
 anything from her in-laws and husband nor they asked anything from
 the victim in regard to her indifferent conduct. According to the
 victim, the petitioner had gone to such an extent that he told the victim
 that her husband was having an affair with a lady in Sangat but again
 from the contents of the FIR it appears that she did not bother to
 confront her husband on this aspect also. 56. According to the victim, in order to win over her, the petitioner
 started showing the sad side of his life in order to gain her sympathy
 and support, which according to the victim she gave him as she was
 disturbed how nephew of Guruji can be having such a sorry state of
 affairs. It is pertinent to note here that till 04.04.2019 which the date
 of the incident the petitioner has not even once told the victim that he
 would marry her. Though according to the victim he has stated that BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 27 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 because of the affair of his wife he would be seeking divorce but no
 promise was given to the victim that thereafter he would marry her. 57. As per the allegations in the FIR it was on 04.04.2019 which is
 the date of incident that the petitioner asked the victim to meet her at
 Motibagh, from where the petitioner took the victim to a farm house
 near the temple. As per the allegations in the FIR, the petitioner told
 the victim that she was his wife in his previous life and in this life also
 she is to be her wife and give a male heir to the throne of Guruji. Now
 one cannot lose sight of the fact that the petitioner is a married man
 with two children, the fact which was known to the victim and the
 victim on the said date was also a married lady with two children. So
 in any case, there could not have been a valid marriage between the
 two. According to the victim, she was so overwhelmed by the words
 and actions of the petitioner and that she would be the giver of a male
 heir to the throne of Guruji, so she could not comprehend anything.
 Further, the allegations are that the victim was given some Sachkhand
 Prasad as a result of which she became light headed and even took
 pheras with the petitioner and entered into physical relations with him
 as man and wife. There are no allegations of any violence being
 committed or any intoxicant having been given to the victim or she
 having lost her consciousness. 58. As per the FIR, even thereafter, the petitioner and victim kept on
 establishing physical relations for months together. The victim is an
 educated lady and even preparing for her civil services examination
 was well aware that there was no possibility of any legal marriage
 between the two as they both were having living spouses and children
 on the said date and no proceedings have been initiated by either of
 them to seek divorce. The victim is a matured and educated lady
 having adequate intelligence and maturity to understand the
 significance of the act which she was doing and she was aware that
 both of them were already married having children and nevertheless
 she entered into a relationship akin to marriage with the expectation
 that the petitioner will divorce his wife and she would give a male heir
 to the throne of Guruji. It was only when the petitioner failed to
 divorce his wife that the present FIR was got registered after a delay of
 about a year. 59. The Ld. defence counsel has vehemently argued that there is an
 unexplained delay in registering the FIR and the FIR has been
 registered with the object to extort money from the petitioner.
 However, according to the counsel for the petitioner, the victim has to
 run from pillar to post to get the FIR registered as the petitioner is an
 influential man and only with the intervention of the DCW the FIR
 could be registered. The delay in registering the FIR is not always fatal
 specially in heinous offence like rape but in the instant case and BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 29 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 looking into its peculiar facts and circumstances, what will be the fate
 of this delay on the case of the prosecution will only be seen at the time
 of trial. 60. Now even assuming the allegations against the petitioner to be
 correct, at best, a case of consent of the victim for contracting marriage
 and providing a legal heir to the throne of the Guruji having been
 obtained by fraud, intoxication, misrepresentation is made out. Then
 this fact does not require any custodial interrogation because the
 complainant/victim herself has to testify before the court as and when
 the petitioner is put to trial, as to whether her consent was obtained by
 misrepresentation or fraud or through intoxication. It is also not the
 case that any force, threat or violence were used by the petitioner at any
 point of time. 61. The contention of the Ld. ASC that the telephone instrument is
 required to be recovered also does not convince me as sufficient ground
 for denying the grant of anticipatory bail. It is not denied by either of
 the parties that the conversation by using certain telephone numbers
 and WhatsApp messages and calls were made between the parties.
 This information has already been made available or got recovered and
 both the parties are relying upon various WhatsApp communications
 which can be proved during the trial. 62. In the instant case, as per the Status Report, the petitioner has
 joined the investigation number of times but according to the Status
 Report, the petitioner has not co-operated in the investigation as he has
 failed to supply his mobile instrument from which according to the
 victim, he used to make calls to her. It is also evident from the Status
 report that the victim and her relatives were called for investigation and
 they were asked to provide their mobile phones but they had failed to
 do so. And even as per the Status Report, the victim has stated that she
 cannot give her mobile phone which she has used between April 2019
 to September 2019 as the same was with her kids and has been
 misplaced. Moreover, there are no allegations in the FIR that the
 petitioner had ever taken the photographs or made the videos of the act
 between the two. 63. There are two more considerations which are being taken into
 account for grant of anticipatory bail. Firstly, the petitioner has a fixed
 place of residence and according to the victim/complainant, he is the
 care taker of "Bade Mandir", so there appears to be no chance of his
 fleeing away from the process of law or in other words, he has roots in
 the society and no such apprehension has been expressed by the
 prosecution. 64. So far as the allegations of the petitioner tampering with the
 evidence or threatening the witnesses are concerned, the victim in this BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 31 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 regard has placed on record three complaints, which have been made
 regarding the threats extended by the Sangat to her in-laws. As per the
 status report, on 23.11.2020, during the course of investigation, in order
 to verify the allegations of complainant that one person from Sangat
 namely Sushil Pahwa who is the co-accused in this case has threatened
 the complainant, but when this was inquired into and Sushil Pahwa was
 called for investigation, he told that Vikram Chopra (husband of the
 complainant) who is his friend had called him by sending his location
 but there is nothing in the Status Report to suggest that he threatened
 the complainant or her husband in regard to this case. In any case, this
 aspect of the matter can be taken care of by putting up stringent
 condition on the petitioner. 65. It has also been argued by the counsel for the victim that the
 petitioner has tampered with the place of the incident which according
 to her is also evident from the Status Report and the order of the
 Sessions Judge by virtue of which the bail application of the petitioner
 was dismissed. As per the Status Report, the victim has identified the
 place where the alleged marriage took place between her and the
 petitioner on 04.04.2019. The Status Report further reveals that the
 said place was videographed and photographed and it is a well built
 room with air conditioner installed in the room. The Status Report
 further states that it is believed that this room is turned into a servant
 room after registration of FIR as no owner would afford to give his BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 32 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46 servant the luxury of an air conditioner. Petitioner has placed on record
 photos, showing the condition of the alleged place of incident. Now
 whether it was a luxurious or it was a dilapidated room of farm house,
 the same is a matter of trial as to what type of room it was and would
 be revealed by the victim when she appears in the witness box. In any
 case this aspect of the matter can be taken care of by putting stringent
 condition on the petitioner. 66. During the course of the arguments, it was submitted by the Ld.
 Sr. counsel for the petitioner that the victim has made major
 improvements in her statement recorded U/s 164 Cr.P.C . which was
 recorded on 07.09.2020, so as to cover what she has left in her
 complaint which is a well drafted complaint under some legal
 guidance. On the other hand, the counsel for the victim/complainant
 has submitted that the petitioner could not have access to the statement
 of the victim recorded U/s 164 Cr.P.C and on this she has relied upon
 " A versus State of Uttar Pradesh and another " (2020) 10 SCC 505.
 The Ld. Sr. counsel for the petitioner has stated that the petitioner
 never had access to the statement of the victim U/s 164 Cr.PC . and it
 has also not been filed alongwith the petition, however, whatever
 submissions have been made in regard to the statement U/s 164 Cr.P.C ,
 the same has been made on the basis of the status report and on the
 basis of the submissions made by the Ld. APP before the Court of
 Sessions during the hearing of the bail application. 67. As far as improvements in the statement of the victim recorded
 U/s 164 Cr.P.C is concerned, this is not the stage to analyze such
 improvements and to form an opinion because at this stage, the court
 has to see primafacie case and not to deal with the evidence in detail. 68. Taking into totality the facts and circumstances of this case into
 account, as observed hereinabove the aspect of the physical relations
 between the petitioner and the victim being consensual or otherwise are
 a matter of trial. The petitioner thus, in the event of arrest is allowed to
 be released on anticipatory bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the
 sum of Rs. 2,00,000/- with two sureties of the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the IO/SHO/MM concerned subject to the following
 conditions:- 69. It is made clear that in case these conditions are violated, the
 complainant or the prosecutor shall be free to move an appropriate
 application for revocation of the grant of bail to the present petitioner. 70. Subject to the aforesaid conditions, the petition is allowed and
 disposed of accordingly. All pending applications (if any) are also
 disposed of. 71. Nothing stated hereinabove shall tantamount to the expression of
 any opinion on the merits of this case. RAJNISH BHATNAGAR, J
 MAY 10, 2021
 Sumant BAIL APPLN. 2961/2020 Page 35 of 35 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:10.05.2021 18:46