1. The applicant, who is an advocate, seeks to intervene and

assist this Court in the matter. We decline the application with

liberty to members of the Bar to give their invaluable suggestions

to the learned Amicus Curiae and, through her, place their

viewpoint on record for our consideration. The IA No.315921/2025

is, accordingly, dismissed. 5 IA No.321436/2025 2. The applicant is a 76-year-old senior citizen and a widowed

pensioner. She is also a victim of digital arrest, and her entire

life savings were siphoned from the bank account through a digital

arrest scam. Though an FIR No.59/2025 was registered on

26.08.2025, her voice has not been heard in the corridors of the

Banks and the investigating agencies. 3. We, therefore, call upon the Delhi Police to file a status

report and also hand over the investigation of this FIR to the CBI

in terms of our order dated 01.12.2025. The applicant, in

addition, is permitted to assist this Court through the good

offices of the learned Amicus Curiae. 4. IA No.321436/2025 is, accordingly, allowed.

Main Matter 5. The learned Amicus Curiae has placed on record certain

recommendations which are meant to be considered by: (i) the

Department of Telecommunications, (ii) the telecommunications

service providers, (iii) the Ministry of Telecommunications, and (iv) the Reserve Bank of India and other intermediaries. Similarly,

the learned Amicus Curiae has also proposed the scheme for victim

compensation. 6. Learned Attorney General for India states that the Reserve

Bank of India is present through its counsel and that various

proposals are under active consideration of the banking sector to

infuse a robust mechanism to prevent the fraudulent transactions

normally emanating out of digital arrest scams. He also states 6 that the inter-departmental ministerial consultation will also

consider the recommendations made by the learned Amicus Curiae, as

also those reflected in the directions issued by this Court through

a comprehensive order dated 01.12.2025, while referring the matters

to the CBI for investigation. 7. We have no reason to doubt that all the inter-departmental

ministerial consultations, under the guidance of the learned

Attorney General, shall take an appropriate decision at their end

and apprise this Court. The recommendations made by the learned

Amicus Curiae should also be considered by the concerned quarters. 8. Learned Attorney General informs that the CBI has given inputs

to him, which shall be placed on record at the appropriate time. 9. It is, however, clarified that if the CBI needs any further

direction from this Court for the timely and effective ongoing

investigation, let such prayer be made, formally or otherwise, so

as to prevent further delay. 10. One suggestion that has come forward during the course of the

hearing is that it is not only SIM cards but the SIM box, which is

being issued by the telecommunication service providers, also needs

to be strictly regulated. We direct the telecommunication service

providers to immediately address this issue and take all necessary

measures to prevent the issuance of SIM boxes. 11. List on 13.01.2026.