The petitioner-accused No.1 is before this Court seeking

grant of bail under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. in Crime

No.136/2023 of Yelahanka New Town Police Station, on the file

of the learned Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge (F.T.S.C-

IV), Bengaluru City, registered for the offences punishable

under Sections 376(2)(n) and 376 (3) of the Indian Penal Code,

1860 (for short ' IPC '), sections 5(1) , 6 and 8 of the Protection

of Children from Sexual Offences, Act, 2012 (for short ' POCSO

Act ') and Section 67(B) of the Information Technology Act,

2000 (for short ' IT Act '), on the basis of the first information

lodged by the informant viz., Kumari Keerthana L.N. 2. Heard Sri.Shashikanth.R., learned counsel for the

petitioner, Smt.Shilpa Prasad, learned counsel for respondent

No.2 and Sri.Rahul Rai.K., learned High Court Government -3- NC: 2024:KHC:19791 CRL.P No. 3290 of 2024 Pleader for respondent No.1-State. Perused the materials on

record. 3. In view of the rival contentions urged by the

learned counsel for both the parties, the point that would arise

for my consideration is: My answer to the above point is in 'Negative' for the

following: 4. The petitioner-accused No.1 is before this court

seeking grant of bail. He is said to have committed the offences

as stated above. He was apprehended on 03.05.2023 since

then he is in judicial custody. The father of the victim girl aged

about 16 years filed the first information against accused Nos.1

and 2 making specific allegations. It is stated that the

informant and her foster father are staying in an apartment.

Accused No.2 is the security guard working there and he

induced the victim girl and committed sexual harassment.

Accused No.1 i.e., petitioner is a plumber by profession and -4- NC: 2024:KHC:19791 CRL.P No. 3290 of 2024 visited the apartment. He also induced the victim girl and by

taking advantage of her innocence, kidnapped her and

committed penetrative sexual assault repeatedly. He took the

photos and the videos of the victim and started blackmailing

the victim. The investigation is completed and charge sheet is

filed. As per the medical reports, the hymen of the victim was

found ruptured and it was found that she was subjected to

sexual assault. 5. The contention of the learned counsel for the

petitioner that there is delay in lodging the first information and

the informant had consultation with the police before filing the

same, cannot be a ground to discard the first information as

embezzled one as there is no such material available before

this Court to state that the informant had improved his version

by gaining time. on the other hand, it is the contention of the

informant that even though she went to the police station for

lodging the first information, the Investigating Officer asked her

to come on the next day by getting the information written in

Kannada and accordingly, she went to the police station on the

next date. Therefore, it cannot be said that there is

embezzlement in the information provided by the informant. -5- NC: 2024:KHC:19791 CRL.P No. 3290 of 2024 6. The second contention raised by the learned

counsel for the petitioner is that the date of birth of the victim

is not proved by the prosecution. The charge sheet produced

before the Court discloses that the prosecution is relying on the

copy of admission registrar extract issued by Presidency School

where the victim had studied from Grade-I to Grade-III. The

prosecution has also produced the Transfer Certificate of the

victim and according to both these documents, the date of birth

is 30.12.2007. Therefore, prima facie, the victim was aged

about 16 years at the time of incident. It is pertinent to note

that the victim was examined as PW.1 and her foster father as

PW.2. Both these witnesses have totally supported the case of

prosecution. 7. The contention of the learned counsel that there are

contradictions or omissions or even improvement in the

evidence of the witnesses cannot be appreciated at this stage

as it is for the trial Court to appreciate and weigh the evidence

after full fledged trial. Suffice for this Court to say that prima

facie the victim has withstood her cross-examination so also

her father PW.2. NC: 2024:KHC:19791 CRL.P No. 3290 of 2024 8. The third contention raised by the learned counsel

for the petitioner is that accused No.2 has already been

enlarged on bail and therefore, the petitioner is also entitled to

be enlarged on bail on the ground of parity. The allegations

made against accused Nos.1 and 2 are entirely different. As I

have already stated, the allegation against accused No.2 is that

he being the security guard in the apartment where the victim

was residing sexually harassed her by improperly touching the

parts of the body. But the allegation against the present

petitioner is that he being the plumber, visited the apartment,

induced the victim girl, took her to a place and committed

penetrative sexual assault repeatedly, taken photos and video

and started blackmailing her. He used to call her repeatedly

and used to collect obscene photos of the victim. The allegation

made against the petitioner is of very serious nature and there

are sufficient materials available to prima facie establish the

same. The trial in the matter has already begun. It is stated

that four or five witnesses are already examined. When the

victim and the informant have supported the case of

prosecution, there are no reasons to disbelieve the story of the

prosecution. As I have already stated the victim was aged

about 16 years at the time of incident, whereas the petitioner is -7- NC: 2024:KHC:19791 CRL.P No. 3290 of 2024 24 years of age. Looking to the nature and seriousness of the

offences, I am of the opinion that the petitioner is not entitled

for grant of bail. 9. Learned counsel for the petitioner places a bunch of

five decisions in support of his contention but, he could not

draw the attention of the Court to any particularly portion of

the judgments for seeking bail of the petitioner. 10. Accordingly, I answer the above point in the

negative and proceed to pass the following: