Both the cross appeals are directed against the order of Ld.

CIT (A)-23, New Delhi dated 23.02.2016 for A.Y. 2005-06. ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016 2. We have heard Ld. Representatives of both the parties and

perused the material available on record. 3. Brief facts of the case are that assessee is an individual filed

his return of income u/s 139 of the Income Tax Act, 1961

(hereinafter for short called as the 'Act') on 29.10.2005 declaring

total income of Rs. 3,41,612/-. The AO issued notice u/s 148 of

the Act after recording the reasons. The reasons are reproduced

in the assessment order in which it is noted that Punjab State

Vigilance Bureau has conducted a search operation on 17.05.2007

at the business as well as the residential premises of the assessee. The Punjab Police Vigilance Bureau registered FIR No. 5 dated

23.03.2007 in connection with Ludhiana City Centre Scam an

assessee was arrested on 17.05.2007. The police have recovered a

computer and pen drive from the assessee. The print out from the

pen drive showed that the assessee had received credit entries

from various persons. In the said pen drive, ledger accounts of

various persons/parties have been mentioned. In the charge sheet

filed by the police, it was clearly brought out that the entries in the

pen drive represent unaccounted income of various persons being 3 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

deposited with the assessee. As such, the pen drive represents the

accounts of such unaccounted transactions which were being kept

and maintained by the assessee. The peak credit of all the credit

entries maintained in each and every ledger account has been

worked out which comes to Rs. 43,67,62,555/-. The asserssee

has however, shown salary and interest income in the return of

income. These credit entries are not shown in the return of

income. The AO, therefore, had reasoned to believe that income

chargeable to tax has escaped assessment. The assessee in

response to notice issued u/s 148 of the Act submitted before the

AO that original return filed may be treated as return having been

filed u/s 148 of the Act. The AO at the reassessment stage asked

for the explanation of the assessee with regard to the credit/debit

entries appearing on these papers which are taken out from the

pen drive. The assessee submitted that from these papers the

statement has been prepared after posting day wise each entry

reflected in the individual accounts of the statements from the

alleged pen drive and consolidated the same to find out balance of

the day. The said entries are verifiable from the statement of

accounts. According to the above statement, peak balance as per 4 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

details enclosed is Rs. 1,82,59,248/- as on 10.04.2004. However,

this peak balance has been worked out as per instruction of the

AO and since the alleged pen drive does not belong to the

assessee, he has nothing to do with the said peak balance. The

AO noted that pen drive was recovered from the assessee which

contained the accounts of political persons whose un-

accounted/black money was being managed by the assessee. The

pen drive has direct co-relation with the books of accounts of the

assessee. The explanation of assessee that the pen drive does not

belong to him was rejected. The AO also prepared working of the

peak credit and mentioned at pages 7 to 10 of the assessment

order and the total of the same comes to Rs. 43,67,62,555/- which

was treated as unexplained credit and addition was made to the

income of the assessee. 4. The assessee challenged the addition before the Ld. CIT (A) as

well as challenged the reopening of the assessment in the matter. The submissions of the assessee are reproduced in the appellate

order in which the assessee explained that the ITAT had decided

the case of the assessee for earlier assessment years i.e. 2001-02, 5 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

2002-03 & 2003-04, wherein the assessee has been granted the

benefit of calculation of peak balance and telescoping thereof in

the manner discussed above. Keeping the said decision in view,

the addition, if any, at all has to be limited to the peak credit of

Rs. 1,82,59,348/- as on 10.04.2004 as telescope for the maximum

peak balance of earlier years i.e. Rs. 46,16,837/- for AY 2003-04

resulting in net addition, if at all, of Rs. 1,36,42,861/-. The

assessee also made submissions against reopening of the

assessment. The assessee in the rejoinder also explained that the

process and methodology adopted by the assessee in earlier years

also has judicial sanction because the peak statements were filed

before the authorities below and the Tribunal also accepted the

same while deciding appeals of the assessee for assessment years

2002-03, 2003-04 & 2004-05. The said orders of the Tribunal

support, affirm and approve the methodology adopted by the

assessee to determine the peak credit for the respective years and

accordingly, there is no course legal, factual or any other logic

reason to denote from the same. It was, therefore, submitted that

AO should have adopted the calculation of the peak credit as is

directed by the Tribunal in earlier year. ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016 5. The Ld. CIT (A) confirmed the reopening of the assessment

and dismissed this ground of appeal of the assessee. The Ld.CIT

(A) as regards the working of the peak credit noted that the

Tribunal has decided the issue in earlier year and have considered

the method of working of the peak credit submitted by the

assessee to the AO during assessment proceedings. The working

of the peak credit, telescoping and set off all the entries and set off

of the opening balances have been accepted. The Ld. CIT (A)

forwarded the copy of the peak credit working submitted by the

assessee to AO for filing a remand report. The AO filed the

remand report in which the AO explained the peak credit is

worked out on similar lines as was considered in earlier years AY

2002-03 and 2003-04. However, examination of the working of

peak balances showed that assessee while working out the peak

balances had also debited the expenses incurred. This method is

incorrect for working peak balance. The AO, therefore, reported

that the peak after excluding the debits on account of expenses for

assessment year under appeal would come to Rs. 5,10,51,972/- as

against claim of assessee of Rs. 1,82,59,248/-. The Ld. CIT (A)

accepted the contention of the AO and noted that the debit entries 7 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

and expenditure cannot be considered in the peak and

accordingly, directed the AO to modify the assessment as per fresh

peak balance working considered in the order subject to

adjustment of opening balances as directed above. The appeal of

the assessee was accordingly, partly allowed. 6. The assessee in his appeal challenged the addition of the

peak credit to the extent of Rs. 5,10,51,972/- and challenged the

reopening of the assessment u/s 148 of the Act. The Revenue in

their appeal challenged the deletion of addition of Rs. 38,57,10,583/- on account of unexplained credit u/s 68 of the

Act. 7. We have heard the Ld. Representatives of both the parties. 8. Ld. DR relied upon the order of the AO and submitted that

pen drive was seized by the Punjab Vigilance Bureau from the

possession of the assessee on the basis of which AO made an

addition of peak amount of credit u/s 68 of the Act. The CIT (A)

directed the set off of opening balance of cash available against the

said peak credit. The AO had worked out the peak of individual

ledger account while the assessee consolidated all the accounts in 8 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

the working of the peak. The ITAT decided the appeals for

assessment years 2001-02 to 2004-05 in which the working of the

peak as per assessee has been accepted and set off has been given

of the opening balance. The orders of the Tribunal dated

21.06.2013 and 31.01.2014 are filed in the Paper Book. For AY

2005-06 the order of the CIT (A) is dated 23.02.2016 on the basis

of the remand report dated 22.01.2016 and both the dates are

subsequent to the order of the Tribunal in earlier years. The AO in

the remand report mentioned that the assessee in his working of

peak had also considered the application of income and expenses

in the rotation of funds as the cash available which is incorrect. The findings of the AO have been upheld by the CIT (A). Therefore,

appeal of the assessee is not fully covered by decision of the ITAT. 9. Ld. DR submitted that the issue of reopening of the

assessment u/s 148 of the Act is covered against the assessee by

order of the Tribunal for earlier years (supra). Ld. DR referred to

the statement of peak filed in the Paper Book to show that

assessee has taken into consideration the expenses and interest

which AO has excluded. Before the ITAT expenses were not 9 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

referred, therefore, the AO may be directed to exclude the

expenses while computing the peak. Set off of Rs. 46,16,387/- of

AY 2003-04 is not available to assessee as it also contains the

expenses. 10. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for the assessee reiterated

the submissions made before the authorities below and submitted

that both the issues are covered by the order of the ITAT 'Delhi'

Bench in the case of the assessee. He has submitted that the

issue of peak is covered in favour of the assessee and assessee is

entitled for benefit of set off of Rs. 46,16,387/- for AY 2003-04

upon which assessee had already paid the taxes. He has

submitted that peak contains all entries found in the pen drive

which was provided to the assessee. Similar peak was calculated

in earlier years which have been found accepted by the Tribunal. Therefore, all the issues are covered by earlier orders of the

Tribunal and peak may be accordingly calculated. 11. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the

material available on record. The ITAT 'B' Bench Delhi in the case

of the same assessee for assessment years 2001-02, 2002-03 & 10 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

2003-04, vide order dated 21.06.2013 decided the identical issue

and appeals of the assessee have been partly allowed and

departmental appeal has been dismissed. 12. The findings of the Tribunal in pars 6.13 to 11 are

reproduced as under: 6.14. Assessee claims to have submitted all these details before AO,
 who though gave some cursory interest adjustments but did not look
 into all other details refusing the assessee claims summarily. They
 were filed before CIT(A) again who called for remand report,
 however CIT(A) also did not deal with the core issue and gave some
 adjustments here and there. Thus assessment has not been framed
 in a reasonable and proper manner. To ensure high pitched
 assessments the huge additions have been made one way or other
 in a capricious manner. 6.15. Ld counsel took us through the relevant entries to demonstrate
 how the funds have been reutilized from one a/c to other, the effect
 of contra entries and mistakes committed by lower authorities. While
 working out the printouts it will be disastrous to add each and every
 entry without appreciating that same moneys have been reused.
 Such an arbitrary practice will lead to disastrous result and
 unthinkable additions which are neither justified nor warranted by
 the material on record. It has been pleaded that assessee has 11 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

discharged its burden in explaining each and every aspect
necessary for arriving at a fair and reasonable assessment. Lower
authorities have failed to rebut the discharge of burden by the
assessee in reconciling his peak credit working. Therefore the peak
working as offered by the assessee deserves to be accepted. 6.16. After careful consideration of facts, circumstances and
material available on record, case laws and rival contentions it will
be desirable to dwell on the aspects of peak credit; telescoping, set
off of entries, availability of opening balance and its effect in such
print out; this is necessary for arriving at a fair estimate of the
deemed income of the assessee for AY 2002-03 and 2003-04. 6.17. Such concepts are well known in the law with a rider of
caution that they are question of facts and depend on case to case.
Hon'ble Supreme court and various other High Courts have laid
down the propositions that such adjustments can be applied while
making the assessments in the cases of working out of seized and
incriminating documents in case of repetitive transactions. 6.18. We shall start with the theory of the department that assessee
is acting as a manager or administrator of funds for 148 other
persons. Though some names are given however no inference are
drawn by authorities below. Therefore, we leave this issue here.
More so they become third parties to the proceedings and any
observations are undesirable and may impinge on principles of
natural justice. The departmental theory of assessee being a fund
manager for others is supported by the fact that assessee filed
complete day to day details and entry by entry details of contents of
print outs available with the department. They all are part of the
paper books. They were submitted before Assessing officer and
CIT(A). Remand report was submitted by AO on CIT(A)'s initiative. 6.19. From the explanation of the entries and departmental theory,
it emerges that assessee was working as the fund manger or
administrator for others. While dealing with the issue this fact is to
be kept in reckoning. 6.20. Presumption u/s 292C will not be applicable in this case as
admittedly there was no search proceedings under income tax act on
the assessee. A statutory presumption can be raised against
assessee when the prescription of law warrants it. In the absence of
enabling statutory provision such presumption can not be propped
up against assessee. Since there was no search on assessee u/s
132 under income tax act, presumption u/s 292C can be applied to 12 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

him. However the assessee case comes in the ken of sec 68 about
giving reasonable explanation of cash credits found from his record. 6.21. This scenario does not alter the situation materially in as much
as assessee has to discharged the burden cast by deeming fiction of sec. 68 . The burden is by and large similar to sec 292C. 6.22. The department proceeds on premise that assessee manages
funds for 148 person or so and keeps a record thereof. Assessee
filed every detail in date wise and entry wise manner. AO does not
consider it objectively and allows some cosmetic reduction of
interest. Issue is carried in appeal, all the documents are filed again
before CIT(A) who calls for a remand report from AO. The course of
events reveals that assessees details are again not considered
objectively and some prima facie adjustments are reduced by CIT(A). 6.23. The peak credit theory and the benefit of telescoping is
generally accepted as it is logical and acceptable provided there is
reasonable material to show that withdrawals or repayments could
have been available on the date of subsequent credit or repayment,
more so, in the accounts of different persons. The fact that assessee
has been held to be a fund manager for 148 persons for which the
moneys are frequently withdrawn or deposited as per these case
laws and facts and circumstances of this case assessee will be
entitled to work out a peak credit and avail the benefits of
telescoping. We may hasten to add that it is not a proposition of law
but the exercise is to be undertaken on the inferences based on
normal preponderance of probabilities and based on normal human
conduct. The department is entitled to displace such propositions
advanced by the assessee on cogent reasons and not by summary
rejection of the explanation. In the next para we will be dealing with
various case laws right upto Hon'ble Supreme Court where this
factual preposition has been upheld subject to certain conditions. 6.24. The important question which arises is whether the assessee
has discharged it's in explaining the entries contained in the pen
drive and its print outs in terms of sec 68 or any other presumption
statutory or otherwise which may be raised in the context of the
facts of this case. In our considered view assessee has discharged
it's onus in explaining these entries by filing the details before AO,
CIT(A) and in remand proceedings. Assessee has pushed the ball in
the court of department by demonstrating from the details of entries
that he manages the funds for others. In the course thereof he
requests for necessary working of peak credit, correction of
mistakes, contra entries and considering the claims of available
opening balances. The claim of opening balances is made as the 13 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

data recovered pertains to three years and assessees fund
managing activities span to three years. Despite assessees diligence
in filing all the details the authorities below fail to consider the
assessee's objections and workings. In our considered view the facts
and circumstances of the case and departmental theory warrant
application of peak theory, telescoping, correction of mistakes and
taking cognizance of journal/contra entries. In our view ratio of
decisions in the cases of - Anantharam Veerasinghaiah & Co.
(supra); K.S.M. Guruswamy Nadar & Sons (supra); Singhal
Industrial Corpn. (supra); Kantilal & Bros. (supra); Sanjay Kumar
Jain (supra); & Ishwardass Mutha (supra), support the assessee's
case for peak credit and telescoping benefits. 6.25. In consideration of foregoings we have no hesitation to hold
that assessee has discharged his primary burden in explaining the
entries in terms of sec. 68 or any other presumption which may be
raised in behalf of the entries in the print outs. Department in
effective and convincing terms has failed to rebut the same except
giving some general observations that the claims can not be
considered. In our view we have to estimate the undisclosed income
of the assessee for AYs2002-03 & 03-04 keeping in mind our
observations and conclusions in this behalf. 6.26. In the wake of these observation we proceed to decide the
quantum of undisclosed income of the assessee as under: Taxable income for AY 2003-04 Rs. 9,27,077/- 7. Thus, the undisclosed income to be included in the assessee's
income is determined at Rs. 36,89,310/- for A.Y. 2002-03 and Rs.
9,27,077/- for A.Y. 2003-04. These grounds are accordingly partly
allowed. ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016 8. Apropos the remaining ground for AY 2002-03 in respect of
 addition of Rs. 9,21.200/- being alleged unaccounted payment of US
 $ 20,000 transferred to Park Young Tae, it is pleaded that his
 statement before Enforcement Directorate was taken behind his
 back. Assessee was neither a party to ED proceedings nor the
 statement was taken in his presence. Only on the basis of a third
 party statement before some other agency Assessing officer has
 made the addition without giving opportunity to cross examine Mr.
 Young. This clearly violates the principles of natural justice embodied
 in the maxim "audi alteram partem". We find merit in the argument of
 ld. Counsel. The impugned addition cannot be made in the hands of
 the assessee unless proper opportunity to defend himself against the
 allegation including the cross-examination of Mr. Young and the
 result of proceedings before the E.D. authorities are to be considered.
 This ground is set side restored back to the file of assessing officer to
 decide the same afresh in accordance with law. 9. Apropos the revenue's appeal for A.Y. 2002-03, regarding the
 properties sold by the assessee, the sale consideration has been
 received by the assessee through a registered sale deed. There is no
 allegation about violation of any circle rate or comparative sale
 instance. The purchaser of the property has not been examined so as
 to raise any doubt about any on money received by the assessee. In
 our view when a property is sold by a registered document, the
 addition cannot be made purely on the basis of a valuation report
 which is only in the nature of an opinion. CIT(A) while deleting the
 addition, has rightly relied on the Hon'ble Delhi High Court judgment
 in the case of CIT In view thereof we do not find any infirmity in the
 order of CIT(A), which is upheld. 9.1. Since we have disposed of the assessee's appeals in above
 manner, there is no need to deal with the assessee's ground about
 additional evidence. 10. In the result, revenue's appeal is dismissed. 11. In the result, assessee's appeal for A.Y. 2001-02 is allowed; for
 A.Y. 2002-03 & 2003-04 are partly allowed. Revenue's appeal for AY
 2002-03 is dismissed." 13. The ITAT 'B' Bench Delhi in the case of the same

assessee for AY 2004-05, vide order dated 31.01.2014

following its earlier order dated 21.06.2013 (supra) allowed the 15 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

appeal of the assessee partly. The findings of the Tribunal in

para 6 to 8 of the order are reproduced as under: assessee vehemently claims to have fully reconciled the
 details about each and every entry. The details working
 thereof were filed before AO and thereafter before Id
 CIT(A), who called for w remand reports also. These
 details are placed before us also on the various paper
 books. Some of the relevant pages thereof are
 mentioned above. ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

 6.12 AO and CIT(A) have given some rebates or set off
 of interest receipts and payments. Assessee claims that
 his reconciliation of entities is supported by facts and
 material on record and is backed by the legally
 established propositions of peak credit working,
 telescoping and set off, which have not been given to
 assessee despite the remand reports. It is agitated that
 assessee's valid contentions have not been considered
 at all. On one hand assessee is considered as money'
 manager for others, thus his ostensible role will be to
 hold such funds in trust for others, receive or pay them
 on the instructions of principals and to earn some
 managerial remuneration thereon. On the other hand in
 the guise of a fiction of presumption u/s 292C all the
 funds are being treated as owned by the assessee and
 on top of that proper adjustments of peak credit
 emerging from the pen drive is being refused to be
 worked by the department. That apart the other logical
 claims of set off role over, correction of mistakes and
 credit of opening balances which are emerging from the
 same contents i.e. print outs of pen drive is not being
 allowed to assessee. The assessment of undisclosed
 income is thus arbitrary and patently against the
 settled judicial propositions and departments own way
 of working in other survey, search or reassessment
 cases in which such principles are routinely applied. " 7. As far as determination of total unexplained cash credits are
concerned, the Tribunal has held that peak credit is to be worked
out and income assessed in any earlier assessment year which is
opening balance of the current AY is to be excluded. In the present
AY the income of AY 2003-04 determined at Rs.92,7,077/- is to be
excluded from the peak credit because this amount was available to
the assessee on the first day of the accounting year. The Tribunal
has made discussion with regard to this issue from Paragraph No.
6.13 which read as under: ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016 (ii) From the details a summary of mistakes, opening balances
(debit or credit as the case may be), contra entries etc is furnished to
work out the correct amount of credits emerging from the print outs. (iii) These details are further supported by working of peak credit for
each year from, which are filed by assessee. 6.14. Assessee claims to have submitted all these details
before AO, who though gave some cursory interest
adjustments but did not look into all other details refusing
the assessee claims summarily. They wee filed before CIT(A)
again who called for remand report, however CIT(A) also did
not deal with the core issue and gave some adjustments
here and there. Thus assessment has not been framed in a
reasonable and proper manner. To ensure high pitched
assessments the huge additions have been made one way
or other in a capricious manner. 6.15. Ld counsel took us through the relevant entries to
demonstrate how the funds have been reutilized from one
a/c to other, the effect of contra entries and mistakes
committed by lower authorities. While working out the
printouts it will be disastrous to add each and every entry
without appreciating that same moneys have been reused.
Such an arbitrary' practice will lead to disastrous result and
unthinkable additions which are neither justified nor
warranted by the material on record. It has been pleaded
that assessee has discharged its burden in explaining each
and every> aspect necessary for arriving at a fair and
reasonable assessment. Lower authorities have failed to
rebut the discharge of burden by the assessee in reconciling
his peak credit working. Therefore the peak working as
offered by the assessee deserves to be accepted. 6.16. After careful consideration of facts, circumstances and material
available on record, case laws and rival contentions it will be desirable
to dwell on the aspects of peak credit; telescoping, set off of entries,
availability of opening balance and its effect in such print out; this is
necessary for arriving at a fair estimate of the deemed income of the
assessee for AY 2002-03 and 2003-04. 6.17. Such concepts are well known in the law with a rider
of caution that they are question of facts and depend on
case to case. Hon 'ble Supreme court and various other High
Courts have laid down the propositions that such
adjustments can be applied while making the assessments 18 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

in the cases of working out of seized and incriminating
documents in case of repetitive transactions. 6.18. We shall start with the theory) of the department that
assessee is acting as a manager or administrator of funds
for 148 other persons. Though some names are gjyen
however no inference are drawn by authorities below.
Therefore, we leave this issue here. More so they become
third parties to the proceedings and any observations are
undesirable and may impinge on principles of natural
justice. The departmental theory of assessee being a fund
manager for others is supported by the fact that assessee
filed complete day to day details and entry by entry details
of contents of print outs available with the department. They
all are part of the paper books. They were submitted before
Assessing officer and CIT(A). Remand report was submitted
by AO on CIT(A) 's initiative. 6.19. From the explanation of the entries and departmental
theory, it emerges that assessee was working as the fund
manger or administrator for others. While dealing with the
issue this fact is to be kept in reckoning. 6.20. Presumption u/s 292C will not be applicable in this
case as admittedly there was no search proceedings under
income tax act on the assessee. A statutory presumption can
be raised against assessee when the prescription of law
warrants it. Jn the absence of enabling statutory provision
such presumption can not be propped up against assessee.
Since there was no search on assessee u/s 132 under
income tax act, presumption u/s 292C can be applied to
him. However the assessee case comes in the ken of sec 68
about giving reasonable explanation of cash credits found
from his record. 6.21. This scenario does not alter the situation materially in
as much as assessee has to discharged the burden cast by
deeming fiction 6f sec. 68 . The burden is by and large similar
to sec 292C. 6.22. The department proceeds on premise that assessee
manages funds for 148 person or so and keeps a record
thereof Assessee filed every detail in date wise and entry
wise manner. AO does not consider it objectively and allows
some cosmetic reduction of interest. Issue is carried in
appeal, all the documents are filed again before CIT(A) who
calls for a remand report from AO. The course of events 19 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

reveals that assessees details are again not considered
objectively and some prima facie adjustments are reduced by
CIT(A). 6.23. The peak credit theory and the benefit of telescoping is
generally accepted as it is logical and acceptable provided
there is reasonable material to show that withdrawals or
repayments could have been available on the date of
subsequent credit or repayment, more so, in the accounts of
different persons. The fact that assessee has been held to be
a fund manager for 148 persons for which the moneys are
frequently withdrawn or deposited as per these case laws
and facts and circumstances of this case assessee will be
entitled to work out a peak credit and avail the benefits of
telescoping. We may' hasten to add that it is not a
proposition of law but the exercise is to be undertaken on the
inferences based on normal preponderance of probabilities
and based on normal human conduct. The department is
entitled to displace such propositions advanced by the
assessee on cogent reasons and not by summary) rejection of
the explanation. In the next para we will be dealing with
various case laws right upto Hon'ble Supreme Court where
this factual preposition has been upheld subject to certain
conditions. 6.24. The important question which arises is whether the
assessee has discharged it's in explaining the entries
contained in the pen drive and its print outs in terms of sec
68 or any other presumption statutory> or otherwise which
may be raised in the context of the facts of this case. In our
considered view assessee has discharged it's onus in
explaining these entries by filing the details before AO, CIT(A)
and in remand proceedings. Assessee has pushed the ball in
the court of department by demonstrating from the details of
entries that he manages the funds for others. In the course
thereof he requests for necessary working of peak credit,
correction of mistakes, contra entries and considering the
claims of available opening balances. The claim of opening
balances is made as the data recovered pertains to three
years and assessees fund managing activities span to three
years. Despite assessees diligence in filing all the details the
authorities below fail to consider the assessee's objections
and workings. In our considered view the facts and
circumstances of the case and departmental theory warrant
application of peak theory, telescoping, correction of mistakes 20 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

and taking cognizance of journal/contra entries. In our view
ratio of decisions in the cases of- Anantharam
Veerasinghaiah & Co. (supra); K.S.M. Guruswamy Nadar &
Sons (supra); Singhal Industrial Corpn. (supra); Kantilal &
Bros, (supra); Sanjay Kumar Jain (supra); & Ishwardass
Mutha (supra), support the assessee's case for peak credit
and telescoping benefits. 6.25. In consideration of foregoings we have no hesitation to
hold that assessee has discharged his primary burden in
explaining the entries in terms of sec. 68 or any other
presumption which may be raised in behalf of the entries in
the print outs. Department in effective and convincing terms
has failed to rebut the same except giving some general
observations that the claims can not be considered. In our
view we have to estimate the undisclosed income of the
assessee for AYs2002-03 & 03-04 keeping in mind our
observations and conclusions in this behalf.
6.26. In the wake of these observation we proceed to decide
the quantum of undisclosed income of the assessee as under: Taxable income for AY 03-04 Rs. 9,27,077/- 7. Thus, the undisclosed income to be included in the
assessee's income is determined at Rs. 36,89,310/- for A.Y.
2002-03 and Rs. 9,27,077/- for A.Y. 2003-04. These grounds
are accordingly partly allowed. 8. Apropos the remaining ground for AY 2002-03 in
respect of addition of Rs. 9,21.200/- being alleged
unaccounted payment of US $ 20,000 transferred to Park
Young Tae, it is pleaded that his statement before
Enforcement Directorate was taken behind his back.
Assessee was neither a party to ED proceedings nor the 21 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

 statement was taken in his presence. Only on the basis of a
 third party statement before some other agency Assessing
 officer has made the addition without giving opportunity to
 cross examine Mr. Young. This clearly violates the principles
 of natural justice embodied in the maxim "audi alteram
 partem We find merit in the argument of Id. Counsel. The
 impugned addition cannot be made in the hands of the
 assessee unless proper opportunity to defend himself against
 the allegation including the cross-examination of Mr. Young
 and the result ofproceedings before the E.D. authorities are to
 be considered. This ground is set side restored back to the file
 of assessing officer to decide the same afresh in accordance
 with law. " 13.1 The assessee has filed statement of peak in the Paper

Book from pages 15 to 75 of the Paper Book. The peak as on

10.04.2004 is calculated at Rs. 1,82,59,248/-. It is not in

dispute that working of the peak for this year is same as have

been computed by the assesse in preceding AY 2001-02 to

2004-05. 14. The Ld. CIT (DR), however, contended that in this year

the AO recomputed the peak and filed the remand report in

which it is stated that the debit entries on account of expenses 22 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

may be excluded. However, there is nothing in the order of the

Tribunal for earlier years to exclude the debits of the peak. It

is not in dispute that peak is worked out in all preceding

assessment years and in assessment year under appeal on the

basis of entries found in the pen drive recovered from the

possession of the assessee. The print out from the pen drive

have been brought on record, therefore, all the entries

contained in the seized pen drive shall have to be taken into

consideration for working out the peak. The process and

methodology adopted by the assessee in earlier years have

been accepted by the ITAT in two orders for assessment years

2001-02 to 2004-05. Therefore, the authorities below are

bound to follow the orders of the Tribunal and should not have

reworked out the peak in their own way. Since the peak credit

statement is prepared by the assessee on the basis of the

entries found in the pen drive and accepted by the Tribunal in

earlier years, therefore, same method shall have to be followed

in assessment year under appeal. Therefore, there was no

justification for the AO to substitute the peak for assessment

year under appeal from Rs. 1,82,59,248/- to Rs. ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

5,10,51,972/-. The assesse's counsel has also rightly

contended that the Tribunal has given benefit of opening

balance of the earlier years and that assessee had paid tax on

the peak credit for AY 2003-04 of Rs. 46,16,387/-. Therefore,

such amount shall have to be reduced from the peak

calculated by the assessee and benefit of the same shall have

to be granted to the assessee. Therefore, as per the decisions

of the Tribunal in the case of the assessee reproduced above,

the net addition shall have to be made against the assessee in

a sum of Rs. 1,36,42,861. The issue of the peak is, therefore,

fully covered by the earlier years orders of the Tribunal. In

those orders also the Tribunal has dismissed the ground of

appeal of the assessee as regards reopening of the assessment

u/s 148 of the Act. Therefore, these grounds of appeal of the

assessee are dismissed. 15. Considering the above discussion and following the

reasons for decisions of ITAT in the case of the same assessee

for assessment years 2001-02 to 2004-05, we set aside the 24 ITA Nos. 1788 & 2389/Del/2016

orders of the authorities below and direct the AO to make an

addition of Rs. 1,36,42,861/- on account of peak credit. 16. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is partly allowed

and Departmental appeal is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 07.06.2018

 Sd/- Sd/-