आयकर अपील
य अ धकरण, मुंबई यायपीठ, सी, मुंबई । IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 MUMBAI BENCHES "C", MUMBAI

 ी जो ग	दर संह, 	या यक सद य एवं
 ी एन. के. धान, लेखा सद य, के सम 
 Before Shri Joginder Singh, Judicial Member, and
 Shri N.K. Pradhan, Accountant Member

 ITA NO.121/Mum/2015
 Assessment Year: 2005-06

Shri Ajay J. Doshi-HUF, Income Tax Officer-12(2)(4),
21, Marker Tower 'L' बनाम/ Aayakar Bhavan,
G.D. Somani Marg, M.K. Road,
Cuff Parade, Vs. Mumbai
Mumbai-400005
 ( नधा!"रती /Assessee) (राज व /Revenue)
P.A. No.AACHA8912M

 नधा!"रती क ओर से / Assessee by Shri Sashi Tulsiyan
 राज व क ओर से / Revenue by Shri Rajat Mittal -DR

 ु वाई क' तार(ख / Date of Hearing : The assessee is aggrieved by the impugned order dated
09/10/2014 of the First Appellate Authority, Mumbai. The
assessee, through ground no.1, has challenged reopening of
assessment u/s 148 upholding the issuance of notice u/s
148 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter the Act) and
thus passing the reassessment order and as well as on merit. 2. So far as, legality of reopening u/s 148 of the Act
is concerned, during hearing, Shri Shashi Tulsyan, Ld.
Counsel for the assessee, invited our attention to the letter
dated 18/01/2007, which was claimed to be mere an
intimation by placing reliance upon the decision of the
Tribunal in the case of Income Tax Officer vs M/s Desire
Jewells Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.136/Mum/2015), wherein, the facts
were claimed to be identical. It was contended that not a
single material was referred by the Assessing Officer in the
case of the present assessee. Reliance was placed upon the
decision from Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Pr. CIT
vs G and G Pharma India Ltd. (2016) 384 ITR 147 (Del. ),
Khubchandani Healthparks Pvt. Ltd. vs Income Tax Officer
(2016) 384 ITR 322 (Bom.) and Banke Bihari Properties Pvt.
Ltd. vs Income Tax Officer (ITA No.5128/Del./2015 ; (2016)
46 CCH 546 (Del. Trib.) order dated 22/04/2016. 2.1. On the other hand, the Ld. DR, Shri Rajat Mittal,
contended that statement of broker was recorded and relied 3 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

upon the finding of the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeal). 2.2. We have considered the rival submissions and
perused the material available on record. The facts, in brief,
are that the assessee HUF earned short term capital gain,
long term capital and also income from other sources, filed
its return on 12/08/2005, declaring total income of
Rs.2,05,598/-, which was processed on 31/03/2007, u/s
143(1) of the Act. The Ld. Assessing Officer issued notice u/s
148 of the Act on 29/02/2012 (page-1 of the paper book) and
the assessment was reopened after lapse of more than four
years from the end of the relevant Assessment Year. The
assessee sought the reasons for reopening, which were
provided by the Assessing Officer (page-3 of the paper book).
In response to notice u/s 148 of the Act, the assessee
through its communication claimed that the return filed on
12/08/2005 may be treated as return filed against the said
notice. The reasons provided to the assessee are reproduced
hereunder:- If the aforesaid reasons of reopening are analyzed, we
find that the Ld. Assessing Officer has relied upon a letter
received from another Assessing Officer i.e. ACIT, which
speaks about search carried out in the case of group concern,
which was alleged to be involved in artificial capital gains.
Further it was also claimed that the assessee has also
claimed artificial long term capital gain amounting to
Rs.41,80,055/-. However, as claimed by the assessee, during
assessment proceedings, the assessee furnished various
evidences in support of the claim of the long term capital
gain, which was disregarded by the Assessing Officer by
holding that the same claim is artificial long term capital gain
on sale of shares. The assessee has challenged both legality
of reopening of assessment and as well as the addition on
merit. The Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeal)
confirmed both on merit as well as the legality of assessment
framed u/s 147 r.w.s 143(3) of the Act and the consequent
additions. Ajay J. Doshi

2.2. Before us, the assessee has contended that there is
no independent application of mind by the Assessing Officer
and also there is absence of tangible material, which is the
requirement for reopening the assessment. We find that the
Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Income Tax
Officer vs M/s Desire Jewells Pvt. Ltd. (supra) vide order
dated 29/02/2016 observed/held as under:- 2.3. In the aforesaid order, the jurisdictional Tribunal
has observed that for initiating reassessment proceedings u/s 147 of the Act, one of the necessary ingredients is
information of belief by the Assessing Officer that certain
income chargeable to tax had escaped assessment and
further such belief should be discernible from the material
and information on record when the Assessing Officer record
his reasons, meaning thereby, there should be live link
between the reasons and the evidence/material available with
the Assessing Officer. In the present appeal, the Ld.
Assessing Officer refers to an information received from
another Assessing Officer. The Ld. Assessing Officer merely
based upon such information proceeded to record the belief
that income chargeable to a particular extent has escaped 7 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

assessment. Identical are the facts in the case of M/s Desire
Jewells Pvt. Ltd. (supra), wherein, it was held that the
proceedings so initiated were ab-initio invalid. 2.4. Likewise, in the case of Pr. CIT vs G and G.
Pharma India Ltd. (2016) 384 ITR 147 (Del.), Hon'ble Delhi
High Court held as under:- 8. Mr. Kapil Goel, learned counsel for the Assessee, placed
reliance on other decisions of this Court including CIT v. Pradeep
Kumar Gupta (2008) 303 ITR 95; the decision dated 27th March
2015 in W.P.(C) No. 5330 of 2014 (Krown Agro Foods Pvt. Ltd. v.
ACIT); the decision dated 4th August 2015 in ITA No. 486 of
2015 ( CIT v. Shri Govind Kripa Builders P.Ltd .) and the decision 9 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

dated 24th August 2015 in ITA No. 226 of 2015 ( CIT v. Ashian
Needles Pvt. Ltd .) 9. The Court at the outset proposes to recapitulate the
jurisdictional requirement for reopening of the assessment
under Section 147 / 148 of the Act by referring to two decisions of
the Supreme Court. In Chhugamal Rajpal v. SP Chaliha (1971) 79
ITR 603, the Supreme Court was dealing with a case where the
AO had received certain communications from the Commissioner
of Income Tax showing that the alleged creditors of the Assessee
were "name-lenders and the transactions are bogus." The AO
came to the conclusion that there were reasons to believe that
income of the Assessee had escaped assessment. The Supreme
Court disagreed and observed that the AO "had not even come to
a prima facie conclusion that the transactions to which he
referred were not genuine transactions. He appeared to have had
only a vague felling that they may be '"bogus transactions'." It
was further explained by the Supreme Court that: The Supreme Court concluded that it was not satisfied that the
ITO had any material before him which could satisfy the
requirements under Section 147 and therefore could not have
issued notice under Section 148 . 10. In ACIT v. Dhariya Construction Co. (2010)328 ITR 515 the
Supreme Court in a short order held as under: 11. The above basic requirement of Sections 147 / 148 has been
reiterated in numerous decisions of the Supreme Court and this
Court. Recently, this Court rendered a decision dated 22nd
September 2015 in ITA No. 356 of 2013 ( Commissioner of
Income Tax II v. Multiplex Trading and Industrial Co. Ltd. )
where the assessment was sought to be reopened beyond the
period of four years. This Court considered the decision of the
Supreme Court in Phool Chand Bajrang Lal v. Income-tax
Officer (supra) as well as the decision of this Court in M/s Haryana Acrylic Manufacturing Co. (P) Ltd. v. CIT 308 ITR 38
(Del). The Court noted that a materialchange had been brought
about to Section 147 of the Act with effect from 1st April 1989 and
observed: 12. In the present case, after setting out four entries, stated to
have been received by the Assessee on a single date i.e. 10th
February 2003, from four entities which were termed as 11 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

accommodation entries, which information was given to him by
the Directorate of Investigation, the AO stated: "I have also
perused various materials and report from Investigation Wing
and on that basis it is evident that the assessee company has
introduced its own unaccounted money in its bank account by
way of above accommodation entries." The above conclusion is
unhelpful in understanding whether the AO applied his mind to
the materials that he talks about particularly since he did not
describe what those materials were. Once the date on which the
so called accommodation entries were provided is known, it
would not have been difficult for the AO, if he had in fact
undertaken the exercise, to make a reference to the manner in
which those very entries were provided in the accounts of the
Assessee, which must have been tendered along with the return,
which was filed on 14th November 2004 and was processed
under Section 143(3) of the Act. Without forming a prima facie
opinion, on the basis of such material, it was not possible for the
AO to have simply concluded: "it is evident that the assessee
company has introduced its own unaccounted money in its bank
by way of accommodation entries". In the considered view of the
Court, in light of the law explained with sufficient clarity by the
Supreme Court in the decisions discussed hereinbefore, the basic
requirement that the AO must apply his mind to the materials in
order to have reasons to believe that the income of the Assessee
escaped assessment is missing in the present case. 13. Mr. Sawhney took the Court through the order of the CIT(A)
to show how the CIT (A) discussed the materials produced during
the hearing of the appeal. The Court would like to observe that
this is in the nature of a post mortem exercise after the event of
reopening of the assessment has taken place. While the CIT may
have proceeded on the basis that the reopening of the assessment
was valid, this does not satisfy the requirement of law that prior
to the reopening of the assessment, the AO has to, applying his
mind to the materials, conclude that he has reason to believe that
income of the Assessee has escaped assessment. Unless that basic
jurisdictional requirement is satisfied a post mortem exercise of
analysing materials produced subsequent to the reopening will
not rescue an inherently defective reopening order from
invalidity . 14. In the circumstances, the conclusion reached by the ITAT
cannot be said to be erroneous. No substantial question of law
arises. 15. The appeal is dismissed." Ajay J. Doshi

2.5. We note that while coming to a particular
conclusion, Hon'ble High Court duly considered various
decisions including from Hon'ble Apex Court/High Court and
finally held that the basic requirement of law for reopening of
assessment is application of mind by the Assessing Officer to
the material produced prior to reopening the assessment to
conclude that he had reason to belief that income, chargeable
to tax, has escaped assessment. In the present case also, the
Ld. Assessing Officer merely reopened the assessment on the
basis of information received from another ACIT and did not
independently applied his mind, thus, the aforesaid decision
squarely applies to the present appeal also. The ratio laid
down in the case of Banke Bihari Properties Pvt. Ltd. vs
Income Tax Officer (supra) further support the case of the
assessee. In the present appeal, the ld. Assessing Officer
merely mention one letter No. ACIT/CC.12/2008-2009 dated
13/03/2009 mentioning one search action in Doshi Group of
cases was carried out on 18/01/2007. Neither any
independent enquiry was made by him nor any material was
before him evidencing/suggesting that income had really
escaped taxation in the present appeal also. The ratio laid
down in Devesh Kumar (ITA No.2068/Del./2010) (pages 93 to
106 of the paper book), DCIT vs Bhart Chandra Sheth (ITA
No.622/Mum/2014) (Page 107 to 11 of the paper book),
Pankaj Gas Cylinders vs ACIT (ITA No.5273/Del./2013) dated
03/05/2016, R.M.G. Plyvinxl (I) Ltd. (2016) 48 ITR (Trib.) 674
(Del. ), Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in Prashant Joshi vs
Income Tax Officer (324 ITR 154)(Bom. ), Godrej Industries 13 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

Ltd. vs DCIT & Ors. (2015) 377 ITR 1(Bom.) supports the
case of the assessee. In the present appeal, the assessee,
during assessment proceedings, furnished the necessary
documents, as claimed in the paper book (filed before this
Tribunal), which is summarized hereunder for ready
reference and analysis:- Balance Sheet of assessee as at 31.3.2004 and Statement
 showing investment in shares filed along with return of
 income for A.Y. 2004-05 showing purchase of 25,000 shares
 for Robinson Impex (India) Ltd. (iv) Copy of assessment order for A.Y. 2004-05 dated 13-14
 30.11.2006 in assessee's own case. A.Y. 2004-05 showing purchase of 25,000 shares of
 Robinson Impex (India) Ltd. (vii) Copy of assessment order for A. Y. 2004-05 dated 13-14
 30.11.2006 in assessee's own case. Evidence for (viii) Details of physical share certificates of 19-23
Physical Shares M/s.Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd.
received (ix) Copy of the letter dated 30.04.2003 received from 24
 Robinson Worldwide Ltd. regarding transfer of shares and
 issue of jumbo certificate. Shareholdings Pvt. Ltd. in Oriental Bank of Commerce for
 A.Y.2005-06. 43-46
 (xvii) Sample copy of BR files received by Pruthvi Brokers 14 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

 from Bombay Stock Exchange reflecting sale with trade id, trade time & client code for A. Y. 2005-06. 47 (xviii) Statement of computation of Long term capital gains
 from sale of shares of Robinson Impex (India) Ltd. 48-54
 (xix) Copy of the return of income for A.Y. 2005-06, Balance
 Sheet of assessee as at 31.3.2005 and Statement showing
 investment in shares filed along with return of income for
 A.Y. 2004-05 showing purchase of 25,000 shares of
 Robinson Impex (India) Ltd. Evidence for (xx) Copy of bank statement of HDFC Bank 55
receipt of sale
consideration for
shares

2.6. From the above, one question arises whether the
assessee fully and truly disclosed the material facts for
making the assessment. From the aforesaid summarized
chart, it is evidently clear the assessee produced the evidence
of purchase of shares of Robinson Impex (India) Ltd. for
purchase of 25,000 shares, from DPS shares and securities
Pvt. Ltd., (page-4 of the paper book), copy of ledger account of
DPS shares and securities pvt. Ltd. evidencing purchase of
25,000 shares to the assessee (page-5 of the paper book),
copy of return of income for Assessment Year 2004-05, copy
of balance sheet of the assessee as on 31/03/2004 and the
statement showing investment in shares along with return of
income for Assessment Year 2004-05 showing purchase of
aforementioned shares (page-6 to 12 of the paper book) and
the copy of assessment order for Assessment Year 2004-05
dated 30/11/2006 in the case of the assessee (paperbook
page 13 to 14). So far as, evidence of source of
purchase/mode of payment is concerned, the assessee filed
copy of sale bill, showing sale of shares of Mastek Ltd. and
RIL India (page 28 of the paper book), the balance sheet and 15 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

statement showing investment in shares, copy of assessment
order for Assessment Year 2004-05 were duly furnished. The
evidence for physical shares, received by the assessee such
certificate is available at page 19 to 23 and 24 of the paper
book. The copy of the certificate of Robinson Impex (India)
Ltd., issued on 30/04/2003 (page 25 of the paper book) was
made available before the Assessing Officer. The evidence of
dematerialization of shares, acknowledged copy of request,
issued by HDFC bank, accepting the assessee's shares in
physical form for dematerialization (page 26 of the paper
book) and copy of transaction cum holding statement,
reflecting confirmation of said D-mat is available at page 26
of the paper book. So far as, evidence of sale of shares is
concerned, the assessee produced the necessary documents
which are available to page 15 to 54 of the paper book. So far
as, evidence of receipt of sale consideration for shares is
concerned, the copy of bank statement of HDFC bank is
available on page 55 of the paper book. Considering the
totality of facts and the judicial pronouncements, discussed
hereinabove, it can be said that reopening of assessment was
not justified as the material facts for making the assessment
were duly disclosed/furnished by the assessee. In such a
situation, the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in the case of
Khubchandani Healthparks P. Ltd. vs Income Tax Officer
(2016) 384 ITR 322 (Bom.) after following the decision in
ACIT vs Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Broker Pvt. Ltd. (2007) 291 ITR
500 (SC) and on explaining and distinguishing DCIT vs Zuari 16 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

Estate Development & Investment Co. Ltd. (2015) 373 ITR
661 (SC) held as under:- 2.7. Thus, considering the totality of facts and the
judicial pronouncements discussed hereinabove, we find that
one of the necessary ingredients required to initiate
reassessment proceedings u/s 147 of the Act is formation of
belief by Assessing Officer that certain income chargeable to
tax had escaped assessment. Such belief should be
discernable from the material and information on record. In
other words, it is an accepted position of law that there
should be live link between the reason and the material 18 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

evidence available with the Assessing Officer. The Ld.
Assessing Officer was merely having information received
from the Investigation wing and merely noticing such
information, without verifying the same, proceeded to record
the belief that income chargeable to tax had escaped
assessment. No independent application of mind has been
done by the Assessing Officer suggesting escapement of
income. Therefore, having regard to the factual matrix and
the judicial decisions like Pr. CIT vs G and G Pharma India
Ltd. (2016) 384 ITR 147 (Del.) and Hon'ble jurisdictional High
Court in Khoobchandani Healthpack Pvt. Ltd. (2016) 384 ITR
322 (Bom.), we are of the view that the initiation of
proceedings u/s 147 of the Act by the Ld. Assessing Officer
are held to be ab-initio invalid. 3. So far as, merits of the case is concerned, we find
that the assessee originally filed the return on 12/08/2005
declaring total income at Rs.2,05,598/-. Assessment u/s
147 r.w.s 143(3) of the Act was completed on 28/03/2013,
making addition of Rs.41,79,305/- on the alleged bogus long
term capital gain on the same of shares of Robinson Impex (I)
Ltd. treating the same as 'income from other sources'. The
assessee challenged the addition before the First Appellate
Authority, wherein, it was affirmed. The assessee is in appeal
before this Tribunal. The whole issue boils down whether the
amount of sale proceed of shares of Robinson Impex (I) Ltd.
can be treated as 'income from other sources'. The assessee
before us, has also filed written submissions, wherein, it was 19 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

claimed that during Financial Year 2003-04 (Assessment
Year 2004-05), the assessee purchased the following shares. 3.1. We have perused the assessment order and found
that broadly, even after submission of aforesaid documents,
the Ld. Assessing Officer made addition by making following
broad objections:- ii. The assessee's in the group have backdated the
 purchase of shares as the same have been paid
 either through cash or through speculative capital gains and
 no actual purchase of the said shares was ever made. iii. It is seen that on the date of purchase of these shares, the
 market price of the said shares is very nominal. iv. On the date of purchase of the said shares, no transaction
 for these shares was conducted on the Bombay Stock
 Exchange (BSE). v. Similarly, the speculation profits never actually arose out
 of transactions on BSE. vi. The assessee on the date on which it had supposedly
 earned long term capital gains was in possession of
 unexplained money to the extent of Rs. 41,79,305/-. vii. Additions with regards to the sale of scrip of M/s. Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. was made in all the
 Doshi group cases by ACIT Central Circle - 12 and as the 20 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

 assessee's case was left out of centralization, information
 was sent to this office for making the additions on account
 of bogus/artificial capital gains. 3.2. In the backdrop of the above observations, we have
also analyzed the impugned order, wherein, the First
Appellate Authority, confirmed the addition by observing as
under
 i. The share broker through whom the shares in question
 have been claimed to have been Purchased has
 categorically stated that the purchases in question are
 bogus and in the nature of accommodation entries. ii. It appears that there are hundreds of persons unrelated
 to each other who have adopted the same modus operandi
 in respect of transactions in the shares of M/s. Robinson
 Impex and the involvement of same share broker i.e. M/s.
 DPS Share Brokers. This cannot he a mere coincidence. iii. The fact as mentioned in sub-para 'b' above cannot be
 ignored merely because the assessee has some
 documents in its possession. iv. The speculative transactions, especially of blue chip
 companies like RIL, in question were not effected on the
 stock exchange platform. v. The alleged broker had not informed the speculative
 transactions to the stock exchange in all cases. vi. It is not understandable as to why the assessee would
 invest in penny stock with no track record. vii. The shares were sent for de-materialisation long after
 purchasing the same. viii. The assessee has filed the Demat Request Form submitted
 to Oriental Bank of Commerce for dematerialization of
 shares, which is incomplete and not signed/stamped
 by the authorized participant. ix. Therefore, from the facts on record it emerges that
 even though the shares were dematerialized, it was part
 of the arrangement between the assessee and the 21 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

 company. x. Even if it is accepted that the said shares were in fact
 purchased by the assessee, the same is to he held to have
 been purchased for profit motive as trading asset and not
 as a capital asset or investment. xi. Further, no deduction of purchase cost can he allowed to
 the assessee since it has been held that the said purchase
 has not been substantiated by it. xii. No reliance can be placed on the assessment order for A. Y.
 2004-05 for genuineness of purchases since the said issue
 was not examined by the Assessing Officer. 3.3. Now, we shall analyze, the search proceedings, as
 observed in the assessment order as well as in the impugned
 order. The submissions on behalf of the assessee, before us,
 are summarized as under:- The following assessee's of Doshi Group were before
 the Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai
 Bench:- Ajay J. Doshi

 In the case of said assessees, the Assessing Officer had
 issued notices u/s. 153A of the Act and passed
 assessment orders u/s. 153A r.w.s. 143(3) of the Act. The
 said assessee's had challenged the said order on both
 the issues of legality of the assessment and merits of
 the addition made by the Assessing Officer. The Hon'ble
 Tribunal in the case of the above-referred assessees
 granted relief on the issue of legality of assessment
 framed u/s. 153A r.w.s. 143(3) of the Act itself'. The
 said relief was granted looking into the fact that there
 was no incriminating material which was either found
 or seized during the course of search to justify addition
 u/s 153A r.w.s. 143(3) of the Act. Reliance for this
 contention is placed on the order of Hon'ble Mumbai
 Tribunal in the case of Skil Brijesh D. Shah vs. ACIT
 Central Circle 11, Mumbai in the ITA No. 1417 to
 1420/M/2010 dated 03.02.2016 (Page No 125-133 of
 the Paperbook). The relevant portion of the said order is
 reproduced hereunder: Similar order was passed by Hon'ble Mumbai Tribunal in the
case of Smt. Neeta Doshi & Snit Manisha Doshi, in the ITA No.
439/Mum/2010 and 441/Mum/2010 dated 30.11.2015 (Page
No 134-150 of the Paperbook). From, a perusal of the above order it gets amply clear that
 the search and seizure operation on the Doshi Group had 23 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

 not yielded with any Findings with regards to the
 genuineness of claim of Long Term Capital Gains in either
 the case of the said assessee's or in the case of the appellant. No confrontation of the purchase broker/ No opportunity to
 cross-examine: The judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Andaman
Timber Industries vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, Kolkata-II,
Civil Appeal No. 4228 of 2006 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme
Court (Page No 164-170 of the Paper book) has held as under: - Statement of computation of Long term capital gains from
sale of shares of Robinson Impex (India) Ltd. (Pages 47 of the
paper book), Copy of the return of income for A.Y. 2005-06,
Balance Sheet of assessee as at 31.3.2005 and Statement
showing investment in shares filed along with return of
income for A.Y. 2004-05 showing purchase of 25,000 shares
of Robinson Impex (India) Ltd. (Pages 48 to 54 of the paper
book), was made available by the assessee. So far as,
evidence for receipt of sale consideration of shares concern,
the assessee filed copy of bank statement of HDFC Bank 28 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

(Page 55 of the paper book), therefore, it is observed that
necessary evidence was furnished by the assessee. Thus,
even on merit, the assessee has duly substantiated his claim.
The Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal vide order dated
30/12/2011 (ITA No.787 to 791/Mum/2010) for Assessment
Year 2005-06 in the case of Shri Arvind M. Kariya and Ors.
vs ACIT on the issue of Long Term Capital Gains and
consequent addition u/s 68 of the Act, wherein, the shares
were purchased from M/s DPS Shares and Securities Pvt.
Ltd. and M/s Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd., the factual
matrix was considered and finally the sale and purchase of
shares were held to be proved and thus order to be assessed
under the head 'Capital Gains', fortifies the case of the
assessee. The relevant portion of the order is reproduced
hereunder:- 2. After hearing both the parties, we find that a search was conducted in
 this group wherein some cash and jewellery was found. The search was 29 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

conducted on the specific information that the assessee in this group had
obtained artificial capital gains by manipulating share transactions. It was
alleged that assessee had obtained bogus back dated purchase bills and
shares and received the delivery in physical format and later on these
shares were sold at the stock exchange through engineered transactions
availing bogus capital gains. In this case the bogus capital gains were said
to be generated on the purchase and sale of 15,500 shares of M/s Robinson
Worldwide Trade Ltd. (also known by the name M/s. Robinson Impex India
Ltd.). It was noted that the shares were said to have been purchased from
M/s. DPS Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd. A statement u/s.131 of Shri Sujal C.
Shah director of M/s. DPS Shares & Securities (P) Ltd. was recorded during
the survey conducted u/s.133A on 18-1-2007. In this statement he has
specifically stated that actually no purchase transaction in the scrip of M/s
Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. were carried out, but only accommodation
bills were issued. During the course of assessment proceedings another
director Shri Pratik C. Shah of M/s. DPS Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd. was
called to the office and he again admitted that these transactions were only
accommodation transactions during the cross examination. It was also
stated by him that for purchase of these shares made by M/s. DPS Shares &
Securities Pvt. Ltd. from a third party speculation bills were issued where
profits were shown in speculation but actually there was no such
transactions where speculation profit was generated. It was further
admitted that speculation transactions were not shown in their books of
account. Thereafter, assessee was given specific opportunity for cross
examination of Shri Pratik C. Shah. The assessee availed this opportunity
and his representative Shri Ketan Mehta examined Shri Pratik C. Shah. Even
during the course of cross examination Shri Pratik C. Shah stated that
purchase transactions of M/s Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. were bogus.
It was stated that though physical delivery was given but such physical
shares were given by Shri Naresh Sahu and Shri Shirish C. Shah. It was
ultimately submitted before the AO that shares were actually purchased for
which bills were there and the source of the purchase was the speculation
profit earned by the assessee. If the broker has not shown those
transactions in his books, then it was not assessee's fault. The AO after
examining the submissions observed that purchase of shares of M/s
Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. were either sourced by supposed
speculative gains or by paying cash, which means the assessee in this group
bas back dated this supposed purchases and such speculative transactions
were also proved to be bogus. On the basis of these observations and the
statement of Shri Sujal C. Shah and Shri Pratik C. Shah regarding bogus
transactions, it was concluded by the AO that capital gains generated was
bogus. 3. Before the CIT(A) it was mainly submitted that shares of M/s Robinson
Worldwide Trade Ltd. were purchased on 23-4-2003 @ Rs.1.47 per share
and the same were shown in the balance-sheet for the year 2004-05. The 30 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

source of purchase of the shares was speculation profit. The shares were
sold through Anugrah Stock and Broking Pvt. Ltd. in A.Y 2005-06 and
copies of the sales bills were furnished before the AO. The consideration
was received by account payee cheques. It was also pointed out that
originally the shares were issued in physical format which were
dematerialised on 30-11-2004. Thus, it is clear that all evidence for
purchase and sale of shares was there which has been ignored by the AO
and the transactions were held to be bogus only on the basis of the
statements of the two directors, namely, Shri Sujal C. Shah and Shri Pratik
C. Shah of M/s. DPS Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd. It was also submitted that
once transactions of purchase and sales were entered into by the assessee
there was no need to verify the transactions by him as to whether same
were through stock exchange or recorded in the books of the broker. It
seems during the search assessee has accepted in the statement u/s.132(4) that this transaction was bogus. During the appellate proceedings it was
submitted that assessee had made the surrender u/s.132 [4] to buy peace of
mind and to avoid litigation. Since department had gone ahead with the
litigation, therefore, this declaration was withdrawn. Reliance on some case
law was also placed. The ld. CIT(A) after considering the submissions
observed that there was a racket going on in the market in Penny Stock
which was used for booking capital gains. In this racket stock involved
were that of M/s Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd, Data Base Finance Ltd.,
Baffin Engg. Project Ltd. and Hindustan Stockland Ltd. These rackets were
busted by the Investigation Wing and searches were conducted at various
places in the country. The modus operandi for adopting engineered bogus
capital gains using such Penny Stock was that some key players were
involved which can be called operator and beneficiaries. The operator is a
person who manipulates all the transactions necessary to fabricate the
capital gains on account of shares including the arrangement of bills for
such transactions. The beneficiary is a person who purchases
artificial/bogus capital gains from the operator by paying the gross amount
of sale price of such shares in cash. The Operator gives physical shares to
the beneficiary, whose market value is roughly equivalent to the money,
the beneficiary intends to launder. Such shares would be accompanied by a
backdated contract note showing the sale of shares to the beneficiary at
less than a rupee or just a few rupees per share, as they were quoted earlier
(about an year. or so). The consideration from beneficiary is mostly shown
in cash so that the backdating of the bogus purchase transaction is
camouflaged. Sometimes, bogus speculation profit generated by hawala
bills is also used for this purpose. In some rare cases, cheque payments are
shown wherein the payments are seen to e at a later date for obvious
reasons. Since the shares cannot be sold in physical Format, the beneficiary
sends the shares to depositary to be dematerialized and converted into
electronic form. The beneficiary sells such dematerialized shares on
secondary market at the prevalent price and receives cheque payment
thereby converting black money into white. depending upon how far the 31 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

contract note for purchase of such shares was backdated, the beneficiary
launders the money by either paying zero or 10% capita gain tax
(depending on the rates of taxation of capital gains for the relevant A.Y.) In
some cses it is gathered through market intelligence that the operators by
using benami entities/name lenders recycle the same set of shares several
times over by re-materialization. i.e., conversion of shares from electronic
form to physical, form and thereby extending the facility of laundering
black money to another beneficiary. It has been found during the course of
investigation that this cycle of rematerialization/dematerilzation has, been
used several times over in the case of such Penny stocks. During such
process, huge amount of black money were converted by fabricating
artificial capital gains. 4. He further observed that assessee is also one of the beneficiaries of this
Penny Stock scam which was proved during the assessment proceedings
through the statement of directors of M/s. DPS Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd.
Even during the cross examination, directors of M/s. DPS Shares &
Securities Pvt. Ltd admitted that these transactions were only
accommodation transactions. He further observed that assessee has not
been able to prove the purchases transactions and no source for the same
has been shown. The transaction of purchase of so called transaction of
speculation profit was not routed through BSE & NSE. The ld. CIT(A)
thereafter discussed the statements of directors of M/s. DPS Shares &
Securities Pvt. Ltd and also referred to case laws and ultimately held that
the transactions were bogus. 5. Before us, Ld. Counsel of the assessee submitted that CIT(A) has decided
the issue against the assessee on the basis of the general observation
regarding Penny Stock scam and has not examined the issue properly. He
argued that assessee has purchases the shares of M/s Robinson Worldwide
Trade Ltd on 17-4-2003 for which contract note was available. He referred
to various documents in the paper book and pointed out that assessee had
earned some speculation profit in A.Y 2004-05 which was used for the
purpose of purchase of shares of M/s Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. Such
profits were duly returned in the return of income filed for A.Y 2004-05
which has been accepted and even purchases were reflected in the balance
sheet which have been accepted by the department. Originally the shares
were issued in physical format which got transferred in assessee's name
and only one share certificate was issued by that company which was later
on split into 150 share certificates and thereafter same were
dematerialised to de-mat account with the depository known as Action
Financial Services Ltd. Such de-MAT shares were sold through Anugrah
Stock Broking Ltd. on 9-12-04 to 6-1-05 and the payments have been
received through cheques. He argued that once a client goes to the brokers
office he cannot go behind the scene to find out whether the transaction 32 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

has been carried out through the stock exchange or it is a off market
transaction. In any case, even under the regulation 'off market' transactions
are permitted by the brokers. He then referred to the cross examination of
Shri Pratik C. Shah in which in reply to question no.22 it was agreed by him
that such bogus bills were issued at the instance of Shri Naresh Sahu and
physically shares were given to Ms. Jigna A. Kariya [i.e. one of the assessee
before us]. However, the revenue has not brought any evidence on record
to show that Shri Naresh Sahu was acting on behalf of the assessee and this
person was not known to the assessee at all and there is no evidence to
prove that this person was known to the assessee. In any case, in the same
reply it has been clearly admitted by Shri Partik Shah that physically shares
were given to the assessee. Similarly, in reply to question no.34 it has been
again reiterated that delivery of physical shares was given to the assessee.
The assessee was not required to find out anything more than this because
against the payment in terms of speculation profit assessee was given
physical delivery of the shares, therefore, this statement cannot be relied
upon at all. He contended that assessee has proved the purchase in the
earlier years which has been accepted by the department and nothing more
was required to be proved. The income generated from such sales was
offered under the head 'long term capital gain' which proved that assessee
had generated genuine capital gain. He also relied on the following
decisions: 6. On the other hand, Ld. DR strongly supported the order of the AO and the
CIT(A). He also filed a letter dated 14-11-11 and pointed out that when the
issue regarding the paper book was taken up with the AO the then DCIT-12,
has reported that pages 42 to 45 were not traceable in the records of the
office. A copy of the letter of DCIT has been enclosed with this letter. He
also strongly relied on the decision of the Hon'ble sc in the case of Sumati
Dayal vs. CIT [214 ITR 801]. 7. In the rejoinder, Ld. Counsel of the assessee submitted that the reply of
the AO to the CIT DR shows that pages 42 to 45 are not traceable, but these
papers were filed along with annexure K in letter dated 5-11-08, copy of
which has been furnished before us. He pointed out that page 42 is a copy
of the share transfer form duly executed by the transferor and transferee
and page 45 is a copy of the share certificate showing 15500 shares having
distinctive Nos.3948701 to 3964200. He also produced copies of 155 share 33 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

certificates which were later on issued by M/s Robinson Worldwide Trade
Ltd by splitting one certificate in to 155 certificates which proves
ownership of the shares. He also pointed out that it is not correct statement
by the DCIT that M/s Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd is not in existence
and in this regard he filed copies of list containing the names of the
companies by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, which clearly shows that
M/s Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd is existing at Sr.No.2 and the name of
the company has been changed to Sun & Sine Worldwide Ltd. and under
column GLM it is shown to be the active company. He also filed a copy
taken from BSE India site which shows that the name of the company was
changed by extra ordinary general meeting from M/s Robinson Worldwide
Trade Ltd to Sun & Sine Worldwide Ltd. He also filed another copy from
BSE which shows that shares were quoted on 6 th September, 2011 and
price at that moment was Rs.36.75 per share. All these documents clearly
show that the company is very much in existence under the new name Sun
& Sine Worldwide Ltd. 8. We have considered the rival submissions carefully and find force in the
submissions of the Ld. Counsel of the assessee. The ld. CIT(A) has dismissed
the appeal of the assessee mainly on generalization that there was a Penny
Stock scam which was unearthed by the Department and also that assessee
has not been able to prove the purchase of shares and it was an
accommodation transaction as stated by the directors of M/s. DPS Shares &
Securities Pvt. Ltd. The ld. CIT(A) as well as the Ld. DR has mainly relied on
the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sumati Dayal vs.
CIT [supra]. In that case the facts were as under: 2,000 and Rs. 3,000. The drawings recorded in the books cannot be co-
related to the various racing events at which the appellant made the
alleged winnings. (iv) While the appellant's capital account was credited
with the gross amounts of race winnings, there were no debits either for
expenses and purchase of tickets or for losses. (v) In view of the
exceptional luck claimed to have been enjoyed by the appellant, her loss of
interest in races from 1972 assumes significance. Winnings in racing
became liable to income-tax from April 1, 1972, but one would not give up
an activity yielding or likely to yield a large income merely because the
income would suffer tax. The position would be different, however, if the
claim of winnings in races was false and what were passed off as such
winnings really represented the appellant's taxable income from some
undisclosed sources. On the above facts it was held as under: From the above decision it is clear that human probabilities or
circumstantial evidences can be taken into account for deciding an issue.
However , in that case the circumstances were so strong against that the
documentary evidence was ignored by the Hon'ble apex court. But in the
case of the assessee before us it shows that circumstantial evidence is not
so over whelming and rather the documentary evidence clearly proves the
transactions. 9. First let us deal with the contentions of the Ld. DR that some papers in
the paper book at page nos.42 to 45 were not traceable in the file of the AO.
The second allegation vide letter dated 11-11-11 is that the company M/s
Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd is not in existence. Pages 42 and 43 of the
paper book, which is a copy of the transfer form signed by the transferor
and the transferee. Page 4 is a copy of the covering letter by the company to
the assessee transferring the shares by way of a jumbo certificate i.e. one
consolidated certificate in the name of the assessee and page-45 is a copy of
the share certificate. It has been pointed out that such papers were filed
with the AO with the letter dated 5-11-08 along with annexure K and copy
of this letter has been furnished before us which is placed on records. In the
column dealing with annexure K it is stated that various documents are
being furnished to prove the genuineness of purchases which includes the
transfer form placed at pages 42 and 43 and copy of the share certificate at
page 45. This makes it clear that documents were filed before the AO
because it has not been denied that letter dated 5-11-08 was filed before
the AO. In any case, during the hearing photo copies of 150 certificates 35 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

issued in the name of the assessee by splitting the jumbo certificate, have
been filed, which show that shares were in the name of the assessee. A
document from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India from
the cite http://www,.mca,gov.in serial Nos.1 & 2 of the same read as under: This clearly shows that Robinson Impex (India) Ltd. as well as M/s Robinson
Worldwide Trade Ltd were merged and the new name of the company is Sun
And Shine Worldwide Ltd. The above extract has been taken on 12-12-2011
which shows that the company is very much in existence even as on today.
This is further supported by another extract from M/s. DPS Shares &
Securities Pvt. Ltd taken from www.bseindia.com. This extract shows the
following information: 10. The second important issue on the basis of which the claim of the
assessee for capital gain was held to be bogus was the statement of director
of M/s. DPS Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd. The AO has fairly given cross
examination to the assessee of the director of M/s. DPS

Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd. Shri Pratik Shah director of M/s. DPS Shares &
Securities Pvt. Ltd was cross examined by the representative of the assessee
Shri Ketan Mehta on 20-11-2008 and AO has reproduced the whole cross
examination. The question and answer to Qs. Nos.22 & 34 read as under: This cannot be called bogus unless the connivance of M/s Robinson
Worldwide Trade Ltd and Action Financial Services (India) Ltd. is also alleged
and proved. But no enquiry seems to have been conducted with these
entities. Ultimately, the shares have been sold through Anugrah Stock and
Broking Pvt. Ltd. on various dates as under: All these facts clearly prove that the transactions are genuine and the same
cannot be doubted unless and untill the other participants like depository
known as Action Financial Services (India) Ltd. is also proved to be bogus or
in connivance with the Penny Stock scam and even the sale conducted
through Anugrah Stock and Broking Pvt. Ltd. is proved to be bogus. In our
opinion, when overwhelming documentary evidence is available to prove the
purchase and sale transactions part of which has already been accepted by
the revenue in A.Y 2004-05, then a mere statement by the broker who has
sold the shares to the assessee that this was an accommodation entry cannot
lead to a conclusion that the whole transaction was bogus. In these
circumstances, we are of the view that the sale and purchase of the shares
stand proved and should be assessed under the head capital gains." Ajay J. Doshi

3.8. Identically, in the case of Late Smt. Kanchanben
J. Shah vs Income Tax Officer (ITA No.6544/Mum/2011)
order dated 18/02/2016, the sale consideration on sale of
shares of M/s Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. as income
from other sources instead of income from long term capital
gains by holding the purchase transaction of said shares as
not genuine was considered by the Tribunal and finally the
appeal of the assessee was allowed directing the Assessing
Officer to accept the long term capital gain as returned by the
assessee. The relevant portion of the aforesaid order dated
18/02/2016 is reproduced hereunder for ready reference and
analysis:- Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. as not genuine without appreciating that A.O
 was unable to afford cross examination of Mr. Rajkumar Masalia to assessee, Mr
 Rajkumar Masalia had retracted his statement and assessee had produced
 affidavit of Mr Pratik C Shah Director of Broking Company who had executed
 purchase transaction for assessee. 3) The Appellant craves leave to add, amend, alter or delete any or all the above
 grounds of appeal". 2. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee is an individual and derives
 income from salary, business, capital gains and income from other sources. The
 learned assessing officer (hereinafter called "the AO") enquired the details of 39 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

profit earned on sale of shares. The assessee furnished the details of such profit
and filed copies of purchase and sale bills, brokers' notes and source of funds
from which it purchased the shares on which capital gains were earned. From
the details , it was seen by the AO that the assessee has earned long term capital
gain on sale of 10,000 shares of Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. [formerly
known as Robinson Impex. As per the submissions made, the assessee had
purchased these shares @ Rs. 1.30 per share for the total consideration of Rs.
13,210.43 including brokerage and taxes, which was purchased against the
profit on the intra-day sale / purchase transaction in 950 shares of Mastek on
which the assessee has shown to have made profit of Rs. 13,168.67. The
transactions were claimed to have been made through a broker, namely, M/s.
DPS Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd.. In order to ascertain genuineness of the
transaction, the AO sent the letter to Bombay Stock Exchange on 13/08/2007 to
confirm the following transactions:- The Surveillance and Supervisory Department of Bombay Stock Exchange vide
letter dated 20/08/2007, inter alia, stated as under:- The Bombay Stock Exchange enclosed the copies of the trades carried out by the
DPS Shares & Securities Ltd as under, whereby there was discrepancies in the
transactions of shares of Mastek Ltd. as per the brokers notes and the trade log
of the broker as per Bombay Stock Exchange of 04/04/2003 as detailed below:- Sub:- Confirmation of 1000 shares of Robinson Impex Ltd. Sold to Mr. Jagdish H.
Shah (F.Y.- 2003-04)_
I undersigned, have to state that Mr. Jagdish H. Shah was a family friend of our
director who in trading in shares earned a speculation profit of Rs. 15156.56
during the F.Y.- 2003
As we were in relation we had recommend him to purchase 1000 shares of
Robinson Impex Ltd. at the price around Rs.1.50 per shares, since the shares
were not traded in the stock exchange and were sold in physical mode by us
OFF MARKET and bills were issues. We further confirm that 10000 shares of Robinson Impex Ltd. were handed
over in the physical mode against our OFF MARKET transactions only which
was not reported to BSE. We further state that any statement/letter made earlier to the contrary to this is
by mistake and not relevant to all. Thanking you,
Yours faithfully
For DPS Shares And Securities Pvt. Ltd. Sd/- Director" 3. Aggrieved by the assessment order dated 28/12/2007 passed u/s 143(3) of
the Act by the AO, the assessee filed first appeal with the CIT(A). The assessee
reiterated its submissions as made before the AO which are not repeated for
sake of brevity. The CIT(A) called for remand report from AO which was
submitted by AO. The CIT(A) after considering assessment order, remand
report, submission of the assessee and discussions with the assessee held that
there are many discrepancies in the records with respect to client code and
quantity of shares traded with the records of BSE. The assessee even during
appellant proceedings have submitted that the same is due to mistake of the
broker.The CIT(A) observed that there is no PAN in contract notes nor in bills
issued by brokers which is mandatory. The statement of Mr Rajkumar Masalia,
the authorized officer of DPS Shares and Securities Private Limited has been
recorded who accepted that bills/contract notes were issued as accommodation
entries and no transactions have taken place. The CIT(A) noted that the
assessee has submitted before him that the statement of Mr Rajkumar Masalia
stood retracted and same could not be taken as correct as he failed to appear
before the AO during remand proceedings for cross examination on three
different dates. The CIT(A) held that the person duly authorized has given the
statement on oath that the transactions were bogus and any subsequent
statement appear to be an after-thought and statement of Mr. Raj Kumar
Masalia recorded u/s 131 of the Act has evidentiary value. The CIT(A) also held
that even there is no compliance of BSE/SEBI reporting mechanism with
respect to off market purchase of 10000 shares of Robinson Impex Limited and
the assessee has merely termed it as mistake of broker which is an after-
thought. Thus, the CIT(A) vide orders dated 16.08.2011 upheld the action of the
AO by treating the income of Rs.9,19,015/- as income from undisclosed income
and to be taxed under the head 'Income from other sources'. 4. Aggrieved by the orders dated 16.08.2011 of the CIT(A), the assessee
filed appeal with the Tribunal. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee reiterated
the submissions as made before the authorities below which are not
repeated for sake of brevity. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee stated
before us that the 10000 shares of Robinson Impex (India) Limited was
purchased on 04-04-2003 vide physical delivery from DPS Shares and 43 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

Securities Private Limited who are SEBI approved registered broker with
BSE which are duly evidenced by contract notes issued by the said broker
which is placed at page 29-30 paper book filed before the Tribunal . The
ld. Counsel stated before us said shares were transferred in favour of the
assessee on 30-04-2003 vide share certificate issued by the company
which is placed at page 30 of the paper book filed with the Tribunal. The
ld. Counsel stated before us that payment of the said 10000 shares of
Robinson Impex (India ) Limited aggregating to Rs.13210.43 was settled
through speculative profit of Rs.13168.67 earned by the assessee in the
shares of Mastek Limited on 04-04-2003 which is also supported by
contract notes issued by DPS Shares and Securities Private Limited which
are placed at paper book page 27- 28. The Ld. Counsel stated before us
that the speculative profit of Rs 13168.67 earned by the assessee was duly
declared and disclosed to the Revenue and offered for taxation by the
assessee in the return of income filed with the Revenue which is placed at
paper book page 42-46 for the assessment year 2004-05. The ld. Counsel
stated before us that purchase of 10000 shares of Robinson Impex (India)
Limited were duly declared and disclosed to the Revenue in the return of
income filed with the Revenue for financial year 2003-04(assessment year
2004-05) which is placed at page 42-46 of paper book. The said 10000
shares of Robinson Impex (India) Limited were dematted in the month of
June 2004 in favour of the assessee which is placed at page 32 of paper
book. The ld. Counsel stated that the transactions of sale and purchase of
shares are genuine although there are discrepancies in trade log with BSE
at the time of purchase as detailed by AO in the assessment order which is
a mistake of broker. The ld. Counsel stated that the sale of 10000
Robinson Impex India Limited was also undertaken through registered
share broker and contract notes are placed at page 21- 26 of paper book
and payments were received by cheque , the relevant bank statements are
placed at page 11 of paper book where sale proceed cheques were
credited . The ld. Counsel of the assessee drew our attention to remand
report submitted by the AO to the CIT(A) whereby Mr Rajkumar Masalia
did not appear before the AO for cross examination three times on
18.2.2009, 29.04.2009 and 09.11.2009 while the assessee representative
was duly present before the AO on those dates. The AO in remand report
has confirmed that BSE has confirmed the sale transaction of 10000
Robinson Impex (India) Limited which was sold by the assessee on 10-06-
2004. The ld. Counsel relied upon the decision of Mumbai Tribunal in the
case of Mr. Jagdish H.Shah in ITA No. 6557/Mum/2011 vide orders dated
05/09/2012 for the assessment year 2005-06, whereby on the identical
facts , income earned on sale of shares of Robinson Impex (India) Limited
has been accepted to be income assessable under the head 'long term
capital gain' . The Ld. Counsel has also filed a tabulation showing
similarity of facts between the case of the assessee and that of Jagdish H
Shah(supra). The tabulation furnished by the assessee depicts the
similarity in scrip involved, assessment year involved,the broker involved 44 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

, enquiries by the AO from BSE , etc. . Apart there-from ,it has also been
pointed out that the same AO as well as the same CIT(A) have rendered
the decisions on the same dates in the case of Jagdish H Shah(supra) as
well as the assessee. Under these circumstances, it has been pointed out
that the impugned orders of the lower authorities are unsustainable and
that income from sale of the shares of Robinson Impex (India) Limited be
accepted as long term capital gain as returned by the assessee. The
reliance is also placed on the similar case on identical facts in the case of Nikunj J Shah v. ITO in ITA no. 6545/Mum/2011 whereby Mumbai
Tribunal vide orders dated 31/07/2015 has accepted the income from
sale of shares of Robinson Impex (India) Limited as income assessable
under the head long term capital gain as returned. 5. The Ld. DR submitted that these transactions of sale and purchase of shares
in April 2003 were sham transactions . The brokers have not reported off
market transactions to BSE/SEBI as per requirements of law. There is
difference in client code in trade log of BSE which evidences that the
transactions are sham. 6. We have considered the rival contentions and perused the material on
record. it is evident that similar controversy has been considered by our Co-
ordinate Bench in the case of Jagdish H. Shah (Mumbai Tribunal ITA
nos.6557/Mum/2011 for the assessment year 2005-06 vide orders dated 05-
09-2012) and Nikunj J Shah (Mumbai Tribunal - ITA No. 6545/Mum/2011 vide
orders dated 31-07-2015).The Ld. Representative of the assessee has also
placed on record copies of the assessment order as well as the order of CIT(A)
in the case of Jagdish H.Shah (supra) which reveal that the discussion contained
therein is almost similar to the discussion in the impugned orders before us.
The enquiries made by the AO in case of Jadish H. Shah (supra) are on similar
lines to those made in the case before us. In the case of the assessee as well as in
the case of Jagdish H. Shah(supra) the shares were purchased from the same
broker namely DPS Shares and Securities It is also emerging that the AO carried
out a verification exercise which involved recording of statement of one Shri Raj
Kumar Masalia, Principal Officer of DPS Shares & Securities Ltd.; similar action
was taken in the case of Jagdish H. Shah (supra) also. Be that as it may, it is quite
clear that the stand of the Revenue as well as the assessee in the present case is
on similar footing to their respective stands in the case of Jagdish H. Shah
(supra). Having regard to the aforesaid similarities, which are not controverted
by the Revenue, we deem it fit and proper to rely upon the reasoning taken by
the Co-ordinate Bench in the case of Jagdish H. Shah(supra) and hold that the
income tax authorities have erred in treating the sale consideration on the sale
of shares of Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. as an income from undisclosed
sources. Identical decision was also rendered in the case of Mr Nikunj J.
Shah (supra) by Mumbai Tribunal in ITA No. 6545/Mum/2011 for assessment
year 2005-06 vide orders dated 31-07-2015 , relevant extracts are reproduced
below: 6.1 Following the aforesaid precedent we hereby allow the appeal of the
 assessee, and direct the AO to accept the long term capital gain as returned by
 the assessee. 7. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed." 7. Following the aforesaid precedent we hereby allow the appeal of the
 assessee, and direct the AO to accept the long term capital gain as returned by
 the assessee. 8. In the result, the assessee's appeal is allowed." If the aforesaid elaborate orders of the Tribunal in the
case of different assessee are analyzed, we find that the
Tribunal has duly discussed the sale through a broker
namely M/s DPS Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd. on sale of
shares of M/s Robinson Worldwide Trade Ltd. and finally the
finding of the lower authorities were reversed and the Ld.
Assessing Officer was directed to accept the long term capital 47 ITA No.121/Mum/2015 Ajay J. Doshi

 gains, as returned by the assessee. Our view is further
 fortified by the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Smt.
 Neeta R. Doshi and Smt. Manisha A. Doshi (ITA No.439 and
 441/Mum/2010) order dated 30/11/2015, wherein, the
 decision from Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court, reported in
 (2015) 374 ITR 645 (Bom.) was considered and thereafter the
 appeals of the assessee were allowed. No contrary facts were
 brought to our notice by either side, therefore, in the present
 case of the assessee, being on identical facts/parties involved,
 no U-turn is permissible unless and until contrary facts are
 brought to our notice, therefore, following the aforesaid
 orders of the Tribunal, Hon'ble High Courts including from
 jurisdictional High Court, we allow the appeal of the assessee
 on merit as well. Finally, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 31/05/2017

 Sd/- Sd/- आदे श क %$त'ल(प अ)े(षत/Copy of the Order forwarded to : आदे शानस
 ु ार/ BY ORDER,
 स2या6पत त //True Copy//

 उप/सहायक पंजीकार (Dy./Asstt. Registrar)
 आयकर अपील
य अ धकरण, मब
 ुं ई / ITAT, Mumbai