Case is taken up for hearing through video conferencing.

 This is a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. for issuance of

directions to respondents No. 2 to 14 to give 10 days advance notice in case

the petitioner is required in any cognizable offence. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that in the petition

filed by Vasu Pathak CWP No. 36412 of 2019, status report regarding the

investigation in the scam worth Rs. 1200 crores has been called for. He

further submits that the petitioner has been collecting the evidence in the

present case for bringing the documents on record under the Prevention of

Money Laundring Act in which the senior police officers are involved. He

further submits that the investigation regarding drug money, black money

and the money involved in the real estate business is also being looked into

by the Special Task Force, constituted by Govt. of Punjab. Learned counsel

for the petitioner also submits that the petitioner apprehends his implication

 1 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 01-10-2020 00:20:58 ::: CRM-M No. 30262 of 2020 -2- in some false case and prays that in case the petitioner is required in any

congnizable offence, 10 days' advance notice may be issued to him. Notice of motion. On the asking of the Court, Mr. Pawan Sharda, Sr. DAG,

Punjab, accepts notice on behalf of the State. I have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner as well as the

learned State counsel. The petitioner is a whistle-blower and the Special Task Force,

Punjab headed by A.D.G.P., Punjab is looking into the real estate/drug

mafia and the petitioner is in the process of appearing before the Special

Task Force and has been supplying the required documents. The petitioner

has prayed that in case he is required in any criminal case, advance notice

may be issued to him. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Sushila Aggarwal and others

versus State (NCT of Delhi) and another 2020 (1) R.C.R. (Criminal) 833

has held as under:- These are essential for the court which should consider his
 2 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 01-10-2020 00:20:58 ::: CRM-M No. 30262 of 2020 -3- application, to evaluate the threat or apprehension, its
 gravity or seriousness and the appropriateness of any
 condition that may have to be imposed. It is not essential
 that an application should be moved only after an FIR is
 filed; it can be moved earlier, so long as the facts are clear
 and there is reasonable basis for apprehending arrest. x x x x x". Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the present case

and the judgment passed by the Apex Court in Sushila Aggarwal 's case, in

case some cognizable action is to be taken against the petitioner, three days'

advance notice be issued to the petitioner. The petition stands disposed of.