Counter affidavit filed by Mr. R.B.S. Rathur, Advocate on behalf of the complainant is taken on record. Heard learned counsel for the applicant as well as learned A.G.A. for the State of U.P. and learned counsel for the complainant and also perused the record. The present bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant in F.I.R. No.241 of 2019, under Sections 376 , 506 I.P.C., Police Station - Madiaon, District - Lucknow North (Commissionerate Lucknow), with the prayer to enlarge him on bail. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that it is admitted case of the prosecution that the prosecutrix was in friendship with the applicant since the year 2015 and thereafter, she was in relationship with the application since September, 2018 on the pretext of marriage. He further submitted that in September, 2018, some personal photographs were taken by the applicant and the applicant also made physical relation with the victim, thereafter, threat was also given to the victim in case she made any complaint, then the photographs would be uploaded on the social sites. He further submitted that the victim was being physically abused by the applicant and on 07.01.2020, 16.01.2021, October 2021, November, 2021 and 10.02.2022 she was called by the applicant and taken some photographs and video and also committed rape with her and he started blackmailing, thereafter, the F.I.R. in question was lodged. Learned counsel for the applicant has further submitted that the applicant does not have any criminal antecedent and he is in jail since 21.04.2022. He further submitted that the investigation is already concluded, but no evidence related to the video and photographs are found by the Investigating Officer. He further submitted that the charge sheet is already filed and there is no possibility of tampering of any evidence. Therefore, the applicant is entitled for bail. In case of being enlarged on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. Learned A.G.A. as well as learned counsel for the complainant have vehemently opposed the prayer for grant of bail to the applicant and submitted that the prosecutrix has categorically supported the prosecution version in her statements recorded under Sections 161 as well as 164 Cr.P.C ., but they do not dispute this fact that the Investigating Officer has not got any video or photographs as alleged in the prosecution case. Considering the arguments of learned counsel for the applicant as well as learned A.G.A. and learned counsel for the complainant and also going through the contents of the bail application and counter affidavit as well as statement of victim recorded under Sections 161 as well as 164 Cr.P.C ., I am of the view that the applicant is entitled to be released on bail. Accordingly, the bail application is allowed. Let applicant -Aryan Mishra - be released on bail in aforesaid Case Crime, on his furnishing personal bond and two reliable sureties each of the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions:- Any violation of above conditions will be treated misuse of bail and learned Court below will be at liberty to pass appropriate order in the matter regarding cancellation of bail. Order Date :- 10.6.2022
 
S. Shivhare