The aforesaid criminal appeals arose out of the one and the same judgment and order of conviction dated 29.3.2010 passed by the court of Additional Session Judge, Court No. 24, Kanpur Nagar in the concerned Sessions Trial Nos. 1730 of 2008-State Vs. Vineet Kumar Pandey , concerning Case Crime No. 906 of 2008, Sessions Trial No. 1731 of 2008-State Vs. Vishnu Tiwari, concerning Case Crime No. 907 of 2008 and Sessions Trial No.1729 of 2008-State Vs. Amol Singh, concerning Case Crime No. 908 of 2008, each under Section 18 / 20 N.D.P.S. Act within Police Station Chakeri, District Kanpur Nagar, whereby each of the aforesaid appellants after being convicted under Section 20(B) (II)(B) has been sentenced under Section 18 / 20 N.D.P.S. Act to ten years Rigorous Imprisonment coupled with fine Rs. one lakh each with default stipulation to suffer additional six months Rigorous Imprisonment. Heard learned counsel for the appellants and Sri Om Narain Tripathi, learned A.G.A-I assisted by Sri Subhash Chandra Dwivedi, Brief Holder, for the State in all the above three connected criminal appeals and perused the record. Course of events leading up to this stage (appeal) as discernible from record, appears to be that a police party initially headed by S.I. Rishikant Shukla SOG Incharge including other police personnel were busy in patrolling in the night of 30.8.2008 and in the meanwhile, the aforesaid police party headed by S.I. Rishikant Shukla arrived at KDA crossing within the region of Police Station Chakeri and met with SHO Chakeri Sri Krishna Gopal Sharma alongwith other police personnel and after interaction with them, the police party started checking vehicles and for suspected persons. After sometime, three persons riding on a motorcycle coming from J.K.-I crossing were seen by the police. After seeing the police party, these persons got fluttered and suddenly tried to turn back the motorcycle but they fell down in the process. The police on being suspicious, surrounded these persons after chasing them to a distance of 30 paces from KDA crossing and apprehended them at 1.30 A.M. On being asked as to why they were fleeing away, they told that they were possessing contraband Charas. Upon such disclosure, the SOG Incharge S.I. Rishikant Shukla asked them if they wish to be searched either before any gazetted officer or a Magistrate then all the three accused said to him that they trust him, therefore, he may carry out search and they do not want to go to any other place. At this, consenting letters (Ext. Ka-1, Ext. Ka-2 and Ext. Ka-3) of each of the accused were prepared and endorsement of each of the accused was obtained on it. The police party after making their own search with each other, confirmed that they do not possess any illegal material and took three accused in confidence. It has been described in the arrest and recovery memo that it being night, public witnesses were not available. The SOG Incharge asked the person/accused who was driving the motorcycle and inquired of him, whereupon he spelled his name as Vineet Kumar Pandey, son of Shrikant, resident of village Behta, Police Station Shivli, District Kanpur Dehat and six polythene packets wherein some substance resembling Charas were recovered from a bag dangling on his shoulder. On being interrogated, the second person spelled his name Vishnu Tiwari, son of Rajendra Prakash, resident of Village Bheempur, Police Station Shivli, Kanpur Dehat and on search being made, 19 polythene packets wherein some substance resembling Charas was recovered from a bag gripped by him in his right hand. Besides, Rs. 200/- cash was also recovered from the pocket of his shirt. On interrogation with the third person, he named himself Amol Singh, son of Sahab Singh Chandel, resident of Village Behta, Police Station Shivli, Kanpur Dehat and on being searched, 34 polythene packets wherein also substance resembling Charas was recovered besides recovering Rs.300/- cash from the left pocket of his trouser. S.I. Devendra Singh in the meanwhile, conducted search of motorcycle No. UP 77-D-5612 Bajaj XCD-125, whereupon a weighing scale alongwith weights in the quantity of one Kg, 500 grams, 200 grams, 100 grams and 50 grams were recovered from the wallet attached to the motorcycle. Driver Vineet Kumar Pandey was asked about papers of the vehicle whereupon he could not show any document. All the packets recovered from the aforesaid three accused were kept opened and on smelling the same they smelt Charas like substance. All the three accused were asked to show the authority to keep the illicit contraband/substances whereupon they told that they were carrying Charas from Barabanki after getting it from an unknown person. They were going to sell the same when the police party caught them. They apologized for their misdeed. In the opinion of the police party and the informant, this act was found to be in violation of Section 18 / 20 of the N.D.P.S. Act, therefore, after complying the various mandatory provisions and directions as required under law, the aforesaid three appellants after being explained the cause of their respective arrest were taken into custody. The police party recovered six packets weighing approximately 2 Kg. substance from the accused Vineet Kumar Pandey. Similarly 6 Kg. substance in 19 packets was recovered from the possession of accused Vishnu Tiwari and 10 Kg. substance was recovered in 34 packets from the possession of accused Amol Singh. Three separate samples were prepared on the spot each weighing 100 grams after little quantity of substance was taken out from each of the packets recovered from the accused. The rest of the substance was kept in the respective bags of the accused. Specimen seal was prepared and the weighing scale and the weights were kept in the wallet attached to the motorcycle and was sealed in a cloth. Specimen seal was prepared and the motorcycle was also challaned under Section 207 of the Motor Vehicles Act. The memo of arrest and recovery was got prepared by S.I. Shaym Pratap Patel in the electric and torch light and contents of the memo of arrest and recovery was read over to all the accused and the witnesses and signatures/endorsements of the accused and the police personnel were obtained on it. The information of arrest was given from police station. The recovered cash was also kept under seal. Copy of this memo was given to Amol Singh with the consent of all the accused and signature of the accused was also obtained on it. This memo is the written report of this case, which is Ext. Ka-4. The contents of the aforesaid memo were noted down and taken against each of the aforesaid accused in the concerned check F.I.R. (Ext. Ka-5), at Police Station Chakeri, Kanpur Nagar on 30.8.2008 at 3.45 A.M. at Case Crime Nos. 906 of 2008, 907 of 2008 and 908 of 2008, under Section 18 / 20 N.D.P.S. Act against Vineet Kumar Pandey, Vishnu Tiwari and Amol Singh, respectively, and relevant entries were made in the concerned General Diary Rapat No. 11 at 3.45 (A.M.) at the aforesaid police station, at the aforesaid date and time and case was registered against the accused under the aforesaid case crime numbers. Information of the incident was given to the higher officers vide G.D. entry serial No. 11 at 3.45 on 30.8.2008. The copy of General Diary is Ext. Ka-6. The recovered substance/article was kept in Malkhana. Record further reflects that the aforesaid recovered substance/contraband was sent to the public analyst by order of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Kanpur Nagar vide Annexure-Ka-6A and Ext. Ka-7 respectively, and analyst's report pertaining to the substance recovered from the accused Vineet Kumar Pandey concerning Case Crime No. 906 of 2008 dated 23.8.2008 is Ext. Ka-13. Similarly, analyst's report concerning Case Crime No. 907 of 2008 pertaining to accused Vishnu Tiwari dated 23.8.2008 is Ext. Ka-14 and analyst's report in the matter of substance recovered from the accused Amol Singh concerning Case Crime No. 908 of 2008 is Ext. Ka-15. The analyst opined that the substance examined is Charas. The record reflects that the investigation was under way and the same was taken over by PW-6 S.I. Satyendra Singh Rathore who besides recording statement of the informant S.I. Rishikant Shukla PW-3 and other police personnel, prepared site plan of the place of arrest and recovery at the instance of the informant, which is Ext. Ka-9. The I.O. facilitated sending of the samples for chemical examination and after completing investigation, filed charge sheet against each of the aforesaid accused, which charge sheets are Ext. Ka-10, Ext. Ka-11 and Ext. Ka-12 respectively. Consequently, cognizance of the offence was taken by the Sessions Judge, Kanpur Nagar vide its order dated 5.11.2008. Thereafter, this case was made over for conduction and disposal of trial to the aforesaid court of Additional Session Judge, Court No. 24, Kanpur Nagar, who on being seized of the fact that the cases of the three accused are in shape of three different case crime numbers arising out of the one and the same incident at the same place and time, consolidated all the aforesaid session trials into one and making Session Trial No. 1730 of 2008-State Vs. Vineet Kumar Pandey to be the leading case. All the evidence was accordingly taken by him. In turn, the aforesaid trial judge heard each of the aforesaid accused on the point of charge and after being prima facie satisfied with the case against the accused, framed charge under Section 20(B) (II) (B) N.D.P.S. Act. Charge was read over and explained to the accused who abjured the charge and opted for trial. In order to prove its case, prosecution produced in all six witnesses. A brief reference of the witnesses is sketched as herein:-