1.	This application is moved by the applicant/accused for bail as the applicant/accused is prosecuted for the offences punishable under Sections 489B , 489C I.P.C. and 16 Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (hereinafter referred to as ''the Act') registered as Case Crime No.02 of 2015, Police Station ATS, District Lucknow. 2.	Heard Sri Ishan Baghel (Senior Advocate) assisted by Sri Sajeet Singh, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Shiv Nath Tilahri, learned AGA for the State. 3.	As per prosecution story a vehicle ''Bolero' bearing registration No.B.R. 22P 6092 driven by the applicant was intercepted at Gorakhpur Bus Stand, Gorakhpur at early morning of 02.06.2015. It is further alleged that upon conducting a search of applicant and his bag, the total high quality counterfeit Indian currency of worth Rs.5,04,500/- was recovered from the possession of the applicant, namely, Mohd. Mehboob Ali on 02.06.2015 at 03:45 am from Gorakhpur Bus Stand and the arrest was made at 06:45 am on 02.06.2015. A recovery memo was prepared on the spot at 08:50 am and thereafter aforesaid first information report was registered at Lucknow ATS Headquarters and the investigation was carried out by Sub Inspector, Pramod Kumar Verma, ATS, Lucknow. 4.	Learned counsel for applicant/accused has submitted that the applicant/accused is innocent and has not committed any offence. 5.	He has further submitted that the alleged place of arrest was a public place but no independent witness has been named in the recovery memo by the prosecution. The Investigating Agency recovered Rs.50,000/- of high quality counterfeit fake currency on the pointing of the accused on 09.06.2015 which is highly improbable as no independent witness is mentioned in the recovery memo. The mandatory provision provided under Section 100 Cr.P.C. regarding independent witness has not been complied with. 6.	It has also been argued that there was no material before Investigating Officer which may be a threat to the Unity, Integrity, Security or Economic Security or Sovereignty of India. 7.	Learned counsel for the applicant has further pointed out that the mandatory provisions of Section 6 National Investigating Agency Act, 2008 and Section 52 of the Act have not been complied with. Initially, charge-sheet under Section 489-B and 489-C I.P.C. was submitted against the applicant and later on Section 16 of the Act was added and additional charge-sheet was submitted accordingly. The mandatory provisions pertaining to the grant of sanction have neither been followed by the Investigating Officer nor Sanctioning Authority. 8.	Lastly, it has been pointed out that there is no evidence of fake currency being brought through Nepal except the statement of accused-applicant, and he has neither engaged in the unlawful activities nor has any concern with the material recovered. It has also been contended that the applicant has no criminal history, this is the first case in which he has been falsely implicated. 9.	Per contra, learned AGA for the State has opposed the application and categorically stated in the counter affidavit that the accused-applicant is resident of Nepal and was arrested with the fake currency on 02.06.2015. It has further been submitted that the release of the accused-applicant may peril the economic security of the country as he may repeat the offence, temper with the evidence and also abscond. This application is devoid of merit and deserves to be dismissed. 10.	I have considered the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 11.	Learned counsel for the applicant/accused has vehemently argued that as per prosecution case itself there is no evidence of circulation of fake currency which is an offence under Section 489-B I.P.C. which read as follows: Till date nothing has been shown which may indicate any participation of the applicant in selling, buying, receiving or otherwise trafficking of any forged or counterfeit currency, as such, no prima facie offence under Section 489-B is made out against the applicant. The sole contention of the prosecution is that the applicant was found in possession of forged or counterfeit currency-notes which is an offence under Section 489-C and the same is punishable up to seven years. 12.	The next contention of learned counsel for the applicant/accused pertains to the offence under the Act and has referred rules and provisions which read as follows: [Explanation - For the purpose of this sub-section - (b) "high quality counterfeit Indian currency" means the counterfeit currency as may be declared after examination by an authorised or notified forensic authority that such currency imitates or compromises with the key security features as specified in the Third Schedule.] 13.	It has been argued that there is no evidence of production, smuggling or circulation of high quality counterfeit Indian Paper Currency against the applicant. Moreover, the counterfeit currency has neither been examined nor been declared by the authorised or notified authority that such currency imitates or compromises with the key security features as specified in the Third Schedule. There is no substantial and cogent reason to attribute any Terrorist Act to the applicant. 14.	Learned counsel has drawn attention towards the following provisions also which read as follows: 15.	Learned counsel for the applicant has also referred The Investigation of High Quality Counterfeit Indian Currency Offences Rules, 2013 which read as under:- Rule 6. Procedure for applying the provisions of sub-clause (iiia) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 15 read with section 16 - (1) When a case has been registered upon seizure of currency suspected to be high quality counterfeit Indian currency, the Investigating Officer shall forthwith send the seized currency or sample thereof to the authorised or notified forensic authority and the said authority shall forward a preliminary report, as to whether the seized currency is "high quality counterfeit Indian currency" within fifteen days of receipt of such samples. (2) The Investigating Officer shall forward the seized currency by the quickest means to the notified forensic authority, not later than forty-eight hours of the seizure, and the notified forensic authority shall communicate the results of the examination to the requisitioning officer by the quickest possible means including e-mail or facsimile. It has also been contended by learned counsel for the applicant/accused that as per above mentioned rules, the currency seized or its sample was not forwarded to the Forensic Authority for a preliminary report, as to whether the seized currency is "high quality counterfeit Indian currency" within the prescribed time limit. No report, as such, has been obtained by the Investigating Officer within the said time limits as mentioned above. 16.	Learned counsel for the applicant has also contended that the sanction required as per provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) (Recommendation and Sanction of Prosecution) Rules, 2008, has not been obtained and in this context he has referred relevant provisions and rules pertaining to the sanction for prosecution under the said Act which read as follows:- The relevant rules are as under: - It has been argued that the procedure laid down in the aforesaid provisions and rules has not been followed by the prosecution. The time limit prescribed for recommendation by the authority and for decision for sanction of prosecution have also not been complied with. All these instances create a suspicion and lean in favour of the applicant. 17.	Learned counsel for applicant has also referred Izharul Haq Abdul Hamid Shaikh and another vs. State of Gujarat (2009) 5 SCC 283, Criminal Appeal No.811 of 2008 with Nos. 813 of 2008 and 453 of 2009, Ravi Sharma @ Arjun @ Mahesh @ Ashok vs. The State of Jharkhand & Others , W.P. (Cr.) No. 91 of 2012 with I.A. No.640 of 2012 and Premkumar Karnaram Choudhary vs. State of Maharashtra, (2017) SCC Online Bom 3352, Bail Application No. 122 of 2017. 18.	Learned AGA has argued that the stage of examining validity of the sanction is during trial and placed reliance on C.B.I. vs. Ashok Kumar Aggarwal , 2013 Law Suit (SC) 1178, Criminal Appeal No.1838 of 2013. It has further been argued that the entire procedure has been followed and sanction was filed in time but due to some error it was modified and later on modified sanction was filed. 19.	At present the bail of the applicant/accused is under consideration and there appears no reason to delve into the validity of the prosecution sanction and its procedure. This issue may be examined in its entirety during the trial. High quality counterfeit fake currency of Rs.5,54,500/- is said to be recovered from the possession of the accused/applicant. As per prosecution, the applicant is a resident of Nepal and driving licence issued by Nepal authorities, certificate of Nepal citizenship, five visiting cards and debit cards of different banks were also recovered from him. According to the examination report, the referred suspected notes of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- are certified as "high quality counterfeit notes". 20.	Having considered the nature of the offence and the act of the accused-applicant, coupled with the fact that high quality fake currency of Rs.5,54,500/- was found to be in possession of the applicant which may put the safety and security of nation at stake and also considering the gravity involving security of the nation, wherein the applicant is actively involved, as such, is not entitled to be released on bail. 21.	Accordingly, I do not find any ground for granting bail to the accused applicant. 22.	The bail application is accordingly rejected. (Rekha Dikshit, J.)
 
Order Date :- 21.9.2017
 
Nitin Verma