CHAPTER III

 MERGER OF PROVISIONS OF IRDA ACT, 1999 WITH THE INSURANCE
 ACT, 1938

3.1.1 This topic, it will be seen, is the third item of the seven topics set out in para
 1.7.2, infra. 3.1.2 In the Consultation Paper, the Law Commission had suggested that there was no
 justification for continuing to have a separate legislation concerning the IRDA
 and that there was a need to merge the provisions of the IRDA Act, 1999 with the Insurance Act, 1938 in order to "to bring about an integrated approach to the task
 of formulating a legislative regime that can encompass the key facets of the
 functioning of the Regulatory Authority even while strengthening the regulatory
 regime". The rationale behind the above suggestion was explained thus: Accordingly, the Consultation Paper made detailed proposals for merger of the
 provisions of the IRDA Act, 1999 with the Insurance Act, 1938 . 3.1.3 In view of the responses received endorsing the recommendations made by the
 Law Commission in this regard, the proposals for merger of the provisions of the IRDA Act, 1999 with the Insurance Act, 1938 are hereby finalised and set out in a 25 tabular form in Appendix-IV to this Report. Accordingly, it is recommended that
 the following provisions of the IRDA Act, 1999 , viz., s.2 (Definitions), Chapter II
 dealing with establishment and incidental matters of authority (ss.3-12); Chapter
 IV dealing with duties, powers and functions of the authority (s.14); Chapter V
 dealing with grants by Central Government, IRDA fund, accounts and audit
 (ss.15- 17); Chapter VI dealing with powers of Central Government (ss.18 - 23 & 25); s.24 providing the central government with power to make Rules; s..26
 empowering Authority to make Regulations; s..27 requiring laying of Rules and
 Regulations before Parliament and s.28 (not barring application of other laws) be
 merged with the provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 as indicated in Appendix-
 IV to this Report. Powers and functions of IRDA
3.1.4 As regards the powers and functions of the IRDA, the Consultation Paper dealt
 with the proposal for change in the law in two parts. The first related to the
 powers of the IRDA to grant, refuse, cancel, suspend or renew registration. There
 have been several responses received in regard to the suggestion concerning
 registration and renewal. According to FICCI, when there are sufficient powers
 with the IRDA to cancel registration "it makes little sense to require insurers to
 apply for renewal of registration". The Punjab State Law Commission suggests
 that there should be no change in these provisions or even reduction of the
 renewal fee. Cholamandalam General Insurance has suggested that the
 registration for life and general insurance business may be kept valid for a period
 of three years. Birla Sunlife Insurance welcomes the suggestions but is opposed to
 insisting upon all requirements of a fresh registration being met at the stage of
 renewal of registration. The LIC of India also has made a suggestion on the same
 lines. They suggest that s.3A (5) may continue in its present form. The National
 Insurance Academy, Pune agrees with the suggestion that the registration may be
 kept valid for three years but that the fees be paid annually. Final recommendations in relation to IRDA's powers of grant, refusal etc. of
 registration

3.1.5 After considering these responses, the Law Commission is of the view that the
 specific changes proposed in the Consultation Paper in regard to the IRDA's
 powers in relation to grant, refuse, cancel, suspend or renew registration be
 finalised and the final recommendations in this regard are set out in Appendix-V
 to this Report. The sections of the Insurance Act, 1938 which are required to be
 accordingly amended are s.3 , s.3(2)(f), s.3(2A), s.94A(2) (second proviso),
 s.3(2C), s.3(3), s.3(4), s.3A, s.3A(2), s.3A(3), s.3A(4) and s.3A(5) . Final recommendation on IRDA's powers of revaluation, investigation etc.

3.1.6 The second part of these proposals concerned the powers of the IRDA in relation
 to revaluation of the affairs of the insurer, investigation, search and seizure,
 appointment and removal of managerial persons. The Commission has considered
 the responses received to the proposals and the final recommendations are set out
 in Appendix-VI to this Report. These recommendations to cover amendments to
 the following sections of the Insurance Act, 1938 : s.33(1), s.33 (4), s.33(8), s.34B
 (4), s.34C, s.34E, s.34G, s.34H, s.35(1), s.35(3), s.36, s.37A(2), s.37A(4), s.42
 (1), s.42(2), s.42(3), s.42(4), s.42(5), s.42(6), s.42(7), s.42D, s.42D (1) proviso (a),
 s.42D(8) & (9), s.64UM, s.64UM (1A) s.44, s.47A and s.53 . *** 27 CHAPTER IV

 GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISM

 Consultation Paper

4.1.1 In the Consultation Paper, one of the grounds for revision was identified as the
 need to set up an effective grievance redressal machinery to deal with the
 numerous complaints of policyholders, which had hitherto not been satisfactorily
 dealt with. It was pointed out that notwithstanding the appointment of an
 Ombudsman under the Redressal of Public Grievances Rules, 1998 in exercise of
 powers under s.114 (1) of the Insurance Act, 1938 the existing machinery for
 addressing the grievances of policyholders had not been found to be satisfactory.
 The remedy under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 did also not prove to be
 effective given the large number of cases pending decision. It was therefore
 suggested that there should be a composite, effective and independent grievance
 redressal mechanism modeled on the one set up under the Securities and
 Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (SEBI Act ). 4.1.2 The proposal of the Law Commission in the Consultation Paper was that: These would thus be statutory authorities exercising statutory functions. (b) The GRA could be multi-member bodies comprising one judicial member and
 two technical members. A certain degree of transparency should be induced in
 the process of selection of such members. (c) The GRAs should be dispersed as geographically widely as possible. For
 instance, there could be GRAs in each of the major cities in the country. This 28 is necessary given the large number of policyholders at present and the
 prospect of this growing in the future. (d) The powers and jurisdiction of the GRAs would include all the powers and
 functions presently performed by Ombudsman under the 1998 Rules. (e) In addition to the above, it could be provided that all pending disputes arising
 under the Insurance Act, 1938 before the consumer fora would be transferred
 to the GRAs for disposal in accordance with the provisions of the Insurance
 Act, 1938 . To this extent an amendment may have to be made in the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 to provide that disputes arising under the Insurance Act, 1938 will not be entertained under the Consumer Protection
 Act, 1986 . (f) IRDA will appoint Adjudicating Officers to inquire/adjudicate violations of
 the Act, Rules and Regulations by insurers, insurance intermediaries and
 insurance agents and levy penalties as provided for in the Insurance Act, 1938 . (g) An Insurance Appellate Tribunal (IAT) on the lines of the one under the SEBI
 Act should be constituted having its sitting at a principal Bench in New Delhi
 and by circuit in the four major metropolises. The IAT will hear appeals
 against decisions of the GRAs and the Adjudicating Officers. The decision of
 the IAT will be final. The IAT will also entertain appeals against the
 decisions/orders of the IRDA concerning insurers, insurance intermediaries
 and insurance agents including those pertaining to registration and licensing. (h) There will lie a further statutory appeal to the Supreme Court from the
 decision of the IAT on the lines of s.15 Z of the SEBI Act. The appeal will
 have to be filed within 60 days of the decision of the IAT. (i) There will be a clause expressly excluding the jurisdiction of civil courts in
 disputes arising under the Insurance Act, 1938 . However, this will not include
 claims/ disputes arising under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and the Marine
 Insurance Act 1963. (j) On the lines of sections 41 and 42 of the LIC Act, 1956, the decision of the
 GRA may be made enforceable in any civil court within the local limits of
 whose jurisdiction the decree holder actually and voluntarily resides. (k) With a view to encouraging alternative dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms,
 it may be provided that a claimant may be first referred to an ADR
 mechanism, which would include mediation and/ or conciliation, and only if
 that fails, should the matter been placed before GRA. Further, the GRA may
 itself refer the pending dispute before it to an ADR process at any stage of the
 proceedings, with the consent of the parties. Response to the Consultation Paper
4.2.1. The response to the above proposals of the Law Commission has been positive. While welcoming these proposals, the FICCI has suggested that the proposed
 machinery "would be creative and maintained by appropriate government
 agencies and that no costs on this account will be borne by the insurance
 industry". LIC too has welcomed the suggestion and observed that the burden on
 the consumer fora will be reduced considerably if the proposal is implemented.
 LIC has suggested that "a mechanism may be evolved whereby 50% expenses are
 shared by the Central/State Government and 25% by the IRDA". Om Kotak
 Mahindra Life Insurance has suggested that the Insurance Ombudsmen should
 themselves be redesignated as the GRA and that it must be clearly spelt out as to
 which of the two decisions - that of the GRA or the consumer forum - would
 prevail in event of conflict of opinions. This point may straight away be clarified
 by stating that the creation of the GRA would necessarily oust the jurisdiction of
 the consumer fora over the same subject matter. 4.2.2 The General Insurance Corporation of India has also welcomed the constitution of
 the GRA as well as an IAT. They have made very specific suggestions as to what
 kinds of disputes should go before the GRA and what should be the jurisdiction of
 the IAT. GIC has suggested that the jurisdiction of the GRA should extend to: 4.2.3 As regards the jurisdiction of the IAT, the suggestion of GIC is that it should hear: (iii) Appeal against any order passed by the IRDA.. 4.2.4 In addition to the above suggestions, GIC has suggested that the GRA must have
 its own machinery capable of executing its orders on the lines of Recovery
 Officers of the Debt Recovery Tribunal. However, GIC opposes the idea of
 investing the adjudicating officers with powers to levy penalties since criminal
 liability should be determined only by a judicial authority. United India Insurance
 has also welcomed the suggestion of having the GRA and IAT in place of the
 existing mechanisms. They suggest that a fee in the nature of 'adjudications fee'
 commensurate with the value of the claim may be levied to meet the expenditure
 and deter frivolous claims. 4.2.5 However, Birla Sunlife Insurance Co. Ltd., ICICI Prudential Life Insurance and
 HDFC Standard Life Insurance have expressed reservations about the setting up
 of the GRA. In their view, the present system of Ombudsman should be further
 strengthened and made accountable being placed under the overall supervision of
 the IRDA. They are of the view that the creation of one more tribunal for
 redressal of policyholders' grievances will add to their expenses and not provide
 an effective or efficacious remedy. 4.2.6 The Consumer Rights Educational and Awareness Trust, Bangalore has opposed
 the proposal of ousting the jurisdiction of the consumer fora since the remedy
 under the Consumer Protection Act is in addition to and not in derogation of the
 existing laws. They have also opposed the idea of an insurance appellate tribunal.
 The other consumer body, CERC Ahmedabad has preferred the continuation of
 the mechanism of Ombudsman by strengthening it with more powers. However,
 the General Insurers (Public Sector) Association of India has welcomed the
 suggestion and suggested that a retired High Court Judge should head the GRA.
 They also would like an adjudication fee to be levied. 4.2.7 At this juncture, reference has to be made to an important suggestion by the Law
 Department of the Government of West Bengal that there should be a specific
 provision to combat insurance fraud by describing it as a crime and providing for
 both civil and criminal liabilities for persons indulging in insurance fraud. The
 suggestion is that there should be a specialized insurance fraud bureau and that
 immunity must be provided for anyone who shares information about suspected
 fraud. In the Consultation Paper, the Law Commission had proposed that the
 power to levy penalties for violation of the provisions of the Act be vested with
 the GRA itself. However, the criminal justice mechanism would have to be
 invoked for dealing with frauds since it is a specific offence under the penal law.
 It would be both confusing and burdensome for the GRA to also exercise criminal
 jurisdiction. The Law Commission is also not in favour of creating special
 offences in relation to insurance frauds. The experience with creation of special
 offences shows that it serves to increase the burden of the judiciary without there
 being any perceptible positive change either in conviction rates or in disposal of
 such cases. The Commission is of the view that the existing provisions of the IPC ,
 if strictly enforced, are sufficient to deal with the malaise. 4.2.8 By far, the most detailed response that the Commission has received is from the
 National Insurance Academy, Pune. They have given detailed suggestions in
 relation to the setting up of the GRA. Principally, they agree with the proposal 32 that the present system of Ombudsman should be replaced by a statutory
 mechanism provided for in the Act itself. They further point out that such
 mechanism should be "cost effective and should also serve the purpose of
 protecting the interest of policyholders." The modification that they have
 suggested to the proposal of the Law Commission is to statutorily mandate, in the
 first instance, that every insurer should have an "Apex Grievance Redressal
 Mechanism" within the organisation itself. They suggest that the GRA should be
 presided over by a retired Judge of the High Court and that the procedure for
 selecting the two other technical members should be transparent. The screening
 for the appointments should be by a Committee appointed by the Insurance
 Council. The IAT should consist of a retired Supreme Court Judge and two other
 experts. A further appeal against the order of the IAT should lie to the Supreme
 Court. The idea is that every policyholder should first exhaust the internal
 mechanism before approaching the GRA. The Commission accepts this
 suggestion of the National Insurance Academy, Pune. 4.2.9 There is one development that has taken place in the recent past which requires to
 be noticed. It was reported in the January 2004 issue of the IRDA Journal that the
 Central Government had set up an Appellate Authority to review the rulings of
 the IRDA. According to the IRDA Journal, the notification issued by the Central
 Government has set up both a single and a division bench of the Appellate
 Authority and the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance, will constitute the single
 bench and while on the division bench he would be joined by another Joint
 Secretary of the Ministry of Law. The Law Commission is constrained to observe
 that whatever may be the compulsions of the Government to constitute such an
 Appellate Tribunal, the said arrangement is far from satisfactory in terms of
 having an independent and impartial adjudicatory appellate body. Law Commission's views on the responses

4.3.1 The Law Commission has carefully considered the wide range of responses
 received to its proposal for an independent grievance redressal mechanism. While 33 the Commission is conscious that there are bound to be different points of view to
 any proposal for change, the present proposal for an independent GRA must be
 viewed as having received more or less a positive response barring a few who
 would like the status quo to continue. The Commission is of the firm view that the
 existing system of Ombudsman, who is not necessarily a person with judicial
 background, is not satisfactory from the point of view of consumers and
 policyholders or even from the point of view of the insurers. The said scheme in
 the Regulations which does not permit the insurer to question the decision of the
 Ombudsman but which permits the insured to reject the same, appears to be
 contrary to the principles of equality to access to justice. In order to instill a
 degree of confidence in the policyholders and insurers, particularly in the changed
 scenario where a number of private players are in the market, it is imperative to
 have an independent, transparent and accountable grievance redressal mechanism
 to address the concerns of the policyholders. The Commission, therefore, cannot
 agree with the suggestion that the existing system of Ombudsman should be
 continued. 4.3.2 The Commission accepts the suggestion that it should be statutorily mandatory for
 every insurer to put in place an in-house grievance redressal mechanism which
 should be fair and transparent and subject to supervision by the IRDA. It is only
 after exhausting the remedy of approaching the in-house mechanism, that a
 complaint should be entertained by the GRA. Of course, where a complaint
 remains un-attended to by the in-house mechanism for a maximum period to be
 spelt out in the statute itself, preferably sixty days, it will be open for such person/
 complainant to approach the GRA. The internal mechanism, it is obvious, must be
 made to conform to the principles of natural justice and also to a right of personal
 hearing and a reasoned order must be made. 4.3.3 The Commission also accepts the suggestion that the IRDA should itself appoint
 Adjudicating/ Investigating Officers to adjudicate violations of the Act, Rules and
 Regulations by insurers, insurance intermediaries and insurance agents and these
 officers will also have the power to levy the penalties as provided for in the Act. There will be an appeal from the decision of the Adjudicating/ Investigating
 Officer to the IAT. 4.3.4 The Commission also accepts the suggestion that the respective scope of powers
 of GRA and IAT should be clearly spelt out. There will be one further statutory
 appeal from the decision of the IAT to the Supreme Court. The GRA as the
 primary authority, as well as the IAT, which is the appellate authority, are dealing
 with civil rights of parties and are not adjudicating any public law issues or rights.
 If, on the other hand, the GRA or IAT are dealing with public law issues or rights,
 it would have become necessary to provide judicial review before the High Court
 as decided in L. Chandrakumar v. Union of India (1997) 3 SCC 261. Yet another
 aspect of the matter is that though technically the orders of the GRA or IAT can
 be questioned under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India, in the High
 Court, the High Court will not ordinarily exercise its discretionary jurisdiction if
 an effective alternate remedy is provided and that is why we are recommending a
 statutory appeal from the GRA to the IAT and then from the IAT to the Supreme
 Court. The decision of the GRA will be enforceable as a decree of a civil court.
 The Commission also accepts the suggestion of the levy of an adjudication fee but
 this will only apply to such of those complainants who are in an economically
 sound position and not to small policyholders. 4.3.5 The Law Commission has also considered the question of the tenure of members
 of the GRA and IAT as well as the question of their removal. The nature and
 composition of the GRA now proposed is akin to that of the District Consumer
 Forum under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . The other model of a similar
 tribunal is under the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 . The Commission is
 aware that in both these fora, the tenure of a member or President is for a fixed
 term of five years and the age of retirement is 65 years. The Law Commission
 would like to ensure that both the GRAs the IATs are independent and
 accordingly recommends that the appointments to these two bodies should not be
 for any fixed tenure but with the age of retirement fixed at 65 years. Since it is 35 recommended that one of the qualifications for being appointed as member,
 whether judicial or technical, is at least 20 years' experience, it is only appropriate
 that such persons are not appointed for a tenure but permitted to hold office till
 the age of 65 years. 4.3.6 As regards, removal of the President and Members for proven misbehaviour or
 incapacity, the Commission recommends that insofar as the President and
 Members of GRA are concerned, they can be removed for proven misbehaviour
 or incapacity after an enquiry made by a Judge of the High Court and in which
 enquiry the President or the Member concerned will be informed the charges and
 given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges. As
 regards the President or Members of the IAT, the procedure for removal on
 grounds of proven misbehaviour or incapacity will be the same with one
 difference. The enquiry will be made by a Judge of the Supreme Court. It is hoped
 that this will ensure a sufficient degree of independence to the GRA as well as the
 IAT. 4.3.7 The salary and other terms and conditions applicable to the President and
 Members of these bodies should be left to be prescribed by the Central
 Government by way of rules. It is expected that these will correspond to the terms
 and conditions applicable to members of other statutory tribunals performing
 similar functions. Final recommendations of the Law Commission in regard to Grievance
 Redressal Mechanism

4.3.8 The final recommendations of the Law Commission in regard to the grievance
 redressal mechanism may be summarised thus: This is necessary given the large number of policyholders at present and
 the prospect of this growing in the future. There could be more than one
 GRA in a State depending on the number of cases in that State.
 Powers and jurisdiction of GRA (vi) The powers and jurisdiction of the GRAs would include all the powers and
 functions of the civil court and would involve adjudication of issues of
 fact and law. (vii) In addition to the above, it could be provided that all pending disputes
 arising under the Insurance Act, 1938 before the consumer fora would be
 transferred to the GRAs for disposal in accordance with the provisions of
 the Insurance Act, 1938 . To this extent an amendment may have to be
 made in the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 to provide that disputes
 arising under the Insurance Act, 1938 will not be entertained under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . Exclusion of Civil Courts (viii) There will be a clause expressly excluding the jurisdiction of civil courts
 and other tribunal/ fora in regard to such matters that form the subject 38 matter of the jurisdiction of the GRA. Every claimant before the GRA will
 be required to make an express declaration that no similar claim has been
 made before any other fora or tribunal and further that he has availed the
 in-house mechanism of the insurer as indicated in para (ii) above. Alternate dispute resolution (ix) With a view to encouraging alternate dispute resolution (ADR) by way of
 mediation or conciliation, it may be provided that a claimant may have the
 choice to opt for mediation or conciliation, in which case the GRA will
 refer the dispute for mediation or conciliation by a person or body agreed
 upon, or were there is no agreement, by a person or body nominated by the
 GRA from a panel prepared by it. Further, the GRA may itself refer the
 pending dispute before it to an ADR process at any stage of the
 proceedings, with the consent of the parties. Powers of GRA regarding enforcement of decisions (x) The decision of the GRA, or the final decision on appeal, will be
 enforceable by the GRA which pass the initial order and for that purpose
 the GRA will exercise all the powers of a civil court. Composition of GRA (xi) The GRA should be a multi-member body comprising of one judicial
 member who will be the President and two technical members. The
 President and Members of the GRA will hold office till the age of 65
 years. The President of the GRA should be a retired Judicial Officer not
 below the rank of a senior Civil Judge or a lawyer with not less than 20
 years of experience nominated in consultation with the Chief Justice of the
 High Court. (xii) As regards, appointment of technical members to the GRA is concerned,
 consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court is not necessary. A
 panel of names of persons of not less than 15 years experience in the
 insurance industry can be prepared by the Central Government and sent to
 a Selection Committee comprising the members of the Insurance Councils 39 constituted under s.64C of the Act. The said Selection Committee will
 recommend the names from among the panel of technical members to be
 appointed to the GRA. The Central Government will make rules in
 relation to the salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of
 service of the President and Members of the GRA. (xiii) The GRA will formulate rules of procedure to cover matters relating to
 filing of claims, completion of pleadings, evidence on affidavits or
 otherwise, passing of awards and furnishing copies. These rules of
 procedure will also deal with matters relating to enforcement of the
 decisions of the GRA as finally determined in appeals therefrom. Removal of President and Members of GRA (xiv) The President or Members of GRA shall not be removed from office
 except by an order made by the President on ground of proved
 misbehaviour or incapacity after enquiry made by a Judge of the High
 Court in which such President or Member has been informed of the
 charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in
 respect of those charges. The Central Government will make rules to
 regulate the procedure for the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity
 of the President and Members of the GRA. Insurance Appellate Tribunal (IAT) (xv) An appeal will lie from the decision of the GRA to an Insurance Appellate
 Tribunal (IAT) the jurisdiction of which will extend to hearing: constitution of the IAT, the appellate authority constituted by a
 notification of the Central Government (as noticed in para 4.2.9
 infra) will have to be wound up and the appeals pending before it
 will stand automatically transferred to the IAT; (d) Making of interim orders, conditional or otherwise, in relation to
 the above matters. Composition of IAT

(xvi) The IAT should be a multi-member body of a judicial member as
 President and two technical members. The IAT should be presided over by
 a retired High Court Judge nominated in consultation with the Chief
 Justice of India. A certain degree of transparency should be induced in the
 process of selection of such members. The appointments of technical
 members to the IAT should also be done in consultation with the Chief
 Justice of India. For this purpose, a panel of names of persons of not less
 than 20 years experience in the insurance industry should be sent by the
 Insurance Councils (constituted under s.64C of the Act) to the Chief
 Justice of India. The names of technical members will be chosen with the
 concurrence of the Chief Justice of India. The Central Government will
 make rules in relation to the salaries and allowances and other terms and
 conditions of service of the President and Members of the IAT. Term and removal of President and Members of IAT
(xvii) The President and Members of the IAT will hold office till the age of 68
 years. The removal of the President and the Members of the IAT for
 proven misbehaviour or incapacity will be upon enquiry by a Judge of the
 Supreme Court in which such President or Member has been informed of
 the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard
 in respect of those charges. The Central Government will make rules to
 regulate the procedure for the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity
 of the President and Members of the IAT. Location and Benches of IAT
(xviii) The Principal Bench of the Insurance Appellate Tribunal (IAT) should be
 in New Delhi. It is preferable that there is one IAT in each State.
 However, there can be one IAT for one or more States as may be decided 41 by the Central Government, or by agreement between State Governments
 on the pattern of s.4(3) of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985. (xix) The IAT will formulate rules of procedure to cover matters relating to
 filing of appeals, completion of pleadings, making of orders both interim
 and final and furnishing copies. Expenditure of GRA and IAT
(xx) The expenditure for the constitution of the GRAs and the IATs and their
 maintenance must be borne by the Central Government in as much as they
 are to adjudicate disputes arising under a central statute.
 Further appeal to Supreme Court
(xxi) There will be a further statutory appeal to the Supreme Court from the
 decision of the IAT. The appeal will have to be filed within 60 days of the
 decision of the IAT. Adjudication fee
(xxii) There should be an adjudication fee levied in respect of a claim before the
 GRA and an appeal before the IAT. However, any individual
 policyholder, may upon showing sufficient cause, be exempt by the GRA
 or the IAT, as the case may be, from paying such adjudication fee. *** 42 CHAPTER V

 LEGAL ISSUES REQUIRING REFORM IN INSURANCE LAWS: 5.1.1 S.45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 provides that a policy of life insurance cannot be
 called in question by an insurer after the expiry of two years from the date on
 which it was effected on the ground that a statement made in the proposal for
 insurance or in any other document leading to the issue of the policy was
 inaccurate or false "unless the insurer shows that such statement was on a
 material matter or suppressed facts which it was material to disclose and that
 it was fraudulently made by the policyholder and that the policyholder knew
 at the time of making it that the statement was false or that it suppressed
 facts which it was material to disclose". 5.1.2 The position, therefore, is that at any time up to two years after the date on which
 a life insurance policy is effected, an insurer can repudiate the policy if any
 material facts contained in the proposal or document on the basis of which the
 policy was issued was inaccurate or false; this can be done unilaterally by the
 insurer without having to prove the basis for repudiating the policy. However,
 after the expiry of a period of two years after the date on which a life insurance
 policy is effected such policy can be repudiated by the insurer on the ground that
 a statement made in the proposal for insurance or in any other document leading
 to the issue of the policy was inaccurate or false only if all the three conditions
 enumerated in the second part of s.45 are satisfied conjointly, i.e., (a) the
 statement must be on a material matter, or it suppresses facts which it was
 material to disclose; (b) the suppression must have been fraudulently made by the
 policy-holder; and (c) the policy-holder must have known that it was false or it
 suppressed facts which it was material to disclose. (See Mithoolal Nayak v. LIC of
 India AIR 1962 SC 814) 43 The principle of uberrimae fidei
5.1.3 The principle governing s.45 is that of uberrimae fidei (also referred to as
 uberrima fides) which requires that the insured should fully disclose to the insurer
 at the time of entering into the contract of insurance all material facts within the
 knowledge of insured. This principle of common law, which has been adopted in
 India, has been elucidated in the judgment of Lord Mansfield in Carter v. Boehm
 [(1758-1774) All ER Rep 183] in the following words: Decisions of Indian courts
5.1.4 The above principle has been reiterated in the judgments of the High Courts as
 well as the Supreme Court of India in the context of challenges by the claimants
 under a life insurance policy to the decision of the insurer to repudiate such
 policy. The decision in Mithoolal Nayak (supra), already referred to, has been
 followed in Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Smt. G.M. Channabasamma ,
 (1991) 1 SCC 357 and more recently in Life Insurance Corporation of India v.
 Asha Goel (2001) 2 SCC 160. 5.1.5 What constitutes a material fact, which affects the risk sought to be undertaken by
 the insurer, would depend upon the facts and circumstances of a particular case 44 and can be established only by leading evidence. [See Seaton v. Bernard (1900)
 AC 135] A suppression of a fact or a misrepresentation in relation to the health
 status of the insured, it has been held, will enable the insurer to repudiate a policy
 [ Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Sosamma Punnan (1992) 74 Comp Cas
 218 (Ker)]. However, the misstatement of age, for instance, need not in every case
 tantamount to a material misstatement although it would be relevant for fixing the
 quantum of premium in relation to the sum assured ( Life Insurance Corporation
 of India v. Vasappa AIR 1987 Kar 216). 5.1.6 The courts in India (and the consumer fora) have been consistent in requiring the
 insurer to prove the existence of all the three conditions in the second part of s.45 where the insurer seeks to repudiate a life insurance policy after the expiry of two
 years of its coming into effect. [See Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Smt.
 Kusuma T. Rai (1991) 70 Comp Cas 86 (Kar); Shanta Trivedi v. Life Insurance
 Corporation of India AIR 1988 Del 39 and Senior Divisional Manager, LIC v.
 Smt. J. Vinaya (2003) 1 CPJ 50 (NC)] In this context, the following observations
 of the Supreme Court in the recent decision of 2001 in Life Insurance
 Corporation of India v. Asha Goel (supra) are relevant (para 16, p.170 SCC): 5.1.10 It will be noticed that this proposal was in total variance with s.45 . Response to the Proposal in the Consultation Paper
5.1.11 The response received to the above proposal in the Consultation Paper has been a
 mixed one. Predictably, the private insurers have opposed the change arguing that
 it would encourage frauds and is liable to be misused. Birla Sun Life Insurance
 Company Ltd. points out that that the recommendation of the Law Commission
 would "completely negate the uberrimae fidei character of a life insurance
 contract." Birla Sunlife is of the view that the courts are anyway leaning in favour
 of the claimant. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Ltd. suggests retention of the
 present s.45 without change. HDFC Standard Life Insurance Ltd., while insisting
 that there should be no change, has suggested that a proviso be inserted to the
 effect that even within two years a policy can be called in question by the insurer
 only if the statement incorrectly made is material to the expectancy of life. OM
 Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Co. suggests retention of the provision subject to
 the condition that where the repudiation is after the expiry of three years after the
 coming into force of the policy, the onus of proving materiality of the misstated
 fact/fraud shifts to the insurer. Aviva Life Insurance suggests increasing the
 period of unilateral repudiation by the insurer to three years and retention of the
 second part of the present s.45 . 5.1.12 The public sector major, LIC, has also suggested retention of the existing
 provision subject to the following changes: 5.1.13 LIC opposes the three year time limit as being "a very short period" and states
 that "if at all this is to be provided we may agree that if policy has been
 continuously in force for a period of 6-8 years without being in question the
 insurer shall be deemed to have waived his right to repudiate the policy on
 whatever ground". LIC also suggests that where a claim is repudiated on the
 ground of fraud, there should be no additional requirement for the insurer to
 establish the nexus between the non-disclosure of the material fact and the
 assessment of the risk. 5.1.14 The suggestion by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry
 (FICCI) is that the present provision be retained. FICCI suggests that the interest
 of the consumer (policy holder) be protected by providing a remedy if there is a
 breach of contract by the insurer. FICCI has nevertheless pointed out that the law
 obtaining in the United Kingdom restricts, by negative definition, the grounds on
 which an insurer can repudiate the policy. Para 2 (b) of the statement of General
 Insurance Practice issued in 1986 in the U.K. reads thus: 5.1.15 FICCI also points out that in the USA, a majority of the States have refused to
 apply the strict rule of disclosure to non-marine risks and therefore a failure by the
 insured to state a material fact, if innocent, does not avoid the contract but only a
 wilful concealment of fact known by the insured to be material to the risk. The
 test in both Canada and USA is that a material misrepresentation sufficient to
 deny a claim cannot be just any misstatement but one that if fully and truthfully
 disclosed would have led to a refusal by the insurer to issue the policy, at least on
 the terms and conditions on which it issued the policy. FICCI finally suggests that
 the test of 'reasonable man' be adopted for determining whether a fact that has
 been suppressed is 'material' or not. The additional safeguards it suggests from
 the point of view of the insured are: The ASI suggests that a policy of life insurance or a rider granted subsequent
 thereto could be called in question "at any time" if the insurer shows that the
 inaccurate or false statement on the basis of which the policy was issued "was on
 a material matter or suppressed facts which it was material to disclose and that it
 was fraudulently made by the policy holder and that the policy holder knew at the
 time of making it that the statement was false or that it suppressed facts which it
 was material to disclose." 5.1.18 The views of the consumer groups are quite the opposite. The Consumer
 Education Research Centre, Ahmedabad has wholeheartedly welcomed the Law
 Commission's proposal. They point out how in the United States even a material
 misstatement would not automatically result in repudiation of the policy but a re-
 working of the sum liable to be paid as if the policy was issued after accounting
 for the changed circumstance. The Consumer Rights Education and Awareness
 Trust, Bangalore also support the Law Commission's proposal but want the
 period to be retained at two years. 5.1.19 In this context it is also necessary to notice an important fact highlighted in the
 response received from the Institute of Insurance Surveyors and Adjusters which
 refers to a sensitivity survey conducted by the General Insurance Corporation of
 India to get a report on customer satisfaction and feedback from policyholders. As
 per this Report "feedback from over 10,000 policy holders indicated that 99.8%
 were by and large satisfied with the services of insurers although there was a 50 common complaint regarding delay in settlement of claims, which was rated
 as high as 65%". Views of the Law Commission
5.1.20 The responses to the proposal contained in the Consultation Paper can be broadly
 stated in the following terms: 5.1.21 The Law Commission views the present exercise of law reform as providing an
 opportunity to balance the competing interests of the insurers on the one hand and
 of the policyholders on the other. First it is proposed to examine the difficulties
 faced by the policyholders or those claiming under them. It cannot be gainsaid
 that the consumer fora and courts are increasingly being petitioned to decide
 disputes involving the legal heirs of a deceased policyholder and the insurers. By
 all accounts, it appears that the rate of settlement of claims by insurers has not
 been satisfactory. Secondly, it is only after a claim is lodged by the family of the 51 deceased policyholder that the insurer makes the effort to find out about the
 misstatement made or fraud played by the policyholder (at the time of taking the
 policy) and by this time several years have elapsed during which the premium has
 also been paid. This is compounded by the fact that the entire premium that has
 been paid also stands forfeited. Thirdly, very often the family members may not at
 all be aware of any such misstatement by the policyholder and have no means to
 prove to the contrary. The insurer on the other hand would be armed with the
 records unearthed by the surveyor appointed by it. There is an unequal battle here
 with the claimant being then forced to go to the courts or consumer fora and wait
 for an uncertain result. Fourthly, there is the issue of delay in disposal of the
 claims by the courts with insurers being known to contest an adverse order up to
 the final court. Finally, a factor that cannot be lost sight of is that there has been
 for several years now a hardselling of life insurance policies by insurers through a
 wide network of agents who go and personally collect the forms, the premium and
 arrange for the requisite medical certificate for issuance of the policy. (This is
 perhaps the flip side of the adage that in India "insurance is not bought but sold")
 The practical reality of the policyholder, in such a situation, of not being informed
 of his duties and liabilities, cannot be lost sight of. It is in this context that the
 question of a deliberate intention on the part of the policyholder to defraud an
 insurer requires to be examined. This is even more significant when one considers
 the present moves on the part of the insurance industry to foray into the untapped
 'rural' sector. 5.1.22 From the point of view of the insurers, that an insurance policy is essentially a
 contract governed by the mandatory principle of true and full disclosure by the
 parties to the contract of all material facts affecting the contract, cannot be
 overemphasised. The proposition that fraud vitiates all contracts is also
 unexceptionable. Nevertheless, there is also the principle of limitation for
 bringing actions both in civil and criminal law. The LIC in its response concedes
 that where a policy has been continuously operative for six to eight years, an
 insurer would be deemed to have waived its right to repudiate the policy on any 52 ground whatsoever. Given the fact that this response comes from the largest
 player in the life insurance business (commanding as of January 2004 over 88%
 of the total premiums and 94% of the total policies), it could be said to reflect a
 realistic position from the point of view of the insurer. The expectation of the role
 of the life insurer has been succinctly stated by the Supreme Court in Asha Goel's
 case (supra) in the following words, which bear repetition: 5.1.25 The question that remains is about the grounds on which an insurer should be
 permitted to repudiate a policy of life insurance any time after the commencement
 of the policy and upto the expiry of five years from that date. After considering
 the various responses received to the proposals in the Consultation Paper, the Law
 Commission finds merit in the need to make a distinction, only in regard to the
 ensuing consequences, between repudiation on the ground of fraud and
 repudiation on the ground of misstatement or suppression of facts that were
 material to the expectancy of the life of the insured. It is unexceptionable as a
 legal proposition that fraud vitiates all actions. A party to a contract that is vitiated
 by fraud can legitimately repudiate it and the party guilty of the fraud can
 legitimately be deprived of all benefits under such contract. Further, since a policy
 of life insurance is essentially a contract between the insurer and the insured, it
 may be useful to refer to s.17 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, which defines
 fraud thus: 5.1.27 Thus, it is open under the present s.45 for the insurer at any time after the expiry
 of two years after the coming into effect of the life insurance policy, to repudiate
 such policy by showing that all the above elements constituting fraud exist. The
 consequence that results upon the insurer so repudiating the policy is that the
 entire amount of premium paid till then stands forfeited and no amount
 whatsoever is payable under the policy. In other words, the claimants under the
 policy so repudiated would get nothing. There would be many instances where the
 suppression of fact or misstatement may not be to the extent of a fraud and
 actually may be an innocent misstatement. In other words, such misstatement,
 made without any intention to deceive, may fall short of fraud. However, the
 present s.45 makes no such distinction and the consequences of repudiation with
 forfeiture of premiums would result even in the case of misstatement or
 suppression of material fact. The practical working of s.45 of the Act as is evident
 in the cases that have come before the courts is that the insurers invariably try and
 prove the existence of the parameters of s.45 and are able to deny the claimants
 even the premium amounts paid till the date of discovery of fraud. This
 compounds the hardship caused to the family of the deceased policyholder. It
 bears repetition that in many an instance, the claimants or the family of the
 deceased policy holder may not even be aware of the policy having been vitiated 56 on the ground of fraud. In other words, the present s.45 is like an all or nothing
 clause. 5.1.28 The recommendation of the Law Commission that an outer limit of time (five
 years from the date of commencement of the policy) beyond which no repudiation
 is permissible be incorporated in s.45 is clearly in favour of the policy holders and
 the claimants and makes a clear departure from the present s.45 . Further, it has
 been recommended that no insurer be permitted to unilaterally repudiate a policy
 of life insurance. In addition to the above, the Law Commission would not want
 the policyholders or their claimants to be deprived of the premiums paid under a
 life policy which is sought to be repudiated on the ground of misstatement or
 suppression of facts, although material to the expectancy of life, but not
 amounting to fraud. Thus, the policyholders or their claimants must have an
 opportunity of showing that the misstatement or suppression of the material fact
 was true to the best of the knowledge and belief of the insured or that there is no
 deliberate intention to suppress the fact or make the misstatement or that such
 misstatement or suppression of a material fact was within the knowledge of the
 insurer or the agent of the insurer. 5.1.29 What really happens in a market where policies are sold and not bought is that an
 agent of an insurance company will approach the prospective policyholder and get
 him to sign the proposal form. The agent will also assure the policyholder that he
 will arrange for the requisite medical certificates to the approved panel of doctors.
 Very often, the proposal form is not filled by the policyholder himself. In the
 peculiar social circumstances in India, where an illiterate policyholder (also
 perhaps even literate ones) can hardly be expected to read the fine print or be
 aware of the consequences of either filling up or not filling up a particular column
 in the proposal form, the knowledge of the agent should be deemed to be the
 knowledge of the insurer. The law should be amended to expressly provide for
 this. 5.1.30 At this juncture, it may help to illustrate the proposition. An agent of an insurance
 company approaches a prospective policyholder, a farmer, and sells him an
 insurance policy by getting him to sign the proposal form as well as make
 payment towards the first premium. The proposer (insured) is addicted to chewing
 tobacco but in the proposal form the relevant column is left blank. The
 information in this regard is a material fact, a fact that is material to the
 assessment of the risk undertaken by the insurer. However, the policyholder in
 this case goes entirely by the agent who assures him that all he has do is to sign
 the proposal form and agree to be examined by a panel doctor. The agent
 organises the medical certificate by the panel doctor and subsequently a life
 insurance policy comes to be issued. The policyholder dies within three years
 from the date of commencement of the policy after suffering from cancer of the
 mouth. The claimants are his family members comprising the widow and two
 children who at no point in time were privy to the transaction between the agent,
 the policyholder and the insurance company. 5.1.31 In the above instance, the insurance company would seek to repudiate the policy
 on the ground that the fact of the policyholder being a tobacco addict was a
 material fact; that it was deliberately suppressed; that such suppression was
 fraudulent and that the policyholder knew that it was material to disclose such
 fact. Normally, in the above circumstances, the insurance company would be able
 to make good its case by showing that the relevant column in the proposal form
 was left blank. The claimants would be hard pressed to show that this was not a
 fraudulent suppression of fact. The Law Commission is aware of the practice in
 the U.S.A of the policy being reworked where, for instance, the insurer discovers
 the material fact subsequent to the issuance of the policy. In the illustration
 narrated above, the policy premium would be reworked as if the life is being
 insured after accounting for the risk and premium amounts recalculated
 accordingly. Thus the repudiation of the policy may not be automatic. It may be
 open, even in India, for an insurer to do so particularly where private insurance 58 companies have made the business competitive. However, that is a matter for the
 consideration of the insurers. 5.1.32 The Law Commission is of the view that in cases like the above, the family or
 claimants of a deceased policyholder should not suffer unduly by having to lose
 even the premium amounts. While they may not be able to recover the amount
 under the policy, they should not stand to lose the premiums collected by the
 insurance company on the policy. Of course, the insurance company will have to
 communicate in writing to the claimants the reasons for which it seeks to
 repudiate the policy of life insurance on the ground of misstatement or
 suppression of a material fact. This also prompts the Law Commission to
 recommend that the knowledge of the agent about the facts concerning the insured
 at the time of submission of the proposal would be deemed to be the knowledge
 of the insurer. The Law Commission is aware that this places an extra burden on
 the insurer to ensure that its agents perform their duties with a sense of
 responsibility so that the 'uberrimae fidei' principle is honoured. The insurer will
 have to rework its contract with the agent and seek to indemnify itself against
 claims brought about as a result of the negligence of the agent. It may also entail
 more serious consequences for the agent but these are matters for consideration of
 the insurer. 5.1.33 The Law Commission accordingly recommends that in case of repudiation of the
 policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on
 the ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till the date of
 repudiation will be liable to be returned to the insured or the legal representatives/
 nominees/ assignees of the insured. 5.1.34 Having said the above, by the Law Commission wishes to reiterate that in a case
 where the insurance company is able to conclusively prove that the suppression or
 misstatement of a material fact was fraudulent, i.e., where the claimants have
 failed to show that such suppression or misstatement was not with an intent to
 deceive, the insurance company would be entitled to deny the claimants even the 59 premium amounts since fraud vitiates the entire contract. To illustrate, there could
 be a situation where a policyholder has undergone a heart bypass surgery one year
 prior to the date of proposal and in the proposal form in response to the question
 "have you undergone any major surgery in the past two years?" he fills up the
 column with 'no'. In such an instance it will be impossible for the claimants to
 argue that there was no intention on the part of the insured to deceive the insurer.
 The insurance company will be justified, in such instance, to repudiate the policy
 on the ground of fraud. However, the insurance company should disclose the
 reasons on the basis of which it has come to such a conclusion and has to
 communicate such reasons to the claimants under the life insurance policy which
 is sought to be repudiated. 5.1.35 The illustrations given are only for distinguishing the two situations, viz., a
 misstatement or suppression of a material fact without an intention to deceive and
 one with an intention to deceive. There may be myriad situations that cannot
 possibly be illustrated. However, the principle for determining the existence of
 fraud needs to be clearly understood. 5.1.36 Accordingly, the Law Commission recommends that the insurer can repudiate a
 policy of life insurance at any time before the expiry of a period of five years
 from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the
 date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy whichever is later
 on the ground of fraud. Where repudiation is on the ground of fraud, the insurer is
 not obliged to pay even the premium amounts to the claimants under the policy.
 The insurer will have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal
 representatives/ nominees/ assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on
 which such decision is based. The Law Commission recommends that the
 statutory provision to give effect to the above change will also set out the
 definition of 'fraud', for which s.17 of the Indian Contract Act can be referred to. 5.1.37 The practice of issuance of life insurance policies for a total period of less than 5
 years may possibly exist but no such details have been brought to the notice of the 60 Law Commission. It is expected that where the entire term of the life insurance
 policy is as short as five years or less, the insurance company would be doubly
 careful to ensure that the antecedents of the policyholder are thoroughly checked. 5.1.38 The above approach, it is expected, sufficiently balances the interests of both the
 policyholders as well as the insurers. It also accounts for the apprehension
 expressed by the insurer that any dilution in the existing provision will encourage
 fraudulent practices. It requires greater degree of diligence on the part of both the
 insurers as well as policyholders. Final recommendations in regard to s.45 5 .1.39 To summarise the final recommendations of the Law Commission in regard to
 s.45: The insurer will have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal
 representatives/ nominees/ assignees of the insured the grounds and
 materials on which such decision is based. The claimants will in such
 instance not be entitled to either the policy amount or the premium
 amounts. (iii) The insurer can repudiate a policy of life insurance at any time before the
 expiry of a period of five years from the date of the policy or the date of
 commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of
 the rider to the policy whichever is later on the ground that the insured had
 made a misstatement of or suppressed a material fact, i.e., a fact material
 to the assessment of the risk, either in the proposal form or any other
 document on the basis of which the life insurance policy was issued or
 revived or a rider issued to it. While such repudiation will result in the
 claimants forfeiting the policy amount it will not entail their forfeiting the
 premium amounts collected on the policy. Thus in case of repudiation of
 the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact,
 and not on the ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till
 the date of repudiation will be liable to be returned to the insured or the
 legal representatives/ nominees/ assignees of the insured. (iv) The misstatement of or suppression of fact will not be considered material
 unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer. The
 onus is on the insurer to show that had the insurer been aware of the said
 fact no life insurance policy would have been issued to the insured. (v) No repudiation of the policy to be permitted on the ground of fraud where
 the insured can prove that the suppression or misstatement of the material
 fact made was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there
 was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement
 of or suppression of a material fact was within the knowledge of the
 insurer or the agent of the insurer. (vi) A person who solicits and negotiates a contract of insurance should be
 deemed for the purpose of the formation of the contract, to be the agent of
 the insurers, and that the knowledge of such person should be deemed to
 be the knowledge of the insurers. (vii) The insurer will have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal
 representatives/ nominees/ assignees of the insured the grounds and
 materials on which the decision to repudiate a policy on the ground of
 misstatement or suppression of a material fact is based. Suggested amendment of s.45 5 .1.40 Accordingly it is recommended that S.45 be amended as follows: Explanation II: Mere silence as to facts likely to affect the
 assessment of the risk by the insurer is not fraud, unless the
 circumstances of the case are such that, regard being had to them, 63 it is the duty of the insured or his agent, keeping silence to speak,
 or unless his silence is, in itself, equivalent to speech. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2)
 hereinabove, no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on
 the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the misstatement
 of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his
 knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate intention to
 suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of a
 material fact was within the knowledge of the insurer or the agent
 of the insurer. Explanation: A person who solicits and negotiates a contract of
 insurance should be deemed for the purpose of the formation of the
 contract, to be the agent of the insurer, and that the knowledge of
 such person should be deemed to be the knowledge of the insurer. (4) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time
 within five years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date
 of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the
 date of the rider to the policy whichever is later on the ground that
 any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the expectancy
 of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or
 other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or
 revived or rider issued

 Provided that the insurer will have to communicate in writing to
 the insured or the legal representatives/nominees/assignees of the
 insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to
 repudiate the policy of life insurance is based. Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the
 ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not
 on the ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till
 the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal
 representatives/ nominees/ assignees of the insured within a period
 of ninety days from the date of such repudiation. Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-section, the misstatement
 of or suppression of fact will not be considered material unless it
 has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer; the onus
 is on the insurer to show that had the insurer been aware of the said
 fact no life insurance policy would have been issued to the insured. (5) Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for
 proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy
 shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms
 of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the
 life insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal. CHAPTER VI

 ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER

 Existing Law

6.1.1 S.38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 provides for assignment and transfer of insurance
 policies. S.38 provides for the transfer or assignment of a policy of life insurance
 by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by separate instrument signed by the
 transferor/assignor or by any authorized agent and attested by one witness setting
 forth the fact of transferring assignment. The transfer/ assignment can be made in
 favour of the insurer also but shall not confer upon the transferee or assignee or
 his legal representative any right to sue for the amount secured under such policy
 until a notice in writing of the transfer has been delivered both by the transferor
 and transferee to the insurer. There can be more than one transfer/ assignment as
 per sub-section (3) of this section. In such cases the priority of claims shall be
 governed in the order in which notices have been delivered. 6.1.2 This section deals with both absolute and conditional assignments, the former
 transferring to the assignee all rights, title and interest which the assignor has in
 the policy without any defeasance clause, and the latter being a conditional
 assignment as contemplated under sub-section (7) which creates an immediate
 vested interest in the assignee but which is liable to be divested on the happening
 of events specified in the assignment. Proposals in the Consultation Paper
6.1.3 In the Consultation Paper it was pointed out that there are certain anomalies in the
 working of sub-section (5) and sub-section (7) of s.38 . A question was posed
 whether a conditional assignee is entitled to obtain a loan under, or surrender, the
 policy without the concurrence of the insured. It was pointed out that if the said
 question was answered in the affirmative, the conditional assignment would stand
 converted into an absolute assignment and defeat the object of the former. To 66 illustrate, a policyholder (A) obtains a loan from a financier (B) upon assignment
 of the policy in favour of B. The assignment is on condition that upon repayment
 of the loan, B will reassign the policy to A. Even before A can repay the loan to
 B, B borrows a loan from C by assigning the policy in favour of C. This later
 assignment by B in favour of C renders the assignment by A in favour of B
 unconditional and defeats the condition attached to that assignment. 6.1.4 While any transfer is subject to the terms and conditions specified in the
 instrument of transfer, the specific provisions in sub-section (5) of s.38 may mean
 either or both of the following: First, under sub-section (7), the assignor may
 become entitled to the policy money if the assignment becomes inoperative (like
 when it does when the assignor repays the loan to the assignee); second, the
 insurer may not recognize the assignee as the only person entitled to benefit under
 the policy if the terms of assignment expressly or by implication do not confer on
 him any particular right or benefit and treat the insured for such entitlement. For
 instance, if the insured reserves the right to receive the policy money on maturity,
 the assignee cannot exercise the right to surrender. Thirdly, sub-section (7)
 recognises as valid an assignment in favour of a person on condition that "the
 interest shall pass to some other person on the happening of a specified event
 during the life time of the person whose life is insured". To illustrate, A assigns
 his life insurance policy in favour of B in consideration of B lending A a certain
 sum of money. One condition stipulated in the assignment is that in the event of
 the death of A, the amount payable under the policy would pass on to the wife and
 children of A. Such an assignment is recognised by sub-section (7) as valid.
 Likewise an assignment by A in favour of his own survivors or any number of
 persons is also valid. The question that arises is what is the situation vis-à-vis B in
 such an event. Suppose B pre-deceases A, can the survivors of B claim that they
 now become the assignees? The section is not clear on this. 6.1.5 The Consultation Paper pointed out that there was another difficulty if an
 assignment is duly executed but no notice has been delivered to the insurer under
 sub-section (2). The assignment is not invalid but the assignee will not have the 67 right to sue the insurer. It was accordingly suggested that, the provisions of sub-
 sections (5) and (7) need reconsideration and revision so as to remove anomalies.
 However, a suggestion has been made that sub-section (7) should be dropped.
 This may, however, attract the application of s.130 of the Transfer of Property Act
 unless a proviso is made to exclude its application. Presently, sub-section (2) of
 s.130 which stipulates that the transferee of an actionable claim may sue in his
 own name without obtaining the consent of the transferor has an exception to the
 effect that the said provision will not affect the provision of s.38 of the Insurance
 Act, 1938. The illustration under s.130 reads thus: S.132 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 stipulates that "the transferee of an
 actionable claim shall take it subject to all the liabilities and equities and to which
 the transferor was subject in respect thereof at the date of the transfer." In other
 words, notwithstanding ss.130 and 132 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, the
 assignment of the insurance policy will not be effective against the insurance
 company till it has notice of the assignment in terms of s.38 of the Act. If s.38 (7) of the Act is to be deleted as suggested, then the applicability s.130 of the
 Transfer of Property Act will also have to be excluded. 6.1.6 The Act does not provide for partial assignment of policies required especially in
 case of assignments for collateral security for loans, where the sum assured is
 more than the amount of loan. It was, therefore, suggested that a new sub-section
 may be inserted to provide for partial assignment of policies with the rider that the
 original assignor is not allowed to further assign his residual rights to the third
 party with a view to prevent any clash of interest of several assignees at the time
 of making the claim. 6.1.7 The Consultation Paper noted that provisions of this section are applicable only to
 life insurance policies. It was accordingly suggested that the application of this
 provision be extended to all personal lines of non-life insurance business as well. 6.1.8 Finally a suggestion was made in regard to the fee to be charged for
 acknowledgment of the notice of the transfer of assignment. Since the fee of one
 rupee as presently indicated in s.38 (4) was wholly inadequate, it was suggested
 that the words 'one rupee' may be replaced by the words 'not exceeding an
 amount prescribed by the Authority in the Regulations'. Response to the Proposal in the Consultation Paper
6.1.9 By and large the responses received in relation to the suggestions contained in the
 Consultation Paper have been positive. The response of FICCI has been that s.38 sub-section (7) should be retained. LIC and Aviva Life Insurance Company India
 (P) Ltd. have also made a similar suggestion. 6.1.10 Om Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Ltd., has recommended that a clear
 distinction be drawn between absolute and conditional assignment. They also
 suggested that the absolute assignee should step into the shoes of the policyholder
 and be entitled to deal with the policy in any manner, including obtaining a loan,
 without requiring the consent of the original policyholder. Conversely, the
 conditional assignee should be barred from dealing with the policy without the
 consent of the original policyholder. As regards notice of assignment not being
 given to the insurer, it has been suggested that in such a case the insurer should be
 permitted to proceed on the basis that no assignment has been made. 6.1.11 The advocate M.K.P. Kannan from Madurai suggests that partial assignment of an
 insurance policy should be permitted with a stipulation that the insured will not
 further assign the residual right in the policy. 6.1.12 The National Insurance Academy, Pune (NIA) points out that since there does not
 appear to be any difference between the two terms 'transfer' and 'assignment', the
 word 'transfer' may be deleted. Further the term 'assignment' may be defined to 69 mean "transfer of right, interest and title under the policy'. The NIA has agreed to
 the suggestion made in the Consultation Paper that the provisions of this section
 be extended to all personal lines of non-life insurance business. 6.1.13 The HDFC Standard Life Insurance Company Ltd. points out that s.38 (7) requires to be amended to make it clear that the conditional assignee does not
 have the same legal position as the absolute assignee. The present provision in
 s.38 (7) envisages two eventualities: (i) the assignee predeceasing the insured; and ii) the insured surviving the term of the policy. To illustrate, policyholder A
 assigns a life insurance policy (for a term of 20 years) in favour of B. The
 stipulation is that if B pre-deceases A, the benefit under the policy will revert to
 A. Secondly, if A survives even after the period of the policy is over, then also the
 benefit under the policy would revert to A. It has been suggested this position be
 made explicit while redrafting s.38 (7) . As regards partial assignment, it has been
 suggested that the change as proposed in the Consultation Paper may not be
 necessary at all because in any event it is not intended to permit the original
 assignor (insured) to further assign the residual rights. 6.1.14 The IRDA has during its interactions with the Commission expressed concern
 about the actual working of the provision relating to assignment and transfers of
 policies. It appears that there could be certain unscrupulous elements running a
 racket whereby even lapsed life insurance policies are purchased for a given price
 and then revived on the expectancy of receiving the sum on maturity of the
 policy. However, it is feared that since the amount becomes payable upon the
 death of the policyholder, it may not encourage such purchasers of policies to go
 to any length to ensure that the amount becomes payable. Some safeguards will
 have to be built into the provision to prevent the misuse of this facility. Views of the Law Commission
6.1.15 The Law Commission after considering the matter and the responses received is
 of the view that sub-section (7) of s.38 should be retained, with some
 modification for the purpose of greater clarity. 6.1.16 The Commission also accepts the suggestion that a clear distinction be made
 between absolute assignment and conditional assignment since this is leading to
 some confusion while operationalising the scheme of assignment and transfer.
 There is a need to clearly spell out the contingencies under which an assignment
 or transfer would be treated as a conditional one. It is proposed to retain both
 terminologies, viz., assignment and transfer and use them in the alternative to
 enable greater flexibility in the working of these provisions. It is also proposed
 that a provision be inserted for partial assignment conditional upon restricting
 further assignments of the residual rights. This would be by a necessary
 clarification. Further, the provision should be appropriately amended to extend its
 applicability to all personal lines of non-life insurance business as well. 6.1.17 The Commission finds considerable merit in the apprehension expressed by the
 IRDA regarding misuse of the facility of assignment and transfer and accordingly
 proposes to build in certain safeguards like disclosure of reasons for the
 assignment, the antecedents of the assignee, the exact terms on which the
 assignment is being made and an obligation upon the insurer to get the credentials
 of the assignee verified at the cost of the insured. If the insurer is not satisfied that
 the assignment is bonafide, there would be an option to decline to register the
 assignment or transfer upon reasons in writing to be communicated to the
 policyholder subject to such decision being challenged by way of petition before
 the Grievance Redressal Authority. Where there is a dispute between assignees as
 to which of the assignments is prior in point of time for the purposes of a claim,
 the dispute should be adjudicated by the GRA. Final recommendations of the Law Commission in regard to s.38 6 .1.18 The final recommendations of the Law Commission in regard to s.38 may be
 summarised as under: Suggested amendment of s.38 6 .1.19 Accordingly the Law Commission recommends that s.38 be recast as under: Provided that an insurer may decline to act upon such endorsement where
 it has sufficient reason to believe that such transfer or assignment is not
 bonafide or is not in the interests of the policyholder or in public interest. Provided further that the insurer will record in writing such reasons for
 refusal to act upon the endorsement and communicate the same to the
 policyholder not later than 30 days from the date of the policyholder
 giving notice of such transfer or assignment. Provided further that any person aggrieved by the decision of an insurer to
 decline to act upon such transfer or assignment may within a period of not
 more than 30 days from the date of receipt of the communication from the
 insurer containing reasons for such refusal, prefer a claim to the Grievance
 Redressal Authority constituted under section __. (2) Subject to the provisions in sub-section (1), the transfer or assignment
 shall be complete and effectual upon the execution of such endorsement or
 instrument duly attested but except where the transfer or assignment is in
 favour of the insurer shall not be operative as against an insurer and shall
 not confer upon the transferee or assignee, or his legal representative, any
 right to sue for the amount of such policy or the moneys secured thereby
 until a notice in writing of the transfer or assignment and either the said
 endorsement or instrument itself or a copy thereof certified to be correct
 by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorized agents have been
 delivered to the insurer: Provided that if any dispute as to priority of payment arises as between
 assignees, the dispute will be referred to the Grievance Redressal
 Authority. (4) Upon the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (2), the insurer
 shall record the fact of such transfer or assignment together with the date
 thereof and the name of the transferee or the assignee and shall, on the
 request of the person by whom the notice was given, or of the transferee or
 assignee, on payment of such fee as may be specified by regulations, grant
 a written acknowledgement of the receipt of such notice; and any such
 acknowledgement shall be conclusive evidence against the insurer that he
 has duly received the notice to which such acknowledgment relates. (5) Subject to the terms and conditions of the transfer or assignment, the
 insurer shall, from the date of the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-
 section (2), recognise the transferee or assignee named in the notice as the
 absolute transferee or assignee entitled to benefit under the policy, and
 such person shall be subject to all liabilities and equities to which the
 transferor or assignor was subject at the date of the transfer or assignment
 and may institute any proceedings in relation to the policy, obtain a loan
 under the policy or surrender the policy without obtaining the consent of
 the transferor or assignor or making him a party to such proceedings. Explanation. Except where the endorsement referred to in sub-section (1)
 expressly indicates that the assignment or transfer is conditional in terms
 of sub-section (7) hereunder, every assignment or transfer will be deemed
 to be an absolute assignment or transfer and the assignee or transferee as
 the case may be will be deemed to the absolute assignee or transferee
 respectively. (6) Any rights and remedies of an assignee or transferee of a policy of life
 insurance under an assignment or transfer effected prior to the
 commencement of this Act shall not be affected by the provisions of this
 section. (7) Notwithstanding any law or custom having the force of law to the
 contrary, an assignment in favour of a person made upon the condition
 that 74 (a) the proceeds under the policy will become payable to the
 policyholder or the nominee or nominees in the event of
 either the assignee/ transferee predeceasing the insured; or (b) the insured surviving the term of the policy; shall be valid. Provided that a conditional assignee shall not be entitled to obtain a loan
 on the policy or surrender a policy. (8) In the case of the partial assignment or transfer of a policy of insurance under
 sub-section (1), the liability of the insurer shall be limited to the amount
 secured by partial assignment or transfer and such policyholder shall not be
 entitled to further assign or transfer the residual amount payable under the
 same policy. CHAPTER VII

 NOMINATION

7.1.1 S.39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 provides that the holder of a policy of life
 insurance may nominate one or more persons to whom the money secured by the
 policy shall be paid in the event of the death of the policyholder. A nomination
 shall get automatically cancelled as per s.39 (4) where a transfer or assignment of
 the policy has been made in terms of s.38 of the Act. As per the proviso to s.39
 (4) , where an assignment is made in favour of the insurer itself in consideration
 for a loan advanced by the insurer to the policyholder, the nomination will not be
 cancelled but the rights of the nominee will be effected only to the extent of the
 insurer's interest in the policy. Where the loan is repaid and the policy is
 reassigned to the policyholder, the nomination will remain valid. To illustrate,
 policyholder A is entitled to an amount of Rs.2 lakhs upon maturity of his life
 insurance policy. A borrows Rs.50,000/- from the insurance company and assigns
 the policy in its favour. In the event of A's death without repayment of the loan
 amount, the insurance company can retain only such amount as is payable to it
 and A's nominees are entitled to receive the balance amount payable under the
 policy. The Consultation Paper has pointed out that this provision is unclear as to
 the position where the assignee is not an insurer. The question posed was whether
 in such an event, the prepayment of the loan advanced by the assignee would
 automatically revive the nomination made by the policyholder. 7.1.2 Another area, which required clarification, was that of a beneficial nominee as
 distinguished from a collector nominee. Under s.38 (6) where a nominee survives
 the insured person, the policy money would be payable to such nominee survivor.
 The question then arises whether this payment to the nominee is to the exclusion
 of the legal representatives and heirs or even creditors who may have a legitimate
 claim against the estate of the deceased of which the money payable on maturity
 of the life insurance policy forms part. Law Commission's earlier recommendation
7.1.3 The Consultation Paper referred extensively to the earlier recommendations made
 by the Law Commission in its 82nd Report on Effect of nomination under s.39 ,
 Insurance Act, 1938 (1980). The Law Commission had in the said Report noted
 that a policyholder cannot confer on any nominee any right higher than what he
 himself has. The Commission recommended the insertion of certain provisions in
 s.39 to the effect that "where the holder of a policy of life insurance on his own
 life nominates his parents, or his spouse, or his children, or his spouse and
 children, or any of them, the nominee or nominees shall be beneficially entitled to
 the amount payable by the insurer to him or them under sub-section (6) unless it is
 proved that the holder of the policy, having regard to the nature of his title to the
 policy, could not have conferred any such beneficial title on the nominee". The
 other recommendation was that where the nominee survives the policyholder but
 dies before the amount is paid, such amount "shall be payable to the heirs or legal
 representatives of the nominee or nominees or the holder of a succession
 certificate, as the case may be, and they shall be beneficially entitled to such
 amount". 7.1.4 The Government did not act upon the aforementioned recommendation. Meanwhile, in 1984, the Supreme Court in Sarbati Devi v. Usha Devi AIR 1984
 SC 346 held that the provisions of s.39 could not alter the position of succession
 under the law. It was clarified that a mere nomination made under s.39 does not
 have the effect of conferring on the nominee any beneficial interest in the amount
 payable under the policy on the death of the assured. The court further observed
 that the nominee acquires no interest in the policy during the life time of the
 policy holder, therefore, after the death of the policy holder, the amount under the
 policy becomes payable to his legal heirs, the nominee is only the authorized
 person to collect the payment so that insurer gets a valid discharge of its liability
 under the policy. 7.1.5 The decision in Sarbati Devi prompted the Law Commission to modify its earlier
 view while dealing with nomination in regard to Provident Fund. In its 137th 77 Report on the "Need for creating office of Ombudsman and for evolving
 legislative administrative measures inter alia to relieve hardships caused by
 inordinate delays in settling Provident Fund claims of beneficiaries" (1990), the
 Commission recommended that a statutory provision be made to the effect that
 the amount payable will vest in the nominee who will be called the 'beneficiary
 nominee' unless the policyholder names some person as a 'collector nominee' for
 the purpose of collecting the amount on behalf of the legal representatives of the
 deceased policyholder. In other words, an option would be available to the
 policyholder to express in clear terms whether the nominee concerned is a
 beneficial nominee or a collector nominee. 7.1.6 In the Consultation Paper, the above recommendation made in the 137th Report
 was reiterated. An alternative was to confer the absolute ownership of the policy
 money on the nominee to bring it on par with the status of a nominee under
 s.45ZA of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. It was further suggested in the
 Consultation Paper that a proviso may be added that where a policyholder dies
 after the maturity of the policy but before he can be paid the proceeds thereunder
 the nomination made would continue to be effectual for receiving the maturity
 amount on the policy. Responses to the Consultation Paper
7.1.7 As far as FICCI is concerned, they have made a suggestion that "the proposed
 amendment to s.39 should retain the provision of nomination for unassigned
 portion of the policy." Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. Ltd., has pointed out that it is
 desirable to amend s.39 to bring it on par with that under s.45ZA of the Banking
 Regulation Act, 1949 so that the insurer gets a valid discharge for the policy
 monies upon payment to the nominee without the insurer getting embroiled in a
 litigation between the legal heirs of the policyholder. They have however pointed
 out that there is a difference between nomination under s.39 and that under
 s.45ZA of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 in as much as the right under a life
 insurance contract is the right to a debt, which is more in the nature of an
 actionable claim. Thus, the nominee's right is only to receive the policy monies 78 subject to all liabilities and equities to which the policyholder himself was
 subject. 7.1.8 The Punjab State Law Commission has communicated its support to bringing s.39 on par with s.45ZA of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 7.1.9 Om Kotak points out that there is a need for clarification in regard to the concept
 of 'absolute nominee'. They also suggest that there should be a full discharge of
 the insurer once the amount is paid to the nominee. The National Insurance
 Academy has suggested that the law be made clear that a nominee does not have
 ownership rights to money. This suggestion has been concurred with by the
 HDFC. 7.1.10 The Government of West Bengal has suggested that the provision be amended to
 bring out the distinction between collector nominee and beneficial nominee. 7.1.11 Life Insurance Corporation of India has recommended that s.39 be retained as it
 is. The General Insurers Public Sector Association has agreed to the proposal of
 the Law Commission in its Consultation Paper. The Law Commission's views
7.1.12 There appears to be a consensus of sorts on the need for drawing a clear
 distinction between a beneficial nominee and a collector nominee. It is not
 possible to agree to the suggestion made by some of the insurers that in all cases
 the payment to the nominee would tantamount to a full discharge of the insurer's
 liability under the policy and that unless the contrary is expressed, the nominee
 would be the beneficial nominee. Although it is true that this is the law in USA,
 Canada and South Africa, the social realities of our country where the death of a
 sole breadwinner of the family immediately throws the remaining family into
 hardship cannot be lost sight of. To deny, in such instance, the right of the legal
 representatives to the policy amount on the basis that the nominee is a different
 person seems harsh. On the other hand, what appears reasonable is to give an
 option to the policyholder to clearly express whether the nominee will collect the 79 money on behalf of the legal representatives (in other words such nominee will be
 the collector nominee) or whether the nominee will be the absolute owner of the
 monies in which case such nominee will be the beneficial nominee. Public interest
 and the peculiar social realities in India cannot permit the adoption of the
 procedures followed in Canada, USA or South Africa. The Commission is not
 agreeable to the suggestion that a provision similar to s.45 ZA as in the Banking
 Regulation Act, 1949 should be adopted. 7.1.13 The suggestion that a proviso be added to make the nomination effectual for the
 nominee to receive the policy money in case the policyholder dies after the
 maturity of the policy but before it can be encashed, has also been welcomed by
 the responses, and is hereby recommended. Final recommendations of the Law Commission in regard to s.39 7 .1.14 After considering all the responses and reexamining the entire issue, the final
 recommendations of the Law Commission regard to s.39 may be summarised as
 under: Suggested amendment of s.39 7 .1.15 To give effect to the above recommendations, the Law Commission is of the view
 that s.39 be recast as follows: Provided where the policyholder fails to indicate whether the person being
 nominated is a beneficiary nominee or a collector nominee it will be
 deemed that the person nominated is a beneficiary nominee. Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-section the expression
 'beneficiary nominee' means a nominee who is entitled to receive the
 entire proceeds payable under a policy of insurance subject to other
 provisions of this Act and the expression 'collector nominee' means a
 nominee other than a beneficiary nominee. (12) The collector nominee shall make payment the benefits arising out of
 policy to the beneficiary nominee or his legal heirs or representative in
 accordance with the regulations made by the Authority. (13) Where a policyholder dies after the maturity of the policy but the proceeds
 and benefit of his policy has not been made to him because of his death, in
 such a case, his nominee shall be entitled to the proceeds and benefit of his
 policy. (14) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any policy of life
 insurance to which s.6 of the Married Women's Property Act, 1874,
 applies or has at any time applied: 8.1.1 Paras 8.8 and 8.9 of the Consultation Paper (Appendix I to this Report) discussed
 the proposed changes to the provisions of the Act that prescribed penalties and
 other provisions in which changes were called for. The responses received have
 more or less welcomed the proposals. For want of specific response from the
 Central Government and the IRDA, the Law Commission, however, is not
 expressing any view on the proposal in the Consultation Paper in regard to the
 Insurance Councils (s.64C, powers of the Executive Committee (s.64I), and
 powers of the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Councils to hold
 examination for insurance agents (s.64UI). Likewise, no recommendation is being
 made on the proposal that a trade union be permitted to carry on insurance
 business. Final recommendation of the Law Commission in regard to penalties and other
 provisions
8.1.2 The final recommendation of the Law Commission in regard to the other
 proposals in the Consultation Paper concerning penalties and certain other
 provisions are as under: sections (3) and (4), reference to the Companies Act, 1913 may be
 substituted by the Companies Act 1956. In sub-section (4), the words 's.12
 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ' be substituted by 's.15 of the Companies Act, 1956 ' and the words 'ss.15 and 16' be replaced by 's.17'. (vi) In relation to ss.52A to 52G which deal with the management by an
 administrator, the provisions be amended to provide that if the IRDA after
 giving an opportunity to the insurer and after taking into consideration the
 interest of policy holders, is of the opinion that it is necessary and proper
 to appoint an administrator to manage the affairs of the insurer carrying on
 life insurance business, the IRDA may, by an order, do so. The
 administrator shall receive such remuneration as the IRDA may direct.
 The IRDA may appoint some other person as an administrator if the one
 appointed earlier is not able to manage the affairs of the insurer. Sub-
 sections (1), (2) and (3) of s.52A be amended to give effect to the
 aforesaid recommendations. (vii) S.52A be amended to provide for the period for which an administrator
 will initially be appointed. It may be appropriate if the limit in this regard
 is provided in the statute subject to the proposed provisions of s.52D .
 Since s.52BB (9) which vests in the administrator powers of the civil
 court, s.52A be amended to indicate that the administrator so appointed
 should be qualified and competent to exercise such powers. (viii) S.52BB (2) be amended to provide that the appeal against the order of the
 Administrator will lie to the IRDA. (ix) S.52D dealing with termination of appointment of administrator be
 amended to confer the power of cancellation of the order of appointment
 on the IRDA. (x) The punishment by way of fine for withholding documents of property
 from the Administrator under s.52F be enhanced to Rs.5,000/-. (xi) The protection of action taken in good faith, as provided for in s.52G , be
 extended to the officers of the IRDA. (xii) In light of the above amendments, s.52E be amended to substitute the
 word "Central Government" with 'IRDA'. (xiii) Ss.52H to 52N be deleted in view of the changed policy whereby private
 players have been permitted to carry on insurance business. (xiv) The words and digits "or s.98" occurring in s.59 relating to return of
 deposits, be omitted. (xv) In view of the express provision that no insurer other than an Indian
 insurance company shall begin to carry on any class of insurance business
 in India, the provisions relating to external companies, ss.62 to 64, be
 repealed. (xvi) S.64UL be amended to substitute the word "Central Government" by
 "IRDA". (xvii) S.113 (1) relating to acquisition of surrender values be amended to
 indicate that the IRDA may from time to time notify the minimum amount
 of the paid up value and annuity. *** 86 CHAPTER IX

 OTHER TOPICS IN THE CONSULTATION PAPER ON WHICH THE LAW
 COMMISSION DOES NOT PROPOSE TO MAKE ANY
 RECOMMENDATION AT THIS STAGE

9.1.1 In the Consultation Paper, a large number of grounds of revision had been
 indicated. However, the recommendation marked the following issues have been
 further elaborated upon in the consultation exercise and final recommendations
 have been made hereinabove: 9.1.4 S.64 UM (1 A) of the Act requires every surveyor and loss assessor to comply
 with the code of conduct and other professional requirements as may be specified
 by regulations made by the IRDA. Consequent to this provision, the IRDA has
 framed regulations prescribing minimum qualifications for licencing of surveyors
 and loss assessors. The Consultation Paper had proposed that there be in
 expression provision in regard to the functions to be performed by surveyors and
 loss assessors strictly in accordance with the code of conduct laid down in the
 regulations of the IRDA. The power to settle claims be exercised by an
 Adjudicating Officer to be appointed by the IRDA. It was further proposed that
 appointment and payment to surveyors/loss assessors should be on rotation and
 controlled by IRDA. Finally, it was proposed that the requirement of a written test
 for issuing licence to any person to act as a surveyor be done away with because
 the new trainees are well-qualified technical graduates. Response to the proposal
9.1.5 Although a wide range of the responses have been received to the above proposal
 contained in the Consultation Paper, the most exhaustive response has been from
 the Institute of Insurance Surveyors and Adjusters (IISA). The principal
 suggestion is that "the Act should spell out only the Policy Framework. All
 regulatory issues should be within the purview of the Regulator. All operational
 and administrative issues should fall under the purview of the self-regulating
 Chartered Institute". Consequently, the IISA has suggested that the system of
 licencing of surveyors should be abolished. They would like to have a system of
 issuance of certificate of practice by a Chartered Institute of Insurance Surveyors 88 and Loss Adjusters of India. The IISA suggests that where the claim is not less
 than Rs.20,000/-, the holding of such certificate should be mandatory before an
 insurer can entrust the work of survey or loss assessment to such surveyor/ loss
 assessor. Another important suggestion of the IISA is that there should be a
 provision for appointing joint surveyor/ loss assessor depending on the
 requirement. 9.1.6 While the Law Commission appreciates the detailed suggestions given by the
 IISA, it realises that the issue involves a policy decision to be taken. For instance,
 the decision to abolish the system of licencing and to constitute a Chartered
 Institute for loss assessors has to be taken at a policy level. The Law Commission
 does not consider such decisions to be within the scope of its present reference.
 Therefore, the Law Commission is not in a position to accept the suggestion of
 the IISA in this regard. 9.1.7 The response of the General Insurers' (Public Sector) Association of India has
 been for a retention of the existing provisions where the appointment of surveyors
 is within the domain of the insurer rather than give any further powers to the
 IRDA. It is suggested that the decision to settle a claim after a report is called for
 from a second surveyor, should be left to the GRA. The response of the General
 Insurance Company is that there should be no interference by the regulator after a
 licence is issued to a surveyor. It suggests that the IISA may also be consulted in
 the matter of appointment of surveyors. Likewise, United India Insurance
 Company also opposes a change in the provisions to give any greater role to the
 IRDA. 9.1.8 FICCI's suggestion is that there should be no practice of licencing of surveyors
 and that the IRDA should be empowered to prescribe the qualifications. It has
 suggested that there should be an institute of surveyors approved by the IRDA.
 Also, it has suggested that the monetary limit for mandating survey should done
 away with and that the IRDA should be empowered to prescribe the class of 89 business and monetary limits for which survey by qualified surveyors is made
 mandatory. Law Commission's response
9.1.9 The Law Commission appreciates the concerns expressed by the respondents to
 the proposals made in regard to surveyors and loss assessors. However, it appears
 that there is no agreement as such on whether the system of licencing should be
 continued or abolished and whether there should be a greater role for the IRDA in
 this regard. Moreover, this is essentially a policy decision is not within the scope
 be taken by the Law Commission. 9.1.10 The Law Commission does not therefore consider it appropriate to make any
 recommendations in regard to the provisions concerning surveyors and loss
 assessors. Provisions relating to investments
9.1.11 The Consultation Paper had sought to make suggestions in regard to the
 provisions concerning investments, loans and management. This in turn entailed
 an understanding of what should be designated as 'approved securities' for the
 purposes of investment of funds by the insurers, what should be the "Solvency
 Margin" to be maintained by insurers. The relevant provisions of the Insurance
 Act, 1938 are ss.27 , 27A and 27B and s.64 VA. Although, the Commission has
 received a variety of responses to the proposals made in the Consultation Paper,
 there has been no response from either the Central Government or the IRDA. We
 should have received a more detailed and adequate response to enable the
 Commission to make recommendation. Provisions relating to tariffs
9.1.12 S.64 UA - 64ULA of the Insurance Act, 1938 contained provisions that deal with
 the Tariff Advisory Committee (TAC) including its composition and powers. The
 Consultation Paper had sought to make detailed proposals in this regard. 9.1.13 There has been no response received either from the Central Government or the
 IRDA to these proposals. FICCI has categorically stated that "an administered 90 tariff regime is antithesis of liberalisation and market must move to a detariffed
 regime". The private insurance companies would also favour a de-tariffed regime.
 In the context of liberalisation, insurance companies demand freedom to unburden
 themselves of loss making portfolios like motor vehicle insurance, for instance.
 On the other hand, the countervailing liability as presently found in the Insurance
 Act, 1938 is the obligation of insurers to rural and social sectors. These issues
 again throw up policy considerations. The questions that arise are: 9.1.16 In response to the above proposal, FICCI has suggested that where there is a
 transfer from the shareholder's funds to the policyholders fund for meeting the
 cost of payment of new bonus to policyholders, such amount should not be
 allowed to be transferred back to the shareholder's fund at any time. Further,
 FICCI would like a distinction to be drawn between the temporary and permanent
 deficit in the policyholder's funds. The National Insurance Academy has also
 submitted a very detailed response. At the outset, the NIA states that "during all
 these years, this provision has conformed to the requirements of the market and
 hence a review at this stage is not called for." However, according to NIA, if
 money is sought to be transferred from the shareholder's funds to the
 policyholder's funds on account of deficit arising out of 'new business strain',
 several safeguards will have to be built in. NIA has accordingly suggested a draft
 amended s.49 . 9.1.17 The Subedar Committee Report commissioned by the Actuarial Society of India
 has also dealt with this issue extensively. Importantly, that Report states that as
 regards this issue "convergence of views as between the Industry, Regulator and
 actuarial profession is key to an acceptable and sustainable solution". Ultimately,
 the Report has suggested that there is a need for a wider debate on the issue. 9.1.18 The Law Commission of India is of the view that the specific question of the use
 of shareholder's funds and policyholder's funds, and transfer from the former to
 the latter, requires deliberations both within the industry as well as between the
 industry and the government. The IRDA would also have to play a pro-active role
 in helping evolve a consensus on the issue. 9.1.19 As at present, the Law Commission does not have the benefit of the views of
 either the Government or the IRDA on this issue. Also, there does not appear to 92 be any agreed response from within the industry as well. In these circumstances,
 the Law Commission is not suggesting any changes in s.49 for the present. Extent of foreign shareholding
9.1.20 One issue that repeatedly surfaced during discussions with the industry was
 whether the law should be amended to permit greater foreign equity participation
 than the present limit of 26%. There were also questions raised about permitting
 insurance companies to have branches outside of India and to conduct business
 outside India. The Law Commission does not have the benefit of the views of the
 Government or the IRDA on these matters. In the Law Commission's perception
 these are matters on which a policy decision will have to be taken by the
 Government in consultation with the industry and the IRDA. The Law
 Commission is not making any research in this matter. *** 93 CHAPTER X

 SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS

10.1.1 To summarise the recommendations in this Report, (i) The complete final list of changed definitions as recommended by the Law
 Commission of India is set out in a separate table and appended to this
 Report as Appendix-II. The said recommendations cover amendments to
 ss.2 (9), 2C, 4, 6A(1), 6A(10), 6B, 6C, 7(1), 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 28,
 28A, 29, 31, 31B, 32A, 32B, 32C, 35, 37A, 40, 40A, 40B, 40C, 43, 44,
 48A, 50, 51, 52BB, 52D, 52E, 53, 58 and 64UL of the Insurance Act,
 1938 [para 2.1.3] (ii) For the reasons explained in Chapter X infra, the proposals in relation to
 Investments (ss.27, 27A, 27B and 27C), restriction on dividends and
 bonuses (s.49), the Tariff Advisory Committee (ss.64UA, 64UB, 64UE,
 64UJ, 64UK and 64UL), valuation of assets (s.64V), solvency margin
 (s.64VA) and restriction on opening new place of business (s.64VC) have
 not been finalised and no recommendations are being made in regard to
 these provisions [para 2.1.4] (iii) Provisions that are set out in a separate table at Appendix-III to this
 Report be deleted from the Act. The said recommendations cover
 deletions in s.2(12) , s.2(13), s.2(16), s.2(17), s.2B(1), s.2C, s.3(5),
 s.3(4)(a), s.3(4)(ee), s.3(5), s.4, s.5(2) & (3) first and second proviso,
 s.6A(1) proviso, s.7(7), s.7(9B), s.10(1), s.10(2), s.10(2A), s.11(1A), s.12,
 s.13(1), s.13(3), s.13(4), s.13(6), s.14, s.15, s.15(2), s.15(3), s.16, s.22,
 s.27(2)(a), (b) and (6), s.27A, s.27B, s.28(4), s.29, s.31B, s.32, s.33(7),
 s.35(1), s.35(3), s.40, s.40A, s.44(1)-Explanation, s.48, s.49, s.48A, s.52,
 s.52H to 52N, s.53, s.59, s.62 to 64, s.64UB (3) and (4), s.64UD, s.64UF 94 to UI, s.64UJ (2) to (6), s.64UM, s.64VA, s.65 to 94, s.95 to 101 and s.114 (f) [para 2.1.5] (iv) It is recommended that the following provisions of the IRDA Act, 1999 ,
 viz., s.2 (Definitions), Chapter II dealing with establishment and incidental
 matters of authority (ss.3-12); Chapter IV dealing with duties, powers and
 functions of the authority (s.14); Chapter V dealing with grants by central
 government, IRDA fund, accounts and audit (ss.15- 17); Chapter VI
 dealing with powers of central government (ss.18 - 23 & 25); s.24
 providing the central government with power to make Rules; s..26
 empowering Authority to make Regulations; s.27 requiring laying of
 Rules and Regulations before Parliament and s.28 (not barring application
 of other laws) be merged with the provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 as
 indicated in Appendix-IV to this Report [para 3.1.3] (v) The final recommendations in relation to the changes be made in the
 provisions concerning the powers and functions of the Insurance
 Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA) are set out in Appendix-V to
 this Report. The sections of the Insurance Act, 1938 which are required to
 be accordingly amended are s.3 , s.3(2)(f), s.3(2A), s.94A(2) (second
 proviso), s.3(2C), s.3(3), s.3(4), s.3A, s.3A(2), s.3A(3), s.3A(4) and
 s.3A(5) [para 3.1.5] (vi) The final recommendations concerning the powers of the IRDA in relation
 to revaluation of the affairs of the insurer, investigation, search and
 seizure, appointment and removal of managerial persons are set out in
 Appendix-VI to this Report. These recommendations to cover
 amendments to the following sections of the Insurance Act, 1938 : s.33(1),
 s.33 (4), s.33(8), s.34B (4), s.34C, s.34E, s.34G, s.34H, s.35(1), s.35(3),
 s.36, s.37A(2), s.37A(4), s.42 (1), s.42(2), s.42(3), s.42(4), s.42(5),
 s.42(6), s.42(7), s.42D, s.42D (1) proviso (a), s.42D(8) & (9), s.64UM,
 s.64UM (1A) s.44, s.47A and s.53 [para 3.1.6] 95 (vii) There is one development that has taken place in the recent past which requires to
 be noticed. It was reported in the January 2004 issue of the IRDA Journal that the
 Central Government had set up an Appellate Authority to review the rulings of
 the IRDA. According to the IRDA Journal, the notification issued by the Central
 Government has set up both a single and a division bench of the Appellate
 Authority and the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance, will constitute the single
 bench and while on the division bench he would be joined by another Joint
 Secretary of the Ministry of Law. The Law Commission is constrained to observe
 that whatever may be the compulsions of the Government to constitute such an
 Appellate Tribunal, the said arrangement is far from satisfactory in terms of
 having an independent and impartial adjudicatory appellate body. [para 4.2.9] (viii) The final recommendations of the Law Commission in regard to the grievance
 redressal mechanism are as under: house mechanism. Where the decision of the in-house mechanism
 is not satisfactory to the claimant or where no decision is given
 within the period of 60 days from the date of making such claim to
 the in-house mechanism, it will be open to the claimant to 96 approach the GRA within a period of 60 days from the date of
 receipt of the decision of the in-house mechanism and of the expiry
 of 60 days after the making of the claim whichever is later. (c) The Grievance Redressal Authority (GRA) will replace the present
 system of having Ombudsmen under the 1998 Rules at the major
 metropolises. The GRA will be a statutory authority exercising
 statutory functions. The GRA will not exercise any jurisdiction in
 relation to the levy of fines and penalties in relation to offences
 under the Act. personal lines of insurance on the following matters: (e) The GRAs should be dispersed as geographically widely as
 possible. For instance, there could be GRAs in each of the major
 cities in the country. This is necessary given the large number of
 policyholders at present and the prospect of this growing in the
 future. There could be more than one GRA in a State depending on
 the number of cases in that State. (f) The powers and jurisdiction of the GRAs would include all the
 powers and functions of the civil court and would involve
 adjudication of issues of fact and law. (g) In addition to the above, it could be provided that all pending
 disputes arising under the Insurance Act, 1938 before the consumer
 fora would be transferred to the GRAs for disposal in accordance
 with the provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 . To this extent an
 amendment may have to be made in the Consumer Protection Act,
 1986 to provide that disputes arising under the Insurance Act, 1938 will not be entertained under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . (h) There will be a clause expressly excluding the jurisdiction of civil
 courts and other tribunal/ fora in regard to such matters that form
 the subject matter of the jurisdiction of the GRA. Every claimant
 before the GRA will be required to make an express declaration
 that no similar claim has been made before any other fora or
 tribunal and further that he has availed the in-house mechanism of
 the insurer as indicated in para (ii) above. (i) With a view to encouraging alternate dispute resolution (ADR) by
 way of mediation or conciliation, it may be provided that a
 claimant may have the choice to opt for mediation or conciliation,
 in which case the GRA will refer the dispute for mediation or
 conciliation by a person or body agreed upon, or were there is no
 agreement, by a person or body nominated by the GRA from a 98 panel prepared by it. Further, the GRA may itself refer the pending
 dispute before it to an ADR process at any stage of the
 proceedings, with the consent of the parties. (j) The decision of the GRA, or the final decision on appeal, will be
 enforceable by the GRA which pass the initial order and for that
 purpose the GRA will exercise all the powers of a civil court. (k) The GRA should be a multi-member body comprising of one
 judicial member who will be the President and two technical
 members. The President and Members of the GRA will hold office
 till the age of 65 years. The President of the GRA should be a
 retired Judicial Officer not below the rank of a senior Civil Judge
 or a lawyer with not less than 20 years of experience nominated in
 consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court. (l) As regards, appointment of technical members to the GRA is
 concerned, consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court is
 not necessary. A panel of names of persons of not less than 15
 years experience in the insurance industry can be prepared by the
 Central Government and sent to a Selection Committee comprising
 the members of the Insurance Councils constituted under s.64C of
 the Act. The said Selection Committee will recommend the names
 from among the panel of technical members to be appointed to the
 GRA. The Central Government will make rules in relation to the
 salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service
 of the President and Members of the GRA. (m) The GRA will formulate rules of procedure to cover matters
 relating to filing of claims, completion of pleadings, evidence on
 affidavits or otherwise, passing of awards and furnishing copies.
 These rules of procedure will also deal with matters relating to 99 enforcement of the decisions of the GRA as finally determined in
 appeals therefrom. (n) The President or Members of GRA shall not be removed from
 office except by an order made by the President on ground of
 proved misbehaviour or incapacity after enquiry made by a Judge
 of the High Court in which such President or Member has been
 informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable
 opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges. The Central
 Government will make rules to regulate the procedure for the
 investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of the President and
 Members of the GRA (o) An appeal will lie from the decision of the GRA to an Insurance
 Appellate Tribunal (IAT). the jurisdiction of which will extend to
 hearing: constituted by a notification of the Central Government
 (as noticed in para 4.2.9 infra) will have to be wound up
 and the appeals pending before it will stand automatically
 transferred to the IAT; (IV) Making of interim orders, conditional or otherwise, in
 relation to the above matters. (p) The IAT should be a multi-member body of a judicial member as
 President and two technical members. The IAT should be presided
 over by a retired High Court Judge nominated in consultation with
 the Chief Justice of India. A certain degree of transparency should
 be induced in the process of selection of such members. The 100 appointments of technical members to the IAT should also be done
 in consultation with the Chief Justice of India. For this purpose, a
 panel of names of persons of not less than 20 years experience in
 the insurance industry should be sent by the Insurance Councils
 (constituted under s.64C of the Act) to the Chief Justice of India.
 The names of technical members will be chosen with the
 concurrence of the Chief Justice of India. The Central Government
 will make rules in relation to the salaries and allowances and other
 terms and conditions of service of the President and Members of
 the IAT. (q) The President and Members of the IAT will hold office till the age
 of 68 years. The removal of the President and the Members of the
 IAT for proven misbehaviour or incapacity will be upon enquiry
 by a Judge of the Supreme Court of India in which such President
 or Member has been informed of the charges against him and
 given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those
 charges. The Central Government will make rules to regulate the
 procedure for the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of
 the President and Members of the IAT. (r) The Principal Bench of the Insurance Appellate Tribunal (IAT)
 should be in New Delhi. It is preferable that there is one IAT in
 each State. However, there can be one IAT for one or more States
 as may be decided by the Central Government, or by agreement
 between State Governments on the pattern of s.4(3) of the
 Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985. (s) The IAT will formulate rules of procedure to cover matters relating
 to filing of appeals, completion of pleadings, making of orders
 both interim and final and furnishing copies. (t) The expenditure for the constitution of the GRAs and the IATs and
 their maintenance must be borne by the Central Government in as
 much as they are to adjudicate disputes arising under a central
 statute. (u) There will be a further statutory appeal to the Supreme Court from
 the decision of the IAT. The appeal will have to be filed within 60
 days of the decision of the IAT. (v) There should be an adjudication fee levied in respect of a claim
 before the GRA and an appeal before the IAT. However, any
 individual policyholder, may upon showing sufficient cause, be
 exempt by the GRA or the IAT, as the case may be, from paying
 such adjudication fee. [para 4.3.8] (ix) The final recommendations of the Law Commission in regard to s.45 are: The claimants will in such instance not be entitled to either the policy
 amount or the premium amounts. (c) The insurer can repudiate a policy of life insurance at any time before
 the expiry of a period of five years from the date of the policy or the
 date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or
 the date of the rider to the policy whichever is later on the ground that
 the insured had made a misstatement of or suppressed a material fact,
 i.e., a fact material to the assessment of the risk, either in the proposal
 form or any other document on the basis of which the life insurance
 policy was issued or revived or a rider issued to it. While such
 repudiation will result in the claimants forfeiting the policy amount it
 will not entail their forfeiting the premium amounts collected on the
 policy. Thus in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of
 misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground
 of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till the date of
 repudiation will be liable to be returned to the insured or the legal
 representatives/ nominees/ assignees of the insured. (d) The misstatement of or suppression of fact will not be considered
 material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the
 insurer. The onus is on the insurer to show that had the insurer been
 aware of the said fact no life insurance policy would have been issued
 to the insured. (e) No repudiation of the policy to be permitted on the ground of fraud
 where the insured can prove that the suppression or misstatement of
 the material fact made was true to the best of his knowledge and belief 103 or that there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that
 such misstatement of or suppression of a material fact was within the
 knowledge of the insurer or the agent of the insurer. (f) A person who solicits and negotiates a contract of insurance should be
 deemed for the purpose of the formation of the contract, to be the
 agent of the insurers, and that the knowledge of such person should be
 deemed to be the knowledge of the insurers. (g) The insurer will have to communicate in writing to the insured or the
 legal representatives/ nominees/ assignees of the insured the grounds
 and materials on which the decision to repudiate a policy on the
 ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact is based. [para 5.1.39] (x) S.45 be amended to reflect the changes recommended above. S.45 be
 recast as indicated in para 5.1.40. (xi) In relation to s.38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 concerning assignment or
 transfer of policy, the final recommendations of the Law Commission are: [para 6.1.18] 105 (xii) S.38 be amended to reflect the changes recommended above. S.38 be
 recast as indicated in para 6.1.19. (xiii) In relation to s.39 concerning nominations, the final recommendations of
 the Law Commission are: [para 7.1.14] (xiv) S.39 be amended to reflect the changes recommended above. S.39 be
 recast as indicated in para 7.1.15. (xv) The final recommendation of the Law Commission in regard to penalties
 and certain other provisions are as under: (q) S.113 (1) relating to acquisition of surrender values be amended to
 indicate that the IRDA may from time to time notify the minimum
 amount of the paid up value and annuity. [para 8.1.2]

 (xvi) Given the scope of the present reference and the nature of the issues
 involved, the Law Commission does not consider it appropriate to make
 any recommendations in regard to the provisions concerning surveyors
 and loss assessors; investments, tariffs, shareholders' and policyholders'
 funds and extent of foreign shareholding, [paras 9.1.10 to 9.1.20]. 10.1.2 We acknowledge the extensive contribution made by Dr. S. Muralidhar, Part-time
Member of Law Commission, in preparing this Report as well as Consultation Paper. We recommend accordingly. (Justice M. Jagannadha Rao)

 Chairman

 (Dr. N.M. Ghatate)

 Vice-Chairman

 (Dr. K.N. Chaturvedi)

 Member-Secretary

Dated: 1st June, 2004 110 APPENDIX-I

 CONSULTATION PAPER OF THE LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA ON
 REVISION OF THE INSURANCE ACT 1938
 [Para 1.6.1] 6. Need for and grounds of revision of the Insurance Act, 1938 6.1 In this context, and in the changing economic scenario, it is felt that the IRDA
 would have to play a vital role for the regulation and development of insurance
 business. Accordingly, it is felt that the Insurance Act, 1938 would require review
 and revision. This has prompted the present reference to the Law Commission of
 India. 6.2 .1 The revision of the Act has to be carried out in such a manner that it not only
 promotes insurance business but also protects policyholders and strengthens the
 Authority to ensure financial stability. While revising the Act, the other related
 laws are also be reviewed and the relevant provisions of the IRDA, Act, 1999 are
 required to be merged into the principal Act after necessary modifications. In fact,
 an integrated approach to revise the insurance laws is the need of the hour. 6.2.2 The necessity for merging the provisions of the IRDA Act with the Insurance Act,
 1938 is to bring about an integrated approach to the task of formulating a
 legislative regime that can encompass the key facets of the functioning of the
 Regulatory Authority even while strengthening the regulatory regime. With the
 IRDA exercising many of the key functions assigned to it under the Insurance
 Act, 1938 , there is no justification for continuing to have a separate legislation
 concerning the constitution and functions of the IRDA. Moreover, at the time that
 the IRDA Act was being prepared, the task of a comprehensive revision of the Insurance Act, 1938 was felt necessary but was not undertaken due to paucity of
 time. Now, with the experience of the functioning o the IRDA and several rounds
 of discussion with key insurance personnel, a comprehensive revision of the Insurance Act, 1938 appears possible. 6.2.3 The present exercise of revision of the Insurance Act, 1938 does not touch upon the
following areas: 7. Plan of revision of the provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 7.1 An attempt is made here to propose amendments in the principal Act as a result of
preliminary study of existing legal framework for the purpose of revision of the Insurance
Act . The Law Commission of India initially prepared an approach paper and held
discussions with officials of the IRDA as well as certain other key personnel in the
Insurance sector. As a result of these discussions, it is decided that the work of revision of
the Insurance Act, 1938 should be undertaken under the following topics: 8.1.3 For this purpose, the definitions enumerated in s.2 may be merged in the
definition part of the Principal Act. Chapter II of the Act of 1999 dealing with the
establishment and other incidental matters regarding Authority (SS. 3-12); Chapter IV
dealing with the duties, powers and functions of the Authority ( S.14 ); Chapter V dealing
with the grants by Central Government, IRDA fund and Accounts and Audit (Ss. 15-17);
Chapter VI dealing with powers of the Central Government (Ss. 18-23 and 25) may be
placed together and merged in the Principal Act before part II of the Principal Act under
the proposed part "Part IA" to be entitled as 'Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority'. S.24 providing the Central government the power to make rules, s.26
providing the Authority power to make regulations and S.27 providing for laying of rules
and regulations before the Houses of Parliament may be merged respectively in ss.114 and 114 A of the principal Act providing for the same. Again S.28 may be shifted to the
principal Act after s.114A . 8.1.4 The proposed merger would not only help facilitate the insurers and the insured,
agents and surveyors, actuaries and auditors, lawyers and litigants in understanding the
role of IRDA but locating all the provisions at one place. 8.1.5 For ready reference, a table showing the scheme for merger of the provisions of
the IRDA Act with the Insurance Act is set out hereunder: (already appended to main
Report as Appendix-IV and therefore not repeated here)

8.2 Changes in definitions, deletions and other amendments
8.2.1 The definitions of various terms are required to be amended because of the
legislative changes, establishment of IRDA replacing the Controller and 'controller',
'general insurance', 'life insurance business' and 'insurer'. The term insurer is required to
be defined comprehensively so as to eliminate any ambiguity as regards application of
the provisions of the Act. This term should indicate Indian insurance companies and
insurance cooperative society. The inclusion of government organizations within this
term may also be considered under exceptions/exemptions. 8.2.2 Some of the terms are required to be deleted from the definition part, e.g.,
manager, officer and managing agent in clauses (12) (13) of s.2 as also private and public
company and special agent under clauses (16) and (17). The relevant definitions of the IRDA Act may be merged in s.2 of the Principal Act with necessary modifications. 8.2.3 For ready reference, a table showing the changes required in the definitions and
amendments to certain provisions (other than those relating to the powers of the IRDA) is
annexed to this paper as Appendix-I. Provisions that are required to be deleted as having
become irrelevant/ redundant are indicated in a separate table as Appendix II. 8.2.4 There are large chunks of provisions in the Insurance Act, 1938 that are no longer
required. Those pertaining to acquisition of undertaking of insurers as contained in s.52 H to s.52 N are no longer required. Likewise, the special provisions relating to External
Companies as contained in s.62 to 64 are also no longer relevant since the present scheme
is not to permit such External Companies. The whole of Part III pertaining to Provident
Societies and Part IV relating to Mutual Insurance Companies and Co-operative Life
Insurance Societies are also no longer relevant. The provisions contained in these Parts
need to be deleted. These deletions are also indicated in Appendix-II. 8.3 Powers of the IRDA
8.3.1 The powers of the IRDA include the power to grant registration, to refuse the
registration, to cancel or suspend or renew registration. In all these areas, it is proposed to
make certain changes which are set out in the form of a table as under: (already appended
to main Report as Appendix V and therefore not repeated here)
8.3.2 In regard to the other powers of the IRDA in relation to revaluation of the affairs
of the insurer, investigation, search and seizure, appointment and removal of managerial
persons, the changes proposed are set out in a tabular form as under: (already appended to
main Report as Appendix VI and therefore not repeated here) 115 8.4 Obligations of the insurers under the Act
8.4.1 These obligations can be broadly categorised as under: a. Maintaining of deposits (s.7)
 b. Maintaining separation of accounts and funds (s.10)
 c. Preparing accounts and balance sheet (s.11)
 d. Requirements as to audit (s.12)
 e. Submission of actuarial report and abstract (s.13)
 f. Maintaining register of policies (s.14)
 g. Submission of returns (s.15)
 h. Returns by insurers outside of India (s.16)
 i. Making of investments (s.27)
 j. Investment of controlled fund (s.27A)
 k. Investment by insurers carrying on general insurance business
 (s.27B)
 l. Investments not to be made outside India (s.27C)
 m. Submission of statement of investments of assets (s.28)
 n. Submission of return of investments (s.28A & B)
 o. Prohibition on giving of loans (s.29)
 p. Maintaining of assets (s.31)
 q. Restriction on payment of excessive remuneration (s.31B)
 r. Limitation on employment of managing agents (s.32)
 s. Prohibition of common officers (s.32A)
 t. Obligations in rural and social sector (s.32B & C)
 u. Statements after amalgamation (s.37A)
 v. Prohibition of payment of commission (s.40)
 w. Payment of renewal commission [s.40 (2A)]
 x. Heritable commission (s.44)
 y. Limitation on expenses of management (s.40B & C)
 z. Prohibition on rebates (s.41)
 aa. Register of insurance agents (s.43)
 bb. Restriction on dividends and bonus (s.49)
 cc. Prohibition of business on dividing principle (s.52)
 dd. Maintenance of solvency margin (s.64V & VA)
 ee. Restriction on opening of new place of business (s.64VC)

8.4.2 In relation to the above, several amendments are proposed and these are indicated
in the table at Appendix I. In addition, there are provisions that are required to be deleted
and these are indicated in Appendix II. 8.5 Interests of the policyholders
8.5.1 Supply of copies of proposal and medical reports

Every insurer carrying on life insurance business is under an obligation to supply to the
policyholder under s.51 certified copies of the questions put to him and his answers
thereto contained in his proposal for insurers and in the medical report supplied in
connection therewith, on an application by the policyholder and payment of the fee which
shall not exceed Re.1. The fee prescribed is too inadequate. It would be appropriate if the
fee which is to be charged for such purpose is prescribed in the regulations. Hence
amendment to this effect may be made. 8.5.2 Notice to given of the options on the lapsing of the policy

Every insurer carrying on life insurance business is required under s.50 of the principal
Act to give notice to the holder of life insurance policy before the expiry of three months
from the date on which the premium in respect of a policy of life insurance were payable
but not paid, informing him of the options available unless these are set forth in the
policy. The notice given by the life insurer is certainly a notice given prior to the lapsing of the
policy and in fact protect the interests of policyholders. But the provisions of this section
do not mentioned of this notice if the options available to the assured on the lapsing of
the policy are set forth in the policy. It is suggested that even if the policy details about
options, such a notice is required because life insurance policies are long-term policies
and in the ordinary course of business. These options are seldom noticed by the
policyholder. Hence the words "unless these are set forth in a policy" may be omitted,
which would make the notice requirement unconditional. 8.5.3 Policy not to be called in question on the ground of mis-statement after two
years

8.5.3.1 S. 45 places restrictions on the right of the insurer to repudiate his liability under
the policy. This section provides that a life insurance policy cannot be called in question
after the expiry of two years from the date on which it was effected on the ground of mis-
statement in the policy unless it is shown that all the three conditions enumerated in
second part of s.45 are satisfied, viz., (i) the statement must be on a material fact, (ii)
there has been suppression of the material fact which it was material to disclose or the
facts have been fraudulently made by the policy holder, and (iii) the policy holder must
have known at the time of making the statement that it was false or that it suppressed
facts which it was material. 8.5.3.2 The section was enacted to prevent immense loss and hardships caused to the
insured and his legal representatives because the insurers avoided contract of life
insurance policy due to incorrect statements whether material or not made by the insured
even after the policy had been in force for several years and all the premium paid were 117 forfeited in that case by the insurer. Thus the provision in effect mitigated the rule of
uberrima fides, i.e., utmost good faith. The life insurance contracts are basically governed
by this rule and obligation to deal fairly and honestly is upon both the parties equally. 8.5.3.3 The provisions of this section does not affect the insurer's right for a period of
two years from the date of the policy, but thereafter, no policy can be challenged on the
ground that mis-statement made in the proposal or in any report of the medical officer
was inaccurate or false unless it was material to disclose and it was fraudulently made.
However, the provisions of this section do not confirm any right on the insurer to
repudiate a policy which has been in force for less than two years on the grounds as
stated above irrespective of its materiality. 8.5.3.4 In the past, problems have arisen with misrepresentation or non-disclosure
whenever personal characteristics are collected by insurance agents for risk classification.
The legal questions involving this characteristic usually center on the disclosure of
material information by the insured. In this context, the issue is when would failure to
make such a disclosure render the contract void or voidable. There have been several
judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in this regard which have underscored the
importance of the burden of proof shifting to the insurer after the expiry of two years
after the effective date of the policy, if the insurer seeks to repudiate the claim on the
basis of fraud or suppression of facts which were material be disclosed. (For e.g., Mithoolal Nayak v. Life Insurance Corporation of India , AIR 1962 SC 814 and Life
Insurance Corporation of India v. Smt. G.M. Channabasamma , (1991) 1 SCC 357). 8.5.3.5 In its 112th Report in 1985, the Law Commission of India dealt with the question
of repudiation of claim by the LIC in the context of s.45 of the Act. After considering the
views of the insurers and policyholders, as well as the judgment reports, the Commission
suggested that s.45 be amended to provide that: 8.5.3.6 It is proposed that the changes recommended by the Law Commission in its 112th
Report as stated above be once again recommended. This will, it is hoped, sufficiently
protect the interests of the policyholders. 8.5.4 Policyholders to elect the directors of insurers S.48 of the Act provides for election of one-fourth of the directors of the insurance
company by the holders of life insurance policies and also as to the eligibility 118 requirements of policyholders for such election. This section had become irrelevant since
the nationalization and establishment of LIC, therefore should have been repealed long
back. But in the changed economic scenario and private players in the field, the
provisions again require the reconsideration, especially in the context of insurance
cooperative society as insurers, where the directors are elected by not only the members
of the society but even by policy holders because many of them would be member-policy
holders. The deletion of this section has been suggested in view of the regulations relating to the
protection of policyholder's interest, which adequately ensure the protection of their
interest. It may be noted here that the IRDA itself has a member to represent the
consumers. Moreover, regulations relating to solvency margin and investments also
secure their interest. If this section is repealed, consequently s.114 (2) (f) would be
required to be deleted as it empowers the Central Government to make rules for the
purposes of s.48 . Further, Rules 13, 14 and 15 of Insurance Rules would have to be
deleted as they laid down the procedure for election of the Director by the policyholders. This suggestion may be considered but in case of insurance cooperative society, the
directors are elected by the members of the society and would be elected even by
policyholders because many of them would be member-policy holders. Hence, in view of
this, the repeal of this section would not be appropriate. 8.5.5 Life Insurance agents not to be appointed as directors of life insurance
 companies

8.5.5.1 S. 48A prohibits life insurance agents to become or to remain as directors of any
insurance company in order to protect the interests of policyholders. The disqualification
prescribed in this section may also be made applicable to insurance agents of general
insurance business. Therefore, the provisions of s.48A may be amended to that effect. 8.5.5.2 The words "or general insurance business" may be added after the words "life
insurance business". Consequently, marginal note to the section would also require
amendment. The word "Life" occurring in the marginal note may be omitted. 8.5.5.3 The words "and no chief agent or special agent" are required to be omitted.
Similarly, the words, "carrying on life insurance business" need deletion, so also the
proviso to this section. 8.5.6 Assignment and transfer of policies

8.5.6.1 Life insurance policies are held by the policyholders to secure their future as these
policies create a vested interest and have been dealt as having the features of intangible
property. S.38 therefore provides for the transfer or assignment of a policy of life
insurance by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by separate instrument signed by
the transferor/ assigner or by any authorized agent and attested by one witness setting
forth the fact of transferring assignment. The transfer/ assignment can be made in favour 119 of the insurer also but shall not confer upon the transferee or assignee or his legal
representative any right to sue for the amount secured under such policy until a notice in
writing of the transfer have been delivered both by this transfer and transferee to the
insurer. There can be more than one transfer/ assignment as per sub-section (3) of this
section. In such cases the priority of claims shall be governed in the order in which
notices have been delivered. 8.5.6.2 Although s.38 resembles s.130 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, it excludes
the operation of the latter provision from the field since the former (s.38 of the Insurance
Act, 1938 ) is a specific statutory provision. 8.5.6.3 This section deals with both absolute and conditional assignments, the former
transferring to the assignee all rights, title and interest which the assigner has in the
policy without any defeasance clause, and the latter being a conditional assignment as
contemplated under sub-section (7) which creates an immediate vested interest in the
assignee but which is liable to be divested on the happening of events specified in the
assignment. A question arises whether a conditional assignee is entitled to obtain a
loan under, or surrender, the policy without the concurrence of the insured. If it is
answered in affirmative, the conditional assignment would stand converted into an
absolute assignment and defeat the object of the former. While any transfer is subject to
the terms and conditions specified in the instrument of transfer, the specific provisions in
sub-section (5) of s.38 may mean either or both of the following: First, under sub-section
(7), the assignor may become entitled to the policy money if the assignment becomes
inoperative; second, the insurer may not recognize the assignee as the only person
entitled to benefit under the policy if the terms of assignment expressly or by implication
do not confer on him any particular right or benefit and treat the insured for such
entitlement. If the insured reserves the right to receive the policy money on maturity, the
assignee cannot exercise the right to surrender. 8.5.6.4 The interpretation of sub-section (7) may create some difficulty in view of sub-
section (5), for example, a specified event during the life time of the insured may not
refer to an event affecting the status etc of the assignee. 8.5.6.5 There is another difficulty if an assignment is duly executed but no notice has
been delivered to the insurer under sub-section (2). The assignment is not invalid but the
assignee will not have the right to sue the insurer. In this backdrop, the provisions of sub-
sections (5) and (7) need reconsideration and revision so as to remove anomalies.
However, a suggestion has been made that sub-section (7) should be dropped. This may,
however, attract the application of s.130 of the Transfer of Property Act unless a proviso
is made to exclude the application of s.130 of the Transfer of Property Act. 8.5.6.6 S.38 (4) prescribes one rupee as the fee for acknowledgement of the notice of the
transfer of assignment. This amount is wholly inadequate. Hence, the words one rupee
may be replaced by the words "not exceeding an amount prescribed by the Authority in
the Regulations". 8.5.7 Proposal for partial assignment of policies

8.5.7.1 The Act does not provide for partial assignment of policies required especially in
case of assignments for collateral security for loans, where the sum assured is more than
the amount of loan. It is, therefore, suggested that a new sub-section may be inserted
to provide for partial assignment of policies with the rider that the original assignor
is not allowed to further assign his residual rights to the third party with a view to
prevent any clash of interest of several assignees at the time of making the claim. 8.5.7.2 The provisions of this section are applicable to only life insurance policies. It is
desired that its application be extended to all personal lines of non-life insurance
business. 8.5.8 Nomination by policyholder

8.5.8.1 S.39 provides for nomination of life insurance policies. It enables the holder of
the policy to nominate the person to whom money secured by the policy shall be paid in
the event of death of the policyholder. Such a nomination can be made when effecting the
policy or at any time before the policy matures and can be changed or cancelled by an
endorsement or a will. However, any change or cancellation in this regard is to be
notified to the insurer under sub-section (2); otherwise insurer would not be liable to
make any payment to the nominee. 8.5.8.2 Sub- section 3 prescribes fee of Re.1 to be charged for written acknowledgement
in respect of registration of nomination or any change thereof. The fee is inadequate and
hence be enhanced. The maximum limit may be specified in regulations by the Authority.
Accordingly, sub-section may be amended. Thus the words "amount as specified in the
regulations by the Authority" be substituted for the words "one rupee". 8.5.8.3 Sub-section (4) contemplates automatic cancellation of a nomination in case of
transfer and assignment of the policy except where the assignment is made in favour of
insurer for advancement of loan. What about a situation where a policy is assigned to a
non-insurer under s.38 ? In such cases, the problem of nomination and related matters
may create difficulties. In order to deal with this problem it is appropriate that the
existing proviso to this section may be given effect to cover this situation or another
provision may be inserted to the effect that the nomination stands automatically
revived when the policy is reassigned by the assignee in favour of the policyholder
on repayment of loan other than on security of policy to the insurer. 8.5.8.4 Generally, upon reassignment of the policy, the policyholders forget to intimate
insurer of any change of nomination or their intention to continue the same nomination
which existed at the time of assignment of the policy. Hence an explicit provision may
be inserted to the effect that nomination that existed at the time of assignment be
restored or on assignment of the policy to the holder that very nomination shall be
deemed to be in force till it is cancelled or changed as provided in sub-section (2). This kind of additional provision would facilitate insurers in discharging their liabilities
expeditiously in respect of policy money. 8.5.8.5 Sub-section (6) of the section provides that if a nominee survives the insured
person, the amount of the policy money would be payable to such nominee-survivor/s.
The section does not indicate clearly as to whether the nominee is entitled to retain the
money so paid as the beneficial owner of the amount or he is merely the nominal owner
of the money which forms part of the estate of the insured person so that his heirs,
creditors, legatees may have claims on that money. 8.5.8.6 The case law on this issue reveals two trends. One is that s.39 (6) confers on the
nominee merely the right to collect and receive from the insurer, the policy money. The
other is that the nominee is not merely a recipient of the money but also the beneficial
owner thereof. Various High Courts have adopted different approaches in interpretation
of the provisions of sub-section (6) of s.39 giving rise to two views. The Gujarat,
Calcutta, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa High Courts adopted one view and the Andhra
Pradesh and Allahabad High Courts took the other view. 8.5.8.7 The Law Commission of India in its 82nd Report in 1980, dealt with the issue of
the rights of the nominee, heirs, creditors, legatees of the insured of the money secured by
the policy of life insurance after it is paid to the nominee. The Commission surveyed the
then existing case law and other legislative precedents. It also considered the aspect of
social justice i.e. legitimate expectations of the near relatives, especially women, parents
and children who deserve financial protection after the death of policy holder because
death is like to have the deepest impact on their personal lives and found that the existing
provisions fail to fulfil the same. The Commission also noted that when a person makes a
nomination, he cannot confer on any nominee any right higher than what he himself has
and that this would accordingly determine the rights of the nominee in the sum assured
under the life insurance policy. Accordingly, the Commission in its 82nd Report (1980)
recommended the inclusion of the following provisions: 8.5.8.8 In Sarbati Devi v. Usha Devi , AIR 1984 SC 346, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court held that a mere nomination made under s.39 does not have the effect of conferring
on the nominee any beneficial interest in the amount payable under the policy on the
death of the assured. The court further observed that the nominee acquires no interest in
the policy during the life time of the policy holder, therefore, after the death of the policy
holder, the amount under the policy becomes payable to his legal heirs, the nominee is
only the authorized person to collect the payment so that insurer gets a valid discharge of
its liability under the policy. A very important observation made in this case is that the
provisions of s.39 cannot alter the course of succession under the law. The observations
in the aforesaid case were followed by various High Courts. 8.5.8.9 The above decision in Sarbati Devi 's case was taken note of by the Law
Commission when it submitted its 137th Report in 1990 on the Employees' Provident
Fund Act. The Commission modified its earlier view and recommended as under: nominee and not a collector-nominee or vice versa. The same formula can also be
 evolved in respect of life insurance policies and the recommendation by the Law
 Commission in its 82nd Report may be reiterated with this modification.
5.12 Nomination under life insurance policies - While it is outside the scope of the
 subject matter of this report it may not be in appropriate that a similar formula can
 be adopted in respect of nominations under life insurance policies in the context 123 of the recommendation made by the Commission in its 82nd report presented more
 than a decade ago on 2nd February, 1980. 5.13 For, even in respect of life insurance policies, the public at large is perhaps
 unaware of the true legal position. Many of the persons seeking the protection of
 insurance policies may well be labouring under the misconception that the
 nominee would become an absolute beneficiary in his or her own right. The same
 would be the case with regard to those who are covered by the Act and the
 Scheme. It is, therefore, essential in the interest of all concerned that the position
 of law is settled. As has been recounted earlier, the Commission has already
 recommended amendment of the Life Insurance Act with a view to making a
 nominee a person in whom the beneficial interest would vest to the exclusion of
 other heirs. Since, however, no decisions has been taken on the recommendation
 of the Law Commission, the matter is still not free from vagueness in the sense
 that the members of the public may not be full aware of the implications of
 nominations and the import of the decision of the Supreme Court in Sarbati
 Devi 's case. That is why the course suggested in para 5.12 read with para 5.11
 hereinabove deserves to be adopted. The above recommendation is reiterated and views are invited on whether s.39 can be
amended accordingly. 8.5.8.10 A suggestion has been made that, in case the policyholder dies after the
maturity of the policy but is not able to encash the proceeds because of his death, a
nominee may be entitled to the same. To this effect, a proviso may be added to make the
nomination effectual for receiving policy money. 8.5.8.11 Another suggestion has come for enabling the insured person, by way of
an option, to make a nomination that confers absolute ownership of policy money on the
nominee upon the death of the life assured. According to this suggestion, such a
nomination will place the nominee on the same status as that of a nominee under s.45ZA of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 8.5.9 Payment of money into court
Many a times, it is impossible for the insurer to satisfactorily discharge any life insurance
policy for payment due to conflicting claims, or insufficiency or proof of title, to the
amount secured thereby. In such situations, the insurer may, under the provisions of s.47 ,
with the permission of the court and subject to conditions specified in sub-sections (3)
and (4) of the section, make payment of the same (deposit) into the court. The claimants
in such cases would certainly like to engage lawyers and ultimately in this process the
claimants become the victim rather beneficiary of the amount so claimed. It is, therefore,
suggested that insurer may, in the circumstances as aforesaid, may deposit the
amount with IRDA or the apparent tribunal as the case may be. It is appropriate if
an Insurance Lok Adalat is constituted for disposing of such claims. Such a
procedure would be in the interest of the claimants because disposal by Lok Adalat would
be speedy and without any technicalities. 8.6 Tariff Advisory Committee - composition and powers
8.6.1 The tariff rates in respect of general insurance business are determined by
a body known as Tariff Advisory Committee established under a principal Act in 1968 (Insurance Amendment Act of 1968). Before its establishment, tariff committee regulated
the rates and advantages in respect of general insurance business. 8.6.2 The principal Act provides under s.64 U for the establishment of a Tariff
Advisory Committee (TAC), a body corporate having perpetual succession and common
seal, to control and regulate the rates advantages, terms and conditions that may be
offered by insurers in respect of general insurance business. 8.6.3 It is an important body functioning under the control of the Authority
since 1999. Before 1999, TAC was functioning under the Controller of Insurance. The
primary objective of the committee is to fix the price of the insurance products
scientifically in order to standardize decision-making choice of the consumer. 8.6.4 Composition of TAC
The Act prescribes the composition of TAC, as to consist of a Chairman (ex-officio
chairman of the Authority), a Vice Chairman (a Senior Officer of the IRDA to be
nominated by the Authority), not more than 10 elected representative of insurers and not
more than four representative of insurers domiciled outside India but registered in India. 8.6.5 At present the practice is that members of the Advisory Committee are not elected
but are nominated or co-opted. In view of this practice, the provisions may be amended.
The following provision may be substituted in clause (c) of s.64 UA (1): 8.6.6 The Authority is empowered to nominate Secretary of the TAC (S.64UA (2)) who
functions under the direction and control of the Authority (sub-section (5))

8.6.7 Powers of the TAC (i) Power to control rates, advantages, terms and conditions in respect of risk other
than life (general insurance)

8.6.7.1 The Act empowers TAC, under s.64 UC to control and regulate the rates,
advantages, terms and conditions offered by the insurers in respect of any class of risk
and it shall be binding on all insurers. However, in certain cases it may permit any insure
for a limited period (not exceeding 2 years) to adopt different rates from those fixed by it,
subject to such conditions as may be imposed by TAC. 8.6.7.2 Sub- section 3 provides that every decision of TAC would be valid only after its
ratification by the Authority, whereas, provisions of sub-section (4) states that the 125 decisions of TAC under the provisions of this section would be final. The provisions of
both these sub-sections reveal inconsistency, therefore provisions need to be recast so as
to remove the same. The issue is - when decisions have to be ratified by the Authority,
then obviously those should be treated as final, why should the provisions of sub-section
(4) be retained? 8.6.7.3 The insurers, who commit any breach of rate/ advantage fixed by TAC, are guilty
of the contravention of the provisions of this Act under sub-section (5) of this section.
Surprisingly, proviso to this sub-section allows the Authority to make good the
contravention by recovering from the insurer deficiency in the premium or compounding
the offence of contravention by allowing the insurer to make payment to the Advisory
committee of the fine of the amount not exceeding Rs.1000. 8.6.7.4 The amount of fine is not adequate, hence should be enhanced. Again, if
deficiency in premium is not rectified then 25% of the difference of the premium to be
recovered from the insurer may be provided for. (ii) Power of TAC to require information

8.6.7.5 TAC may require by notice under S.64 UE any insurer to supply necessary
information within the period specified by it and failure to do so would be deemed as
contravention of the Act. This provision is similar to that of the s.44A wherein the
Authority has been empowered to exercise similar powers. 8.6.7.6 Sub-section (3) of s.64 UE empowers the Authority to depute any of its officers to
make personal inspection of accounts, ledger etc. in order to verify accuracy of
statements furnished by the insurer. 8.6.7.7 Advisory committee is a statutory body and it is appropriate that the powers under
this section be exercised by TAC instead of Authority because verification of whatever
submitted by the insurers under sub-section [1] should be done by the Advisory
committee and not by the Authority. Therefore, in sub-section (3), the word "Authority'" 8.7 Machinery for redressal of grievances/ claims
The 1998 Rules

8.7.1 In 1998, the central government framed the Redressal of Public Grievances Rules,
1998 in exercise of the powers under s.114 (1) of the Insurance Act, 1938. Under these
Rules, there was to be a governing body of Insurance Council which was in turn, under
Rule 6 to appoint one or more persons as Ombudsman for the purposes of these Rules.
An Ombudsman is appointed under Rule 7 for a term of three years and shall be eligible
for reappointment. However, no Ombudsman shall hold office after attaining the age of
65 years. 8.7.2 Under Rule 12 the powers of the Ombudsman are to receive and consider: 8.7.4 The decision of the Ombudsman is final. Under Rule 15 it appears that the
insurance company has to comply with the decision of the Ombudsman whereas an
option is given to the complainant whether or not he accepts the award. Where there is no
such acceptance by the complainants, it is open to the Ombudsman pass an award "which
he thinks fare in the facts and circumstances of the case". The protection of policyholders interests Regulations
8.7.5 The IRDA has, in exercise of its powers under s.114A (2) (zc) made the IRDA
(Protection of Policyholders' Interest) Regulations, 2002. Regulation 5 mandates that
every insurer "shall have in place proper procedures and effective mechanism address
complaints and grievances of policyholders efficiently and with speed and the same along
with the information in respect of Insurance Ombudsman shall be communicated to the
policyholder along with the policy document and as may be found necessary." Under Regulation 8 the procedure for maintaining and processing a claim in regard to a life
insurance policy has been set out. Regulation 9 lays down a similar procedure in respect
of a general insurance policy. Other mechanisms

8.7.6 Apart from the above mechanisms, at present a large number of complaints are
being filed by dissatisfied policyholders under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 alleging deficiency of service when either a claim is not settled or only partially settled.
An analysis of the decisions rendered by the various consumer fora would reveal that a
number of cases under this subject is growing by the day and the consumer fora are called
upon frequently to interpret the provisions of the Insurance Act 1938. However, on
account of the large number of other cases that are pending decision before the consumer
fora, this remedy is no longer a speedy or efficient one. 8.7.7 Further, although there is some mechanism, as spelt out in the above Rules and
Regulations in so far as the grievances of policyholders are concerned, there is no
effective mechanisms as regards insurers vis-à-vis the IRDA. This also will have to be
taken into account while suggesting a suitable grievance redressal machinery. SEBI model

8.7.8 The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (SEBI Act ) established the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is entrusted the functions of a regulator of
the stock markets. Chapter VI A of the said Act provides for penalties in adjudication.
Section 15A and 15H provide for penalties for contravention or failure to follow the
regulations prescribed by the SEBI and penalties will be adjudicated by adjudicating
officers appointed under section 15 I of the Act. The adjudicating officers shall be
appointed from amongst the officers of the SEBI not below the rank of a Division Chief
who will hold an inquiry in the prescribed manner and after giving a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, impose a penalty. Section 15J spells out the factors to be
taken into account by the adjudicating officer. Appeals from the orders of the 129 Adjudicating Officers will lie to the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) presided over
by a sitting or a retired Judge of the Supreme Court or a sitting or a retired Chief Justice
of a High Court. The other Members of the Tribunal shall be appointed from persons who
have expertise in dealing with problems relating to securities market and having
qualifications and experience of corporate law, securities law, finance, economics and
accountancy. Under s.15 Z of the SEBI Act, as amended in 2002, a further appeal to the
Supreme Court from the decision of the SAT has been provided. 8.7.9 It is proposed to adopt SEBI model with certain modifications and additions. In
addition to redress the grievance of the policy holders, it is proposed to provide for the
establishment of a three -member Grievance Redressal Authority (GRA) in the major
cities to hear complaints from policy holders/consumers against the insurers. The GRA
will be presided over a by a sitting or a retired district judge and in addition will consist
of two members who have expertise in the field of insurance. 8.7.10 Further, on similar lines as the SEBI Act , it is proposed to provide for adjudication
in matters involving contravention of the Act, Rules and Regulations made by the IRDA
with maximum penalties specified in the Insurance Act, 1938 itself. In addition, ss. 102-
105C of the Insurance Act 1938 prescribe penalties for contravention of or default in
compliance with the provisions of the Act. It appears from the reading of the provisions
that the penalty will be determined by the criminal courts since it appears to be in the
nature of a fine. It is proposed to modify these provisions and provide that these penalties
will be levied after an adjudication/inquiry by adjudicating officers on the pattern of the SEBI Act . These adjudicating officers will be appointed from amongst the officers of the
IRDA above a certain level like the Adjudicating Officers of the SEBI. The Adjudicating
Officers will be positioned in different locations in the country to facilitate the widest
geographical access to insurers, insurance intermediaries and insurance agents. 8.7.11 It is also proposed to provide for the establishment of an Insurance Appellate
Tribunal (IAT) to hear appeals from the orders of the adjudicating officers and also from
the decisions of the GRAs. The IAT will also hear appeals from the orders of the IRDA
on matters involving insurers and insurance agents including registration and grant of
licences. The IAT will have a retired or sitting judge of the Supreme Court or a retried or
sitting Chief Justice of a High Court as its Presiding Officer. Two other members of the
IAT will be persons of integrity, ability and standing and having requisite qualifications
and experience in the field of insurance. It is proposed that there should be a further
appeal to the Supreme Court from the decisions of the IAT similar to s.15 Z of the SEBI
Act. Recommendation
8.7.12 The tentative proposals for a full fledged grievance redressal mechanism are as
under: This is necessary given the large number of policyholders at present and
 the prospect of this growing in the future. (d) The powers and jurisdiction of the GRAs would include all the powers and
 functions presently performed by Ombudsman under the 1998 Rules. (e) In addition to the above, it could be provided that all pending disputes
 arising under the Insurance Act, 1938 before the consumer fora would be
 transferred to the GRAs for disposal in accordance with the provisions of
 the Insurance Act, 1938 . To this extent an amendment may have to be
 made in the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 to provide that disputes
 arising under the Insurance Act, 1938 will not be entertained under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . (f) IRDA will appoint adjudicating officers in inquire/adjudicate violations of
 the Act, Rules and Regulations by insurers, insurance intermediaries and
 insurance agents and levy penalties as provided for in the Act. (g) An Insurance Appellate Tribunal (IAT) on the lines of the one under the SEBI Act should be constituted having its sitting as a principal bench in
 New Delhi and by circuit in the four major metropolises. The IAT will
 hear appeals against decisions of the GRAs and the Adjudicating Officers
 decision of the IAT will be final. The IAT will also entertain appeals
 against the decisions/orders of the IRDA concerning insurers, insurance
 intermediaries and insurance agents including those pertaining to
 registration and licensing. (h) There will lie a further statutory appeal to the Supreme Court from the
 decision of the IAT on the lines of s.15 Z of the SEBI Act. The appeal will
 have to be filed within 60 days of the decision of the IAT. (i) There will be a clause expressly excluding the jurisdiction of civil courts
 in disputes arising under the Insurance Act, 1938 . However, this will not
 include claims/ disputes arising under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and
 the Marine Insurance Act 1963. (j) On the lines of ss.41 & 42 of the LIC Act, 1956, the decision of the GRA
 may be made enforceable in any civil court within the local limits of
 whose jurisdiction the decree holder actually and voluntarily resides. (k) With a view to encouraging alternative dispute resolution (ADR)
 mechanisms, it may be provided that a claimant may be first referred to an
 ADR mechanism, which would include mediation and/ or conciliation,
 and only if that fails, should the matter been placed before GRA. Further,
 the GRA may itself refer the pending dispute before it to an ADR process
 at any stage of the proceedings, with the consent of the parties. 8.7.13 The above framework of a grievance redressal mechanism is a tentative
one and will require to be further developed and modified after consultation with all
concerned parties. 8.8 Penal provisions

8.8.1 Ss.102-105C prescribe penalties for contravention of or default in complying with
the provisions of the Act; false statement in document; wrongfully withholding or
obtaining any property; offences under the Act committed by companies and failure to
comply with the provisions of ss.2B and 32C . 8.8.2 S.105C prescribes a penalty for failure to comply with s.32C . It has been
suggested that this section be amended to indicate a minimum penalty to be imposed
so as to make the provisions deterrent in nature. Further these penalties will be
determined and levied after adjudication/inquiry by Adjudicating Officers as stated
in para 8.7.10. 8.9 Miscellaneous provisions. Investments
8.9.1.1 It requires consideration whether the details of investments provided in ss. 27 , 27A and 27B ought to be shifted to the Regulations framed by the IRDA even while
retaining the essential guidelines in the substantial provisions of these sections.
Alternatively, whether the existing provisions relating to investments under ss. 27 , 27A and 27B be retained with an additional safeguard that prior approval of RBI should be
sought in drawing up the list of such investments by the IRDA. 8.9.1.2 It requires to be consider whether the provisions pertaining to investments
and maintenance of solvency margin should be equally applicable to the public
sector insurance companies including Life Insurance Corporation of India and GIC
and its subsidiaries. Winding up by the court ( S. 53 )
8.9.2 The Insurance Act provides for winding up by the court under s.53 . The Act does
not allow voluntary winding up by the insurance company except on the grounds
mentioned in s.54 . It also provides for partial winding up if the scheme for the same is 132 confirmed by the court under s.58 . The provisions of s.53 enables the court to pass orders
for winding up of an insurance company not only as per the provisions of the Companies
Act but also if a petition is filed under sub- section 2 of this section after obtaining the
previous sanction of the court in this behalf by one tenth shareholders of the company or
not less than fifty policy holders. 8.9.3 This section also enables the Authority under clause (b) of sub-section (2) to
apply for winding up if (i) the company fails to deposit or keep deposited the amount
required under s.7 or 98, or (ii) the company has continued failure to comply with the
requirements of this Act or contravention of any provisions of this act for a period of
three months after notice of such contravention or non-compliance has been conveyed to
it by the Authority, or (iii) returns furnished by the company or investigations made
under this Act reveal that the company is or is deemed to be insolvent, or (iv)
continuance of the company is prejudicial to the interest of policy holders or public
interest generally. 8.9.4 These very grounds stated above in (i) - (iii) on which the authority has been
empowered to apply for winding under this section are also some of the grounds for
which it can cancel the registration of any insurance company under section3(4) .On
cancellation of registration, the company cannot carry on insurance business. Hence
provisions under clauses (i), (ii)and (iii) of sub-section (2) (b) may be omitted. However,
clause (iv) may be retained. 8.9.5 In sub-section (1) of s.53 , reference to Companies Act, 1913 be substituted by Companies Act 1956 (Act VII of 1956). 8.9.6 In sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of sub-section (2) of s. 53 , the words "or s.98" are to
be omitted. Voluntary winding up ( S.54 )
8.9.7 S.54 excludes voluntary winding up of insurance companies except for the
purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction of the company or it cannot continue its
business because of its liabilities. But amalgamation or reconstruction of the company
does not presuppose winding up and interests of the shareholders are considered and
protected under the scheme approved by the Authority. While in the case of winding up,
the process is altogether different. Therefore, s.54 may be amended to the effect that
insurance companies should not be wound up except on the ground that by reason
of its liabilities it cannot continue its business. Scheme for partial winding up ( S. 58 )
8.9.8 Section 58 provides for partial winding up of insurance companies. In its sub-
sections (3) and (4), reference to the Companies Act, 1913 may be substituted by the Companies Act 1956. 8.9.9 In sub-section (4), reference of s.12 of the Companies Act 1913 be substituted by
'15' and sections 15 and 16 be replaced by s.17 of the Companies Act 1956. Management by administrator (Ss.52A-52G)

8.9.10 Section 52A to 52G deal with the management by an administrator. These
sections were added in 1950 in order to protect the interest of policyholders of life
insurance. 8.9.11 Section 52A provides that, if the Authority has reason to believe that an
insurer is acting in a manner prejudicial to the interest of holders of life insurance
policies, then the Authority may after giving the insurer an opportunity to be heard make
a report to the Central Government and the central government may after considering the
report, appoint an administrator to manage the affairs of the insurer. 8.9.12 IRDA is a high powered body and competent to decide and act in a given
situation. Hence, it is suggested that Authority after giving an opportunity to the
insurer and after taking into consideration the interest of policy holders, is of the
opinion that it is necessary and proper to appoint an administrator to manage the
affairs of the insurer carrying on life insurance business, the Authority may, by an
order, do so. The administrator shall receive such remuneration as the Authority may
direct. The Authority may appoint some other person as an administrator if the one
appointed earlier is not able to manage the affairs of the insurer. 8.9.13 In the context of the proposed suggestions, sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of s.52A may be amended to give effect to the aforesaid proposals. 8.9.14 At present, the provisions of s.52A do not mention the period for which an
administrator will initially be appointed. It may be appropriate if the limit in this regard is
provided in the statute subject to the proposed provisions of s.52 D.
Powers of the administrator respecting property ( S. 52BB )
8.9.15 S. 52BB (9) vests in the administrator powers of the civil court. Sub-section (1)
provides that an administrator may, pending the institution of proceedings against a
person, who has rendered himself liable to be proceeded against under s.106 , by order in
writing, prohibit him or any other person from transferring or disposing of any property
which, in his opinion, would be liable to attachment. 8.9.16 Sub section (2) provides for an appeal against such orders of the
administrator to Central Government. It would be appropriate if the Authority is made the
appellate authority under this sub-section. The words "Central Government" occurring in
sub-sections (2) and (3) are to be replaced by the word "Authority". 8.9.17 As aforesaid, the administrator would be exercising powers of a civil
court. He should, therefore, be well qualified and competent to exercise such
powers. A provision to this effect may be added to s.52 (A) . Termination of appointment of administrator ( S.52 D)

8.9.18 In consequence of aforementioned suggestions proposed in sections 52A and 52BB , the provisions of s.52 D would have to be amended as follows: Penalty for withholding documents of property from Administrator ( S. 52 F)

8.9.19 Section 52 F provides punishment of six months imprisonment or fine
extending of six months to Rs. 1000/- or with both for withholding documents of
property of an administrator. It is desirable that punishment of fine under this section
may be enhanced to Rs. 5000/-. Protection of Action ( S. 52G )
8.9.20 Section 52 G provides for the protection of action taken by the central
government in good faith under sections 52A , 52B or 52D and by the administrator under s.52A , 52B or 52B or 52C. 8.9.21 It is suggested that the protection extended to central government, at
present should be extended to the Authority because, as proposed the action may be
taken under the aforesaid sections by the Authority. Therefore, amendments may be
made in these sections. Finality of decision appointing Administrator ( S. 52E )
8.9.22 In the backdrop of the amendments suggested in s.52A , the provisions of s.52 E need consequent changes, viz., the words "Central Government" are to be replaced
by the word "Authority". Powers of the central government to acquire the undertaking of insurers in certain
cases ( Section 52H to 52N )

8.9.23 Section 52 H provides that the central government may acquire the
undertaking of any insurer if the Authority reports to it that the insurer has persistently
failed in complying with the directions given to it by the Authority under s.34 , 34F or
34G or any order under s.34E or is managing its affairs in a manner detrimental to the
public interest. 8.9.24 Section 52-I empowers the central government to prepare a scheme for
acquisition of undertaking of any insurer and enumerates the powers for the same as also
provides for the publication of such scheme if so made. s.52J provides for the 135 compensation to be paid to the acquired insurer by the Central Government and if the
amount of compensation is not acceptable to the insurer, then it may request the central
government to refer the matter to the tribunal, constituted under s.52K by the central
government for this purpose, which shall have the powers of civil court (s.52L) and
regulate its own procedure (s.52M). Special provisions for dissolution of acquired
insurers is set out in s.52N . 8.9.25 In view of the policy of permitting privatisation and moving away from
nationalization, these powers of acquisition are no longer relevant and it is suggested that ss.52H to 52N be deleted. Return of deposits (s.59)
8.9.26 S.59 provides for the return of deposits made under s.7 or 98 in case of
insolvency or winding up of insurance companies. The words and digits "or s.98" Further, in clause (b) of s.7(9B) , the words "Central Government" should
 be replaced by the word "Authority". Refund of Deposits:- Submission of returns: (2) The statements referred to in sub-section (1) shall be signed in the case
 of a company by the chairman and two directors and by the principal
 officer of the company, and if the company has a managing director by that
 director, in case of insurance cooperative society by ____________: S. 28(3) needs to be recast. The words" August" and "June" are then to be S.28(3) replaced by the words 'November' and 'September' respectively. S.28 A & Submission of return of investments: Prohibition on giving of loans: The words "contained in Part I of the Fourth Schedule and in S.13 conformity with the requirements of Part II of that Schedule" Submission of returns: S.27 (2) (a) , (b) & (6) The reference of s.98 in clause (a) of s.27 (2) may be omitted. The provisions of s.27 (2) (b) including its proviso may be
 repealed as being irrelevant. The provisions of s.27 (6) also have become irrelevant and
 need repeal because they deal with the insurers domiciled
 outside India. Clause (b) of s.27A (1) should be deleted as being irrelevant as S.27 A providing for securities by the Government of United
 Kingdom. In s.27A (1) (n) , the words "or in any other country" may be
 deleted as Schedule I and Schedule II of Investment
 Regulations exclude expressly immovable property situated in
 other countries for the purpose of approved investments. This
 would remove inconsistency between the Act and Regulations.
 Moreover, such a repeal would be in consonance with the tenor
 of s.27C . The provisions of sub-section (12) should be repealed as it
 requires the insurer in existence at the commencement of Insurance Act 1950 to submit within 90 days from such
 commencement report about investments made in
 contravention of s.27A . Such insurers are no more in existence. S. 27 B In sub-section (16), the meaning of the term "assets" has been
 described for different classes of business referring to assets
 shown in the forms prescribed in part II of the first schedule.
 The first schedule has been repealed by the Insurance
 (Amendment) Act, 2002 . Hence provisions of this sub-section
 have become irrelevant. Moreover, this term has been defined
 in Para 2 (6a) of the Regulations relating to investments.
 Therefore, the sub-section is required to be repealed. In s.27B (1) (i) , the reference of the words, "or in any other
 country" may be deleted in view of the provisions of Schedule 155 II of the Investment Regulations which exclude expressly first
 mortgage on immovable property situated out of India. In clause (i) of sub-section (1), the reference of the words, "or
 in any other country where the insurer is carrying an insurance
 business" are to be deleted for the reasons assigned in respect
 of similar provision in s.27A . Sub-section (4), which provides for insurers domiciled outside S.28 (4) India, is redundant, hence to be repealed. As the partnership from cannot transact insurance business, the S.29 reference to a firm or partner in sub section (1) should be
 omitted. References to chief agent or special agent in sub-section (3)(b)
 and the 'Explanation' may be deleted, so also sub-clauses (i)
 and (ii) of clause (b) of sub-section (3) dealing exclusively
 with chief agent and special agent respectively. Similarly, in
 sub-section (6) reference to chief agent should be omitted. The provisions of sub-section (4) which imposes an obligation
 on the Authority to notify about the loan or advances at the
 commencement of the Act of 1950 has obviously become
 obsolete, hence to be repealed. The provisions of sub-section (4) which imposes an obligation
 on the Authority to notify about the loan or advances at the
 commencement of the Act of 1950 has obviously become
 obsolete, hence to be repealed. The system of chief agent, principal agent and special is no S.31B more in existence. Hence the possibility of remuneration being
 paid to any person other than insurance agent or intermediary
 does not arise. Therefore, necessary deletions are required to 156 be made. The insurers are prohibited from employing the managing S.32 agents. Under the provisions of s.32 (1) . Subsequent sub-
 sections (2) and (3) dealing with their employment and
 remuneration have, obviously, become redundant as also
 because of their transitional nature. Hence, sub-sections (2)
 and (3) need omission. The publication of the report in sub-section (7) envisages a S.33 (7) prior notice to the insurer. Since sub-s.(6) contemplates the
 availability of the report to the insurer and a reasonable
 opportunity to respond to it, there is no need to give any further
 notice. Therefore sub-section (7) can be deleted. The words "any person or transferred to" in s.35 (1) seem to be S.35 (1) redundant and hence should be omitted. In the proviso to s.35 (3) , the reference of the words and S.35 (3) figures "or ss.7 and 8 of the Indian Life Assurance Companies
 Act, 1912)" are required to be omitted as being redundant. Reference to principal, chief or special agents in sub- section
S.40
 (1) needs deletion. The words "after the expiry of six months
 from the commencement of this Act." are to be omitted as
 being irrelevant. The provisions of Sub-section (2) provides the limit of the
 commission to be paid to an agent in respect of the life
 insurance policy effected through him before 31st Day of
 December, 1950 in respect of life insurance policy and of
 general insurance policy before the commencement of
 Insurance Amendment Act, 1950. Obviously, the provisions of
 this sub section have become redundant especially in view of
 the second proviso with this sub-section, hence to be repealed. Provisions of sub-sections (2) and (4) providing for payment of S.40A commission to special agents of life insurance business and
 principal agents of general business respectively have become
 irrelevant and redundant in view of the legislative changes
 made during the last five decades or so. It is, therefore,
 suggested that these sub-sections may be deleted. The provisions of S.64 UF providing for assets and liabilities S.64 UF to UI
 of General Insurance Council to vest in the Advisory
 Committee after the commencement of the Amendment Act,
 1968 need to be repealed as the assets and liabilities have
 already been vested in TAC. The provisions of S.64 UG also need to be repealed because its
 provisions have become irrelevant as all the contracts/
 agreements made by the Tariff Committee before 1968 are
 dealt by the Advisory committee as also the suits or legal
 proceedings filed by or against Tariff committee after 1968
 Amendment are being dealt by TAC. Similarly, provisions of S.64UH protecting the interest of the
 employees of Tariff Committee who were in employment
 before the Amendment Act 1968 need to be repealed because
 all those employees are now the employees of the Advisory
 Committee and others, who could not, should have availed the
 benefits mentioned under this section. The provisions of S.64 UI obligates every person, who is in
 possession or custody of the property of the Tariff Committee
 or is in possession of documents relating to such property, to
 deliver those to the Advisory Committee has become
 redundant and requires to be repealed. Since the regional committees constituted by the TAC are not S.64 UJ (2) to (6)
 functioning, sub-sections (2) to (6) may be deleted. S.64 UM (1) needs to be recast. In sub-section (1) (A), the S.64 UM
 words " after the expiry of a period of one year from the
 commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1968 " are
 to be deleted as being irrelevant. Again, sub-section (1) (B) should be deleted as its provisions
 have become irrelevant in view of the provisions of sub-section
 (1) (BA) inserted by the IRDA Act which also takes care of the
 licenses issued to surveyor before the Act of 1999. Sub-section (5) needs deletion as being irrelevant

 The provisions of sub-section (1) are now irrelevant as S.64 VA
 providing for the insurers before the commencement of the IRDA Act, 1999 , hence may be deleted. In consequence, sub-
 sections (2), (5) and (6) would have to be deleted. The whole of Part III pertaining to Provident Societies is no
S.65 to 94
 longer relevant and ss.65 to 94 contained in this Part require to 160 be deleted. The whole of Part IV relating to Mutual Insurance Companies
S.95 to 101
 and Co-operative Life Insurance Societies are also no longer
 relevant and ss.95 to 101 contained in this Part require to be
 deleted. In view of the proposed deletion of s.48 the corresponding rule S.114 (f) making power of the central government in s.114 (f) is no
 longer relevant and accordingly may be deleted. Further, Rules 13, 14 and 15 of the Insurance Rules 1939 may
 also be deleted. APPENDIX-IV

 Proposals with regard to merger of provisions of the IRDA Act, 1999 with the Insurance Act, 1938 [Para 3.1.3] Provision of the IRDA Act, 1999 Provision of Insurance Act 1938 to be
 merged with S.2 (Definitions) Definition clause of Insurance Act Chapter II dealing with establishment and
incidental matters of authority (ss.3 - 12)

Chapter IV dealing with duties, powers
and functions of the authority (s.14) These provisions may be bunched together
 and placed in the Insurance Act as Part I-A to
Chapter V dealing with grants by central
government, IRDA fund, accounts and be titled as 'Insurance Regulatory and
audit (ss.15 - 17)
 Development Authority'. Chapter VI dealing with powers of
central government (ss.18 - 23 & 25) S.24 providing the central government
with power to make Rules. S.26 empowering Authority to make
Regulations. These provisions may be merged in ss.114 and 114-A of the Insurance Act. S.27 requiring laying of Rules and
Regulations before Parliament. S.28 - not barring application of other To be shifted to Insurance Act, 1938 after
laws s.114-A. 162 APPENDIX-V

Changes in relation to the Powers and functions of the IRDA with regard to grant of
 registration and refusal, cancellation, suspension, and renewal of registration. The particulars of the documents/ statements required
 to be submitted to the IRDA for the purpose of
 obtaining registration, could be spelt out in the
 Regulations made by the IRDA. Accordingly, it is suggested that S.3 (2) be recast as
 under: (remaining portion to be retained)

 It is also proposed that there should be a time limit
 within which, if all other requirements/ formalities
 have been complied with by the applicant, the IRDA
 should take a decision in regard to the grant/ refusal of
 the certificate of registration. It is proposed that this
 time limit should be a period of 60 days from the
 date of completion of all formalities, upon the
 expiry of which, the insurer would be deemed to
 have been granted the certificate of registration if
 no decision is taken by the IRDA within that time. S.94A (2) second proviso It is proposed that with a view to providing a level
 playing field with other corporate insurers, the
 proviso enabling exemption from certain provisions
 in their applicability to cooperative societies
 carrying on insurance business should be deleted. Alternatively, if the power has to be retained, it
 should be ensured that it cannot be for all
 provisions of the Act. The exemption will have to be
 only in relation to select provisions of the Act and that
 too for reasons and writing. Further, it is proposed that this power should be
 with the central government and not the Authority. In regard to departments, organisations and
 associations carrying on insurance business without
 obtaining certificate of registration from the IRDA
 (i.e., Army welfare associations, Postal insurance etc.),
 it is suggested that such departments or associations be
 brought within the purview of the regulatory regime
 but requirements of capital and deposits may be either
 relaxed or suspended in such cases. S.3 (2C) Appeal against refusal of registration:- The word 'December' may be replaced by the word
 'March' as a similar change for this effect has been
 made by the 1999 Amendment. S.3A (2) The determination of the renewal fee for registration
 provided under s.3A (2) referring to the percentage of
 premium income as also the amount specified in s.3A
 (2)(i) requires reconsideration. The suggestion is that
 the same should be reduced. S.3A (3) The provisions for making deposits in respect of the
 renewal fee in the Reserve Bank of India has both
 been made in s.3A (3) of the Act and regulation 21 of
 Chapter IV of the Regulations. It is suggested that the
 statutory provision may be amended so as to provide - S.3A (4) The provisions of sub-section (4) of s.3A provide for
 an appeal to be made to the Central Government
 against the order of the Authority imposing a penalty
 on the insurer. Here, the penalty is in the nature of the 168 late fee and the ceiling limit has been spelt out in this
 very provision. Hence, the provision of appeal seems
 to be irrelevant. It is suggested that amendments may
 be made in this regard. S.3A (5) For every renewal the compliance of all requirements
 for fresh registration must be insisted upon apart from
 compliance of S.32B and 32C regarding insurance in
 rural and social sector. Accordingly, S.3A (5) may be
 amended. APPENDIX-VI

 Changes in relation to the powers and functions of the IRDA other than those with
 regard to grant of registration etc. set out in Appendix- V above
 [Para 3.1.6]

 Provision of the Insurance
 Change proposed
 Act, 1938 S.33 (1) - Investigation by The provisions of s.33 does not lay down standards or
IRDA into affairs of insurer criteria (grounds) to guide the Authority to cause
 investigation judiciously. In absence of such criteria, the
 power may be misused for ulterior motive. Hence the
 provisions of sub-section (1) may be amended by
 adding the words "if it considers expedient to do so" S.35 (3) - Requirement of The provisions of sub-clause (c) of s.35 (3) states that
preparation of actuarial actuarial reports are to be prepared as per the
reports requirements of Part II of Fourth and Fifth Schedules. As the Fourth Schedule has been repealed by the Insurance (Amendment) Act 2002, clause (c) of s.35 (3) may be amended by deleting the reference of Schedule
 IV and to provide that actuarial reports be prepared
 in conformity with the regulations made by the
 Authority. S.36 - Approval of The Authority is empowered under s.36 of the Act to
amalgamation by IRDA approve the arrangement of amalgamation after giving
 adequate opportunity of hearing to the directors and
 policy holders who desire so and to pass consequential
 orders to give effect to the amalgamation including the 172 disposal of deposits made under ss. 7 or 98. S.98, which
 provides for mutual insurance companies and co- operative life insurance societies, has become redundant.
 Therefore, the words "or s.98" may be omitted. Similar
 omission is required in clause (c) of the proviso to this
 section. The provisions of amalgamation may be made
 applicable to general insurance business, as well. If
 this is done, then the words "life policy" in s.36 (1) would have to be replaced by the words 'of any kind of
 policy'. The word 'and' in the marginal note be replaced by the
 word 'or'. S.37A (2) - Power of IRDA The contents of sub-section (2) which enumerates the
to prepare scheme of clauses which the scheme should contain can be
amalgamation made part of the Regulations. S.37A (4) - Central The following may be added in s.37 (A) (4) after the
government is specify scheme words "in this behalf". of amalgamation sanctioned
 "in the Official Gazette with such constitution, with such
by it
 property, powers, rights, interests, authorities and
 privileges and with such liabilities, duties and
 obligations as may be specified in the order." The following provisions may also be incorporated to
 protect the interest of policy holders or shareholders
 etc. as provided in the Companies Act : S.42 (1) - Licensing of Consistent with the Regulations the Authority should
insurance agents itself authorise officers of the insurers who can issue
 or renew licences. Subject to changes made in the Regulations in this
 behalf from time to time by the IRDA, the fee limit for
 issuing of licence should be increased beyond the
 present limit of Rs.250/-. S.42 (2) - Number of insurers Consistent with the Regulations, sub-section (2) of
for whom a person can act as S.42 should be amended to provide that an agent can
agent act for "only one life insurer and/ or one non-life
 ins rer" S.42 (3) - Licence renewal fee Licence renewal fee and penalty may be increased
and penalty from the present limits of Rs.250/- and Rs.100/- respectively and be made subject to further changes to
 be specified in the Regulations. S.42 (4) - Disqualifications The disqualification enumerated under Regulation
for acting as insurance agent (8) (j) should be incorporated in S.42 (4) . Further, used to be considered by the nationality of an
 insurance agent should be expressly mentioned as a
 requisite qualification. It must be provided in Regulation 3 (2) in addition to
 satisfy the requisite qualification, licence will be issued
 only if the person does not attract any of the
 disqualifications under S.42 (4) . The provision in Regulation 8 (j) (ii) that an
 insurance agents cannot apply for a fresh licence for
 a period of 5 years after cancellation, should be
 incorporated in the Act, preferably in S.42 (4) itself. S.42 (5) - Power to cancel Consistent with the Regulations in this behalf, it is
licence appropriate that s.42 (5) be amended to provide that a
 designated person authorised by the IRDA can
 exercise the power to cancel a licence. Any person so
 aggrieved may file an appeal against such cancellation
 to the appropriate authority. Regulation 9 requires to be amended to empower the
 designated officer to cancel the licence of agent who 175 deliberately contravenes the provisions of the Act. S.42 (6) - Issue of duplicate The designated officer instead of the Authority may be
licence authorized to issue duplicate licence. S.42 (7) - Punishment for The present fine of Rs.500/- on a person acting as agent
acting as agent without without licence and Rs.1000/- on an insurer appointing a
licence person to act as such are inadequate and require to be
 enhanced. S.42D - Licence to The power to issue licence should be exercised by an
intermediary or insurance officer authorised by the IRDA and not the IRDA itself.
intermediary S.42D (1) proviso (a) In view of the inconsistency with 42D (5), it is proposed
 that clause (a) of the proviso to S.42D (1) may be
 amended so as to substitute words in figures '(5) of this
 section' in place of words and figures '(4) of s.42 '. S.42D (8) & (9) - Fine to be These required to be specified.
imposed for contravention S.64 UM - Issue of licence to The provision requires to be amended to expressly
surveyors/ loss assessors empower the Authority to issue licence on the same
 grounds of qualifications and disqualifications as
 specified in S.42 (1) & (2) for insurance agents. The ground found in Regulation 8 (4) for cancellation of
 licence of a surveyor who fails discharge duties and
 responsibilities in a satisfactory and professional manner
 or violate the code of conduct prescribed by the
 Regulations requires to be incorporated in S.64 UM (1)
 (G). A provision for suspension of licence, as provided in Regulation 8 (4) should be incorporated in the Act. S.64 UM (1A) At present there is no transparency on appointment of
 surveyor/ loss assessor by general insurers. Public sector
 general insurers, by and large, appoint some privileged
 surveyors with some understanding with respective
 department/ staff/ officer/ manager. By an appropriate
 amendment, this should be done away with. General
 insurers should publish a list of appointed surveyors in
 notice board/Web Sites regularly indicating fees paid to
 be to the surveyor/loss assessor. The principal Act does not provide about the functions
 to be performed by a surveyors or loss assessor, but
 mandates them to comply with the code of conduct in
 respect of their duties and responsibilities as provided in Regulation 13 (2) . Hence a provision in regard to the
 functions to be performed by a surveyors or loss
 assessor may be incorporated after sub-section (1A)
 as follows: It is suggested that the Authority should exercise the 177 power under sub-section (3) to call for independent
 report from an approved surveyor upon receiving a
 complaint. There is also a suggestion for
 appointment of a second surveyor or loss assessor,
 if any complaint is received by the Authority. It
 would be appropriate if the power to settle the
 claims under this section are exercised by an
 adjudicating officer to be appointed by the
 Authority. It has been suggested that appointment and payment to
 surveyors/loss assessors should be on rotation and
 controlled by IRDA with the help of respective State
 Chapter of Institute of Surveyor/ Loss Assessor so that
 surveyors/loss assessors are independent of general
 insurers and need not to appease the respective
 department/ staff/ officer/ manager for getting
 appointment and payment. There is a suggestion that to set aside the written test for
 issuing licence to any person to act as a surveyor
 because the new trainees are well qualified technical
 graduates. Moreover, the candidates have to go through
 one year training under a senior surveyor. S.44 - Power to call for The provisions of this section is to be recast because the
information system of principal agent, chief agent or special agent is
 no more in existence and in consequence of which, the
 repeal of ss.42B and 42C has already been proposed. Hence, in this section, wherever there is a reference to
 the principal agent or special agent or chief agent, or
 references to ss.42B and 42C , such references require 178 omission. There is a suggestion for the deletion for the
 section itself. S.47A - Power of IRDA to The limit of the claim may be enhanced to Rs.5,000/-. of an insurance company should be extended to cover a
 situation where the insurer is a cooperative society.