- 1. Above two cases are subject matter of this order. 2. In both the cases, short but interesting question of law
has been raised by the counsels for accused persons i.e whether
more than one FIR can be registered on the basis of one complaint? 3. Briefly stated facts of prosecution cases are that on
September 01, 2000, General Manager named Kamalkar M. Shet
made the following written complaint to the S.P of CBI, New Delhi:- CREDIT FACILITIES EXTENDED BY OUR PARLIAMENT
 STREET BRANCH, NEW DELHI AND CHANDNI CHOWK
 BRANCH, DELHI. 1. M/S JUNIPER JEWELLERY (P) LIMITED : CREDIT LIMIT : As per the systems and procedures of the Bank, Lawyer's
 Scrutiny Report (LSR) on the title deeds was obtained from Ms.
 Rekha Anand, our Panel Advocate. The documents of the title
 deeds were deposited in the Bank on 10.6.98 and EMT was put
 through. The party had availed financial assistance from the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 5 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others Bank from time to time. Subsequently, the conduct of the
 account was not satisfactory and became sticky with huge
 liability. Hence, the branch had verified the property documents
 with the Sub-Registrar Office in July 99 and it came to light that
 Shri Raj Malhotra is not the true owner of the property and the
 property was sold to one Shri Rai Bahadur Chunilal by DLF
 United Pvt. Limited and the documents of title deeds deposited
 in the bank were found to be fake. Hence, the borrower Company in connivance with the outsiders
 have submitted forged property documents as Collateral
 Security for the Bank finance. 2. M/S KAMAYANI FINE JEWELLERY : CREDIT LIMIT : Rs. 150.00 LACS
 PRESENT LIABILITY : Rs. 189.37 lacs

 The subject firm, during 1998 was enjoying credit facilities of
 cash credit limits of Rs. 20.00 lacs and ILC limit of Rs. 20.00
 lacs at our Chandni Chowk branch, Delhi. The limits were
 sanctioned by the branch on 12.5.98 and against the prime
 securities of gold, jewellery and precious stones and on the
 collateral security of immovable properties offered by the party.
 Subsequently, the account was transferred to our Parliament
 Street branch on 8.9.98. Our Parliament street branch had
 enhanced the OCC limit of Rs. 75.00 lacs on 8.9.98 on the
 existing securities. The details of the property documents offered by the party are : Both the properties were mortgaged to the Bank at our Chandni
 Chowk, Delhi branch and further EMT was taken at Parliament
 Street branch, New Delhi for enhanced limits after getting LSR
 from the panel advocate of the Bank, i.e. Ms. Rekha Anand. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others On verification of the mortgaged properties at Sub-Register's
 Office by the branch during Aug '1999, it came to light that in
 respect of Ist property, the certified copy of the sale deed was
 obtained from the office of Registrar of Assurances and found
 that there was major discrepancies in the documents produced
 by the party to the branch and the property stood in the
 individual name of Shri J. D. Sharma and on enquiry of the
 Halqua Patwari, it is observed that the property is an
 agricultural land and the persons mentioned are not the owners
 of the property and the documents submitted to the bank are
 the fake ones. Hence, it came to light that the panel advocate,
 Smt. Rekha Anand did not seem to have verified the revenue
 records. In respect of the property at N-106, Greater Kailash-I, New
 Delhi in the name of Shri Sham Lal Nayar, there is no such
 document/title deed registered in any Sub-Registrar Office at
 Delhi and enquiries at the given address revealed that Shri
 Sham Lal Nayar had already expired in 1992-93 and the said
 property was already sold to some builder. Hence, someone
 has impersonated as Sham Lal Nayar. As such the mortgaged
 document is a fake one and fraud and forgery is observed in
 getting the bank finance. 3. M/S ANAMIKA ENTERPRISES : LIMIT : 150.00 LACS
 PRESENT LIABILITY : 164.75 Lacs

 The party was sanctioned various credit limits by the branch at
 our Chandni Chowk Delhi branch on 30.11.98 to the tune of Rs.
 150 lacs for export business. The firm offered documents of
 title deeds of : On obtaining LCR from the Bank's Panel Advocate, Ms. Rekha
 Anand on the aforesaid properties as per systems and
 procedures, the properties were mortgaged to the bank on CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 7 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others putting through EMT on 31.10.98. Subsequently, in Aug '1999,
 when the branch conducted verification of title deeds and
 inspection of the properties, the following facts came to light : 2(E)/2000/CBI/SPE/SIU-IX, New Delhi; RC-3(E)/2000/CBI/SPE/SIU-
IX, New Delhi and RC-4(E)/2000/CBI/SPE/SIU-IX, New Delhi. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others 5. After completing investigation, CBI had filed three
separate charge-sheet in the above said cases. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others 6. Learned Counsels appearing for accused persons
sagaciously submitted that a written complaint was addressed to SP
of CBI on September 01, 2000 alleging that V.K. Jha and Nandita
Bakshi were Managing Director and Director of M/s Juniper Jewellery
Pvt. Ltd. respectively. It was also alleged that Nandita Bakshi was
also proprietor of another firm named M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery
whereas Shreya Jha d/o V.K. Jha was proprietor of another firm
named M/s Anamika Enterprises. It was further alleged that the above
said persons being the Managing Director, Director and Proprietor of
the said firms approached the complainant bank for certain credit
limits at different branches. At the time of taking the limits, they had
played some fraud/forgery with the bank and caused pecuniary loss
to the bank to the tune of ` 596.11 lacs. On receipt of the said
complaint, CBI had registered three different FIRs i.e. bearing RC No.
RC 2E/2000/CBI/SPE/SIU-IX/New Delhi, RC 3E/2000/CBI/SPE/SIU-
IX/New Delhi and RC 4E/2000/CBI/SPE/SIU-IX/New Delhi. P.C., police is required to register an FIR on receipt of every
information disclosing the commission of any cognizable offence. It
was contended that by giving the above complaint, bank had
disclosed the commission of a cognizable offence, which resulted
pecuniary loss to the tune of ` 596.11 lacs to the bank, thus bank
had furnished only one information disclosing the commission of a
cognizable offence, which resulted loss to the bank, thus CBI was
bound to register only one FIR under Section 154 Cr. P.C. It was CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 10 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others argued that under Section 154 Cr. P.C, no discretion has been given
to the police to bifurcate the information at the stage of recording the
FIR, thus CBI had no jurisdiction to bifurcate the information furnished
in the complaint by lodging three separate FIRs. (ii) It was further astutely contended that since in the
instant case, no other information except the written complaint dated
September 01, 2000 had been received to the CBI, there was no
occasion for the CBI to register three separate FIRs. (iii) It was vigorously argued that the second and
subsequent FIR are not permissible under law as the same amount
violation of Article 21 of Constitution of India. In support of their
contentions, counsels strongly placed reliance on the judgments, T.T.
Anthony Vs State of Kerala and others, AIR 2001 SC 2637 and
Amit Bhai Anil Chandra Shah Vs CBI and others (2013) 6 SCC 348. (iv) It was perspicaciously contended that in the said
cases, the second FIR was registered on receipt of some further
information whereas in the present case, no further information was
received to the CBI, thus present case is on much better footing. 7. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor refuted the said
contentions by vigorously arguing that in the facts and circumstances
of the cases at hand, the above judgments are not applicable. It was CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 11 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others further vehemently argued that no doubt single complaint was
received to the CBI but the said complaint relates to three different
offences, which were committed at three different times, thus there is
no illegality, if CBI had registered three separate FIRs qua each
offence. It was further contended that there is no legal embargo to
register separate FIR for a separate offence, thus there is no
substance in the submissions raised by the counsel for accused
persons. (i) To support her contentions, learned Public Prosecutor
placed reliance on two judgments Babu Bhai Vs State of Gujarat
and others (2010) 12 SCC 254 and Surender Kaushik and other
Vs State of UP and others, Criminal Appeal No. 305 of 2013
announced by Apex Court on February 14, 2013. It was contended
that in both the said cases, Supreme Court upheld the second FIR
where it relates to separate and distinct offence. It was further argued
that since in the instant case all three offences, mentioned in the
written complaint, were separate and distinct, thus there is no
illegality in registration of second and third FIR. 8. I have heard rival submissions advanced by counsel for
both the parties, perused the record and case law cited by them
carefully and gave my thoughtful consideration to their contentions. 9. From the submissions advanced by counsel for the
parties short but interesting question emerges whether the act of CBI CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 12 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others to register separate FIR on the basis of one written complaint is
permissible under Section 154 of Code of Criminal Procedure or not? 10. Before proceeding further, I deem it appropriate to
refer to relevant portion of Section 154 Cr. P.C which read as under:- (3) Any person, aggrieved by a refusal on the
 part of an officer in charge of a police station to
 record the information referred to in sub-section
 (1) may send the substance of such information,
 in writing and by post, to the Superintendent of
 Police concerned who, if satisfied that such
 information discloses the commission of a
 cognizable offence, shall either investigate the
 case himself or direct an investigation to be
 made by any police officer subordinate to him, in
 the manner provided by this Code, and such
 officer shall have all the powers of an officer in CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 13 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others charge of the police station in relation to that
 offence. (emphasis supplied) 11. Bare perusal of Section 154 (1) Cr. P.C makes it clear
that essential ingredients to record the First Information Report are as
under : - 12. Indisputably in the instant case, the information was
furnished by the General Manager of the Bank in writing through his
letter dated September 01, 2000. It is also undisputed fact that the
subject matter of the said written information is fraud and forgery to CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 14 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others the tune of ` 596.11 lac committed by the persons with the bank,
whose names are mentioned in the said complaint. (i) Admittedly, in his above complaint, complainant had
also furnished the detail of the fraud/forgery committed by said
persons. After giving the detail of fraud/forgery, complainant alleged
that borrower company/firms in connivance with outside persons have
submitted forged property documents as original title deeds as
collateral security for the bank finance and gained undue pecuniary
benefits to the tune of ` 596.11 lacs from the bank, hence request
was made to register a complaint against the above parties of the
firms/company and investigate the same. (ii) It is undisputed fact that CBI had not received any
other information/complaint/letter except the above from the
complainant or from any other person relating to the fraud/forgery
mentioned in the above said complaint. (iii) Admittedly, the said complaint was received in the
office of CBI on September 01, 2000 itself. On the basis of said
complaint, CBI registered first FIR at about 16:30 hours; second FIR
was registered 17:30 hours and third FIR was registered at 18:30
hours. Thus, within a span of 03:00 hours, CBI had registered three
separate FIR on the basis of above written complaint. (iv) It is pertinent to state that neither there is anything on CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 15 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others record to show that any preliminary inquiry was made before
registration of three FIRs nor there is any such averment. (v) Thus, it becomes clear that CBI had received only one
information disclosing commission of a cognizable offence i.e.
fraud/forgery which caused pecuniary loss to the bank to the tune of
` 596.11 lacs. Hence, in terms of Section 154 Cr. P.C., CBI was
supposed to record one FIR on the basis of said written complaint. 13. Now question arises whether the investigating agency
is empowered to restrain its investigation relating to the
offence/accused mentioned in the complaint only or it may investigate
the matter qua other connected offences and accused? 14. This issue was clarified by the Apex Court in T.T.
Antony Vs State of Kerala (supra) by holding that the officer-in-
charge of the police station has to investigate not merely the
cognizable offence reported in the FIR but also other connected
offences found to have been committed in the course of same
transaction or the same occurrence and file one or more reports as
provided in Section 173 of the Cr. P.C. 15. Now question crop up whether the written complaint
relates to connected offences to have been committed in the course
of same transaction or occurrence or relates to separate or distinct
offences? State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (i) It is pertinent to state that at the time of registration of
the FIR, there was no material with the CBI except the complaint
dated September 01, 2000. (ii) As already stated that complainant informed the CBI
that the persons whose name mentioned in the complaint had
committed forgery/fraud with the bank which caused pecuniary loss to
the bank to the tune of ` 596.11 lacs. It was also alleged that
borrower company/firms in connivance with outside persons had
submitted forged documents with the bank to avail credit limits and
they gained pecuniary benefits to the tune of ` 596.11 lacs. In the
said complaint, there was nothing which may show prima-facie that
complainant had disclosed the information relating to distinct and
separate offences. As per the complaint, all offences were connected
to each other. (iii) Moreover, the question whether the said offences
were distinct and separate or not was the matter of investigation. At
the stage of registration of FIR, there was nothing on record which
may show that the complainant had furnished three separate
information to the CBI relating to three distinct and separate offences. (iv) Surprisingly, in all the FIRs, it is recited that borrower
company/firms had gained undue pecuniary benefits to the tune of
` 596.11 lacs by submitting forged property documents as collateral CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 17 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others security with the bank. This further shows that even at the time of
registration of FIR, investigating agency believed the version of the
complainant as narrated in the written complaint dated September 01,
2000. 16. Now coming to the case law cited by the counsel for
the parties. Firstly, I deem it appropriate to deal with the case law
cited by learned Public Prosecutor. 17. Learned Public Prosecutor strongly placed reliance on
the two judgements namely Surender Kaushik & others v. State of
UP & others (supra) and Babu Bhai vs. State of Gujarat (supra). I
have perused both the judgements carefully. But to my mind, the said
judgements are not helpful to the prosecution in any manner as facts
of both the cases are totally different from the facts of the case at
hand. (i) In case Surender Kaushik & other (supra), first FIR
bearing No. 274/12 was lodged by appellant Surender Malik on May
29, 2012 against Dr. Subhash Gupta and others alleging some
allegations for the offence punishable under Section 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 IPC. Thereafter Dr. Subhash Gupta filed an application before the
Chief Judicial Magistrate, Meerut under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C
alleging some allegations against several persons including Surender
Kaushik. On the basis of directions issued by Learned Magistrate, an
FIR bearing No. 425/12 was lodged on August 21, 2012 for the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 18 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others offence punishable under Section 406 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 504 / 506 IPC.
After considering the case law, Hon'ble Apex Court held as under:- Thus, rival versions in respect of the same
 incident do take different shapes and in that
 event, lodgment of two FIRs is permissible". (emphasis supplied) (ii) As already stated that present case does not relate to
counter case, thus the above judgement is not applicable in the facts
and circumstances of the case at hand. Rather from the above
judgement, it becomes clear that complainant is prohibited to lodge a
fresh complaint against the same accused for an offence for which
investigation has already been commenced. Thus, after registration of
the first FIR, even complainant was not competent to get registered CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 19 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others second FIR on the basis of same complaint. (iii) In case Babu Bhai v. State of Gujarat (supra) first FIR
was lodged on the information provided by Sub-Inspector regarding
some incident that had taken place at 10:00 AM whereas second FIR
was registered on the same day on the complaint of complainant
regarding the same incident. (iv) After considering the case law, Apex Court upheld the
view of High Court, which quashed the second FIR. The relevant
portion is reproduced as under : - 155/2008 which makes it clear that both the
 FIRs pertain to the two crimes committed in the
 same transaction. The scene of offence
 panchnamas establish clearly that the incidents
 in both the cases should not be distinct and
 independent of each other. In fact, it is nobody's
 case that incident relating to CR No. I-155/08
 occurred at Dhedhal Chokdi (Cross-Roads). 20. "In view of the above, we are the considered
 opinion that the High Court reached the correct CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 20 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others conclusion and second FIR C.R. I-155/2008 was
 liable to be quashed". (emphasis supplied) (v) This judgement is not helpful to the prosecution in any
manner. Rather from the said judgement, it is clear if two crimes are
committed in the same transaction, second FIR is not permissible. In
the instant case as per the complaint, accused persons had caused
pecuniary loss to the complainant by committing forgery/fraud while
availing credit limits from the bank from time to time. According to the
complaint, all acts/offences were committed by the accused persons
in the same transaction i.e. in pursuance of same conspiracy. 18. Now coming to the judgements cited by counsel for
accused persons. 19. In T.T. Antony v. State of Kerala & others (supra)
police had opened fired at two places, consequently, two separate
FIRs i.e. Crime No. 353/94 and 354/94 were registered in the same
police station. Since, the incident of police firing gave rise to public
uproar, Government had appointed a Judicial Commission of inquiry,
who had submitted the report against police officials. The report was
accepted by the new Government. On the basis of said report,
recommendation was made to register a case immediately and matter
be investigated by senior officer, accordingly, a fresh FIR i.e. Crime
No. 268/97 was registered in the police station. On the basis of CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 21 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others contentions raised by the parties, four following points arose before
the Apex Court for determination: 1997 which is in the nature of the second FIR
 under Section 154 Cr.PC, is valid and it can form
 the basis of a fresh investigation; (ii) whether the appellants in Appeals Nos. 689
 and 4066 of 2001 [arising out of SLPs (Crl.) Nos.
 1522 and 8840 of 2000] and the respondent in
 Appeals Nos. 690-91 of 2001 [arising out of
 SLPs (Crl.) Nos. 2724-25 of 2000] have
 otherwise made out a case for quashing of
 proceedings in Crime No. 268 of 1997,
 Kuthuparamba Police Station; (iii) what is the effect of the report of Shri K.
 Padmanabhan Commission of Inquiry; and (iv) whether the facts and the circumstances of
 the case justify a fresh investigation by CBI. (i) In para No. 17 to 20 and 27 Apex Court discussed the
legal position, same are reproduced as under: contains four mandates to an officer in charge of
 a police station. The first enjoins that every
 information relating to commission of a
 cognizable offence if given orally shall be
 reduced to writing and the second directs that it
 be read over to the informant; the third requires
 that every such information whether given in
 writing or reduced to writing shall be signed by CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 22 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others the informant and the fourth is that the substance
 of such information shall be entered in the station
 house diary. It will be apt to note here a further
 directive contained in sub-section (1) of Section
 157 Cr.P.C. which provides that immediately on
 receipt of the information the officer in charge of
 the police station shall send a report of every
 cognizable offence to a Magistrate empowered
 to take cognizance of the offence and then
 proceed to investigate or depute his subordinate
 officer to investigate the facts and circumstances
 of the case. Sub-section (2) entitles the informant
 to receive a copy of the information, as recorded
 under sub-section (1), free of cost. Sub-section
 (3) says that in the event of an officer in charge
 of a police station refusing to record the
 information as postulated under sub-section (1),
 a person aggrieved thereby may send the
 substance of such information in writing and by
 post to the Superintendent of Police concerned
 who is given an option either to investigate the
 case himself or direct the investigation to be
 made by a police officer subordinate to him, in
 the manner provided by Cr.P.C ., if he is satisfied
 that the information discloses the commission of
 a cognizable offence. The police officer to whom
 investigation is entrusted by the Superintendent
 of Police has all the powers of an officer in
 charge of the police station in relation to that
 offence. 18. An information given under sub-section (1)
 of Section 154 Cr.P.C. is commonly known as
 first information report (FIR) though this term is
 not used in the Code. It is a very important
 document. And as its nickname suggests it is the
 earliest and the first information of a cognizable
 offence recorded by an officer in charge of a
 police station. It sets the criminal law in motion
 and marks the commencement of the
 investigation which ends up with the formation of
 opinion under Section 169 or 170 Cr.P.C ., as the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 23 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others case may be, and forwarding of a police report
 under Section 173 Cr.P.C. It is quite possible and
 it happens not infrequently that more
 informations than one are given to a police
 officer in charge of a police station in respect of
 the same incident involving one or more than
 one cognizable offences. In such a case he need
 not enter every one of them in the station house
 diary and this is implied in Section 154 Cr.P.C.
 Apart from a vague information by a phone call
 or a cryptic telegram, the information first entered
 in the station house diary, kept for this purpose,
 by a police officer in charge of a police station is
 the first information report -- FIR postulated by Section 154 Cr.P.C. All other informations made
 orally or in writing after the commencement of
 the investigation into the cognizable offence
 disclosed from the facts mentioned in the first
 information report and entered in the station
 house diary by the police officer or such other
 cognizable offences as may come to his notice
 during the investigation, will be statements falling
 under Section 162 Cr.P.C. No such
 information/statement can properly be treated as
 an FIR and entered in the station house diary
 again, as it would in effect be a second FIR and
 the same cannot be in conformity with the
 scheme of Cr.P.C . Take a case where an FIR
 mentions cognizable offence under Section 307
 or 326 IPC and the investigating agency learns
 during the investigation or receives fresh
 information that the victim died, no fresh FIR
 under Section 302 IPC need be registered which
 will be irregular; in such a case alteration of the
 provision of law in the first FIR is the proper
 course to adopt. Let us consider a different
 situation in which H having killed W, his wife,
 informs the police that she is killed by an
 unknown person or knowing that W is killed by
 his mother or sister, H owns up the responsibility
 and during investigation the truth is detected; it
 does not require filing of fresh FIR against H -- State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others the real offender -- who can be arraigned in the
 report under Section 173(2) or 173(8) Cr.P.C ., as
 the case may be. It is of course permissible for
 the investigating officer to send up a report to the
 Magistrate concerned even earlier that
 investigation is being directed against the person
 suspected to be the accused. 19. The scheme of Cr.P.C . is that an officer in
 charge of a police station has to commence
 investigation as provided in Section 156 or 157 Cr.P.C on the basis of entry of the first
 information report, on coming to know of the
 commission of a cognizable offence. On
 completion of investigation and on the basis of
 the evidence collected, he has to form an opinion
 under Section 169 or 170 Cr.P.C., as the case
 may be, and forward his report to the Magistrate
 concerned under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. However, even after filing such a report, if he
 comes into possession of further information or
 material, he need not register a fresh FIR; he is
 empowered to make further investigation,
 normally with the leave of the court, and where
 during further investigation he collects further
 evidence, oral or documentary, he is obliged to
 forward the same with one or more further
 reports; this is the import of sub-section (8) of
 Section 173 Cr.P.C. 20. From the above discussion it follows that
 under the scheme of the provisions of Sections
 154 , 155 , 156 , 157 , 162 , 169 , 170 and 173 Cr.P.C. only the earliest or the first information in
 regard to the commission of a cognizable offence
 satisfies the requirements of Section 154 Cr. P.C.
 Thus there can be no second FIR and
 consequently there can be no fresh investigation
 on receipt of every subsequent information in
 respect of the same cognizable offence or the
 same occurrence or incident giving rise to one or
 more cognizable offences. On receipt of CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 25 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others
 State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others

 information about a cognizable offence or an
 incident giving rise to a cognizable offence or
 offences and on entering the FIR in the station
 house diary, the officer in charge of a police
 station has to investigate not merely the
 cognizable offence reported in the FIR but also
 other connected offences found to have been
 committed in the course of the same transaction
 or the same occurrence and file one or more
 reports as provided in Section 173 Cr. P.C. 27. A just balance between the fundamental
 rights of the citizens under Articles 19 and 21 of
 the Constitution and the expansive power of the
 police to investigate a cognizable offence has to
 be struck by the court. There cannot be any
 controversy that sub-section (8) of Section 173 Cr.P.C. empowers the police to make further
 investigation, obtain further evidence (both oral
 and documentary) and forward a further report or
 reports to the Magistrate. In Narang case [(1979)
 2 SCC 322 : 1979 SCC (Cri) 479] it was,
 however, observed that it would be appropriate
 to conduct further investigation with the
 permission of the court. However, the sweeping
 power of investigation does not warrant
 subjecting a citizen each time to fresh
 investigation by the police in respect of the same
 incident, giving rise to one or more cognizable
 offences, consequent upon filing of successive
 FIRs whether before or after filing the final report
 under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. It would clearly be
 beyond the purview of Sections 154 and 156 Cr.P.C., nay, a case of abuse of the statutory
 power of investigation in a given case. In our
 view a case of fresh investigation based on the
 second or successive FIRs, not being a counter-
 case, filed in connection with the same or
 connected cognizable offence alleged to have
 been committed in the course of the same
 transaction and in respect of which pursuant to
 the first FIR either investigation is under way or CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 26 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others final report under Section 173(2) has been
 forwarded to the Magistrate, may be a fit case for
 exercise of power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. or
 under Articles 226/227 of the Constitution. (emphasis supplied) (ii) After considering the case law and facts of the case,
Hon'ble Apex Court quashed the second FIR i.e. Crime No. 268 of
1997, relevant portion para 28 is as under : 11-1994 at Kuthuparamba was registered again
 under Section 154 Cr.P.C. which would be the
 second FIR and, in our opinion, on the facts of
 this case, was irregular and a fresh investigation
 by the investigating agency was unwarranted
 and illegal. On that date the investigations in the
 earlier cases (Crimes Nos. 353 and 354 of 1994)
 were pending. The correct course of action
 should have been to take note of the findings
 and the contents of the report, streamline the
 investigation to ascertain the true and correct
 facts, collect the evidence in support thereof,
 form an opinion under Sections 169 and 170 Cr.P.C., as the case may be, and forward the
 report/reports under Section 173(2) or Section
 173(8) Cr.P.C. to the Magistrate concerned. The
 course adopted in this case, namely, the
 registration of the information as the second FIR
 in regard to the same incident and making a
 fresh investigation is not permissible under the
 scheme of the provisions of Cr.P.C . as pointed
 out above, therefore, the investigation
 undertaken and the report thereof cannot but be CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 27 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others invalid. We have, therefore, no option except to
 quash the same leaving it open to the
 investigating agency to seek permission in Crime
 No. 353 or 354 of 1994 of the Magistrate to make
 further investigation, forward further report or
 reports and thus proceed in accordance with law. (emphasis supplied) 20. It is pertinent to state that in T.T. Antony (supra)
second FIR was registered on the basis of fresh information received
whereas in the instant case, no such information was even received
to the CBI. As already stated that the information received in the
office of CBI relates to forgery/fraud to the tune of ` 596.11 lacs
committed by the persons whose names were mentioned therein with
the connivance of some other persons. Thus, even no fresh
information was received to the CBI relating to the second and third
FIR. 21. In Amit Bhai Anil Chandra Shah v. CBI (supra) , Apex
Court followed the law laid down in T.T. Antony 's case and same is
clear from para 36 and 37, which read as under : sheet dated 4-9-2012, this Court has also treated CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 28 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others the alleged fake encounter of Tulsiram Prajapati
 to be an outcome of one single conspiracy
 alleged to have been hatched in November 2005
 which ultimately culminated in 2006. In such
 circumstances, the filing of the second FIR and a
 fresh charge-sheet for the same is contrary to
 the provisions of the Code suggesting that the
 petitioner was not being investigated, prosecuted
 and tried "in accordance with law". 37. This Court has consistently laid down the law
 on the issue interpreting the Code, that a second
 FIR in respect of an offence or different offences
 committed in the course of the same transaction
 is not only impermissible but it violates Article 21 of the Constitution. In T.T. Antony [(2001) 6 SCC
 181 : 2001 SCC (Cri) 1048] , this Court has
 categorically held that registration of second FIR
 (which is not a cross-case) is violative of Article
 21 of the Constitution. The following conclusion
 in paras 19, 20 and 27 of that judgment are
 relevant which read as under: (SCC pp. 196-97
 & 200). * * * * * * * * * * * *

 The above referred declaration of law by this
 Court has never been diluted in any subsequent
 judicial pronouncements even while carving out
 exceptions. (emphasis supplied) (i) Apex Court dealt with the plea of same transaction in
para 42 to 44 and same is reproduced as under : Kandimalla Subbaiah [AIR 1961 SC 1241 : Cheemalapati Ganeswara Rao [AIR 1963 SC
 1850 : (1963) 2 Cri LJ 671] . 43. In Babulal [(1937-38) 65 IA 158 : AIR 1938
 PC 130] , the Privy Council has held that: (IA p. 176)
 "... if several persons conspire to commit
 offences, and commit overt acts in pursuance of
 the conspiracy (a circumstance which makes the
 act of one the act of each and all the
 conspirators), these acts are committed in the
 course of the same transaction, which embraces
 the conspiracy and the acts done under it. The
 common concert and agreement which constitute
 the conspiracy serve to unify the acts done in
 pursuance of it." 44. In Swamirathnam [AIR 1957 SC 340 : 1957
 Cri LJ 422] , the following conclusion in para 7 is
 relevant: (AIR p. 344)
 "7. On behalf of the appellant Abu Bucker it was
 contended that there has been misjoinder of
 charges on the ground that several conspiracies,
 distinct from each other, had been lumped
 together and tried at one trial. The advocate for
 Swamirathnam, however, did not put forward this
 submission. We have examined the charge
 carefully and find no ground for accepting the
 contention raised. The charge, as framed,
 discloses one single conspiracy, although spread
 over several years. There was only one object of
 the conspiracy and that was to cheat members of
 the public. The fact that in the course of years
 others joined the conspiracy or that several
 incidents of cheating took place in pursuance of CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 30 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others the conspiracy did not change the conspiracy
 and did not split up a single conspiracy into
 several conspiracies. It was suggested that
 although the modus operandi may have been the
 same, the several instances of cheating were not
 part of the same transaction. Reliance was
 placed on the case of Sharpurji Sorabji v. Emperor [AIR 1936 Bom 154] , and on the case
 of Choragudi Venkatadri v. Emperor [ILR (1910)
 33 Mad 502] . These cases are not in point. In
 the Bombay case, no charge of conspiracy had
 been framed and the decision in the Madras
 case was given before Section 120-B was
 introduced into the Penal Code. In the present
 case, the instances of cheating were in
 pursuance of the conspiracy and were therefore
 parts of the same transaction." (emphasis supplied) (ii) Para 58.3 to 58.9 are also relevant and same are
reproduced as under : 2005. We have already concluded that this Court
 having reposed faith in CBI accepted their
 contention that Tulsiram Prajapati encounter is a
 part of the same chain of events in which
 Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi were killed and
 directed CBI to "take up" the investigation. 58.7. For vivid understanding, let us consider a
 situation in which Mr A having killed B with the
 aid of C, informs the police that unknown
 persons killed B. During investigation, it revealed
 that A was the real culprit and D abetted A to
 commit the murder. As a result, the police officer
 files the charge-sheet under Section 173(2) of
 the Code with the Magistrate. Although, in due
 course, it was discovered through further
 investigation that the person who abetted Mr A
 was C and not D as mentioned in the charge- sheet filed under Section 173 of the Code. In
 such a scenario, uncovering of the later fact that
 C is the real abettor will not demand a second
 FIR rather a supplementary charge-sheet under
 Section 173(8) of the Code will serve the
 purpose. 58.8. Likewise, in the case on hand, initially CBI
 took a stand that the third person accompanying
 Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi was Kalimuddin. However, with the aid of further investigation, it
 unveiled that the third person was Tulsiram
 Prajapati. Therefore, only as a result of further
 investigation, CBI has gathered the information
 that the third person was Tulsiram Prajapati.
 Thus a second FIR in the given facts and CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 33 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others circumstances is unwarranted: instead filing of a
 supplementary charge-sheet in this regard will
 suffice the issue. 58.9. Administering criminal justice is a two-end
 process, where guarding the ensured rights of
 the accused under the Constitution is as
 imperative as ensuring justice to the victim. It is
 definitely a daunting task but equally a
 compelling responsibility vested on the court of
 law to protect and shield the rights of both. Thus,
 a just balance between the fundamental rights of
 the accused guaranteed under the Constitution
 and the expansive power of the police to
 investigate a cognizable offence has to be struck
 by the court. Accordingly, the sweeping power of
 investigation does not warrant subjecting a
 citizen each time to fresh investigation by the
 police in respect of the same incident, giving rise
 to one or more cognizable offences. As a
 consequence, in our view this is a fit case for
 quashing the second FIR to meet the ends of
 justice. (emphasis supplied) 22. From the above judgments, it becomes crystal clear
that second or subsequent FIRs are not permissible for the same
offence or the offences committed in the same transaction or
committed in the same conspiracy. 23. Applying the above settled proposition of law in the
facts of the cases at hand, following facts emerge:- State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (ii) that the subject matter of the said complaint was
 fraud/forgery committed with the bank by the borrowers to the
 tune of ` 596.11 lacs; (iii) that as per the complaint the said fraud/forgery
 was committed by three persons namely V. K. Jha, Nandita
 Bakshi and Ms. Shreya Jha d/o V. K. Jha with the connivance of
 outside persons; (iv) that as per the complaint modus-operandi of the
 above persons to commit fraud/forgery was to avail credit limits
 from different branches of the complainant bank by furnishing
 forged and fabricated documents as collateral securities; (v) that bank requested to register the complaint and
 investigate the matter; (vi) that no other complaint/information was received
 to the CBI from the bank; (vii) that since only one complaint/information was
 received to the CBI, thus in terms of Section 154 (1) Cr. P.C, CBI
 was bound to register only one FIR and CBI had no jurisdiction
 or occasion to bifurcate the said complaint in three parts; (viii) that there was no material with the CBI to form
 any opinion even prima-facie that the fraud to the tune of CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 35 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others ` 596.11 lacs was committed by the above said persons by
 hatching three different conspiracy. On the contrary, from the
 complaint prima-facie it appears that accused had acted in
 pursuance of one conspiracy; (ix) that moreover the fact whether the above said
 persons had committed the said fraud/forgery in pursuance of
 one conspiracy or different conspiracy was subject matter of
 investigation and there was no material with the CBI to bifurcate
 the information at the threshold level by registering three
 separate FIRs on the basis of one information received from the
 bank; (x) that at the time of registering three separate FIRs,
 CBI mentioned in all the FIRs that pecuniary loss to the tune of
 ` 596.11 lacs was caused to the bank by the act of accused
 persons, which further corroborates the complainant version that
 the forgery/fraud was committed in furtherance of one conspiracy
 hatched by the said persons alongwith their co-accused; (xi) that even after completing the investigation, CBI
 had not mentioned in the charge-sheets that the accused
 persons had formed three different conspiracies; CBI had not
 even mentioned the period of any such conspiracy. If the above
 fraud/forgery was committed in furtherance of three different
 conspiracies, CBI was supposed to mention in the charge-sheet
 about the period when the conspiracy was started and ended; State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (xii) that in the charge-sheet of second FIR (CC No.
 2/12), CBI had mentioned as under:- (xiii) that similarly in the charge-sheet of third FIR, CBI
 mentioned:- (xiv) that from the charge-sheets filed by the CBI, it
 becomes crystal clear that the conspiracy was hatched with an
 intention to cheat different banks by way of obtaining credit limits
 facilities/loans in the name of different companies/firm in their
 names or in the name of their relatives. This further corroborates
 the complainant's version that the three persons namely V. K.
 Jha, Nandita Bakshi and Shreya Jha committed fraud/forgery
 with the bank by obtaining credit facilities from different branches CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 37 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others by producing forged documents as a collateral securities; 24. From the above, it becomes abundantly clear that the
fraud/forgery to the tune of ` 596.11 lacs as mentioned in the written
complaint dated September 1, 2000 was committed in furtherance of
one conspiracy. Mere fact that accused persons committed the said
forgery in three different accounts is not sufficient to hold even prima-
facie that the offences were distinct or separate. Rather, it was the
modus-operandi of the accused persons to obtain credit limits from
different accounts by producing forged/fabricated documents as
collateral securities. Thus, CBI was supposed to register one FIR in
terms of Section 154(1) Cr.P.C and to investigate the matter in terms
of Section 157 Cr.P.C and filed the charges-sheet in accordance with
Section 173 Cr.P.C. 25. Pondering over the ongoing discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that the act of CBI registering separate i.e. FIR
No. RC-3E/2000/CBI/SPE/SIU-X/New Delhi and RC-4E/2000/CBI/
SPE/SIU-X/New Delhi was in violation of Section 154(1) Cr.P.C. Since
the second and third FIR is not permissible under the provisions of Cr.P.C , thus the investigation undertaken in the said subsequent FIRs
and the report filed thereof cannot but be invalid, thus the same
cannot be read to form even prima-facie opinion whether prima-facie
case is made out against the accused persons or not. No doubt,
investigating agency has a right to conduct further investigation in the
first FIR as held by Apex Court in T.T. Antony v. State of Kerala & CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 38 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others others (supra), thus CBI is permitted to conduct further investigation
in the first FIR case and file supplementary challan, if it desires. 26. Now, I proceed to examine both the cases one by
one. 27. Facts of CC No. 1/2012 in brief are as under :- State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (iv) It was further alleged on December 09, 1997, an
application was submitted for credit facilities for export business of
jewellery for a limit of ` 60 lac (Packing Credit, ` 20 lac, Foreign
Demand Bill (FDB), ` 25 lac, Letter of Credit/Document against
acceptance ` 10 lac and bank guarantee of ` 5 lac). (v) It was further alleged that Shafiqur Rehman (A4) in
furtherance of the said conspiracy, arranged fictitious persons/forged
documents for collateral security and also arranged fake owners to
execute the equitable mortgage to the bank. (vi) It was alleged that A4 had arranged forged property
documents i.e. title deed of property measuring 645 yards Plot No. 1,
Khasra No. 560 with boundary wall situated at Mandawali, Fazalpur,
Abadi, Ganesh Nagar, Shahdara, Delhi, which stood in the name of
Subash Chhabra. During investigation, it was revealed that neither he
had mortgaged the said property with the bank nor he executed any
guarantee deed in favour of borrower and this fact has also been
established from the GEQD report as the signature of Subhash
Chhabra available on the documents were found forged. (vii) Borrower had furnished another property as collateral
security i.e. property measuring 20 Bigha, 11 Viswas located at
Village Jonapur, Tehsil Mehrauli, Delhi. As per documents, the said
property belonged to Krishna Kaur, who had already died on August CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 40 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others 05, 1991. It was alleged that in place of deceased Krishna Kaur,
borrower had produced Shashi Bala Sharma (A9) to execute the
guarantee deed as well as to execute equitable mortgage of the said
property with the bank. (viii) It was alleged that Rekha Anand (A7) was a panel
advocate of the bank but she had submitted a false and bogus legal
scrutiny report qua property located at Seemapuri to the bank vide
her report dated December 11, 1997. Accordingly, it was alleged that
she was also the member of the said conspiracy. (ix) It was further alleged Mr. U.R.G. Bhatt (A6) knowingly
and deliberately did not obtain the opinion letter from previous banker
of the party and he deliberately accepted the letter issued from the
Bank of Madura Ltd., Nehru Place, New Delhi showing that the
borrower was having current account No. 27920 with the said bank
whereas the said account was opened with the Bank of Madura Ltd.
only on December 09, 1997. It was alleged that though it was the duty
of A6 to obtain opinion letter from previous banker to verify the
credential of the borrower as exporters but A6 accepted the letter of
Bank of Madura Ltd. without any verification. (x) It was further alleged that A2 and A3 in connivance
with accused Sanjay Malik (A5) submitted forged/fake audited
balance sheet and profit and loss account for the period March 31,
1997 and October 31, 1997 showing the turnover of the firm to the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 41 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others tune of ` 156.22 lacs and 218.36 lacs respectively whereas during
investigation, it was revealed that the firm was not in existence prior
to December 08, 1997. (xi) It was further alleged that on the basis of said
forged/false documents, on December 18, 1997 A6 had sanctioned
Packing Credit Facility to the tune of ` 40 lacs, Foreign Bill Discount
Facility to the tune of ` 10 lac. Inland Letter of Credit Facility to the
tune of ` 10 lac, Bank Guarantee to the tune of ` 5 lac and ` 15 lacs
including ` 5 lac as sub limit. (xii) It was alleged that after sanctioning of the above said
limits, A3 Nandita Bakshi furnished her personal guarantee in favour
of the borrower. (xiii) It was further alleged that Vivek Sood (A8) had
introduced the firm at the time of opening of the account in the Bank
of Madura Ltd., Nehru Place, New Delhi. It was further alleged that
Vivek Sood (A8) is a family friend of Ms. Shreya Jha. (xiv) It was further alleged that limit of the M/s Anamika
Enterprises was further enhanced on September 05, 1998 on the
recommendation of A6. It was alleged that A6 prepared the
recommendation for enhancement of the credit limit to the tune of
` 1.75 crores despite the fact that the borrower had already created a
huge liability to the tune of ` 94.90 lacs. It was alleged that since A6 CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 42 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others had already released the amount to the party, he recommended for
ratification of ` 94.90 lacs to the Circle Office knowingly well that party
was not doing any business. (xv) It was further alleged that Vivek Sood (A8) is younger
brother of A3 and in furtherance of criminal conspiracy, he aided and
abetted the commission of crime by opening account in the name of
different firms such as M/s Sunder Diamonds, M/s Chanda Exports
and M/s Anubhuti Trading in different banks. It was further alleged
that A1, A2 and A3 had transferred huge amounts in the said firms. (xvi) It was further alleged that A2 and A3 were actually
managing the affairs of M/s Anamika Enterprises and they diverted
the money to the other sister concerns in which A2, A3 and A8 were
directors and Ms. Shreya Jha (A1) acted at their instance knowingly
well that the fund pertained to the loans which were fraudulently got
sanctioned from Canara Bank on the basis of forged/fake documents. (xvii) Accordingly, a charge-sheet was filed against the
accused persons for the offece punishable under Section 120B IPC,
409/420/471 IPC and Section 13 (1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption
Act, 1988 and substantive offence 409/420/471 IPC and Section 13
(1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. It was further alleged
that accused persons caused wrongful loss to the bank to the tune of
` 1,74,54,229/- and obtained corresponding wrongful gain jointly and
severally. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (xviii) It was alleged that since A6 was a public servant,
necessary sanction under Section 19 of PC Act was obtained. 28. Learned counsel appearing for A1, A2 and A3
vigorously contended that no charge can be framed against them as
there is no separate complaint in this case and on the basis of
complaint on record, a charge had already been framed against the
accused persons in M/s Juniper Jewellery's case. It was further
alleged that since in M/s Juniper Jewellery's case, Hon'ble High Court
pleased to discharge Ms. Shreya Jha, thus no charge can be framed
against her in this case as there is no new complaint against Ms.
Shreya Jha. (i) It was further astutely argued that the entire
prosecution case is based on the allegation that Shreya Jha being the
proprietor of M/s Anamika Enterprises had availed various credit
facilities and loan from Canara Bank, Chandni Chowk Branch to the
tune of ` 1.5 crore and at the time of availing the said credit limit, A1
had mortgaged two properties as collateral security but later on it was
revealed that the title deeds of the said properties were forged and
fabricated. It was thus argued that prosecution has built up a case
that by furnishing forged title deeds, borrower with the conspiracy of
other accused persons induced the bank to sanction the said credit
limits. However, it was vehemently argued that there is no merit in the
said allegations as it is admitted case of prosecution that the alleged CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 44 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others documents were replaced by Shreya Jha on October 23, 1999. It was
further argued that CBI in its reply categorically admitted that the title
deeds of the said properties were found genuine. It was further urged
that since the FIR was lodged only on September 01, 2000 whereas
documents had been replaced much prior to that i.e. on October 23,
1999, thus, there was no cause of action to lodge an FIR on
September 01, 2000. (ii) It was further vigorously contended that though there is
no evidence on record to show even prima-facie that Shreya Jha had
changed the alleged forged documents at the instance of bank, but
assuming for the sake of arguments that A1 had changed the
documents at the instance of bank, but it only shows that she had no
dishonest intention to cheat the bank otherwise she would not have
replaced the documents. It was perspicaciously argued if it is
established that there was no dishonest intention on the part of
borrower, no charge can be framed against any of the accused
persons. It was further sagaciously argued that from the statement of
PW2 H.S. Bhist, it becomes clear that prior to sanctioning the credit
limits, bank official visited the business premises of the borrower and
they satisfied themselves before making recommendation for grant of
credit limits to the borrower. It was thus argued that there is no
substance in the allegation that firm was not doing any business prior
to December 08, 1997. (iii) It was further contended that PW3 Sachidanand in his CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 45 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others statement clarified that even no collateral security was required to
grant the credit facilities and it was further urged that the credit
facilities were sanctioned on the basis of stock, which was found
sufficient. It was thus contended that if no collateral security was
required to obtain various credit facilities, it cannot be said that A1
had any dishonest intention at the time of availing the credit facility. It
was further argued that from the statement of PW8 K. Uma Prasad, it
becomes clear that loan was sanctioned after detailed inquiry and
satisfaction recorded by bank officials, which further rules out the
possibility that Shreya Jha had any dishonest intention to cheat the
bank. (iv) It was further contended that initially a limit of ` 40 lacs
was granted which was enhanced by Circle Office and PW19 V.G.
Prabhu testified in his statement that Chief Manager was empowered
to sanction the loan/limit to the extent of ` 40 lacs, thus it was argued
that there is no merit in the allegation that U.R.G. Bhatt had extended
any favour to the borrower. (v) It was further argued that since, the credit limit was
enhanced by Circle Office from ` 40 lacs to ` 1.50 lacs, this itself
shows that the firm was doing business. Mere fact that later on firm
became irregular in making the payments to the bank does not mean
that accused had any dishonest intention at the time of availing credit
facilities. It was further argued that there is no evidence on record to
show that A1, A2, A3 and A8 had committed any kind of forgery. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (vi) It was further vigorously argued that A2 has been
impleaded as an accused in this case mere on the ground that he is
father of A1 otherwise there is no allegation against him. Similarly, it
was contended that A3 has been impleaded as an accused in this
case mere on the ground that she stood guarantor but there is
nothing on record, which may show that she had misrepresented the
bank in any manner. It was further contended that A8 Vivek Sood has
been impleaded as an accused mere on the ground that some fund
had been transferred from the account of M/s Anamika Enterprises to
his firm but PW40 B. Sukumaran in his statement clarified that such
transfer is permissible with the permission of the bank. But during
investigation, no investigation was done to find out whether any
permission was obtained or not. (vii) At last, it was argued that the firm had already made
the entire payment to the bank in the year 2008, which further shows
that there was no dishonest intention on the part accused persons. 29. Shri Islam Khan, Advocate, counsel appearing for A4
sagaciously argued that A4 has been roped in conspiracy on the
ground that certain payments were made to A4 by sister concerns of
the firm of borrower. It was argued that as per charge-sheet, a
cheque of ` 1.74 lac was issued by M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery in
favour of A4 on November 17, 1997 whereas a cheque of ` 3.15 lac
was issued by Balaji Export in favour of A4 on November 15, 1997. It CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 47 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others was astutely contended that as per the charge-sheet, the alleged
conspiracy was hatched on December 08, 1997. It was submitted that
if the conspiracy was hatched on December 08, 1997, it is not clear
how the alleged payments became relevant to rope A4 in the said
conspiracy. It was argued that if the said payments were made in
pursuance of the alleged conspiracy, Balaji Export should also be an
accused but CBI had not impleaded Balaji Export as an accused. (i) It was further alleged that though prosecution has also
relied upon the statement of various witnesses to connect A4 with the
conspiracy such as PW2, PW18, PW22, PW24 and PW25, but it was
argued that their statements are quite vague. It was further
contended that mere fact that A4 met with the said witnesses is not
sufficient to make out a prima-facie case that he was a member of the
alleged conspiracy. It was further submitted that though PW18 had
also disclosed the name of several other persons, namely, M.L. Joshi
and Niranjan but CBI preferred not to implead them as an accused,
which shows that CBI had adopted pick and choose policy. 30. Shri K.K. Patra, Advocate, counsel appearing for A5
Sanjay Malik submitted that there are two allegations against A5
Sanjay Malik. Firstly, that he introduced the borrower to U.R.G. Bhatt
and he got opened the account with his introduction; secondly, that
A5 had submitted a forged and fabricated audited balance sheet and
profit and loss account for the period ending March 31, 1997 and
October 31, 1997 showing that the turnover of firm was to the tune of CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 48 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others ` 156.22 lacs and ` 218.36 lacs respectively whereas the firm was
not in existence till December 08, 1997. It was vehemently argued
that there is no evidence on record to show that A5 had
prepared/certified/arranged the alleged balance sheet and profit and
loss account. It was argued that it is admitted case of CBI that the
said documents were certified by M/s R.K. Munjal and Associates and
there is no evidence on record to show that there is any nexus
between A5 and the said firm. It was argued that assuming for the
sake of arguments that A5 introduced the borrower to the Chief
Manager (A6), but this fact is not sufficient in any manner to show
prima-facie that A5 was involved in any kind of conspiracy. It was
further contended that it is admitted case of CBI that A2 had an
account with the bank. Even other firms, in which her father was
associated, had also an account in the bank, thus there is no
substance in the allegation that bank had opened the account of the
borrower only on the introduction of A5. It was further argued that
there is no other evidence against A5, thus submitted that A5
deserves discharge in this case. 31. Shri Rajpal Yadav, Advocate, counsel appearing for
A6 U.R.G. Bhatt sagaciously contended that at the relevant time, A6
was working as Chief Manager and in discharge of his official duty he
had entertained the request of borrower to grant PCL and FDBP and
sanctioned the same. It was further argued that the proposal was put
up before him by Accountant and Manager after thorough checking.
Both in their notes dated January 07, 1998 recommended to sanction CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 49 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others the limits. At the time of making recommendation, they also obtained
LSR and visited the premises of the borrower. On the basis of their
recommendations, A6 sanctioned the limit. It was further contended
that there is nothing on record to show that A6 had any dishonest
intention while acting on the recommendation of his subordinates. It
was submitted that surprisingly CBI had not impleaded either
Accountant or Manager who made recommendation in favour of the
borrower, which shows that there was no fault in making
recommendation in favour of the borrower. (i) It was further contended that collateral security was
taken as an abundant caution and this fact has been testified by PW3
and PW19 in their statements. It was contended that this shows that
A6 was not acting under any conspiracy otherwise no collateral
security would have been taken. (ii) It was contended that A6 has been charge-sheeted
mere on the ground that he had dealt with the file. If this was a
criteria, CBI should also have impleaded PW2, PW4 and PW8 as an
accused as they had also dealt with the file but CBI did not implead
them as an accused. It was further contended that mere fact that A6
being the Chief Manager had assigned the application of borrower to
his subordinate is not sufficient to draw a conclusion that A6 was
acting in furtherance of any conspiracy. (iii) It was further contended that the next allegation CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 50 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others against A6 is that he had enhanced the limit in pursuance of
conspiracy violating the Rules and Regulations of the bank. It was
contended that the limit was enhanced by Circle Office and not by A6
when a meeting had taken place on October 20, 1998 under the
Chairmanship of DGM wherein it was unanimously decided to
enhance the limit. It was further contended that the said meeting had
taken place in pursuance of the letter dated September 15, 1998 sent
by A6. It was argued that if A6 be in conspiracy with the borrower, he
would not have sent the letter to the Circle Office; rather he would
have enhanced the limit at his own level. (iv) It was further argued that the borrower had already
returned all outstanding amount to the bank. Mere fact that later on it
was revealed that initially borrower had furnished some
forged/fabricated documents is not sufficient to impose criminal
liability against Chief Manager. It was further contended that there is
no allegation of forgery/cheating against A6 and he has been
impleaded as an accused for the offence punishable under Section
120B IPC read with Section 13 (1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act. (v) It was further argued that though departmental
proceeding was initiated against A6, but he had been exonerated
from all the charges, which further strengthen the defence version
that there was no violation on the part of A6 while he acted in
discharge of his official duties. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others 32. Shri Vijay Kumar, Advocate, counsel appearing for A7
contended that A7 has been charge-sheeted on the ground that she
had furnished a false report in pursuance of the conspiracy. It was
argued that A7 in the beginning of her report clarified that the report
was based on the photocopy of sale deed dated December 12, 1968
and inspection carried out of the record available in the office of sub
registrar for the period January 01, 1985 to December 11, 1997. Even
in her report, she advised the bank to obtain relevant original
documents and verified the possession of the owner. It was further
contended that said report was scrutinised by legal department of the
bank and during scrutiny, legal department did not find any illegality in
the report. It was further submitted that report was submitted on the
basis of documents furnished by the bank to A7. It was argued that
A7 had submitted the report in accordance with the settled bank
practice, thus it cannot be said that either A7 had committed any
forgery or cheating or A7 had entered into any kind of conspiracy with
the borrower or her associates. In support of his contention, counsel
placed reliance on two judgments namely Neeta Deep Rastogi v.
CBI in Criminal Revision Petition No. 77/2008 decided by the High
Court of Delhi on January 21, 2009 and CBI v. K. Narayana Rao in
Criminal Appeal No. 1460 of 2012 decided by the Supreme Court on
September 21, 2012. 33. Learned counsel appearing for A9 contended that A9
is an illiterate lady and she was not aware about the outcome of her
act. It was submitted that one person named Arshad approached her CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 52 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others for execution of some documents in the bank and promised to pay
` 5000/- in lieu of that work. It was argued that since A9 was in the
need of ` 5000/-, she agreed to appear in the bank to execute the
documents. Accordingly, she executed the said documents at the
instance of Arshad. 34. On the contrary, learned Public Prosecutor appearing
for CBI refuted the contentions raised by counsels for the accused
persons. It was vehemently contended that borrower had dishonest
intention since inception and due to that reason, borrower had not
only furnished false balance sheet and profit and loss account of her
firm but also produced the fictitious persons before the bank to
execute equitable mortgage and guarantee deed papers. Thus, it was
argued that mere fact that later on borrower had replaced the forged
documents with genuine documents is not sufficient to exonerate the
borrower at this stage. It was further argued that in the said episode,
A2, A3 and A8 being the close relatives and friends of A1 had played
active role and they all acted in furtherance of the common object of
the conspiracy i.e. to cheat the bank. It was further contended that
though the firm was not in existence on December 08, 1997, but the
borrower had furnished the balance sheet for the period much prior to
December 08, 1997. It was further argued that mere fact that A1 had
been discharged by the Hon'ble High Court in M/s Juniper Jewellery's
case is not sufficient to exonerate her in the present case also as
both the cases are different. Mere fact that there is no separate FIR in
the present case is also not a ground to discharge the accused. It CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 53 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others was further argued that the role of A4 was to arrange forged/fake title
deeds of the property and fictitious persons to execute the equitable
mortgage and guarantee papers with the bank, thus it cannot be said
that A4 had not played any role in the conspiracy. It was further
argued that from the payments received by A4 proves prima-facie that
A4 rendered his service to the borrower otherwise there was no
occasion for A4 to arrange fake title deeds/fictitious persons for the
borrower. (i) It was further argued that A5 Sanjay Malik was involved
in procuring fake audited balance-sheet and profit and loss account in
favour of the borrower, thus it cannot be said that A5 was not part of
the conspiracy. It was further submitted A6 U.R.G. Bhatt knew the
borrower and due to that reason, he had agreed to became the part
of the conspiracy and in furtherance of the said conspiracy, he had
shown undue favour to the borrower and due to that reason, he had
not verified the credential of the borrower from the previous banker
and he accepted the letter of previous banker, which was produced
by the borrower and no effort was made to verify the same from the
bank. Similarly, he also did not verify the genuineness of the title
deeds before accepting the same as collateral security. Though
borrower had huge liability but he made recommendation in favour of
the borrower to enhance the limits, which further shows that A6 was
in conspiracy. It was further argued that mere fact that later on
borrower had returned all dues to the bank is not sufficient to
exonerate the accused persons from their criminal misconduct. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (ii) Learned Public Prosecutor submitted that being the
panel advocate, it was the duty of A7 to examine the documents
minutely but she preferred to give a false report stating that the
property was in the name of Subhash Chhabra whereas the property
was in dispute as it belonged to village community and was in the
possession of religious sect. (iii) It was argued that A8 was an instrumental in assisting
the borrower to get opened a current account in the Bank of Madura
Ltd. and he also rendered his service in opening of other accounts in
which the borrower had transferred huge fund. It was further
contended that A9 impersonated herself as Krishna Kaur. 35. I have heard rival submissions advanced by counsels
for both the parties at length, perused the record carefully and gave
my thoughtful consideration to their contentions. 36. From the submissions advanced by counsels for both
the parties, first question arises for consideration whether there is any
cogent evidence to show prima-facie that the firm i.e. M/s Anamika
Enterprises came into existence on December 08, 1997, when the
firm got opened a current account in Canara Bank, Chandni Chowk
Branch, Delhi as alleged by the CBI in the charge-sheet. 37. Though CBI in the charge-sheet categorically alleged CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 55 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others that the firm came into existence on December 08, 1997 but during
investigation CBI failed to collect any cogent evidence in this regard.
On being specifically asked, learned Public Prosecutor submitted that
in the charge-sheet no such evidence has been mentioned; nor it has
also been clarified when the firm was incorporated. From the above
submission, it can safely be culled out that during investigation, CBI
had not collected any evidence to establish even prima-facie that the
firm was not in existence prior to December 08, 1997 or that the firm
came into existence only on December 08, 1997. (i) Perusal of the record reveals that there are statements
of witnesses contrary to the claim of CBI that the firm was not in
existence prior to December 08, 1997. In this regard, the statement of
PW2 H.S. Bhist, Grade-II Officer of Canara Bank is relevant. In his
statement, he testified that he had inspected the business premises
of the firm where he was shown the stock of the firm. Though he
deposed that the showroom of M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery and M/s
Anamika Enterprises was common and it was not possible to
separate the stock as the borrower informed that the stock of M/s
Anamika Enterprises was also in the same showroom. It is admitted
case of CBI that the accused persons were running several
companies. In these circumstances, if two firms were found running in
the same premises does not mean that the firm was not in existence.
Moreover, this fact was in the knowledge of the bank that the stock of
M/s Anamika Enterprises was nor separable from the stock of M/s
Kamayani Fine Jewellery. Thus, it cannot be said that the borrower CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 56 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others had concealed this fact from the bank in any manner. From the
statement of PW2, it becomes crystal clear that after inspecting the
business premises, he made a recommendation to grant credit limit in
favour of the firm. In other words, PW2 believed that the firm was
running business. Moreover, it is also admitted case of CBI that the
firm was dealing in export of jewellery. But CBI did not deem it
appropriate to collect any document in this regard. Even, there is
nothing in the charge-sheet, which may show that IO of the case had
sought any explanation from the borrower to ascertain when the said
firm was incorporated. In these circumstances, I am of the considered
opinion that there is no evidence on record to support the version of
CBI that the firm came into existence only on December 08, 1997. 38. Next question crops up whether there was any
dishonest intention on the part of the borrower while applying for
various credit facilities with the Canara Bank, Chandni Chowk
Branch, Delhi. 39. In order to prove prima-facie that the borrower had
dishonest intention, prosecution has relied upon primarily on three
facts, firstly that the firm had produced fake and fabricated balance-
sheet and profit and loss account for the period March 31, 1997 and
October 31, 1997 wherein the turnover of the firm had been shown to
the tune of ` 156.22 lacs and ` 218.36 lacs respectively; secondly
that the firm had not only produced forged property documents as
collateral security but also produced fictitious persons to execute the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 57 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others equitable mortgage; thirdly that the firm did not have any bank
account and when bank asked the credential of the firm from its
previous banker, borrower had opened a current account on
December 09, 1997 with the Bank of Madura Ltd. and produced a
letter from the said bank to the Canara Bank. 40. As per the charge-sheet filed by CBI, the balance-
sheet and Profit & Loss Accounts were certified by M/s R.K. Munjal
and Associates. During investigation, it was revealed that they had
not certified the said documents and it was also revealed that M/s
Anamika Enterprises was not their client. So the question of certifying
balance-sheet and Profit & Loss Account for M/s Anamika Enterprises
does not arise. In these circumstances, onus under Section 106 Evidence Act is shifted upon the borrower to explain from whom they
got audited balance-sheet and Profit & Loss Account. This prima-facie
shows that the fabricated audited balance-sheet and Profit & Loss
Accounts were produced by the borrower to obtain the various kind of
credit facilities from the bank. 41. At the time of availing various kind of facilities from
Canara Bank, borrower had also produced collateral security of two
properties. One property is located at Mandawali, Fazalpur, Abadi,
Ganesh Nagar, Shahdara, Delhi and claimed that the said property
belonged to Subhash Chhabra whereas the another property was
located at Village Jonapur, Mehrauli, Delhi and claimed that the said
property belonged to Smt. Krishna Kaur. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (i) During investigation, it was revealed that the property
located at Mandawali, Fazalpur, Abadi, Ganesh Nagar, Shahdara,
Delhi was in dispute. Moreover, its owner Subhash Chhabra testified
before the CBI that he had never executed any mortgaged deed in
favour of the borrower before Canara Bank, Chandni Chowk Branch,
Delhi. However, the identity of the person, who appeared before the
Canara Bank as Subhash Chhabra and executed the documents as
Subhash Chhabra could not be identified. (ii) During investigation, it was further revealed that
Krishna Kaur had died on August 05, 1994 and A9 was produced as
Krishna Kaur before the bank to execute the documents. (iii) It is undisputed fact that A1 had applied for various
kinds of credit facilities from the bank and in order to obtain the said
facilities, the said persons were produced before the bank to execute
necessary documents. However, during investigation not only the
documents were found forged but the persons who executed the
documents in favour of borrower also found fictitious. Being the
borrower, A1 should know the credential of the persons to whom she
produced as her guarantor or to execute the equitable mortgage
before the bank. Since, Krishna Kaur had died in August, 1994, it
means that the borrower did not know Krishna Kaur. But despite that
she was produced in the bank to execute the documents in her
favour. This shows that either she had malafide intention or she CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 59 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others asked someone to arrange such person to execute the said
documents. But at this stage, the above conduct of A1 is sufficient to
show prima-facie that she had some dishonest intention. (iv) I do not find any substance in the contention of
learned defence counsel that if she had any dishonest intention, she
would not have replaced the forged documents with genuine
documents on October 23, 1999. Here, some dates are quite crucial.
It is pertinent to state that account was got opened on December 08,
1997. Credit facilities were sanctioned on January 10, 1998. Limit
was enhanced on September 15, 1998 and thereafter a meeting had
taken place between the bank officers and the borrower on October
20, 1998. Thereafter, the borrower had replaced the documents, it
means that the documents were replaced at belated stage. In these
circumstances, there is every possibility that the borrower had
replaced the documents when it was pointed out to the borrower that
the documents submitted by her were fake. Moreover, this is a matter
of trial and cannot be decided at this stage. (v) Further, it is not a simpliciter case that the documents
relating to collateral securities were fake. There may be possibility
that the person is genuine but the documents are not to the
satisfaction of the bank or it may be forged. In that situation, the
borrower may take a plea that since she knew the particular person,
she approached that person for execution of certain documents in her
favour but that person inadvertently produced documents which were CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 60 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others not to the satisfaction of the bank or were forged. But here the
position is quite different because not only the documents are fake
and fabricated but the persons who were produced before the bank
were also fictitious. Being the borrower, it was the minimum
expectation of the bank that borrower would produce genuine
persons before the bank to execute the documents. Thus, at this
stage, I do not find any substance in the contention of the learned
counsel that since the borrower had replaced the documents, she had
no dishonest intention. 42. It is undisputed fact that the borrower had furnished a
bank certificate from the Bank of Madura Ltd. In this regard, the
testimony of PW2 is relevant. In his statement, he testified that in
order to verify whether the party had any account in any other bank,
he asked from the party about the same and its status. Accordingly,
party informed him that she had an account in Bank of Madura Ltd.,
Nehru Place, New Delhi, accordingly, PW2 prepared a letter.
Thereafter, a certificate from the Bank of Madura Ltd. dated
December 11, 1997 was filed confirming that the firm was maintaining
a current account in the said bank. During investigation, it was
revealed that the said account was opened with Bank of Madura Ltd.
only on December 11, 1997. It means that the firm was not having
any account in the Bank of Madura Ltd. on December 09, 1997 when
she applied for various kinds of facilities. If A1 was not maintaining
any bank account in the Bank of Madura Ltd. on December 09, 1997,
there was no occasion for her to make a false statement to the bank CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 61 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others that she was maintaining an account with the Bank of Madura Ltd.
This further shows that she had some dishonest intention. 43. Learned counsel appearing for A1 also vehemently
contended that since collateral security was not essential to avail
various kinds of facilities as prime security was stock, thus it cannot
be said that borrower had any dishonest intention. Admittedly, the
prime security was stock and collateral security was not required to
sanction the credit limit. But the question is whether the bank was
inclined to grant the said limits without collateral security. There is no
evidence on record to show that the bank was inclined to grant the
said limits without taking collateral security. On the contrary, evidence
available on record is that the bank had taken collateral security as an
abundant caution to protect the interest of the bank. If the bank was
not inclined to grant credit facilities to the borrower in the absence of
collateral security, it is immaterial whether the prime security was
sufficient to grant loan or not. 44. From the above, it can safely be culled out that the
collected evidences are sufficient to show prima-facie that A1 had
availed various kinds of credit facilities on the basis of
forged/fabricated documents and she also produced fictitious persons
in order to get the said facilities, thus prima-facie borrower had
dishonest intention while availing the said facilities, hence borrower
(A1) is liable for the offence punishable under Section 420 IPC. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others 45. No doubt, there is no evidence on record to prove that
A1 had committed any forgery or prepared any false document but
there are evidence on record to prove prima-facie that A9 had forged
the signature of Krishna Kaur and similarly the signature of Subhash
Chhabra on the documents executed before the bank were forged.
Indisputably, the said documents were used by A1 in order to avail
the various kinds of facilities. Thus, A1 is also liable for the offence
punishable under Section 471 IPC. Besides that she is also liable for
the offence punishable under Section 468 IPC read with Section
120B IPC. Role of A4 Shafiqur Rehman :- 46. Admittedly, in the charge-sheet, it is recited that the
alleged conspiracy was hatched on December 08, 1997.
Simultaneously, it is also recited in the charge-sheet that A4 had
received certain payments from M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery and
M/s Balaji Export in the month of November, 1997. Thus, it is
admitted case of CBI that the alleged payments were received by A4
prior to hatching the alleged conspiracy. But in the charge-sheet, CBI
failed to explain how the said payments are relevant to connect A4
with the said conspiracy. Even, during course of arguments, learned
Public Prosecutor failed to explain how the said payments are
relevant to connect A4 with the alleged conspiracy. (i) But there are certain other evidence on record to show CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 63 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others that A4 was involved in the alleged conspiracy. Statements of PW2,
PW18, PW22, PW24 and PW25 prima-facie shows that he was
involved in the inspection of properties which were mortgaged with
the bank as collateral security. This prima-facie shows that he had
arranged the said properties/guarantors at the instance of A1 which is
sufficient at this stage to show prima-facie the nexus between A1 and
A4. Thus, at this stage, it cannot be said that he was not a member of
the conspiracy. Role of A5 Sanjay Malik :- 47. As per charge-sheet, role attributed to A5 is that he
had introduced A1, A2 and A3 to A6 and A5 was a Chartered
Accountant by profession. It was further alleged that in connivance
with A2 and A3, A5 had submitted a forged/fake audited balance-
sheet and profit and loss account for the period ending March 31,
1997 and October 31, 1997. Thus, as per the allegations, A5 not only
knew A1, A2 and A3 but he also submitted the forged/fake audited
balance-sheet. 48. Admittedly, there is no cogent evidence on record to
establish that Sanjay Malik was associated with M/s R.K. Munjal and
Associates who allegedly certified the audited balance-sheet and
profit and loss account. However, during investigation, it was revealed
that the said firm had not audited the accounts of the borrower firm. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (i) However, PW2 H.S. Bhist in his statement testified
before the CBI that Sanjay Malik submitted the documents of the
borrower and when he inquired about the balance-sheet submitted by
the borrower, Sanjay Malik confirmed that the balance-sheet had
been prepared under his supervision and borrower i.e. M/s Anamika
Enterprises is a solid party. The said statement shows prime-facie
that the alleged balance-sheet was prepared under the supervision of
A5. At this initial stage, this Court has no reason to disbelieve the
categorical statement made by PW2. (ii) PW21 Sanjeev Gupta in his statement testified that he
used to visit the office of V.K. Jha and Nandita Bakshi along with
Sanjay Malik. But they had never assigned the job of auditing the
accounts of their firms. He also testified that Nandita Bakshi and V.K.
Jha used to talk about the bank loan, accordingly, Sanjay Malik
offered to render his service as he had acquaintance with some bank
Managers. A combined reading of the statements of PW21 and PW2,
makes prima-facie case that before approaching U.R.G. Bhatt, some
talks had taken place between V.K. Jha, who is father of A1 and
thereafter the loan was applied in the name of firm of A1 and A5 got
prepared the balance-sheet, which was submitted along with the loan
application. In these circumstances, at this stage, it is seldom to
discard the prosecution case that A5 was not a part of the conspiracy. Role of A2 V.K. Jha :- 49. A2 is the father of A1. From the statement of PW21, it
becomes prima-facie clear that whenever Sanjay Malik used to visit
his office, he used to talk about loan, consequently, A5 offered his
service to arrange the loan as he had acquaintance with some
Managers. This shows that A5 had introduced V.K. Jha and others
with an intention to get a loan from the branch of A6. There is also
evidence available on record that A2 had attended several meetings
with the officers of the bank and Circle Office when the firm of
accused persons failed to maintain financial discipline. From the
statement of PW21, it also reveals that A5 did not know A1 but he
knew A2 V.K. Jha. Since, the loan application was made in the name
of firm of A1, it prima-facie shows that same was made at the
instance of A2. As already stated that there is evidence on record to
show that audited balance-sheet was prepared under the supervision
of A5, thus at this stage, it is difficult to say that A2 was not the
member of the conspiracy. Role of A8 Vivek Sood :- 50. As already stated that borrower had claimed before
the Canara Bank that she had another account in the Bank of Madura
Ltd., Nehru Place, New Delhi despite the fact that she had no bank
account on December 09, 1997. During investigation, it was revealed
that A1 had opened current account with the Bank of Madura Ltd. and
the said account was introduced by A8 Vivek Sood. The said account CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 66 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others was opened on December 11, 1997. Besides that there is also
evidence on record that some money was transferred in the firm of
A8. No doubt, PW40 B. Sukumaran, DGM of the bank testified before
the CBI that transfer of fund to the sister concern is not generally
permitted, but the same is permissible with the permission of the bank
provided the transactions involved between the firms relate to
genuine business transaction. As per the allegations made in the FIR,
transfers were made to siphon of the fund, thus at this stage, it is
difficult to say that there is no material on record against A8 that he
was not the member of the conspiracy. Role of A7 Rekha Anand :- 51. Admittedly, A7 was a Panel Advocate of Canara Bank
and she had submitted Legal Scrutiny Report (LSR) in this case. As
per charge-sheet, A7 had furnished a false report to the bank. As per
learned defence counsel, the said report was furnished on the basis
of documents supplied by the bank and the report is based on the
basis of inspection carried out of the record available in the office of
Sub-Registrar for the period January 01, 1985 to December 11, 1997. (i) Perusal of the record further reveals that she advised
the bank to keep on record the latest receipt of the payments of
property tax; an affidavit declaring from the owner Subhash Chhabra;
letter of confirming of depositing the title deed must be substantive to
the creation of equitable mortgage. Record further reveals that the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 67 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others said report was scrutinised by the Legal Department of Canara Bank
but no major infirmity was found in the said report. (ii) In support of his contention, learned counsel placed
reliance upon the two judgments, Neeta Deep Rastogi v. CBI
( supra) and CBI v. K. Narayana Rao (supra). (iii) In case Neeta Deep Rastogi v. CBI (supra), facts of
the case were quite identical to the facts of the case at hand. In this
matter, learned Trial Court framed a charge against the panel
advocate on the ground that panel advocate had furnished a false
Legal Scrutiny Report (LSR) like in this case. The said order was
challenged by the panel advocate. In the said matter, Hon'ble High
Court discharged the revisionist i.e. panel advocate from criminal
liability. Relevant paras are 8 and 9 and same are reproduced as
under : - Para 9 : In the impugned order on charge there is
 no discussion on any of the above documents. The impugned order merely reproduces what is
 stated in the chragesheet about the various
 transactions involving the subsequent purchase of
 the property in question. It further adds that
 Adesh Jain had in his statement stated that "a
 watch man was there for 24 hours and he never
 told us that any bank officer ever visited plot for
 any verification or evaluation". The petitioner, as a
 panel Advocate asked to prepare a scrutiny report
 is not required to visit the property herself. That
 really was the task of the bank officials. Further it
 appears that she had in fact not given an
 unqualified report and advised the Bank that
 before creating an equitable mortgage it should
 obtain further documents, which evidently it did
 not. In the circumstances, it is difficult to hold that
 there was material available to show, even prima
 facie, that the petitioner intended to cheat or
 defraud the Bank or acted in criminal conspiracy
 with the other accused to commit the offences in
 question. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (iv) In case CBI Vs. K. Narayana Rao (supra), panel
advocate was charge-sheeted on the ground that he had submitted a
false report. In this case also, Apex Court held that mere submitting a
false report does not attract any criminal liability. In this regard, para
22, 23, 26 and 27 are relevant and same are reproduced as under: 52. In the instant case also, the mere allegations against
A7 are that she had submitted a false report about the collateral
security. Except that there is no other cogent evidence on record to
show that she was a member of the conspiracy. Similarly, there is no
cogent evidence on record to show that she had taken any monetary
benefit from any person to furnish the said report. It is admitted case
of CBI that the report had been furnished on the basis of documents
furnished by the bank and the inspection carried out for the period
mentioned in the report. Besides that she advised the bank to take
certain precaution which bank was required to take before
sanctioning the limits in favour of borrower. Even, no inherent defect
was found in her report, when it was scrutinised by the Legal
Department of the bank. In these circumstances, if we apply the
above settled proposition of law, I am of the considered opinion that
there is no sufficient material on record to make out a prima-facie
against A7 Rekha Anand. Thus, in my opinion, she deserves
discharge from all the charges, accordingly, I hereby, discharge her
from all the charges. Role of A3 Nandita Bakashi :- 53. Though in the charge-sheet, it is alleged that she CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 72 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others along with other accused persons had hatched a criminal conspiracy
to cheat the bank, yet there is no cogent evidence in this regard. The
role attributed to A3 is that she had furnished a bank guarantee in
favour of the borrower. Except that no other role is attributed to A3.
During course of arguments, it is not disputed that A3 had not
furnished the guarantee in favour of A1, when A1 availed the various
credit limits from the bank. Simultaneously, it is argued that furnishing
a guarantee in favour of the borrower does not attract any criminal
liability. Admittedly, there is no allegation against A3 that the
documents furnished by her were false or fabricated or forged. It is
admitted case of the CBI that A3 had also obtained loan from the
bank and in the said matter, she is facing trial but this itself is not
sufficient to arrive at a conclusion that she was in collusion with A1 in
the present case. I found substance in the contention of learned
counsel that if A3 had been in conspiracy with A1, she would not have
either furnished the guarantee or she would not have furnished her
genuine papers of the property. No doubt, A3 knew A1 and A2
previously but this itself is not sufficient to arrive at a conclusion that
she was the member of the conspiracy. To prove the conspiracy,
prosecution has to show prima-facie that there was some agreement
between them for doing an illegal act or an act which was not illegal
by illegal means. But there is no evidence in this regard. Indisputably,
A3 is facing trial for obtaining credit facility from the bank by
furnishing forged and fabricated documents. But it is admitted case of
CBI that all the three offences were committed in furtherance of
separate conspiracy and all the offences were distinct and separate CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 73 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others and due to that reason, separate FIRs were registered. Thus, mere
fact that A3 is facing trial for obtaining credit facility from the bank on
the basis of forged documents is not sufficient in the present case to
arrive at a conclusion that she was in the conspiracy with A1. It is
admitted case of CBI that in M/s Juniper Jewellery case, A1 was the
co-accused but she was discharged by the Hon'ble High Court as no
evidence was found against her. Similarly, in the instant case also,
there is no other allegation against A3 except that she had furnished
a guarantee in favour of A1. As already stated that no infirmity was
found in the papers, which she executed in the present case, thus it
cannot be said that her act i.e furnishing guarantee in favour of A1
attracts any criminal liability. In the absence of any other cogent
evidence on record, I am of the considered opinion that collected
material is insufficient to make out a prima-facie case against A3, thus
I hereby discharge her from all the charges. Role of A6 U.R.G. Bhatt :- 54. It is undisputed fact that A6 was working as Chief
Manager at Chandni Chowk Branch. It is also undisputed fact that he
had sanctioned the limit initially on January 10, 1998. From the
statement of PW21, prima-facie it appears that A5 (Sanjay Malik)
knew A6 and A5 offered A2 and A3 that he would get loan sanctioned
to them as he had acquaintance with some Bank Managers. But there
is nothing in the statement that A5 told the accused persons that he
would get sanctioned the said loan from A6 illegally or contrary to the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 74 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others Rules and Regulations of the bank. Mere fact that A6 knew A5 is not
sufficient to draw a conclusion that A6 was the member of the
conspiracy. To establish the conspiracy even prima-facie, there must
be some evidence to show that there was some agreement between
them for doing an illegal act or an act for doing act which is not illegal
by illegal means. (i) Learned Public Prosecutor insisted that there is
sufficient evidence on record to show that A6 entertained the accused
persons in his cabin which shows that he was in conspiracy with the
accused persons but I do not find any substance in the said
contention because it is admitted case of CBI that A6 was working as
Chief Manager of the Branch and the accused persons approached
him along with A5 for various kinds of limits. Being the Chief Manager,
it was his duty to attend his customers in a congenial atmosphere. It
is pertinent to mention here that being the Chief Manager, it was his
duty to procure business for the bank. In order to procure business, it
is minimum requirement that the borrower be attended by the bank
properly in a congenial and cordial atmosphere. Now-a-days even
bank officers attend their customers at their office/residence. Thus,
mere fact that A6 had attended the accused persons in his cabin is
not sufficient to hold even prima-facie that he was in conspiracy with
them. (ii) Admittedly, there is no iota of evidence on record that
A6 had taken any monetary benefit whatsoever from any of the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 75 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others accused persons. Had A6 be in conspiracy with the accused persons
or he had some malafide intention, he would certainly have obtained
some illegal consideration or indirect benefit from the borrower but
there is no evidence in this regard. 55. Now question arises whether A6 had shown any
undue favour to the borrower which may show that he had acted in
furtherance of any conspiracy. (i) It is admitted case of CBI that the loan proposal was
processed by PW2 and PW3 and they put up the proposal before A6
being the Chief Manager with a recommendation to sanction the
credit limit. On the basis of their recommendations, A6 examined the
proposal and their recommendation and thereafter, he sanctioned the
various credit limits. However, at the time of sanctioning the limits, A6
imposed as many as 8 conditions. If A6 was acting in furtherance of
any conspiracy with the borrower, he would not have imposed the
additional conditions; rather he would simply approve the
recommendations made by his subordinates. This shows that A6 had
made an attempt to protect the interest of bank by putting numerous
additional conditions on the borrower. Mere fact that later on it was
revealed that the borrower had furnished some false documents in
order to obtain the credit limits does not mean that A6 was the
member of the conspiracy. (ii) During investigation, CBI had examined PW2 H.S. CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 76 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others Bhist, who in his statement testified that he visited business premises
of the firm and found that there was sufficient stock to cover their
finance. He further testified that he had visited the collateral security
i.e. property located at Mandawali, Fazalpur, Abadi, Ganesh Nagar,
Shahdara, Delhi and the property was identified by A4. From the bare
perusal of the statement of PW2, it becomes clear that the stock was
found sufficient to grant the credit limits sought by the borrower and
PW2 also satisfied with the collateral security. (iii) PW3 Sachidanand, Manager of the bank in his
statement testified that collateral security of landed property was not
essential and it depends upon case to case and to the satisfaction of
the competent authority. Similarly, PW19 in his statement testified that
collateral security was not essential to grant credit facility. But in this
case, A6 had also asked the borrower to furnish collateral security. It
means that A6 asked additional security from the borrower in order to
protect the interest of bank. Had A6 be in conspiracy with the accused
persons, he would not have asked for additional security; rather he
would have sanctioned the loan on the basis of prime security i.e.
stock but he had not done so which prima-facie shows that he was
not the member of the conspiracy. (iv) So far the false report of A7 is concerned. There is
nothing on record, which may show that A6 was aware that the said
report was false. It is admitted case of CBI that the said report was
scrutinised by the Legal Department of the bank and no major CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 77 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others infirmity or illegality was found in the said report. In these
circumstances, there was no occasion for the Chief Manager to raise
any doubt over the said report. Mere fact that later on it was revealed
that the borrower had played some fraud is not sufficient to hold that
A6 was acting in furtherance of any conspiracy. As already discussed,
in the instant case, even there is no evidence to show that panel
advocate was in the conspiracy. It means that A7 had submitted the
report on the basis of record and documents and she did not find any
infirmity or illegality in the said documents. In these circumstances, if
A6 acted on the said report does not prove that he was in the
conspiracy with the borrower. (v) Though the loan proposal was processed by PW2 and
PW3 but they have not been impleaded as an accused. This shows
that CBI had not found any incriminating evidence against them. If
making recommendation to sanction the credit limit in favour of the
borrower was not sufficient to initiate any criminal action against PW2
and PW3, it is not clear how acting on their recommendations with
sufficient additional conditions can attract the criminal action against
A6. It is pertinent to state that there is no cogent evidence on the file
except the fact that A6 knew A5 and he attended the borrower in his
cabin, to show prima-facie that either he was member of the
conspiracy or he acted in furtherance of any such conspiracy. (vi) In the charge-sheet, it was alleged that it was the duty
of U.R.G. Bhatt to obtain opinion letter from the previous banker of CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 78 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others the borrower to verify the credential of borrower as exporter but A6
accepted the letter of Bank of Madura Ltd. without any verification,
accordingly, it was alleged that he was in conspiracy with the accused
persons. (vii) In this regard, the statement of PW4 Ajay Kumar
Bhatnagar, bank official is relevant. In his statement, he testified
before CBI that while processing the application for credit facilities, it
was ascertained whether the party had any account in any other
bank, if the party had any such account, same should be verified. He
further testified that on asking, borrower informed that she was
maintaining a current account in Bank of Madura Ltd., Nehru Place,
New Delhi. Accordingly, PW4 prepared a letter and bank of Madura
Ltd. confirmed that M/s Anamika Enterprises was maintaining a
current account bearing No. 27921 in the bank. Though the letter
which was prepared by PW4 is not part of the record as he testified
that the said letter is not available in the file. But from the statement of
PW4, it becomes clear that at the time of processing the application,
he issued a letter and thereafter certificate was obtained. There is
nothing on record which may show that the letter was either prepared
by A6 or he had given the said letter to the borrower. From the
statement of PW4, it becomes clear that the entire exercise of
obtaining the clarification from the previous banker was done while
processing the proposal of credit facilities. In these circumstances, I
do not find any substance in the allegation levelled by the CBI in the
charge-sheet that it was the duty of U.R.G. Bhatt to obtain opinion CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 79 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others from the previous banker personally or he had committed an offence,
if the bank had accepted the letter of Bank of Madura Ltd., which was
submitted by the borrower. (viii) So far as the question of placing reliance on the LSR
is concerned, it is pertinent to mention here that the said report was
even examined by the Legal Department of the bank and no major
infirmity was found in the said report. Moreover, the said report was
also considered by the Accountant and Manager at the time of
making recommendation in favour of the borrower to grant various
kinds of credit limits. In these circumstances, no criminality can be
imposed on A6 mere on the ground that he also placed reliance on
the said report at the time of sanctioning the various kinds of limits in
favour of the borrower. 56. The next allegation against A6 is that he had made a
recommendation in favour of the borrower for enhancement of the
credit limit; consequently, Circle Office had enhanced the credit limit
to the tune of ` 1.75 crores. (i) To my mind, the said allegations are not relevant to
arrive at a conclusion even prima-facie that A6 was in conspiracy with
the accused persons because CBI had set up a case that A6 had
entered into a conspiracy with the borrower when the account was
opened and limit was sanctioned initially. There is no allegation in the
charge-sheet that A6 entered into conspiracy with the party at the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 80 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others time of enhancement of the limit. As already discussed, there is no
sufficient evidence on record to hold prima-facie that A6 was in
conspiracy at the time of sanctioning the limit initially. (ii) Moreover, perusal of the record reveals that A6 had
made a recommendation to the Circle Office for enhancement of
limits vide his letter dated September 15, 1998. During course of
arguments, CBI has failed to point out what wrong fact, he had
mentioned in the said letter, which induced the Circle Office to
enhance the limit. (iii) On the contrary, it is admitted case of CBI that on
October 20, 1998, a meeting had taken place with the borrower (A1),
Guarantor (A3) and her father (A2). In the said meeting besides A6,
DGM, V.G. Prabhu and another officer from Circle Office named Sh.
L.K. Bansal were also present. During the said meeting, it was
noticed that there were certain defaults on the part of borrower.
Borrower also explained the reason for the said defaults and assured
the DGM that the outstanding payments would be cleared and there
will be no default. In the said meeting, borrower also requested to
enhance certain limits on ad-hoc basis to the tune of ` 15 lacs each.
Accordingly, DGM had enhanced the limits to the tune of ` 7.50 lacs
each. Bare perusal of the said meeting makes it clear that a detail
discussion had taken place between the bank officers on the one
hand and the borrower/guarantor on the other hand. After considering
the pros and cons, bank permitted the enhancement of limit on Ad- State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others hoc basis. (iv) Record further reveals that A6 vide his letter dated
September 15, 1998 made a recommendation to enhance the limit
and Circle Office enhanced the limit on December 17, 1998. As
already discussed that before enhancing the limit, there was a
meeting on October 20, 1998 between the borrower and Circle Office
and on the oral request of borrower, DGM had even enhanced the ad-
hoc limits to the tune of ` 7.5 lacs each. This shows that the Circle
Office was aware about the financial status of the borrower when the
Circle Office enhanced the limits as recommended by A6. (v) As already stated that there is nothing on record,
which may show that A6 had acted fraudulently or dishonestly by
mentioning wrong facts in his recommendation. In the absence of any
such evidence, it cannot be said that by recommending for
enhancement of the limit, A6 had committed any offence. Being the
Chief Manager, it was his duty to send a proposal mentioning all
relevant facts along with his recommendation to the Circle Office. As
already discussed, even Circle Office had called the party before
enhancement of the limit. Moreover, there is nothing on record, which
may show that A6 had misled the Circle office in any manner. (vi) On the contrary, the act of A6 sending the matter to
Circle office for enhancement of limit shows that he was not in
conspiracy with the borrower. Had he been in conspiracy with the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 82 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others borrower, he would have preferred to favour the party at his own level
without the involvement of the Circle office. But he preferred to refer
the matter to Circle office. Thus, to my mind, the said act of A6 is not
sufficient in any manner to hold even prima-facie that he was member
of any conspiracy. (vii) It is admitted case of CBI that there is no iota of
evidence on record to show that A6 had obtained any pecuniary
benefit or valuable thing either at the time of opening of the account
or sanctioning the limit initially or at the time of making
recommendation for enhancement of the limit. Even during
arguments prosecution has also failed to highlight about any major
lapse on the part of A6 either at the time of sanctioning the limits
initially or making recommendation for enhancement. 57. As already discussed, there are sufficient material on
record to show prima-facie that the borrower had obtained various
kinds of limits by producing fabricated/forged documents and fictitious
persons, which prima-facie shows that the borrower along with her
associates had hatched a criminal conspiracy to cheat the bank to
avail various kinds of limits on the basis of such documents. But CBI
claimed that in the said conspiracy, bank officer was also involved.
Before charge-sheeting a public servant, it is the duty of the CBI to
collect sufficient evidence to show at least prima-facie that there was
some conspiracy between the public servant and the private persons.
Mere fact that public servant had taken certain decision in discharge CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 83 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others of his official duties on the basis of documents placed by private
persons does not mean that he was also part of conspiracy or he
acted in furtherance of any conspiracy. There may be cases where
public servant acts in furtherance of conspiracy with private persons
in order to cause loss to the public exchequer but in such cases,
there must be some cogent admissible evidence on record.
Admittedly, in the instant case, there is no iota of evidence on record
to show even prima-facie that A6 obtained any pecuniary benefit or
valuable thing or he had any interest in the private persons. In such
circumstances, a question naturally arises in the mind of a prudent
person why a public servant would act against the interest of his
office. Mere fact that borrower succeeded in obtaining various kinds
of credit limits on the basis of forged documents/fictitious mortgagor
or the borrower failed to repay the payment by one reason or another
reason or the fact that certain documents were found forged/fake later
on does not ipso-facto show prima-facie that public servant had acted
in collusion with the private persons. (i) Assuming for the sake arguments, if the borrower had
not furnished any forged documents or fictitious persons or the
balance-sheet be genuine, does it mean that in such a scenario, there
would be no chance of having conspiracy of public servant with the
borrower. It depends upon case to case. There may be cases where
public servant may act in conspiracy with the private persons to
cause wrongful loss to the public exchequer and to cause wrongful
gain for himself or the persons in whom he has interest even by CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 84 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others acting within the parameters of Rules and Regulations.
Simultaneously, there may be cases where the public servant may
not be in conspiracy even in cases where the private persons
obtained certain benefits through public servant by inducing
dishonestly or misrepresentation the facts to the public servant and
the public servant fails to detect the said inducement or
misrepresenting at that very moment. Thus, to my mind, before
prosecuting a public servant, investigating agency should be more
careful. 58. In light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that there is no sufficient evidence on record
against U.R.G. Bhatt (A6) to make out a prima-facie case as
mentioned in the charge-sheet, accordingly, I hereby, discharge him
from all the charges. Conclusion :- 59. In the light of aforesaid discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that there are sufficient evidence on record to
make out a prima-facie case against Shreya Jha (A1), V.K. Jha (A2),
Shafiqur Rehman (A4), Sanjay Malik (A5), Vivek Sood (A8) and
Shashi Bala Sharma (A9) for the offence punishable under Section
120B read with Section 419 / 420 / 468 / 471 IPC. (i) There are also sufficient evidence on record to make out CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 85 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others a prima-facie case against Shreya Jha (A1) for the offence
punishable under Section 420 / 471 IPC. (ii) There are also sufficient evidence of record to make out
a prima-facie case against accused Shashi Bala Sharma (A9) for the
offence punishable under Section 419 / 468 / 471 IPC. (iii) However, I am of the considered opinion that collected
material is insufficient to make out a prima-facie case against Nandita
Bakshi (A3), U.R.G. Bhatt (A6) and Rekha Anand (A7), thus, I hereby
discharge all of them from all the charges. Now I proceed to examine the facts of CBI case No. 2/12 :- 60. Briefly stated facts of prosecution case are that
Nandita Bakshi (A1), V.K. Jha (A2), Shafiqur Rehman (A3) and
Sanjay Malik (A4) had formed a cartel and entered into a criminal
conspiracy with an intention to cheat different banks by way of
obtaining credit facilities/loan in the name of different companies/firms
in the name of Ms. Nandita Bakshi, V.K. Jha and in furtherance of the
said conspiracy, Sanjay Malik contacted U.R.G. Bhatt (A8), Chief
Manager of Chandni Chowk Branch. It was alleged that Shafiqur
Rehman (A3) had arranged forged title deeds of the properties which
were mortgaged with the bank as collateral securities and he also
arranged fictitious persons such as Kirpal Singh (A5), Raghubir Singh
(A6) and Rajan Kumar Nair (A7) who impersonated themselves as Jai CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 86 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others Dutt Sharma, Sukhdev Sharma and Shyam Lal Nair respectively. (i) It was alleged that in the month of April, 1998, A1 and
A2 approached Canara Bank, Chandni Chowk Branch with a request
for credit facilities for their firm i.e. M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery, of
which A1 was proprietrix. It was alleged that A1 had opened a current
account bearing No. 10144 on April 18, 1998 and on April 20, 1998,
she had submitted an application for credit facilities along with
photostate copy of profit and loss account and balance-sheet as on
March 31, 1996 and March 31, 1997, which was purportedly attested
by M/s G.N. Gupta and Associates, Chartered Accountant. (ii) It was further alleged that A8 had sanctioned
loan/credit facility in the name of M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery on
May 12, 1998 by opening GA account No. 1937 and ` 20 lacs was
sanctioned under open cash credit (OCC) and ` 20 lacs under (ILC)
account. (iii) It was alleged that A8 had sanctioned the loan/credit
facility in the name of said firm in gross violation of Banking Rules
and he merely sanctioned the above limits on the face value of A1
and A2 as they were Ex-IRS and Ex-IPS Officers respectively. It was
further alleged that A8 had sanctioned the said loan/facilities at the
instance of A4 without any verification of their credit worthiness and
past performance. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (iv) It was further alleged that U.R.G. Bhatt not only
sanctioned the limits in gross violation of Banking Rules but he also
permitted the borrower to release the cash credit limit of ` 20 lacs on
the very same day whereas revaluation report dated April 17, 1998
showed the valuation of the property at ` 18.60 lacs. It was alleged
that U.R.G. Bhatt had obtained the valuation report of another
property bearing No. N-106, G.K. Part-II, New Delhi, which was
submitted on June 08, 1998. It was further alleged that OCC limit of
` 20 lacs was released on May 14, 1998 whereas the mortgaged
deed was executed on June 10, 1998 in the name of Shyam Lal Nair. (v) It was further alleged that third party collateral
securities of the properties i.e. 737/18, Maidan Garhi, Delhi, which
stood in the name of Jai Dutt Sharma and Sukhdev Sharma and
property bearing No. 106, G.K. Part-II, New Delhi, which stood in the
name of Shyam Lal Nair, were accepted without proper verification of
the owners of the property despite the fact that while processing the
credit report, it was pointed out to Mr. U.R.G. Bhatt (A8) by the bank
officials about the over valuation of property bearing No. 737/18,
Maidan Garhi, Delhi. It was further alleged that since A8 was in
conspiracy, he did not care and accepted the second property as third
party collateral security along with first property and got it revaluation
and found the value at ` 18.60 lacs, which was much lower than the
earlier valuation of ` 73.80 lacs. (vi) It was further alleged that Legal Scrutiny Reports were CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 88 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others submitted by the party itself purportedly to have been issued by
Rekha Anand, Panel Advocate whereas she had not issued any such
report. (vii) It was further alleged that Shafiqur Rehman (A3) had
arranged collateral security as well as fictitious persons namely Kirpal
Singh (A5), Raghubir Singh (A6) and Rajan Kumar Nair (A7). It was
alleged that A5 and A6 were produced in the bank as Jai Dutt Sharma
and Sukhdev Sharma being the owners of the property located at
Village Maidan Garhi, Delhi with false copy of ration card along with
photograph of Kirpal Singh and Raghbir Singh. (viii) It was further alleged that the said property had been
sold by the original owner to one Sh. Rewati Raman Bhardwaj
through GPA on July 1, 1996. It was alleged that A3 had approached
Sh. Rewati Raman Bhardwaj for getting him bank loan and on this
pretext, he obtained the sale deed and copies of GPA. Later on, he
had returned the sale deed to him. It was alleged that Rewati Raman
Bhardwaj identified A5 as the associate of A3. (ix) It was further alleged that A7 had impersonated Mr.
Shyam Lal Nair, who was the owner of the property located at G.K.
Part-II, New Delhi and executed necessary documents in favour of
the bank. It was alleged that after the death of Shyam Lal Nair,
property had been sold to Mr. Anil Kapoor by the nephew of deceased
Shyam Lal Nair named Prem Kumar Nair. It was further alleged that CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 89 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others A7 had produced a forged ration card at the time of impersonating
Shyam Lal Nair. (x) It was further alleged that A4 in furtherance of the
conspiracy, introduced A1 and A2 to U.R.G. Bhatt, Chief Manager and
thereafter he acted as a middleman between them and facilitated for
the sanction of credit facility in pursuance of the said conspiracy to
cheat the bank. It was alleged that though A4 had not acted as
Chartered Accountant, but he was paid about ` 6.89 lacs through
various cheques from the account of M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery,
M/s Anubhuti Trading and M/s Balaji Export. The said companies
issued cheques in the name of his firm named M/s Perfect
Association and some cheques were issued in the name of his wife
Nita Malik. It was alleged that the said amount was paid as
remuneration for facilitating the sanction of loan/limits in the name of
different firms by exploiting his links with U.R.G. Bhatt. (xi) It was further alleged that accused Vivek Sood (A9) is
the brother of A1 and he entered into in a criminal conspiracy and in
furtherance of the said conspiracy, he aided and abetted in siphoning
of the fund from the account of M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery to the
account of M/s Anubhuti Trading, M/s Chanda Export and M/s Sunder
Diamonds and M/s Chanda International Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Swati Fine
Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. It was alleged that A9 was proprietor in the first
three firms whereas he was director in the last two companies. In M/s
Swati Fine Jewellery Pvt. Ltd., A1 was also one of the directors. It CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 90 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others was alleged that in the account of M/s Anubhuti Trading and M/s
Chanda Export, fund to the tune of ` 26,47,618/- and ` 1,68,83,988/-
respectively had been transferred through various cheques/demand
drafts, which were issued from the account of M/s Kamayani Fine
Jewellery. Similarly, an amount to the tune of ` 2,91,76,538.87 had
been deposited in the account of M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery
through various demand drafts and cheques. The said cheques were
issued from different banks. (xii) It was alleged that from the oral and documentary
evidence, it is established that A1 to A9 were party to the criminal
conspiracy and in furtherance of the said conspiracy, they
fabricated/got fabricated forged valuable property documents and
used the same to cheat the bank and obtained undue pecuniary
advantage on the basis of said forged/bogus documents, which were
submitted as collateral securities and their said acts caused wrongful
loss to the bank to the tune of ` 1,72,62,508.29 and corresponding
caused wrongful gain to them jointly and severally. (xiii) According, CBI had filed a charge-sheet for the
offence punishable under Section 120B IPC read with Section
409 / 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 IPC read with Section 13 (1) (d) of
Prevention of Corruption Act. It was alleged that A1 is also liable for
the offence punishable under Section 420 / 471 / 467 / 468 IPC. It was
alleged that A5 to A7 are also liable for the offence punishable under Section 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 IPC. It was further alleged that A8 CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 91 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others U.R.G. Bhatt is also liable for the offence punishable under Section
13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act and
under Section 409 IPC. 61. Learned counsel appearing for A1, A2 and A9
vehemently contended that on the basis of complaint of the bank, CBI
had already filed the charge-sheet in M/s Juniper Jewellery Pvt. Ltd.
case and in the said case, CBI had arrayed R.T. Nayak, G. Sampat
Kumar and Yogender Pal Singh as accused persons whereas in the
present case, CBI had cited them as witnesses. It was urged that this
practice is not tenable under law as both the cases were registered
on the basis of same complaint. (i) It was further astutely argued that though in the present
matter, it was alleged that the bank had not appointed Ms. Rekha
Anand to submit Legal Scrutiny Report, yet accused persons in order
to avail the credit facilities submitted a report purportedly to be signed
by Rekha Anand, Advocate, but surprisingly CBI did not deem it
appropriate to cite Rekha Anand as a witness. It was urged that this
shows that investigation had not been conducted in transparent
manner. (ii) It was further vigorously argued that the main
allegation against A1 is that she had dishonestly induced the bank to
sanction credit facilities in her favour by submitting forged and
fabricated documents. It was argued that in fact there is no material CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 92 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others on record to show that the borrower had any dishonest intention at
the time of making request for various kinds of credit facilities. It was
argued that mere fact that later on the borrower failed to maintain
financial discipline does not mean that the borrower had any
dishonest intention. (iii) It was vigorously argued that the loan/credit facilities
were sanctioned against prime security of stock and as per evidence
collected by CBI, the value of stock was sufficient to sanction the
loan, thus it was contended that if value of the primary stock was
sufficient to sanction the loan, it cannot be said that the borrower had
any dishonest intention to cheat the bank. It was submitted that there
is evidence on record to show that the borrower used to furnish detail
of the stock on monthly basis and same was used to analyse by the
bank and it was also physically verified by the bank. (iv) It was further contended that prime security was stock
in trade and it was audited by M/s Ashok & company and as per its
report dated May 22, 2000, value of stock was sufficient. Moreover,
this fact is also corroborated by PW2 and PW4 in their respective
statement. (v) It was further vehemently contended that A1 Nandita
Bakshi had produced her husband Rajeev Bakshi as one of the
guarantors but CBI did not even deem it appropriate either to cite him
as a witness or array as an accused. This shows that as per CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 93 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others investigation conducted by CBI, he was not part of the alleged
conspiracy. It was contended that if Nandita Bakshi had any
dishonest intention, she would not have produced her husband as a
guarantor. Similarly, if she had any dishonest intention, she would
hatch conspiracy with her husband and not with strangers. This
shows that Nandita Bakshi had no dishonest intention when she
applied for various kinds of credit facilities. (vi) It was further contended that it is admitted case of CBI
that enhancement was sanctioned by R.T. Nayak on the
recommendation of G. Sampat Kumar but neither of them has been
arrayed as an accused. This shows that the borrower was not in
conspiracy either with R.T. Nayak or G. Sampat Kumar. It was argued
that there is no evidence on record to show that R.T. Nayaik had
enhanced the limit on the recommendation of U.R.G. Bhatt, Chief
Manager, thus it cannot be said that the borrower was in conspiracy
with U.R.G. Bhatt. (vii) It was further contended that as per the statement of
PW2, PW4, PW5, PW10, PW15, PW16 and PW18, loan was
sanctioned in accordance with the procedure of banks and there is
nothing on record, which may show that the bank officials had
granted any undue favour to the borrower while dealing with her
request, thus it was urged that there is no evidence on record to show
that the borrower had any dishonest intention. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (viii) It was further contended that it is admitted case of
CBI that mortgaged properties were valued by PW40, panel valuer of
the bank and in his statement, he testified that he had physically
verified and measured the property. It was urged that this shows that
the property was in existence and its owner had not raised any
objection when the property was valued by PW40. (ix) It was further contended that there is no iota of
evidence on record to show that A1 had committed any forgery or she
used any forged document fraudulently to avail the credit facilities. It
was contended that even CBI had not conducted any investigation to
show prima-facie that the submitted documents were forged; or if any
forgery was committed, CBI failed to identify the persons, who
committed the alleged forgery. It was contended that the borrower
was not having any knowledge that the documents furnished by the
mortgagor were not genuine or they had committed any kind of
forgery. (x) It was further contended that there is no iota of
evidence against A2 V.K. Jha and A9 Vivek Sood. It was submitted
that A2 has been impleaded as an accused being the father of Shreya
Jha otherwise he had no role in the present matter. Similarly, A9 has
been impleaded as an accused merely being the brother of A1 and in
order to implead him, CBI had placed reliance on the same set of
documents which were used against him in connected matter i.e. CC
No. 1/12. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (xi) At last, it was argued that the borrower had already
made the entire payment to the bank in 2008 itself and even bank
had withdrawn the recovery suit from the Debt Recovery Tribunal. It
was thus urged that the said conduct of borrower further shows that
she had no dishonest intention. 62. Shri K.K. Patra, Advocate, counsel appearing for A4
Sanjay Malik contended that the main allegation against A4 is that
U.R.G. Bhatt had sanctioned loan at the instance of A4, which is
factually incorrect. It was argued that during investigation,
investigating officer had recorded the statement of PW18, who
testified that U.R.G. Bhatt had sanctioned the loan on his
recommendation. It was further argued that there is no allegation that
PW18 was in conspiracy either with the borrower or with U.R.G.
Bhatt. It was thus contended that if loan was sanctioned on the
recommendation of PW18, it cannot be said that U.R.G. Bhatt was in
conspiracy either with borrower or A4. It was further argued if U.R.G.
Bhatt be in conspiracy, he would not have put additional conditions to
protect the interest of the bank; rather he would have simply
sanctioned the loan but he had not done so, which again rules out the
possibility of his having in conspiracy either with A4 or borrower. (i) It was further contended that the name of A4 had been
inserted in the statement of PW18 and PW45 later on to create a
false evidence against him. Moreover, the said afterthought addition CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 96 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others is not helpful to the prosecution to prove the conspiracy against A4
because at the most the said addition may show that A4 knew the
borrower, but in the instant case, this fact is irrelevant because in
another matter, CBI had charge-sheeted the borrower along with R.T
Nayak and G. Sampat, which shows that the borrower knew even
higher officers of the bank. (ii) It was further contended that PW4 in his statement
testified that even the borrower had contacts in Ministry of Finance
and at one occasion, Mr. Rana from Ministry of Finance made a call
to the Circle Office to extend help to the borrower. It was argued that
in these circumstances, it cannot be said that bank had sanctioned
the loan mere at the asking of the Sanjay Malik. It was further
contended that from the statement of the witnesses recorded by CBI,
it can safely be culled out that the loan was sanctioned as per the
procedure of the bank and no undue favour had been shown to the
borrower particularly at the instance of Sanjay Malik. 63. Shri Islam Khan, Advocate, counsel appearing for A3
contended that A3 had been impleaded as an accused on the basis of
two cheques both dated November 15th & 17th , 1997 in the sum of `
3.15 lacs and ` 1.74 lacs, which were issued in his favour by M/s
Balaji Exports and M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery respectively. It was
argued that it is admitted case of CBI that in the instant case
conspiracy, if any, was hatched in April, 1998 when an application
was submitted to the bank for various kinds of credit limits. It was CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 97 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others argued that if conspiracy was hatched in April, 1998, it is not clear
how the said payments are relevant to prove the conspiracy. Even
CBI had not impleaded M/s Balaji Export as an accused, who issued
the cheques in favour of A3. (i) It was further contended that in order to rope A3 in the
alleged conspiracy, CBI placed reliance on the statement of PW6 and
PW7, it was urged that but no reliance can be placed on their
statements as the same are vague and insufficient to connect the
accused with the alleged conspiracy. It was further contended that
moreover A6 did not state that the property in question was valued at
the behest of A3. Similarly, PW7 testified that the property was
physically inspected and he did not state about the valuation of the
property. On the contrary, PW30 deposed that the property was
valued at the instance of bank. It was further submitted that the
statement of PW29, PW42 and PW45 are also not relevant to attract
any criminal liability. 64. Shri Rajpal Singh, Advocate, counsel appearing on
behalf of accused U.R.G. Bhatt (A8) contended that the main
allegations against A8 are that he had committed gross violation of
Banking Rules at the time of granting credit facility in favour of A1 and
he had permitted the bank to release the cash limit of ` 20 lacs on the
very same day despite the fact that as per the revaluation report
dated April 17, 1999, property was valued at ` 18.60 lacs. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (i) It was contended that the borrower had opened a
current account on April 20, 1998, and at that time, borrower had
moved an application for open cash credit facility, which was
processed and examined by PW18, who put up a note before A8 with
his recommendation to sanction OCC and ILC of ` 20 lacs each and
in his note, he mentioned the value of said property at ` 73.80 lacs. It
was contended that the said note was dealt with by A8 first time on
May 11, 1998; when he called the party for the purpose of discussion
and thereafter on the basis of recommendation made by PW18, A8
sanctioned the limit with six additional conditions including that limit
shall be released only after obtaining satisfactory OPL from the Bank
of Madura Ltd. It was argued that as per the documents placed by
CBI, all the conditions that were imposed by A8, were fulfilled by the
borrower on May 14, 1998 under the supervision of PW18 and
thereafter A8 permitted to release the limit on May 16, 1998. Thus, it
was argued that the allegation of the CBI that A8 had released the
limit on the same day is contrary to the record. (ii) It was further contended that on August 11, 1998,
borrower had moved an application for transfer of the account to
Parliament Street Branch, accordingly, the account was transferred
on August 21, 1998. At the time of transferring the account, Branch of
A8 had sent all relevant documents to Parliament Street Branch
stating that at that time, the total outstanding amount in the account of
borrower was ` 42,31,576.94 and in this regard, Chandni Chowk
Branch had raised BAR (Branch Advise Requisition) with the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 99 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others Parliament Street Branch. It was contended that after August 21,
1998, A8 had no control or connection with the said account in any
manner. (iii) It was further contended that after transfer of the said
account, Parliament Street Branch opened a fresh account of the
borrower on August 22, 1998 and got executed all relevant
documents including fresh hypothecation of the stock. Thereafter,
Parliament Street Branch enhanced the limits from time to time. It
was contended that if A8 had been in conspiracy with the borrower,
he would not have transferred the account; rather he would persuade
the borrower to continue the account with his branch so that he could
favour him easily without any hindrance, but A8 immediately
transferred the account. This shows that he was not in conspiracy in
any manner with the borrower. (iv) It was contended that from the letter dated October
16, 1999, it transpires that several enhancements were sanctioned in
favour of the borrower after transfer of the account and this was the
main cause of accumulation of the loss to the tune of ` 1.72 crores. (v) It was further vehemently contended that only two
witnesses deposed against A8 i.e. PW18 and PW45, but contended
that no reliance can be placed on their statement because the same
are contrary to the record. It was contended that though PW18
testified that when the limit was sanctioned by A8 on his CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 100 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others recommendation, he came to know that the valuation of the property
was on higher side, accordingly, he informed A8 but A8 ignored his
advice and released the limit immediately. On the contrary, PW45
deposed that initially property was valued at ` 73.80 lacs but later on
he realised that it was on higher side, accordingly, he informed PW18,
who directed him to physically inspect the site, accordingly, PW45
inspected the site and assessed the property between ` 15 lacs to
` 18 lacs. PW45 further testified that thereafter PW18 informed
U.R.G. Bhatt. It was contended that there is no document on record
to show that PW18 had ever informed about the said revaluation of
the property. Admittedly, PW18 had not put up any note before PW8
in this regard. (vi) It was further contended that there is no iota of
evidence on record to show that A8 was in conspiracy in any manner. 65. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of A5 Kirpal
Singh submitted that he is an illiterate person and he was approached
by Shafiqur Rehman to execute the documents in favour of the
borrower and he was not aware about the consequences of his act. It
was submitted that A5 had been used in this case and he became the
victim of the conspiracy hatched by other accused persons. 66. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for CBI refuted
the contentions raised by counsel for the accused persons and
submitted that there are ample evidence on record to show that the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 101 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others accused persons had hatched a conspiracy to cheat the bank and in
furtherance of the conspiracy, A1 opened a current account in Canara
Bank, Chandni Chowk Branch. Thereafter, she had moved an
application for various kinds of credit facilities. It was further
contended that Sanjay Malik introduced A1 and A2 to U.R.G. Bhatt,
Chief Manager. It was further contended that at the time of availing
various kinds of facilities, A1 had produced fictitious audited balance-
sheet and profit and loss account. Though the said balance-sheet and
profit and loss accounts were not prepared by Sanjay Malik, but he
was paid by the accused persons. It was further contended that A1
had produced fictitious persons to execute the documents and
mortgaged the property in favour of the bank, which shows that she
had dishonest intention since inception. It was further contended that
mere fact that later on A1 had repaid the loan amount is not sufficient
to exonerate her from the charges. It was further argued that U.R.G.
Bhatt had violated the Banking Rules at the time of sanctioning loan
and this fact is clear from the statement of PW18 and PW45, which
proves that A8 had ignored the advice of PW18 that the valuation of
the mortgaged property is a quite meagre and was not sufficient to
grant credit facilities to the borrower but he ignored the same as he
was in conspiracy with the accused persons. It was further contended
that V.K. Jha is also involved in the said conspiracy and he was the
brain behind the alleged conspiracy. Similarly, A9 helped A1 to siphon
of the fund, thus prima-facie there is sufficient material on record to
show that he was also involved in the conspiracy. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others 67. I have heard rival submissions advanced by counsel
for both the parties, perused the record carefully and gave my
thoughtful consideration to their contentions. 68. First question emerges for adjudication whether there
is any evidence on record to show prima-facie that there was any
dishonest intention on the part of borrower at the time of applying for
various kinds of facilities with Canara Bank, Chandni Chowk Branch,
Delhi. 69. As per charge-sheet, at the time of applying for
various kinds of credit facilities, borrower had annexed photostate
copy of profit and loss account and balance-sheet for the financial
year ending March 31, 1996 and March 31, 1997 purportedly to be
attested by M/s G.N. Gupta and Associates, Chartered Accountant.
However, during investigation, it was revealed that the said balance-
sheet was never audited by the said firm. In this regard, the statement
of PW G.N. Gupta and Vinay Kumar Goel are quite relevant. On
perusal of their testimony, it would become prima-facie clear that they
had never conducted the audit of the books of accounts of M/s
Kamayani Fine Jewellery and they did not know the borrower (A1).
Since, A1 had submitted documents along with her application at the
time of seeking various kinds of credit facilities from the bank, she
has to explain who had conducted the audit of the books of account
of her firm. Since, prima-facie prosecution has established that the
books of accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 1996 and CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 103 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others March 31, 1997 were not audited by the Chartered Accountants as
purportedly mentioned in the annexed photocopy of profit and loss
account and balance-sheet, thus onus is shifted upon her to explain
from whom she had got audited the books of account. At this stage,
there is no reason to disbelieve the statement of witnesses recorded
by the CBI. (i) It is also undisputed fact that at the time of obtaining
various kinds of facilities from the bank, borrower had also produced
Kirpal Singh (A5), Raghubir Singh (A6) being the owner of the
property located at Khasra No. 737/18, Village Maidan Garhi, Tehsil
Mehrauli and she also produced one Rajan Kumar Nair being the
owner of property bearing No. N-106, G.K. Part-II, New Delhi.
However, during investigation, it was also revealed that property
located at Maidan Garhi did not belong to A5 and A6; rather it
belonged to one Jai Dutt Sharma and Sukhdev Sharma. During
investigation, it was revealed that Jai Dutt Sharma and Sukhdev
Sharma had not executed any document in favour of the bank; nor
they mortgaged their property with the bank. From the statement of
witnesses recorded by CBI prima-facie it is established that A5 and
A6 had represented themselves as Jai Dutt Sharma and Sukhdev
Sharma respectively, thus they impersonated themselves as Jai Dutt
Sharma and Sukhdev Sharma. Not only they impersonated
themselves as Jai Dutt Sharma and Sukhdev Sharma but they also
produced forged ration card to claim themselves as Jai Dutt Sharma
and Sukhdev Sharma while impersonating themselves and CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 104 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others mortgaging the said property in favour of the borrower. (ii) Similarly, at the time of seeking the loan, borrower had
also produced one Rajan Kumar Nair (A7) being the owner of
property bearing No. N-106, G.K. Part-II, New Delhi. However, during
investigation, it was revealed that the said property did not belong to
him; rather it belonged to Shyam Lal Nair. It was also revealed that
after the death of Shyam Lal Nair, the property had been sold to Anil
Kapoor by the nephew of Shyam Lal Nair named Prem Kumar Nair.
A7 also produced forged ration card at the time of impersonating
himself as Shyam Lal Nair. Thus, prima-facie there are sufficient
evidence on record to show that A7 was not the owner of the
property; which was mortgaged with the bank in favour of the
borrower. (iii) Since, A5, A6 and A7 appeared before the bank and
executed the documents on behalf of the borrower in connection with
the sanction of various kinds of limit, thus the borrower has to explain
how the said persons appeared and executed the documents before
the bank when they were not the owner of the said property. (iv) From the above, prima-facie it becomes clear that the
borrower had not only produced forged/fake audited balance-sheet
and profit and loss account but also produced fictitious persons to
execute equitable mortgage of their property with the bank. Now,
question arises whether in these circumstances, can it be said that CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 105 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others there was no dishonest intention on the part of the borrower while
applying for various kinds of limits? To my mind, answer is in
negative. (v) No doubt, various kinds of credit facilities were
sanctioned on the basis of prime security of stock and the value of
stock was found sufficient as contended by learned defence counsel.
But question arises whether bank was ready to sanction various kinds
of credit limits only on the basis of prime security. Answer is in
negative. And probably, due to that reason, bank asked the borrower
to furnish collateral security. If bank was not ready to sanction the
requisite loans/credit facility only on the basis of prime security, it
cannot be said that the borrower had no dishonest intention because
the value of the prime security was sufficient enough to sanction the
loan. Since, the borrower had not only produced forged/fake
documents but also produced fictitious persons in order to get the
loan sanctioned from the bank, I am of the view that it cannot be said
at this stage that the borrower had no dishonest intention. (vi) By producing the forged/fake documents and fictitious
persons, borrower had induced the bank to sanction the loan/credit
facility in her favour, thus prima-facie there are sufficient evidence on
record to make out a prima-facie case against the A1. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others Role of V.K. Jha (A2) :- 70. The only allegation against A2 V.K. Jha is that he had
introduced the account of Nandita and he met U.R.G. Bhatt 3-4 times
along with Nandita Bakshi and Sanjay Malik. Except that, no other
role is attributed to him. It is admitted case of CBI that V.K. Jha is the
father of Shreya Jha and he used to look after the business of Shreya
Jha. It is also admitted case of CBI that Shreya Jha had also taken
loan from the same branch. It is also admitted case of CBI that
Sanjay Malik used to visit the office of Nandita Bakshi and V.K. Jha
and when they desired to get loan, Sanjay Malik offered his service to
them stating that he had links in the bank. It is also admitted case of
CBI that V.K. Jha knew Nandita Bakshi since long and he had
transactions with the bank. In these circumstances, if V.K. Jha had
introduced the account of Nandita Bakshi does not mean that he was
in conspiracy with Nandita Bakshi and others. Similarly, mere fact that
he met with U.R.G. Bhatt in the bank is not sufficient to draw any
conclusion that he was a member of the conspiracy either with
Nandita Bakshi or with any other accused persons. As already
discussed, V.K. Jha used to meet with U.R.G. Bhatt in connection
with the loan in favour of his daughter Shreya Jha in another matter,
thus, to my mind, there is no sufficient evidence on record to show
prima-facie that V.K. Jha was the member of the conspiracy in the
present matter. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others Role of accused Vivek Sood (A9) :- 71. As per charge-sheet, allegations against A9 is that he
is brother of A1 and he was in conspiracy with A1. In furtherance of
the conspiracy, he had opened an account in the name of various
firms such as M/s Anubhuti Trading, M/s Chanda Export and M/s
Sunder Diamonds as the proprietorship concern and he was also
director in M/s Chanda International Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Swati Fine
Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. As per allegations, the said accounts were opened
to siphon of the fund from the account of M/s Kamayani Fine
Jewellery Ltd. As per charge-sheet, a sum of ` 26,47,618/- was
transferred in the account of M/s Anubhuti Trading whereas a sum of
` 1,68,83,988/- was transferred in the account of M/s Chanda Export
from the account of M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery Ltd. At present,
there is no evidence to justify the said transactions, thus prima-facie
sufficient to make out a case that the said transfer was in furtherance
of the conspiracy hatched by A1. Thus, to my mind, prima-facie there
is sufficient evidence on record to hold that A9 was the member of the
conspiracy. 72. I found some substance in the contention raised by
learned defence counsel Sh. Srinivasan that there are certain lapses
in the investigation such as there is no explanation from the CBI why
CBI had not cited Rekha Anand as a witness to establish that she had
not submitted Legal Scrutiny Report as alleged by the borrower and
what is justification to cite R.T. Nayak, G. Sampat Kumar and CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 108 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others Yogender Pal Singh as prosecution witnesses when they are
themselves facing trial along with Nandita Bakshi in the connected
matter. But the said lapses cannot be looked into in detail at this
stage, thus the same are not helpful to the accused at this stage in
any manner. Role qua Safiqur Rehman (A3):- 73. It is admitted case of CBI that in the instant case the
alleged conspiracy had been hatched in the month of April 1998,
when the application was submitted with the bank for taking loan. It is
also admitted case of CBI that the payment of ` 3.15 lac and ` 1.74
lac were made to Safiqur Rehman (A3) in November 1997 from the
account of M/s Balaji Export and M/s Kamayani Fine Jewellery Ltd.
In other words, it is admitted case of CBI that the alleged payments
were made to A3 prior to hatching the alleged conspiracy. But in the
charge-sheet, CBI failed to explain how the said payments are
relevant to connect A3 with the alleged conspiracy. Even during
course of arguments, learned Public Prosecutor failed to explain how
the said payments are relevant to connect A3 with the alleged
conspiracy. (i) However, there are certain evidence on record to show
that A3 was involved in the affairs of valuation of landed properties,
which were mortgaged with the bank as a collateral security. In this
regard, the statement of PW6, PW7, PW29, PW42 and PW45 are CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 109 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others quite relevant. On perusal of their statements, prima-facie it appears
that accused Shafiqur Rehman (A3) was involved in the affairs of
valuation of the landed properties, which were furnished as collateral
security with the bank by the borrower. From the statement of PW29
Rewati Raman Bhardwaj prima-facie it appears that A3 had obtained
his property documents on the pretext to arrange the loan for him but
later on it was revealed that said property documents were
mortgaged with the bank through fictitious person i.e. A5 & A6. In
view of the above said evidence, I am of considered opinion that at
this stage it cannot be said that he was not a member of alleged
conspiracy as contended by learned defence counsel. Role qua A4 Sanjay Malik:- 74. As per the charge-sheet, there are two main
allegations against A4, firstly; that he introduced the borrower to the
Chief Manager U.R.G. Bhatt (A8), who sanctioned the loan at the
instance of A4 without verifying the credit worthiness and past
performance of the borrower and secondly, that borrower had paid a
sum of ` 8.85 lac to A4 for rendering his service i.e. to act as a middle
man between borrower and U.R.G. Bhatt. (i) During investigation CBI recorded the statement of
PW18 Sachidanad, the then Manager of the bank, who categorically
testified before the CBI that the limits were sanctioned by U.R.G.
Bhatt (A8) on his recommendation. If credit limits were sanctioned on CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 110 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others the recommendation of PW18, it is not clear on what basis it has
been alleged that the loan had been sanctioned at the behest of A4.
Admittedly, PW18 had not been arrayed as an accused by the CBI,
which shows that PW18 was not in conspiracy either with U.R.G.
Bhatt or with the borrower. In other words, PW18 made the
recommendation in favour of borrower independently after analysing
the documents submitted by the borrower. If it was so, there is hardly
any reason to believe that the loan was sanctioned at the behest of
A4. (ii) No doubt, there is certain evidence on record to show
that A4 had acquaintance with U.R.G.Bhatt but this does not prove
even prima-facie that U.R.G. Bhatt had sanctioned the loan just at the
face value of A4 violating the rules and regulations of the bank.
Since, A4 had acquaintance with U.R.G. Bhatt (A8), it shows that A4
had introduced the borrower to U.R.G.Bhatt due to his acquaintance
with him. But this fact is not sufficient to draw a conclusion even
prima-facie that either A4 was in conspiracy or U.R.G.Bhatt had
sanctioned the loan just at the behest of A4. (iii) I also found substance in the contention of learned
defence counsel that name of A4 had been added subsequently in
the statement of PW18 and PW45. Perusal of their statements
reveals that their statements were typed on computer but later on the
name of Sanjay Malik had been inserted by hand in ink in the
statement of PW18 whereas three lines were added by hand in ink in CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 111 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others the statement of PW45. The impact of said insertion in the statement
of PW18 and PW45 is that an attempt has been made to show that
Sanjay Malik (A4) visited the bank along with Mr. V. K. Jha and Mr.
Nandita Bakshi and U.R.G. Bhatt used to meet them in his cabin.
However, to my mind, this insertion is not helpful to the prosecution to
rope A4 in the conspiracy in any manner because it is on record that
A4 knew U.R.G. Bhatt previously and from the statement of PW46, it
becomes clear that A4 used to file income tax returns of U.R.G. Bhatt.
Probably, due to said affinity, U.R.G. Bhatt used to meet A4 along with
his companions in his cabin. Moreover, being the Chief Manager, it
was the duty of U.R.G. Bhatt to attend his customers in a congenial
atmosphere, thus mere fact that U.R.G Bhatt met with Sanjay Malik
and is associates in his cabin does not show even prima-facie that
U.R.G. Bhatt had sanctioned the loan either at the behest of Sanjay
Malik or he was in conspiracy with them. (iv) During investigation, CBI had also recorded the
statement of PW4 Rohidas Timmappa Nayak. In his statement, he
testified that during oral discussion, Circle GM mentioned that he had
received a telephonic call from one Mr. Rana, who was working in
Ministry of Finance who requested to extend help to the party. But
PW4 swiftly added that no credence was given to the said request as
party was not prompt in meeting the commitments/assurances made
earlier. However, his statement reflects that borrower had links even
in Ministry of Finance. Further, it is admitted case of CBI that
borrower had been charge-sheeted in the connected matter along CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 112 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others with R.T. Nayak and Mr. Sampat i.e. higher officers of the Circle
office, which shows prima-facie that it is admitted case of CBI that
borrower was in conspiracy even with the higher officers of the bank.
In these circumstances, it is seldom to believe that U.R.G. Bhatt had
sanctioned the limits just at the instance of Sanjay Malik. No doubt, in
the charge-sheet it is also alleged that certain payments were made
to A4 in lieu of rendering his service as a middle man between
borrower and the bank. Assuming for the sake of arguments that the
alleged payments had been made by the borrower to Sanjay Malik,
but this merely shows that Sanjay Malik had rendered his services to
the borrower against consideration. Surprisingly, on the one hand CBI
claimed that Sanjay Malik and borrower were in conspiracy with the
sanctioning authority i.e. U.R.G. Bhatt but on the other hand, CBI also
recited in the charge-sheet categorically that Sanjay Malik had
exploited his links with U.R.G. Bhatt. If Sanjay Malik had exploited
his links with U.R.G. Bhatt, how it can be said that U.R.G. Bhatt was
in conspiracy either with Sanjay Malik or with any other accused
persons. 75. Similarly, CBI in the charge-sheet alleged that Sanjay
Malik was a middle man and probably due to that reason, borrower
had paid money to Sanjay Malik for the services rendered by him. To
avail the services of any professional in obtaining the loan is not
sufficient to draw a conclusion even prima-facie that the said
professional was in conspiracy with the borrower. In the absence of
any other cogent evidence on record, I am of the considered opinion CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 113 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others that the collected material is not sufficient to make out a prima-facie
case against A4 Sanjay Malik. Accordingly, I hereby discharge him
from all the charges. Role qua A5 Kirpal Singh :- 76. As per charge-sheet, A5 impersonated himself as Jai
Dutt Sharma and while impersonating so he executed the documents
relating to collateral security with the bank in favour of the borrower.
While executing the said documents, A5 also produced forged ration
card. From the GEQD report prima-facie it is proved that A5 is the
person who executed the documents relating to collateral securities
before the bank after impersonating himself as Jai Dutt Sharma.
Thus, prima-facie there is sufficient evidence on record to prove that
he was involved in the alleged conspiracy. Simultaneously, he is also
liable for the substantive offences punishable under Section
419 / 468 / 471 IPC. Role attributed to A8 U.R.G. Bhatt :- 77. As per charge-sheet, allegations against U.R.G.Bhatt
(A8) are that he had sanctioned loan/credit facilities in favour of
borrower in gross violation of banking rules; secondly that he ignored
the advice of his subordinate that on revaluation it was found that the
valuation of collateral security was at ` 18.60 lac and not ` 73.80 lac;
thirdly, that he released the cash credit limits on the very same day; State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others fourthly, that A8 caused the wrongful loss to the bank to the tune of
` 1,72,62,508.29. 78. It is undisputed fact that the borrower had got opened
a current account bearing No. 10144 on April 18, 1998 and on April
20, 1998 borrower had submitted an application for credit facilities. It
is also undisputed fact that the said application was processed and
examined by Manager Credit i.e. PW18 Sachidanad who put up a
note before A8 with a recommendation to sanction OCC and ILC of
` 20 lac each. In his recommendation, PW18 mentioned the value of
collateral security at ` 73.80 lac. The said note was put up before
U.R.G.Bhatt on May 5, 1998. On receipt of said note U.R.G.Bhatt
called the borrower and discussion had taken place with the borrower
on May 11, 1998. Thereafter, on the basis of discussion and
recommendation made by PW18, U.R.G.Bhatt had sanctioned the
loan/credit facilities as recommended by PW18. While sanctioning
the loan, A8 had imposed six additional conditions including that limit
shall be released only after obtaining satisfactory OPL from Bank of
Mudura Ltd. All the conditions that were imposed by A8 were fulfilled
on May 14, 1998 under the supervision of PW18. Thereafter, A8
permitted the bank to release the limit only on May 16, 1998. Thus,
the allegation of the CBI that U.R.G.Bhatt had released the Cash
Credit Limit on the very same day of sanction is contrary to the
record. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others 79. Now coming to the question whether A8 had ignored
the advice of PW18 regarding the less valuation of the collateral
security. 80. As per the process note, valuation of the collateral
security was ` 73.80 lac. PW18 in his statement testified before the
CBI that before releasing the limits, property bearing Khasra No.
737/18 had been physically inspected by Mr. P. P. Singh and he
reported to him that the valuation of the said property at ` 73.80 lac
seemed to be on very higher side. Accordingly, PW18 reported the
matter to the Chief Manager and asked him not to release the limit till
the pendency of clearance regarding the valuation of property. He
further deposed that Mr. U. R. G. Bhatt informed him that borrower
was arranging additional property to cover the loan amount and
thereafter, he wrote the remarks "Permitted ` 20 lac" only on May 16,
1998. (i) In other words PW18 tried to say that after sanction of
the loan but before releasing of the limit, Mr. P. P. Singh inspected the
property in question physically and found that valuation of the
property was on the higher side. Consequently, Mr. P. P. Singh
informed PW18, who consequently informed Mr. U.R.G. Bhatt, but he
released the limit against his advice. In other words, CBI case is that
since U.R.G. Bhatt released the payment knowingly well that the
valuation of collateral security was less, he did so as he was in
conspiracy with the borrower. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (ii) As per the statement of PW18 Mr. P. P. Singh had
physically inspected the property between May 12, 1998 when the
loan was sanctioned by U.R.G. Bhatt and on May 16, 1998 when
U.R.G. Bhatt permitted to release OCC of ` 20 lac. It means that the
valuation report of Mr. P. P. Singh must be between the said period.
But surprisingly no such report is available on record. Only one
valuation report dated April 17, 1998 wherein the valuation of property
had been valued at ` 18.60 lac is on the record. There is no
explanation from the CBI where is the report which was allegedly
prepared by Mr. P. P. Singh between May 12, 1998 to May 16, 1998.
Moreover, the report dated April 17, 1998 was not filed by Mr. P.P.
Singh. (iii) Further, as per the statement of PW18, Mr. P. P. Singh
of his own informed him about the valuation of the said property
whereas PW45 testified before the CBI that while he was examining
post sanction documents, some suspicion arose in his mind about the
valuation of property, accordingly he told to PW18. As per his
testimony, PW18 directed him to go to the spot and inspected the
spot physically and thereafter, he inspected the spot physically in the
presence of Nandita Bakshi and Safiqur Rehman (A3) and he
informed PW18 that the valuation of property was not more than ` 15-
` 18 lac. Thus, as per the statement of PW45, he inspected the
property as per the directions of PW18 but PW18 did not state so. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (iv) Assuming for the sake of arguments that Mr. P. P.
Singh had informed about the higher valuation of the property in
question but there is no explanation why PW18 had not put up a note
on file in this regard. Being the Manager (Credit) of the bank, it was
his duty to put up a note on the file but he had not done so without
any explanation. Moreover, there is no explanation either from CBI or
from prosecution where is the valuation report which was allegedly
prepared by Mr. P. P. Singh during the period May 12, 1998 to May
16, 1998. (v) Admittedly, the valuation report of ` 73.80 lac is not
on the file. PW18 testified that the said report was on the file when he
processed the note with his recommendation to sanction before
U.R.G. Bhatt. But there is no explanation where the said report had
gone. I do not find any substance in the contention of learned Public
Prosecutor that the said report might have been replaced by
U.R.G.Bhatt because there is no such material on record. Moreover, it
is undisputed fact that after sanctioning of the loan, all formalities
were completed under the supervision of PW18 and being the
Manager (Credit), the file must be in his custody. Further, there is no
point for U.R.G.Bhatt to replace the valuation report of ` 73.80 lac
with the valuation report of ` 18.60 lac. (vi) In view of the above, I am of the considered opinion
that there is nothing on record which may show that U.R.G.Bhatt was
informed about the less valuation of property before May 16, 1998. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (vii) It is undisputed fact that on August 11, 1998 borrower
had moved an application requesting to transfer the amount to
Parliament Street Branch as borrower was having another account at
Parliament Street Branch. Accordingly, A8 had transferred the said
account on August 21, 1998 and at the time of transferring the
account, A8 had sent all relevant documents to Parliament Street
Branch highlighting that at that time the total outstanding amount in
the account of borrower was ` 42,31,576.94. Accordingly, branch of
A8 also raised BAR (Branch Advise Requisition) at the Parliament
Street Branch. Since, account was transferred from the branch of A8,
A8 had no control or connection with the said account in any manner
after August 21, 1998. (viii) As per the record, after transfer of the said account,
Parliament Street branch had opened a fresh account of the borrower
on August 22, 1998 and got executed all relevant documents from the
borrower including fresh hypothecation of the stock. Thereafter,
Parliament Street branch had enhanced the credit limits from time to
time. I find substance in the contention of learned defence counsel
that if A8 had been in conspiracy with the borrower, he would not
have transferred the said account; rather he would have persuaded
the borrower to continue the account with his branch so that he could
favour him as and when required but U.R.G.Bhatt immediately
transferred the account of the borrower, which further rules out the
possibility of any conspiracy with the borrower. From the letter dated CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 119 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others October 16, 1999 of the Circle Office, it becomes clear that the limits
were enhanced from time to time and the liability in the account rose
to the extent of ` 1.72 crores. As already discussed that when the
account was transferred, the total liability was merely to the extent of
` 42,31,576.94 but since the limits were enhanced from time to time
after transferring of the said account, the liability rose to the extent of
` 1.72 crore. There is no explanation how A8 can be held liable for
the enhanced limit sanctioned by Parliament Street Branch. Thus, I
do not find any substance in the allegation of CBI that due to the act
of A8, loss had been caused to the bank to the tune of ` 1.72 crores. 81. CBI has set up a case that since U.R.G.Bhatt knew
the accused Sanjay Malik previously he entered into conspiracy with
the borrower through Sanjay Malik and sanctioned various credit
facilities in favour of borrower in furtherance of the said conspiracy.
But simultaneously, CBI also recited in the charge-sheet that Sanjay
Malik got sanctioned the various kinds of limits in favour of borrower
by exploiting his links with U.R.G.Bhatt. If Sanjay Malik had exploited
his links in order to get loan sanctioned from bank, it is not clear how
U.R.G.Bhatt had entered into a criminal conspiracy either with Sanjay
Malik or with the borrower. Similarly, if U.R.G.Bhatt was in conspiracy
with the burrower or Sanjay Malik, it is not clear how Sanjay Malik
could exploit his links. Perhaps, it appears that CBI was not sure
whether loan was got sanctioned in favour of the borrower after
entering into criminal conspiracy with U.R.G.Bhatt or by exploiting his
links with Sanjay Malik. State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others (i) As already discussed that there is no scintilla of
evidence to show even prima-facie that A8 had obtained any
monetary benefit or valuable thing either for himself or for any other
person or he had taken any other benefit from the borrower either at
the time of sanctioning the limit or later on. Mere fact that he had
sanctioned the loan in discharge of his official duty is not sufficient
ipso-facto to hold prima-facie that he was in conspiracy with the
borrower. At the cost of repetition, it is pertinent to state that mere fact
that the borrower had succeeded to get a loan/credit facility from the
bank on the basis of forged/fabricated documents and the sanctioning
authority failed to detect the said forgery at the time of sanctioning the
loan, does not prove ipso-facto even prima-facie that sanctioning
authority was in the conspiracy with borrower or his associates. 82. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that collected material is not sufficient to make out
a prima-facie case against A8, accordingly I hereby discharge him
from all the charges. Conclusion:- 83. In the light of aforesaid discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that:- Final outcome of the discussion :- 84. On merits, in CBI case No. 1/12 prima-facie a case is
made out against Shreya Jha (A1), V.K. Jha (A2), Shafiqur Rehman
(A4), Sanjay Malik (A5), Vivek Sood (A8) and Shashi Bala Sharma
(A9) for the offence punishable under Section 120B IPC read with Section 419 / 420 / 468 / 471 IPC. Prima-facie case is also made out
against Shreya Jha for the offence punishable under Section 420/471 CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 122 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others IPC . Prima-facie a case is also made out against Shashi Bala
Sharma for the offence punishable under Section 419 / 468 / 471 IPC. (i) However, the collected material/evidences are not
sufficient to make out a prima-facie case against Nandita Bakshi (A3)
U.R.G. Bhatt (A6) and Rekha Anand (A7), thus they stand discharged
from all the charges. (ii) Similarly on merits, in CBI case No. 2/12 prima-facie a
case is made out against Nandita Bakshi (A1), Shafiqur Rehman
(A3), Kirpal Singh (A5), Raghubir Singh (A6) (since deceased), Rajan
Kumar Nair (A7) (since deceased) and Vivek Sood (A9) for the
offence punishable under Section 120B IPC read with Section
419 / 420 / 468 / 471 IPC. Prima-facie a case is also made out against
Nandita Bakshi (A1) for the offence punishable under Section
420 / 471 IPC. Prima-facie a case is also made out against accused A5
for the offence punishable under Section 419 / 468 / 471 IPC. (iii) However, collected material/evidences are not
sufficient to make out a prima-facie case against accused V.K. Jha
(A2), Sanjay Malik (A4) and U.R.G. Bhatt (A8), thus they stand
discharged from all the charges. (iv) As already held that the act of CBI registering FIR No.
RC-3E/2000/CBI/SPE/SIU-IX/New Delhi and RC-4E/2000/CBI/ SPE/
SIU-IX/New Delhi was in violation of Section 154(1) Cr. P.C. Since the CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 123 of 124 State through CBI v. Shreya Jha & others State through CBI v. Nandita Bakshi & others second and third FIR are not permissible under the provisions of Cr.P.C , thus the investigation undertaken in the said subsequent FIRs
and the report filed thereof cannot but be invalid, thus the same
cannot be read to form even prima-facie opinion whether prima-facie
case is made out against the accused persons or not. Accordingly, all
the accused persons stand discharged from all the charges in both
the cases. (v) However, CBI has liberty to conduct further
investigation in the first FIR as held by Apex Court in T.T. Antony v.
State of Kerala & others (supra) and file the supplementary charge-
sheet, if it desires. Announced in the open Court
on this 04th day of November, 2015
 (PAWAN KUMAR JAIN)
 Special Judge-01, CBI, North West
 Rohini Courts, Delhi/sv CBI No. 1/12 & 2/12 Page No. 124 of 124