1. These petitions coming on for orders as to admission on this day upon perusing the petition and the affidavit filed in support thereof the order of the High Court and made herein and reply affidavit withdrawn, and upon hearing the arguments of Mr, Habibullah Basha for M/s. D.A. Stewart and M.A. Kalam, Advocates for the petitioner and of Mr. P. Narasimhan Central Government Standing Counsel for the respondents 1 to 3 and of Mr. B. Sriramulu; Special Prosecutor for (SPE) Cases for the 4th respondent, and having stood over for consideration till this day the Court made the following order: 2. The short facts are as follows: 3. It also requires to be noticed that by proceedings dated 13th of March 1987, the Joint Chief Controller of imports and Exports, after satisfying himself that the licence issued in favour of M/s. Continental Silk House dated 4,4.1986 would not serve the purpose for which it was issued, cancelled it with immediate effect under the powers vested in him under Clause 2(aaa) read with Clause 9(1)(d) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 dated 7.12.1955 as amended. 4. It further requites to be noted that M/s. Jeena and Company, the clearing agents of M/s. Continental Silk House by their reply dated 13th April 1987 to the show cause notice dated 27.3.1987 issued by the Department have stated that no import licence was sent to them for the clearance of the goods in question; nor did they receive any money for payment of duty, having no suspicion regarding the bona fides of the importers as stated in the shipment documents, in good faith, the bills of entry were filed by them to avoid the delay. Only from the details contained in the show cause notice, they came to know about the various offences involved. Any section that may be required may be taken against the goods and the Importers. 5. It is at this stage, all these three writ petitions have been filed for identical relief of mandamus directing the second respondent to receive the bills of Entry covering the import of 25 bales of Mulberry Raw Silk imported on board the ship's.s. Velanje' and to release the goods after collecting the duty payable thereon. 6. Mr. Habibullah Badsba, learned Counsel for the petitioner, would urge as follows; (i) The definition of an Importer is found under Section 2(26) of the Act having regard to the same, if the petitioner, before the goods are cleared for home consumption, would hold itself out to be the importer, it has every right to clear the goods. The petitioner is an Importer under law since the documents have been transferred to it and the bank documents, the bills of lading, invoices etc. are all in the name of the petitioner. Further, it has the requisite import licences specifically endorsed for the import of the goods now lying in the Madras Harbour. As to who is an Importer has come to be laid down in J.V. Gokal & Co. v. Assistant Collector of Sales Tax . Therefore, the stand of the Customs Department is untenable. (ii) Under Section 46 of the Act, all that the Importer has to do is to file a bill of entry. Accordingly the clearing agents of the petitioner wanted to file the bills of entry. But strangely the Department is not accepting the two bills and on the third bill, no action had been taken so far. Under law, all that is required is to examine the bills of entry to find out whether the goods are not prohibited. If the same is established, there is no other option available to the Officer concerned except to release the goods on payment of duty; more so when the goods are covered by a valid licence. (iii) It is one thing to say that the bills of entry filed by M/s. Continental Silk House had been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation and yet another thing to say that the petitioner who has valid licence and as an importer is prepared to pay the necessary duty could be denied the benefit of import. By allowing the import in favour of the petitioner, the Department is not in any manner prejudiced. Still, whatever action could be taken against M/s. Continental Silk House, that can be taken. Therefore, the denial of the benefit of import is nothing but arbitrary, violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. 7. The learned Senior Standing Counsel for the Central Government would draw my attention to the definition of Importer occurring in Section 2(26) of the Act and contend that it talks of an 'Importer' in relation to any goods at any time between their importation and the time when they are cleared for home consumption. This time factor is relevant in this case because the goods in question arrived on 27.9.1986 on which date the importation was complete. The person holding the document prior to importation, namely, 27.9.1986, could alone be deemed to be an importer. The documents in the hands of the importer are invoices dated 15.12.1986 and 16.12.1986 the bills of lading are only after the date of importation. At the time of importation, therefore it was Continental Silk House who could, in law, be the importer. Therefore, the reliance placed on this definition is in-appropriate, and the citation in this behalf is inapplicable. 8. The learned Counsel then refers to Sub-section (1) and (3) of Section 30 of the Act and then urges that in this case as early as on 12.6.1986, the C.B.I. enquiry had been commenced. It is at this juncture that in January 1987 the petitioner's claimed the release of the goods. So far as the goods are concerned, they are liable for confiscation, concerning which adjudication proceedings are pending. A show cause notice has been issued on 27.3.1987. The Department has also sent a reply to the advocate of the petitioner on 31.3.1987. In order to circumvent the adjudication proceedings, the petitioners have ingeniously filed these bills of entry and have come up to this Court as though nothing had happened. It is incorrect to contend that no prejudice will be caused to the Department, nor again it is proper to urge that there is any arbitrariness. 9. Mr. B. Sriramulu learned Counsel appearing for the Central Bureau of Investigation would urge that a case in R.C. No. 19 of 1986 is pending investigation concerning the fraud committed by M/s. Continental Silk House, Bangalore, concerning the very goods in question. The contract for the import of the goods was between M/s. Continental Silk House and the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, it has now turned out that the said M/s. Continental Silk House is a bogus firm and on the strength of the forged documents, licence had been obtained by fraud. Under those circumstances, under the law as laid down in FEDCO (P) Ltd., and Anr. v. S.N. Bilgrami and Ors. and S. Mohammed v. Assistant Collector, Customs , the goods are liable for confiscation. This is because the goods have been imported fraudulently attracting Section 111(d) of the Act whereby they are liable for confiscation. Under these circumstances, there is no question of any statutory obligation cast on the Customs Department to allow the release of the goods on payment of duty. 10. Mr. Habibullah Badsha, learned Counsel for the petitioner in reply cites the decision in East India Commercial v. Collector of Customs A.I.R. 1962 S.C. 1898 and submits that the cancellation of the licence of Continental Silk House is not always obligatory and it is voidable and therefore the cancellation of the licence of M/s. Continental Silk House cannot be put against the petitioner. 11. Before I proceed to consider the legal issues involved the facts may be detailed out. M/s. A.S. Shipping Agencies (P) Ltd., Madras Steamer Agents, for vessel 'M.V. Velenje' (by which the goods in question arrived) filed an import Manifest I.M. No. 887/86 on 17.9.1986. This is in accordance with Section 30 of the Act. The impugned consignments are covered by Line Nos. 150, 151 and 152 of the Import Manifest. The entries indicated in the Manifest against the above three lines are as under: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Description of Goods Name of the Consignee/Importers ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- It will be seen that the Importer is M/s. Continental Silk House, the holders of the bills of lading. The Customs House Agents M/s. Jeena & Co., Madras filed the bills of entry with invoices dated 4.9.1986 of M/s. Brightex, Hong Kong, on 20th September, 1986. The goods arrived on 27th September, 1986. The bills of entry were admitted by the Department. They were assigned Nos. 5059 to 5061. They were manifested as GM-887/86 Line Nos. 150 to 152 on 29.9.1986. It came to the light of the Customs Department that M/s. Continental Silk House was not in existence and the licence itself had been obtained by fraud and misrepresentation on the strength of fabricated documents. Therefore, a complaint was lodged on 27.11.1986 by the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports with the Superintendent of Police, C.B.I. (EOW), Madras to takeup investigation against the bogus firm. Accordingly, a First Information Report was prepared in Crime No. R.C. 19 of 80 dated 2.12.1986 and investigation was taken up. On 13.3 1987, the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports passed an order of cancellation of the imprest licence dated 4.4.1986 for C.I.F. value of Rs. 9.59.280/- for the import of mulberry raw silk issued in favour of M/s. Continental Silk House after satisfying himself that it will not serve the purpose for which it was granted. This was in exercise of the powers conferred under Clause 2(aaa) read with Clause 9(1)(d)of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955. It had also come to the notice of the Customs Department that neither M/s. Continental Silk House nor the supporting manufacturer indicated by them, namely, M/s. J.K. Silk Industries were functioning at the addresses given by them and also at the other addresses furnished by M/s. Continental Silk House, at Madras, 19. The show cause notice is issued on 6th March 1987 for the proposed cancellation of the licence dated 4.4.1986 had been returned by the postal authorities with the remarks 'No such Continental Silk House, No. 26, II Street, Kanniappa Gramni Nagar at Tiruvottiyur, Madras-600019 and hence returned to sender.' On 27.3.1987 in view of the above, M/s. Continental Silk House M/s. J.K. Silk Industries and M/s. Jeena & Co., were called upon to show cause as to why the consignments should not be confiscated under Section 111(d) of the Act read with Section 3(2) of the Imports & Exports (Control) Act, 1947. This was because the licence was obtained by fraud on the strength of the forged documents. The importer and the supporting manufacturers are fictitious firms. The said licence had, therefore, been cancelled. Meanwhile, by letter dt. 21.2.1987 Mr. Balani, Advocate addressed a letter to the Assistant Collector of Customs on behalf of the petitioner stating that the three bills of entry filed for the clearance of the consignments could be noted and the clearance of the goods be allowed. To the said letter, the Assistant Collector of Customs replied on 31.3.1987 as follows: 12. Mr. Habibullah Badsha, learned Counsel for the petitioner strongly relies on the word 'Importer' found in Section 2(26) of the Act. The word 'Importer' is defined as follows: 13. In my considered view, as rightly contended by the learned Senior Standing Counsel tor the Central Government, the words, namely, 'at any time between their importation and the time when they are cleared for home consumption' occurring in Section 2 (26} are important. It has already been noted that the goods had arrived on 27.9.1986 on which date the importation had become complete having crossed the customs barrier. At that relevant time it was only M/s. Continental Silk House which was the importer and for that alone the goods were intended. As a matter of fact, the bills of entry had been filed by M/s. Jeena & Co. They still stand. Those bills have not been cancelled; nor the imported goods were abandoned. In law, therefore, no other person can claim to be the importer of the goods except the person shown in the Manifest originally as seen from the above Tabular Statement against Line Nos. 150, 151 and 152. After the completion of importation on 27.9.1986, there cannot be another importer for the very same goods. Therefore, apart from the definition under Section 2(26) not being helpful to the petitioner, 1 am unable to see how the ruling of the Supreme Court , referred to above , could be pressed into service. It also requires to be noted that the documents in the hands of the petitioner are invoices bearing dated 15.12.1986 and 16.12.1986 while the bills of lading are after the date of importation. 14. On 29.1.1987, one bill of entry Rotation No. 887/86; Line No. 150 in the name of the writ petitioner as importer was filed by the Custom House Agent M/s. Srinivasa Mudaliar & Bros., Madras on behalf of the petitioner. This bill of entry was not manifested by the Customs Department because, against this Line No. 150 a bill of entry had been tiled by the importer in the correct sense, namely, M/s. Continental Silk House, Bangalore. The same had not been cancelled. The C.B.I. case is pending. Therefore, there is no question of one bill of entry of the petitioner having been accepted and the other two being refused. The stand of the Department that the three bills of entry had already been filed by M/s. Jeena & Co., with regard to the same, consignment and therefore it cannot accept any other person as the importer for the same goods is perfectly in consonance with the Customs law as well as the common sense. Further, the petitioner had been informed that the bills of entry against Line Nos. 150, 151 and 152 had already been filed on 29th September, 1986 by the said M/s. Jeena & Co., on behalf of M/s. Continental Silk House, Bangalore. 15. The fallacy underlying the argument of the petitioner is, it is presumed on behalf of the petitioner that the goods had already been allowed for clearance and the Importer of M/s. Continental Silk House had not cleared the goods. This is far from fact. On the contrary, the matter is now in the hands of C.B.I. and a first information report has been registered in R.C. No. 19 of 1986, The licence of M/s. Continental Silk House had been cancelled by proceedings dated 13.3.1987, the import of the goods on the strength of the fake documents by fictitious firm on whom even notices could not be served would undoubtedly constitute fraud. In such a case, Section 111(d) of the Act will clearly get attracted. Consequently, the goods are liable for confiscation. There is an obligation cast on the Custom House Agent M/s Jeena & Co., who acted on behalf of M/s. Continental Silk House to comply with Section 30 of the Act. It is also clear that under Sub-section (2) of Section 30, the person delivering the import manifest or the import report has to make and sudscribe to declaration as to the truth of its contents. When this turned out to be untrue, M/s. Jeena & Co., was pushed to the extreme and wrote in reply to the show cause notice on 13th April 1987 that they were not aware of the bond fides of the Importer. In good faith the bills of entry were filed to avoid delay and any action could be taken against the goods or the importer. If the goods which have been imported were imported contrary to Section 111(d) of the Act, they are liable for confiscation as categorically laid down in FEDCO (P) Ltd. v. S.N. Bilgrami . This ruling of the Supreme Court was relied on in S. Mohammed v. Assistant Collector, Customs . The weighty observations in the following two paragraphs are relevant to the point in issue. Paragraph 32: 16. There are absolutely no merits in these writ petitions and hence they are dismissed.