1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH,
 SHIMLA

 . Cr.MP(M) No. 590 of 2020. Date of Decision : May 04, 2020. The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anoop Chitkara, Judge. COURT PROCEEDINGS CONVENED THROUGH VIDEO

 CONFERENCE

Anoop Chitkara, Judge. For possessing 10.26 grams of Herion

(Diacetylmorphine), the petitioner, who is under arrest, on being
arraigned as accused in FIR Number 111 of 2019, dated

8.5.2019, registered under Section 21 of the Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (after now called " NDPS
Act "), in Police Station Sadar, Solan, District Solan, HP, disclosing
non-bailable offences, has come up before this Court under Section 439 CrPC, seeking regular bail. 2. While issuing notices to the State, the Court had requested
Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Additional Advocate General to have
telephonic instructions in the matter from the concerned Police 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Station, and to procure status report immediately, either through
WhatsApp/ e-mail and forward the same to this Court on e-mail
id [email protected] and also send the scanned copy or PDF

 . copy of the status report to the learned Counsel for the
petitioner on his WhatsApp number 9817017441. 3. Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, learned Addl. Advocate General has

filed the status report through e-mail, printout whereof has been
placed on record. 4. I have read the status report(s) and heard counsel for the

parties through video conference. 5. The petitioner did not file any power of attorney. To contain
the spread of Novel Corona Virus, the Epidemiologists have

advised to maintain social distancing in the entire world.
Consequently, to avoid unnecessary congregation, this Court
exempts the petitioner from filing the power of attorney. 6. Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Ld. Additional Advocate General
submits that he has sent a copy of the status report to Mr. O.C.
Sharma, Advocate, learned Counsel for the petitioner on his

WhatsApp number. 7. Prior to the present bail petition, the petitioner had filed
two petitions under Section 439 CrPC, before this Court. However, vide order dated 13.8.2019 and 6.1.2020, passed in
Cr.MP(M) Nos.1537 of 2019 and 1 of 2020, the Court had
dismissed the petition. FACTS 8. The gist of the First Information Report and the status
report is that on 8.5.2019, at about 8.30 p.m., when the Police
party was conducting traffic checking at Bajholpul near Shoolini
University, one Maruti Car Bearing No.HR49A-4756, came from
the side of Shoolini University. The Police party, stopped the car ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:58 :::HCHP 3 for the purpose of checking. The petitioner was driving the said
car and when he was asked to show the documents of the
vehicle and his driving licence, then he could not produce the

 . same and was also got perplexed. On suspicion of some
contraband in the car, the Police officials stopped another
vehicle and associated its driver as a witness and in his

presence conducted the search of the vehicle driven by the bail
petitioner Tej Singh @ Teja. In the dashboard, the police
recovered a polythene pouch, containing heroin. The police

tested the same with the help of drug detection kit, which
detected positive for heroin. On weighing the same, it measured
10.26 grams. Subsequently, the Police party also complied with

the procedural requirements under the NDPS Act and the CrPC and arrested the petitioner. PREVIOUS CRIMINAL HISTORY 9. As per the counsel for the petitioner as well as the
status report the following cases are registered against the

petitioner:- SUBMISSIONS: 10. The learned counsel for the bail petitioner submits
that the allegations against the petitioner are false and he has ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:58 :::HCHP 4 nothing to do with the said allegations. He further states that
petitioner has to shoulder responsibility of his family and also
submitted that his bail petition be considered on humanitarian

 . grounds in view of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.
ANALYSIS AND REASONING: 11. Pre-trial incarceration needs justification depending upon
the heinous nature of the offence, terms of the sentence
prescribed in the Statute for such a crime, probability of the

accused fleeing from justice, hampering the investigation, and
doing away with victim(s) and/or witnesses. The Court is under
an obligation to maintain a balance between all stakeholders

and safeguard the interests of the victim, accused, society, and

State. 12. Section 2 (vii-a) of the NDPS Act defines commercial
quantity as the quantity greater than the quantity specified in

the schedule, and S. 2 (xxiii-a), defines a small quantity as the
quantity lesser than the quantity specified in the schedule of NDPS Act . The remaining quantity falls in an undefined category,
which is now generally called as intermediate quantity. All

Sections in the NDPS Act , which specify an offense, also mention
that minimum and maximum sentence, depending upon the

quantity of the substance. Commercial quantity mandates
minimum sentence of ten years of imprisonment and a minimum
fine of Rupees One hundred thousand, and bail is subject to the
riders mandated in S. 37 of NDPS Act. 13. The following aspects are relevant to decide the present
bail petition: Resultantly, the present case has to be treated like any
 other case of grant of bail in a penal offence. c) Although there is criminal history of the bail
 petitioner and on this ground previously the Court
 below had rejected the bail application of the petitioner. But keeping in view the current Covid-19 pandemic, the
 petitioner has come up again before this Court on the
 grounds that his family is facing extreme financial

 difficulty and the family is extremely concerned about
 each other. Without this case being cited as a
 precedent, keeping in view the peculiar

 circumstances coupled with the fact that the

 Heroin recovered from the petitioner was just
 10.26 grams, whereas, small quantity is lesser

 than 5 grams, and consequently the quantity
 involved in this case is extremely close to small
 quantity with difference of just five grams, this
 Court is inclined to afford last opportunity to the
 Petitioner to mend his ways, making it very clear
 that in case, the petitioner repeats the offence,
 then this bail shall automatically stand cancelled
 and it shall also be a factor for future bail
 applications by the petitioner. (d) The material aspect of the investigation is
 complete. (e) The petitioner is in judicial custody since

 . 8.5.2019. (f) The petitioner is a permanent resident of
 address mentioned in the memo of parties; therefore,

 his presence can always be secured. (g) Before releasing the petitioner from custody,
 her/his AADHAR and other proofs of identity to secure

 presence during trial. 15. Given the above reasoning, in my considered opinion, the

judicial custody of the petitioner is not going to achieve any
significant purpose. Thus, the Court is granting bail, subject to
the following conditions, irrespective of the contents of the bail

bonds: The petitioner be released on his personal bonds and
 further he shall furnish the surety bond of the similar
 amount, on or before Jun 30, 2020, failing which this
 bail shall automatically stand cancelled and the
 petitioner shall surrender on Jul 1, 2020, before the
 Court accepting the bonds, from where he is being
 released. The Court is dispensing with the requirement
 of furnishing surety bond at this stage to avoid ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:58 :::HCHP 7 travelling of persons to furnish the sureties, to abide by
 the lockdown ordered by the Government for the safety
 of the people, by maintaining social distancing to

 . contain the spread of the Covid-19 disease. (b) The bail bonds shall continue to remain in force
 throughout the trial and even after that in terms of Section 437-A of the CrPC. (c) The petitioner shall join investigation as and when
 called by the Investigating officer or any superior

 officer. Whenever the investigation takes place within
 the boundaries of the Police Station or the Police Post,
 then the petitioner shall not be called before 8 AM and

 shall be let off before 5 PM. The petitioner shall not be
 subjected to third-degree treatment, indecent language
 etc. (d) The petitioner shall fully co-operate in the
 investigation and shall not hamper it, in any manner
 what so ever. (e) The petitioner shall not influence, threaten,

 browbeat or pressurize the complainant, witnesses, and
 the Police official(s). (f) The petitioner shall not make any inducement,
 threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the
 Investigating officer, or any other person acquainted
 with the facts of the case, to dissuade her from
 disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or
 tamper with the evidence. (g) The petitioner shall appear before the trial Court,
 on issuance of summons/warrants by such Court. (h) There shall be a presumption of proper service to
 the petitioner about the date of hearing in the trial
 Court, even if such service takes place through

 . phone/mobile/SMS/WhatsApp/E-Mail/Facebook or any
 other similar medium, by the trial Court, or by the
 Prosecution. In case the petitioner does not appear

 before the trial Court on such date of hearing, then the
 trial Court may issue bailable warrants, and if the
 petitioner still fails to put in appearance, then the trial

 Court may issue Non-Bailable warrants to procure the
 presence of the petitioner, and send the petitioner to
 the Judicial custody for the period for which the trial

 Court may deem fit and proper, without being unduly
 harsh towards him. (i) The petitioner shall attend the trial on each date,

 unless exempted. (j) In case of Non-appearance on the intimated date,
 then irrespective of the contents of the bail bonds, the

 petitioner undertakes to pay all the expenditure (only

 the principal amount without interest), that the State
 might incur to produce him before such Court, provided

 such amount exceeds the amount recoverable after
 forfeiture of the bail bonds, subject to the provisions of Sections 446 & 446-A of CrPC. The failure of the
 petitioner to reimburse the State shall entitle the trial
 Court to order transfer of money from the bank
 account(s) of the petitioner. However, this recovery is
 subject to the condition that the expenditure incurred
 must be only to trace the petitioner and relates to the
 exercise undertaken solely to nab the petitioner in that ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:58 :::HCHP 9 FIR, and during that voyage, the Police had not gone for
 any other purpose/function what so ever. (k) The petitioner shall abstain from all criminal

 . activities, if he does so, then in the fresh FIR, the Court
 shall take into account that even earlier the Court had
 cautioned the accused not to repeat the offence. (l) During the pendency of the trial, if the petitioner
 commits any offence under NDPS Act , even if it involves
 small quantity or if he commits any offence where the

 sentence prescribed is seven years or more, then this
 bail order shall stand cancelled automatically. In such a
 situation, the bail already granted to the petitioner in

 previous case registered against him vide FIR No.97 of
 2018, dated 2.8.2018, in Police Station, Dharampur,
 H.P., under the NDPS Act , shall be liable to be cancelled

 and the State shall move appropriate application for its
 cancellation. (m) The petitioner shall surrender all firearms along

 with ammunitions, if any, and the arms license to the

 concerned authority within 30 days from today. (n) The petitioner shall inform the SHO about the place

 of residence during trial. The petitioner shall intimate
 about the change of residential address, within two
 weeks from such change, to the police station, and after
 filing of the Police report also to the trial Court. (o) In case of violation of any of the conditions as
 stipulated in this order, the State/Public Prosecutor may
 file an application for cancellation of bail of the
 petitioner, and even the trial Court shall be competent
 to cancel the bail. 16. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating
fundamental or other rights, including any human rights, or

 . faces any other difficulty due to any condition, then for
modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a reasoned
application before this Court, and after taking cognizance,

before the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case
may be. 17. The Counsel representing the accused and the Judicial

officer accepting the bail bonds, shall explain all conditions of
this bail order to the petitioner, in vernacular. 18. The petitioner undertakes to comply with all directions

given in this order, and the furnishing of bail bonds by the
petitioner is acceptance of all such conditions. 19. Consequently, the petitioner shall be released on bail in

the present case, in connection with the FIR mentioned above,
on his furnishing personal bond in the aforesaid terms. 20. The Court attesting the personal bonds shall ascertain the

identity of the bail-petitioner, his family members, through

AADHAR Card. The petitioner shall give details of AADHAR Card,
phone number(s), WhatsApp number, e-mail, Facebook account,

etc., Pan Card and Passport if available, on the reverse page of
the personal bonds. The petitioner shall also furnish details of
personal bank account(s). 21. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the
rights of the Police or the investigating agency, from further
investigation. 22. The present bail order is only for the FIR mentioned above.
It shall not be a blanket order of bail in all other cases, if any,
registered against the petitioner. 23. The SHO/Additional SHO of the concerned Police Station or
the Investigating Officer shall send a copy of this order,
preferably a soft copy, to the complainant. . 24. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an
expression of opinion on the merits of the case, nor shall the
trial Court advert to these comments. 25. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned above. 26. The Court Master shall handover this order to the
concerned branch of the Registry of this Court, and the said

official shall immediately send a copy of this order to the District
and Sessions Judge, concerned, by e-mail. The Court attesting
the personal bonds shall not insist upon the certified copy of this

order, and shall download the same from the website of this
Court, which shall be sufficient for the purposes of the record. 27. The Court Master shall handover an authenticated copy of

this order to the Counsel for the Petitioner, and to the Ld.
Advocate General, if they ask for the same. (Anoop Chitkara),

 Judge. May 04, 2020 (ps) ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:58 :::HCHP