Since these two petitions are in respect of same

crime number, they have been taken up together to

dispose of them by common order. 2. Crl.P.4227/2014 is filed by the

petitioner/accused No.3 under Section 439 of Cr.P.C.

seeking his release on bail for the offences punishable

under Sections 384 , 389 , 120B , 506 read with Section

34 of IPC registered in respondent - police station Crime

No.183/2014. 3. Crl.P.4466/2014 is filed by the

petitioners/accused Nos.4 and 5 under Section 438 of

Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail to direct the

respondent police to release the petitioners on bail in

the event of their arrest for the offences punishable 4 under Sections 384 , 389 , 120B , 506 read with Section

34 of IPC registered in respondent - police station Crime

No.183/2014. 4. Heard the arguments of the learned counsel

appearing for the petitioners/accused persons in

respect of both petitions and also the learned Spl.Public

Prosecutor appearing for the respondent-State in

respect of both petitions. 5. Learned counsel for the petitioner/accused

No.3 during the course of his arguments submitted that

name of the petitioner/accused No.3 is not at all

mentioned in the complaint as well as FIR registered in

the case. He has submitted that it is only in the

remand application dated 21.06.2014 name of the

petitioner/Mallesha has been shown as accused No.3.

Looking to the said remand application, it is stated that

accused No.3 himself came to the police station and was

arrested and his voluntary statement has been

recorded. He has submitted that as per the prosecution 5 material, it is stated that the statement of one Dinesh

has been recorded on 20.06.2014 and he has stated

about the involvement of the petitioner. He has

submitted that said Dinesh after seeing accused No.3 in

police custody has stated in his statement that he has

seen accused No.3 on 19.06.2014 at 7.20 p.m. itself and

if it is true, then nothing prevented the complainant

when he filed the compliant on 20.06.2014 to mention

the name of accused No.3 in his complaint itself.

Regarding the recovery of 12 items and the alleged

conspiracy between the petitioner and other accused

persons, it is the matter to be ascertained during the

course of trial after recording evidence. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner/accused

No.3 has also submitted that there is no test

identification parade conducted by the Investigating

Officer to establish the identity of accused No.3.

Learned counsel has submitted accused No.3 is a Police

Constable and is ready to abide by any conditions to be

imposed by this Court and also ready to cooperate with 6 the Investigating Officer for interrogation. He has also

submitted that so far as involvement of the

petitioner/accused No.3 is concerned there is no prima-

facie material placed by the prosecution and has also

submitted that the alleged offences are all triable by the

Magistrate Court. Hence, by imposing reasonable

conditions petitioner/accused No.3 may be enlarged on

bail. In support of his contention, learned counsel for

the petitioner/accused No.3 has relied upon the

decisions reported in 2005(1) Crimes 113 (SC) and also

the order dated 23.06.2014 passed by this Court in

Crl.P.2141/2014. 7. Learned counsel appearing for

petitioners/accused Nos.4 and 5 during the course of

his arguments submitted that so far as accused No.4 is

concerned absolutely there is no material to show her

involvement in the commission of alleged offence, except

the voluntary statement of accused No.1, which is not

binding on the accused No.4. So far as accused No.5 is

concerned, the materials show that before going to the 7 flat of the complainant she got an appointment by

consulting the complainant over mobile phone and then

only it is alleged that she went to him on 16.06.2014.

He has submitted that the complaint averments itself

shows that on 17.06.2014 again accused No.5 went to

the house of the complainant along with her friend

Sanjana, and when they asked for drinks, complainant

gave them vodka and ice cubes. He has submitted that

the further averments in the compliant shows that

complainant spent some time with both of them i.e.,

accused No.4 and Sanjana. Thereafter, he went to toilet

and thereafter he was taking rest in the room. In the

meanwhile, door bell was ranged and when complainant

went and opened the door some people saying that one

is from CCB accompanied with other two persons came

inside his house. Learned counsel has submitted that

as per Section 114 of Evidence Act, the conduct of the

complainant before and after the alleged incident is also

material. He has submitted that so far as the alleged

demand of Rs.1 Crore by the persons, who are said to 8 be from the CCB police and the cameraman,

petitioners/accused Nos.4 and 5 are totally

unconnected and it is also not the case of the

prosecution that accused Nos.4 and 5 have demanded

the ransom amount from the complainant. Hence, he

has submitted that the materials placed by the

prosecution are not sufficient to show the involvement

of accused Nos.4 and 5 in the alleged offences. 8. Learned counsel for petitioners/accused

Nos.4 and 5 has further submitted that in the statement

of Dinesh, he has stated that on 19.06.2014 he has

seen the petitioners along with other accused persons

sitting in the car belonging to accused No.4 is not at all

connected with the alleged offence and it will not

implicate the petitioners/accused Nos.4 and 5 in the

alleged offences. Learned counsel has submitted that

when according to the complainant these things have

happened on 16.06.2014 and 17.06.2014 why he waited

till 20.06.2014 and why not lodged the complaint

immediately, that too being a doctor and responsible 9 person. Hence, submitted that this also prima-facie

shows that there is false implication of accused Nos.4

and 5 in the alleged offences. He has submitted that

petitioners/accused Nos.4 and 5 are women and their

case comes under the proviso of Section 437 of Cr.P.C.

Learned counsel has also submitted that the alleged

offences, are punishable with the maximum

imprisonment of 10 years and they are triable by the

Magistrate Court. Hence, he has submitted that by

imposing reasonable conditions petitioners/accused

Nos.4 and 5 may be enlarged on bail. 9. As against this, the learned Spl.Public

Prosecutor for the respondent-State during the course

of his arguments submitted that regarding the

involvement of all these three petitioners along with

other accused persons, there are CCTV footages. He has

submitted that petitioner/accused No.3, who went to

the flat of the complaint stating that he is a Police from

CCB Police Station has been identified by witness

Dinseh and the said Dinesh has given his statement on 10 20.06.2014, wherein he has stated that he has seen

accused No.3 along with other accused persons in the

car, which was nearby the Fortune Hotel at

Cunningham Crescent Road on 19.06.2014 at about

7.20 p.m. Learned Spl.PP has also submitted that on

20.06.2014 after seeing the accused No.3 in the Police

Station, said Dinesh identified him that he is the same

person, who was along with other accused persons

sitting in the blue colour car belonging to accused No.4.

He has also submitted that the Investigating Officer has

recovered 12 items at the instance of accused No.3 from

his house in which the ID card belonging to the

complainant has also been seized. Hence, he has

submitted that these materials show the involvement of

the petitioner/accused No.3 in the alleged offence. He

has further submitted that materials produced in the

case i.e., footages of CCTV camera also shows the

involvement of accused Nos.4 and 5 in the alleged

offence. 10. Learned Spl.Public Prosecutor further

submitted that complainant has stated in his complaint

about accused No.5 that she came to his house on

16.06.2014 and again on 17.06.2014. Hence, he has

submitted that the allegations in the complaint shows

that all the accused persons i.e., accused Nos.1 to 7

conspired and made the complainant to spend some

time with accused No.5 and another lady Sanjana and

taken the photographs and blackmailing him and

demanded Rs.1 Crore from the complainant. He has

further submitted that materials also show that accused

No.3 along with other accused persons went to Fortis

Hospital, where the complainant was working and told

the complainant that he has to pay their share of Rs.10

Lakhs stating that they are having the original video

recordings of complainant with the ladies and if, he pay

the amount they will return the said original recordings

with the ladies accused No.5 and another girl Sanjana.

Learned Spl.PP has submitted that the matter is still

under investigation accused Nos.4 and 5 are 12 absconding and it is necessary to arrest them and to

interrogate them. Hence, submitted that at this stage

petitioners are not entitled to be granted with bail. 8. I have perused the averments made in the

bail petition, FIR, complaint, order passed by the lower

Court on the bail application and the CD File produced

by the learned Spl.PP containing investigation materials

and also perused the objection statement filed on behalf

of the respondent-state. Looking to the complaint, it is

by one (Prof.)N.Chandrashekar, MD and complaint

allegations in brief that he received a call from a girl

Sona/accused No.5 to meet him on 14.06.2014. She

went to his flat on 16.06.2014, No.2072 at High Point

No.2, 7th floor, Palace Road, Bangalore and tried to get

close to him which he refused, she left the flat. Again

on the next day i.e. on 17.06.2014 at about 7.30 or 8.00

p.m she along with her friend Sanjana went to the flat of

the complainant. On their request complainant offered

vodka with ice cubes. Complainant spent some time

with them and as he was uneasy he went and lay down 13 in a room and somebody ranged the bell, when the

complainant went and opened the door some persons

stating that they are from CCB came inside the house

inspected him and in spite of the objection by the

complainant they did video shooting. There is also

allegation in the complaint that the person said to be

from CCB demanded for ransom to the tune of Rs.1

Crore taking the name of ACP with him, by showing a

video clipping of complainant with Sona in inebriated

position. The complainant drove them in his car to his

house at Vasant Nagar and paid Rs.1 Lakh to them i.e.,

to the person said to be from CCB and two media

persons. The CCB person forcibly took the SD Card

containing the video clipping in respect of the

complainant and it is with the said person. The further

allegation that Kumar from TV9 accompanied by a

cameraman on Thursday night i.e., 19.06.2014 went to

Fortis Hospital, where the complainant was working and

gave the mobile number and told the complainant to

pay him Rs.10 Lakhs for return of all the original 14 recordings. It is further alleged that on 19.06.2014

Kumar called the complainant to meet him. The

complainant called to his flat at 2.30 p.m. but Kumar

called the complainant to meet him outside the gate or

in the van for which complainant did not oblige, then, it

was agreed to meet at Fortis at 5.00 p.m. Kumar and

cameraman demanded for higher amount for which the

complainant did not oblige. In view of the said events

the complainant lodged the complaint against Sona and

the group to take action against them in accordance

with law. On the basis of said complaint, case has been

registered firstly against Sona, Kumar and others.

During the course of investigation, Investigating Officer

has arrayed the petitioner/Mallesha as accused No.3. 9. Looking to the complaint averments and

other materials placed on record. It is not the case of

the prosecution that accused No.4 Smt.Nayanakrishna

went to the flat of the complainant and demanded

ransom amount from the complainant. Her name is

also not specifically mentioned in the complaint and 15 even in the FIR also her name was not shown. But it is

the contention of the prosecution that on 19.06.2014

said accused No.4 was seen in the blue colour car

nearby the rear side gate of the Fortune Hotel at

Cunningham Crescent road at about 7.20 p.m. In this

connection prosecution relied upon the statement of one

Dinseh, Police constable, which is said to have been

recorded on 20.06.2014. But even looking to his

statement, it is only mentioned that in the said car two

females and two male persons were sitting and their

names were not specially mentioned in the statement of

Dinesh. It is true that as per the case of the

prosecution the said car has been seized and it belongs

to accused No.4. Only on the basis of the recovery of the

car and in the absence of other prima-facie material it

cannot be inferred at this stage that accused No.4 has

not made out the case for her release. 10. Regarding accused No.5/Sona, it is true in

the complaint her name is specifically mentioned. But

compliant averments show that on 14.06.2014 she 16 called the complainant over phone and sought an

appointment and only on his permission she went to his

flat on 16.06.2014. The further allegations shows that

when she wanted to become close to the complainant,

he refused and on the next day again she went along

with her friend Sanjana and when they asked the drinks

complainant supplied them vodka with ice cubes. It is

also mentioned that he spent some time with them and

then went to his room and lay down. In the mean while,

bell was ranged, and when he opened, persons said to

be from CCB and the media came and entered his

house and started video shooting in spite of his protest

and demanded Rs.1 Crore to return his video clippings

and Sona, who are seen in inebriated position. Even

according to the complaint averments it is not the

specific allegation against accused No.5/Sona that she

demanded ransom from the complainant. But the

allegation is against the persons, who are said to be

from CCB police and the media persons. But the

averments in the compliant that the complainant 17 supplied them vodka and ice cubes and he spent

sometime with them and this conduct of the

complainant is also the material fact to be taken into

consideration while appreciating the bail application

filed by accused Nos.4 and 5. 11. Accused Nos.4 and 5 have denied the

allegations made against them in the bail petition and

they have contended that they have been falsely

implicated in the case and also undertaken that they

are ready to abide by any conditions to be imposed by

this Court. Accused Nos.4 and 5 are women and their

case comes under the proviso to Section 437 of Cr.P.C.

The alleged offences are also not exclusively punishable

with death or imprisonment for life. 12. With regard to the petitioner/accused No.3

is concerned material collected during the investigation

so far goes to show that the petitioner/accused No.3

that on 20.06.2014 CCB inspector informed him to

come to his office and when he went to the said office 18 and phoned to CCB inspector he informed him that he

is in High Ground Police Station and asked him to come

to the High Grounds Police Station and he went to

Police Station at 3.00 p.m. and gave his voluntary

statement to the effect that he will take the police to the

place where he has kept the remaining amount and also

to the persons to whom the amount has been paid and

he will also show the other four persons, who were with

him. The materials also show that from the house of

the petitioner/accused No.3 twelve articles have been

seized and even the identity card belonging to

complainant is also seized out of the twelve items.

Perusing the complaint averments, the complainant has

mentioned that on 17.06.2014 when the persons came

stating that they are from CCB Police and media, taken

away the SD card belonging to him. It is also the case

of the prosecution that the petitioner/accused No.3,

who is working in the Police Department went to the

house of the complainant afterwards and he demanded

for the payment of Rs.1 Crore, otherwise he will disclose 19 the video clipping of the complainant with Sona in

inebriated position. So such serious allegations are

made against petitioner/accused No.3 and investigation

of the case is still going on. It is the contention of the

prosecution that Investigating Officer has to collect

some more material and has to file the charge sheet in

the matter. I have also perused the decision relied upon

by the learned counsel for the petitioner/accused No.3

reported in 2005(1) Crimes 113 (SC) and also the order

dated 23.06.2014 passed by this Court in 2141/2014.

Looking to the facts and circumstances in those two

decisions and facts and circumstances involved in the

case on hand, they are not one and the same hence,

they will not come to the aid and assistance of the

petitioner/accused No.3 for getting him released on bail

at this stage. However, as the investigation is still going

on, without expressing the opinion of this Court about

the entitlement or otherwise of the petitioner/accused

No.3 to be released on bail, his petition is to be disposed

of for the present. 13. Accordingly, Crl.P.No.4227/2014 is disposed

of for the present with liberty to petitioner/accused No.3

to renew his request after completion of the

investigation and filing of charge sheet. Crl.P.No.4466/2014 is allowed. The respondent-

Police is directed to enlarge the petitioners/accused

Nos.4 and 5 on bail in the event of their arrest for the

alleged offence punishable under Sections 384, 389,

120B, 506 read with Section 34 of IPC registered in

respondent - police station Crime No.183/2014, subject

to the following conditions: ii. Petitioners/accused Nos.4 and 5 shall
 not tamper with any of the prosecution
 witnesses, directly or indirectly. iii. Petitioners/accused Nos.4 and 5 have
 to make themselves available before
 the Investigating Officer for
 interrogation, as and when called for. iv. The petitioners/accused Nos.4 and 5 have to appear before the concerned
 Court within 30 days from the date of
 this order and to execute the personal
 bond and the surety bond. Sd/- JUDGE

BSR