CORAM : HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SUBHASH CHAND

 For the Petitioner : Mr. Ayush Kumar Verma, Advocate
 For the State : Mr. Pankaj Kumar Mishra, A.P.P.
 For the Informant : Mr. Pratik Sen, Advocate. -------- 04/ 01.08.2023 This Cr. Revision is on behalf of the petitioner-Amrit

 Kumar against the order dated 27.04.2023 whereby the appeal

 of the petitioner has been dismissed affirming the order passed

 by Juvenile Justice Board in rejecting the bail application of the

 petitioner Amrit Kumar. 2. The learned Counsel for the petitioner has submitted

 that as per F.I.R. allegations the victim has lodged the F.I.R.

 with these allegations that on 18.05.2020 the accused has

 called her to his own house saying that his sister wanted to

 meet her. She reached to the house of Amrit Kumar and he was

 all alone there. He established physical relation with her.

 Thereafter he threatened her not to disclose anyone otherwise

 have to face dire consequences. The victim became frightened.

 He thereafter used to call her to his house. He had clicked some

 videos of the physical relations with her and had also

 threatened to make them viral. On several occasions she had

 also given her jewellery to him on the issue of blackmailing. On

 06.02.2023 he sent the Instagram message that he was going

 to marry with another girl and she would be used as a stepany. 2 He has threatened to make her video viral. He had called her to

Patna and she also went there. As such he had been

establishing physical relation with her and had been

blackmailing for last two years. 3. The learned Counsel for the petitioner has submitted

that as per F.I.R. allegations the age of victim was 18 years on

the date of lodging F.I.R. while the age of petitioner was 16 years

as per school certificate. He had been declared juvenile by the

learned J.J.Board. The petitioner is younger to the victim. As

per Social Investigation Report there is nothing against him and

the victim attained the majority still she continued in contact of

the petitioner. Therefore, contended to give the privilege of the

bail. 4. The learned Counsel for the informant victim and

learned A.P.P. have opposed the contentions made by the

learned Counsel for the petitioner and contended that the victim

was minor on the very first date when he established physical

relation with her and since he had prepared the video in regard

to the physical relation so on the basis of the same he had

blackmailed her. On account of the fear she could not disclose

the same and continued in his contact with the very fear. 5. From perusal of the F.I.R. it is found that date of

occurrence is 18.05.2022 to 06.02.2023 and this F.I.R. was

lodged on 14.02.2023. Admittedly, the victim is elder to the

child in conflict in law. Even after attaining majority as per

F.I.R. allegations she continued in relation with the child in 3 conflict with law. The learned J.J. Board and also the learned

District and Additional Sessions Judge, Children Court also

rejected the bail application of the petitioner keeping in view the

gravity of the offence. There is nothing against the petitioner in

Social Investigation Report. It is mentioned in para 10 of the

impugned order passed by the Appellate Court that the

petitioner resided with his parents, brother and sister in C.C.L.

quarter. His father was a sweeper in Collectorate, Ramgarh.

Economic and social condition of the family was not so good

and he is having no criminal antecedent and his character was

disclosed to be a good character. It is also stated that the

petitioner and the victim both were studying in same school.

Both were good friend and were also having love affairs. 6. In view of the Social Investigation Report and the

finding recorded by both the court-below, the impugned order

passed by the court-below needs interference. Since it is the

settled law that while disposing of the bail application of a

juvenile the gravity of the offence is not to be considered rather

the factors in Social Investigation Report are to be considered.

There are reasonable ground for believing that he is not likely

to come in association with the any known criminals and if he

is released on bail he would not expose moral, physical and

psychological danger and the release would not defeat the ends

of justice. 7. In view of the submissions made and the material on

record, this Cr. Revision is hereby allowed. The impugned order

passed by both the courts below are hereby set aside. 8. In consequence thereof, let the child in conflict in law

be released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.25,000/-

(Rupees Twenty Five Thousand) and two sureties of like

amount each to the satisfaction of the Principal Magistrate,

Juvenile Justice Board, Ramgarh in connection with Patratu

(Barkakana) P.S. Case No. 23 of 2023 which are to be furnished

on behalf of the guardian of the child in conflict in law. (Subhash Chand, J.)
P.K.S.