Sri.S.Ramesh, the Inspector of Police, Central

 Bureau of Investigation ['CBI' in short], Anti Corruption

 Branch ['ACB' in short] Bengaluru, has submitted a

 charge sheet against accused No.1 to 3, alleging the

 commission of offences punishable U/ Sec.120-B and 420 of Indian Penal Code [' IPC ' in short] and U/ Sec.13(2) r/w.

 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act -1988 [' PC Act '

 in short]. The Facts of Prosecution Case: D.Ravi Kumar, had approached United Bank of India, 4 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Bengaluru Branch, Bengaluru requesting for Credit

Facilities for the Company by name M/s. Binary

Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., [i.e. accused No.2]; and he

applied for Term Loan of Rs.14 Crores and Working

Capital of Rs.2 Crores for financing to Software Capital

Product 'MEDITS' worth of Rs.18.17 Crores from

M/s.Optech Consulting Inc. Texas, USA, by providing

collateral security of the proposed property situated at

Sy.No.145, Amani Belandur, Varthur Hobli, Bengaluru,

measuring 43560 Sq.Ft. which is being acquired by

accused No.2-Company. 3. It is the further case of prosecution that the

credit proposal of accused No.2-Company was processed

by Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvan, the Chief Manager and

Sri.T.S.Sudarshan, the Senior Manager of the Branch

and during the processing period, Sri.Arupendu

Banerjee, then Chief Manager and Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvan

had inspected the said proposed property bearing

Sy.No.145, Amani Belandur, Varthur Hobli, Bengaluru,

but had not enquired about the mortgage value of the

landed property to cross check the value quoted by 5 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Srikrishna, Penal Valuer and submitted no adverse report

dated 03.10.2009. Thereafter, Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvan and

Sri.T.S.Sudarshan had initiated the process note of credit

proposal of accused No.2-company by stipulating various

terms and conditions and submitted to

Sri.C.Balachandran, Assistant General Manager of

Southern Regional Office, Chennai. Further,

Sri.C.Balachandran had signed the process note in the

capacity of Recommending Authority; thereafter, the loan

proposal was placed before the Regional Credit

Committee comprising of Sri.R.Annachamy,

Sri.M.K.Raman and Sri.N.Seetharaman. The Regional

Credit Committee approved the proposal for sanctioning

the term loan of Rs.14 Crores for the purpose of

acquiring software product and the same was sanctioned

by accused No.1-Pranab Kumar Roy, in the capacity as

Sanctioning Authority. 4. It is the further case of the prosecution that, the

accused No.3-D.Ravi Kumar had intimated to

Sri.K.R.Bhaskaran, then Chief Manager, United Bank of

India Bengaluru Branch that, due to pending clearance 6 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 from local revenue department and due to delay of

registration process, the proposed collateral property

bearing Sy.No.145, Amani Belandur, Varthur Hobli,

Bengaluru could not be purchased and he requested to

accept the property situated at Sy.No.110, Doddathogur

Village, Bengaluru measuring 36 guntas, worth of

Rs.9.80 Crores as collateral security in place of property

at Sy.No.145, Amani Belandur, Varthur Hobli, Bengaluru

and assured to arrange additional property worth of

Rs.6.30 Crores in couple of months time; and in the

meanwhile, accused No.3 would arrange fixed deposit of

Rs.6.20 crores from his personal source in United Bank

of India, which will be in lien till collateral security of

equivalent value is arranged. Thereafter,

Sri.K.R.Bhaskaran had forwarded the request of accused

No.3 to Southern Regional Office, Chennai. 5. It is the further case of prosecution that, the

request of accused No.3 was processed at Southern

Regional Office, Chennai by Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvan, Chief

Manager and submitted note regarding modification in

the terms and conditions of the sanction in respect of 7 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 substitution of securities which was recommended by

Sri.C.Balachandran, Assistant General Manager that

keeping in view the fact that there is no dilution in

security and for all liquid security in the nature of fixed

deposits to the tune of Rs.6.31 Crores albeit temporarily

and the same was approved by the Regional Credit

Committee comprising of Sri.L.Anbalagan, Manager

(Advance), Sri. R. Annachamy, Senior Manager (Advance)

and Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy i.e., accused No.1, has

accorded sanction of the modification of earlier sanction

dated 26.11.2009. 6. It is the further case of prosecution that, the

property at Sy.No.110, Doddathoguru Village, Bengaluru

measuring 36 guntas was created registered mortgage at

Sub-Registrar Office, Begur by accused No.3 with United

Bank of India on 31.12.2009 and accused No.3

Sri.D.Ravi Kumar also had arranged for fixed deposit of

Rs.6.31 Crores with United Bank of India, Bengaluru

Branch and the same was pledged under Bank's lien on

07.01.2010. Further, a total amount of loan of

Rs.13,66,56,775/- was released in 5 stages between 8 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 08.01.2010 and 04.02.2010 and remitted to the

beneficiary customer No.773210976 - M/s. Optech

Consulting Inc, Texas, USA through RTGS. 7. Further, it is the case of prosecution that, on

25.03.2010, the accused No.3-D.Ravikumar has provided

additional landed property situated at Sy.No.95,

Anjanapura Village, Bengaluru measuring 1 acre which is

valued by Sri. Srikrishna for Rs.7.84 Crores at the rate of

Rs.1800/- per sq.ft and the same was created equitable

mortgage with United Bank of India Bengaluru on

26.03.2010 with the approval of accused No.1-Pranab

Kumar Roy and thereafter, the Bank's lien on FD of

Rs.6.31 Crores was released. 8. It is the further case of prosecution that, the

accused No.2-Company had serviced installment and

interest of term loan up to September, 2011 and interest

in the cash credit up to December 2011 with the balance

outstanding of Rs.12.61 Crores. That on the request of

accused No.3, the loan account was restructured by a

committee of members by restructuring of over all limit

from existing Rs.16 Crores to Rs.12.82 Crores. That even 9 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 after restructuring of the loan account, the accused No.3

Sri.D.Ravikumar had willfully defaulted repayment

schedule and the account became NPA on 25.10.2012

with outstanding balance with interest of

Rs.13,53,39,706/- as on 30.09.2012. 9. It is the further case of prosecution that,

during July 2012, United Bank of India, while taking

action for sale of both collateral properties, got valued

said properties through M/s. S & V Engineering

Enterprises, Bengaluru who had valued at the rate of

Rs.850/- per Sq.Ft. for both properties, which is far less

than the earlier valuation at the rate of Rs.2,500/- during

2009 and Rs.1,800/- during 2010, respectively. That

accused No.3-D.Ravi Kumar, knowing fully well about the

fact that the valuation of both properties provided as

collateral security is over-valued submitted false

information by suppressing the real facts; and also

colluded with accused No.1-Pranab Kumar Roy in getting

the loan sanctioned for his company by name M/s.Binary

Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru and also to his

own company M/s. Acropetal Technologies Pvt. Ltd., 10 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Bengaluru, held at State Bank of Travancore and United

Bank of India. 10. It is the further case of prosecution that, the

bribe amount of Rs.7 Lakhs was paid to accused No.1-

Pranab Kumar Roy by accused No.3-D.Ravi Kumar

through middlemen namely Sri.Arup Kumar Ghose,

Sri.Gourav Pradhan and Sri.Debasis Das in the mid

November, 2009. Thus, the accused No.1-Pranab Kumar

Roy, while working as Chief Manager at Southern

Regional Office, United Bank of India, Chennai and

accused No.2 M/s.Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt Ltd.,

Bengaluru, represented by its Director Sri.D.Ravikumar

and accused No.3-D.Ravikumar have conspired with each

other and thereby cheated the United Bank of India and

thereby the accused No.1 to 3 are said to be committed

the Charge-Sheeted offences punishable U/Sec. 120-B,

and 420 of IPC and U/Sec. 13(2) r/w. 13(1)(d) of P.C.Act. 11. After submitting Charge-Sheet, this court had

taken cognizance of the offences against accused No.1 to

3 for the offences punishable U/ Sec.120-B and 420 of

IPC and cognizance is also taken for the offence 11 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 punishable U/ Sec.13(2) r/w. 13(1)(d) of PC Act against

accused No.1. The Summons were issued to the accused.

After service of summons, the accused Nos.1 to 3

appeared before the court through their respective

counsels and they were enlarged on bail. The copy of

Charge-Sheet and other materials have been provided to

accused as required under Section 207 of Cr.P.C. 12. It is relevant to note here that, earlier the

accused No.2-Company was represented by accused

No.3. But subsequently, the accused No.3 submitted his

inability to represent the accused No.2-Company in view

of his disqualification as Director from accused No.2-

Company. Therefore, this court vide order

dated:08.06.2023, by exercising the power U/ Sec.305(4) of Cr.P.C., ordered that the case would be proceeded

against accused No.2-Company as per the provision of

said section. 13. After hearing both side regarding framing of

charge, the charges were framed against the accused

Nos.1 to 3 for the offences punishable under Section 120-

B and 420 of IPC and also charge for the offence 12 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 U/ Sec.13(2) r/w.13(1)d) of PC Act was framed against

accused No.1. After framing of charges, the accused

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 14. In order to prove the case against accused

persons, the prosecution has examined 43 witnesses as

per PW.1 to PW.43 and also got marked 135 documents

as per Ex.P1 to P.135. During the evidence of PW.3,

Ex.D1 to D3 are marked and further, Ex.D4 to D9 are

marked with consent. After closing the prosecution side

evidence, the statement of accused was recorded as

provided U/Sec. 313 of Cr.P.C . The accused have denied

the incriminating circumstances found against them in

the prosecution evidence. After recording the statement of

accused, the accused have filed written statement

U/ Sec.313(5) of Cr.P.C. 15. The Ld. Senior Public Prosecutor has relied

upon the following case authorities. 1. State of MP Vs. Ram Singh [(2000) 5
 SCC 88] 2. State of Maharashtra through CBI
 and the Corruption Branch Mumbai
 vs. Balakrishna Dattatreya Kumar [2012 (12) SCC 384] 13 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 3. Neeraj Dutta vs. State (NCT of Delhi )
 2003(4) SCC 731 4. Sharadchandra Vs. State of
 Maharashtra AIR 1984 SC 1622 16. The learned counsel for accused No.1 has

relied upon the following case authorities. 1. C. Kamalakkannan vs. State of
 Tamilnadu [2025 STPL 3075 SC] 2. A. Srinivasa Reddy Vs. Rakesh
 Sharma and Anr [(2023) 8 SSCC 711] 3. A. Srinivasalu Vs. State, Rep. By the
 Inspector of Police [(2023) STPL 7938
 SC] 4. Dinesh Kumar Mathur vs. State of
 M.P. and Others [2025 STPL 1083 SC] 17. The learned counsel for accused No.3 has

relied upon the following authorities; 1. Sunil Bharti Mittal V/s. Central
 Bureau of Investigation [(2015) 4 SCC 609. 2. Anil Khandelwal Vs. Phoenix India
 and another [(2025 SCC Online SC
 1883)] 3. Aneeta Hada V/s. Godfather Travels
 and Tours Private Limited [(2012) 5
 SCC 661) 14 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 4. Indian Oil Corporation Vs. NEPC
 India Ltd., and Anr [(2006) 6 SCC
 736] 5. S.W.Palnitkar and Others Vs. State of
 Bihar and Another [(2002) 1 SCC 241] 6. Satishchandra Ratanlal Shah Vs.
 State of Gujarat and another [(2019) 9
 SCC 148] 7. State of Karnataka Vs. Devendrappa [(2002) 3 SCC 89] 8. Inder Mohan Goswami and Another
 Vs. State of Uttaranchal and Ors . [(2007) 12 SCC 1] 9. Binod Kumar and Another Vs. State
 of Bihar [(2014) 10 SCC 663] 10. Sarbajith Kaur Vs. State of Punjab
 and another [(2023) 3 SCC 423] 11. Deepak Gaba and Others Vs. State of
 U.P and another [(2023) 3 SCC 423] 12. Anukul Singh Vs. State of U.P. and
 another [2025 SCC Online SC 2060] 13. M/s.Alia infrastructure and
 Development Company Pvt. Ltd., Vs.
 State by CBI - WP No.12325/2020 in
 the High Court of Karnataka. 14. 2011 SCC online Kar 3899 - Ismail
 Khan Shah and Other Vs. State by
 CBI . 18. Heard both side. Perused all the records. 15 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 19. For disposal of this case, the points that

would arise for my consideration are as under; 1. Whether the prosecution proves beyond
 all reasonable doubt that, Accused No.1-Pranab
 Kumar Roy, being the Deputy General Manager
 and Chief Regional Manager from 29.4.2008 to
 26.6.2009 and as a General Manager from
 27.6.2009 to 30.04.2010 in United Bank of India
 at Southern Regional Office, Chennai; entered
 into a criminal conspiracy with Accused No.3-D.
 Ravi Kumar and also with Accused No.2-M/s.
 Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., represented
 by its Director-D. Ravi Kumar; and in consequent
 upon the same, Accused No.1 sanctioned credit
 facility of Rs.14 lakhs as Term Loan and Rs.2
 crores as Working Capital to Accused
 No.2-M/s.Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt., Ltd., by
 accepting inflated properties offered as a
 collateral security bearing Sy.No.110 of
 Doddathoguru village measuring 36 Guntas
 valued at Rs.9.80 Crores and village and
 property bearing No.95 of Anjanapura village
 measuring 1 acre valued at Rs.7.84 Crores and
 sanctioned above loan for the purpose of
 purchasing software package 'Medits' and
 accused No.2 and 3 mis-utilised said loan to the
 tune of Rs.16 crores in pursuance of illegal act or 16 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 agreement and thereby accused No.1 to 3
committed the offence of criminal conspiracy
punishable under Section 120-B of IPC ? 2. Whether the prosecution further proves
beyond all reasonable doubt that, Accused No.1-
Pranab Kumar Roy, being a public servant and
accused No.2 M/s. Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt.
Ltd., represented by its Director D. Ravi Kumar
and accused No.3-D. Ravi Kumar dishonestly
induced United Bank of India to sanction loan of
Rs.14 crores towards term loan and Rs.2 crores
towards working capital for the purpose of
procuring software package 'Medits', by
submitting and accepting inflated properties
offered as collateral security bearing Sy.No.110
of Doddathogur village and Sy.No.95 of
Anjanapura village, Bangalore measuring 1 acre
and diverted said loan amount for the purpose
other than for which it was sanctioned, and
caused wrongful loss to United Bank of India,
Bangalore Branch to the tune of
Rs.13,53,39,706/- and corresponding wrongful
gain and cheated United Bank of India,
Bangalore branch and thereby, Accused No.1 to
3 committed offence punishable under Section
420 r/w. 120-B of IPC ? 3. Whether the prosecution proves beyond
 all reasonable doubt that, Accused No.1, being
 the public servant as Deputy General Manager
 and Chief Regional Manager at Southern
 Regional Office, Chennai, United Bank of India,
 obtained bribe amount of Rs.7 lakhs i.e. Rs.2
 lakhs on 10.7.2009 and Rs.5 lakhs on
 9.10.2009 through account of M/s. Baba
 Sathyanarayana from accused No.2-Company,
 as a reward for sanctioning the loan and
 thereby, accused No.1 by corrupt or by illegal
 means obtained pecuniary advantage of Rs.7
 lakhs by abusing his position as a public
 servant and caused wrongful loss to United
 Bank of India, Bangalore Branch and thereby
 committed criminal misconduct punishable
 under Section 13(2) r/w Sec.13(1)(d) of
 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 ? 4. What order ? 20. My findings to the above stated points are as

as under; Point No.1 : In the Negative
 Point No.2 : In the Negative
 Point No.3 : In the Negative
 Point No.4 : As per the final order
 for the following; REASONS

Sanction in respect of Accused No.1:- 21. The accused No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy, the

then Chief Regional Manager, Southern Regional office,

United Bank of India, Chennai, who worked at relevant

point of time in the United Bank of India, was retired

from service on 31.10.2011; hence, no sanction for

prosecution is required U/ Sec.19 of PC Act, 1988, as per

dictum laid down in the case of State of Kerala Vs.

V.Padmanabham Nair (1999) 5 SCC 690, wherein it is

held that, 'a person who ceased to be a public servant on

the date when the court took cognizance, no sanction

under section 19 of PC Act is required'. 22. Points No.1 to 3: As these points are

interconnected and inter-related; hence, they are taken

together for common discussion in order avoid repetition

of facts. 23. It bears a heavy burden on the prosecution to

prove beyond reasonable doubt that, the accused No.1-

Pranab Kumar Roy, being a Public Servant worked as 19 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Chief Regional Manager in the United Bank of India at

Southern Regional office, Chennai, at relevant point of

time, had criminally conspired with accused No.3-

D.Ravikumar and accused No.2-M/s. Binary Spectrum

Softech Pvt. Ltd, a Registered Company and in pursuance

of said conspiracy, the accused No.2-Company duly

represented by accused No.3-D.Ravi Kumar, had applied

for a loan for the purpose of purchasing a software

product called 'MEDITS' from an overseas vendor by

name M/s.Optech Consulting Inc., Texas, USA, by

inflating the value of properties offered as collateral

security and as a result, accused No.1 has sanctioned

credit facility of Rs.14 Crores as Term Loan and Rs.2

Crores as Working Capital to the Accused

No.2-M/s.Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., by entering

into illegal agreement with accused No.2 and 3; and

thereby, accused No.2 and 3 have dishonestly induced

the United Bank of India to sanction Rs.16 Crores as

loan for the purpose of procuring software product

'MEDITS' from an overseas vendor, and after sanction,

they diverted said loan amount for the purpose other 20 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 than for which it was sanctioned and as a result, the

account of accused No.2-Company became NPA, thereby

they caused wrongful loss to United Bank of India,

Bengaluru Branch, Bengaluru to the tune of

Rs.13,53,39,706/-, and thereby cheated the Bank; and

accused No.1, who being a pubic servant as Chief

Regional Manager working at Southern Regional Office,

Chennai, had obtained a pecuniary advantage of Rs.7

Lakh through the account of M/s. Baba Sathyanarayana

& Co. from the end of accused No.2 and 3 as a reward for

the purpose of sanctioning the loan to accused No.2-

Company by corrupt and illegal means and thereby

accused No.1 has abused his position as public servant

and thereby, he committed criminal misconduct as

defined U/ Sec.13(1)(d) of PC Act; and thereby the

accused No.2 and 3 have committed the offences

punishable U/ Sec.120-B and 420 of IPC; and accused

No.1 has committed the offences punishable U/ Sec.120-

B and 420 of IPC and U/ Sec.13(2) read with Sec.13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. 24. Accordingly, this court has framed charges

against accused No.1 for the offences punishable

U/ Sec.120-B & 420 of Indian Penal Code and

U/ Sec.13(2) r/w. Sec.13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption

Act-1988; and also framed charges against accused No.2

and 3 for the offences punishable U/ Sec.120-B and 420 of Indian Penal Code. 25. Before proceeding to appreciate the evidence

adduced by the prosecution to prove the charges levelled

against accused No.1 to 3, let me take note of the

arguments submitted by both side. The Arguments of Prosecution: 26. It is vehemently argued by the learned Public

Prosecutor for CBI that, the prosecution has proved the

charges leveled against accused No.1 to 3, beyond

reasonable doubt. It is argued that, based on the

complaint lodged by PW.1, a FIR in RC.17(A)/2013 came

to be registered against the accused by CBI/ACB,

Bengaluru. The Investigating Officer has conducted a

thorough investigation, collected several documents from

the concerned authorities and finally, after having found 22 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 that there are sufficient materials to suggest that the

accused No.1 to 3 have committed the alleged offences;

hence, he submitted charge sheet against them for the

offences punishable U/ Sec.120-B and 420 of IPC and

U/ Sec.13(2) read with Sec.13(1)(d) of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988. 27. It is further argued that, the Bank has

conducted an internal investigation into the anomalies in

the account of accused No.2-Company. After

investigation/enquiry, the internal investigation team

submitted detailed report as per Ex.P6; wherein, it found

several irregularities in respect of credit facility

sanctioned to accused No.2-Company. That the

prosecution evidence, both oral as well as documentary,

specifically shows that accused No.1, who being a

responsible officer of the Bank, had not obtained

Technical and Economic Viability Report at the time of

sanction of loan to accused No.2-Company; not obtained

due diligence report in respect of overseas vendor as

required under the Circulars of Bank; overvaluation of

properties offered as collateral security is accepted and 23 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 submitted; no independent assessment of value of

properties was undertaken by the Regional office/Branch

during the time of sanction; and thereby, in collusion

with accused No.2 and 3, the accused No.1 has

sanctioned the loan in gross violation of rules and

regulations of the Bank and thereby facilitated the

accused No.2 and 3 to divert the loan to other purpose;

and for which, the accused No.1 has obtained Rs.7 Lakh

as pecuniary advantage from accused No.2 and 3 as a

reward. That accused No.2 and 3 have offered overvalued

properties as collateral securities, thereby they

dishonestly induced the Bank, in causing loss to the

Bank to the tune of Rs.13.54 Crores and thereby, they

cheated the United Bank of India. 28. It is further argued that, the accused No.1, as

General Manager, Regional Office, Chennai has

sanctioned the loan of Rs.16 Crores to accused No.2-

Company, without carefully examining the materials and

thereby he has committed misconduct within the

meaning of Sec.13 of Prevention of Corruption Act. That

there is sufficient material to show that accused No.1 has 24 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 obtained bribe from accused No.2 and 3. That PW.27,

PW.28 and PW.29 have specifically stated in their

respective statements recorded before the learned

Magistrate U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., regarding payment of

Rs.5 Lakhs and Rs.2 Lakhs to the account of M/s. Baba

Sathynarayana & Co., on two occasions through RTGS;

in turn, said amount of Rs.7 Lakhs was handed over to

the wife of accused No.1. Though PW.27, PW.28 and

PW.29 have been retracted from their respective

statements recorded U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., but their

statements have to be appreciated in view of Sec.157 of

Indian Evidence Act. That Sec.157 of Indian Evidence Act

makes it clear that, a statement U/ Sec.164 Cr.P.C. could

be used for both corroboration and contradiction and it

could also be used to corroborate the testimonies of other

witnesses. Thus, the circumstances which brought

PW.27, PW.28 and PW.29 into the scene itself clearly goes

to show that, the bribe amount was received by the

accused No.1 as a reward for sanctioning the loan in

favour of accused No.2-Company. 29. It is further argued by the learned Public

Prosecutor that, much importance has to be given to the

statements of PW.27 to PW.29 recorded U/ Sec.164 of

Cr.P.C., as said statements stand on different footage

compared to statements recorded U/ Sec.161 and 162 of

Cr.P.C. That in terms of relevancy, admissibility and

reliability are concerned, a due importance has to be

given to a statements recorded U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C.,

considering the facts and circumstances of each case.

The learned Public Prosecutor further argued that, it is

true that, in the case on hand, PW.27 to PW.29 have been

retracted from their respective statements; however, the

circumstances suggest that said witnesses have been

won over by the accused No.1, therefore the Court has to

examine the circumstances in which the statement was

recorded and the reasons stated by the witnesses for

retracting from the statement. 30. It is further argued that, the prosecution

records suggest that, though the accused No.2 company

has shown an address in the documents submitted to the

Bank as its own; but in realty, said company was 26 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 purportedly functioning from the premises of another

company by name M/s. Acropetal Technologies Pvt. Ltd.

Further, the evidence of PW.7-K.S.Venkatakrishnan, a

registered valuer of property indicates that the accused

No.2 and 3 have overvalued the properties offered as

collateral security and thereby, they have cheated the

Bank. 31. Lastly, it is argued by the learned Public

Prosecutor that, though there is no direct evidence to

establish that accused No.1 has obtained the bribe of

Rs.7 Lakhs as reward for sanctioning of loan to accused

No.2-Company, but there is reliable circumstantial

evidence adduced by the prosecution to connect the

accused No.1 with acceptance of bribe. In support of his

contention, the learned Public Prosecutor has relied upon

a judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court passed in the case of

Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharashtra,

[AIR 1994 SC 1622]. With this line of argument, the

learned Public Prosecutor prays this court to convict 27 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 the accused No.1 to 3 for the charge-sheeted

offences. The Arguments on behalf of Accused No.1: 32. The learned counsel for accused No.1 has

vehemently argued that accused No.1 has only issued

sanction order as per approval of Credit Committee and

recommendation made by the Recommending Committee.

That absolutely there is no evidence at all to connect the

accused No.1 either with the offence punishable

U/ Sec.120-B of IPC or with offence punishable U/ Sec.13 of Prevention of Corruption Act. That the Branch has

forwarded the loan proposal, Credit committee gave

approval and recommending committee has

recommended the loan proposal of accused No.2-

company; thus, only on the basis of recommendation of

Credit Committee and Recommending Committee, the

accused No.1 has sanctioned the loan. But without

arraying the Manager of the Branch and Committee

Members as accused, this accused No.1 alone has been 28 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 falsely implicated in the case by the Investigating Officer,

which shows the bias attitude. 33. During the course of arguments, the learned

counsel for the accused No.1 has highlighted the

evidence of PW.1, PW.2, PW.3, PW.5, PW.30, PW.31,

PW.32, PW.34, PW.35, PW.37 and PW.42 in order to show

that accused No.1 has acted in good-faith while

sanctioning the loan to accused No.2-Company and he

has not committed any irregularities in sanctioning the

loan. Further, the learned counsel has also highlighted

the evidence of PW.27, PW.28, PW.29, PW.38, PW.41 and

PW.42 in order to establish the innocence of accused

No.1 with regard to the allegation of bribe of Rs.7 Lakhs

made against him. 34. The learned counsel further argued that, as per

the evidence of above said prosecution witnesses, except

sanctioning the loan, the accused No.1 has not done

anything which is illegal. Admittedly, the accused No.1

was not a member of Recommending Committee, which

has examined all the loan papers forwarded by the

Branch and upon finding them as proper and free from 29 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 any irregularity, then only the committee has

recommended for the loan. Therefore, the prosecution

has failed to prove that the accused No.1 has conspired

with accused No.2 and 3 and thereby committed cheating

and fraud against the United Bank of India. 35. With regard to allegation of acceptance of Rs.7

Lakhs as pecuniary advantage from accused No.2 and 3

by the accused No.1, it is argued that, there is no iota of

evidence to show demand and acceptance of bribe by the

accused No.1 as alleged by the prosecution. He argued

that, PW.27, PW.28 and PW.29 who said to be given their

statements before Magistrate U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., have

all turned hostile and not deposed positively in respect of

payment of Rs.5 Lakh and Rs.2 Lakh to accused No.1 on

two occasions through the account of M/s.Baba

Sathyanarayana & Co., which is belonging to PW.29.

Even in their respective cross examinations done by the

prosecution also, nothing was elicited to establish the

allegation of bribe. Thus, the learned counsel contended

that, there is no evidentiary value attached to the

Sec.164 Statements of PW.27, PW.28 and PW.29 in the 30 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 absence of positive oral evidence to prove the contents of

said statements. 36. Thus, lastly, it is argued that, as the

prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charges of

Criminal Conspiracy, Cheating & Fraud and Criminal

Misconduct punishable U/ Secs.120-B and 420 of IPC

and U/ Sec.13(2) of PC Act, against accused No.1.

Accordingly, it is prayed to acquit the accused No.1. The Argument on behalf of Accused No.3: 37. The learned counsel for accused No.3 has

argued that, from the evidence recorded and documents

marked on behalf of prosecution in the case on hand, it is

seen that, there is no cogent material brought out by the

prosecution to prove the charge of criminal conspiracy in

availing the credit facility for accused No.2-Company; and

accused No.3 was not a Managing Director of said

company, and was not involved in the day-today affairs of

accused No.2-Company. That admittedly, the loan has

been sanctioned in the name of M/s.Binary Spectrum

Softech Pvt. Ltd. i.e. accused No.2; therefore, accused 31 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 No.3 cannot be prosecuted vicariously for the alleged

offences. 38. It is further argued that, the evidence of

prosecution witnesses, more particularly Bank Officers

and Bank Panel Advocates and Valuers, reveals that the

Bank has followed all due process and due diligence and

thereafter, the Bank has accorded a loan to accused

No.2-Company. That collateral security offered by

accused No.3 as Guarantor has also been examined in all

aspect and property was also inspected by the empaneled

valuer and accordingly, gave valuation reports as per

Ex.P45 and P48 and said properties have been accepted

by the Bank for the purpose of collateral security. 39. It is further argued that, the loan was

sanctioned only after following due procedure and

thereafter, the loan amount was disbursed by the Branch

only after compliance of terms and conditions of

sanction. Such being the case, the allegation that

accused No.2 and 3 have conspired with accused No.1 in

obtaining loan illegally is not established by the

prosecution. Thus, there is no any iota of evidence to 32 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 show any alleged conspiracy by accused No.3 with

accused No.1 in any manner in availing the credit facility

for accused No.2-Company. 40. It is further argued that, after disbursement of

loan, the loan so granted for accused No.2-Company, has

been utilized for the purpose for which it was granted and

no incriminating evidence is produced either direct or

circumstantial to show any diversion of funds of loan by

the accused No.2 or accused No.3. That CBI has

unnecessarily roped the accused No.3 in the case on

hand merely because he was one of the Directors of

accused No.2-Company. That due to some unavoidable

reasons, accused No.2-Company has sustained loss;

therefore, the account of company became NPA due to

non-payment of loan. That the Bank initiated recovery

proceedings and also filed complaint before CBI with

intention to put pressure on the accused No.2-Company

for settlement. Thus, the Bank has converted a pure civil

liability into a criminal case as a tool or instrument for

unlawful purpose. 41. It is further argued that, the evidence of

PW.42-Investigating Officer discloses that the loan

documents were duly scrutinized by concurrent officer,

legal officer, panel valuer and similarly by monitoring

officer. Further, his evidence goes to show that, the loan

amount sanctioned was credited to the account of

overseas vendor. Further, the evidence of I.O. also shows

that concerned Bank Officer has conducted a pre-

inspection of property in Sy.No.110 of Doddathogur

village and has submitted his report in recommending

the grant of loan. Therefore, in view of evidence of

prosecution witnesses including I.O., it clearly indicates

that, the prosecution has utterly failed in demonstrating

that there is a fraud committed in availing the loan and

thereby the accused have cheated the Bank, in

pursuance of their criminal conspiracy. With this line of

argument, the learned counsel for the accused No.3 has

prayed this court to acquit the accused No.3.

The Prosecution Evidence in respect of Accused No.1: 42. In the background of arguments advanced by

both Prosecution as well as Defense side, when we 34 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 appreciate the evidence on record, both oral as well as

documentary, it would go to show that, there is no any

dispute with regard to sanction of loan in favour of

accused No.2-M/s. Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt Ltd, to

the tune of Rs.16 Crores for the purpose of procuring a

software product called 'MEDITS' from an Overseas

Vendor namely M/s.Optech Consultancy Inc., Texas,

USA. It is also an undisputed fact that accused No.3-

D.Ravikumar was authorized by the accused No.2-

Company through a resolution dated:05.11.2009 to open

an account in the name of accused No.2 with the United

Bank of India and to operate all the transactions relating

to the account of accused No.2-company. It is also on

record that, all the correspondences were done by the

accused No.3 in the capacity as 'Director' on behalf of

accused No.2-company with United Bank of India in

respect of loan proposal of accused No.2-Company. Thus,

it is very clear that, accused No.3, who is Director of

accused No.2-Company, has actively participated in the

loan transactions of accused No.2-Company. Therefore,

the contention of counsel for the accused No.3 that, the 35 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 accused No.3 cannot be held responsible vicariously, is

not acceptable. 43. That PW.1-Sri.D.Sinha, then Deputy General

Manager and Regional Manager of United Bank of India,

Bengaluru, is the person who has set the criminal law

into motion by lodging complaint against M/s. Binary

Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru (i.e., accused

No.2) in respect of some anomalies in advances to the

tune of Rs.16 crores pertaining to account of accused

No.2-Company maintained at United Bank of India,

Bengaluru Branch, Bengaluru. His complaint filed before

the CBI is marked as Ex.P1, in the case on hand. His

evidence, in his examination-in-chief, would go to show

that, the accused No.2-Company submitted a credit

proposal for Rs.16 crores with Bengaluru Branch of

United Bank of India, said proposal was recommended by

then Branch Manager and Assistant General Manager

Sri.A.Banerjee for sanction to the Southern Regional

office, Chennai and it was approved/sanctioned by

Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy [i.e., accused No.1], the then

General Manager and Chief Regional Manager, Southern 36 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Region, Chennai, which includes Rs.14 Crore as term

loan and Rs.2 Crore as working capital. According to this

witness, the borrower [i.e. accused No.2-Company] did

not repay the loan amount as per original terms and

conditions stipulated in the agreement, and when the

borrower did not repay the amount, the account became

NPA as on 30.09.2012 and as on that date, the amount

due was Rs.13.53 crores which includes outstanding and

unapplied interest. Further, as per evidence of this

witness, the Internal Vigilance Department of United

Bank of India has investigated the matter and found that

at the time of sanctioning loan, Branch did not obtain

Techno-Economic Viability Report and also due diligence

report from Dun and Bradstreet, to know the credibility

of the overseas vendors. 44. Further, PW.2-Sri.Dibakar Bhattacharjee,

then Chief Manager, Vigilance Department, United Bank

of India, Kolkata, is the person who has conducted the

internal investigation into the irregularities found in the

account of M/s. Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd. He

conducted the investigation along with one 37 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Sri.D.Krishnamurthy, Chief Manager, on the instruction

of Chief Vigilance Officer. His evidence discloses that,

from their investigation, they found that the loan of Rs.16

crores was sanctioned to accused No.2-Company for

procuring software package named 'MEDITS' from a

overseas vendor M/s. Optech Consulting Inc. Texas,

USA, without undertaking Techno-Economic Viability

Study Report through an attested agency to assess the

Techno Economic Viability of the project and no due

diligence was conducted in respect of overseas vendor.

Further, the internal investigation team consists of this

witness and another, also found that the foreign

remittance was made without due approval from the

Regional Office. 45. PW.3-Sri.C.Balachandran, the then Deputy

General Manager (Finance) in United Bank of India, Head

Office, Kolkata and also worked as Assistant General

Manager, at Southern Regional Office, United Bank of

India, Chennai, at relevant point of time; whose evidence

goes to show that, the loan proposal of accused No.2 was

submitted by Branch Office along with its 38 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 recommendation for sanction of credit facility to the

Regional Office and it was processed in the Regional

Office by Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvam and Sri.T.S.Sudarshan,

who are the initiating officers. After initiating the

proposal, said proposal was placed before him and he,

after going through the proposal, recommended the

proposal as recommending authority and placed before

the Credit Committee consisting of Sri.Annachamy and

Sri.N.Seetaramaiah for approval. Said committee

approved the sanction of credit facility and finally, the

loan proposal was placed before accused No.1-Pranab

Kumar Roy, the General Manager for his sanction, who

was the sanctioning authority to sanction the credit

facility and finally the loan was sanctioned on 23.10.2009

as per Ex.P4(g) and after the sanction, the loan was

disbursed by the concerned Branch to the

Borrower/concerned. This witness has specifically

deposed that they have not taken TEV study report

because at that time, the lending policy did not prescribe

for such report. 46. PW.5-Sri.Arupendu Banerjee, the then Branch

Manager of Bengaluru Branch, is the officer who has

forwarded the loan proposal of accused No.2-company

with recommendation to the Regional Office, Chennai;

and whose evidence in his examination-in-chief goes to

show that, the accused No.3 has submitted a request for

loan as per Ex.P5(c) in the capacity as Director of

accused No.2-Company. After receiving loan application,

he advised then Chief Manager-Sri.K.V.Murali to

undertake pre-sanction inspection and said

Sri.K.V.Murali submitted his report as per Ex.P5(d).

Thereafter, he forwarded loan proposal along with pre-

inspection report to the Regional Office, Chennai.

Further, an officer from Regional Office and himself, have

jointly inspected the Unit and the property offered for

mortgage and both submitted joint report as per Ex.P5(e).

Thereafter, Regional Office has sanctioned the credit

facility to accused No.2-Company as per Ex.P5(f).

Thereafter, the Branch has requested one Sri.K.Prasanna

Kumar to conduct verification of company, he conducted

verification and submitted his report as per Ex.P5(o). 40 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 47. PW.30-Sri.K.R.Baskaran, who worked as Chief

Manager during 2009 in United Bank of India at

Bengaluru Branch, Bengaluru, has deposed that, he has

dealt with the credit account of M/s.Binary Spectrum

Softech Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru after he assumed charge as

Chief Manager at Bengaluru Branch. As per his evidence,

he has complied with terms and conditions of sanction

and disbursed the loan amount after getting approval

from Southern Regional Office. This witness has

identified Ex.P4(e), the terms and conditions of said loan

and Ex.P4(f) is the covering letter for sanction of the loan

and two valuation reports submitted by accused No.3 are

identified by this witness as per Ex.P4(y) and Ex.P4(z).

According to this witness, it is necessary to obtain

Techno-Economic Viability Report of the project and due

diligence report in respect of overseas vendor, but that

was not done in the present case. 48. PW.31-Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvan, who joined as

Chief Manager (Advances) at Southern Regional Office,

Chennai during the year 2009 has deposed that, he has

processed the loan application of M/s.Binary Spectrum 41 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Softech Pvt. Ltd. After processing the said application, it

was submitted to the recommending authority and

recommending authority has recommended for

sanctioning the loan and finally, the Chief Manager of

Southern Regional Office i.e. accused No.1-Sri.Pranab

Kumar Roy had sanctioned the loan of Rs.16 Crores to

accused No.2-Company. This witness has identified

Ex.P4(e), which is a process note prepared by him while

processing the loan application of accused No.2-

Company. 49. PW.32-Sri.T.S.Sudarsan, who worked as a

Senior Manager (Credit Department) at Southern

Regional Office, Chennai, during the period from May-

2009 to May 2010, has deposed that as a Senior Manager

(Credit Department), he used to receive the proposals

from different branches. After verifying the proposals and

on advise of seniors, he used to allot the said proposals

to different officers in the department for processing and

to put up the proposal before the Credit Committee and

further for sanction before the competent authority. That,

loan application of accused No.2-company was processed 42 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 by him and PW.31-Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvan. His evidence

further discloses that, while processing the loan

application, he has verified the documents enclosed with

the loan application such as balance-sheet, income-tax

returns of the individuals and companies, KYC

documents of the companies and the project report. 50. PW.34-Sri. N.Seetharaman, who served as

Senior Manager (Administration) in the United Bank of

India at Southern Regional Office, Chennai during the

year 2008-09, has deposed that, he was a member of

Regional Credit Committee during the year 2008-09. The

loan proposal of accused No.2-Company was initiated by

then Chief Manager-Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvan and

recommended by Assistant General Manager

Sri.C.Balachandran. That said proposal was placed

before the Credit Committee for recommendation for

approval; and himself, Sri.Annachamy and

Sri.M.K.Raman were the members of the said credit

committee. That himself and another member of

Committee have gone through the process note and

considered the parameters of proposal and security and 43 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 thereafter, recommended for sanction by the General

Manager. 51. PW.35-Sri.R.Annachamy, who worked as

Senior Manager in the United Bank of India at Southern

Regional Office, Southern Division, during the year 2008-

09, has deposed that, he was one of the Regional Credit

Committee members during that period and himself and

Sri.Seetharaman have verified the process note and

approved the proposal for final sanction. According to

this witness, since the loan proposal was in respect of

software which is intangible in nature, their lending

policy says that, in such credit exposure, it should cover

100% collateral security of tangible nature. He further

deposed that, the Branch has submitted modified

proposal for substitution of security since there was some

difficulty for execution of fire security submitted along

with the original proposal. The modified proposal for

substitution of security was also approved by the

Regional Committee as per Ex.P4(n). 52. Thus, the plain reading of testimony of PW.1,

PW.2, PW.3, PW.5, PW.30, PW.31, PW.32, PW.34 and 44 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 PW.35 in their respective examinations-in-chief, would go

to suggest that, except sanctioning the loan of Rs.16

Crores to accused No.2-M/s.Binary Spectrum Softech

Pvt. Ltd., the accused No.1 did not play any vital role in

sanctioning the loan to accused No.2-company illegally in

order to cheat United Bank of India in conspiracy with

accused No.2 and 3. The very own evidence of officers of

United Bank of India, goes to show that, the Branch has

forwarded the loan proposal, Credit committee gave

approval and recommending committee has

recommended the loan proposal of accused No.2-

company; thus, only on the basis of recommendation of

Credit Committee and Recommending Committee, the

accused No.1 has sanctioned the loan. None of the

prosecution witnesses above named, have deposed that

while forwarding the loan proposal of accused No.2-

Company or approving it or recommending it to the

Regional office for sanction, the accused No.1 has not

swayed them away. 53. Further, when we peruse the evidence of

aforesaid witnesses in their respective cross 45 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 examinations, it is seen that, PW.2-Sri.Dibakar

Bhattacharjee has admitted that, the loan proposal sent

in this case was as per lending policy prevailing as on

that day and accused No.1, then Chief Manager of

Southern Regional Office, Chennai, was having discretion

to sanction the loan and before sanction of loan by the

chief Manager, the matter would go before the

committees which are the initiating authority, processing

authority and recommending authority and then, the file

would be placed before the chief Manager for sanction. It

is also admitted by PW.2 that, in the present case, the

loan file was processed before the committees and

recommended the loan proposal to sanctioning authority

and the discretion was exercised by accused No.1-chief

Manager for sanction of loan and thereafter, it was

approved by the Executive Director in the Head Office.

Kolkata. Further, this witness stated that he does not

know exactly whether in respect of importing software,

TEV report is not essential or mandatory; however, this

witness further admitted that subsequently, at the time

of restructuring of loan, TEV report was obtained. 46 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Further, during his cross-examination, PW.2 admitted

that, subsequently, during CBI investigation, he came to

know that, the end use certificate had been obtained by

accused No.2 and made available to the Bank. This

witness also admitted that in the report Ex.P6 and P7,

they mentioned loan was disbursed to various vendors

without the approval of Regional Office and Head Office,

but subsequently they noticed that during the

investigation of CBI, such approval was obtained. 54. Further, during his cross-examination done by

the accused No.1, PW.3-Sri.C.Balachandran has stated

that he was involved in loan sanction process and he did

not see any lacunae or irregularity in the loan proposal.

Further, this witness has stated that, accused No.1 has

accorded the sanction as per Ex.P4(f) on the

recommendation of recommending committee and the

sanction made by the accused No.1 was in accordance

with the lending policy prevailing as on that date. He also

admitted that, finally the sanction of credit facility has to

be approved by the Executive Director of the Bank in

Head Office, at Kolkata. He further admitted that as per 47 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Ex.D1 dated:05.02.2010, a noting of credit proposal by 3

members was sent to Executive Director which contained

the loan proposal of accused No.2 and along with other

two proposals. He also admitted that as per Ex.D1(a), the

Executive Director has made his endorsement as

'examine and put up' after proposal was approved by

him. According to this witness, accused No.2-Company

neither comes under Infrastructural Industry nor under

Industrial projects nor under public services. The end

use certificate in respect of this type of credit facility has

to be issued by Chartered Accountant. This witness also

admitted that he has not noticed in Ex.P4 [i.e. loan file of

accused No.2-Company] any irregularity done by the

accused No.1 with regard to his power. 55. Further, during his cross-examination done by

the accused No.1, PW.5-Sri.Arupendu Banerjee has

stated that there was no influence from Regional Office

for sending any proposal of accused No.2 or for showing

any favour. The proposal has been sent in the normal

banking procedure. 56. Further, during his cross-examination done by

the accused No.1, PW.30-K.R.Baskaran has stated that,

Initiating Authority is consisting of Senior Manager and

Chief Manager; Recommending Authority is Assistant

General Manager and Credit Committee was consisting of

3 Senior Managers. This witness further admitted that,

PW.3-Sri.C.Balachandran was Assistant General Manager

and he was the recommending authority for the loan

proposal of accused No.2-Company; that said

Sri.C.Balachandran has signed as a recommending

authority on Ex.P4(e); initiating authorities consisting of

Senior Manager-Sri.T.S.Sudarshan and Chief Manager-

Sri.Tamil Selvan have initiated this loan transaction and

credit committee consists of 3 Senior Managers viz.,

Sri.R.Annachamy, Sri.M.K.Raman and

Sri.N.Seetharaman, have put their signatures by

recommending the loan proposal. Further, this witness

has admitted that, Branch office disbursing a loan has to

send a credit disbursement monitoring sheet to the

controlling office and Branch Manager authorizes the

disbursal and he was the Branch Manager at that time. 49 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 He admitted that Ex.P4(e) was sent to the Branch office

from Regional Office before disbursement. 57. Further, during his cross examination done by

the accused Nos.2 and 3, PW.30 has stated that the

concurrent auditor was posted in the United Bank of

India Bengaluru since it is a very large Branch. The

concurrent auditor will check the transactions on the

following in respect of transactions of the previous day

and this witness has admitted that, if concurrent auditor

brings to the notice of the Manager any mistakes in the

transactions, it will be rectified immediately. He further

admitted that the Branch has to submit a periodical

monthly control report every month to the controlling

officer informing him the status of all the accounts

beyond threshold limits. Further, he admitted that,

whenever a request is received from a person for sanction

of loan, the concerned Branch Manager will mark it to

the officer dealing with credit, the said officer after

verifying the documents and also visiting the office if

necessary and also verify the antecedents of the project/

proposal and also after verifying the securities, if satisfied 50 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 will be recommended under the signature of Manager and

thereafter, proposal will be sent to the Regional Office,

Chennai. Further, he also admitted that, if the Manager

of the Branch is not satisfied regarding the title of the

property and the value of the property offered as a

security, the sanctioned loan will not be disbursed.

Further, this witness has admitted that when he took

charge of the bank, all the procedural aspects in respect

of present loan transactions were completed and loan

had been sanctioned by the controlling office and it was

at the stage of disbursement of loan amount. 58. Further, during his cross-examination done by

the accused No.1, PW.31-Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvan has

admitted that, he was one of the initiating authorities

along with PW.32-T.S.Sudarshan and initiating authority

generally verify whether proposal submitted by the

Branch office is in confirmation with lending policy of

that period; in case, if there are any dilution from lending

policy in the proposal submitted by the Branch office,

then, they will refer the file to Head Office instead of

referring to the recommending authority. He admitted 51 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 that, himself and another initiating authority

Sri.T.S.Sudarshan, have recommended the loan proposal

of accused No.2-Company to the recommending

authority. He also admitted that before recommending to

the recommending authority, they have scrutinized the

loan proposal. He further admitted that, there was no any

irregularity in the proposal; therefore, they have

recommended to the recommending authority and then

only, the recommending authority has recommended said

loan; and thereafter, the file comes to Regional Credit

Committee or recommending authority, and in this case,

the loan proposal of accused No.2-Company has been

approved by the Regional Credit Committee. 59. That PW.31-Sri.K.R.Tamil Selvan, has further

admitted that once the loan proposal is scrutinized by the

initiating authority, recommended by the recommending

authority and approved by the Regional Credit

Committee, then there cannot be any bar for the General

Manager to sanction the loan. According to this witness,

there was no irregularity or infirmity in the approval by

the Regional Committee for sanction of loan by the 52 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 sanctioning authority, except three conditions mentioned

in the terms and conditions of sanction for pre-

disbursement and Pre-disbursement conditions are to be

complied before disbursement of the amount. This

witness has further admitted that there is no deviation

from lending policy by accused No.1 in sanctioning the

loan to accused No.2-Company. 60. Further, during his cross-examination, PW.32-

T.S.Sudarshan has admitted that, the loan proposal [of

accused No.2-Company] was in conformity with the

lending policy for that period. Regrading procedure as to

initiating, scrutinizing of loan documents, recommending

and approval by the Credit committee, this witness has

admitted the suggestions of defense side, on the similar

lines of PW.31-K.R.Tamil Selvan. This witness has also

admitted that without recommendation of the

recommending authority and the approval by the

Regional Credit Committee, sanctioning authority cannot

sanction the loan. This witness has further admitted that

in the case of sanction of loan to accused No.2-Company,

there is a proper initiation, proper recommendation and 53 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 proper approval by the Regional Credit Committee. This

witness has also admitted that Techno-Economic

Viability Report was not compulsory for software projects

during that period. 61. Further, during his cross examination done by

the accused Nos.2 and 3, PW.34-N.Seetharaman has

admitted that, after receiving loan application, the

Branch sends application, process note and

recommendation to the Regional Office and in the

Regional Office, the Initiating Officer goes through the

application, process note and the recommendation and

he prepares a separate process note which will be placed

before recommending authority; thereafter,

recommending authority recommends the proposal, if he

is satisfied with the credibility of the proposal. After the

recommending authority recommends the proposal, it

comes to the Regional Credit Committee for scrutiny.

Thereafter, the Credit Committee will approve the

proposal for sanction. He identified Ex.P4(e) which is the

endorsement made by the Regional Credit Committee

which was approved for sanction. After the Regional 54 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Committee approves the proposal for sanction, the

proposal goes to the sanctioning authority for sanction;

thereafter, sanctioning authority will go through the

proposal and finally accords the Sanction. 62. Further, during his cross examination done by

the accused No.2 and 3, PW.35-R.Annachamy has

admitted that the proposal for advancement has to be

made in the Branch where the customer is having

account. In some cases, in case of a big proposal, the

customer can directly submit the loan application to the

Regional Office which will be forwarded to the Branch for

processing. He further stated that he does not know

whether loan application in the present case was

submitted directly to the Regional Office or through the

Branch. He also admitted that the sanction accorded by

the sanctioning authority is to be forwarded to the

Executive Director at Kolkata and the Executive Director

has authority to direct to re-examine the noting sent for

approval; in case, the Executive Director does not

approve the noting, then, the sanction accorded by the

sanctioning authority will be withheld. This witness has 55 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 identified Ex.D1 which is noting of Executive Director

approving the sanction of proposal in respect of accused

No.2-Company. By seeing Ex.D3, this witness also stated

that, the Executive Director has approved the

substitution of security which was recommended by the

Regional Credit Committee and also approved by the

sanctioning authority. 63. Further, in his cross examination done by the

accused No.1, PW.37-Sri.L.Anbalagan has stated that as

a member of Regional Credit Committee, he did not find

any lapses in the proposal sent by the Branch Manager

and the matter did not come before Regional Credit

Committee for re-appraisal. 64. Thus, cumulative reading of entire evidence of

PW.1, PW.2, PW.3, PW.5, PW.30, PW.31, PW.32, PW.34,

PW.35 and PW.37, who are the main material witnesses

for the prosecution case, goes to show that, the accused

No.1 has not involved in conspiracy with accused No.2

and 3, at any point of time, in sanctioning loan to

accused No.2-Company and according to the evidence of

above said material witnesses of prosecution, the loan 56 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 has been properly processed, recommended, approved

and thereafter, finally sanctioned by the accused No.1-

Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy. Moreover, as per Ex.D1 to D3,

accused No.1 has exercised his discretionary power in

sanctioning the loan and its modification. Therefore,

there is nothing which suggests accused No.1 has

sanctioned the loan to accused No.2-Company by

violating due procedure of the Bank and against lending

policy of the Bank. 65. It is important to note here that, in the

complaint-Ex.P1 itself, at the last Paragraph of Main

Paragraph No.4, it is specifically mentioned that, 'the

proposal [i.e. loan proposal of accused No.2-Company] was

forwarded by Bangalore Branch to Southern Regional

Office, Chennai on 05.09.2009 under the signature of Shri.

A. Banerjee [i.e. PW.5] Assistant General Manager,

recommending for sanction of Term Loan of Rs.14 Crores

and Cash Credit of 2 Crores by violating the bank norms,

without verifying the marketability of the guaranteed

properties and creditworthiness of borrowers'. Thus, from

the very averment of complaint, it is clear that, PW.5- 57 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Sri.Arupendu Banerjee being then Branch Manager,

United Bank of India, Bengaluru Branch, has

recommended the proposal of accused No.2-Company by

violating the Bank norms, without verifying the

marketability of guaranteed properties and

creditworthiness of borrowers. Thus, it was a primary

responsibility of PW.5 to obtain due diligence report

before forwarding the loan proposal to Regional office,

but that was done by him. Further, at Paragraph No.16 of

complaint-Ex.P1, it has been stated that, 'in view of

above facts and circumstances, it is apparent that

Shri.D.Ravi Kumar of company availed term loan limit from

the Bank by furnishing incorrect information/concealment

of facts and with suspected involvement of recommending

and sanctioning authorities i.e. Sri. A. Banerjee, then

Assistant General Manager and Sri. Pranab Roy, then

General Manager, Southern Region, Chennai, respectively;

and they have also submitted/accepted highly inflated

valuation report, defrauded and cheated the Bank to the

tune of Rs.13.54 Crores'. Thus, PW.1, in his complaint,

has specifically taken the name of PW.5-Arupendu 58 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Banerjee along with the name of accused No.1-Pranab

Kumar Roy, suspecting his involvement in recommending

the loan proposal of accused No.2-Company.

Furthermore, during his cross examination, PW.30-

Sri.K.R.Baskaran has specifically admitted that, when

Arupendu Banerjee-PW.5 was head of the Branch, all the

procedural aspects in respect of alleged loan transaction

was done. However, the Investigating officer has

implicated only the accused No.1 in the case and said

Arupendu Banerjee-PW.5, then Branch Manager of

Bengaluru Branch, has been cited as prosecution

witness, for the best reasons known to him. 66. Further, as per another Internal Investigation

Report marked at Ex.P7 [Page No.3], the connecting

officials of the Bank in respect of irregularities committed

in the credit facility of accused No.2-Company are, 1)

Sri.Arupendu Banarjee-PW.5, according to Ex.P7-report,

loan proposal of accused No.2-company was forwarded

by him without processing at his end; 2)

Sri.T.S.Sudarshan-Senior Manager & Sri.K.R.Tamil

Selvan-Chief Manager, both as Initiating officers; 3) 59 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Sri.C.Balachandran, then AGM as recommending officer; 4) Sri.R.Annachamy & Sri.Seetharam, both Senior

Managers as members of Credit Committee; and 5)

Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy, then General Manager as

sanctioning authority. Thus, as per Ex.P7 report, above

mentioned officers are all have played active role in

respect of loan of accused No.2-Company; however,

except accused No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy, all the above

mentioned officers are cited as prosecution witnesses,

though they are directly responsible for the

irregularities as alleged in the Internal Investigation

Reports marked at Ex.P6 and Ex.P7. 67. So far as obtaining of Techno-Economic

Viability Report at the time of sanction is concerned, it is

the finding of Ex.P6-report that, TEV Report on the

project of accused No.2-Company was not undertaken by

the Appraisal Officials. However, it is not specifically

stated in the report that who are all said appraisal

officials who have not carried out the exercise of

obtaining TEV Report. Usually the Appraisal officers in

the Banks are the responsible officers who evaluate loan 60 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 proposals/applications to ensure the Bank's interest and

also evaluate borrower's creditworthiness and ability to

repay the loan. Obviously, in the case on hand, PW.3,

PW.5, PW.31, PW.32, PW.34 and PW.35 can be

considered as Appraisal Officers in respect of loan

proposal of accused No.2-Company; it is because as

PW.5-Sri.A.Banarjee, Branch Manager has forwarded the

loan proposal to Regional office; PW.31-Sri. K. R. Tamil

Selvan and PW.32-Sri. T. S. Sudarshan attached to

Regional Office, have initiated the proposal; PW.3-

Sri.C.Balachandran, then AGM has recommended the

loan proposal; and PW.34-Sri.Seetharaman and PW.35-

Sri.R.Annachamy both Senior Managers, are the

members of Credit Committee, have approved the

proposal; and thereafter, accused No.1 being the

sanctioning authority, has accorded his sanction for the

loan proposal of accused No.2-Company. Therefore, it is a

failure on the part of above said officers, if there are any

irregularities occurred in the credit facility of

accused No.2, as per Ex.P6 and P7. But fixing the 61 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 responsibility solely on the shoulder of accused No.1 for

all the alleged irregularities, is not proper and acceptable. 68. It is another important aspect which needs to

be considered is that, whether TEV report is necessary or

not, in respect of nature of loan sought by accused No.2-

Company. Admittedly, nature of loan sought by the

accused No.2-Company is not either for Industrial

Projects or for any infrastructural industry; but it is for

purchase of IT Software product from an overseas vendor.

As per admissions of PW.2 and PW.3, the credit facility

granted to accused No.2-Company is under Small and

Medium Enterprises Scheme. In his cross, PW.2 pleaded

his ignorance by stating that he is not fully aware

whether in SME loan, the Techno-Economic Viability

Report is required or not. It is significant to note here

that, PW.2, along with another officer, has investigated

the irregularities in respect of credit facility of accused

No.2-Company and submitted reports as per Ex.P6 and

P7. But without having the knowledge as to Techno-

Economic Viability Report is required or not in the nature

of loan granted to accused No.2-Company, PW.2 has 62 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 stated in his reports as per Ex.P6 and P7 that, 'the

Techno-Economic Viability Report has not been obtained at

the time of sanction'. Further, PW.3 in his chief

examination has specifically deposed that they have not

taken TEV Study Report because at that time, the lending

policy did not prescribe for such report. From this piece

of evidence of PW.3, it is very clear that, the lending

policy of the Bank, at that period of time, did not

prescribe for obtaining of TEV report and it is also clear

that, it is not the duty of accused No.1 to obtain the TEV

Report; rather, it is the duty of Initiating officers,

recommending officers and members of Credit committee.

Be that as it may, PW.32 has further admitted in his

cross examination that, TEV report was not compulsory

for software projects during that period [i.e. at the time of

sanction of loan to accused No.2-company]. 69. It is true that PW.30-Sri.K.R.Baskaran has

deposed in his examination-in-chief that, TEV Report is

necessary before sanctioning loan of more than Rs.10

Crores. But in his cross examination, he stated that, the

condition of obtaining a TEV report is in lending policy 63 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 but there is no specific document to show that TEV

report is required for software projects. However, none of

the prosecution witnesses including PW.30-

K.R.Baskaran, have deposed that it is the duty of

accused No.1 to obtain TEV Report. 70. It is important to note here that, though in

Ex.P3-Lending Policy of United Bank of India, a reference

can be found as to Techno-Economic Viability Report, but

it is with respect to 'Project Financing' and said 'Project

Financing' includes Long Term Infrastructure, Industrial

Projects and Public Services; but not necessarily for

finance to Information Technology and Software industry.

Further, as per Ex.P2 which is attested true copy of

Manual of Instructions Part 4 Volume-I; wherein Sub-

Paragraph No.7 of Paragraph No.4.11 speaks about want

of Technical feasibility, Economic Viability Report. But

this pertains to New Proposal; however, in the case on

hand, it is not shown that loan proposal of accused No.2

is a new proposal or not. Therefore, there is no specific

and cogent evidence adduced by the prosecution to show

that the Techno-Economic Viability Report is must for 64 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 even loan to Software Industries. Accordingly, the

allegation that accused No.1 has cheated the United

Bank of India and thereby committed misconduct by

conspiring and colluding with accused No.2 and 3 by not

obtaining the Techno-Economic Viability Report, is not

established. 71. So far as allegation as to Due diligence report

on the overseas vendor and his credibility was not

obtained from Dun & Bradstreet as required under

Bank's circular, is concerned; again it is not clearly

demonstrated by the prosecution that who had to obtain

due diligence report on overseas vendor. It is because, as

per complaint of PW.1 marked at Ex.P1, PW.5-Arupendu

Banerjee, then Assistant General Manager and Head of

Bengaluru Branch, has forwarded the loan proposal of

accused No.2-company recommending for sanction of

Term Loan of Rs.14 Crores and Cash Credit of 2 Crores

by violating the Bank Norms and without verifying the

marketability of the guaranteed properties and

creditworthiness of Borrower. Thus, from this averment

of Ex.P1, it is very clear that, PW.5 as a Branch Head had 65 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 to obtain due diligence report on overseas vendor and its

credibility and also regarding creditworthiness of

Borrower. As already stated above, PW.5 has not been

made as accused but he is shown as prosecution witness.

It is true that, PW.2 in his report marked at Ex.P6 as well

as in his oral testimony, has stated that no due diligence

report of overseas vendor is obtained from Dun &

Bradstreet and Export Credit Guarantee Corporation by

the Sanctioning Authority; however, the prosecution has

failed to substantiate his said piece of evidence by

producing cogent documentary evidence suggesting that

it is only the accused No.1 who had to obtain said Due

Diligence Report of overseas vendor, before sanctioning

the loan for accused No.2-Company. It is because, the

loan proposal of accused No.1 had been forwarded by the

Branch to the Regional Office and thereafter, it went

through the hands of Initiating (process officers) officers,

member/s of recommending committee and members of

Credit committee and finally, it was placed before

accused No.1, the Sanctioning Authority. 66 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 72. Moreover, during his cross examination done

by accused No.1, PW.2 has admitted that the proposal

[i.e. loan proposal of accused No.2-company] was as per

the lending policy prevailing as on that day. Further, he

admitted that, in Ex.P6 and P7, he has not mentioned

that subsequently TEV report has been obtained because

he was not having information about said fact. He also

admitted that while he was submitting the report, he was

not given copy of TEV report. This witness also stated

that, subsequently, he came to know that the information

as to new premises of accused No.2 company had come

to the knowledge of concerned Branch by the accused

No.2. Further, during his cross-examination, PW.2

admitted that, subsequently, during CBI investigation, he

came to know that, end use certificate had been obtained

by accused No.2 and the same was made available to the

Bank. This witness also admitted that in the report Ex.P6

and P7, they mentioned that loan was disbursed to

various vendors without the approval of Regional Office

and Head Office; however, admitted that subsequently

they noticed that during the investigation of CBI, such 67 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 approval was obtained. Thus, it is clearly goes that, the

internal investigation team has mechanically conducted

the investigation as to irregularities allegedly committed

by accused No.1 while sanctioning the loan to accused

No.2-Company, without examining the actual facts. 73. Thus, from the above evidence of prosecution,

it is clear that the prosecution has miserably failed to

establish its case against accused No.1 that he had

criminal conspiracy with accused No.3 and thereby

cheated United Bank of India by sanctioning credit

facility to the tune of Rs.16 Crores to accused No.2-

Company, illegally and against the rules and regulations

of the Bank and thereby caused loss to the Bank.

Allegation as to acceptance of Bribe by Accused No.1: 74. It is another serious allegation against

accused No.1 that, he has accepted Rs.7 Lakh as Bribe

from accused No.3 as a reward for sanctioning the loan to

accused No.2-Company. It is the very case of the

prosecution that the bribe amount of Rs.7 lakhs was paid

to accused No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy by accused No.3-

Sri.D.Ravi Kumar, through middlemen viz., PW.27- 68 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Sri.Gaurav Pradhan, PW.28-Sri.Debasis Das and PW.29-

Sri.Arup Kumar Bose in the mid November of 2009.

However, in this regard, there is no direct evidence

adduced by the prosecution to show that accused No.1

has demanded bribe from accused No.3 and accepted

Rs.7 Lakh. But the prosecution has relied upon the

statements of PW.27 to PW.29 recorded by the Magistrate

U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., in order to prove the acceptance of

Rs.7 Lakh as bribe or reward by accused No.3. 75. Now, let me appreciate the Sec.164

Statements of PW.27 to PW.29 and also their respective

oral evidence, in order to know how far said witnesses

have supported the prosecution in respect of acceptance

of Rs.7 Lakhs as bribe by the accused No.1. 76. The evidence of PW.27-Sri.Gaurav Pradhan

goes to show that, he knows accused No.1-Sri.Pranab

Kumar Roy and also knows CW.32-Arup Kumar Bose

personally. In the year 2009, CW.32-Arup Kumar Bose

was looking for an office premises for some one else and

as this witness had an office premises taken on rent,

hence wanted to sublet it. He agreed to give the said 69 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 premises on rent when asked by Arup Kumar Bose and

told him to pay advance amount of Rs.7 lakhs. During

the month of September or October, 2009, said Arup

Kumar Bose gave him Rs.7 lakhs as advance to take the

said premises on rent; however, in the month of October

or November, 2009, said Sri.Arup Kumar Bose informed

him that he does not need the office premises and asked

him to refund the advance amount to him; accordingly,

this witness has returned said amount of Rs.7 lakhs in

cash to Sri.Arup Kumar Bose by wrapping it in a paper.

The evidence of this witness also goes to show that, he

accompanied said Sri.Arup Kumar Bose near United

Bank of India, Dalhousie, Kolkata; where one person

came there and Sri.Arup Kumar Bose handed over the

amount of Rs.7 lakhs to said person in his presence. This

witness has identified his statement recorded U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., before Magistrate which is marked as Ex.P115. 77. However, in his cross-examination done by

accused No.1, PW.27 stated that CBI officials told him

that whatever he has stated before them, has to be signed

before the court and he does not remember whether oath 70 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 was administered by the Magistrate while recording his

statement. He further stated that, the statement marked

at Ex.P115 was not typed before him but the statement

was already there but they asked him to put his

signature and he does not know the contents of the

statement. During his cross examination done by

accused No.2 and 3, PW.27 has stated that he does not

know anything else except the advance amount of Rs.7

lakhs paid to him by Sri.Arup Kumar Bose for the

premises to be let out on rent. He admitted a suggestion

to the effect that, he has refunded the advance amount of

Rs.7 lakhs since the premises was not taken on rent. He

further stated that, except said transaction, he does not

know anything else. Thus, from the testimony of this

witness, nothing concrete was elicited by the prosecution

to prove the allegation of bribe. 78. Further, the evidence of PW.28-Sri.Debasis

Das, in his examination-in-chief, goes to show that,

accused No.1 is the father of one Suman Kumar Roy;

under whom, he was working during the year 2009. He

used to attend whatever work entrusted to him by 71 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy and his son Sri. Suman Kumar

Roy. This witness has further deposed that, he does not

remember about receiving any parcel from any person

near United Bank of India, Dalhousie, Kolkata at the

instance of accused No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy. As this

witness has not supported the prosecution case, this

witness has been cross-examined by Learned Public

Prosecutor by treating him as hostile. During his cross-

examination by the prosecution, this witness has

admitted that he went near United Bank of India,

Dalhousie, Kolkata as told by accused No.1-Sri.Pranab

Kumar Roy; but stated that, he has not attended any

work at the instance of Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy since he

has not told him to bring anything. Further, he denied a

suggestion that, as per the instructions of accused No.1-

Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy, he went near United Bank of

India, Dalhousie, Kolkata and collected a pocket wrapped

up by cello-tape said to be containing Rs.7 lakhs cash

and received it from a person and handed over to accused

No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy. Further, this witness has

denied another suggestion to the effect that accused 72 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy stated that he has given his

mobile number [means the mobile number of this

witness] to one person and that person will call him to

meet near United Bank of India Dalhousie, in turn, he

has to collect the amount given by him and to handover

the same to him [that is, to accused No.1]. This witness

further denied that said person called him and he went

near the United Bank of India and two persons came

there and one person handed over the cover containing

Rs.7 lakhs and he received it and thereafter, he handed

over it to accused No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy. The said

portion of the statement is marked by the prosecution as

per Ex.P116. Further, this witness admitted that he was

taken before the Magistrate court, where his statement

was recorded and he has put his signature on the said

statement. The said statement has been marked as

Ex.P117 upon its identification. 79. However, during his cross-examination done

by the accused No.1, PW.28 has stated that, his

statement was recorded in the court by making him to

stand in the witness box, he was asked by the Magistrate 73 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 and he has given answers to his questions and he told

before the Magistrate that he used to attend the work as

per the instructions of accused No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar

Roy. He further stated in his cross that, accused No.1-

Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy has never asked him to receive a

bundle containing cash of Rs.7 lakhs. This witness has

further stated in his cross-examination that the CBI

Police have asked him to tell before the Magistrate that

he has received parcel from one person near United Bank

of India and handed over to accused No.1-Sri.Pranab

Kumar Roy, if he says the above statement before the

court, he will left free; therefore, he has stated before the

Magistrate, accordingly. Further, this witness also stated

that, the CBI officer had threatened him that, he would

be put behind the bar if he does not state before the

Magistrate as stated above. He further stated that

Ex.P117 was already got ready and he was asked to put

his signature on the same and he does not know the

contents of Ex.P117. Thus, this witness has also

retracted from his Sec.164 statement in his oral evidence. 74 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 80. Further, the evidence of PW.29-Sri.Arup

Kumar Bose, in his examination-in-chief, goes to show

that, he knows accused No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy. His

firm name was M/s.Baba Satyanarayana Trading Co. He

has a current account in Vijaya Bank which was in

operation during the year 2009. One Sri. Ravi Kumar [i.e.

accused No.3] has credited Rs.2 lakhs at one time and

Rs.5 lakhs on another occasion to his said current

account through RTGS and Ravi Kumar told him to find

an office premises in Kolkata on rent. Therefore, he

contacted his friend Gaurav Pradhan since he had

premises and he was ready to give premises on rent with

advance of Rs.7 lakhs and accordingly, he gave him Rs.7

lakhs as advance for the said premises; but after 20 days,

said Ravi Kumar had called him over telephone and

asked to refund the said advance amount of Rs.7 lakhs

since they found another suitable premises and further

told to refund the said amount to a person to whom they

have given his account number and the said person will

come and meet him; accordingly, the said person called

him and told to come near the Head Office of United 75 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Bank of India, Dalhousie, Kolkata. Accordingly, himself

and Sri.Gaurav Pradhan together went near United Bank

of India, said person came there and collected the packet

containing Rs.7 lakhs from him and went away. He

further stated that accused No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy

has not requested him to find a premises on rent. 81. As above said witness has not supported the

prosecution case; therefore, the learned Sr. Public

Prosecutor has cross-examined this witness by treating

him as hostile. During his cross-examination by the

prosecution, this witness has stated that, he has not

dealt with any business with accused No.3-Sri.D.Ravi

Kumar. Further, he stated that, he does not know from

whom said Ravi Kumar got his telephone number and he

did not request Sri.Ravi Kumar to deposit the amount

into his account prior to negotiations in respect of

premises. Further, this witness has admitted in his cross

that, the CBI police took him to the court for recording

statement and his statement was recorded at Court and

his statement was taken in the court by the judge, but

CBI police have not recorded his statement in the Court. 76 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 His statement recorded before the Magistrate has been

marked as Ex.P118. This witness further stated that

Ex.P118 was not recorded in the court and he denied

that accused No.1-Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy told him over

telephone that he has given his bank account number to

one Sri.Ravi Kumar and said Sri.Ravi Kumar will remit

an amount to his account and further asked him to keep

the said amount with him. This witness has further

denied that, accordingly, Sri.Ravi Kumar remitted Rs.2

lakhs and subsequently, Rs.5 lakhs through RTGS to his

bank account. He further denied that, accused No.1-

Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy gave contact mobile phone

number of Sri.Ravi Kumar's person and asked him to

meet him near Head Office of United Bank of India,

Kokkata and to return the amount of Rs.7 lakhs. It is

further denied that, after handing over the amount of

Rs.7 lakhs to that person, he telephoned accused No.1-

Sri.Pranab Kumar Roy and told the said fact. Further,

this witness has been cross-examined by the accused

No.1. During his cross-examination, this witness has

stated that the CBI Officer has brought him to the court 77 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 for recording statement and he has not read the contents

of Ex.P118 before signing, but it was read over to him in

English and he did not follow. 82. Thus, on perusal of entire evidence of PW.27

to PW.29, there is no any piece of evidence which would

suggest that the amount of Rs.7 Lakh has been given to

accused No.1 through the account of PW.30-Arup Kumar

Bose, as a reward for sanctioning the loan to accused

No.2-Company. In fact, the very evidence of PW.27 to

PW.29 goes to show that, the alleged Rs.7 Lakh has been

transferred to the account of PW.29 as a rent advance for

purpose of office premises. Even the Sec.164 statements

of PW.27 to PW.29 did not disclose that said amount was

given to accused No.1 by the accused No.3 as bribe. 83. It is the contention of learned Public

Prosecutor that, PW.27, PW.28 and PW.29 have

specifically stated in their respective statements recorded

before the learned Magistrate U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C.,

regarding payment of Rs.5 Lakhs and Rs.2 Lakhs to the

account of M/s. Baba Sathynarayana & Co., on two

occasions through RTGS; in turn, said amount of Rs.7 78 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Lakhs was handed over to the wife of accused No.1. He

further contended that, receiving of Rs.7 Lakh by the

accused No.1 is most important 'fact in issue' and Sections 5 , 6 and 8 of Indian Evidence Act are fairly

apply to the case of prosecution. 84. It is his further contention that, though

PW.27, PW.28 and PW.29 have been retracted from their

respective statements recorded U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., but

their statements have to be appreciated in view of Sec.157 of Indian Evidence Act. As per Sec.157 of Indian

Evidence Act, a statement U/ Sec.164 Cr.P.C. could be

used for both corroboration and contradiction and it

could also be used to corroborate the testimonies of other

witnesses. The circumstances found in the evidence of

PW.27, PW.28 and PW.29 clearly goes to show that, the

bribe amount was received by the accused No.1 as a

reward for sanctioning the loan in favour of accused

No.2-Company. 85. Further, it is also contended by the learned

Public Prosecutor that, it is true that, in the case on

hand, PW.27 to PW.29 have been retracted from their 79 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 respective statements; however, the circumstances

suggest that said witnesses have been won over by the

accused No.1, therefore the Court has to examine the

circumstances in which the statement was recorded and

the reasons stated by the witnesses for retracting from

the statement. 86. It is true that statements recorded by the

Magistrate U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., stand on different

footage compared to statements recorded U/ Sec.161 and 162 of Cr.P.C., recorded by the police. However, the

relevancy, admissibility and reliability of statements

recorded U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C. are depending upon the

facts and circumstances of each case. It is settled law

that, a statement U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., could be used for

both corroboration and contradiction and also to

corroborate the testimonies of other witnesses. 87. It is true that PW.27 to PW.29 have given their

respective statements U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., before the

Magistrate. However, in their respective oral evidence,

they have denied material part of their respective Sec.164

statements and thereby, they retracted from their 80 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 statements. The reason for retraction of his statement by

PW.27 is that, the CBI official told him that whatever he

has stated before them, has to be signed before the

Court. Further, this witness has deposed his statement

marked at Ex.P115 was not typed before him but the

statement was already there and he does not know the

contents of his statement. Further, the reason for

retraction of his statement by PW.28 is that, the CBI

Police have asked him to tell before the Magistrate that

he has received parcel from one person near United Bank

of India and handed over to accused No.1-Sri.Pranab

Kumar Roy, if he says so before the court, then he will be

left free; therefore, he has stated before the Magistrate,

accordingly. Further, this witness also stated that, the

CBI officer had threatened him that, he would be put

behind the bar if he does not state before the Magistrate

as stated above. He further stated that Ex.P117 was

already got ready and he was asked to put his signature

on the same and he does not know the contents of it.

Further, though PW.29 has admitted during his cross

examination done by the prosecution that his statement 81 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 was recorded in the court; but, at the same time, he has

answered that the CBI police had brought typed

statement, looking to the name and his father's

name typed in the statement, the judge confirmed it,

when he was questioned by the prosecution as to 'where

did the court recorded his name and his father's name ?'.

Further, this witness has specifically stated that Ex.P118

[i.e. his statement U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C.] was not recorded

in the court. Further, PW.29 has specifically denied

material parts of his statement as per Ex.P119 and

Ex.P120. Thus, this way, PW.27 to PW.28 have retracted

from their statements recorded U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C. 88. It is important to note here that, in catena of

judgments, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, has time and

again held that, the statement recorded U/ Sec.164 of

Cr.P.C., is not considered as a substantive piece of

evidence on its own feet, but oral evidence of that

particular witness deposed before the court and

subjected to cross examination, then it can be a

substantive piece of evidence. 89. In the case of VIJAYA SINGH & ANR. VS. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND [2024 INSC 905], the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has held in Paragraph No.27 & 28 that, 27. The jurisprudence concerning a statement
 under Section 164 CrPC is fairly clear. Such a
 statement is not considered as a substantive piece of
 evidence, as substantive oral evidence is one which
 is deposed before the Court and is subjected to cross
 examination. However, Section 157 of Indian
 Evidence Act, 1872 makes it clear that a statement
 under Section 164 CrPC could be used for both
 corroboration and contradiction. It could be used to
 corroborate the testimonies of other witnesses. In R.
 Shaji v. State of Kerala , this Court discussed the
 two-fold objective of a statement under Section 164 CrPC as: The Court also recognized that the need for recording
 the statement of a witness under Section 164 CrPC 83 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 arises when the witness appears to be connected to
the accused and is prone to changing his version at
a later stage due to influence. The relevant para
reads thus: 28. Considering the conceptual requirement of
recording a statement before a Judicial Magistrate
during the course of investigation and the utility
thereof, as prescribed in Section 157 of Evidence Act,
it could be observed that a statement under Section
164, although not a substantive piece of evidence,
not only meets the test of relevancy but could also be
used for the purposes of contradiction and
corroboration. A statement recorded under Section
164 CrPC serves a special purpose in a criminal
investigation as a greater amount of credibility is
attached to it for being recorded by a Judicial
Magistrate and not by the Investigating Officer. A
statement under Section 164 CrPC is not subjected
to the constraints attached with a statement under Section 161 CrPC and the vigour of Section 162 CrPC
does not apply to a statement under Section 164 CrPC. Therefore, it must be considered on a better 84 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 footing. However, relevancy, admissibility and
 reliability are distinct concepts in the realm of the
 law of evidence. Thus, the weight to be attached to
 such a statement (reliability thereof) is to be
 determined by the Court on a case-to-case basis and
 the same would depend to some extent upon
 whether the witness has remained true to the
 statement or has resiled from it, but it would not be
 a conclusive factor. For, even if a witness has
 retracted from a statement, such retraction could be
 a result of manipulation and the Court has to
 examine the circumstances in which the statement
 was recorded, the reasons stated by the witness for
 retracting from the statement etc. Ultimately, what
 counts is whether the Court believes a statement to
 be true, and the ultimate test of reliability happens
 during the trial upon a calculated balancing of
 conflicting versions in light of the other evidence on
 record. 90. Further, in the case of T.Diwakara and

Others Vs. State of Karnataka reported in ILR 2006

KAR 4632, the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka has

held that,

 "The statement recorded under Section
 164 of Criminal Procedure Code does not
 have any better legal status than the one
 recorded under Section 161(3) of the Code. 85 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 At the most, if the deponent whose
 statement is recorded under Section 164 of
 the Code turns hostile, he/she could be
 prosecuted for perjury but on the strength
 of such statement no conviction can be
 placed". 91. As held in the above cited judgments, a

statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., although not a

substantive piece of evidence, not only meets the test of

relevancy but could also be used for the purposes of

contradiction and corroboration. However, considering

the evidence on record and facts and circumstances of

the case on hand, even there is no material evidence

brought out by the prosecution so as to contradict or

corroborate with the statements of PW.27 to PW.29

recorded under Sec.164 of Cr.P.C. Except PW.27 to

PW.29, none of the prosecution witnesses have deposed

regarding alleged bribe of Rs.7 Lakh. 92. Even PW.38-A.Inbazhagan, who is the

investigating officer in RC No.16(A)/2013 [i.e.

Spl.C.No.38/2015], has deposed that, during 86 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 investigation in connection with RC 16(A)/2013, after

scrutinizing the account statement of current account

No.0884050108584 belonging to M/s. Acropetal

Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru maintained with

United Bank of India, Contonment Branch, Bengaluru, it

was found that, on 09.10.2009 an amount of Rs.5 Lakhs

was transferred from said account to the account bearing

No.723200301000056 maintained at Vijaya Bank,

Burdwan Branch, West Bengal belonging to one

M/s.Baba Satyanarayana Co., [owned by PW.29] and he

also came to know that, on 10.07.2009 another amount

of Rs.2 Lakhs was transferred from current account

No.67042921027 belonging to M/s. Acropetal

Technologies Pvt Ltd., maintained with State Bank of

Travancore, Industrial Finance Branch, Bengaluru to the

account of M/s. Baba Sathynarayana Co., of PW.29. 93. Thus, even from the evidence of PW.38, it goes

to show that, the said amount of Rs.7 Lakh, as stated by

him as above, was transferred to the account of M/s.

Baba Sathynarayana Co., of PW.29-Sri.Arup Kumar Bose

from the current account No.67042921027 of M/s. 87 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Acropetal Technologies Pvt Ltd., which is another

company owned by accused No.3-D.Ravikumar. 94. It is significant to note here that, the

prosecution is not clear in accusing that whether alleged

bribe of Rs.7 Lakh is for the sanction of loan to accused

No.2-M/s. Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., or whether

it is for the sanction of loan to M/s.Acropetal

Technologies Pvt Ltd or for both. It is because, PW.38-

Sri.A.Inbazhagan [who conducted investigation in respect

of RC No.16(A)/2013 (Spl.C.No.38/2015)] has specifically

deposed that, 'during the investigation it was

revealed that accused No.1 has obtained quid pro

quo from accused No.3 for sanction of loan to M/s.

Acropetal Technologies Pvt. Ltd'. However, so far as

this case is concerned, prosecution version is that

accused No.1 has obtained Rs.7 Lakh as bribe from

accused No.3 for sanctioning loan to accused No.2-M/s.

Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt.Ltd. Thus, the above stated

piece of evidence of PW.38 goes against the very case of

prosecution so far as allegation of acceptance of bribe by 88 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 the accused No.1 for sanctioning loan to accused No.2-

Company. 95. It is further argued by the learned Public

Prosecutor that, though there is no direct evidence to

establish that accused No.1 has obtained the bribe of

Rs.7 Lakhs as reward for sanctioning of loan to accused

No.2-Company, but there is reliable circumstantial

evidence adduced by the prosecution to connect the

accused No.1 with acceptance of bribe. In this regard, the

learned Public Prosecutor has again relied upon the

statements of PW.27 to PW.29 recorded before Magistrate

U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C. Further, in support of his

contention, the learned Public Prosecutor has relied upon

a judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court passed in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharashtra ,

[ (1984) 4 SCC 116]. 96. That the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda vs State of Maharashtra ,

reported in (1984) 4 SCC 166, while dealing with

circumstantial evidence has held that, the onus was on

the prosecution to prove that the chain is complete and 89 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 the infirmity of lacuna in the prosecution cannot be

cured by a false defense of plea. The condition precedent

before conviction could be based on circumstantial

evidence must be fully established and they are; 1) The circumstances from which the
 conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be
 fully established. The circumstances concerned
 must or should and not may be established; 2) The facts so established should be
 consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt
 of the accused, that is to say, they should not
 be explainable on any other hypothesis except
 that the accused is guilty; 3) The circumstances should be of a conclusive
 nature and tendency; 4) They should exclude every possible
 hypothesis except the one to be proved; and 5) There must be a chain of evidence so
 complete as not to leave any reasonable
 ground for the conclusion consistent with the -
 innocence of the accused and must show that
 in all human probability the act must have
 been done by the accused. 97. Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gagan Kanojia and another Vs. State of Punjab [(2006)

13 Supreme Court cases 516], has laid down the

principle of law that when a prosecution case is solely

based on a circumstantial evidence how to appreciate the 90 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 evidence. In the said case at Paragraph No.9, it was held

that: 98. It is no doubt true that, a conviction can be

recorded solely on the basis of reliable circumstantial

evidence. However, as held in the above cited decisions of

Hon'ble Supreme Court, in a case based on a

circumstantial evidence, the prosecution must prove that

within all human probabilities, the act must have been

done by the accused. In the case on hand, except the

unreliable evidence of PW.27 to PW.28, there is no cogent

evidence to show that the amount of Rs.7 Lakh which

was referred in the evidence of PW.27 to PW.29 and

PW.38, was the bribe amount obtained by accused No.1

as quid pro quo, from accused No.3 for sanction of loan

for accused No.2-M/s. Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt Ltd.

When we apply the five principles laid down in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of 92 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Maharashtra to the facts of case on hand, it is very

difficult to accept that merely on relying the statements

of PW.27 to 29 recorded U/ Sec.164 of Cr.P.C., accused

No.1 can be convicted for the alleged charge of bribe. It is

because, the facts, circumstances and evidence relied

upon by the prosecution, in the case on hand, is not

sufficient enough to establish the guilt of the accused

No.1 in stating unequivocally that accused No.1 has

obtained Rs.7 Lakh as bribe. The prosecution has failed

in showing that the circumstances found in the

prosecution evidence should be of a conclusive nature

and tendency, in directing the accused No.1 is guilty of

receiving bribe amount of Rs.7 Lakh. Even there is no

chain of evidence which connect the accused No.1 in

accepting the bribe amount of Rs.7 Lakh as alleged by

the prosecution. On appreciating of entire of evidence of

prosecution and on examining the circumstances upon

which the prosecution has relied, it cannot be said that

the prosecution has shown that in all human probability,

the bribe amount of Rs.7 Lakh must have been received

by the accused No.1. Therefore, this court is of the 93 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 considered opinion that, the prosecution has miserably

failed in proving that accused no.1 has obtained Rs.7

Lakh as bribe or reward from accused No.3 for

sanctioning loan to accused No.2-Company, beyond

reasonable doubt. 99. It is the first and foremost burden on the

prosecution that, accused No.1, being a Public Servant,

has demanded or requested accused No.3 a pecuniary

advantage for sanctioning of loan to accused No.2-

Company and thereafter, he has obtained pecuniary

advantage of Rs.7 Lakhs as bribe by corrupt or illegal

means and by abusing his position as loan sanctioning

authority. In the case of A. Subair Vs. State of Kerala reported in 2009 Cr.L.J.3450, it is held that: 100. Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court while dealing

with provision under Sec.5(1)(d) of PC Act, 1947 [akin to Sec.13(1) (d) of PC Act 1988] in the case of S.P.Bhatnagar and another vs. State of

Maharashtra , reported in AIR 1979 SC 826, held as

under: 101. However, in the case on hand, as already

discussed above, the prosecution has failed in

establishing that accused No.1, being a public servant,

with dishonest intention, has conspired with accused

No.2 and 3 and sanctioned loan to accused No.2-

company by accepting inflated properties as collateral 95 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 security and not following banking procedure prevailed at

that time and also accepted Rs.7 Lakh as

reward/pecuniary advantage from accused No.3 for

sanction of loan to accused No.2-Company and caused

loss to United Bank of India and thereby committed

criminal misconduct punishable U/ Sec.13(1) (d) of

Prevention of Corruption Act. As already discussed at

aforesaid paragraphs, the very prosecution material

witnesses themselves have specifically deposed that,

there is no any irregularity committed by accused No.1 in

sanctioning the loan and the very evidence of

prosecution, both oral as well as documentary, show that

PW.5-Sri.A.Banarjee, Branch Manager has forwarded the

loan proposal of accused No.2-Company to Regional

office; PW.31-Sri. K. R. Tamil Selvan and PW.32-Sri. T. S.

Sudarshan attached to Regional Office, have initiated the

proposal; PW.3-Sri.C.Balachandran, then AGM has

recommended the loan proposal; and PW.34-

Sri.Seetharaman and PW.35-Sri.R.Annachamy both

Senior Managers, who are the members of Credit

Committee, have approved the proposal; and thereafter, 96 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 accused No.1 being the sanctioning authority, has

accorded his sanction for the loan proposal of accused

No.2-Company. Therefore, the prosecution has not

succeeded in proving the charges levelled against accused

No.1. The charge against accused No.2 and 3: 102. Now, coming to charge levelled against

accused No.2 and 3, it is alleged that, the accused No.3-

D.Ravikumar being the Director of accused

No.2-M/s.Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., had

criminally conspired with accused No.1, then General

Manager, SRO, Chennai and in pursuance of said

conspiracy, the accused No.2-Company duly represented

by accused No.3-D.Ravi Kumar, applied for a loan for the

purpose of purchasing a software product called

'MEDITS' from an overseas vendor by name M/s.Optech

Consulting Inc., Texas, USA, by inflating the value of

properties offered as collateral security and as a result,

accused No.1 has sanctioned credit facility of Rs.14

Crores as Term Loan and Rs.2 Crores as Working Capital

to the Accused No.2-M/s.Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. 97 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Ltd., by entering into illegal agreement with accused No.2

and 3; and thereby, accused No.2 and 3 have dishonestly

induced the United Bank of India to sanction Rs.16

Crores as loan for the purpose of procuring software

product 'MEDITS' from an overseas vendor, and after

sanction, they diverted said loan amount for the purpose

other than for which it was sanctioned and as a result,

the account of accused No.2-Company became NPA,

thereby they caused wrongful loss to United Bank of

India, Bengaluru Branch, Bengaluru to the tune of

Rs.13,53,39,706/-, and thereby cheated the Bank and

thereby accused No.2 and 3 have committed offences

punishable U/ Sec.120-B and 420 of Indian Penal Code. 103. Before proceeding to the evidence brought out

by the prosecution against accused No.2 and 3, at this

juncture, it is important to note here that, already this

court, in the aforesaid Paragraphs, has held that the

prosecution has failed to establish their case that

accused No.1 in conspiracy with accused No.2 and 3, has

sanctioned the loan to accused No.2-company. Rather,

this court has already come to the conclusion that the 98 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 loan to accused No.2-Company has been sanctioned by

accused No.1 only on the basis of recommendation from

recommending authority and approval from the Credit

committee at Regional Office level and the prosecution

has not produced cogent materials to show that, there is

any conspiracy, cheating and criminal misconduct on the

part of accused No.1 in sanctioning loan illegally in

favour of accused No.2-Company. Therefore, when

already this court has formed an opinion that there is no

material to prove the theory of conspiracy against

accused No.1, then it is the same opinion even for

accused No.2 and 3 also. It is because, it is the very case

of prosecution that, the accused No.2 and 3 have

conspired with accused No.1 and got succeeded in

sanctioning loan from accused No.1 by submitting

inflated properties. However, the material evidence on

record speaks contrary. The Bank Officers, who are

examined as material witnesses for the prosecution case,

have unequivocally deposed in their respective evidence

that, the loan proposal of accused No.2-Company was in

conformity with the lending policy for that period; and 99 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 loan has been properly processed, recommended,

approved and finally, sanctioned by the accused No.1.

Therefore, this court is of the opinion that, even the

prosecution has failed to brought out the cogent and

convincing evidence to prove the allegation of conspiracy

against accused No.2 and 3. 104. In order to attribute criminal conspiracy

against accused No.1 to 3, the prosecution has to prove

that they were having mens rea, knowledge about

indulgence in doing an illegal act or a legal act by illegal

means with each other. A plain reading of provision under

offence of criminal conspiracy, makes it very clear that,

meeting of minds of two or more persons for doing or

causing to be done an illegal act or an act by illegal

means is sine qua non for the offence of criminal

conspiracy as held in the case of Rajiv Kumar Vs. State

of U.P. [(2017) 8 SCC 791]. 105. Having held that prosecution has failed in

proving the charge U/ Section 120-B of IPC, even against

accused No.2 and 3 also; now, let me examine the

prosecution evidence in order to know whether the 100 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 accused No.2 and 3 have cheated the United Bank of

India, Bengaluru Branch by submitting inflated

properties as collateral security and by concealing the

true facts of properties offered as collateral security and

got sanctioned the loan of Rs.16 Crores from accused

No.2-Company; and thereafter, failed to repay the loan

amount and due to which, the account became NPA and

thereby, the accused No.2 and 3 have committed the

offence punishable U/ Sec.420 of IPC. 106. At this juncture, it is apt to reproduce here

the relevant provision of Sec.415 and Sec.420 of IPC, for

better understanding. Section 415 of IPC, provides the

definition part of cheating, as under: Explanation: - A dishonest concealment of
 facts is a deception within the meaning of this
 section. Further, Section 420 of IPC provides for punishment for

cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property,

which reads as under: Thus, the necessary ingredients to attract the offence

U/ Sec.420 IPC are as under: 107. Therefore, it is the heavy burden on the

prosecution to prove that, accused No.2 and 3 had mens

rea or meeting of minds with accused No.1 with

dishonest intention, have cheated the United Bank of

India to part with loan of Rs.16 Crores for accused No.2-

Company for procuring software product from

M/s.Optech Consulting Inc., Texas, USA, by providing

inflated properties as collateral security and after

sanction of loan, accused No.2-Company has diverted the

said loan amount for other purpose. Further, even after

restructuring of the loan account, the accused No.3-

D.Ravikumar had willfully defaulted repayment schedule

and the account became NPA on 25.10.2012 with

outstanding balance with interest of Rs.13,53,39,706/-

as on 30.09.2012. Thus, the accused No.3-D.Ravi Kumar,

knowing fully well about the fact that the valuation of two

properties provided as collateral security is over-valued

submitted false information by suppressing the real facts; 103 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 and also colluded with accused No.1-Pranab Kumar Roy

in getting the loan sanctioned for his company by name

M/s.Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru. 108. At this stage, it is necessary to examine

whether accused No.2-Company was having valid and

marketable title in respect of land measuring 36 Guntas

in Sy.No.110 of Doddathoguru Village, Begur Hobli and

land measuring 1 acre in Sy.No.95 Anjanapura Village,

Bengaluru South Taluk to create equitable mortgage in

favour of United Bank of India, Bengaluru Branch for the

purpose of borrowing loan in favour of accused No.1-

Company or not. Further, it is also important to examine

whether there was a suppression of material facts with

regard to properties submitted as collateral security and

whether there was a criminal conspiracy or mala-fide

intention on the part of accused No.3 while borrowing

huge sum of loan for accused No.2-Company, by

submitting inflated properties as alleged by the

prosecution. 109. In this regard, the prosecution has relied

upon the evidence of PW.2. As per evidence of PW.2- 104 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Sri.Divakar Bhattacharjee, who conducted the internal

investigation into the irregularities in the account of M/s.

Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., the Loan Amount of

Rs.16 Crores [Term loan of Rs.14 crores and Cash Credit

Limit of Rs.2 Crores] was sanctioned to accused No.2-

Company; the loan was procured on the primary security

of the software package proposed to be procured with the

help of loan and it was also additionally secured by way

of equitable mortgage of initially one property stated to be

valued at Rs.16.82 crores and subsequently, the terms of

sanction was modified for the substitution of another

property valued at Rs.9.80 crores and pledgement of term

deposit of Rs.6.30 crores and personal guarantee of

accused No.3/D.Ravikumar, who is the Director of

accused No.2-Company. Further, as per evidence of

PW.2, the property situated at Doddathaguru was

purchased at a price of Rs.50 lakhs during December-

2009, although the stamp duty was paid as per the

guideline value amounting to Rs.2 crores, but the same

property was valued at Rs.9.80 crores; however during

investigation, he found that the property was overvalued 105 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 and subsequent fresh valuation of the property was also

revealed the value to much less than what was valued in

the year-2009. During his investigation, he further found

that the properties were over valued in order to show the

loan to be 100% covered by additional security. 110. However, the evidence of PW.11-Sri. M.

Mohamed Ibrahim, who was a Penal Advocate for United

Bank of India from 2002 to 2011, shows that as per

instruction of Chief Manager, United Bank of India,

Bengaluru Branch, he gave legal opinion to the Bank on

22.12.2009 as per Ex.P4(x) in respect of Sy.No.110 [New

No.2385/100/1] of Doddathoguru Beguru, Hobli and

another legal opinion in respect of property at Sy.No.95 of

Anjanapura Village, as per Ex.P56 dated:25.03.2010,

based on the documents of said properties. As per

Ex.P4(x), he certified that, accused No.2-Company has a

clear, valid and marketable title over property in

Sy.No.110 and company is competent to create the

mortgage. Further, as per Ex.P5(J), which is another legal

opinion dated:22.12.2009 given by one Sri. G.N.Maiya

Advocate in respect of property in Sy.No.110 of 106 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Doddathogur village; wherein he certified that,

'M/s.Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd is the absolute

owner of converted land to the extent of 36 guntas in

Sy.No.110 situated at Doddathogur village, Begur Hobli,

Bangalore and they are competent to sell, alienate,

mortgage etc., as the said property is their self acquired

property and it is marketable'. Thus, it is very clear that

there was no any suppression of material facts with

regard to properties submitted as collateral security and

there is valid and marketable title in respect of land

measuring 36 Guntas in Sy.No.110 of Doddathoguru

Village, Begur Hobli and land measuring 1 acre in

Sy.No.95 Anjanapura Village, to create equitable

mortgage in favour of United Bank of India. 111. Further, in order to prove that, the accused

No.3-D.Ravikumar has submitted inflated properties as

collateral security for obtaining loan for accused No.2-

Company with dishonest intention, the prosecution has

examined PW.15-Sri.V.S.Shanbhag. As per evidence of

PW.15-Sri.V.S.Shanbhag, a Chartered Engineer, on the

request of accused No.2-Company, he has valued the 107 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 property situated at Sy.No.110 of Doddathoguru Village

and gave his report as per Ex.P44. As per Ex.P44, he

valued said property at Rs.9,80,10,000/-. Further, on the

request of accused No.2-Company, this witness has also

valued another property situated at Sy.No.95 of

Anjanapura Village and gave his report as per Ex.P47. As

per Ex.P44, he valued said property at Rs.7,84,08,000/-. 112. Further, PW.36-Sri.M.Sreekrishna, who was

one of the penal valuers of United Bank of India, has

valued the property of accused No.2-Company situated at

Sy.No.110 of Doddathoguru Village and gave report as

per Ex.P45. As per his report-Ex.P45, the property is

measuring 36 Guntas which is equal to 39,204 Sq.Ft.,

and he has valued said property at Rs.2500/- per Sq.Ft.,

amounting to Rs.980 lakhs [Rs.9,80,00,000/-]. He also

valued the property bearing Sy.No.95 Anjanapura Village,

Bengaluru South Taluk and submitted his report as per

Ex.P48. As per Ex.P48, said property has an area of 1

acre, which is equal to 43,560 Sq.Ft., and he valued said

property at Rs.784 lakhs [Rs.7,84,00,000/-]. This witness

has stated that, he did not get collected the guidance 108 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 value from the Sub-Registrar in this case before valuing

the above said properties. 113. It is relevant note here that, the valuation

reports of PW.15 and PW.36 submitted as per Ex.P44 &

P47 and Ex.P45 & P48 respectively, conducted in respect

of properties situated at Sy.No.110 of Doddathoguru

Village and Sy.No.95 Anjanapura Village, have been

accepted by the Bank and the same have been forwarded

along with loan proposal to Regional Office, Chennai. It is

to be noted that, both PW.15 and PW.36, who are

approved valuers, have valued above said two properties

more or less, at similar value. 114. It is significant to note here that, when the

account of accused No.2-Company became NPA due to

non-payment of loan, the Bank, at the time of auction of

properties of accused No.2, has conducted valuation of

properties submitted as collateral security, through the

Bank Paneled Valuer PW.7-Sri.K.S.Venkata Krishnan. His

evidence goes to show that, as per request of Branch

Manager, United Bank of India, this witness has

conducted inspection of property at Sy.No.110 of 109 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Doddathaguru Village and submitted his valuation report

as per Ex.P46. As per Ex.P46, the property is measuring

39,204 Sq.Ft and he has valued said property at

Rs.850/- per Sq.Ft., which totally comes to

Rs.3,33,23,400/-. This witness has further conducted

inspection on 14.07.2012 at another property at Sy.No.95

of Anjanapura Village and submitted his report as per

Ex.P49. As per Ex.P49, the property is measuring 43,560

Sq.Ft and he has valued said property at Rs.850/- Sq.Ft.,

which totally comes to Rs.3,70,26,000/-. 115. Further, the Bank has also conducted

valuation of said properties again through PW.21-

L.S.Narayanan, a Chartered Engineer; whose evidence

goes to show that, he is on the Panel of United Bank of

India for valuation of property. As per instruction of

Bank, he valued property situated at Sy.No.95 of

Anjanapura Village and gave his report as per Ex.P39. As

per Ex.P44, he valued said property at Rs.5,98,40,000/-.

Further, this witness has also valued another property

situated at Sy.No.110 of Doddathoguru Village and gave

his report as per Ex.P40. As per Ex.P40, he valued said 110 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 property at Rs.4,64,55,250/-. However, it is not deposed

by PW.21 in his evidence that when he conducted the

valuation of above said properties. But, it appears from

his reports at Ex.P39 and P40 that, he has conducted the

valuation in the year 2014. 116. Further, the prosecution has examined PW.9,

PW.23 and PW.6, in order to show that accused No.2 and

3 have managed to get overvaluation for their properties

submitted as collateral security, though said properties

are having lesser value in reality. That PW.9-

Sri.M.K.Shantamurthy, is the Senior Sub-Registrar

deposed about registered Sale Deed dated:24.03.2010

executed in favour of accused No.2-Company by PW.18-

Smt.G.Jayamuni Rao pertaining to land bearing Sy.No.95

measuring 1 acre situated at Anjanapura, Uttarahalli

Hobli, Bengaluru which is marked Ex.P60. As per

Ex.P60, the consideration amount shown in the Sale

Deed is Rs.60 lakhs and market value of said property is

shown as Rs.1,20,00,000/-. 117. Further, PW.23-Smt.H.B.Harini, a Senior

Sub-registrar deposed that, who deposed that as per EC 111 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 dated 02.12.2009, one Sri. B.M.Srinivas Rao S/o. Late.

Mudda Reddy had sold Sy.No.110 of Doddathoguru

Village for consideration of Rs.6,18,75,000/- in favour of

M/s. Kinfotech Pvt. Ltd., as per entry marked at

Ex.P95(a). This witness has identified registered Sale

Deeds as per Ex.P95(b) and (c). 118. Further, PW.6-B.Gururaghavendra, Senior

Sub-Registrar, deposed about Ex.P56-registered Sale

Deed dated:04.12.2009 executed by M/s. Kinfotech Pvt.

Ltd., in favour of M/s. Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd.

i.e. accused No.2. As per Ex.P56, the consideration

amount shown is Rs.50 lakhs and the market value is

shown as Rs.2,35,22,400/- for the purpose of

registration. 119. It is all true that, as per evidence of PW.9,

PW.23 and PW.6, the land in Sy.No.95 of Anjanapura

Village was purchased for mere Rs.60 Lakh as per Ex.P60

and land in Sy.No.110 of Doddathogur village was

purchased for mere Rs.50 Lakh as per Ex.P50; but it is not

shown by the prosecution that accused No.3 by colluding

with PW.15 and PW.36, has got overvalued his above said 112 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 two properties nor PW.15 and PW.36 have deposed that

they have overvalued the properties as per whims and

wishes of accused No.3; rather, PW.15 and PW.36 have

stated that based on relevant records and market value

and guidance value, they accordingly valued the

properties. 120. It is pertinent to here that, PW.1 in his cross

examination has admitted that, the bank has obtained

legal opinion from Panel Advocate regarding title of

property. It is also admitted that, at the time of sanction,

a fixed deposit of Rs.6.31 Crores was taken as an

additional security which replaced by another landed

property. Further, it is also admitted that, the Bank has

also collected the personal guarantee of Rs.14.77 Crores.

It is also admitted that, apart from above securities, there

was hypothecation of software package and other

movable assets. Thus, it is clear from the evidence of

PW.1 that the loan was sufficiently secured. 121. Further, in his cross examination, PW.3 has

specifically admitted that himself and PW.30-

Sri.Baskaran Chief Manager, Bengaluru Branch together 113 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 made inspection of the Mortgaged Property and they were

satisfied on the basis of valuation Report. The valuation

of properties was done by Sri.M.Srikrishna who was on

Panel of United Bank of India and he was a refuted valuer

of the Bank and his services were satisfactory to the

Branch, according to PW.3. 122. Further, in his chief evidence, PW.5 has

deposed that, an officer from Regional Office and himself,

have jointly inspected the Unit and the property offered

for mortgage and both submitted joint report as per

Ex.P5(e). But, there is no negative finding in the Ex.P5(e)-

report regarding the properties offered as Mortgage.

Further, PW.5 has admitted that, the inspection report of

Sri.K.V.Murali, the Chief Manager, was satisfactory. This

witness has further admitted that during their joint

inspection they found everything in order. 123. As already stated above, in order to attract

offence U/ Sec.420 of IPC, the dishonest intention must

be established at the very beginning of loan transaction.

There is no case made out by the prosecution in order to

show that, there was dishonest inducement on the part 114 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 of accused No.2 and 3 to deceive the bank to sanction the

loan to accused No.2-Company. It is well founded

principles of law that, the intention to cheat must have

existed at the very inception of loan agreement. 124. It is on record that, the loan amount has

been credited directly to the account of overseas vendor

M/s.Optech Consultancy Inc., in respect of Software

product. It is the version of prosecution that, the loan

granted was diverted for other purpose. But there is no

material produced by the prosecution to show that,

accused No.2-Company has diverted the loan amount to

any other purpose. None of the prosecution witnesses

including investigating officer, has deposed that there is

diversion of funds by the accused No.2-Company after

disbursement of loan amount by the Bank. Even there is

no any documentary evidence, in that regard. The

evidence of prosecution itself discloses that loan amount

was released to overseas vendor. So far as, inflated

properties are concerned, the same are accepted by the

Bank. The Valuers who have valued the properties are on

the Panel of United Bank of India. Further, there is no 115 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 dispute as to title over the properties given as collateral

security. Such being the case, there is no material at all

to suggests that accused No.2 and 3 have cheated the

Bank. 125. It is the primary burden on the prosecution to

prove that accused No.2 and 3, in conspiracy with

accused No.1, have obtained the loan by submitting

inflated properties and by concealing true facts regarding

the properties. However, in this case, it is already held

that, there is no materials to show that accused No.1 had

conspiracy with accused No.2 and 3 in granting the loan.

Further, it is the burden on the prosecution to prove that,

accused No.2-Company has diverted the funds for other

purpose and thereby cheated the Bank and caused loss

to the Bank. Further, there is no material produced by

the prosecution that the accused No.2-company has not

procured software product but used funds of loan for

other purpose. Further, there is no evidence to suggest

that whether I.O. had been to Texas, USA to collect

materials to whether loan amount was actually received

by M/s.Optech Consultancy Inc., for supply of software 116 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 product namely 'MEDITS'. It is most important to note

here that, when the loan became NPA and properties

were subjected for auction, then only the Bank has again

valued the properties given as collateral security. But

before forwarding the loan proposal or during the process

of loan proposal or even before disbursing the loan

amount, the Bank has not taken said exercise of valuing

the properties from its reliable valuers, as done after loan

became NPA. 126. It is not the case of prosecution that, the

accused No.2 and 3 have submitted fake or fabricated

documents while obtaining the loan from the Bank. As

per Ex.P5(d), Sri.K.V.Murali Chief Manager, United Bank

of India, Bengaluru Branch has conducted physical

inspection to the Unit of accused No.2-Company on

10.09.2010 and in his report, he has recommended for

the loan. As per Inspection Report-Ex.P5(e) submitted by

PW.5 and PW.31, the inspection was conducted on

03.10.2009 and in the said report, it has been opined

that, companies operations, management team and

collateral security are satisfactory and no adverse 117 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 features found. Further, as per Ex.5(g)-Inspection Report

submitted by PW.3 and PW.30, nothing adverse

observation made. Thus being the case, the accused No.2

and 3 have submitted inflated properties as collateral

security with fraudulent intent while obtaining loan and

thereby cheated the Bank is not proved by the

prosecution with cogent evidence. 127. It is important to note here that, the

prosecution has failed to prove the core element of

dishonest intention or a clear plan to defraud the bank.

That siphoning off funds of loan for purposes other than

for which the loan was sanctioned is strong evidence of a

planned fraud; however, in the case on hand, the

prosecution has failed to demonstrate that accused No.2-

Company has diverted loan funds for other purpose. Mere

inability to repay the loan is not sufficient enough to

prove fraud. A crucial aspect in Bank fraud cases which

has to be established by the prosecution in order prove

the charge U/ Sec.420 of IPC beyond reasonable doubt, is

that the accused had the mens rea or guilty mind or

dishonest intention. That mere submission of inflated 118 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 property [according to prosecution version] as collateral

security is not sufficient to record conviction without the

proof of intention on the part of accused No.2 and 3 to

defraud the Bank. 128. It is well established that, in order to convict a

person U/ Sec.420 of IPC, it has to be brought on record

by way of positive evidence on record that there was

dishonest intention since inception. In the case on hand,

the failure on part of prosecution to prove the key

indicator of fraudulent intention and diversion of funds

by the accused No.2, has significantly weakened its case.

The fact that properties were overvalued has to be

demonstrably linked to dishonest intention or fraudulent

intent of accused No.2 at the time of loan was sanctioned;

however, the Bank's own Panel valuer valued the

properties so and if the Bank has accepted the same,

then it cannot be said that the accused No.2 and 3 have

defrauded the Bank by submitting inflated properties as

collateral security. The burden is upon the prosecution to

prove the guilt of accused beyond reasonable doubt but

in the case on hand, the evidence adduced by the 119 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 prosecution including overvaluation of properties is

insufficient to establish a clear, pre-meditated plan on

the part of accused No.2 and 3 to defraud the Bank. The

facts, circumstances and over all evidence of the present

case suggest that the case of accused No.2 and 3 is mere

of loan default or breach of contract rather it is not a

clear cut case of criminal fraud; it is because the

ingredients of cheating have not been proved by the

prosecution against accused No.2 and 3, with cogent and

convincing evidence. 129. In the case of Sujatha Aggarwal Vs. State of

Kerala [Crl.Misc.No.4078/2019], the Hon'ble High

Court of Kerala has held that,

 "It is well settled that the mere failure to
 perform a promise on the part of one of the
 parties to an agreement will not give rise to the
 offence of cheating as envisaged under Sections 415 & 420 IPC in the absence of
 materials to show that at the time of making
 the promise the accused had the fraudulent
 and dishonest intention to deceive the
 complainant or to induce him to do something
 which he would not otherwise do, and that
 such culpable intention right at the time of 120 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 entering into an agreement cannot be presumed
 merely from his failure to keep the promise
 subsequently. So also, the mere mention of
 words 'defraud' and 'cheat' in the complaint is
 not sufficient to infer that the accused had
 dishonest intention right from the very
 beginning," 130. Further, in the case of V.P. Shrivastava Vs.

Indian Explosives Ltd. , reported in [(2010) 10 SCC

361], the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held at Paragraphs

No.22, 24 and 25 as under; 25. It is well settled that in order to
 constitute an offence of cheating, it must be
 shown that the accused had fraudulent or
 dishonest intention at the time of making the
 representation or promise and such a culpable
 intention right at the time of entering into an
 agreement cannot be presumed merely from his
 failure to keep the promise subsequently". 131. Further, in the the case of Satishchandra

Ratanlal Shah Vs. State of Gujarat [Criminal Appeal

No.09 of 2019], the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held in

Paragraphs No.14 and 15 as under: 132. Furthermore, in the case of Deepak Gaba

and Others Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another ,

reported in (2023) 3 Supreme Court Cases 423, the 123 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Paragraph No.18, has held

that,

 "18. In order to apply Section 420 IPC,
 namely, cheating and dishonestly inducing
 delivery of property, the ingredients of Section
 415 IPC have to be satisfied. To constitute an
 offence of cheating under Section 415 IPC, a
 person should be induced, either fraudulently
 or dishonestly, to deliver any property to any
 person, or consent that any person shall retain
 any property. The second class of acts set forth
 in the section is the intentional inducement of
 doing or omitting to do anything which the
 person deceived would not do or omit to do, if
 she were not so deceived. Thus, the sine qua
 non of Section 415 IPC is "fraudulence",
 "dishonesty", or "intentional inducement", and
 the absence of these elements would debase the
 offence of cheating." 133. Thus, the principles laid down in the above

mentioned decisions of Hon'ble Apex Court and High

Court, make it clear that, in order to prove the offence of

cheating against a person, there must be a fraudulent

intent, dishonesty and intentional inducement on the

part of said person. In the case on hand, there is no proof 124 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 of any inducement by accused No.2 and 3 so as to part

with the loan by the Bank in favour of accused No.2-

company, as on proper process, recommendation and

approval, the loan has been sanctioned by accused No.1.

There is no evidence to prove the fraudulent intent on the

part of accused No.2-Company and accused No.3 to

cheat the United Bank of India by submitting fake or

fabricated documents as the valuation of properties of

accused No.2-Company were done by the approved

valuers of the Bank and the same were accepted by the

Bank. Therefore, this court could come to conclusion

that, the prosecution have miserably failed to establish

offence of cheating against accused No.2 and 3. Thus,

this court is of the considered view that, the prosecution

has not proved the charges leveled against accused No.1

to 3, beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, I answered

the Points No.1 to 3 in the Negative. 134. Point No.4: In the light of above discussion, I

proceed to pass following: Ex.P4(e-a) Signature of PW.31
Ex.P4(e-b) Signature of PW.32
Ex.P4(e-c) Signature of PW.34
Ex.P4(e-d) Signature of Sri.Annachamy
Ex.P4(f) Sanction letter dtd.23.10.2009 at pg.No.431.
Ex.P4(g) Signature of accused No.1 in Ex.P.4(d)
Ex.P4(h) Letter dt.08.11.2010 addressed to G.M.
 United Bank of India Region, Chennai at page
 No.454. Ex.P4(i) Signature of accused No.1 in Ex.P.4(h)
Ex.P4(j) Signature of PW.3 in Ex.P.4(b)
Ex.P4(k) Signature of Chief Manager in Ex.P.4(h)
Ex.P4(l) Opinion of Panel advocate Mohd.Ibrahim
 dated 07.01.2009 page No.452-451
Ex.P4(m) Letter dated 23.12.2009 of United Bank of
 India Bengaluru Branch to G.M.SRO,
 Chennai with enclosures.(pg.447 and 446)
Ex.P4(n) Letter dated 29.12.2009 of G.M. R.O. to Chief
 Manager Bengaluru Branch with
 enclosures(page 450 to 448)
Ex.P4(n-a) Signature of PW.34. Ex.P4(n-b) Signature of Annachamy
Ex.P4(n-c) Signature of L.Anbalagan
Ex.P4(o) Signature of A.1 in Ex.P.4(n)
Ex.P4(p) Proceedings dt 25.03.2010 of United Bank of
 India, SRO Chennai in respect of proposal for
 modifications in the terms and conditions.
Ex.P4(q) Letter dtd.23.10.2010 of AGM H.O. United
 Bank of India to DGM, SRO regarding review
 of account (page 488) 129 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Ex.P4(r) Letter dated 08.01.2010 of Chief Manager,
 United Bank of India Bengaluru Branch to
 G.M.SRO, Chennai (page No.487)
Ex.P4(s) Letter dated 07.01.2009 of Mohd. Ibrahim,
 Advocate to Chief Manager, UBI, Bengaluru
 Branch (page 486 to 485)
Ex.P4(t) Letter dtd.17.02.2012 from accused No.2 to
 the AGM, UBI, Blr Br (page Nos.563 to 559)
Ex.P4(u) Letter dtd.22.12.2012 of Chief Manager,
 United Bank of India Bengaluru Branch to
 DGM and CR UP, RO, Blr. (page No.564)
Ex.P4(v) Notice U/Sec. 13(2) r/w. 13(1) of SARFAESI
 Act (9 sheets) (page 589 to 581)
Ex.P4(x) Opinion dated 22.12.2009 of Mohd. Ibrahim,
 Panel Advocate (Page Nos.440 to 435)
Ex.P4(y) Copy of Valuation Report dt.17.09.2009 dated
 S.S.Industrial Consultants (2 sheets) (page
 Nos.370-369)
Ex.P4(z) Copy of Valuation Report dt.09.10.2009 of
 M.Srikrishna (page Nos.385 to 377)
Ex.P5 One file captioned as M/s. Binary Spectrum
 Softech Pvt. Ltd., (Vol.I 458 sheets)
Ex.P5(a) Current A/c opening form dt.23.12.2009 of
 A.2 with United Bank of India Bengaluru
 Branch with enclosures. Ex.P5(b) Project Idea note pertaining to A.2 prepared
 by Peerless Securities (54 sheets)
Ex.P5(c) Request letter dt.01.09.2009 of M/s. Binary
 Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., to AGM, UBI for
 term loan of 14 crores and working capital of
 2 Crores (1) sheets
Ex.P5(d) United Bank of India, pre-sanction Inspection
 Report dt.10.09.2009 submitted by
 K.R.Murali (1 sheet)
Ex.P5(e) Inspection Report dated 03.10.2009
 submitted by A.Banerjee and K.R.Tamil 130 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Selvam (2 sheets)
Ex.P5(f) Letter dt.18.10.2009 of A.2 to the AGM, UBI
 regarding personal guarantees and
 enclosures. Ex.P5(g) Inspection Report dt.23.12.2009 submitted
 by C.Balachandran and K.R.Bhaskaran (2
 sheets)
Ex.P5(h) Letter dt.22.12.2009 of M/s. Binary
 Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., for replacement
 of security (1sheet)
Ex.P5(i) Letter dt.29.12.2009 from G.M. SRO,
 Chennai to the Chief Manager, Bengaluru
 Branch regarding proposal for Modification in
 the terms and conditions (3 sheets)
Ex.P5(j) Legal opinion dt.22.02.2009 of G.N.Maiya
 Advocate (3 sheets)
Ex.P5(k) Signature of PW.5 in Ex.P.5(c)
Ex.P5(l) Sanction Communication Letter
 dt.24.10.2009 of AGM, UBI to A.2 company (1
 sheet)
Ex.P5(m) Annexure IX recommended terms of sanction
 enclosed to Ex.P.5(l)
Ex.P5(n) Letter dt.15.10.2009 of Sri.K.Prasanna
 Kumar (who conducted verification) (1 sheet)
Ex.P(o) Search Report and enclosures produced by
 Sri.K.Prasanna Kumar (1sheet)
Ex.P5(p) Letter dt.06.10.2009 of G.M. RO Chennai
 seeking some documents/ Informations from
 United Bank of India, Bengaluru Branch.
Ex.P5(q) Letter dt 11.01.2009 of AGM, UBI, Bengaluru
 to GM RO seeking some clarifications and
 guidance (1 sheet)
Ex.P6 Original office note No.290 dt.11/24.12.2012
 containing internal investigation report. Ex.P6(a) Signature of PW.2 131 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Ex.P6(b) Signature of B.Krishna Mohan
Ex.P7 Original Office Note No.127 dt.25.06.2013
 containing internal investigation report.
Ex.P7(a) Signature of PW.2
Ex.P7(b) Signature of B.Krishna Mohan
Ex.P8 Receipt Memo dt.5.3.2014
Ex.P8(a) Signature of VVV.Sathyanarayana
Ex.P9 Receipt Memo dt.7.5.2014 (1 sheet)
Ex.P9(a) Signature of VVV.Sathyanarayana
Ex.P10 Letter dt.7.5.2014 of DGM and CRM, UBI to
 PI, CBI/ACB, blr (8 sheets)
Ex.P11 Original term loan agreement dt.30.12.2009
 between UBI and M/s. Binary Spectrum
 Softech Pvt. Ltd.,
Ex.P12 Original Demand Promissory Note
 dt.30.12.2009 for 14 crore (1sheet)
Ex.P13 Original registered memorandum of deposit of
 title deeds dt 30.12.2009 (6 sheets)
Ex.P14 Original Letter of guarantee dt. 30122009
 executed by A.3 (9 sheets.)
Ex.P15 Original Hypothecation Agreement
 dt.30.12.2009 executed by A.2 (14 sheets)
Ex.P16 Original letter of Lein dt.30.09.2009 executed
 by A.2 (4 sheets)
Ex.P17 Original Demand Promissory Note
 dt.30.12.2009 for 2 crore (1 sheet) executed
 by A.2. Ex.P18 Original Letter of continuity dt.30.12.2009
 executed by A.2 (1 sheet)
Ex.P19 Letter dt 22.02.2010 of M/s. Binary
 Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., to the Manager,
 UBI with copy of Lease Agreement. Ex.P20 Extracts from the minutes of the Board
 Meeting dt.22.03.2010 (1) sheet. Ex.P21 Original Memorandum of Deposit of title
 deeds dt.26.03.2010 (5 sheets)
Ex.P22 Letter dt 2.4.2013 of C.Vinay Swamy
 Advocate, to UBI, Bengaluru Branch on
 behalf of M/s. Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt.
 Ltd., with copies of appeal memo in S.A.
 209/2013 (23 sheets)
Ex.P23 Credit Disbursement monitoring sheet of UBI
 dt. 8.1.2010 (2 sheets)
Ex.P24 Letter dt 06.01.2010 of M/s. Binary
 Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., to AGM, UBI, Blr
 Branch along with invoice with enclosures (8
 sheets)
Ex.P25 One file containing letter dt.6.6.2014 of UBI,
 Bengaluru branch to CBI with system
 generated vouchers (14 original FDS etc., 66
 sheets)
Ex.P25(a) 7 FDs in the name of Equastial Properties
Ex.P25(b) 7 Fds in the name of A.3. Ex.P26 Letter dt.28.07.2014 of AGM, UBI, Bengaluru
 to the CBI (2 sheets)
Ex.P26(a) Signature of PW.4
Ex.P27 Swift copy of Foreign Remittance of USD (5
 sheets)
Ex.P28 System generated sales and purchase report
 of UBI, Bengaluru Branch (5 sheets)
Ex.P29 End use certificate dt.04.02.2010 issued by
 K.Gopalakrishna & Co. Chartered
 Accountants Bengaluru (1 sheet)
Ex.P30 Letter dt.26.07.2014 from AGM (Legal) H.O.
 UBI, to Br.Manager, UBI, Bengaluru Branch
 (1 sheet)
Ex.P31 Letter dt.09.05.2014 of AGM, UBI (Vigilance
 Department) H.O. to CBI along with original
 complete process Note of review-cum- restructuring note in respect of A.2 (35 133 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 sheets)
Ex.P32 Letter dt.12.07.2014 of AGM, UBI,
 Bengaluru Branch to CBI including with copy
 of list of valuers (15 sheets)
Ex.P33 Letter dt. 02.06.2014 of DGM & CRM, United
 Bank of India, R.O. Bengaluru to CBI (1
 sheet)
Ex.P34 Letter dt.20.01.2012 of A.2 to AGM, United
 Bank of India, Bengaluru Branch for
 additional moratorium period (2 sheets)
Ex.P35 Letter dt. 30.03.2012 of United Bank of India,
 Bengaluru Branch to A.2 (1 sheet)
Ex.P36 Approved terms of sanction under
 rehabilitation package (4 sheets)
Ex.P37 Letter dt.21.07.2014 of AGM, United Bank of
 India (Vigilance) H.O. Bengaluru to CBI (1
 sheet)
Ex.P38 Letter dt.06.08.2014 of AGM, United Bank of
 India, Bengaluru to the IO (1 sheet)
Ex.P39 Valuation report submitted by L.S.Narayanan
 & Associates dated 28.07.2014. Ex.P39(a) Signature of PW.21. Ex.P40 Valuation Report of L.S.Narayanan &
 Associates dt.28.07.2014. Ex.P40(a) Signature of PW.21. Ex.P41 Receipt Memo dt.28.01.2014 (2 sheets)
Ex.P42 Letter dt.25.03.2010 of M/s. Binary
 Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd., to the Branch
 Manager United Bank of India, Bengaluru
 Branch regarding replacement (1 sheet)of
Ex.P43 Letter dt.29.12.2009 of Chief Manager United
 Bank of India, Bengaluru Branch to A.2. (1
 sheet)
Ex.P44 Valuation Report dt.17.12.2009 by M/s. S.S.Industrial Consultants in respect of 134 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Sy.No.110, Doddathoguru Village. Enterprises dt.14.07.2012 in respect of
 Sy.No.110, Doddathoguru Village (2 sheets)
Ex.P46(a) Signature of PW.7
Ex.P47 Valuation Report dt.12.03.2010 of
 S.S.Industrial Consultants in respect of
 Sy.No.95 of Anjanapura Village. Ex.P47(a) Signature of PW.15. Ex.P48 Valuation Report dt.08.03.2010
Ex.P48(a) Signature of PW.36
Ex.P49 Valuation Report dt.14.7.2012 of S &V
 Engineering Enterprises in respect of
 Sy.No.95 of Anjanapura Village. Ex.P49(a) Signature of PW.6. Ex.P50 Letter dt.05.09.2009 from AGM, Bengaluru
 Branch, United Bank of India to the G.M.
 SRO, Chennai. Ex.P51 Letter dt.23.10.2009 from G.M. SRO,
 Chennai to AGM, United Bank of India
 Bengaluru Branch regarding sanction of
 proposal with enclosures (26 sheets)
Ex.P52 Letter dt.2.9.2014 of AGM, United Bank of
 India blr Branch to the CBI. Ex.P52(a) Signature of PW.4. Ex.P53 Certificate under Bankers' Books of Evidence
 and the Information Technology Act, 2000
Ex.P53(a) Signature of PW.4
Ex.P54 Business Information Report given by Dun & 135 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Bradstreet India in respect of overseas vendor
 and letter dt.12.08.2014 (2 sheets)
Ex.P55 Covering letter dt.10.02.2014 of PW.6 to CBI.
Ex.P55(a) Signature of PW.6
Ex.P56 C/c of the registered Sale Deed dated
 04.12.2009 executed by Kinfotech Pvt. Ltd.,
 in favour of M/s. Binary Spectrum Softech
 Pvt. Ltd.,
Ex.P57 C/c. of the Memorandum of deposit of title
 deeds dt.30.12.2009. executed by Jaimuni Rao in favour of M/s.
 Binary Spectrum Softech Pvt. Ltd.,. Ex.P61 C/c. of E.C. for the period 01.04.2004 to
 5.2.2014. Ex.P62 Copy of the Gazette Notification
 dt.17.04.2007 reg. Guidance value. Ex.P63 Copy of the Gazette Notification
 dt.29.09.2011 reg. guidance value. Ex.P64 Copy of Gazette Notification dt.08.08.2013
 regarding guidance value. Ex.P65 Copy of the GPA dt.16.05.2008 in favour of
 N.Shivaprasad (6 sheets)
Ex.P66 Copy of the Legal opinion dt.25.03.2010 of
 Sri.Mohd. Ibrahim Panel Advocate in respect
 of properties Sy.No.95, Anjanapura Village,
 Uttarahally, Hobli, Bengaluru South Taluk (6
 sheets)
Ex.P67 Original registered Sale Deed dated
 04.12.2009 executed by M/s. Kinfotech Pvt.
 Ltd., in favour of M/s. Binary Spectrum 136 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Softech Pvt. Ltd., (8 sheets)
Ex.P67(a) Signature of PW.12
Ex.P67(b) Signature of PW.16
Ex.P68 Letter dt.23.07.2014 of K.Gopalakrishnan,
 CA to the CBI regarding forwardal of
 documents
Ex.P68(a) Signature of PW.14. Ex.P69 Attested copy of the End Use Certificate dated
 04.02.2010 issued by PW.14 with enclosures
 (66 sheets)
Ex.P70 to 76 Form No.D.2 addressed to the Manager,
 United Bank of India dt.7.1.2010 signed by
 PW.17 (7sheets)
Ex.P70(a) to Signature of PW.17
76(a)
Ex.P77 to 83 Form No.D2 addressed to the Manager,
 United Bank of India dt.7.1.2010 signed by
 A.3 (7 sheets)
Ex.P77(a) to Signature of A.3
83(a)
Ex.P84 C/c of the Resolution dt.4.1.2010 of the
 Board Meeting of Directors of M/s. Equastone
 Properties (1 sheet)
Ex.P85 Original Absolute Sale Deed dt.24.03.2010
 executed by PW.18 in favour of A.2 (7 sheets)
Ex.P85(a) Signature of PW.18
Ex.P86 C/c of the Sale Deed dt.21.11.2008 executged
 in favour of PW.18 (7 sheets)
Ex.P87 Letter dt.31.07.2014 of the Asst. Regn of
 companies to CBI (1 sheet)
Ex.P88 C/c of Certificate of Incorporation in respect
 of A.2. Ex.P89 C/c of Form No.32 in respect of A.2.
Ex.P90 C/c of Form No.203 of A.2 (37 sheets) 137 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 Ex.P91 C/c of Form No.23 A, C in respect of A.2 33
 sheets. Ex.P92 Letter dt. 30.06.2014 of PW.22. Ex.P95(b) C/c of Sale Deed dt.16.05.2005 executed in
 favour of B.M.Srinivasa Reddy. Ex.P95(c) C/c of Sale Deed dt.2.12.2009 executed in
 favour of M/s. Kinfotech Pvt. Ltd.,
Ex.P95(d) C/c of E.C. regarding mortgage in favour of
 United Bank of India. Ex.P96 Letter dt.13.12.2013 of CBI to the Court.
Ex.P97 FIR dt.13.12.2013 in R.C.No.17(A)/2013
Ex.P97(a) Signature of SP. Ex.P98 Letter dt.11.08.2014 of A.3 to CBI (3 sheets)
Ex.P99 Copy of share purchase agreement
 dt.21.03.2011 (10 sheets)
Ex.P100 Copy of share purchase agreement
 dt.1.2.2012 (10 sheets)
Ex.P101 Share Certificates Optech Consultancy Inc.
Ex.P102 3 transfer form, which comes along with the
 share certificate. Ex.P103 Letter dtd.14.08.2014 to CBI (2 sheets)
Ex.P104 Share Purchase Agreement dt.11.12.2009
Ex.P105 Share Certificates and the transform forms
Ex.P106 Letter from A.3 to CBI along with Board
 Resolution authority Mr. Gururaj. Ex.P107 Covering letter dt.17.07.2014 of Sr. Sub- Registrar, Kengeri to CBI. Ex.P107(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P108 2 ECs in respect of Sy.No.95 Anjanapura
 Village (4 sheets)
Ex.P109 C/c of the registered Sale Deed dt.16.12.2006
 executed in favour of P.Gurunath Reddy (9
 sheets)
Ex.P110 C/c of the registered Sale Deed dt.28.02.2005
 executed in favour of K.V.Surendra. Ex.P111 C/c of the registered Sale Deed dt.31.12.2003
 in favour of G.Srinivas
Ex.P112 C/c of the Sale Deed dt.17.09.1996,
 document of 5549/960-97
Ex.P113 Copy of the memo dt.13.08.2009 of District
 Registrar to SRO, Kengeri. Ex.P114 Copy of Letter dt.6.3.2009 of SRO, Kengeri to
 District Registrar, Bengaluru with Annexure
Ex.P115 Original 164 Cr.P.C ., statement of PW.27
 recorded in RC 16(A)/13 (Spl.CC 38/2015)
Ex.P115(a) Signature of PW.27
Ex.P116 Portion of 161 statement of PW.28
Ex.P117 Original 164 statement of PW.28 recorded in
 RC No.16(A)/13 (Spl.CC.38/15)
Ex.P117(a) Signature of PW.28
Ex.P118 Original 164 Cr.P.C . statement of PW.29
 recorded in RC No.16(A)/2013 (Spl.CC.38/15)
Ex.P118(a-c) Signature of PW.29
Ex.P119,120 Relevant portion of 161 Cr.P.C ., statement of
 PW.29. Ex.P121 One file captioned as M/s. Binary Spectrum
 Softech Pvt. Ltd.,
Ex.P122 Original account of Form in respect of Baba
 Sathyanarayana Trading Company along with 139 Spl.CC.No.37/2015 copies of KYC documents (10 sheets)
Ex.P123 Statement of A/c in respect of current A/c of
 Baba Sathyanarayana Trading Company for
 the period 10.07.2009 to 09.10.2009 along
 with 2 certificates U/Sec. 2 A of BBE Act and
 U/Sec. 65B of IE Act. LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED ON BEHALF OF DEFENSE: