Heard counsel for the parties. This bail application has been filed by the applicant, who
has been arrested on 13.02.2015 and is in Jail in connection
with Crime No.390/2011 registered with Police Station
Gopalganj, District Sagar - commonly known as VYAPAM
Examination Scam cases - for the offence punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 472 , 474 and 120-B of IPC
and also under Section 3(Gha) (2) / 4 of the M.P. Manyata
Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is
that of a beneficiary. It is alleged that applicant contacted one
Tapas Sharma who alongwith Santosh Sharma arranged for the
impersonator to appear in the examination conducted by
VYAPAM. It is not in dispute that Tapas Sharma has already
been arrested on 21.04.2015. The applicant has been
confronted with Tapas Sharma. The applicant was arrested on
13.2.2015. Charge-sheet has also been filed against the
applicant on 11.3.2015. The fact that Santosh Sharma is still
not arrested, in our opinion, should not come in the way for
consideration of bail application of the applicant if
 investigation against him is complete in all other respects. In
that the applicant had interacted mainly with Tapas Sharma,
who with the help of Santosh Sharma arranged for the
impersonator. As aforesaid, Tapas Sharma is already in jail.
Further investigation can continue even without applicant
remaining in jail and more particularly when the applicant
through counsel undertakes to appear before the Investigating
Officer as and when called for further investigation including
against him as also to punctually appear before the trial Court
to ensure early disposal of the criminal trial. Since charge-
sheet has already been filed against the applicant and the next
link with the applicant i.e. Tapas Sharma is already arrested
and further custodial interrogation of applicant is not required
as of now. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the
matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the applicant on
following strict conditions:- The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.