Shri Suresh Agrawal, Counsel for the Petitioner
Shri M.P.S. Raghuvanshi, Additional Advocate General
Shri Tapan Trivedi, Counsel for respondent no.3
Shri D.P. Singh, Counsel for respondents no. 4 and 5
 .............................................................................................................. 1. This petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has

been filed seeking the following relief(s) : 2. The matter was taken up on 2-11-2020, and arguments on the

question that whether reputation/privacy/personal liberty of a citizen

of India are integral part of Article 21 of the Constitution of India or

not, and whether monetary compensation can be awarded for

violation of fundamental rights or not, were heard. When the facts of

this case were being considered in the light of the law of the land,

then the Advocate General sought time to reconsider the action taken

by the police authorities against the respondents no. 3 to 5, as

according to him, the matter was handled by the police authorities in

a most casual manner. Accordingly after holding that right of

Privacy/reputation/dignity are integral part of Article 21 of the

Constitution of India and monetary compensation can be awarded to

the victim for violation of his Fundamental Rights, this Court

adjourned the matter at the request of the Advocate General for

further hearing on merits of the case. 3. The respondents no. 3 and 4 were posted as Sub-Inspector,

whereas the respondent no.5 was posted as Constable in Police

Station Bahodapur, Distt. Gwalior. The respondents no. 1 and 2 have

filed their additional return. The matter is heard on merits. 4. Although the facts of this case were already mentioned in

detail in the order dated 2-11-2020, but at the cost of repetition, they

are being reproduced once again from order dated 2-11-2020: The goods including the furniture of the shop

was taken to the police station where the

petitioner was compelled to give an undertaking

that he would vacate the shop and accordingly,

the goods belonging to the petitioner were

returned by the respondents. Thereafter, on 14-8-

2020, the respondent no. 3 and 5 took the

petitioner in custody, and got his uncovered face

photograph published in the newspapers as well

as on social media, by projecting him as a hard 4 core criminal. On a complaint made to the

 Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, an enquiry

 was conducted and it was found that the

 petitioner is an innocent person having no

 criminal antecedents and accordingly, he was

 released. It is the stand of the respondents no. 1

 and 2 that one person with similar name was

 wanted in a criminal case which was registered in

 the year 2011 and a reward of Rs. 5,000/- was

 declared by the Superintendent of Police,

 Gwalior by order dated 13-8-2020 and under

 mistaken identity, the petitioner was wrongly

 taken into custody. The respondent no.3 was

 placed under suspension and the news with

 regard to his suspension was duly published in

 the news papers. 5. It is submitted by the Counsel for the State that in the

compliance report dated 2-11-2020, the respondents no. 1 and 2 had

clearly pleaded that violation of personal liberty of a citizen of India

is a serious misconduct, but by mistake, the respondents no.1 and 2

were in-correct on their part to plead "that the present case is merely

that of mistaken identity and is not a serious misconduct on the part

of the respondents no. 3 to 5". It was prayed that this incorrect stand

taken by the respondents no. 1 and 2 in their compliance report dated 5 2-11-2020 be ignored and may be permitted to be withdrawn. 6. It is submitted by the Counsel for the State, that in the

compliance report dated 9-11-2020, it was mentioned that the

respondents no. 3 to 5 have been line-attached, but looking to the

seriousness of the misconduct committed by them, today, they have

been placed under suspension. 7. As already pointed out, the incident took place in two phases,

i.e, on 25-7-2020, the petitioner was forcibly dispossessed from his

shop by the respondents no. 3 to 5 at the behest of the landlady and

thereafter, on 14-8-2020, the petitioner was taken in custody (No

arrest memo was prepared) on the pretext that a reward of Rs. 5,000

has been declared by S.P., Gwalior against him and his uncovered

face photograph with news "An accused with reward of Rs. 5000 has

been arrested" was also published in the news papers as well as was

uploaded on social media by the police. 8. Shri Amit Sanghi, Superintendent of Police, Gwalior during the

course of hearing through Video Conferencing, made a submission

that in fact he received a telephonic call from the brother of the

petitioner, informing him that his brother is an innocent person, but

still he has been taken into custody, and he immediately, got an

enquiry done and when it was found that the respondents no. 3 and 5

have wrongly taken the petitioner in custody, then not only he

ensured that the petitioner is released, but an arrangement was also

made to send him to his house. This submission made by Shri Amit 6 Sanghi, Superintendent of Police, Gwalior also finds corroboration

from the press notes released by the police, which have been filed by

the respondents no. 1 and 2 along with the compliance report dated

20-10-2020, and news published in the Dainik Bhaskar dated 15-8-

2020 is reproduced as under : 9. Incident dated 25-7-2020 10. It is the allegation of the petitioner, that he is a tenant in a shop,

and at the behest of the landlady, the respondents no. 3 to 5, forcibly

evicted him from the shop and his belongings were taken to the

police station, where he was forced to give an undertaking that he

would vacate the shop and only thereafter, his some of the belongings

were returned back and the remaining articles and money have not

been returned. It is also alleged that during forcible eviction

proceedings, the respondent no. 4 and 5 had also beaten him. The

photographs of taking out the articles/belongings out of the shop,

loading the same on a mini truck and the presence of respondent no. 5

on the spot have also been filed. 11. It is not out of place to mention here that although the

respondents no. 4 and 5 have filed their detailed return, but they have

not denied the allegations of beating, forcible eviction by respondents

no. 4 and 5, non-return of some of the belongings and money of the

petitioner as well as the correctness of the photographs filed by the

petitioner. 12. The respondent no. 4, in her return, has pleaded that so far as

the incident, which took place on 14-8-2020 is concerned, She was

not in the town and had gone to Jhansi in connection with some other

investigation. Even the petitioner has not alleged that on 14-8-2020,

the respondent no. 4 was present. Thus, it is clear that the respondent

no. 4 is not involved in the incident which took place on 14-8-2020. 13. So far as the incident of forcible dispossession of the petitioner

from his shop by the respondents no. 3 to 5 is concerned, it is the

stand of the respondent no. 4 that on 25-7-2020, the landlady made

an application to the respondent no. 3 seeking dispossession of the

petitioner from the shop, which was marked to her. The copy of the

application made by the landlady to the respondent no. 3, with his

remark is reproduced as under : 14. The respondent no. 4 has also filed a copy of the undertaking

given by the petitioner, at the police station, which is at Page 23 of

the return of respondents no. 4 and 5, which reads as under : Thereafter, the respondent no. 3 submitted his report to the Senior

Police Officers, in which it is mentioned that on receiving an

information of ruckus, the respondent no. 4 had gone to the shop of

the petitioner, and brought the belongings of the petitioner to the

police station and obtained an undertaking from the Petitioner

(Which has already been reproduced). The copy of letter dated 27-7-

2020 written by respondent no. 3 to the respondent no. 4 and the 11 report of the respondent no.3 to the Senior Police Officers are

reproduced as under : 2020, at about 15:30, the respondent no. 3 went back to his residence

and at 16.46 he received a Whatsapp text message from Reserved

Inspector, Gwalior Shri Arvind Dangi, which reads as under : 7-2020 made by landlady and behind the back of the respondent no.

3, the respondent no. 4 had already brought the belongings to the

Police Station and had already compelled the petitioner to submit an

undertaking. It is further submitted that the endorsement made on the

application dated 25-7-2020, made by the landlady, doesnot bear his

signatures and the entire incident took place, when the respondent no.

3 was in his residence. However, the respondent no.3, has not

claimed that the endorsement of entrusting enquiry to respondent

no.4 is not in his handwriting. It is further pleaded in the return that

the respondent no.3 is aware of the fact "that vacation of property

dispute is a civil dispute and he cannot act in violation of law". So

far as the incident dated 14-8-2020 is concerned, it is pleaded that on

13-8-2020, the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior had declared

rewards against various persons, and reward of Rs. 5000 was

declared against one Arun Sharma, son of Omprakash Sharma,

resident of Sector No.02, D-97, Vinay Nagar, Police Station

Bahodapur. On 14-8-2020, the respondent no. 5 informed him that

the petitioner is the same person and relying on his information, the 14 petitioner was brought to the police station and since, the person

against whom reward was declared, was wanted in a criminal case

registered at Police Station Gole Ka Mandir, Gwalior, therefore, the

verification was done by Police of Gole ka Mandir, and when it was

found that the petitioner is not the person, against whom reward has

been declared by the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, then he was

allowed to go. This stand of the respondent no.3, regarding

voluntary verification of identity of the petitioner by Police of Police

Station Gole Ka Mandir, Gwalior is not correct in the light of the

press note relied upon by the respondents no.1 and 2, which have

been filed by them along with compliance report dated 20-10-2020.

However, admitted that the news with regard to the arrest of the

petitioner with his uncovered face got circulated among the News

Paper and Social Media. It is further pleaded that since, circular

dated 2-1-2014 was in existence, therefore, the news was shared. It is

further submitted that a news was also published in the news paper

that the respondent no.3 has been placed under suspension on

arresting an innocent person. It is further pleaded that for the fault of

the newspaper, the respondent no. 3 cannot be held liable. Further it

is pleaded that at the time of photo session also, the respondent no. 5

was present and is also in the photo, but even at that time, the

respondent no. 5 never disclosed to the respondent no. 3, that the

petitioner is not the person against whom a reward has been declared.

Although the petitioner has admitted that unless and until, "a person 15 is held guilty by a Court of competent jurisdiction, he is presumed

that he is innocent", but still insisted that the petitioner is an accused

in two other cases. 19. So far as the return filed by the respondent no. 5 is concerned,

he has not taken any stand with regard to the incident which took

place on 25-7-2020. He has also not denied the photographs filed by

the petitioner, in which he is visible on the spot, when the shop was

being got forcibly vacated. Thus, in absence of any denial on the part

of the respondent no. 5, regarding his presence on the spot on 25-7-

2020, it is held that the respondents no. 4 and 5 went to the shop of

the petitioner, and got the same vacated in an illegal manner without

there being any order of the Court. 20. In the undated report of the respondent no.3 (which has been

filed by the respondent no.4 and has been reproduced), the

respondent no.3, tried to mislead the Superintendent of Police,

Gwalior, by saying that an information was received that there was

some ruckus at Pagalkhana Tiraha, therefore, S.I. Sangeeta Minj

went with force. But, the respondent no. 3, in his letter dated 27-7-

2020, written to respondent no.4, had himself written that the

respondent no. 4 has brought the belongings of the petitioner on the

complaint made by the landlady and there is nothing in letter dated

27-7-2020, that the respondent no. 4 was sent after receiving an

information of ruckus at Pagalkhana Tiraha. Further, it is clear from

the application dated 25-7-2020 written by Landlady, the said 16 application was marked by the respondent no.3 to respondent no. 4

for enquiry. 21. The Counsel for the State also could not point out as to how,

the respondent no. 3 could have taken cognizance of the complaint

made by the landlady. From the plain reading of the application, it is

clear that She had prayed for recovery of arrears of rent as well as for

eviction of the petitioner. By no stretch of imagination, the complaint

filed made by the landlady can be said to have disclosed cognizable

offence. Even a non-cognizable offence was not disclosed in the

complaint. The entire complaint was beyond the jurisdiction of the

police authorities but still cognizance of the same was taken. 22. When a specific question was put to Shri Amit Sanghi,

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, that whether it is the official duty

of the police to get the shops vacated without there being any orders

of the Court, then it was rightly admitted by Shri Amit Sanghi,

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, that the police has no authority

whatsoever under any law, to evict the tenants from the tenanted

premises and the eviction can take place only under the decree of

eviction issued by the Court of competent jurisdiction. However, it is

submitted by Shri Sanghi, that the incident of 25-7-2020 took place

prior to his posting in Gwalior. Even the respondent no.3, in his

return has categorically stated that the matter of eviction is a civil

matter and police has no jurisdiction. 23. Although the Counsel for the respondent no. 4 relied upon 17 Section 23 of Police Act, but as a departmental enquiry is pending

against the respondents no. 3 to 5, therefore, only undisputed facts

and the stand taken by the respondents as well as the preliminary

enquiry reports are being considered for deciding this petition.

However, it is not out of place to mention here, that now the

respondents no. 3 to 5 are involved in mud-sledging on each other,

thereby placing certain documents on record, which were suppressed

by the respondents no. 1 and 2. 24. It is the case of the respondent no. 4 that it was the respondent

no. 3, who had directed her to enquire the complaint made by the

landlady, whereas it is the case of the respondent no. 3, that the copy

of the complaint was given to him by respondent no. 4, only when he

returned back to the police station at 16:00 and the endorsement made

on the application thereby, directing the respondent no. 4 to enquire,

does not bear his signatures. However, the return of the respondent

no. 3 is beautifully silent as to whether such endorsement is in his

handwriting or not? In para 8 of the return, the respondent no. 3 has

pleaded that as per routine procedure when any complaint is

submitted in Police Station, it is registered in Complaint register and

is placed by the Police Station Munshi before the respondent no.3.

Although it is the contention of the respondent no. 3 that he was

given the said application by the respondent no.4, only after he came

back to the police station at 16:00, but his return is completely silent

as to why he did not ask the respondent no. 4, that under whose 18 authority, the endorsement of entrusting enquiry to the respondent no.

4 was written. In absence of such pleadings, an adverse inference has

to be drawn against the respondent no.3, and it is held that

endorsement made on the application dated 25-7-2020 made by the

landlady is in the handwriting of the respondent no.3 and it was the

respondent no.3 who had entrusted the enquiry to the respondent no. 4. Thus, it is clear that the respondent no. 3 has taken a completely

false stand in his return, that he had not marked the application, made

by landlady, to the respondent no.4. Further, the respondent no. 3,

himself has placed the copy of text message received by him on

Whatsapp from Reserved Inspector Shri Arvind Dangi that the

police of Bahodapur Police Station, in connivance with the

landlord, has taken away the belongings of the tenant. Thus, the

respondent no.3, himself has proved that the petitioner was forcibly

evicted by the respondents no. 4 and 5 and since, the complaint was

marked by the respondent no.3, therefore, it can be safely presumed

that the entire incident of forcible eviction took place on the

instructions of the respondent no.3, inspite of his admission in para 8

of his return that vacation of property is a civil dispute. The stand

taken by the respondent no. 3, in para 8 of his return reads as under : 25. Further, the respondent no. 3 has not placed any document on

record to show that on 25-7-2020, he was at his residence till 17:00. 19 26. Further, a preliminary enquiry into the incident was conducted

by C.S.P., Gwalior, and it was found that the respondents no. 4 to 5

are guilty of forcibly evicting the petitioner from the shop. Although

the copy of the preliminary enquiry report has not been placed on

record, but under the instructions of the Court, the Superintendent of

Police, Gwalior, has made the same available. The preliminary

enquiry report dated 28-7-2020 reads as under : yksxksa }kjk mlds lkFk ekjihV dj mldh nqdku ds lkeku dh
 rksM+QksM dj mfu lftark feat o vkj{kd vpy 'kekZ ds }kjk
 yksfMax esa nqdku dk lkeku Hkjdj cgksM+kiqj Fkkus ij ys tkus ds
 laca/k esa izLrqr fd;k x;k gSA
 vkosnd dh mDr f'kdk;r ds laca/k esa Fkkuk izHkkjh cgksM+kiqj
 ls rF;kRed izfrosnu izkIr fd;k x;k ,oa vkosnd dk dFku ys[k
 fd;k x;k ftlls ik;k fd&
 ;g fd vkosnd v:.k 'kekZ us vius dFku esa crk;k fd og
 fiNys djhc 7 lky ls vukosnd fofiu vk;Z fuoklh ikxy[kkuk
 frjkgs cgksM+kiqj ds ;gka ,d nqdku 1400@& izfrekg ds fdjk;s ij
 ysdj dksYM fMªad o uedhu o fdjkus dk lkeku csapus dk dke
 djrk gS vukosnd ds ifjtuksa }kjk vkosnd ls iwoZ esa 2 yk[k :i;s
 m/kkj ysuk ftlds C;kt ds ,ct esa vkosnd dks nqdku dk fdjk;k
 nsus ls euk djuk bl dkj.k vkosnd }kjk fiNys ,d lky ls
 nqdku dk fdjk;k ugha nsuk rFkk fnukad 25-07-2020 dks 'kke djhc
 4 cts Fkkuk cgksM+kiqj dh mfu laftrk feat] vkj{kd vpy 'kekZ o
 edku ekfyd fofiu vk;Z mldk HkkbZ vUuw] pkpk [ksjk vk;Z dk
 vU; O;fDr;ksa ds lkFk vkukA vkj{kd vpy 'kekZ ds }kjk vkosnd
 ls ikuh dh cksry o ehBh lqikjh ysuk ftlds iSls vkosnd }kjk 20 vkj{kd ls ekaxus ij vkj{kd vpy }kjk ds }kjk fofiu dk
 fdjk;s u nsus okyh ckr mlls dguk ftl ij vkosnd }kjk
 vkj{kd fofiu ds ?kjokyksa ls iwoZ esa bl laca/k esa ckr gks tkus dh
 ckr dgrs gq;s] vpy 'kekZ ds }kjk pkVk ekjuk rFkk eSMe feat ds
 }kjk vpy 'kekZ o fofiu vk;Z ls dgk fd nqdku ls ckgj ysdj
 vkus o ekjihV djus dh dgus ij vpy 'kekZ o fofiu vk;Z o
 muds lkFk vk;s lHkh yksxks ds }kjk ekjihV djuk o nqdku dk
 lkeku ckgj Qsaduk ftlls dkQh uqdlku gksuk rFkk eSMe }kjk
 lkeku dks yksfMax okgu esa Hkjdj cgksM+kiqj Fkkus ij ys tkuk rFkk
 mls >wBs gfjtu ,DV o NsM+NkM+ ds dsl esa Qalkus dh /kedh nsuk
 crkrs gq;s vkosnd }kjk mfu laftrk feat o vpy 'kekZ }kjk
 yksfMax esa Hkj x;s lkeku dh QksVks Hkh izLrqr fd, x; gS foLr`r
 dFku layXu gSA
 Fkkuk izHkkjh cgksM+kiqj ls izkIr fd, x, izfrosnu esa Fkkuk
 izHkkjh }kjk fnukad 25-07-2020 dks vkosfndk jkeorh ckbZ ds }kjk
 vukosnd v:.k 'kekZ ds f[kykQ vkosnu nsuk rFkk fnukad 25-07-
 2020 dks ikxy[kkus frjkgs ij HkhM+ o yMkbZ >xMk tSls gkykr
 mRiUu gksus dh otg ls mfu lathrk feat e; QkslZ ds ikxy
 [kkuk frjkgs igqaph o yMkbZ >xMs dk dkj.k iwNus ij fofiu vk;Z
 ds }kjk nqdku [kkyh djokdj yksfMax esa lkeku Hkjok;k tkuk
 fookn dh fLFkfr ns[k mfu lathrk feat ds }kjk nksuksa ikfV;ksa
 le>kuk ugha ekuus ij nksuksa ikfVZ;ksa o yksfMax okgu dks Fkkus ij
 ysdj vkuk o edku fdjk;s ,oa iSls ds ysu&nsu dk fookn gksuk
 crk;k gS nksuksa ikfVZ;ksa dks le>kbl nsuk] nksuksa ikfVZ;ksa dk vkil esa
 vkilh le>kSrk ls jkthukek fd;k tkuk ckn nksuksa i{kksa dk
 lkeatL; gksus ls nksuks ikfVZ;ks dk viuk lkeku okil ys tkuk
 ys[k fd;k x;k gSA
 f'kdk;r lEiw.kZ tkap dFku vkosnd] Li"Vhdj.k mfu
 laftrk feat ,oa vkosnd }jk izLrqr fd, x, QksVks mfu lathrk
 feat ,oa vkj{kd 1644 vpy 'kekZ ds }kjk vukosnd fofiu
 vk;Z dk lg;ksx djrs gq;s vkosnd v:.k 'kekZ dh nqdku
 dk lkeku voS/k rjhds ls yksfMax esa Hkjdj Fkkus ij ykuk
 ik;k x;k gS tksfd mifujh{kd lathrk feat ,oa vkj{kd 1644
 vpy 'kekZ Fkkuk cgksM+kiqj ds }kjk vius inh; vf/kdkjksa dk
 nq#i;ksx djrs gq;s iqfyl lsok dh 'krksZ dk mYya?ku fd;k tkdj
 iqfyl dh Nfo dks /kwfey djus dh d`R; fd;k x;k gSA
 izfrosnu mfpr dk;Zokgh gsrq izsf"kr gSA

 layXu&vkosnd dk vkosnu i= e; QksVks
 Fkkuk izHkkjh dk izfrosnu e; izi=

 ¼ukxsUnz flag fldjokj½

 uxj iqfyl v/kh{kd

 vuqHkkx Xokfy;j 27. Thus, it is clear that although the complaint/application dated

25-7-2020 did not disclose commission of any cognizable offence, 21 but instead of directing the landlady to approach the Civil Court

seeking eviction of the petitioner, the respondent no. 3, immediately

usurp the powers of the Civil Court, and directed the respondent no. 4

to enquire into the allegations of non-payment of rent and non

vacating of shop by the petitioner. Thereafter, without wasting even a

single minute, the respondents no. 4 and 5 went to the shop of the

petitioner, and after dispossessing him forcibly, his belongings were

brought to the police station, where an undertaking was obtained

from the petitioner, and only thereafter, he was allowed to take back

his belongings from the Police Station. Thus, the manner in which the

petitioner was evicted from his shop in an illegal manner, it appears

that the respondents no 3 to 5 took contract from the landlady to get

the shop vacated, which is an alarming situation and cannot be

ignored by the Court. Even the respondent no.3 has produced a text

message received from Reserved Inspector, Shri Arvind Dangi, which

also says that the police of Bahodapur Police Station, in connivance

with landlord has taken away the belongings of the tenant to the

police station. 28. The Supreme Court in the case of State of Maharashtra Vs.

Saeed Sohail Sheikh reported in (2012) 13 SC 192 has held as

under: (Underline supplied) 29. By no stretch of imagination, it can be said that the conduct of

the respondents no. 3 to 5 was in discharge of their official duties.

Under these circumstances, this Court has to deal with the matter

with all seriousness and has to deal with heavily. It is also not out of

place to mention here that after an undertaking was given by the

petitioner in the police station, some of his belongings were returned

and was permitted to keep the same in the shop. However, none of

the respondents i.e., No. 3 to 5 have disputed the allegation of the

petitioner, that some of his belongings and money has not been

returned back. 30. Incident dated 14-8-2020 31. The admitted facts are that a reward of Rs. 5,000/- was

declared by Superintendent of Police, Gwalior on 13-8-2020, against 23 one Arun Sharma, son of Omprakash Sharma, resident of Section

No.2, D-97, Vinaynagar, Police Station Bahodapur, Distt. Gwalior,

whereas the petitioner is Arun Sharma son of Omprakash Sharma,

resident of Laxman Talaiya, Near Asmani Mata Temple, Kapate Wali

Gali, Bahodapur, Distt. Gwalior. Thus, it is clear that residential

address of both the persons are different. Another undisputed fact

is that the petitioner was brought to the Police Station Bahodapur, on

14-8-2020 at 13:56 and was released at 21:37. Thus, it is clear that

the petitioner was kept in illegal confinement in the Police Station for

7 1/2 hours, and during this period, the respondent no.3, even did not

try to verify that whether the petitioner is the same person against

whom reward has been declared by the S.P., Gwalior, or not. The

respondent on.3 could have verified the identity of the petitioner from

his residential address also, but even that was not done. It is also

mandatory under law, that after arresting a person, an information is

to be given to his family members. As the brother of the petitioner

had already approached the S.P., Gwalior, therefore, the respondent

no.3 was aware that the residential address of the petitioner is

different from that of the person, against whom reward has been

declared by S.P., Gwalior. 32. Further, the respondent no. 1 in para 11 of his return has stated

that after the reward of Rs. 5000 was declared by the Superintendent

of Police, Gwalior, instructions were issued to the Police Station

Bahodapur personals to put the efforts to trace out Arun Sharma, son 24 of Omprakash Sharma, wanted in crime no. 255/2011. The copy of

the order by which rewards were declared by the Superintendent of

Police, Gwalior has also been filed by the respondent no.1. From the

said order, it is clear that reward against one more person, namely

Avinash son of Ashok Upadhyay resident of Sector 3, behind

Electricity Office, Vinay Nagar, Police Station Bahodapur, Distt.

Gwalior, was also declared and he was also the resident of an area

falling within the territorial jurisdiction of Police Station Bahodapur,

then why instructions were issued to trace out Arun Sharma only and

why not Avinash son of Ashok Upadhyay also? Thus, it is clear that

Arun Sharma (Tenant) was unlawfully taken into custody with malice

and in utter misuse of the official position. 33. Further, the return of the respondent no.3, is completely silent

on the question of timing of sending press release to I.T. Cell,

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior. Further, it is the stand of the

respondent no.3 himself, that since, the person against whom, the

reward was declared was wanted in a crime registered at Police

Station Gole Ka Mandir, and after due verification by Police of Gole

Ka Mandir, the petitioner was released, but has not clarified that why

the respondent no. 3, released the press note and forwarded the same

to the I.T. Cell, Superintendent of Police, with uncovered face of the

petitioner by branding him as "An accused with reward of Rs. 5000",

even prior to verification. Thus, it is clear that the respondent no. 3,

did not verify the identity of the petitioner and deliberately released 25 the press note with uncovered face of the petitioner. Further, the

stand that the Police of Gole Ka Mandir, had voluntarily verified the

identity of the petitioner, is contrary to the submission made by the

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior. At the cost of repetition, it is once

again pointed out that during the course of hearing, it was specifically

stated by Superintendent of Police, Gwalior that on receiving a

complaint from the brother of the petitioner, he got the enquiry done,

and when it was found that the petitioner was never required by the

police, then he was released. Further, it is the stand of the respondent

no. 3, that the press note was released in the light of the Circular

dated 14-1-2014, which has been partially quashed by this Court by

its order dated 2-11-2020. However, the Counsel for the respondent

no. 3, could not point out any thing from the then existing circular, to

show that the police officers were given unfettered right to declare

any innocent person as a "an Accused against whom reward has been

declared" and release the press note with his uncovered face

photograph, even without due verification. Even otherwise, the

conduct of the respondent no.3 was not in accordance with the

circular dated 2-1-2014, which was in existence till 2-11-2020. Thus,

it is clear that now the respondents no. 3 to 5 are trying to indulge

themselves in mud sledging against each other, however, the fact of

the case is that while doing so, they themselves have disclosed certain

inculpatory facts which were suppressed by the respondents no. 1 and

2 in their return. 34. Further, Additional Superintendent of Police, Gwalior has also

conducted a preliminary enquiry. It is really surprising that all the

senior police officers were somehow trying to project that the present

case is that of mistaken identity. Although, the copy of the

preliminary enquiry report prepared by Shri Pankaj Pandey, Add.

Superintendent of Police, City (Center), Gwalior was not filed by the

respondents, but on the directions of the Court, the same has been

made available and the same is reproduced as under : 35. In the conclusion, it was observed by the Add. Superintendent

of Police, City (Center), Gwalior that it is a case of mistaken identity

done under excitement, because of similarity in name, father's name

and residential address. Surprisingly, the Add. S.P., City (Center),

Gwalior himself has disclosed the residential addresses of the

petitioner and the wanted person in his preliminary enquiry report,

but inspite of that he, for the reasons best known to him, gave a

wrong finding that because the residential address of both the persons

were same, therefore, the respondent no. 3 had committed mistake. 36. At the cost of repetition, it is once again clarified that during

the course of hearing of the case, the S.P., Gwalior has made a

statement before this Court, during the course of arguments, that in

fact he had received a call on his mobile phone from the brother of 35 the petitioner, and only on his instructions, an enquiry was conducted

and the petitioner was later on released. But the Add. Superintendent

of Police, City (Center), Gwalior, did not mention this fact in his

Preliminary Enquiry Report, although he has recorded the statement

of one Shri R.P. Gautam, Sub-Inspector, Police Station Gola ka

Mandir, Gwalior, who had conducted an enquiry in order to find out

the identity of the petitioner. But surprisingly, the Add.

Superintendent of Police, City (Center), Gwalior, in his preliminary

enquiry report, conveniently drew a conclusion that by mistaken

identity the petitioner was brought to the Police Station and upon his

identification he was released, but did not mention that the

respondents no. 3 to 5 did not try to verify the identity of the

petitioner on their own, but the identity of the petitioner was

established only after the intervention of the Superintendent of

Police. Further, the respondent no.3 also in his return, did not claim

that after taking the petitioner in custody, he ever tried to verify his

identity. Be that as it may be. 37. It is surprising, that the Additional Superintendent of Police,

City (Center), Gwalior was informed by the petitioner, about the

incident which had taken place on 25-7-2020, and was also aware of

the fact that in both the incidents, the respondent no.3 and 5 were

involved, but still did not try to find out as to whether the unlawful

custody of the petitioner on 14-8-2020 by the respondent no.3 and 5

was the case of mistaken identity or it was in continuation of the 36 incident dated 25-7-2020. As already observed that it appears, that

the respondents no.3,4 and 5 had taken a contract for getting the shop

vacated, and when the shop was not vacated by the petitioner inspite

of the undertaking given by him in the police station, therefore,

deliberately he was apprehended on 14-8-2020. Even before the

enquiry officer, the respondent no.3 had made a statement that he had

blindly believed the information given by the respondent no. 5 that

the present petitioner is the same person, against whom a reward of

Rs. 5,000 has been declared by the Superintendent of Police. 38. Further, the Add. Superintendent of Police, City (Center),

Gwalior did not even try to verify that whether the respondent no. 5

was on his duty in the police station or was on duty at somewhere

else. According to the respondent no. 5, he was on duty at another

point, and he doesnot know anything about the unlawful

apprehension of the petitioner. However, in the preliminary enquiry,

it was found that the petitioner was unlawfully apprehended by the

respondent no.3, on the information given by the respondent no.5.

Thus, it is clear that the respondent no. 5 was not on the point, where

he was deputed, but he was roaming around here and there.

However, the Add. Superintendent of Police, City (Center), Gwalior,

did not observe about the conduct of respondent no. 5 of leaving his

point of duty and roaming around here and there. Be that whatever it

may be. 39. Further, the respondent no. 5 has admitted that in the 37 photograph of the petitioner with uncovered face which was

published in the newspaper, he is also there. It is fairly conceded by

the Counsel for the respondent no.5, that as per the duty Rojnamcha

Sanha, the respondent no. 5 should not have been in the police station

at the time of photo session. Further, it is the stand of the respondent

no.3, that it was the respondent no.5, who had given an information

that the petitioner is the same person, against whom a reward of Rs.

5000 has been declared by the Superintendent of Police. Thus, it is

clear that inspite of the best efforts by the respondents no. 3,4, and 5,

as the petitioner had not handed over the vacant possession of the

Shop to the landlady, therefore, the petitioner was taken into unlawful

custody on 14-8-2020 at 13:56 and was kept in the police station

unlawfully till 21:37 and was released only after the intervention of

the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior and in the meanwhile, the

photograph of the petitioner was circulated amongst Social Media as

well as Print Media by projecting him as under : 40. Another important aspect of the matter is that according to the

preliminary enquiry report prepared by the Add. Superintendent of

Police, City (Center), Gwalior, the petitioner was brought to the

Police Station Bahodapur, Distt. Gwalior on 14-8-2020 at 13:56 and

was kept till 21:37, but for the reasons best known to the respondents

no. 3 and 5, the petitioner was not formally arrested. If the

respondents no. 3 and 5 were of the view that the petitioner is the 38 same person against whom reward of Rs. 5000 has been declared by

the S.P., Gwalior, then there was no impediment for arresting the

petitioner formally. Further, if the movements of the petitioner were

curtailed in order to do some investigation, then the primary duty of

the respondent no. 3 and 5 was to verify as to whether the petitioner

is the same person, against whom the reward of Rs. 5000 was

declared by the Superintendent of Police or not. Even that was not

done. Further, the respondent no. 3 has tried to shred his

responsibility by stating that he had acted on the information given

by the respondent no.5, but the said stand of the respondent no. 3

cannot be accepted because, even if the stand of the respondent no.3

is accepted, but still it cannot be said that he had acted in good faith.

The word "Good Faith" has been defined in Section 52 of I.P.C.,

which reads as under : It is not the case of the respondent no.3, that before and after

taking the petitioner in custody and before releasing the press note

with news "An accused with reward of Rs. 5000 has been arrested" Neither the person whose name is entered in the
 register nor any other member of the public can have
 access to the surveillance register. .........

 The Supreme Court in the case of Bhim Singh (Supra) has

held as under : Custodians of law and order should not become
 depredators of civil liberties. Their duty is to protect
 and not to abduct......... 41. During the course of arguments, it was submitted by the

Counsel for the respondent no.3 that a mistake has been committed

by respondent no.3, but that was committed in excitement and now he

would abide by all the judgments passed by Supreme Court as well as

High Court and now he would follow all instructions. The contention

made by the Counsel for the respondent no.3 cannot be accepted. The

Counsel for the respondent no.3 could not point out any provision of

law, which gives authority or exemption to the respondent no. 3 from

deviating his duties under excitement. Further, this admission

clearly establishes that the respondent no. 3 had acted in a haste

under rash and reckless excitement without any due care and

attention. Further, what was the need of excitement is also not 41 known. 42. Thus, it is clear that not only the petitioner was taken in

unlawful detention, but he was projected in the media that he is a "an

accused with reward of Rs. 5000". Although, the respondents no. 3

and 5 had, intentionally apprehended the petitioner in an unlawful

manner, but unfortunately, the police authorities have tried to project

that it is a simple case of mistaken identity. Further, the respondents

no. 1 and 2, in their compliance report dated 20-10-2020, have filed a

copy of news published in the newspaper that the respondent no. 3

has been suspended for arresting an innocent person. Thus, it is the

case of the respondents no. 1 and 2 also, that the petitioner was

arrested but is completely silent as to why formal arrest memo was

not prepared? 43. It is a well established principle of law that there is a difference

between "Custody" and "Arrest". The Supreme Court in the case of Khatri (2) v. State of Bihar , reported in (1981) 1 SCC 627, has held

as under : (Underline supplied)

 The Supreme Court in the case of Mohd. Arif v. State (NCT

of Delhi ), reported in (2011) 13 SCC 621 has held as under : This itself signifies that immediately after he was
 apprehended, the accused was in effective custody of
 the investigating agency. The Supreme Court in the case of Sundeep Kumar Bafna v. 43 State of Maharashtra , reported in (2014) 16 SCC 623 has held as

under : Therefore, it seems to us that constriction or
 curtailment of personal liberty cannot be justified by a
 conjectural dialectic. The only restriction allowed as a
 general principle of law common to all legal systems
 is the period of 24 hours post arrest on the expiry of
 which an accused must mandatorily be produced in a
 court so that his remand or bail can be judicially
 considered. 44. It is clear that after taking the petitioner in unlawful custody,

the respondents no. 3 and 5 did not waste a single minute in sending

the press note with photograph to I.T., Cell, Office of S.P. Gwalior.

Although the Add. Superintendent of Police, City (Center), Gwalior,

during preliminary enquiry has recorded the statement of Head

Constable 1875 Surendra Kumar Bhatele, who has stated that on 14-

8-2020, the respondent no.3 had sent a message for preparing a press

note on his Whatsapp, but conveniently did not mention the time of

sending such message. 45. All the important documents have been withheld by the Police,

and even on the directions of the Court, only the file pertaining to the

suspension of the respondent no. 3 and some copies of different

orders were sent, some of which have been reproduced in this order.

Be that as it may be. 46. From the file of suspension of the respondent no. 3, it appears

that the respondent no.3 was suspended by order dated 14-8-2020.

Thereafter, the respondent no.3 moved an application for revocation

of his suspension on 28-8-2020, and on the very same day, his

suspension order was revoked. It is not out of place to mention here,

that on 14-8-2020, a report was submitted by Additional

Superintendent of Police, City (Center), Gwalior, that the petitioner

was unlawfully detained in police station Bahodapur. Thereafter on

3-10-2020, a show cause notice was issued to respondent no. 3. It is

not out of place to mention here that the notices of this petition were

issued for the first time, by this Court on 8-9-2020. Thus, it is clear

that after taking an application from the respondent no.3 for

revocation of his suspension, the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior

revoked his suspension on the very same day and the chapter was

closed. However, only after receiving the notice from this Court, the

first show cause notice was given to the respondent no. 3 on 3-10-

2020 and accordingly, a fine of Rs. 5000 was imposed by order dated

14-10-2020, i.e., just two days prior to filing of first compliance

report. Thus, it is clear that the police department has not taken the 45 misdeeds of the respondents no. 3 to 5 with all seriousness and took

the matter as if the police has a right to tarnish the privacy/personal

liberty/reputation of any citizen at their sweet will. Thus, the

Advocate General of the State was right in making a statement

before this Court on 2-11-2020, that the matter has been handled in

a most causal manner and he may be granted time to reconsider

the steps taken against the respondents no. 3 to 5. Thus, it is clear

that even the Advocate General of the State was not satisfied with

the manner in which the police authorities had handled the case

against the respondents no. 3 to 5. Be that as it may. 47. The Counsel for the respondent no. 5 submitted that all the

police personals which are visible in the photograph have not been

proceeded against by the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior and he

has deliberately adopted the policy of pick and choose, and the

respondent no.5 has been made a scapegoat. In reply, it is submitted

by Shri Amit Sanghi, Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, that action

was taken on the basis of the Preliminary Enquiry Report in which it

was concluded that the respondents no. 3 and 5 are responsible for

unlawful custody. 48. Considered the submissions made by the Counsel for the

respondent no. 5 and Shri Amit Sanghi, S.P., Gwalior. In the

preliminary enquiry report, the enquiry officer has not considered the

role played by all other team members who are visible in the

photograph. Therefore, the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior is 46 directed to conduct an enquiry with regard to the role of all other

police personals who were the members of the team, which had

illegally apprehended the petitioner and are visible in the Photograph

and take action accordingly. 49. The Supreme Court in the case of Arnab Manorajan

Goswami Vs. State of Maharashtra, by Judgment dated 27-11-

2020 passed in Criminal Appeal No. 742 of 2020 has held as under : In emphasising that the High Court must exercise this
 power with a sense of restraint, the decisions of this
 Court are founded on the basic principle that the due
 enforcement of criminal law should not be obstructed
 by the accused taking recourse to artifices and
 strategies. The public interest in ensuring the due
 investigation of crime is protected by ensuring that
 the inherent power of the High Court is exercised
 with caution. That indeed is one - and a significant -
 end of the spectrum. The other end of the spectrum is
 equally important: the recognition by Section 482 of
 the power inhering in the High Court to prevent the
 abuse of process or to secure the ends of justice is a
 valuable safeguard for protecting liberty. The Code of
 Criminal Procedure of 1898 was enacted by a 47 legislature which was not subject to constitutional
 rights and limitations; yet it recognized the inherent
 power in Section 561A. Post Independence, the
 recognition by Parliament of the inherent power of
 the High Court must be construed as an aid to
 preserve the constitutional value of liberty. The writ
 of liberty runs through the fabric of the Constitution.
 The need to ensure the fair investigation of crime is
 undoubtedly important in itself, because it protects at
 one level the rights of the victim and, at a more
 fundamental level, the societal interest in ensuring
 that crime is investigated and dealt with in
 accordance with law. On the other hand, the misuse of
 the criminal law is a matter of which the High Court
 and the lower Courts in this country must be
 alive. ....................Whether the appellant has
 established a case for quashing the FIR is something
 on which the High Court will take a final view when
 the proceedings are listed before it but we are clearly
 of the view that in failing to make even a prima facie
 evaluation of the FIR, the High Court abdicated its
 constitutional duty and function as a protector of
 liberty. Courts must be alive to the need to safeguard
 the public interest in ensuring that the due
 enforcement of criminal law is not obstructed. The
 fair investigation of crime is an aid to it. Equally it is
 the duty of courts across the spectrum - the district
 judiciary, the High Courts and the Supreme Court - to
 ensure that the criminal law does not become a
 weapon for the selective harassment of citizens.
 Courts should be alive to both ends of the spectrum -
 the need to ensure the proper enforcement of criminal
 law on the one hand and the need, on the other, of
 ensuring that the law does not become a ruse for
 targeted harassment. Liberty across human eras is as
 tenuous as tenuous can be. Liberty survives by the
 vigilance of her citizens, on the cacophony of the
 media and in the dusty corridors of courts alive to the
 rule of (and not by) law. Yet, much too often, liberty
 is a casualty when one of these components is found
 wanting. 50. As already held in previous paragraph that even according to

respondents no.1 and 2, the petitioner was arrested but still memo of

arrest was not prepared. The Supreme Court in the case of D.K. Basu 48 Vs. State of W.B. reported in AIR 1997 SC 610 has held under : The particulars of all such police personnel who handle
 interrogation of the arrestee must be recorded in a register.
 (2) That the police officer carrying out the arrest of the arrestee
 shall prepare a memo of arrest at the time of arrest and such
 memo shall be attested by at least one witness, who may either
 be a member of the family of the arrestee or a respectable
 person of the locality from where the arrest is made. It shall
 also be countersigned by the arrestee and shall contain the time
 and date of arrest. (3) A person who has been arrested or detained and is being
 held in custody in a police station or interrogation centre or
 other lock-up, shall be entitled to have one friend or relative or
 other person known to him or having interest in his welfare
 being informed, as soon as practicable, that he has been
 arrested and is being detained at the particular place, unless the
 attesting witness of the memo of arrest is himself such a friend
 or a relative of the arrestee. (4) The time, place of arrest and venue of custody of an
 arrestee must be notified by the police where the next friend or
 relative of the arrestee lives outside the district or town through
 the Legal Aid Organisation in the District and the police station
 of the area concerned telegraphically within a period of 8 to 12
 hours after the arrest. (5) The person arrested must be made aware of this right to
 have someone informed of his arrest or detention as soon as he
 is put under arrest or is detained. (6) An entry must be made in the diary at the place of detention
 regarding the arrest of the person which shall also disclose the
 name of the next friend of the person who has been informed
 of the arrest and the names and particulars of the police
 officials in whose custody the arrestee is. (7) The arrestee should, where he so requests, be also
 examined at the time of his arrest and major and minor injuries,
 if any present on his/her body, must be recorded at that time.
 The "Inspection Memo" must be signed both by the arrestee
 and the police officer effecting the arrest and its copy provided
 to the arrestee. (8) The arrestee should be subjected to medical examination by 49 a trained doctor every 48 hours during his detention in custody
 by a doctor on the panel of approved doctors appointed by
 Director, Health Services of the State or Union Territory
 concerned. Director, Health Services should prepare such a
 panel for all tehsils and districts as well. (9) Copies of all the documents including the memo of arrest , referred to above , should be sent to the Illaqa Magistrate for
 his record. (10) The arrestee may be permitted to meet his lawyer during
 interrogation, though not throughout the interrogation.
 (11) A police control room should be provided at all district
 and State headquarters, where information regarding the arrest
 and the place of custody of the arrestee shall be communicated
 by the officer causing the arrest, within 12 hours of effecting
 the arrest and at the police control room it should be displayed
 on a conspicuous notice board. 36. Failure to comply with the requirements hereinabove
 mentioned shall apart from rendering the official
 concerned liable for departmental action, also render him
 liable to be punished for contempt of court and the
 proceedings for contempt of court may be instituted in any
 High Court of the country, having territorial jurisdiction
 over the matter. 51. Thus, it is clear that since the petitioner had not handed over

the vacant possession of the shop to the landlady, as per his

undertaking given by him on 25-7-2020 in police station Bahodapur,

Distt. Gwalior, therefore, he was taken in unlawful custody on 14-8-

2020 by the respondents no. 3 and 5 and was brought to the police

station Bahodapur at 13:56 and was released at 21:37 only after the

intervention of the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior. Further, after

taking him in custody, he was not formally arrested and no attempt

was made by the respondents no. 3 and 5 to verify that whether the

petitioner is the same person against whom a reward of Rs. 5000 has

been declared by the S.P., Gwalior or not, specifically when the

residential address of the petitioner is different. Further, without 50 formally arresting him, the respondents no. 3 and 5 projected in the

media (Print as well as Social) that the petitioner is a "an accused

with reward of Rs. 5000" and has been arrested. Further even after

release of the petitioner from the Police Station, no attempts were

made to withdraw the press release from Print Media, and it was

prominently published in the news paper on the next day, that the

petitioner is a criminal and has been arrested. Thus, it is held that the

fundamental right of the petitioner as enshrined under Article 21 of

the Constitution of India has been deliberately and unfortunately with

malafide intentions was grossly violated by the respondents no. 3 and 5. 52. Thus, the present case is a glaring example of police atrocities

and gross violation of directions issued by the Supreme Court in the

case of D.K. Basu (1997)( Supra). Not a single direction given by

the Supreme Court in the case of D.K. Basu (1997) (Supra) was

followed. 53. Quantum of Compensation 54. This Court by order dated 2-11-2020, has already held that in

case of violation of fundamental right of a citizen of India, this Court

can grant compensation. 55. The respondents no. 1 and 2 in their compliance report dated 9-

11-2020, have submitted that the quantum of compensation may be

decided by this Court. 56. The Petitioner has filed a copy of the application dated 18-8- 51 2020, which was given to the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior in

which it has been pleaded by the petitioner that because of forcible

taking out his belongings from the shop, he has suffered a monetary

loss of Rs. 3 Lacs. Thus, it is directed that the respondent no. 1 shall

pay a compensation of Rs. 5 lacs to the petitioner i.e., Rs. 2 lacs for

causing damage during forcible taking out of his belongings from his

shop on 25-7-2020 and Rs. 3 lacs for grossly violating the

fundamental right of the petitioner. The compensation of Rs. 5 lacs

be paid by respondent no.1, within a period of one month from today.

The compensation amount, so paid to the petitioner shall be

recovered by the respondent no.1 from the salary/dues/suspension

allowance of the respondents no. 3, 4 and 5. An amount of Rs. 3 lacs

shall be recovered from the respondent no.3, an amount of Rs. 1 lacs

each shall be recovered from the respondent no. 4 and 5. The

respondent no. 2 is directed to ensure the compliance of payment of

compensation and shall file the acknowledgment of receipt of

compensation within a period of 35 days from today before the

Principal Registrar of this Court. The Petitioner is further granted

liberty that if he so desires, then he can file a civil suit for recovery of

more compensation, and in that case , the compensation of Rs. 2 lacs

awarded towards loss shall be adjustable. 57. Whether the act of respondents no. 3 to 5 amounts to

criminal act or not and whether they are liable to be prosecuted

under different provisions of Indian Penal Code , as well as 52 Prevention of Corruption Act ? 58. It is submitted by the Superintendent of Police, that forcible

eviction of a person from the tenanted premises is not the duty of the

police and as per the preliminary enquiry report, it was found that the

respondents no. 4 and 5 are prima facie guilty of forcibly evicting the

petitioner from his shop. Further the respondent no.3 has also

admitted in his return that vacating property is a civil dispute, and

police has no jurisdiction. It is also evident from the departmental

charge sheet, that a charge of forcible eviction of the petitioner from

his shop has been leveled. Further, from the documents relied upon

by the respondents no. 3 and 4 as well as Whatsapp text message of

Reserved Inspector Shri Arvind Dangi, it is also clear that the

petitioner was forcibly evicted by the landlady with the active help of

the respondents no. 3 to 5. This act of respondents no. 3 to 5 would

certainly amount to criminal act. Further, the unlawful detention of

the petitioner on 14-8-2020 would also be a criminal act. However, it

is submitted by Shri Amit Sanghi, Superintendent of Police, Gwalior

that since, a deeper enquiry was required, therefore, no F.I.R. has

been registered against the respondents no. 3 to 5. 59. Further, it is submitted by the Additional Advocate General,

that the discretion of the Station House Officer, not to lodge the FIR

cannot be taken away and this Court cannot direct for lodging the

F.I.R. This submission is directly in conflict with the judgment

passed by the Supreme Court in the case of Lalita Kumari Vs. State 53 of U.P. , reported in (2014) 2 SCC 1. 60. The Supreme Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (Supra) has

held that where the complaint discloses the commission of cognizable

offence, then the police officer is under obligation to register the

F.I.R. However, if the police officer so desires, may also conduct a

preliminary enquiry before lodging the F.I.R. and preliminary enquiry

should be completed within a period of seven days. In the case of Lalita Kumari (Supra) it has been held as under : Action must be taken against erring officers who do
 not register the FIR if information received by him
 discloses a cognizable offence. 120.5. The scope of preliminary inquiry is not to
 verify the veracity or otherwise of the information
 received but only to ascertain whether the information
 reveals any cognizable offence. 120.6. As to what type and in which cases preliminary
 inquiry is to be conducted will depend on the facts
 and circumstances of each case. The category of cases
 in which preliminary inquiry may be made are as
 under: The aforesaid are only illustrations and not exhaustive
 of all conditions which may warrant preliminary
 inquiry. 120.7. While ensuring and protecting the rights of the
 accused and the complainant, a preliminary inquiry
 should be made time-bound and in any case it should
 not exceed 7 days. The fact of such delay and the
 causes of it must be reflected in the General Diary
 entry. 120.8. Since the General Diary/Station Diary/Daily
 Diary is the record of all information received in a
 police station, we direct that all information relating to
 cognizable offences, whether resulting in registration
 of FIR or leading to an inquiry, must be mandatorily
 and meticulously reflected in the said diary and the
 decision to conduct a preliminary inquiry must also be
 reflected, as mentioned above. 61. Thus, the stand taken by Superintendent of Police, Gwalior,

that unless and until a deeper enquiry into the matter is conducted,

the FIR could not have been lodged against the respondents no. 3 to 5

is incorrect. When a complaint discloses commission of cognizable

offence, then in some cases, a preliminary enquiry may be conducted.

In this Case, preliminary enquiries were conducted regarding incident

dated 25-7-2020 and 14-8-2020 and in both the preliminary

enquiries, it was found that the respondents no. 3 to 5 are prima

facie guilty. Thus, in the light of the judgment passed by Supreme

Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (Supra), nothing more was 55 required to be done by the S.H.O., Police Station Bahodapur, Distt.

Gwalior before lodging a F.I.R. against the respondents no. 3 to 5.

Further more, the contention of the Counsel for the State that the

discretion of the police officer, not to lodge the FIR cannot be taken

away by the Court is concerned, it is palpably misconceived and

contrary to the law of Land. In the case of Lalita Kumari (Supra) it

has been held that registration of FIR under Section 154 of Cr.P.C. is

mandatory, where the information discloses commission of

cognizable offence. 62. It is further submitted by the Counsel for the State that so far as

the incident dated 14-8-2020 is concerned, the act of the respondents

no. 3 and 5 would be covered by Section 76 of Indian Penal Code,

therefore, they cannot be prosecuted. By relying on illustration (b) of

Section 76 of Penal Code, it is submitted that since, the respondents

no. 3 and 5 had taken the petitioner in custody under a belief, that he

is the same person, against whom a reward of Rs. 5000 has been

declared and is wanted in a criminal case, therefore, even if they have

committed a mistake, but still, it cannot be said that they have

committed any offence. 63. Heard Shri M.P.S. Raghuvanshi, Additional Advocate General

for the State. 64. Section 76 of Indian Penal Code reads as under : Illustrations (a) A, a soldier, fires on a mob by the order of his
 superior officer, in conformity with the commands of
 the law. A has committed no offence. (b) A, an officer of a Court of Justice, being ordered by
 that court to arrest Y, and, after due enquiry, believing
 Z to be Y, arrests Z. A has committed no offence. 65. For application of Section 76 of Penal Code, the following

circumstances must exist : 66. However, if the present case is considered, then none of the

above mentioned ingredients are present. Neither the respondents no.

3 and 5 are the officer of a Court of Justice, nor there is any order of

the Court. Further, admittedly no enquiry was done by the

respondents no. 3 and 5 before apprehending the petitioner, nor there

was any bonafide belief on their part to do so. 67. The present case is a glaring example of gross misuse of police

uniform. As already pointed out, that although the Superintendent of

Police, Gwalior acted promptly after receiving an information of

unlawful detention of the petitioner, and did every thing to protect the

fundamental rights of the petitioner, but thereafter, all efforts have

been made to protect the respondents no. 3 to 5, inspite of clear 57 findings by the enquiry officers themselves, that the respondents no. 3

to 5 have acted in an illegal manner. Be that as it may. Under these

compelling circumstances, this Court cannot ignore its constitutional

duty by relegating the petitioner to file complaint against the

respondents no. 3 to 5, therefore, the Superintendent of Police,

Special Police Establishment (Lokayukt) Gwalior is directed to lodge

a F.I.R. against the respondent no. 3 to 5 for their criminal acts

committed in their official uniform, including offence under Sections

294 , 323 , 341 , 379 , 380 , 424 , 452 , 34 of I.P.C. and under Section 7 , 7-A of

Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Further, the S.P.E. (Lokayukt)

shall be free to implicate any other person, who appears to have

committed offence, either under any provision of I.P.C . or under any

provision of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , including under Section 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act. Let this exercise be

done within a period of fifteen days from today and the copy of

the FIR should be submitted before the Principal Registrar of this

Court, within a period of 16 days from today. 68. Before concluding the order, this Court thinks it apposite to

point out hostile attitude of the Police Department in protecting the

life and liberty of the citizens of India. This Court by order dated 2-

11-2020, had quashed a part of circular dated 2-1-2014 issued by the

Director General of Police and had quashed the provisions by which

the police was authorized to share the personal information and

photographs of accused and victims (covered or uncovered) with the 58 media. Further patrolling of accused in general public was also held

to be violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, and

accordingly, the Director General of Police, Bhopal, was directed to

issue necessary instructions in this regard. During the course of

arguments, it was pointed by Shri M.P.S. Raghuvanshi, that circular

dated 7-11-2020 has been issued, and when he was directed to point

out that whether there is any direction to the police personals, not to

publically parade the accused persons in general public, then he

prayed that since it is already 1:30 P.M., therefore, he would reply

after tea break. Accordingly after tea break it was submitted by Shri

M.P.S. Raghuvanshi, Add. Advocate General, that he has taken

instructions, and in fact clause 7 of circular dated 7-11-2020

specifically provides that the accused persons should not be produced

before the Media, and that would cover parading in General Public

also. 69. Clause 7 of circular dated 7-11-2020 reads as under : 70. Unfortunately, the State Police, is still not ready to realize the

importance of liberty of the citizen of India. When this Court had

restrained the police from parading the accused persons in general

public, then by no stretch of imagination, the non-parading of accused

in general public would be covered by clause 7 of Circular dated 7-

11-2020. Further, Shri M.P.S. Raghuvanshi, Add. Advocate General

submitted that it has come to the notice of the Police Headquarters, 59 that inspite of the fact that parading of accused persons in general

public has been held to be violative of Article 21 of the Constitution,

still in some cities of State of Madhya Pradesh like Ujjain etc, such

incidents have taken place and accused persons were paraded in

general public, and submitted that Police Headquarter will take

action. Since, this submission made by Shri M.P.S. Raghuvanshi,

Add. Advocate General is not the subject-matter of this Case,

therefore, it is left to the wisdom of the Police Department. However,

Shri M.P.S. Raghuvanshi, Additional Advocate General submitted

that a specific circular restraining the police from parading the

accused persons in general public shall be issued and accordingly,

after the conclusion of hearing, he supplied a copy of order dated 26-

11-2020 issued by the Police Headquarters, directing that no parading

shall be done in general public. The said order dated 26-11-2020 is

taken on record. 71. With aforesaid observations, this petition is Allowed, with cost

of Rs. 20,000/- payable jointly by respondents no. 3 to 5 to the

petitioner within 15 days from today. They shall also file a copy of

acknowledgment of receipt before the Principal Registrar of this

Court, within a period of 16 days from today. Let a copy of this order be sent to Superintendent of Police,

Special Police Establishment (Lokayukt), Gwalior immediately

for necessary action and compliance. G.S. Ahluwalia
 Judge Digitally signed by ARUN KUMAR MISHRA ARUN KUMAR MISHRA
 DN: c=IN, o=HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH BENCH GWALIOR, ou=HIGH COURT OF MADHYA
 PRADESH BENCH GWALIOR, postalCode=474011, st=Madhya Pradesh,
 2.5.4.20=51f931b13b82ad5df5aefb2200fa24abe6935164546dbcd5c17c43c78b5ee233, cn=ARUN KUMAR
 MISHRA
 Date: 2020.12.02 17:43:45 +05'30'