respondent, invoking the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.

 3 The institution of the petition is based on the allegation that on 25 February 2023 when the

 Union Minister of State for Home Affairs was visiting his Constituency (Dinhata Parliamentary

 Constituency), there was an incident in the course of which his car and convoy were attacked.

 The allegation is that this was done at the behest of the workers of the Trinamool Congress

 Party and the police took no action against the perpetrators.

 4 While invoking the jurisdiction of the High Court, the first respondent sought a transfer

 of the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation 1. After adverting to the Signature Not Verified decisions of this Court governing the exercise of the exceptional power to transfer an Digitally signed by Manish Issrani Date: 2023.04.18 09:43:13 IST Reason: investigation to the CBI, the High Court took note of an affidavit which was filed by

 1 “CBI” 2 the Superintendent of Police, Coochbehar, West Bengal. The High Court was of the view that

 though the report was filed at the initial stage of investigation, the averments were suggestive

 of the fact that a “final conclusion has been drawn by the State police authorities”.

5 The High Court noted that the incident took place on 25 February 2023, but, according to the

 report submitted by the Superintendent of Police, cases were registered on 26 and 27

 February 2023 and the report before it, in the form of an affidavit, was dated 3 March 2023,

 when the investigation was at a preliminary stage. 6 Based on the averments in the affidavit, the High Court held that the State police authorities

 were unlikely to conduct a fair investigation in the matter. The High Court has buttressed this

 conclusion by observing that: Inspector of the CISF went to lodge a complaint on 26 February 2023, the police

 personnel of Coochbehar District had declined to do so; (iii) The incident was of a serious nature involving an attack on the convoy of the

 Union Minister of State for Home Affairs; and (iv) Though the complaint mentioned 30 offenders, no prompt action was reflected to

 have been taken against them. 2 “CISF” 3 7 The High Court was hence of the view that the State police authorities were unlikely to

 investigate the allegations against the workers of the ruling party in the State where, on the

 other side, they were pitted against the workers of the principal opposition party in West

 Bengal. The High Court has noticed that two FIRs were registered on 26 and 27 February

 2023 and it emerged in the course of arguments that PS Case No 71 of 2023 was also

 registered. Noting that different yardsticks were applied by the State police authorities while

 taking action against the workers of two different political parties, the High Court observed

 that the investigation was “not headed in the right direction”. On the above premises, the

 High Court has transferred the investigation to the CBI.

8 We have heard Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan, senior counsel

 appearing on behalf of the appellant-State of West Bengal and Mr P S Patwalia, senior

 counsel appearing on behalf of the first respondent. 9 The principal submission which has been urged on behalf of the appellants is that while the

 High Court has selectively extracted from the affidavit, which was filed by the Superintendent

 of Police, the judgment has missed certain crucial aspects of the status report which indicated

 that the State police authorities were investigating into the matter. In furtherance of this

 submission, reliance has been placed on an additional affidavit which has been filed before

 this Court during the course of the proceedings. Moreover, it was urged that the High Court

 was moved by the first respondent, who is a Member of the Legislative Assembly and the

 Leader of the Opposition and there was no reason or justification for the High Court in a public

 interest litigation, thus filed, to transfer the investigation to the CBI having regard to the settled

 parameters in that regard. 10 Responding to the above submissions, which have been urged on behalf of the petitioner by

 Mr P S Patwalia, senior counsel appearing on behalf fo the first respondent urged that the

 High Court was entirely justified in transferring the investigation having due regard to the fact

 that: 11 In the course of the discussion, the High Court in Paragraph 16 of its judgment has adverted

 to certain extracts which were contained in the affidavit which was filed by the Superintendent

 of Police. 12 In order to analyze as to whether there is substance in the submission which has been urged

 on behalf of the appellants, that the High Court has not considered other aspects of the same

 affidavit, we have, with the assistance of the counsel, perused the entirety of the affidavit filed

 before the High Court. 3 “BJP” 5 13 The affidavit which was filed by the Additional Superintendent of Police (HQ), Coochbehar

 District Police contains a narration of the alleged incident and adverts to the fact that the

 Police were in possession of Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) and on-spot video recordings

 of the incident. The affidavit specifically sets out the steps which were taken by the police

 authorities. The relevant part of the affidavit which deals with the first FIR is extracted below: ii) 7 Police personnel sustained injuries while bringing Law and order
 under control. The Hospital bed tickets (BHT) and injury reports have
 been collected and attached with the case docket. iii) The Police also seized fire arms, 06 rounds, 2 vehicles from which
 firearms had been recovered (these 2 vehicles were part of the VIP
 convoy-pictures attached herewith), 6 damaged bikes from the PO,
 few wooden lathis, 4 arrows, 2 sharp cutting weapons, chips/stones
 from the place of occurrence and few broken glasses of damaged
 police vehicle and of one damaged car parked near TMC Burirhat
 party office which was vandalized by the accused persons. iv) Command certificates (CC) for the movement of additional force from
 police line have been collected and attached in the case docket. 9
 empty shells of fired stun grenades have been seized. v) Judicial Statements (u/s 164 CrPC ) have been collected for two eye- witnesses namely Jaykant Barman, s/o Monvola Barman and Sanjay
 Barman, s/o lt. Harimohanta Barman regarding the incident. 6 vi) Statements u/s 161 CrPC have also been collected from nine eye
 witnesses and attached in case docket. vii) Requisition have been sent for CDR (Call data records) of 19 accused
 persons in order to fix up their whereabouts on and after the incidence. viii) CCTV footage of Harimohan filling station (from where the convoy took
 U-turn) has also been seized and attached with case docket with 65B
 IEA certificate. ix) Few videos and pictures of the incident at PO have been seized and
 attached with the case docket. x) Many of the accused persons have been identified who are
 absconding and raids are being made on regular basis to make the
 necessary arrests. 14 Apart from the above extract, the affidavit which was filed before the High Court indicates that

 on 27 February 2023 based on the complaint of the CISF, another case was registered

 against 30 people namely, Sahebganj PS Case No 63 of 2023 under Sections

 143 / 147 / 148 / 149 / 186 / 307 / 427 / 34 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 read with Sections 25(I-

 A)/27 of the Arms Act 1959. 15 The steps which were taken in pursuance of the above FIR were extracted in the affidavit filed

 before the High Court in the following terms: 16 The above material was placed before the High Court in the affidavit which was filed before it. The High Court was also apprised of the fact that 21 arrests have been made by the Police in

 the suo moto case registered by the Sahebganj Police Station (PS Case No 63 of 2023) and

 three arrests in respect of the case which was registered on the basis of the complaint given

 by the CISF. Moreover, it was stated that six cases of house damage and ransacking were

 registered on 26 and 27 February 2023 on the basis of the complaints received by the

 supporters of the BJP and in those cases 5 accused persons have been arrested. 8 17 The High Court has not noticed any of the above facets in the course of its judgment.

18 During the pendency of these proceedings, an additional affidavit has been filed by the

 Additional Superintendent of Police(HQ), Coochbehar District Police, in which further material

 has been placed in the record. Since this material has been placed after the decision of the

 High Court, we are not, at this stage, referring in any detail to the contents of the affidavit.

 However, the narration which is set out in the earlier part of the judgment would have a

 bearing on the fact that the High Court did not apply its mind to the entirety of the material

 which was produced before it by the appellants. The material would have a bearing on

 whether a proper investigation was being conducted. 20 In this view of the matter, we are of the considered opinion that it would be appropriate to

 remit the proceedings back to the High Court to apply its mind afresh to the material which

 has been placed in the record including the further material which has been placed on

 affidavit placed before this Court. The State of West Bengal is at liberty to place the additional

 affidavit filed in this Court, before the High Court. Since the first respondent has not had the

 opportunity of responding to the additional affidavit which was tendered before this Court by

 the appellants, it may be open to the first respondent to deal with its contents by filing a

 further affidavit before the High Court. 21 The High Court shall take a fresh view on whether the investigation by the State police

 authorities has been fair and proper and if not, whether a case has been made out for transfer

 of the investigation to the CBI. 22 The objection of the appellants with regard to the maintainability of the petition at the behest

 of the first respondent is left open for adjudication by the High Court. 9 23 For the reasons which we have indicated, we allow the appeal and set aside the impugned

 order dated 28 March 2023. WPA(P) No 82 of 2023 be restored to the file of the High Court at

 Calcutta for disposal afresh. 24 Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of. ………………………………………………. CJI
 [Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

 ………………………………………………... J. [Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha]

 ………………………………………………… J. [J B Pardiwala]

New Delhi; April 13, 2023 -MI- Petition for Special Leave to Appeal(Crl.) No. 4430/2023

(Arising out of impugned final judgment and order dated 28-03-2023
in WPA(P) No. 82/2023 passed by the High Court at Calcutta)

THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL & ORS. Petitioner(s)

 VERSUS

SUVENDU ADHIKARI & ORS. Respondent(s)

(FOR ADMISSION and I.R. and IA No.70636/2023-EXEMPTION FROM FILING
C/C OF THE IMPUGNED JUDGMENT and IA No.70637/2023-EXEMPTION FROM
FILING O.T. and IA No.71311/2023-PERMISSION TO FILE ADDITIONAL
DOCUMENTS/FACTS/ANNEXURES )

Date : 13-04-2023 This petition was called on for hearing today.

CORAM :