1. The present application is filed challenging the order dated
 16.07.2025 (hereafter 'impugned order') passed by the learned
 Additional Sessions Judge ('ASJ'), Saket Courts, New Delhi in the case
 arising out of FIR No. 278/2025 ('FIR') dated 25.06.2025 registered at
 Police Station Neb Sarai for offences under Sections 376 / 506 / 323 / 34 of
 the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC '), whereby Respondent No.2 was
 granted pre-arrest bail. 2. Briefly stated, the FIR was registered on a complaint given by the
 prosecutrix/ applicant. The prosecutrix is a practicing advocate and
 claims to have come in contact with Respondent No. 2 who is also an
 advocate about 5 years ago through her friend namely Ashish.
 Respondent No. 2 is stated to be Ashish's uncle. It is alleged that
 thereafter, Respondent No. 2 procured the number of the prosecutrix
 and started talking to the prosecutrix. It is alleged that around that time,
 the prosecutrix went to Respondent No. 2's house for a party whereafter
 Respondent No. 2 forcibly established physical relations with the
 prosecutrix and thereafter apologized to her and assured to marry her
 stating that he was a widower. It is alleged that Respondent No. 2
 continued to establish physical relations with the prosecutrix by
 emotionally blackmailing her. It is alleged that thereafter in May, 2025,
 the prosecutrix got pregnant out of the said relationship. The prosecutrix
 is stated to be about 27 years of age and Respondent No. 2 is stated to
 be about 51 years of age. 3. It is alleged that thereafter on 23.06.2025, Respondent No. 2 took
 the prosecutrix to Jupiter Hospital for the purpose of termination of her
 pregnancy. It is alleged that thereafter, a quarrel ensued between the
 prosecutrix and Respondent No. 2, and the prosecutrix returned to her
 residence post which within a span of 10-15 minutes, she received a call
 from Respondent No. 2 asking her to meet him at Country Club to
 discuss the situation. It is alleged that thereafter, in the club, the
 prosecutrix met co-accused Suhani Dahiya and Narain (friends of
 Respondent No. 2) and Respondent No. 2. It is alleged that heated
 arguments took place between them in the midst of which Respondent
 No. 2 grabbed the throat of the prosecutrix and co-accused Suhani
 Dahiya took away the mobile phone of the prosecutrix. It is alleged that
 during the course of the scuffle, Respondent No. 2 caught the
 prosecutrix by her hair and co-accused Suhani Dahiya threw ceramic
 plates at the prosecutrix as a consequence of which the prosecutrix
 sustained injuries. It is also alleged that co-accused Narain grabbed the
 prosecutrix's breast and thereafter all the accused persons ran away. 4. During the course of the investigation, the place of the incident,
 that is, Country Club, Sainik Farms, Neb Sarai was visited and the
 available CCTV footage was procured and analysed. Upon the analysis
 of the CCTV footage, the prosecutrix and Respondent No. 2 were seen
 entering and exiting the tent inside the Country Club in Neb Sarai. The
 prosecutrix was heard shouting in the said CCTV footage. During
 further investigation, the exhibits of the termination of pregnancy of the Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 3 of 28 19:53:12 prosecutrix were taken into possession and the same were sent for FSL
 examination. 5. The statement of the prosecutrix under Section 183 of the BNSS
 [erstwhile Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973] was
 recorded on 03.07.2025. 6. In the meantime, Respondent No. 2 filed an application under Section 482 of the BNSS before the learned Court of Sessions, Saket
 Courts seeking pre-arrest bail. Respondent No. 2 was granted interim
 protection on certain conditions being that he would join the
 investigation with the IO on that day itself, that is, on 28.06.2025 and
 further as and when required by the IO. Respondent No. 2 was also
 directed not to contact with the witnesses of the case or the victim in
 any manner. Further, by the impugned order, Respondent No. 2 was
 granted pre-arrest bail by the learned ASJ. By order dated 16.07.2025,
 it was noted that the prosecutrix and Respondent No. 2 had come in
 contact in the year 2020 and were in a relationship for around 05 years.
 It was noted that the prosecutrix neither made any complaint nor gave
 any information to her family members about the first incident of sexual
 assault. It was noted that the prosecutrix used to visit the house of
 Respondent No. 2 and also worked with him as an intern. It was
 consequently noted that it appeared to be improbable that the
 prosecutrix was not aware about the marital status of Respondent No. 2. The learned ASJ further noted that no reasonable explanation was
 provided for the delay in recording the statement under Section 180 of Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 4 of 28 19:53:12 the BNSS. Consequently, considering that Respondent No. 2 is a
 practising advocate and had duly joined and cooperated in the
 investigation during the interim protection, the learned ASJ granted pre-
 arrest bail to Respondent No. 2 by the impugned order. 7. The order dated 16.07.2025 granting pre-arrest bail to
 Respondent No. 2 was then challenged before this Court. On
 29.07.2025, notice was issued in the present case. It was noted that as
 per the submission of the learned counsel for the prosecutrix, threats
 were being received even after the passing of the impugned order. On
 that occasion, this Court noted that the prosecutrix was at liberty to file
 appropriate complaint to the concerned Investigating Officer who shall
 take a prompt action in accordance with law. 8. On the next date of hearing, that is, on 26.08.2025, this Court
 noted that the prosecutrix sought to rely upon certain conversations
 which had not been placed on record on account of the sensitivity
 involved in the present case. On 27.08.2025, the learned counsel for the
 prosecutrix handed over a pen drive containing certain conversations
 which, as contended, would be relevant for the purpose of the present
 proceedings. Considering the gravity of the allegations and the
 sensitivity of the case, the pen drive was directed to be kept in a sealed
 cover by the Registry. The conversations contained in the pen drive
 were heard in the Chamber. 9. Thereafter, on 29.08.2025, this Court noted that the allegations
 made by the prosecutrix are serious in nature, and that the conversation,
 at this stage, prima facie indicated that the persons involved in the
 conversation tried to influence the prosecutrix. This Court, considering
 that further investigation in regard to the conversation would have a
 bearing on the adjudication of the present case, handed over the
 pendrive to the Investigating Officer in Court, and directed the
 Investigating Officer to enquire into the said aspect. Status report was
 also directed to be filed. 10. On 17.09.2025, status report and three yellow envelopes were
 handed over in Court. The three yellow envelopes contained: a) SDR +
 CDR; b) Transcripts in Hindi Folder, and c) Roman Transcript Folder.
 Envelopes (b) and (c) contained the transcripts of the audio files found
 on the pendrive of the prosecutrix. On that occasion, the learned counsel
 for the prosecutrix submitted that certain messages had been conveyed
 by Respondent No. 2 after the filing of the present case which amounted
 to making efforts to pressurise the prosecutrix. In that regard, an
 updated status report was also directed to be filed. As per the same
 (Status Report - 2), the prosecutrix was examined in relation to the
 conveying of certain messages by Respondent No. 2 after the filing of
 the present case that amounted to making efforts to pressurise the
 prosecutrix. In that regard, the prosecutrix stated that on 03.08.2025 and
 04.08.2025, she viewed several WhatsApp status updates uploaded by Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 6 of 28 19:53:12 Respondent No. 2 and that the same were intended to exert pressure on
 her and influence her to withdraw her complaint. 11. Subsequently on 14.10.2025, the learned counsel for the
 prosecutrix stated that during the pendency of the present case as well,
 threats were extended to the prosecutrix at the behest of Respondent No.
 2 and in which regard a complaint had been given to the concerned
 Police Station. The State was directed to verify the said aspect and file
 an updated Status Report before the next date of hearing on 16.10.2025. 12. The learned counsel for the prosecutrix submitted that the
 impugned order granting pre-arrest bail to Respondent No. 2 is liable to
 be set aside. He submitted that unwarranted regard was given to the
 profession of Respondent No. 2 while considering his application for
 grant of pre-arrest bail. He submitted that the allegations against
 Respondent No. 2 are serious in nature and involve establishing forceful
 sexual relationship with the prosecutrix for the past many years. 13. He submitted that Respondent No. 2 maintains cordial
 relationships with certain Judicial Officers and that they have, prior to
 and even post the registration of the FIR, attempted to contact and
 influence the prosecutrix. He submitted that the prosecutrix was
 contacted by the learned Judicial Officer - 1 after the registration of FIR
 who advised the prosecutrix not to go for her medical examination. He
 submitted that the learned Judicial Officer - 1 on 27.06.2025 had
 offered monetary settlement to the prosecutrix to induce her to Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 7 of 28 19:53:12 compromise the matter with Respondent No. 2 and had also informed
 her that he had kept a sum of ₹30 lakhs to be paid to the prosecutrix. He
 submitted that the learned Judicial Officer - 1 also coerced the
 prosecutrix to dilute the case in her statement under Section 183 of the
 BNSS and told her that Respondent No. 2 will compensate her further
 if she dilutes the case. He submitted that several calls were thereafter
 exchanged between them which indicates that the prosecutrix was
 constantly being influenced. 14. He submitted that even though the prosecutrix refused to settle
 the matter with Respondent No. 2, the learned Judicial Officer - 1 and
 his personal staff kept calling the prosecutrix and pressurised her to not
 oppose the pre-arrest bail application of Respondent No. 2. He
 submitted that the personal staff of the learned Judicial Officer - 1
 constantly called the prosecutrix and informed her that the learned
 Judicial Officer - 1 had already talked with Respondent No. 2 and that
 the matter would be settled. 15. He submitted that the learned Judicial Officer - 2 also called the
 prosecutrix and coerced her to retract her allegations against
 Respondent No. 2 and falsely state in her statement under Section 183 of the BNSS that the FIR was lodged by mistake. He submitted that the
 said learned Judicial Officer - 2 also asked the prosecutrix to not oppose
 during the pre-arrest bail hearing of Respondent No. 2 listed for
 28.06.2025 whereby Respondent No. 2 was granted interim protection. 16. He submitted that the prosecutrix and her family members
 continuously got calls from Respondent No. 2 through the phone of his
 friend namely Khalil. He submitted that the CDRs of Respondent No. 2
 and his friend Khalil reflects that several attempts were made to contact
 the prosecutrix. He submitted that Respondent No.2 had made attempts
 to indirectly contact the prosecutrix and one 'Baba', who was a priest
 and known to the parties, had also contacted the prosecutrix and asked
 her to come to his Ashram. 17. He submitted that the prosecutrix was under immense pressure
 and was not feeling well as a consequence of which she could not appear
 in Court on 28.06.2025 when the pre-arrest bail application of
 Respondent No. 2 was listed and on which date Respondent No. 2 was
 granted interim protection. He submitted that on the said date itself
 when Respondent No.2 was granted interim protection, he immediately
 contacted the prosecutrix through the phone of his friend Khalil and
 threatened her. He submitted that a transcript of the said call has been
 appended to the present case. 18. He submitted that the Investigating Officer in his reply to the pre-
 arrest bail application of Respondent No. 2 had specifically stated that
 she had not verified the call recording of the threat given to the
 prosecutrix after interim protection was granted to Respondent No. 2,
 despite which, Respondent No. 2 was granted pre-arrest bail. 19. He submitted that post the filing of the present case, certain
 messages have been conveyed by the accused which amounts to making
 efforts to pressurise the prosecutrix. He submitted that Respondent No.
 2, during the pendency of the present case, uploaded certain WhatsApp
 status which was visible only to the prosecutrix thereby threatening and
 abusing her which clearly reflects Respondent No. 2's attempt to
 intimidate the prosecutrix. 20. The learned Senior counsel for Respondent No. 2 submitted that
 the impugned order is well reasoned and warrants no interference by
 this Court. He submitted that from a perusal of the FIR, it is borne out
 that the allegations levelled against Respondent No. 2 are vague and
 generic in nature and fails to even list down the dates on which the
 alleged offences were committed. He submitted that the FIR, in any
 event, was lodged with an unexplained delay inasmuch as the first
 alleged incident took place way back in the year 2020 and the FIR was
 registered much later on 25.06.2025. 21. He submitted that the parties, if at all, were involved in a
 prolonged and consensual relationship and the prosecutrix has failed to
 disclose the said fact in her complaint. He submitted that the entire
 reason why the prosecutrix has sought cancellation of the pre-arrest bail
 granted to Respondent No. 2 is that she claims that certain persons
 associated to Respondent No. 2 have been trying to threaten her. He
 submitted that it is the prosecutrix's case that she was constantly
 contacted and influenced by two learned Judicial Officers who Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 10 of 28 19:53:12 contacted her and asked her to hold her complaint and also pressurised
 her into giving her statement under Section 183 of the BNSS. He
 submitted that it is conspicuous from the record and the chats relied
 upon by the prosecutrix herself that it was in fact the prosecutrix who
 was constantly trying to connect with the concerned Judicial Officers. 22. He submitted that the FIR was registered on 25.06.2025,
 however, the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 183 of the
 BNSS was recorded much later on 03.07.2025. He submitted that a
 perusal of the annexures appended by the prosecutrix herself reveal that
 during the period between 25.06.2025 - 03.07.2025, the prosecutrix
 fervently made attempts to contact the learned Judicial Officer and
 made more than 27 calls to him. 23. He submitted that the transcript of the conversation between the
 prosecutrix and persons namely Abhay Pratap Singh and Khalil only
 bolster the case of Respondent No. 2 that the parties were in a
 consensual relationship and the complaint was given solely for the
 reason of extorting money from Respondent No. 2. He submitted that
 the prosecutrix had demanded a sum of ₹50 lakhs and as per her
 conversation with Abhay Pratap Singh, the prosecutrix herself admitted
 to have received a sum of ₹30 lakhs and that the complaint was filed
 since she was demanding a further sum of ₹20 lakhs. 24. He submitted that the prosecutrix has cherrypicked materials and
 produced the same before this Court stripping the same of its relevant Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 11 of 28 19:53:12 context. He submitted that if the prosecutrix's version were to be
 accepted that she was being pursued and threatened, there is no
 explanation why such an assertion was not made by her in her statement
 under Section 183 of the BNSS. 25. He submitted that the prosecutrix, post the registration of the FIR,
 also attempted to malign the reputation of Respondent No. 2 by creating
 a public scene outside the residence of Respondent No. 2. A copy of
 CCTV footage has also been placed on record to assert the same. 26. He submitted that insofar as the WhatsApp status as appended by
 the prosecutrix to contend that Respondent No. 2 was extending threats
 to her on WhatsApp is concerned, it cannot be said at this stage that the
 said statuses were uploaded by Respondent No. 2 himself as the
 documents only show the name of the contact as saved by the
 prosecutrix and not the phone number from which the said statuses were
 uploaded. He submitted that the same, at this stage, cannot be
 considered as conclusive and would require further investigation. 27. He submitted that bail once granted ought not to be cancelled in
 a mechanical manner without considering any supervening
 circumstances that warrant the cancellation of bail. He submitted that
 cancellation of pre-arrest bail is an extraordinary remedy and the same
 calls for very cogent and overwhelming material of misuse of liberty
 which is lacking in the present case. ANALYSIS Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 12 of 28 19:53:12 28. Before delving into the merits of the case, this Court considers it
 apposite to discuss the law in relation to cancellation of bail and setting
 aside of an order granting bail. While the former of the two is hinged
 upon conduct of the accused pursuant to arrest or surfacing of any
 adverse fact after grant of bail, the latter revolves around such infirmity
 in the order granting bail that renders the same unjust and unsustainable
 in law [Ref. Abdul Basit v. Mohd. Abdul Kadir Chaudhary : (2014) 10
 SCC 754]. In the present case, the prosecutrix has raised a challenge on
 both counts during the course of arguments. The Hon'ble Apex Court
 in Mahipal vs. Rajesh Kumar @ Polia and Anr : (2020) 2 SCC 118
 has observed as under : (emphasis supplied) 29. In the case of Deepak Yadav v. State of U.P. : (2022) 8 SCC 559,
 the Hon'ble Apex Court had observed that an order granting bail ought
 not to be disturbed by a superior court unless there are strong reasons to
 do so. Adverting to a catena of judgments, the Hon'ble Apex Court had
 summarised circumstances where bail can be cancelled even in absence
 of supervening circumstances. The relevant portion of the judgment is
 reproduced hereunder: 33. It is no doubt true that cancellation of bail cannot be
 limited to the occurrence of supervening circumstances.
 This Court certainly has the inherent powers and
 discretion to cancel the bail of an accused even in the
 absence of supervening circumstances. Following are the
 illustrative circumstances where the bail can be
 cancelled: (emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 15 of 28 19:53:12 30. In the case of Himanshu Sharma v. State of Madhya Pradesh : (emphasis supplied) 31. The prosecutrix has sought setting aside of the impugned order
 on the ground that the same is unsustainable in law. It is argued that the
 learned Trial Court gave undue deference to the profession of
 Respondent No.2 and granted bail even though Respondent No.2 kept
 contacting the prosecutrix. Furthermore, the prosecutrix has also
 challenged the bail granted to Respondent No. 2 on account of certain
 attempts at influencing her after the grant of bail. 32. Insofar as the cogency of the observations in the impugned order
 are concerned, a bare perusal of the same reflects that the learned Trial
 Court has duly applied its mind and aptly appreciated the facts of the Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 16 of 28 19:53:12 case as well as the law in relation to rape on the pretext of false promise
 of marriage. 33. The learned Trial Court was rightly weighed by the prima facie
 prolonged relationship between the parties for five years and relied
 upon certain judgments, including Mahesh Damu Khare v. State of
 Maharashtra & Anr. : 2024 SSC OnLine SC 3471 where the Hon'ble
 Apex Court had held that the duration of the relationship (nine years in
 that case ) had rendered the plea of consent on the basis of
 misconception of fact as implausible and diluted the criminal liability
 on account of no protest being registered by the victim over the years.
 The learned Trial Court also took note of the bank account statements
 adduced by Respondent No.2 to evidence that he regularly transferred
 money to the prosecutrix and observed that the IO had conceded that
 there is no pattern to the transactions to support the contention of the
 prosecutrix in relation to the transactions pertaining to internship
 renumeration. It was further observed that it appears to be improbable
 that the prosecutrix was unaware of the marital status of Respondent
 No.2 as she had been in contact with him for five years and she also
 used to frequent his house for the purpose of her internship. It was also
 noted that no obscene content was found on the phone of Respondent
 No.2 as had been alleged by the prosecutrix. It was also noted that the
 prosecutrix's statement under Section 180 of the BNSS had been
 recorded after ten days of registration of FIR and no reasonable
 explanation was provided for the same. 34. Whether the consent of the prosecutrix was vitiated by
 misconception of fact arising out of promise to marry would be a matter
 of trial, however, in the opinion of this Court, the aforesaid factors
 canvas a prima facie case in favour of Respondent No.2. 35. The learned Trial Court had assuaged itself that Respondent No.2
 was not a flight risk as he had deep roots in society and had taken note
 of Respondent No.2's profession as a lawyer only in this respect.
 Having already taken note of the extensive observations made by the
 learned Trial Court on the crucial aspects of the case, it is apparent that
 the learned Trial Court did not exercise its discretion in favour of
 Respondent No.2 only on account of the said parameter. 36. The learned Trial Court had also duly considered the argument
 of the prosecutrix that she had been contacted by Respondent No.2 after
 being granted interim protection. From the impugned order it appears
 that the IO had informed the learned Trial Court that no call recording
 was apparently given to evidence the said allegation, and on
 examination, it had been found that a common friend had called the
 prosecutrix to mediate the matter. It was noted that admittedly,
 Respondent No.2 had not called the prosecutrix directly. 37. At that stage, in the absence of any recording, the learned Trial
 Court proceeded to grant pre-arrest bail to Respondent No.2 by dealing
 with the apprehension of Respondent No.2 contacting the prosecutrix
 on the basis of the undertaking of the counsel appearing for the accused Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 18 of 28 19:53:12 that the accused shall not contact the prosecutrix. Out of an abundance
 of caution, the learned Trial Court also imposed a condition upon
 Respondent No.2 to not contact the prosecutrix or her family members
 directly or indirectly as well. 38. From the above, it does not appear that the learned Trial Court
 arbitrarily exercised its discretion and granted bail to Respondent No. 2
 in the present case. However, the prosecutrix has also made overarching
 allegations in relation to certain attempts having been made to influence
 her. It is the case of the prosecutrix that Respondent No.2 had misused
 the feature of posting WhatsApp status updates for specific individuals
 by posting some updates that were only visible to the prosecutrix, with
 the intention of exerting pressure upon her and to influence her to
 withdraw the present case filed by the prosecutrix seeking cancellation
 of bail. Certain allegations in relation to attempts at influencing the
 prosecutrix through mutual acquaintances have also been made. The
 most glaring allegation of all is in regard to two Judicial Officers having
 attempted to influence the prosecutrix to dilute the case at the behest of
 Respondent No.2. 38.1. Firstly, as far as the WhatsApp status updates are concerned, as
 per the prosecutrix, the statuses were selectively visible to only her and
 not accessible through other phones. It is pertinent to note that the
 screenshots do not reflect the mobile number of Respondent No.2 and
 the same appear to have been posted by "Adv Randhir Lal" and "R*pist
 Randhir". Although it is argued that the screenshots don't reflect Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 19 of 28 19:53:12 Respondent No.2's number since his number was saved on the
 prosecutrix's phone, however, at this juncture, when it cannot be
 ascertained as to whether the concerned updates were posted by
 Respondent No.2, a mere allegation in this regard is insufficient to
 impede the bail granted to Respondent No.2. 38.2. Secondly, it is argued that attempts were made by certain mutual
 acquaintances to influence the victim as well. While the impugned order
 records that no recordings were given to IO, the prosecutrix has now
 placed on record certain transcripts along with the recordings. A bare
 perusal of the recordings indicate that Respondent No.2 had contacted
 the prosecutrix indirectly through one Khalil, who had stated at the very
 outset that he would not speak on one of the calls. In the other calls,
 Khalil appears to be making attempts to get the parties to resolve the
 matter. The calls are between Khalil and the prosecutrix, however, the
 conversation was primarily between the prosecutrix and Respondent
 No.2. Insofar as the conversation with one 'Baba' is concerned, although the
 said individual is asking the prosecutrix if she goes to Respondent No.2
 and making passing references asking the prosecutrix to visit his
 Ashram in Vrindavan, the conversation seems to be inane and does not
 appear to carry any threat per se. 38.3. Thirdly, it is alleged that even two judicial officers have sought
 to pressurise the prosecutrix in diluting her case. It is pointed out that Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 20 of 28 19:53:12 the prosecutrix had interned with both the said judges and was
 acquainted with them. Before delving into the same, this Court
 considers it apposite to mention that it is conscious that considering the
 individuals involved, it is required to proceed with caution. This Court
 also considers it apposite to note that it was appalled to take notice of
 the involvement of judicial officers in a case of such nature. Although the allegations are a matter of further investigation, they
 indicate a flagrant lack of respect towards the criminal machinery. A
 bare perusal of the Status Report as well as the transcript of the call with
 Judicial Officer-1 prima facie indicates towards attempt on part of
 Respondent No.2 to influence the prosecutrix to dilute her case in
 exchange of a cash consideration. While this Court does not consider it
 apposite to explicitly list all the incriminating portions of the
 conversation, however, ex facie, specific assertions of ₹30 lakhs in cash
 being kept for being paid to the prosecutrix are repeatedly made during
 the course of the conversation. The Judicial Officer-1 also offers job to
 the prosecutrix. The two conversations with Judicial Officer-2 are brief and the same
 primarily involve the prosecutrix elaborating about the incidents. The
 Judicial Officer-2 also mentions that he is acquainted with both parties
 and asks as to how he can help. While the conversations will be subject
 to further enquiry, prima facie, unlike the conversation with Judicial
 Officer-1, the conversations with Judicial Officer-2 do not appear to
 reflect any explicit attempt at influencing the prosecutrix by way of Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 21 of 28 19:53:12 monetary considerations or otherwise and appears to be a mere
 conversation a person would have with an acquaintance. 39. As noted above, there is nothing wrong in the impugned order,
 however, this Court cannot be a mute spectator to the evidence in the
 nature of audio recordings which indicate that a sum of ₹30 lakhs were
 attempted to be paid to the prosecutrix. 40. It is argued on behalf of Respondent No.2 that the prosecutrix
 made attempts at extorting money and called influential individuals to
 instigate them to get involved in the dispute and she also exchanged
 multiple calls with the officers before and after the registration of FIR
 as well. It is argued that the record and chats relied upon by the
 prosecutrix reflect that the prosecutrix was herself fervently trying to
 contact the judicial officers, especially Judicial Officer-1. Furthermore,
 much emphasis has been laid on transcript of call dated 30.06.2025
 between the prosecutrix and Abhay Singh Pratap (acquaintance of the
 parties) to contend that the prosecutrix had given the complaint to extort
 money from Respondent No.2. It is argued that the conversation with
 Abhay Singh Pratap reflects that the prosecutrix had acknowledged
 receiving a sum of ₹30 lakhs and she was demanding a further sum of
 ₹20 lakhs. An audio recording of the call has been placed on record by
 Respondent No.2. Respondent No. 2 has further placed reliance on the
 transcript of a conversation between the prosecutrix and Khalil, wherein
 the prosecutrix is allegedly admitting to having removed the currency
 notes received by her and Khalil is asking her to not stretch the case Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 22 of 28 19:53:12 after receiving the amount. In the said call, Khalil is also asking the
 prosecutrix to not be greedy. In his reply, Respondent No.2 has also
 placed on record a video recording of the aforesaid WhatsApp call
 between the prosecutrix and Khalil. A copy of CCTV footage has also
 been placed on record to assert that the prosecutrix was trying to malign
 Respondent No.2 in his neighbourhood. 41. The last Status Report filed by the State mentions that it was
 found that the conversation between Khalil and the prosecutrix was
 recorded by Khalil using the mobile of one Md. Akeel Khan, who has
 stated that Khalil had taken his phone during the relevant time. The
 concerned phone was taken in possession. The conversation between
 the prosecutrix and Abhay Pratap Singh was apparently recorded by
 Respondent No.2 through his mobile as the conversation had taken
 place when Abhay Pratap Singh had visited the office of Respondent
 No.2. The recording is supported by a certificate under Section 63 (4) (c) of the Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam, 2023 given by Respondent
 No.2. The CDRs and IPDRs of the mobile numbers through which
 Abhay Pratap Singh contacted the prosecutrix are to be collected, and
 the same could not be done due to Abhay Pratap Singh being busy.
 Insofar as the CCTV footage indicating attempts at maligning the image
 of Respondent No.2 is concerned, it was found that the same only shows
 a woman in yellow dress and the face of the prosecutrix is not visible in
 the same. 42. Although the allegations in relation to extortion require further
 investigation, it cannot be denied that the material relied upon by
 Respondent No.2 prima facie indicates that the prosecutrix received
 some amount and made certain demands as well. At the same time,
 peculiarly, no material has been placed on record to show such threats
 of extortion being extended to Respondent No.2. Whether the
 prosecutrix was being pressured into settling the matter which led her
 to taking monetary consideration for diluting the case, or if the case was
 instituted with the sole intent of extortion cannot be determined at this
 juncture. 43. Before proceeding further, this Court is constrained to note with
 significant dismay that the record of the present matter has been
 inundated with a number of transcripts and recordings to show that the
 other side has been making attempts to subvert the judicial process and
 twist law to their whims. As noted above, there appears to be some merit
 in the material placed on record by both sides. This Court is thus met
 with an uncanny conundrum where it appears that both the parties have
 made an absolute mockery of justice. 44. However, insofar as the question of cancellation of bail is
 concerned, even if it is assumed that the prosecutrix made attempts to
 extort money, Respondent No.2 cannot be absolved as a bare perusal of
 the transcripts as well as Status Reports prima facie indicate that he has
 made an egregious affront to the principles of justice by attempting to
 pay the prosecutrix through a judicial officer, who will concededly have Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 24 of 28 19:53:12 authoritative influence, instead of making a complaint in this regard.
 Furthermore, this Court also cannot excuse the clear attempts made by
 Respondent No. 2 to skirt the direction of not contacting the prosecutrix
 after grant of interim protection by contacting her through Khalil. 45. One of the main tenets to cancel bail is interference with the
 process of law. The circumstances brought forth in the present
 proceedings are so overwhelming that they have shocked the
 conscience of this Court and the same reflect that there is apparent
 interference with the administration of justice, which warrants
 interference with the liberty granted to Respondent No.2. 46. As noted above, the learned Trial Court cannot be faulted for
 granting pre-arrest bail to Respondent No.2 as the allegations which led
 to registration of the FIR entitle him to such a relief on account of a
 multitude of factors, including the duration of the relationship between
 the parties as well as the improbability of the prosecutrix being ignorant
 of the marital status of Respondent No.2. However, at the same time,
 the unbridled attempts made by Respondent No.2 to interfere with the
 administration of justice have to be dealt with strict hands. The
 allegations in the present case are not of such nature which can be
 shirked casually. 47. Grant of bail is conditional and individual liberty has to bow in
 the face of societal impact and any supervening circumstances which
 are non-conducive to fair trial [Ref. Vipan Kumar Dhir v. State of Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 25 of 28 19:53:12 Punjab : (2021) 15 SCC 518]. Liberty of bail ought to be withdrawn
 from the accused in event of attempts being made to subvert the trial or
 sway the witnesses. Recently, in the case of Phireram v. State of U.P.: 59. Thus, the considerations that must weigh with the court for
 setting aside the bail order on an application being moved by the
 aggrieved party include any supervening circumstances that might
 have occurred after granting relief to the accused, the conduct of
 the accused while on bail, any attempt on the part of the accused to
 procrastinate, resulting in delaying the trial, any instance of threats
 being extended to the witnesses while on bail, any attempt on the
 part of the accused to tamper with the evidence in any manner etc." (emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 26 of 28 19:53:12 48. Moreover, it is pointed out that although charge sheet has been
 filed, further investigation in the present case is underway. As the trial
 has not yet started, considering the influential status of Respondent
 No.2 as well as his conduct and the serious issues raised in the present
 case in regard to attempts being made by several persons to influence
 the prosecutrix at the behest of Respondent No.2, there is a grave
 possibility of Respondent No.2 further attempting to influence
 witnesses or tampering with evidence if he is allowed to go scot free.
 Thus, appropriate order is required to be passed so as to deter such
 conduct. 49. Considering the aforesaid discussion, this Court is of the opinion
 that the present is a fit case to set aside the impugned order and cancel
 the pre-arrest bail granted to Respondent No.2. However, as
 Respondent No.2 has remained on bail for over three months, this Court
 considers it apposite to grant a period of one week to Respondent No.2
 to surrender before the learned Trial Court. 50. An administrative enquiry into the conduct of the concerned
 judicial officers, who were in contact with the prosecutrix, is also
 warranted, and it is directed that appropriate action in accordance with
 law be taken in this regard. 51. The present case is allowed in the aforesaid terms. Pending
 applications also stand disposed of. 52. It is made clear that the observations made in the present order
 are only made for the purpose of deciding the present case and the same
 shall not be taken as opinion on the merits of the case or affect the trial
 in any manner. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 NOVEMBER 7, 2025
 DU/ssh/sam Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:07.11.2025 BAIL APPLN. 2818/2025 Page 28 of 28 19:53:12