Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been named as accused in Crime
 No.266/2012 for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 & 120-B of I.P.C. and under Section
 3(D), 2/4 of Madhya Pradesh Recognized Examination Act,
 1937, registered at Police Station Gopalganj, District Sagar -
 commonly known as VYAPAM Examination Scam cases. The role ascribed to the applicant is that of a beneficiary.
 Allegedly, the applicant indulged in unfair means during
 the concerned examination by taking assistance from one
 Vinod Diwakar, who in turn, contacted middleman - Neeraj
 Rajput. The said Neeraj Rajput in turn, arranged for the
 impersonator, who appeared in the examination for and on
 behalf of the applicant. The facilitator - Vinod Diwakar as well
 as middleman - Neeraj Rajput have already been arrested.
 Further, charge-sheet has already been filed against the
 applicant. That presupposes that the investigation against the
 applicant is complete, unless further investigation may become
 necessary if new material comes on record. Besides, the
 applicant through counsel assures that as and when his
 presence is required by the Investigating Officer, he shall make
 himself available in the office of the Investigating Officer even
at short notice. Moreover, the applicant will punctually attend
the Court proceedings and cooperate for early disposal of the
trial. The fact that impersonator - Dinesh is yet to be arrested
can be no impediment for grant of bail to the applicant. It is
fairly accepted by the counsel for the State that because the
applicant did not interact with Dinesh directly but through
Vinod Diwakar and Neeraj Rajput and the aforesaid two
persons have already been arrested, the presence of the
applicant for further investigation may not be necessary. Taking overall view, in the interest of justice, the
application is allowed and the applicant is directed to be
released on bail on following conditions to be strictly observed
by the applicant:- The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.