Brief facts of the prosecution case:- Om Raghav (Linemen) at the premises of accused i.e. in front of
 H.No.960, Gali No.30/9, Jafrabad, Shahdara (Pole No.YVR X675), Delhi- FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 1 of 17
 110053. At the time of inspection, no electricity meter was found installed
 at the premises of the accused and accused/user was found indulged in
 direct theft of electricity through illegal PVC copper wire which was
 connected to Yellow colour service cable of BSES of Pole No.YVR X675.
 Total connected load was found to be 9.063 KW which was being used for
 domestic purpose. Necessary videography of the inspection proceedings
 was done by the videographer Sh. Sumit in presence of user/accused. The
 illegal wire was removed by the lineman and seized at the spot. The
 inspection report, load report and seizure memo were prepared at the spot.
 Accused Anish Ahmed was found to be landlord of the inspected premises
 and accused Ms. Shabana was found to be user. Public persons were
 requested to join the inspection proceedings but none agreed. On the basis
 of inspection, the complainant company assessed the demand to the tune
 of Rs.1,61,067/-. Accordingly, following the guidelines of DERC, theft bill
 was raised and sent to the accused persons but they failed to deposit the
 said amount. Original CD of the said videography alongwith Certificate
 U/s 65B of the Evidence Act was also submitted with the complaint. It is
 averred that the act of the accused Shabana (user) falls within the
 provisions of section 135 / 138 of the Act and the acts of the accused Anish
 Ahmed falls within the provision of section 135 / 138 / 150 of the Act. Thus,
 a prayer was made in the complaint to register an FIR against the accused
 persons U/s 135/138/150 of the Act. 3. The SHO marked the said complaint (Ex.PW2/6) to HC Pradeep,
 the IO of the case for necessary action. HC Pradeep made endorsement on
 the complaint and handed over the complaint to Duty Officer for

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 2 of 17
 registration of an FIR. The Duty Officer registered the present FIR against
 the accused persons U/s 135/138/150 of the Act. However, on the transfer
 of HC Pradeep, investigation of the case was transferred to HC Satender
 Kumar. Thereafter, IO visited inspected premises and prepared site plan.
 IO visited the H.No.962, Gali No.30/9, Jafrabad, Delhi (Pole No.YVR X 675) where Mohd. Jahangir met and disclosed that on 22.06.2020 he had
 purchased the said property from Anish Ahmed and at the time of
 inspection, inspected premises belonged to Anish Ahmed. Thereafter, IO
 served the accused Anish Ahmed with the notice U/s 41.1A Cr.P.C and in
 this regard GD No.73A was recorded. Accused Anish Ahmed joined the
 investigation and IO interrogated him and prepared interrogation report.
 Accused Anish Ahmed stated that no lady in the name of Shabana was
 residing in the inspected premises, however, one Rukhsana, daughter of
 his sister was residing there. During investigation, accused Anish Ahmed
 produced copy of his Aadhar card as well as copy of ownership document
 (GPA) of the inspected premises. IO bound down the accused Anish
 Ahmed. vide Pabandinama. Despite efforts accused Shabana could not be
 traced. After completion of investigation, charge-sheet was filed against
 the both the accused persons U/s 135/138/150 of the Act. 4. On 24.11.2021, notice for the commission of offence U/s 135 r/w section 150 of the Act was given to accused Anish Ahmed. Accused
 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5. In order to prove its case against the accused, the prosecution
 examined following witnesses. In order to put the facts in chronological
 order, the testimony of members of inspection team is being discussed

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 3 of 17
 first:- Shriom Raghav (Lineman) and PW5 Sh. Sumit (Videographer) at the
 premises of accused i.e. H.No.980, 981, Gali no.31, Indrda Chowk,
 Jafrabad, Delhi-53. During inspection, no meter was found installed at the
 inspected premises and one lady namely Shabana tenant of accused was
 present and the said lady was indulged in direct theft of electricity city
 through illegal wire which was connected to BSES service cable. PW2
 further deposed that total connected load was found to be 9.063 KW which
 was being used for domestic purpose. During inspection, accused Shabana
 was present at the spot and necessary videography of the inspection
 proceedings was done by the videographer Sh. Sumit. The CD containing
 videography of the inspection proceedings has been brought on record as
 Ex.PW2/1. During evidence, the CD was played on the laptop and after
 seeing the video, witness has correctly identified the video which was
 recorded by the videographer during inspection. The inspection report
 Ex.PW2/2 and the load report Ex.PW2/3 were prepared at the spot. PW2
 further deposed that the illegal wire was removed by lineman Sh. Shriom
 Raghav and seized at the spot vide seizure memo Ex.PW2/4. On the basis
 of inspection, the theft bill of Rs.1,61,067/- (Ex.PW2/5) was raised and
 sent to accused. Thereafter, on 16.11.2019, PW2 lodged the complaint
 (Ex.PW2/6) to the SHO, PS Jafrabad for registration of an FIR against the

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 4 of 17
 accused. During evidence, the case property i.e. Illegal PVC copper wire
 1.5mm square size and another illegal PVC copper wire having size of
 7x22 SWG were produced and shown to the witness who correctly
 identified the said wires which were removed and seized at the time of
 inspection. The said wires have been brought on record as Ex.P1 (Colly). (5.2) PW3 Sh. Anuj Kumar Varshney is the Diploma Trainee Engineer
 (DET). This witness was also one of the members of inspecting team and
 he deposed on the similar lines of testimony of PW2 and he has
 corroborated the testimony of PW2. (5.3) PW4 Sh. Shriom Raghav is the Lineman. This witness is another
 member of the inspection team and he corroborated the testimony of PW2
 and PW3 and deposed on the similar lines of the testimony of PW2 and
 PW3. He also deposed that the illegal wire was removed by him and
 seized at the spot. (5.4) PW5 Sh. Sumit is the Videographer. This witness deposed that
 on 10.10.2019, at about 1.07 pm, an inspection was conducted at the
 premises of accused and during inspection, on the instruction of team
 leader Sh. Tara Chandra, he did videography of inspection proceedings.
 During evidence, the CD was played and after seeing the video, he
 identified the video which was recorded by him at the time of inspection. (5.5) PW1 HC Satender is the IO of the case. This witness deposed
 that 16.11.2019, the complaint (Ex.PW2/6) lodged by Sh Tara Chandra
 Assistant Manager of BSES YPL was earlier handed over IO/HC Pradeep.
 Thereafter, on 01.12.2019, complaint was handed over to DO for the

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 5 of 17
 registration of FIR. Accordingly, FIR no.662/19 was registered and
 investigation of the case was previously handed over to IO HC Pradeep.
 After transfer of HC Pradeep, the investigation of the case was marked to
 him. The copy of FIR has been brought on record as Ex.PW1/1. PW1
 further deposed that on 26.09.2020, he visited the inspected premises,
 prepared site plan Ex.PW1/2, served the accused Anish Ahmed with the
 notice u/s 41A of Cr.P.C/Ex.PW1/3. On the same day, accused joined the
 investigation and handed over the copy of ownership documents of the
 inspected premises and copy of his Aadhar Card. These documents have
 been brought on record as Mark A colly. During interrogation, he prepared
 a interrogation report Ex.PW1/4. During interrogation it was revealed that
 the inspected premises belongs to accused's wife Hussain Bano. He bound
 down the accused vide Pabandinama Ex.PW1/5. 6. After culmination of prosecution evidence, statement of accused
 Anish Ahmed was recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C . Accused denied the inspection
 but he did not deny that no electricity meter was available in the inspected
 premises at the time of inspection and illegal wire was removed by the
 lineman/PW4 Sh. Shriom Raghav. Accused did not specifically deny the
 fact that his tenant Shabana was present at the time of inspection and she
 was indulged in direct theft of electricity and he has simply expressed his
 ignorance stating that he was not present at the spot. Accused further did
 not specifically deny the fact that user/accused Shabana was present at the
 spot and videography of the inspection proceedings was done by
 videographer/PW5 Sh. Sumit and again he expressed his ignorance stating
 that he was not present at the spot. However, accused stated that he has

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 6 of 17
 settled the matter with the complainant company and he has also made the
 payment and an NOC has been issued. Accused opted not to lead any
 defence evidence. Accordingly opportunity to lead defence evidence was
 closed and matter was listed for final arguments. 7. Final arguments have been heard from the Ld. Addl. PP for the
 State as well as Ld. Counsel for the accused. During the course of
 arguments, Ld. Addl. PP for the State submitted that at the time of
 inspection, no electricity meter was available at the inspected premises. It
 is also submitted that inspected premises belonged to wife of accused at
 the time of inspection and user/co-accused Shabana (could not be traced)
 was residing in the inspected premises as tenant and thus, accused Anish
 Ahmed let the user/co-accused Shabana commit direct theft of electricity.
 It is further argued that the complainant company has proved its case
 against the accused beyond reasonable doubt through the testimonies of
 prosecution witnesses. 8. Ld. Defence Counsel, on the other hand, argued that accused is
 innocent and he has been falsely implicated in the present case. Accused
 has not committed any theft of electricity. It is further submitted that
 matter has already been settled with the complainant company and
 settlement amount has already been paid and an NOC has already been
 issued by the complainant company. 9. Before dealing with the factual aspect of the present case, it is
 deemed appropriate to specify the legal position and relevant provisions of
 the Act which are required to be gone into for appropriate disposal of the

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 7 of 17
 cases pertaining to section 135 / 150 of Electricity Act. The provisions of section 135 / 150 of the Electricity Act are reproduced as under:- section (1) of section 136 , section 137 , or section 138 , on his
 conviction for such abetment, may also be cancelled by the
 licensing authority: 10. There is a presumption mentioned in the third proviso of Section

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 9 of 17
 135 (1) of the Electricity Act, 2003 which reads as follows:- 11. As per prosecution case, at the time of inspection, no electricity
 meter was available at the inspected premises and the user/accused
 Shabana was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal
 wire. The inspected premises belongs to accused and the user/-co-accused
 Shabana was residing there as tenant. Being landlord of the inspected
 premises, accused Anish Ahmed abetted the user/accused Shabana (could
 not be traced) to commit direct theft of electricity. Thus, the onus was on
 the prosecution to prove these allegations against the accused persons
 beyond reasonable doubt. 12. PW2 Sh. Tara Chandra (Assistant Manager), PW3 Sh. Anuj
 Kumar Varshney (DET), PW4 Sh. Shriom Raghav (Lineman) and PW5
 Sh. Sumit are the material witnesses in this case. PW2, PW3 and PW4
 corroborated the allegations made in the complaint Ex.PW2/6 and their
 testimony is in conformity with the documents i.e. inspection report
 Ex.PW2/2, load report Ex.PW2/3 and seizure memo Ex.PW2/4. 13. PW3 Sh. Anuj Kumar Varshney (DET) and PW4 Sh. Shriom
 Raghav corroborated the testimony of PW2 and deposed on the similar
 lines of testimony of PW2. PW4 also deposed that he removed the illegal
 wire from the spot. FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 10 of 17 14. PW5 Sumit (Videographer) deposed that on 10.10.2019, at about
 1.07 pm, an inspection was conducted at the premises of the accused and
 during inspection, on the instruction of team leader Sh. Tara Chandra, he
 did videography of inspection proceedings. During evidence, the CD was
 played and after seeing the video, he identified the video which was
 recorded by him at the time of inspection. 15. It is clear from the testimony of PW2, PW3 and PW4 that on
 10.10.2019 at about 1.07 pm, an inspection was carried out at the premises
 of accused by the inspecting team members/officials of complainant
 company and at the time of inspection, no electricity meter was found
 installed there and this fact has not been disputed by the accused in the
 cross-examination of PW2, PW3 and PW4 as well as in his statement U/s
 313 Cr.P.C . It is further clear from the testimony of PW1 HC Satender
 Kumar as well as statement of accused U/s 313 Cr.P.C that the inspected
 premises belonged to wife of accused during relevant time and accused
 was the landlord. PW2, PW3 and PW4 deposed that at the time of
 inspection user Shabana, tenant of the accused was present at the spot and
 accused has not disputed this fact in the cross-examination of these
 witnesses as well as in his statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C . PW2, PW3 and PW4
 also deposed that the user/tenant Shabana was indulged in direct theft of
 electricity through illegal wire and said illegal wire was removed by the
 lineman/PW4 Sh. Shriom Raghav and these facts have not been disputed
 by the accused in the cross-examination of these witnesses. It is further
 clear from the testimony of prosecution witnesses as well as video
 contained in the CD Ex.PW2/1 that the user/co-accused Shabana (could

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 11 of 17
 not be arrested) was indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal
 wire. Inspection proceedings were recorded by videographer and CD
 containing videography of the said inspection proceedings was brought on
 record as Ex.PW2/1. Perusal of cross-examination of PW2, PW3 and PW4
 shows that though, the accused endevaoured to dispute the factum of
 inspection, preparation of inspection documents, seizure memo and
 videography of the inspection proceedings, however, he has not
 specifically disputed the factum of preparation of the relevant documents,
 the contents and authenticity of the inspection report and CD containing
 videography of the inspection proceedings. Accused has not specifically
 disputed the genuineness of assessment of load assessed by the
 complainant as mentioned in the load report Ex.PW2/3. During evidence,
 PW2 identified the video recorded by videographer/PW5 Sh. Sumit.
 Accused has not disputed the identity of the inspected premises shown in
 the video contained in the CD Ex.PW2/1. Accused has not disputed in the
 cross-examination of PW2, PW3 and PW4 as well as his statement
 recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C that no electricity meter was available there and
 it is also clear from the interrogation report Ex.PW1/4 that an inspection
 was conducted by the officials of BSES in the premises of accused.
 Though, in the interrogation report Ex.PW1/4 stated that no lady in the
 name of Shabana was residing in the inspected premises and Rukhsana,
 daughter of his sister was residing there and said Rukhsana informed him
 about the raid conducted by the officials of BSES. Accused admitted in
 the interrogation report that no electricity meter was available there. The
 interrogation report Ex.PW1/4 bears the signature of accused and he has

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 12 of 17
 not disputed his signature on this document. Thus, inspection proceedings
 conducted at the time of inspection as well as videography of inspection
 proceedings recorded by videographer/PW4 Sh. Sumit stands proved. 16. PW2, PW3 and PW4 have clearly deposed that user/tenant
 Shabana was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal
 wires. It is also clear from the statement of PW1 and statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C that inspected property belonged to wife of accused. In the
 interrogation report Ex.PW1/4, accused endeavoured to say that no lady in
 the name of Shabana was residing in the inspected premises during
 relevant time, however, in the statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C , accused has not
 specifically denied that Shabana was residing as tenant in the inspected
 premises and he has simply expressed his ignorance stating that he was not
 present at the spot. PW2, PW3 and PW3 have clearly deposed that at the
 time of inspection, user/tenant Shabana was present and she was found
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire and this fact has
 not been disputed. Thus, in view of settled provision of section 150 of the
 Act, accused being landlord of the inspected premises is liable for
 abetment of the offence as he let the user/accused Shabana commit direct
 theft of electricity through illegal wire. During evidence before the court,
 CD (Ex.PW2/1) containing video clip of inspection proceedings was
 played before the court which depicted the manner in which user/accused
 was indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. 17. As per testimony of interrogation report Ex.PW1/4 and statement
 recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C , inspected premises belonged to wife of accused
 and accused was in occupation of the same and thus, as he is landlord, it

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 13 of 17
 was his duty to ensure that no illegal activity is carried out at his premises.
 It is clear from the evidence of the prosecution witnesses that the
 user/tenant Shabana (could not be traced) was indulged in direct theft of
 electricity. It is not the case of the accused Anish Ahmed that he was not
 aware about the factum of direct theft of electricity being committed by
 the user/tenant. Rather, accused Anish Ahmed has endeavoured to deny the
 factum of direct theft of electricity committed by the user/tenant Shabana.
 Accused has not denied that the user/tenant was indulged in direct theft of
 electricity in the cross-examination of PW2, PW3 and PW4 as well as in
 his statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C . Accused has stated that he has settled the
 matter qua theft bill with the complainant company and during arguments,
 it was submitted that he has already paid the settlement amount and an
 NOC has also been issued. In case, accused Anish Ahmed was unaware
 that user/tenant has committed direct theft of electricity then he ought to
 have brought this fact to the notice of the complainant and he ought to
 have disassociated himself from the said illegal activity of the user/tenant.
 However, it is clear that accused Anish Ahmed did not take any action in
 this regard against the user/tenant and his aforesaid conduct speaks for
 itself that he was well aware of the illegal act of the user/tenant Shabana.
 Thus, under these facts and circumstances, it can be very well said that
 once the accused Anish Ahmed had come to know about the said illegal
 activity on the part of the user/tenant, he ought to have taken appropriate
 action against her and he was also duty bound to inform the complainant
 about the same, however, he did not do the needful which shows that
 accused Anish Ahmed was fully aware of the said illegal activity being

FIR No.662/2019 State vs Anish Ahmed 14 of 17
 committed by user/tenant. Thus, under these circumstances, it can be very
 well said that accused Anish Ahmed has abetted the offence of direct theft
 of electricity and therefore, he is liable for the offence punishable U/s 135
 r/w section 150 of the Act. 18. In view of the statutory presumption mentioned in the third
 proviso of section 135 (1) of the Act, once the prosecution successfully
 establishes the charges against the accused regarding the theft of
 electricity, it is to be presumed that accused has committed theft of
 electricity unless accused brings some evidence on record to rebut the
 presumption. In view of the discussions made in the preceding paras, it is
 held that the prosecution has proved the charges against the accused that
 the user/tenant Shabana who was residing in the inspected premises, was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity, in connivance with accused Anish
 Ahmed and therefore, in view of the third proviso of section 135 (1) of the
 Electricity Act 2003, it is to be presumed that user/tenant Shababna was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity, in connivance with accused Anish
 Ahmed, if accused is unable to rebut the statutory presumption. 19. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case reported as '2001 (6) SCC
 16 titled as Hiten P. Dalal vs Bratindranath Banerjee ' has laid down
 the law related to the rebuttal of statutory presumption. Relevant portion
 of the para no.16 is reproduced as under:- 20. In view of aforesaid discussions, it is held that the prosecution
 has proved beyond reasonable doubt that user/tenant Shabana was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. It is also proved
 on record that accused Anish Ahmed was the landlord and he had given
 the inspected premises to user/tenant Shabana (could not be traced) who
 was indulged in direct theft of electricity and accused Anish Ahmed let the
 user/tenant commit direct theft of electricity. Thus, accused Anish Ahmed
 is guilty of abetement of offence of direct theft of electricity. Accordingly
 accused Anish Ahmed is convicted for the offence punishable U/s 135 r/w section 150 of the Electricity Act 2003. File be taken up again as and
 when user/co-accused Shabana is arrested. Digitally
 signed by AJAY
 AJAY GUPTA
 Date: