FACTS IN BRIEF / CASE SET UP BY THE PROSECUTION 1. The facts as alleged by the prosecution, are hereby succinctly

 recapitulated. It was alleged that on 24.06.2017, at about 02:00 Am Near

 Sarita underpass on road leading towards Okhla Phase-II New Delhi,

 accused Dilshad and Saleem were found in possession of 240 grams and

 260 grams of heroine respectively. Thereafter, the accused was arrested,

 and investigation was conducted. Whereafter, the present chargesheet FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 1/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: EVIDENCE LED BY PROSECUTION 3. In the trial, the prosecution in support of its case, examined fifteen

 witnesses, the succinct testimonies whereof are as follows: 4. PW-1 HC Rajiv Kumar deposed that on 24.06.2017, he was working as

 HC and was on duty at PS Crime Branch at Saket as DO from 08:00 pm

 to 08:00 am. At around 06:50 am, Ct. Kuldeep produced one rukka who

 was sent by ASI Krishan Kumar for registration of the FIR. On the basis

 of said rukka, he registered the FIR through Computer Operator, copy of

 which was proved as Ex.PW1/A bearing his signatures at point A. He

 also made endorsement on the rukka Ex.PW1/B, bearing his signature at

 point-A. He had brought the original FIR register. On that day his duty

 was from 23.06.2017 at 08:00 pm to 08:00 am of 24.06.2017. On that

 day, he also recorded DD No. 2 photocopy of which was proved as

 Ex.PW1/C. After the registration of FIR, he recorded DD No. 4

 photocopy of which was proved as Ex.PW1/D regarding the closure of

 the FIR. After the registration of FIR he handed over FIR and original

 rukka to Ct. Kuldeep. Further investigation of this case was handed over

 to ASI Pawan Kumar as per the directions of Senior officials. FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 2/65 ARUL Digitally signed
 by ARUL VARMA

 VARMA 17:28:52 -0300
 Date: 2023.09.06 5. PW-2 Inspector R Sriniwasan deposed that on 24.06.2017, he was

 posted as SHO PS Crime Branch. He had proved the original roznamcha

 register containing DD No.3 dated 24.06.20117 as Ex PW2/A. 6. PW-3 Sh. Shailendra Yadav, Senior Scientific Officer deposed that he

 was the FSL expert, who proved his report viz Ex.PW3/A whereby it was

 opined that the seized item contained Heroine. 7. PW-4 Inspector Manoj Kumar deposed that on 24.06.2017, he was

 posted as Inspector in Narcotics Cell, Crime Branch, Delhi. On the at

 about 12:15 am (midnight), ASI Krishan Kumar came in his office

 alongwith secret informer and informed about the secret information that

 a person namely Saleem resident of J. J. Camp Tighri, Delhi who was

 present residing somewhere in Mansoori, Gahaziabad and who was

 indulge in the supply of Heroin in retail as well wholesale in Delhi after

 bringing the same from Bareily (UP) and that on that day, Saleem

 alongwith his associate Dilshad had gone to Bareily in his car No. DL-

 3CAG-4189 and would bring Heroin in huge quantity in the said car and

 would supply the same to someone in Tighri J. J. Camp and he would

 pass through kalandi Kunj to Okhla Phase-II in between 01:45 am to

 02:15 am and would go to Tighri J. J. Camp to supply Heroin. He further

 informed that if a raid will be conducted on a way from Kalandi Kunj to

 Okhala Phase-II at underpass Sarita Vihar and they both could be

 apprehended alongwith the Heroin in their vehicle. He verified the FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 3/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 8. PW-5 ASI Jag Narain deposed that on 24.06.2017, he was posted as

 ASI and was working as MHC(M) in PS Crime Branch, New Delhi. On

 that day, on being called by Inspector R. Shri Niwasan, SHO, PS Crime

 Branch reached in his office alongwith Register No. 19. In the office

 SHO handed over to him 6 sealed pullandas No. A1, A2, B1, B2, A & B

 alongwith form FSL all having seals of 7B PS/NB DELHI and RSS

 alongwith two carbon copies of seizure memos in this case regarding FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 5/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 9. PW-6 Sh. R.K. Pahwa, Assistant Section Officer, deposed that he had

 brought certified copy of vehicle particular pertaining to vehicle

 no.DL3CAG-4189 and as per record, the present owner of the said

 vehicle is Salim, S/o Sh. Sabbir from 07.02.2017. Certified copy of report

 of the aforesaid vehicle was proved as Ex.PW6/A. He had also brought

 original record pertaining to aforesaid vehicle and as per record first

 owner of the aforesaid vehicle was Karma Leasing and Finance Limited

 from 04.07.2005 to 24.02.2015 and thereafter ownership of the vehicle

 was transferred in the name of Sh. Mohar Singh from 25.02.2015 to

 06.02.2017. Thereafter ownership of the vehicle was again transferred in

 the name of Salim from 07.02.2017 till date. Photocopy of the aforesaid

 record pertaining to transfer of the ownership of the vehicle from first

 owner Karma Leasing Finance Limited to present owner Salim were

 proved as Ex.PW6/B. 10.PW-7 HC Kuldeep Singh deposed that on 24.06.2017, he was posted at

 Narcotics Cell, Crime Branch, New Delhi as a constable. On that day, at

 around 12:45 AM (in night), ASI Krishan Kumar called HC Kuldeep

 Singh HC Jitender, Ct. Jitender and informed them about the secret

 information that one person in the name of Salim who used to supply

 heroine after bringing the same from Bareli, U.P., and he alongwith one FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 7/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 11.PW-8 Ct. Sunil deposed that on 27.06.2017 he was posted as constable

 at above stated office. On that day, on the direction of IO, he went to PS

 Crime Branch at Malviya Nagar and from the malkhana of PS Crime

 Branch obtained two sealed pullandas of present case marked as A-1 and

 B-1 and each duly sealed with seal of '7BPSNBDELHI' and 'RSS' from

 MHC (M) HC Jag Narain alongwith two FSL forms and copy of seizure FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 12/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 12.PW-9 ASI/Tech Devender Kumar deposed that on 19.09.2017 on the

 request of ASI Pawan Kumar of Narcotic Cell, Crime Branch, Pushp

 Vihar, New Delhi, he inspected the vehicle no. DL3C AG 4189 Maruti

 Baleno car in his office at Pushp Vihar. During the inspection the battery

 was found low and the car could not be start. He did not find any other

 deficiency and the said car was in working condition but at that time due

 to the battery deficiency it was not fit for road test. He prepared his report

 below the request of IO. His inspection report was proved as Ex. PW-

 9/A. 13.PW-10 ASI Krishan Kumar deposed that on 24.06.2017 he was posted

 in the Narcotic Cell at Kotwali. On that day i.e. in the intervening night

 of 23/24.06.2017 at about 12 midnight the secret informer came to his

 office and informed that one Salim resident of J.J. Camp, Tigri but during

 these days he was residing in the area of Masuri, Ghaziabad and he used

 to supply heroine in retail and in huge quantity in the area of Delhi. He FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 13/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: also told that the said Salim used to bring the heroine from Bareily, UP.

 He further told him that on that day also the said Salim alongwith his one

 associate namely Dilshad would bring heroine from Bareily in a car no.

 DL3C AG 4189 via Sarita Vihar and deliver the same in the area of Tigri

 Camp and they would come between 1.45 AM to 2.15 AM. They could

 be apprehended if raid conducted. After having satisfy with the

 information at 12.15 AM, he produced the informer before the Inspector

 Manoj Kumar and apprised him about the information. The Inspector also

 made enquiry from the secret informer. After having satisfied with the

 enquiry made by him, the Inspector informed the ACP Sanjeev Kumar

 Tyagi on his telephone. The ACP directed the Inspector to conduct raid

 and proceed accordingly. Due to paucity of time, he could not obtain the

 search warrant for the vehicle about which the information was received.

 I told this fact to Inspector Manoj Kumar. Thereafter, at about 12.40 AM

 regarding the secret information he recorded DD No. 2 vide carbon Ex.

 PW-10/A bore his signature at point B. The copy of the said DD was

 given to Inspector Manoj Kumar. He then constituted a raiding party

 comprising PW-10 HC Jitender, Ct. Kuldeep and Ct. Jitender. He also

 collected the field testing kit, IO bag and electronic weighing machine

 from the office and then proceeded for the disclosed place alongwith

 raiding party and secret informer. They proceeded from the office at

 about 1 AM by a government gypsy bearing no. DL1C J 5545. He FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 14/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: Firstly he conducted the cursory search of accused Salim and found one

 transparent polythene from the right pocket of his wearing pant. The said

 polythene was tied with a rubber band and it was found containing one

 cloth parcel of pink colour. The said parcel was taken out from the

 polythene which was further found containing transparent polythene and

 tied with rubber band. The said polythene was found containing some

 substance of light brown colour. He took out a small quantity from the

 said substance and tested / checked it on the field testing kit and it was

 revealed to be heroine. the said substance. The sample were taken in

 transparent polythene with rubber band and converted into two separate

 cloth parcels and sealed them with his seal bearing impression

 7BPSNBDELHI. Mark A1 and A2 were given to the sample parcels. The

 remaining substance was also converted into cloth parcel with the

 polythene and pink colour cloth with rubber band and sealed it with the

 same seal. Mark A was given to the said parcel. He then filled in the FSL

 form in this regard and affixed the same seal upon it. He then seized the

 said parcels with FSL form through seizure memo already Ex. PW-7/E

 bore his signature at point B. The seal was handed over to HC Jitender

 after use. Thereafter, he conducted the cursory search of accused Dilshad FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 17/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 14.PW-11ASI Jitender deposed that on 24.06.2017 he was posted as Head

 Constable at Narcotic Cell, Kotwali, Crime Branch, New Delhi. On that

 day, ASI Krishan Kumar at about 01:00 AM in the night, told him, Ct.

 Jitender and Ct. Kuldeep that he had received a secret information that

 one person namely Saleem, who used to supply heroine in Delhi, would FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 20/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: come alongwith Dilshad by a car bearing no. DL 3CA G4189, Maruti

 Baleno of silver colour, to Delhi via Kalindi Kunj and will supply heroine

 in the area of Okhla Phase-II. ASI Krishan had also conveyed this

 information to Insp. Manoj Kumar and who directed him to constitute a

 raiding party. ASI Krishan had constituted a raiding party comprising

 PW-11 ASI Jitender, Ct. Jitender and Ct. Kuldeep. ASI Krishan Kumar

 collected IO bag, field testing kit and electronic weighing machine from

 the office and then they proceeded from the office alongwith a secret

 informer in a Government vehicle bearing Registration No. DL 1CJ 5545,

 which was being driven by Ct. Pawan. They reached at about 01:30 AM

 at under pass Sarita Vihar via Shantivan Traffic Light Ashram and Apollo

 Hospital. On the way, ASI Krishan Kumar had asked several public

 persons to join the raiding party but none could prepared after disclosing

 their reasonable excuses. The government vehicle was parked about 50

 mt away from the spot. The IO ASI Krishan Kumar had asked 3-4 public

 persons to join the raiding party at the spot but none again none public

 persons would prepare to become witness. At about 01:40 AM, they put

 barricades on the road which was coming from Kalindi Kunj side leading

 towards Okhla Phase-II. They took their position near the entry point of

 the under pass. IO alongwith the secret informer were standing ahead

 from the barricades. At about 02:00 AM, the aforesaid Baleno Car

 bearing NO. DL 3CAG 4189 came from Kalindi Kunj, the secret FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 21/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 15. PW-12 ASI Pawan Kumar depose on 24.06.2017, he was posted as ASI

 in the Narcotic Cell, Crime Branch, Daryaganj, Delhi. On that day at

 about 09:15 AM, Ct. Kuldeep handed over him the copy of the FIR in this

 case alongwith the original rukka in his office. As the investigation after

 registration of FIR, the investigation was assigned to him. He perused the

 rukka. Leaving behind Ct. Kuldeep in office, he alongwith Ct. Pawan went

 to the place of recovery by a government vehicle at Sarita Vihar under

 pass. They left the office at about 09:30 AM and reached at the spot at

 about 10:15 AM. At the spot, ASI Krishan, HC Jitender, Ct. Jitender, two

 accused persons namely Saleem and Dilshad and one car found. ASI

 Krishan apprised him about the proceedings of this case which was

 conducted by him and handed over the documents prepared by him

 alongwith two accused persons and whose names revealed after inquiry as

 Saleem and Dilshad and one car. He prepared the site-plan of the place of

 recovery on the pointing of ASI Krishan Kumar, the same was proved as

 Ex. PW10/D, which bore his signature at Point X. Thereafter, he recorded

 the statement of HC Jitender u/s 161 Cr.P.C from 10:30 AM to 12:00

 noon. Then at about 12:15 PM, he arrested the accused Saleem after made

 inquiry from him. His arrest memo Ex. PW10/E, which bore his signature FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 26/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 16.PW-13 ASI Mahesh Chand deposed that on 03.02.2017, he was posted FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 28/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 17.PW-14 Ct. Pawan deposed that he had been working in the said office

 for the last six months. He deposed that he had brought the summon

 record i.e. DD No. 02 dated 24.06.2017 recorded at Narcotics Cell, Crime

 Branch, South-East District, Delhi. As per record, the said DD was

 received in the ACP office on 24.06.2017. The same was proved as Ex.

 PW14/A. At that time, Sh. Sanjeev Kumar Tyagi was the ACP but he was

 not working with him at that time. The said DD was received in the office

 vide entry no. 1318 dated 24.06.2017 in the diary register. The copy of

 the relevant entry was proved as Ex. PW14/B. As per record, on FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 29/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: PW14/C. The receiving of the said report is mentioned at entry no. 1319

 of diary register. The copy of the relevant entry was proved as Ex.

 PW14/D. As per record, on 24.06.2017, one report u/s 57 NDPS Act,

 prepared by ASI Pawan Kumar, Narcotics Cell Crime Branch, was also

 received in the office of ACP on 24.06.2017. The original report was

 proved as Ex. PW14/E. The receiving of the said DD was mentioned at

 entry serial no. 1320 of diary register. The copy of the relevant entry was

 proved as Ex. PW14/F (OSR). 18.PW15 Retired ACP Sh. Sanjeev Tyagi deposed that on 24.06.2017 he

 was posted as ACP Narcotics Cell, Crime Branch, Dariya Ganj. On that

 day at about 12:30 AM, Insp. Manoj Kumar Narcotics Cell,

 telephonically informed him about a secret information that one Salim r/o

 J. J. Tigri Kala and Masuri, Ghaziabad, indulged in supplying of 'heroin'

 from Bareily to Delhi and between 01:45 to 02:15 AM, coming from

 Kalindi Kunj to Okhla Phase-II with his associate namely Dilshad and

 would bring 'heroin' in vehicle, bearing no. DL 3CAG 4189. If a trap put

 under pass Sarita Vihar, they could be apprehended. On this information,

 he directed Insp. Manoj Kumar to conduct raid in accordance with

 information. On the same day i.e. on 24.06.2017 DD No. 2 dated FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 30/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 19.The relevancy of the witnesses examined are succinctly delineated in the

 following tabular form: Senior Scientific Officer proved his report viz Ex.PW3/A

 whereby it was opined that the

 seized item contained Heroine. 20.Accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.PC. In their defence, they averred that

 they do not know anything about this case and have been falsely

 implicated in this case. Both accused deposed that it was a false case and

 that they were innocent. They further deposed that they were falsely

 implicated by the police in this wrong case and that they had no

 knowledge about it. It was further deposed by both accused persons that

 nothing was recovered from their possession and that it was planted upon

 them by the police officials. Accused persons did not lead evidence in

 their defence. ARGUMENTS OF LD. ADDL. PUBLIC PROSECUTOR FOR THE

 STATE AND LD. DEFENCE COUNSEL 21. Sh. Wasi-Ur-Rahman, Ld. Public Prosecutor for the State submitted that FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 35/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 22.Ld. Addl PP for State further contended that there is no reason to discard

 the testimony of witnesses examined in this case. Furthermore, there is no

 defence taken by the accused, which can be considered at par with the

 prosecution evidence, rather, in light of Section 35 and 54 of NDPS Act,

 apart from the evidence led by prosecution, there is presumption of

 having the contraband substance in the possession of accused persons

 unless and until the same is proved contrary to the satisfaction of this

 Court. 23. It was further submitted that initially after receiving the secret

 information, the compliance of Section 42 of NDPS Act has been done as

 the same was reduced in writing vide DD No-2 which was sent to the

 ACP through the Inspector In charge Narcotic Cell. The information was

 also conveyed to the ACP through the inspector orally and the ACP had

 directed to constitute a raiding party and take necessary action in FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 36/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 24. It was further contended that as far as the contention of Ld. Counsel for

 accused, that the search warrants were not taken in compliance of the

 relevant provision of NDPS Act , it is submitted that the search warrants

 in the present case are not required because the contraband substance was

 recovered from the wearing clothes of accused persons and no search or

 seizure effected from any connivance vessel or premises. Thus, this

 contention has no legal force and is liable to be ignored. 25.Ld. Addl PP for State further contended that as per the evidence after

 apprehending the accused persons they were apprised about the secret

 information and their legal rights that their search in order to recover

 some contraband substance, could be conducted in the presence of some

 Gazetted Officer or Magistrate, if they so desire. It was also contended

 that the written notices u/s 50 of NDPS Act were also served upon both

 accused persons separately in this regard, however, both the accused

 persons had refused to avail the legal rights and only thereafter the

 recovery was effected from the bodily possession of the accused persons.

 The proceedings and the testimony in respect of the compliance of Section 50 of NDPS Act is believable and there is no reason to discard FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 37/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 26. It was further argued that at the spot the seizure of contraband substance

 was done properly and sealed the parcels and then handed over to SHO

 concerned who complied with the provisions u/s 55 of NDPS Act as he

 affixed his seal on the parcels and the FSL form and put the FIR No after

 taking the same from duty officer and then he deposited the same with

 MHC(M) in the Malkhana, which reflects from the exhibited entry of

 register no 19 of Malkhana which is Ex. PW9/A. The SHO also had

 recorded a DD in this regard. The entry in the register no 19 and the said

 DD has been proved. It was also argued that the report u/s 57 of NDPS

 Act regarding the seizure and arrest also prepared and sent to ACP. The

 said report has also been proved during trial. 27. It was submitted that the contention of defence counsel that the FSL

 form is not available on record and it creates doubt. It was submitted

 byld. Addl PP for State that the FSL form bears the specimen seals of the

 seizure officer and the SHO and the same is meant for the FSL for

 comparison with the seals on the parcels. The FSL form was sent to FSL

 with the sample parcels and as per the acknowledgment of the FSL and

 the result thereof, it is clearly reflected that the samples parcels and the

 sample seals were received in the FSL and the same were intact. It was

 submitted that the FSL form was not on record as it was retained by the FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 38/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 28. Ld. Addl PP for State submitted that as regards the contention of Ld.

 Counsel for accused that the no public witnesses were joined or no efforts

 were made to join the public witnesses. This contention is factually not

 correct because as per the testimony of IOs they had made efforts and

 asked several public persons to join investigation but none of the public

 persons had agreed due to their own reasons and further due to the

 paucity of time no written notice could be served upon them. It was

 further submitted that in such cases, independence evidence is required

 but accused cannot be acquitted merely because non production of

 independence witness. Ld. Addl PP for State placed reliance on Ajmer

 Singh v State of Haryana (2010) 3 SCC 746. 29.Ld. Addl PP for State responded against the contention of non

 compliance of Section 52 A of NDPS Act that Section 51 A of NDPS Act

 is meant for drawing the representative samples of the case property so

 that the remaining case property can be disposed of and the samples

 drawn by the IO at the spot which were sent to FSL is not against the

 provisions, therefore the contention regarding non compliance of Section

 52 A is liable to be ignored. Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: Although there are some minor discrepancies/omission which are bound

 to occur in the testimony of natural witnesses that too recorded after a

 long time about 3 to 5 years. It was thus submitted that the case has been

 proved beyond reasonable doubt and accused persons are liable to be

 held guilty for the offence they are charged with and accused persons

 ought to be convicted. 31. Per contra, Sh. Akshay Bhandari, Ld. Counsel for accused Saleem and

 Sh. Mehraj Chaudhary, Ld. Counsel for accused Dilshad submitted that

 the prosecution did not make a genuine attempt to array the public

 witnesses at the time of investigation and recovery of the contraband

 item. It was further submitted that there has been non compliance of

 mandatory provisions of the NDPS Act . It was submitted that as per law

 the FSL form has to be sent in triplicate. However, in the present case, the

 FSL form has been sent in duplicate. Ld. Counsel for accused submitted

 that the contraband that was purported to be seized by IO during

 investigation, was different than the one produced in the Court for

 identification of the accused by the witness. Ld. Counsel placed reliance

 on Vijay Pandey Vs State of Uttar Pradesh Criminal Appeal no 1143

 of 2019 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court to contend that if there is FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 40/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 32.It was further submitted that the IO did not comply with the mandate of Section 52A of NDPS Act inasmuch as the samples of the contraband

 item were not drawn before a Magistrate. In this context, Ld. Counsel

 placed reliance on the cross examination of the 1st IO PW-10 ASI Krishan

 Kumar, who categorically deposed that he had not drawn the samples in

 the presence of Magistrate but they were drawn in the presence of police

 witnesses. Ld. Counsel also contended that as per the testimony of

 witnesses, there was no FSL form on record. Ld. Counsel for accused

 placed reliance on Matloob Vs State (Delhi Administration 67 (1997)

 DLT 372 to contend that if the FSL form has not been placed on record, a

 reasonable doubt can be inferred qua the case of the prosecution as every

 apprehension of tampering is made out. It was submitted that despite

 questioning the witnesses on the availability of FSL form, the same was

 not brought on record. In this context, Ld. Counsel placed reliance on Radha Kishan Vs State 2000 CrI LJ 4090 to contend that the CFSL

 form is a document which provides valuable safeguard to an accused to

 ensure that no tampering has been done during the intervening period. 33. Ld. Counsel of accused Dilshad submitted that the vehicle in question ie

 Baleno did not belong to accused Dilshad but it belongs to accused FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 41/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 34.It was further submitted by Ld. Counsel for accused Dilshad that police

 officials did not make genuine attempts to make public persons as

 witnesses. Ld. Counsel thus submitted that there are discrepancies in the

 version of prosecution and therefore benefit thereof must enure in favour

 of accused and accused ought to be exonerated. STATEMENT OF REASONS FOR THE DECISION

A. APPREHENSION OF ACCUSED, RECOVERY OF ALLEGED CONTRABAND
FROM THEM & COMPLIANCE OF SECTION 42 OF THE NDPS ACT. 35. The manner in which the accused were apprehended was spelt out in

 detail by the IO/PW-10 ASI Krishan Kumar and recovery witnesses PW-7

 Hc Kuldeep Singh, and PW-11 ASI Jitender. They all deposed in a similar

 vein and averred that on 24.06.2017, when the secret information had

 already been received that accused Saleem and Dilshad will supply FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 42/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 36. The contention of Ld. Counsel for the accused that no public witnesses

 were joined nor notice to any public witness was given to join the

 proceedings, pales into insignificance in light of the fact that PW- 7 HC

 Kuldeep Singh categorically deposed that IO requested 4-5 passerbys to

 join the investigation for searching the accused persons and their vehicle,

 but none of them agreed and left the spot without disclosing their names

 and address. It was elicited in the cross-examination of PW-7 HC

 Kuldeep that the IO did not give notice u/s 160 Cr.PC to the public

 witness who refused to joined proceedings and neither did they tell the

 public witness that they would initiate proceedings u/s 187 IPC if they do FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 43/65 Digitally signed ARUL by ARUL
 VARMA

 VARMA 2023.09.06
 Date: 37. It was thus emphasized by Ld. Counsel for the accused that the police

 officials did not make a genuine attempt to array public witnesses. In this

 context, it is to be borne in mind that the raid took place in the middle of

 the night at around 01:30 AM. It would be wholly unreasonable to expect

 public persons present at that hour, to join such an investigation. It has

 also to be borne in mind that as per testimony of PW-7 HC Kuldeep, the

 raiding team members were in civil clothes. Moreover, keeping in view

 that the accused persons, as per the tip-off received, were themselves

 travelling in a vehicle, the possibility of them escaping was real, and thus

 non service of notice u/s 160 Cr.PC or 187 IPC upon them seemed

 unrealistic due to paucity of time. Significantly, in this context, it would

 be useful to peruse the following extracts of Ajmer Singh v State (supra): 38.Thus, the testimony of police witnesses cannot be disregarded merely on

 account of non joining of public witnesses. 39.It was also contended by Ld. Counsel for accused that it is an admitted

 case of the prosecution that the search of the vehicle was conducted after

 sunset and before sunrise and thus the prosecution was under an

 obligation to comply with the proviso to Section 42 of NDPS Ac i.e. the

 IO ought to have recorded his grounds for belief as to why he had to

 exercise the power of entry and search without warrant or authorization.

 This contention is bereft of any justification inasmuch as the contraband

 substance was recovered from the person of the accused persons i.e from

 the clothes that they were wearing, and contraband was not recovered FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 45/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 40. PW-4 Inspector Manoj Kumar also averred that ASI Krishan Kumar had

 apprised him that the accused persons would be bringing heroine in Car

 no DL3CAG4189 between 01:45 AM to 02:15 AM. PW-4 Inspector

 Manoj Kumar further deposed that he had verified the contents of the

 secret information and had informed the ACP Sh Sanjeev Kumar Tyagi

 telephonically and the ACP had directed conducting of the raid. Thus, it is FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 46/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 41.At this juncture, it would be apt to refer to Section 55 of the NDPS Act: 42.In the present case, Inspector R Sriniwasan, the Officer In charge of PS

 Crime Branch Delhi was examined as PW-2. He categorically deposed

 that on 24.06.2017 at about 06:53AM PW-7 Ct Kuldeep came to his

 office and produced six sealed pullandas marked as A, A1, A2, B, B1 and

 B2 alongwith 2 FSL Forms and 2 carbon copies of seizure memos. He

 deposed that all the above pullandas were sealed with the seal of

 7BPSNB DELHI and the impression of seal was also appearing on both

 the FSL forms. The witness categorically deposed that he thereafter put FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 47/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 43. Thereafter, PW-2 Inspector Sriniwasan called the MHC(M) PW -5ASI

 Jag Narayan alongwith Malkhana Register no 19, handed over all the

 above sealed pullandas, FSL Forms, carbon copies of the seizure memos

 to the MHC(M), and the MHC(M) made an entry in this regard in

 Register no 19. The witness proved the copy of entry no 2611 dated

 24.06.2017 in the Register no 19 as Ex. PW5/A bearing his signatures at

 point-A. The witness also deposed that he had lodged DD No 3 dated

 24.06.2017 at about 07:35 AM in compliance of Section 55 of the NDPS

 Act and proved the same as Ex.PW2/A. 44. The above testimony finds corroboration with the deposition of

 MHC(M) ASI Jag Narayan who was examined as PW-5He categorically

 deposed that on 24.06.2017, when he was the MHC(M) PS Crime

 Branch, he was called by PW-2 Inspector Sriniwas in the office alongwith

 Register no 19. He further deposed that the SHO gave him six pullandas

 no A, A1,A2, B, B1 and B2 alongwith form FSL all having seals of

 7BPSNB DELHI and RSS alongwith 2 carbon copies of seizure memos.

 He too corroborated the fact that entries in this regard were made at serial

 no 2611 dated 24.06.2017 in Register no 19. He also clarified that the

 SHO had signed the entry Ex. PW5/A, bearing signatures of SHO at FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 48/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 45. Thus, as is evident from the above depositions, the prosecution evidence

 clearly discloses that the sealed articles were produced before Officer In-

 charge of the police station, that he had put his seal over those articles

 and there were sent for safe custody in the Malkhana. Thus, there is total

 compliance of Section 55 of NDPS Act in terms of Ashok Kumar Vs

 State of Haryana AIR 2000 SC 3474

C. REPORT UNDER SECTION 57 OF NDPS ACT 46.It would be apposite to refer to Section 57 of the Act, which is

 reproduced hereunder: 47.The legislative intent behind Section 57 of the Act, has been delved upon

 in Megha Ram v State of Rajasthan 1997 Cri LJ 3091 in the following

 words: 48.PW- 12 ASI Pawan Kumar, who was the 2 nd IO deposed that on

 24.06.2017, after registration of the FIR, the investigation was assigned

 to him, and he reached the spot at about 10:15 AM. He deposed that at FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 50/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: PW14/C bearing signatures of the ACP at point-A. He further deposed

 that the receiving of the said report was mentioned at entry no 1319 of

 Diary register and he proved relevant entry as Ex. PW14/D. PW-14 Ct

 Pawan further deposed that on 24.06.2017, one report u/s 57 NDPS Act

 prepared by PW-12 ASI Pawan Kumar, was received in the office of ACP

 on the same date. He proved the original report as Ex. PW14/E bearing

 signatures of the ACP at point-A. He further deposed that the receiving of

 the said report was mentioned at entry no 1320 of Diary register and he

 proved relevant entry as Ex. PW14/F 53. The above testimony was corroborated by ACP himself when he was

 examined as PW-15. He deposed that on 24.06.2017, reports u/s 57 NDPS Act, prepared by ASI Krishan Kumar and ASI Pawan Kumar, were

 put up before him, and he proved the original reports as Ex.PW14/C and

 Ex.PW14/E respectively, and also identified his signatures thereon. FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 52/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 54.Thus, there was in toto compliance of Section 57 of NDPS Act. D. COMPLIANCE OF SECTION 50 NDPS ACT 55.To adjudicate this issue, it would be profitable to refer to Section 50 of

 the Act, which reads as thus: 56.The safeguards mentioned in Section 50 are intended to serve a dual

 purpose- to protect a person against false accusation and frivolous

 charges as also to lend credibility to the search and seizure conducted by

 an empowered officer. 57.In the present case, though there was no submission qua non compliance

 of Section 50 of NDPS Act by the Ld. Counsel for accused, it is pertinent

 to note that nothing was elicited in the cross-examination of the

 prosecution witnesses which could lead to an inference that there was non

 compliance of Section 50 NDPS Act. A perusal of record reveals that

 PW-10 ASI Krishan Kumar had categorically deposed that he had given a

 written notice u/s 50 of NDPS Act in original to accused Saleem, carbon

 copy whereof was Ex. PW7/A bearing signatures of witness at point-B FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 53/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 58. Ld. Counsel for the accused had contended that the FSL form had not

 been proved or filed on record and in such a scenario an adverse

 inference ought to be drawn and tampering cannot be ruled out. In this

 context, Ld. Counsel placed reliance on Matloob (supra) Ld Counsel

 contended that the prosecution had treated the forwarding letter as FSL

 form. In this context, Ld. Counsel placed reliance on Mohd Ibrahim (supra). It was further submitted that a copy of the FSL form ought to

 have been sent by post and a copy ought to have been put inside sealed

 pullanda in terms of the mandate of Radha Kishan (supra) It was lastly

 submitted that the prosecution had not complied with Section 52-A of

 NDPS Act as the samples were not drawn in the presence of Magistrate

 thereby violating the mandate of Simarjeet Singh Vs State (supra). 59. As far as the contention qua non compliance of Section 52 A NDPS Act

 is concerned, it was contended by Ld. Addl PP for State that the said

 provision is only essential for drawing representative samples of the case

 property so that the remaining case property can be disposed of. A perusal

 of Simarjeet Singh (supra) reveals that therein a serious doubt was

 created about the prosecution's case that the substance recovered was a FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 55/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: contraband. The verdict of acquittal was recorded as the case of the

 prosecution was not free from suspicion and the same was not established

 beyond a reasonable doubt. However, in the present case, the prosecution

 has established its case beyond reasonable doubt inasmuch as there has

 been compliance of all the mandatory provisions of law viz. Section 42 , Section 50 , Section 55 and Section 57 NDPS Act coupled with the

 mandatory presumptions u/s 35 and 54 NDPS Act. There is nothing to

 doubt the veracity of the claim of the prosecution and it is not a case

 where trial has been vitiated due to Section 52 A NDPS Act. 60. As far as non availability of FSL form on record is concerned, it was

 submitted by Ld. Addl PP for State that the FSL form was sent to the FSL

 with the sample parcels and the same was duly received in the FSL. The

 sanctity of chain of custody qua deposit of Exhibits in FSL from the

 Malkahan was also duly proved by the prosecution. PW- 8 Ct Sunil

 deposed that on the instructions of the IO, he had taken the case property

 from MHC(M) ie two sealed pullandas bearing mark A1, B1 each duly

 sealed with the seal of 7BPSNB DELHI and RSS alongwith two FSL

 forms and copy of seizure memo to the FSL vide RC No. 181/21 dated

 27.06.2017. He deposed that he deposited the above stated case property

 in FSL Rohini and obtained acknowledgment. Even in his cross

 examination he deposed that he had taken the two FSL forms. The receipt FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 56/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: of inter alia the FSL forms was also categorically affirmed by PW-3, Sh

 Shailender Yadav, Senior Scientific Officer, FSL Rohini. He had deposed

 that he had received two sealed parcels no A1 and B1 duly sealed with

 the seal of 7BPSNB DELHI and RSS through Ct Sunil alongwith

 forwarding letter and two original FSL forms. In the cases cited by Ld.

 Counsel for accused, the ratio was to the effect that it was necessary for

 the prosecution to prove that the CSFL form containing the specimen

 seals which was duly filled at the time of taking the sample also remained

 intact and it reached the office of CFSL alongwith samples. In

 Karamchand (supra) also it was not proved that the FSL form was

 deposited in the Malkhana. However, in the present case, the MHC(M)

 PW-5 ASI Jag Narayan categorically deposed that on 24.06.2017, the

 SHO handed over to him all the pullandas alongwith FSL form and two

 carbon copies of seizure memos and he proved the entry in register no 19

 to this effect as Ex. PW5/A. He further submitted that on 27.06.2017, he

 had sent the parcels alongwith FSL form through Ct Sunil to the FSL vide

 RC No 181/21/17 photocopy whereof was proved as Ex. PW5/C bearing

 his signatures at point-A. He even deposed that the FSL result was

 received in the Malkhana through Ct Pankaj on 14.09.2017. Nothing

 could be elicited in his cross-examination. Thus, the prosecution was able

 to cogently established the sanctity of chain of custody. 61.The FSL report Ex. PW3/A was proved by Sh Shailender Yadav,. FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 57/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 62.It was contended by the State that the accused did not avail the

 opportunity to explain the circumstances appearing in the evidence

 against them, and only put forth a mere bare denial or replied to the

 accusations by merely stating that 'it is incorrect'. they could not explain

 recovery of contraband items from them. The accused did not even put

 forth a plea of alibi. They only averred in their defence that it was a false

 case and that they were innocent. They further deposed that they were

 falsely implicated by the police in this wrong case and that they had no

 knowledge about it. Accused further deposed that nothing was recovered

 from their possession and that it was planted upon them by the police FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 58/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 63.During the course of arguments, Ld. Counsel for accused had sort to

 highlight another supposed inconsistency. It was submitted that it was

 incumbent upon the prosecution to prove that the sample sent to the

 laboratory is the same sample that was drawn from the alleged recovery

 qua the accused. Ld. Counsel placed reliance on Vijay Pandey (supra) to

 contend that since the sample produced in court was not established as

 having been seized from him, then the failure of the prosecution to relate

 the seized sample with that seized from the accused, makes the case no

 different from failure to produce the seized sample itself. Reliance was

 also placed on Noor Aga (supra) to contend that the sample, with only a

 seal, by itself cannot be stated to be one recovered from the accused

 specially when the prosecution case is that it contained signature of

 accused which was not found on the original. It was submitted that in Noor Aga 's (supra) case the independent witnesses did not sign the

 sample and original seal was not produced and it was a mystery to whom

 the seal was entrusted. In this context, Ld. Counsel submitted that the IO

 PW-10 ASI Krishan Kumar and PW-7 HC Kuldeep Singh avowed in their

 cross-examination that the sample pullanda produced in the court did not

 bear the signature of the accused. In his cross-examination, PW-10 ASI

 Krishan Kumar was shown the pullandas and he avowed that it was

 correct that none of the pullandas bore the signatures of the accused FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 59/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 64. It was submitted by Ld. Counsel for accused that the samples that were

 produced in court which were sent to FSL did not have any signatures of

 the accused on the said samples. It was submitted that the prosecution

 has failed to prove that the samples that were sent to the FSL and based

 on which the FSL result opining, the substance to be contraband was

 received, were the same samples that were drawn from the alleged

 recovery made against the accused. It was submitted that the samples

 produced in court bore the signatures of the recovery witnesses PW-7 and

 PW-11. It is pertinent to mention that both the witnesses have admitted

 that neither of them have stated in their statement under section 161 Code

 of Criminal Procedure that they had signed the samples that were drawn

 from the alleged recovery. Therefore, the prosecution has again failed to

 prove that the samples sent to the FSL were the same samples that were

 drawn from the alleged recovery. That the PW-7 and PW-10 in his cross

 examination has admitted that the IO had taken signatures of the accused

 on the pullandas. It was further admitted that the case properties

 identifying in court do not bear the signatures of the accused and that

 PW-7 had further admitted that he did not state in his statement under section 161 Cr.P.C. that he had signed on the Pullandas. It was submitted FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 60/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 65. It was thus submitted that even in the Maal-Khana register, it has not

 been mentioned that in the description of the properties deposited that the

 samples had any signature of the accused or the recovery witnesses,

 which again proves that the samples that were deposited in the Maal-

 Khana were not the same samples that were drawn from the alleged

 recovery. That even in the FSL result it has not been stated that the

 samples received by the FSL had any signatures of the accused on them

 in the description of the samples. Reference in this regard is again made

 to the decision in the case of Noor Aga. 66. In essence, Ld. Counsel for accused submitted that there is inconsistency

 with respect to the presence of signatures of either the accused persons or FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 61/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 67.There is a presumption u/s 54 of the NDPS Act which lays down that in

 trials under the NDPS Act , it may be presumed that the accused has

 committed an offence, unless and until the contrary is proved. The

 expression' unless and until the contrary is proved', clearly imposes the

 burden of proving that possession of prohibited substance is legal, or that

 he was not so found in possession, is on the accused himself. In this case,

 neither the presumption could be rebutted, nor could the accused explain

 the circumstances appearing in evidence against them. 68. Furthermore, u/s 35 of NDPS Act , the Court shall presume the existence

 of a culpable mental state on the part of the accused, and it is incumbent

 upon the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with

 respect to the act. It has further been clarified in Section 35(2) that the

 accused has to prove the above, beyond reasonable doubt and not merely

 by establishing preponderance of probabilities. In the present case, as

 discussed aforesaid, the prosecution surely has established its case

 beyond reasonable doubt but the accused persons could not demonstrate

 that they did not have the requisite culpable mental state. 69. Furthermore, nothing could be elicited in the testimony of the prosecution

 witnesses, and nothing therein could be controverted by the accused. The

 veracity of the testimony of the witnesses was cogent and credible, and

 complete reliance can be placed upon them. In this context, it would be

 pertinent to reproduce the following extracts of Jagjeet Singh Vs State FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 63/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: State of Bihar, (2007) 2 SCC (Cri) 626; Kashmirilal v.
 State of Haryana, (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 441. Appreciating the evidence on record on the anvil of the
 aforesaid principles, there is no acceptable reason to
 discard the testimony of the official witnesses which is
 otherwise reliable and trustworthy." CONCLUSION 70. Ergo, in view of the reasons hereinabove discussed in extenso, this Court

 is of the considered view that the prosecution has proved beyond

 reasonable doubt that the accused Dilshad was found in possession of

 240 Gram on 24.06.2017, at about 02:00 Am Near Sarita Vihar

 underpass on road leading towards Okhla Phase-II New Delhi and is

 therefore convicted for the offence punishable under Section 21(b) of

 NDPS Act. Further, Saleem was found in possession of 260 Gram of

 heroine on 24.06.2017, at about 02:00 Am Near Sarita Vihar underpass

 on road leading towards Okhla Phase-II New Delhi and is therefore FIR No 98/2017 State Vs.Dilshad & Anr. Page No. 64/65 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: Accordingly, copy of this order be sent to the DCP concerned, to do

 the needful. 72. Put for arguments on quantum of sentence on 16.09.2023 Digitally signed by ARUL ARUL VARMA
Announced in the open court VARMA Date: