Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been named as accused for the
 offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B of IPC and under Section 3(D), 1, 2/4 of the M.P.
 Manyata Prapt Pariksha Act, 1997 in connection with Crime
 No.6/14 registered at Police Station STF, Bhopal pertaining to
 VYAPAM scam cases. The applicant is the beneficiary of the unfair means
 adopted during the examination conducted by VYAPAM in
 2013, for appointment to the post of Constable. The father of
 the applicant through Devesh Tyagi and Pankaj Tiwari
 arranged for the impersonator to appear in place of the
 applicant during the said examination. The said two
 middlemen Devesh Tyagi and Pankaj Tiwari, in turn, took help
 of Sarvendra Yadav who arranged for the impersonator
 Parikshit Yadav. It is not in dispute that Devesh Tyagi, Pankaj Tiwari and
 Sarvendra Yadave have been arrested. As also father of the
 applicant Prabhudayal Tyagi has been arrested. All of them are
 presently in custody in connection with the alleged offence. As
 regards the applicant, even the trial Court has found that he did
 not directly interact with any middleman or the impersonator.
His father took initiative in that behalf and contacted the
middlemen Devesh Tyagi and Pankaj Tiwari. In that sense, the
case is similar to the case of Vasudev Tyagi, another
beneficiary in VYAPAM Examination who has already been
granted bail. The applicant is, therefore, entitled for parity as in
the case Vasudev Tyagi. In the present case, as aforesaid
charge-sheet has been filed against the applicant which
presupposes that the investigation against the applicant is
complete, unless further investigation may become necessary
if new material comes on record. The respondent through counsel in all fairness submits
that further custody of the applicant is not required for the
purpose of investigation of the case against him. The applicant through counsel assures that as and when
his presence is required by the Investigating Officer, he shall
make himself available in the Office of the Investigating
Officer even at short notice. Moreover, the applicant will
punctually attend the Court proceedings and cooperate for
early disposal of the trial. Taking overall view, in the interest of justice, the
application is allowed on following conditions to be strictly
observed by the applicant:- (Rupees One Lac) with two solvent local sureties
 in the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial
 Court for his regular appearance during the trial
 in connection with Crime No.06/14 in Police
 Station S.T.F. Bhopal; (2) The applicant shall also comply with the
 conditions enumerated under Section 437 (3) of
 Cr.P.C. meticulously; and
 (3) Additionally, the applicant will report to the
 nearest Police Station where he would reside in
 Tehsil Jaura, District - Muraina (M.P.) once a
 week on every Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to
 12:00 noon unless required to attend the office of
 the Investigating Officer at Bhopal on that day.
 The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.