1. G.A No. 725 of 2019 in C.S No. 50 of 2019 and G.A 733 of 2019 in C.S
 No. 51 of 2019 are both taken up for hearing simultaneously as the
 two applications are relating to similar cause of action in relation to the
 same plaintiff/company (hereinafter referred to as "the petitioner") and
 a common defendant. In C.S 50 of 2019 the common defendant is the
 defendant no. 5 while in C.S 51 of 2019 the common defendant is
 defendant no. 2. This defendant is the employee of the plaintiff
 company (hereinafter referred to as "the employee"). Defendant no. 1 in
 C.S 50 of 2019 is a partnership firm while defendants 2 to 4 are the
 partners of the above partnership firm. These defendants were acting
 as distributors for various goods of the plaintiff company under the
 flagship brand of "Tata Paras". Similarly in C.S 51 of 2019 the
 defendant no. 1 is the distributor company. The defendant no. 1 to 4 in
 C.S No. 50 of 2019 and the defendant no. 1 in C.S 51 of 2019 are
 hereinafter referred to, for the sake of convenience, singularly as "the
 distributor no. 1" and "the distributor no. 2" respectively and jointly as
 "the distributors". 2. At the very outset, it is to be stated that this matter is being heard at
 the ad interim stage. I had given an option to the defendants in both
 the suits to file short affidavits providing an undertaking that they 3 shall not alienate their immovable property pending disposal of the
 interlocutory applications. However, the defendants refused to do so
 and desired to argue the matter out without filing any affidavits as they
 were unwilling to give any undertaking at this stage. 3. The brief facts of the case are narrated below to come to a proper
 understanding of the present matter:- Upon this, the representative of the distributor no. 2, of his own
 free will and without any protest, acknowledged receipt of excess
 credit notes and offered to refund the same in instalments. The
 representative of the distributor no. 2 had also admitted that in
 August 2017, excess credit notes of Rs. 69,27,600/- (Annexure 'H'
 of G.A. No. 733 of 2019) had been credited to the distributor no. 2
 by the employee. The representative of the distributor no. 2 had
 stated in his admission letter dated February 19, 2018 that out of
 the said sum of Rs. 69,27,600/-, a sum of Rs. 9,05,161/- had
 already been paid by the distributor no. 2 to the petitioner. The
 representative of the distributor no. 2 also undertook and agreed to
 pay the balance sum of Rs. 60,22,439/- in monthly instalments of
 Rs. 5,00,000/-. However, the distributor no. 2 failed and neglected
 to make repayments of the excess credit notes received illegally
 through the employee. N. By a letter dated March, 27, 2018 (Annexure 'I' of G.A. No. 733 of
 2019), issued to the distributor no. 2, the petitioner, on the basis of
 further enquiry, informed the distributor no. 2 that excess credit
 received by the distributor no. 2 during the financial years 2014-15 8 to 2017-18 (till June 2017) was to the tune of Rs. 2,49,87,636/-.
 The petitioner, along with the letter of March 27, 2018, had also
 forwarded a reconciled ledger statement, after making adjustments
 to subsequent payments made by the distributor no. 2. O. The dealings between the petitioner and the distributor from July,
 2017 till the time the petitioner stopped business with the
 distributor no. 2, resulted in total adjustments and payments of a
 sum of Rs. 3,66,06,076/- being made by the distributor no. 2 to
 the petitioner and the petitioner supplying goods worth a total sum
 of Rs. 3,22,28,115/- to the distributor no. 2. Upon making
 adjustments, including of the repayments made by the distributor
 no. 2, a total sum of Rs. 43,77,961/- remained to the credit of the
 distributor no. 2 with respect to such dealings. The petitioner did
 not refund such sum to the distributor no. 2 and instead adjusted
 the same towards its outstanding from the distributor no. 2
 referred to in para N above. P. KPMG, the audit firm entrusted with carrying on the investigation
 issued its report on March 20, 2018. With respect to the employee
 the KPMG report revealed the following :- 50 lakhs from his VISA Regalia credit card. c) The employee had made aggregate cash deposits in excess of
 Rs. 64 lakhs during the period of demonetization, that is,
 between November, 2016 and January, 2017. d) Income tax returns of the employee for the assessment years
 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 reflect gross total income of only
 Rs. 6,95,160/- and Rs. 7,69,284/- respectively. e) The employee had made aggregate payments in excess of Rs.
 45 lakhs towards premia for insurance policies. f) The employee had invested aggregate sum of excess of Rs. 32
 lakhs towards mutual funds and fixed deposits. g) Equity transactions of around Rs. 3.42 crores had been
 carried out in the account of Pradip Kumar Singh (the father of
 the employee) in the financial year 2016-2017. h) The employee had purchased jewellery worth around Rs. 47
 lakhs using his credit card and bank accounts. i) Public provident funds deposits in excess of Rs. 4 lakhs had
 been made by the employee during the material time. Q. The KPMG report further revealed various emails exchanged
 between the employee and the distributors that clearly revealed
 that excess credit notes had been issued by the employee and the
 difference between the actual credit notes and the excess credit
 notes were clearly indicated in the statements exchanged. The
 above emails indicated the exact amount of excess credit being
 passed on and the same being recorded. R. The plaintiff company filed a criminal complaint on April 26, 2018
 against the distributors and the employee under Section 120B , 10 406 , 408 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 477A of the Indian Penal Code,
 1860. S. In the meantime, the plaintiff company appointed BDO India LLP
 (hereinafter referred to as "BDO") to identify the gross discrepancies
 in accounts and the fraud and also conduct forensic audit in
 relation to the excess credit note scam that had been discovered
 earlier. The BDO prepared its final report and submitted the same
 to the plaintiff company on February 4, 2019. The BDO report
 identified the amount of excess credit notes during the financial
 years 2014-2015 to 2017-2018 (till June, 2017). The findings of the
 BDO report with regard to the excess credit notes are provided
 below in relation to both the suits:- 4. Mr. S. N. Mookherjee, Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the
 plaintiffs in both the suits has placed the documents that specifically
 highlighted the alleged fraud committed by the distributors and the
 employee. He put specific reliance on the emails exchanged between
 the employee and the distributors from 2014 to 2017 and indicated
 that each contained a chart which specifically stated the amount of
 rebate that the distributors were entitled to, the amount actually given
 to the distributors and the difference between the two. He submitted
 that these emails had been obtained from the computer of the 12 employee by forensic examination carried out by experts. He,
 thereafter, highlighted the contents of the reports given by KPMG and
 BDO, the first highlighting the modus operandi and the second
 quantifying the exact excess rebate/credit received by the distributors
 based on the collusion and fraud of the distributors and the employee.
 He, thereafter, submitted that the price circulars were regularly issued
 by the plaintiff to all its distributors and was well known to all of them,
 as the entire basis for granting rebates/credit and thereafter making
 payments, was based on the said price circulars. He submitted that
 any plea stating contrary to the factual aspect that the distributors
 were not aware of the price circulars is absurd, unbelievable and
 ludicrous. Mr. Mookherjee, thereafter placed the documents with
 regard to the admissions made by the defendants as also their
 willingness to refund certain amounts. Mr. Mookherjee indicated that
 payments were made by the distributors on an ad hoc basis and the
 same amounted to a further admission on their part that excess credit
 had been obtained by them. He also placed the subsequent retraction
 by the distributor no. 1 and submitted that the retraction was an
 afterthought and contained preposterous statements such as the
 distributor no. 2 was not aware of the price circulars. He further
 submitted that the distributor no. 2 was evasive and had no
 explanation with regard to the minutes and excess credit statement
 emailed to him on November 17, 2017. He further relied upon the
 balance confirmations that were issued by the petitioner that were
 never disputed by the distributors. Mr. Mookherjee thereafter placed
 the list of immovable properties owned by the distributor no. 1
 (Annexure 'DD' in G.A. No. 725 of 2019) and the distributor no. 2
 (Annexure 'R' in G.A. No. 733 of 2019). 5. With regard to the employee, Mr. Mookherjee placed all the documents
 annexed to the petition that revealed the assets of the employee as also
 the cash deposits and credit card expenses of the employee. He
 submitted that the annual compensation of the employee when his 13 service was terminated was only Rs. 11 lakhs and such substantial
 assets and cash deposits clearly indicate that these are the ill gotten
 gains received by way of kick-backs from the distributors. He further
 relied on the admissions of the employee wherein he had admitted to
 the fact of having received 25 per cent of the excess credits as kick-
 backs from the distributors as also the letter wherein the employee had
 offered to the plaintiff as security a flat owned by the employee and his
 wife. 6. Mr. Mookherjee submitted that in the present fact scenario, where a
 clear cut prima facie case of fraud has been established in the
 interlocutory application, an ad interim injunction is required to be
 issued for protection of the petitioner. He submitted that the
 fraudulent conduct of the respondents in the dealings with the
 petitioner makes it imperative for this Court to protect and secure the
 petitioner. He submitted that the petitioner had great apprehension
 that the respondents would alienate/transfer their properties in a
 manner that shall make the fruits of the decree nonexistent. 7. On the legal issues, Mr. Mookherjee firstly submitted that in the
 present fact scenario, where a prima facie fraud case has been
 established, the Court has the power to pass an injunction as per Section 94 read with Order 39 Rule 1(b). He further submitted that a
 chartered High Court has plenary jurisdiction and inherent powers to
 pass any orders to subserve justice, equity and good conscience. He
 relied on Section 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter
 referred to as "the Code") to submit that the Code preserves the
 inherent powers of the High Court and therefore, the High Court in its
 jurisdiction can go beyond the contours of the Code for the ends of
 justice. He relied on Manohar Lal Chopra -v- Rai Bahadur Rao Raja
 Seth Hiralal [Coram: K. N. Wanchoo, K. C. Das Gupta, J. C. Shah and
 Raghubar Dayal, JJ.] reported in AIR 1962 SC 527; Bhagat Singh
 Bugga -v- Dewan Jagbir Sawhney [Coram: Lort. Williams, J.] reported 14 in ILR 1941 1 Cal 490; Chinese Tannery Owners' Association and
 others -v- Makhan Lal and others [Coram: Das Gupta and Lahiri, JJ.]
 reported in AIR 1952 Cal 560; M. V. Elisabeth and others -v-
 Harwan Investment & Trading Pvt. Ltd., Hanoekar House,
 Swatontapeth, Vasco-De-Gama, Goa [Coram: T. K. Thommen and R.
 M. Sahai, JJ.] reported in AIR 1993 SC 1014; Sourav Ganguly -v-
 Mahuaa Media Pvt. Ltd. [Coram: Sanjib Banerjee, J.] reported in
 2015(4) CHN (CAL) 509; Abheya Realtors Private Limited -v- SSIPL
 Retail Limited & Anr. [Coram: Sanjib Banerjee, J.] reported in
 2010(2) CHN (CAL) 203 to buttress his argument. He, thereafter,
 relied upon Nanda Roy & Ors. -v- Gynanidhi Trust & Ors. [Coram: 8. Mr. Aniruddha Roy, counsel appearing on behalf of the distributor no.
 1 submitted that the petitioner had discovered the alleged
 discrepancies and fraud in 2016, and thereafter in July of 2017, but
 had chosen to file the suit belatedly on 5th March, 2019. He submitted 15 that an order of injunction is an equitable relief and the same stands
 defeated due to immense delay caused by the plaintiff. He further
 submitted that the claim of the plaintiff against the respondent is a
 simpliciter unsecured money claim that has till date not been
 crystallized. He submitted that the case made out in the plaint requires
 a full fledged trial and no interim order seeking any kind of
 protection/security at this stage can be passed. 9. Mr. Roy submitted that the various entries and materials that have
 been annexed to the interlocutory application have been obtained
 allegedly from the laptop of the employee and the same are not within
 the knowledge or notice of the distributor no. 1. As such all these
 materials are required to be proved in a trial and cannot be accepted
 as sacrosanct without according an opportunity to the distributor no. 1
 to examine its truth and correctness. With regard to the reports of the
 KPMG and BDO he submitted that the distributor no. 1 has a right to
 challenge the experts' opinion and the same can only be done at the
 time of trial. With regard to the minutes of the meeting dated
 November 14, 2017 he submitted that none of the respondents had
 signed the said minutes, and therefore, the document is a fabricated
 and manufactured document produced by the plaintiff. He submitted
 that the original minutes that had been signed by the respondent no. 3
 has deliberately not been disclosed before the court. With regard to the
 two purported handwritten documents both dated February 9, 2018,
 Mr. Roy submitted that these documents had been obtained by the
 plaintiff by resorting to undue influence, duress and coercion. He
 further submitted that by letter dated February 14, 2018 the above two
 letters had been retracted and therefore, no reliance can be placed
 upon the letters dated February 9, 2018. He submitted that on a plain
 reading of the two letters it is clear that the same were obtained under
 duress. Mr. Roy concluded his submission on the factual aspects by
 submitting that as the facts are disputed, no prima facie case is made
 out by the petitioner. 10. On the legal aspects, Mr. Roy submitted that in a money claim the
 settled position of law is that no injunction can be granted unless it
 satisfies the test of Order 39, Rule 1(b) read with Section 94 of the
 Code. He submitted that the court can restrain the defendants from
 disposing of the property which is not the subject matter of the suit
 only if it appears that the defendant intends or threatens to dispose of
 the property with a view to defraud his creditors. He submitted that in
 the present case no such averments or material is present in the plaint
 and/or in the application for injunction. With regard to attachment
 before judgment as prescribed under Order 38, Rule 5 of the Code, he
 submitted that the tests laid down by the Supreme Court in the matter
 of Raman Tech and Process Engg. Co. and Another -v- Solanki
 Traders [Coram: R.V. Raveendran and P. Sathasivam, JJ.] reported in
 (2008) 2 SCC 302 have to be satisfied. He put reliance on Premraj
 Mundra -v- Md. Manek Gazi & ors. [Coram: Sinha, J.] reported in AIR
 1951 Cal 156 that had been approved in Raman Tech (supra). He
 submitted that no averments were present in the interlocutory petition
 that would satisfy the test of Order 38, Rule 5 of the Code. 11. With respect to the inherent powers provided in Section 151 of the
 Code, Mr. Roy submitted that these powers do not operate over
 substantive rights of a litigant. He submitted that the defendants have
 substantive rights over their immovable and movable properties
 guaranteed under the Constitution of India and no court has the
 inherent powers to forcibly seize such property, as such an action
 would invade into the substantive rights of a citizen, and the same is
 not permissible under Section 151 of the Code. To buttress his
 arguments as made above, he relied on Sunil Kakrania & Ors. -v-
 M/s. Saltee Infrastructure Ltd. and another [Coram: Bhaskar
 Bhattacharya and Prasenjit Mandal, JJ.] reported in AIR 2009 Cal 260
 and Kohinoor Steel Private Ltd. -v- Pravesh Chandra Kapoor
 [Coram: J. N. Patel, C.J. and Bhaskar Bhattacharya, J.] reported in AIR 17 2011 Cal 29. Mr. Roy further relied on Padam Sen & Anr. -v- State
 of Uttar Pradesh [Coram: Jafer Imam, A. K. Sarkar and Raghubar
 Dayal, JJ.] reported in AIR 1961 SC 218 and M/s Ram Chand &
 Sons Sugar Mills Private Ltd., Barabanki (U.P.) -v- Kanhayalal
 Bhargava and Others [Coram: K. Subba Rao and V. Ramaswami, JJ.]
 reported in AIR 1966 SC 1899 to advance the proposition that the
 inherent powers of the court are only in relation to procedural aspects,
 as courts derive this power from their own practice and procedure. He
 submitted that this inherent power cannot be utilized in contravention
 of the provisions of the Code, and specifically, for the purpose of
 seizing the property of a party which is a substantive right of a party.
 He submitted that the inherent powers under Section 151 of the Code
 are mainly to prevent the abuse of the process of a court. He relied on
 Vareed Jacob -v- Sosamma Geevarghese & Ors. [Coram: V. N.
 Khare, C. J. and S. B. Sinha and S. H. Kapadia, JJ.] reported in (2004)
 6 SCC 378 to submit that the powers expressly conferred under Section 151 of the Code is in addition to and the supplementary to the
 powers conferred under the CPC but the power cannot be exercised in
 conflict with any of the powers expressly or by implication conferred by
 other provisions of the Code. 12. The next point pleaded by Mr. Roy was that the court cannot travel
 beyond the pleadings filed by a party and the relief granted by the
 court has to be based on the pleadings and nothing beyond. He relied
 on Union of India -v- Ibrahim Uddin [Coram: Dr. B. S. Chauhan and
 Dipak Misra, JJ.] reported in (2012) 8 SCC 148 to support the above
 proposition. He further submitted that the plaintiff has resorted to
 suppression of material facts, and therefore, the ratio in S.P
 Chengalvaraya Naidu (Dead) by LRS -v- Jagannath (Dead) by LRS
 & Ors. [Coram: Kuldip Singh and P. B. Sawant, JJ.] reported in (1994)
 1 SCC 1 should be applied. He submitted that the Supreme Court in
 this judgment had clearly held that one who seeks equity must
 approach the court with clean hands. He further submitted that the 18 particular case involved disputed questions of facts and the same
 cannot be adjudicated without a proper trial. He submitted that it is
 settled law that the court shall refrain from passing any discretionary
 and equitable relief when disputed questions of facts are present. He
 placed reliance on Air India Ltd. & Ors. -v- Vishal Capoor & Ors.
 [Coram: Ruma Pal, Dr. Ar. Lakshmanan and C. K. Thakker, JJ.] reported
 in (2005) 13 SCC 42 in support of the above proposition. 13. With regard to the powers of a Chartered High Court, he submitted
 that Clause 19 of the Letters Patent provides and empowers this Court
 to apply law and equity in a particular case to pass necessary orders.
 However, he submitted that as in the present case, the law in relation
 to money claims is well settled by two Division Bench judgments of this
 Court, the same operate as a binding precedent on this Court. He
 submitted that when law is settled and has a binding effect it is only
 the law which shall prevail and equity shall have no place to play. He
 further submitted that when there is a conflict between law and equity
 it is the law who has to prevail in accordance with the Latin maxim
 "dura lex sed lex", which means "the law is hard, but it is law". He
 submitted that equity can only supplement the law but it cannot
 supplant or override it. He relied on Council for Indian School
 Certificate Examination -v- Isha Mittal & Anr. [Coram: S.P.
 Bharucha, Ruma Pal and Shivaraj V. Patil, JJ.] reported in (2000) 7
 SCC 521 and Raghunath Rai Bareja & Anr. -v- Punjab National
 Bank & Ors. [Coram: S.B. Sinha and Markandey Katju, JJ.] reported in
 (2007) 2 SCC 230 in support of the above proposition. 14. He concluded his arguments by distinguishing Manohar Lal Chopra
 (supra) that had been relied upon by the plaintiffs submitting that in
 the said judgment the subject matter involved was an anti-suit
 injunction. He submitted that the principles laid down there were
 framed to prevent the abuse of the process of court, and therefore,
 cannot be applied in the present fact situation. He submitted that 19 injunction on a substantive right is not permitted. He concluded by
 submitting that the two Division Bench judgment of the Calcutta High
 Court are directly applicable in the facts and circumstances of the
 present case and Manohar Lal Chopra (supra) has no application in
 the facts and circumstances of this case. 15. Mr. Jishnu Chowdhury appearing on behalf of the distributor no. 2
 submitted that delay in approaching the court is a good ground for
 refusal of interim relief and relied on Zenit Mataplast Private
 Limited -v- State of Maharashtra and Others [Coram: Altamas Kabir
 and Dr. B. S. Chauhan, JJ.] reported in (2009) 10 SCC 388 to buttress
 his argument. He, thereafter, placed paragraphs 17 and 18 of the
 Supreme Court judgment in State of H.P. -v- Jai Lal and Others
 [Coram: K. T. Thomas and D. P. Mohapatra, JJ.] reported in (1999) 7
 SCC 280 to submit that an expert is not a witness of fact and his
 evidence is that in the nature of an advisory character. He submitted
 that the reports filed by the plaintiff cannot be taken into account
 unless the same is subject to cross-examination in trial. He further
 relied on Keshav Dutt -v- State of Haryana [Coram: Altamas Kabir
 and Dr. M. K. Sharma, JJ.] reported in (2010) 9 SCC 286 to show that
 even a handwriting expert has to be examined as an expert witness
 and without doing so no reliance can be placed upon his opinion. He,
 thereafter, placed paragraphs 17, 25, 29 and 30 of a Calcutta High
 Court judgment in Boeing Company -v- R.M. Investment and
 Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. [Coram: K. C. Agarwal, C.J. and M. G. Mukerjee,
 J.] reported in (1994) 2 Cal Lt 300 (HC) to submit that the inherent
 powers preserved by Section 151 of the Code are only to be used with
 respect to procedure and cannot be used to take away the substantive
 rights of a litigant. He further relied on a Calcutta High Court decision
 in Badal Chandra Kundu and Ors. -v- Netai Mahato and Ors. (C.O.
 3813 of 2017) [Coram: Biswajit Basu, J.] and placed paragraph 19 to
 explain the functioning of Sections 94 and 151 read with Order 39,
 Rule 1 and 2. Mr. Chowdhury also referred to Premraj Mundra 20 (supra), Vareed Jacob (supra) and Manohar Lal Chopra (supra) to
 buttress his argument that the powers under Section 151 of the Code
 cannot be used to affect the substantive rights of a litigant. Mr.
 Chowdhury thereafter produced a document issued by the plaintiff to
 the respondent no. 1 with reference to region Murshidabad to indicate
 that on 14th of February, 2018 the outstanding closing balance was
 only Rs. 25 lakhs odd. He submitted that the earlier admissions of the
 distributor to Rs. 69 lakhs odd was explained by this document. He
 argued that post admission documents may destroy the admission,
 thereby, rendering a situation where the admission cannot be relied
 upon. He referred to paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of a Calcutta High Court
 judgment in Scope Vincom Industries Private Limited -v- Sitaram
 Sultania [Coram: Sanjib Banerjee and Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, JJ.]
 in (GA No. 3872 of 2017) in support of his above submission. 16. Mr. Anirban Ray, counsel appearing on behalf of the employee placed
 relevant paragraphs of the plaint before me to indicate that the plaintiff
 had continued to do business with the distributors in spite of discovery
 of the alleged fraud having been committed in the year 2017. He
 further submitted that the documents relating to the assets of the
 employee do not reveal any link between the alleged kickback money
 and the said assets. He further submitted that the petitioner in the
 plaint only seeks loss and damages against the employee, and
 therefore, the claim is in the nature of a money decree for
 unascertained and unliquidated damages. He further submitted that it
 was very well known to the plaintiff that the employee had other
 businesses and therefore, at the ad interim stage, there was no manner
 in which the assets of the employee could be traced to the alleged
 fraud. With regard to the admission made by the employee and the
 offer by the employee of securing the plaintiff's claim by way of offering
 a flat owned by the employee and his wife, he submitted that the
 letters relied upon by plaintiffs had been obtained by coercion and
 under duress. He further relied on a letter dated June 25, 2018 issued 21 by the employee that had stated that under duress and coercion his
 signatures and scribes had been obtained on several documents by the
 representatives of the petitioner. 17. Mr. Ray further submitted that the plaint itself runs an alternative and
 inconsistent plea of mistake having been committed by the plaintiff. He
 submitted that such an inconsistent plea by itself destroys the very
 foundation of the primary plea of fraud that has been made by the
 petitioner in the plaint. Mr. Anirban Roy, thereafter, painstakingly
 placed in great detail the judgments of the Supreme Court in
 Manoharlal Chopra (supra), Ramantech (supra) and Vinod Seth -v-
 Devinder Bajaj and Another [Coram: R.V. Raveendran and R.M.
 Lodha, JJ.] reported in 2010 (8) SCC 1 and the two Calcutta High
 Court judgments of the Division Bench in Sunil Kakrania (supra)
 and Kohinoor Steel Private Ltd. (supra) to repeat and reiterate the
 submissions made by Mr. Aniruddha Roy and Mr. Jishnu Chowdhury.
 The sum and substance of his submissions were that in the present
 factual matrix, this Court does not have any power to pass any
 injunction and/or attachment even if the Court comes to the finding
 that a prima facie case of fraud has been committed by the defendants.
 He reiterated the principles in relation to attachment and injunction
 and submitted that where specific provisions are provided in the Code,
 the Court cannot travel beyond the Code under any circumstances. He
 further relied on the Supreme Court judgment in Jaisri Sahu -v-
 Rajdewan Dubey and Others [Coram: P.B. Gajendragadkar, K.N.
 Wanchoo, K.C. Das Gupta and T.L. Venkatarama Aiyar, JJ.] reported in
 AIR 1962 SC 83 to emphasize on the Doctrine of Precedents to submit
 that this Court is bound by the two Division Bench Judgments of the
 Calcutta High Court relating to issue of an injunction in the case of a
 money claim. 18. I have heard counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff and the
 respondents in both the suits and perused the documents filed by the 22 plaintiff in the interlocutory applications filed before me. I have also
 gone through a bunch of documents filed by Mr. Aniruddha Roy
 appearing on behalf of the distributor no. 1. Mr. Jishnu Chowdhury,
 counsel appearing on behalf of the distributor no. 2 has also filed a few
 ledger statements before me. I have to note that the documents filed by
 the respondents were by means of simply handing over the documents
 and the same are not supported by any affidavit whatsoever. As
 pointed out earlier, the respondents chose not to file affidavits in the
 matter in spite of the Court's inclination to call for affidavits with a
 undertaking from the defendants not to alienate their property. 19. The key documents, in my view, are the emails that have been
 exchanged between the employee and the distributors that lucidly
 reveal the modus operandi adopted by the respondents. These
 documents starting from page 671 to 690 in G.A No. 725 of 2019 and
 pages 658 to 661 of G. A. 733 of 2019 reveal the discounts payable to
 the distributors, the actual discounts given to the distributors and the
 difference/excess credit given to the distributors. Unfortunately,
 counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents have completely
 skipped any reference to these documents in their submissions, except
 stating that these documents would be admissible only at the trial and
 cannot be the basis for any ad interim order. I categorically reject this
 submission of the respondents as the same is without any basis in law.
 These emails and attachments have been obtained from the computer
 of the employee and I find no reason to disbelieve the same at the ad
 interim stage. 20. The second set of documents that are relevant are the admissions
 made by the respondent no. 3 in G. A. No. 725 of 2019 (Annexure 'I'
 and Annexure 'L') dated February 9, 2018, admission of distributor no.
 2 (Annexure 'H' in G. A. No. 735 of 2019) dated 19th February, 2018,
 the admissions of the employee on July 25, 2017 and in the two letters 23 dated February 8, 2018 (Annexure 'E', 'J', 'K' in G. A. No. 725 of 2019)
 and the offer of employee to secure the plaintiff by a letter handed over
 on February 12, 2018 (Annexure 'M' in G. A. No. 725 of 2019). It is to
 be noted that the admissions made by the respondent no. 3 in C. S. 50 of 2019 were retracted on February 14, 2018 by an email sent by the
 respondent no. 3. In this letter, the respondent no. 3 stated that the
 distributor no. 1 was not aware of the price circulars by which the
 method of calculation or allocation of cash discounts, freights and
 other heads were given by the petitioner. The letter further recorded
 that in a meeting dated 14th November, 2017 he had sought for details
 of the excess credits so that he could reconcile the same at his end.
 The letter further explained the ad hoc payments of Rs. 1,50,00,000/-
 made on various dates and also stated that both the letters of February
 9, 2018 had been issued by the respondent no. 3 under duress and
 threat. 21. With regard to the admission made by the distributor no. 2 on 19th
 February, 2018, there is no retraction whatsoever. However, Mr.
 Jishnu Chowdhury, counsel appearing on behalf of the said
 respondent produced certain documents to show that the admitted
 amount of Rs. 64 lakhs odd had been refunded by the respondents,
 and in fact, it was the plaintiff that owed money to the defendant. With
 regard to the employee, a letter was issued by him on June 25, 2018
 (Annexure 'A' of supplementary affidavit in G. A. No. 725 of 2019), four
 months after the admissions made by him on February 9, 2018. In this
 letter, he states that upon grave threat and duress the company
 officials of the plaintiff had obtained his signatures and scribe over
 various documents. It is to be noted that this letter has been issued by
 him subsequent to his termination on April 30, 2018 and a criminal
 case having been filed against him along with the other respondents on
 May 1, 2018. 22. The third set of documents relied heavily by the plaintiff are the two
 reports submitted by KPMG and BDO. I have gone through the same
 meticulously and I find that the two reports clearly unveil and lay
 thread bare the modus operandi adopted by the respondents in the
 alleged fraud and also quantify the exact amount of excess credit
 passed on by the employee to the distributors. Both these reports are
 based on documents extracted from the computer that was operated by
 the employee and are categorical in the ultimate finding reached
 therein that by a mechanism of fraud and collusion between the
 distributors and the employee, the plaintiff has been defrauded of a
 substantial amount of money by way of excess credit having been
 passed on to the distributors by the employee. 23. At the ad interim stage, I am required to come to a prima facie finding
 based on the documents that are brought before me by the plaintiff.
 The plaintiff in both the interlocutory petitions reveals the collusion
 and fraud committed by the employee along with the distributors and
 the same is highlighted by the exchange of emails between them that
 clearly indicates (a) the actual credit that was to be given (b), the
 fraudulent credit passed and (c) the difference between the two. These
 documents are unimpeachable. Based upon these emails and the price
 circulars exchanged during the relevant time, the audit report of BDO
 clearly chalks out the amount of excess credit that was passed by the
 employee to the distributors. It is to be noted that the distributor no. 2
 never retracted his admission given on February 19, 2018 and the
 employee retracted his admission after four months, that is, after he
 was terminated from the service. This retraction on June 25, 2018 by
 the employee is obviously an afterthought and holds no water. With
 regard to the admissions of the distributor no. 1 the same were
 retracted after five days. However, this retraction does not explain the
 meeting held on 14th November, 2017. Furthermore, this retraction
 speaks about the distributor no. 1 not being aware of price circulars
 during the relevant period. This statement in the retraction is 25 absolutely unbelievable, and accordingly, reduces the weightage of the
 entire retraction. Is it conceivable that a dealer who has been working
 with the petitioner and receiving discounts and rebates for almost two
 decades is not aware of the basis of the said discounts? In my opinion,
 such a situation cannot be conceivable in the commercial world.
 Furthermore, the exchange of emails from pages 651 to 690 in G.A. No.
 725 of 2019 completely denounces the stand of the distributor no. 1.
 Hence, at this ad interim stage no reliance can be placed on this
 retraction. On a careful examination of the documents as indicated
 above, I am of the clear view, as one needs to be at an ad interim stage,
 that fraud has been committed by the respondents on the petitioner. 24. In fact, the irregular manner in which the respondents have sought to
 hand over documents before this Court to obfuscate the case of the
 plaintiff has further strengthened my view. Mr. Jishnu Chowdhury
 appearing on behalf of the distributor no. 2 handed over a customer
 ledger for the period of February 1, 2018 to February 28, 2018 of the
 petitioner company in relation to the distributor no. 2 that showed that
 the outstanding closing balance was Rs. 25,71,639.62/-. He, however,
 could not explain the letter issued by the petitioner to the distributor
 no. 1 on March 27, 2018 (Annexure 'I' of G.A. No. 733 of 2019) wherein
 the petitioner had clearly indicated the excess credit for the relevant
 years to the tune of Rs. 2,49,87,636/-. The distributor no. 2 was
 unable to produce any document that was written in reply to the letter
 of the petitioner dated March 27, 2018. In relation to the distributor
 no. 1, Mr. Aniruddha Roy filed a bunch of documents that I have
 considered in great detail. The emails dated November 27, 2017,
 January 16, 2018, January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2018 (Annexure
 'A', 'B', 'C' and 'D' of the list of documents) only indicates that the
 distributor no. 1 was seeking more time to reconcile the accounts with
 the petitioner. These emails only demonstrate different excuses made
 by the distributor no. 1 explaining his inability to reconcile the
 accounts. Annexure 'E' in the list of documents contains undated 26 documents wherein the distributor no. 1 has disputed the balance
 payable by them to the petitioner. These documents being undated and
 containing no proof that the same were even sent to the petitioner
 cannot be relied upon by me at this stage. The other documents
 annexed to the list of documents filed by the Aniruddha Roy also do
 not throw any light on the matter in hand. The documents produced
 by the respondents clearly bear no substance whatsoever and were
 easily explained by Mr. S. N. Mookherjee in his reply. In fact on closer
 examination of these documents, I am of the view that the respondents
 have made their case far worse. The documents that have been handed
 over to this Court clearly indicate that the respondents have attempted
 to muddy the waters and befuddle the Court as these documents do
 not assist them in any manner. This attempt of the respondents to
 create a cumulonimbus cloud to confuse this Court was not expected
 and amounts to a churlish act, to put it euphemistically. The above
 acts, in my view was nothing but legal boondoggling, if one may use an
 American expression, and has consequently boomeranged on the
 respondents. 25. The question that arises now is whether the plaintiff is entitled to be
 secured for such a fraud that has been played on it. The contention of
 the respondents is that in a money decree for an unliquidated sum of
 damages no protection can be granted to a plaintiff. Before deciding on
 the legal issues that arise in this matter, I would like to pen down the
 relevant sections of the Code for a better understanding of the same.
 Accordingly, Section 4 ; Section 94 ; Section 151 ; Order 38, Rule 5, and
 Order 39, Rule 1 are delineated below: Section 94 . Supplemental proceedings. - In order to prevent the
ends of justice from being defeated the Court may, if it is so prescribed,- (a) issue a warrant to arrest the defendant and bring him before the
Court to show cause why he should not give security for his appearance,
and if he fails to comply with any order for security commit him to the
civil prison; (b) direct the defendant to furnish security to produce any property
belonging to him and to place the same at the disposal of the Court or
order the attachment of any property; (c) grant a temporary injunction and in case of disobedience commit the
person guilty thereof to the civil prison and order that his property be
attached and sold; (d) appoint a receiver of any property and enforce the performance of his
duties by attaching and selling his property; (e) make such other interlocutory orders as may appear to the Court to
be just and convenient. Section 151 . Saving of inherent powers of Court.- Nothing in this
Code shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent power of
the Court to make such orders as may be necessary for the ends of
justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Court. Order 38, Rule 5. Where defendant may be called upon to furnish
security for production of property. - (1) Where, at any stage of a
suit, the Court is satisfied, by affidavit or otherwise, that the defendant,
with intent to obstruct or delay the execution of any decree that may be
passed against him,- (a) is about to dispose of the whole or any part of his property, or (b) is about to remove the whole or any part of his property from the local
limits of the jurisdiction of the Court,
the Court may direct the defendant, within a time to be fixed by it, either
to furnish security, in such sum as may be specified in the order, to
produce and place at the disposal of the Court, when required, the said
property or the value of the same, or such portion thereof as may be
sufficient to satisfy the decree, or to appear and show cause why he
should not furnish security. (2) The plaintiff shall, unless the Court otherwise directs, specify the
property required to be attached and the estimated value thereof.
(3) The Court may also in the order direct the conditional attachment of
the whole or any portion of the property so specified.
[(4)] If an order of attachment is made without complying with the
provisions of sub-rule (1) of this rule, such attachment shall be void.]

Order 39, Rule 1. Cases in which temporary injunction may be
granted. - Where in any suit it is proved by affidavit or otherwise- (a) that any property in dispute in a suit is in danger of being wasted,
damaged or alienated by any party to the suit, or wrongfully sold in
execution of a decree, or (b) that the defendant threatens, or intends, to remove or dispose of his
property with a view to [defrauding] his creditors,
[(c) that the defendant threatens to dispossess the plaintiff or otherwise
cause injury to the plaintiff in relation to any property in dispute in the
suit,]
the Court may by order grant a temporary injunction to restrain such act,
or make such other order for the purpose of staying and preventing the
wasting, damaging, alienation, sale, removal or disposition of the
property [or dispossession of the plaintiff, or otherwise causing injury to
the plaintiff in relation to any property in dispute in the suit] as the Court
thinks fit, until the disposal of the suit or until further orders. 26. At this juncture, I propose to examine in detail some of the judgments
 relied upon by all the parties. In the case of Manohar Lal Chopra
 (supra) the Supreme Court was dealing with an anti suit injunction
 issued by the Civil Court in Indore restraining the defendant appellant
 from proceeding with an earlier suit filed in Asansol. The Supreme
 Court allowed the appeal and set aside the order restraining the
 appellant from proceeding with the suit at Asansol. It is in this context
 after approving the judgments passed in Chinese Tannery Owners'
 Association (supra) and Bhagat Singh Bugga (supra) the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court, inter alia, held that there is no expression in Section
 94 which prohibits the issue of temporary injunction in circumstances
 not covered by Order 39 of the Code. It was held that the inherent
 powers of the Court are in addition to the powers specifically conferred
 by the Code and are complementary. It was further held that the High
 Courts, especially chartered High Courts had the inherent powers to
 pass orders of injunction when no such power existed in the Code of
 Civil Procedure . Finally, the Supreme Court held that the situations
 contemplated under Order 39, Rule 1 and 2 were not exhaustive and
 could not encompass or apprehend all situations that may arise for the
 grant of injunctions. The relevant paragraphs of the above majority and
 minority view of the judgment are delineated below: and that Rules 1 and 2 of Order 39 lay down certain
 circumstances in which a temporary injunction may be issued. 18. There is difference of opinion between the High Courts on this
 point. One view is that a Court cannot issue an order of
 temporary injunction if the circumstances do not fall within the
 provisions of Order 39 of the Code: Varadacharlu v. Narsimha
 Charlu [AIR 1926 Mad 258] ; Govindarajulu v. Imperial Bank of
 India [AIR 1932 Mad 180] Karuppayya v. Ponnuswami [AIR 1933
 Mad 500 (2)] ; Murugesa Mudali v. Angamuthu Mudali [AIR 1938
 Mad 190] and Subramanianv. Seetarama [AIR 1949 Mad 104] . The other view is that a Court can issue an interim injunction
under circumstances which are not covered by Order 39 of the
Code, if the Court is of opinion that the interests of justice require
the issue of such interim injunction: Dhaneshwar
Nath v. Ghanshyam Dhar [AIR 1940 All 185] ; Firm Bichchha
Ram v. Firm Baldeo Sahai [AIR 1940 All 241] ; Bhagat
Singh v. Jagbir Sawhney [ AIR 1941 Cal 670] and Chinese Tannery
Owners' Association v. Makhan Lal [AIR 1952 Cal 560] . We are of
opinion that the latter view is correct and that the Courts have
inherent jurisdiction to issue temporary injunctions in
circumstances which are not covered by the provisions of Order
39 CPC . There is no such expression in Section 94 which
expressly prohibits the issue of a temporary injunction in
circumstances not covered by Order 39 or by any rules made
under the Code. It is well settled that the provisions of the Code
are not exhaustive, for the simple reason that the legislature is
incapable of contemplating all the possible circumstances which
may arise in future litigation and consequently for providing the
procedure for them. The effect of the expression "if it is so
prescribed" is only this that when the rules prescribe the
circumstances in which the temporary injunction can be issued,
ordinarily the Court is not to use its inherent powers to make the
necessary orders in the interests of justice, but is merely to see
whether the circumstances of the case bring it within the
prescribed rule. If the provisions of Section 94 were not there in
the Code, the Court could still issue temporary injunctions, but it
could do that in the exercise of its inherent jurisdiction. No party
has a right to insist on the Court's exercising that jurisdiction
and the Court exercises its inherent jurisdiction only when it
considers it absolutely necessary for the ends of justice to do so.
It is in the incidence of the exercise of the power of the Court to
issue temporary injunction that the provisions of Section 94 of
the Code have their effect and not in taking away the right of the
Court to exercise its inherent power. 19. There is nothing in Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 which provide
specifically that a temporary injunction is not to be issued in
cases which are not mentioned in those rules. The rules only
provide that in circumstances mentioned in them the Court may
grant a temporary injunction. 20. Further, the provisions of Section 151 of the Code make it
clear that the inherent powers are not controlled by the
provisions of the Code. Section 151 reads: 21. A similar question about the powers of the Court to issue a
commission in the exercise of its powers under Section 151 of the
Code in circumstances not covered by Section 75 and Order 26,
arose in Padam Sen v. State of Uttar Pradesh [(1961) 1 SCR 884] 31 and this Court held that the Court can issue a commission in
such circumstances. It observed at p. 887 thus: These observations clearly mean that the inherent powers are not
in any way controlled by the provisions of the Code as has been
specifically stated in Section 151 itself. But those powers are not
to be exercised when their exercise may be in conflict with what
had been expressly provided in the Code or against the intentions
of the legislature. This restriction, for practical purposes, on the
exercise of those powers is not because those powers are
controlled by the provisions of the Code but because it should be
persumed that the procedure specifically provided by the
legislature for orders in certain circumstances is dictated by the
interests of justice. 23. The case reported as Maqbul Ahmad v. Pratap Narain
Singh [LR 62 IA 80] does not lay down that the inherent powers of
the Court are controlled by the provisions of the Code. It simply
holds that the statutory discretion possessed by a Court in some
limited respects under an Act does not imply that the Court
possesses a general discretion to dispense with the provisions of
that Act. In that case, an application for the preparation of a final
decree was presented by the decree-holder beyond the period of
limitation prescribed for the presentation of such an application.
It was however contended that the Court possessed some sort of
judicial discretion which would enable it to relieve the decree-
holder from the operation of the Limitation Act in a case of
hardship. To rebut this contention, it was said at p. 87: These observations have no bearing on the question of the Court's
exercising its inherent powers under Section 151 of the Code. The
section itself says that nothing in the Code shall be deemed to
limit or otherwise affect the inherent power of the Court to make
orders necessary for the ends of justice. In the face of such a clear
statement, it is not possible to hold that the provisions of the
Code control the inherent power by limiting it or otherwise 32 affecting it. The inherent power has not been conferred upon the
 Court; it is a power inherent in the Court by virtue of its duty to
 do justice between the parties before it. 24. Further, when the Code itself recognises the existence of the
 inherent power of the Court, there is no question of implying any
 powers outside the limits of the Code. 27. The inherent powers are to be exercised by the Court in very
 exceptional circumstances, for which the Code lays down no
 procedure. Dissenting view (Per J.C. Shah, J.) 42. It is true that the High Courts constituted under Charters and
 exercising ordinary original jurisdiction do exercise inherent
 jurisdiction to issue an injunction to restrain parties in a suit
 before them from proceeding with a suit in another court, but
 that is because the Chartered High Courts claim to have inherited
 this jurisdiction from the Supreme Courts of which they were
 successors. This jurisdiction would be saved by Section 9 of the
 Charter Act (24 and 25 Vict. c. 104) of 1861 and in the Code of
 Civil Procedure , 1908 it is so expressly provided by Section 4 . But
 the power of the civil courts other than the Chartered High Courts
 must be found within Section 94 and Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 of
 the Civil Procedure Code." (underlined by me for emphasis) 27. In Bhagat Singh Bugga (supra), the Calcutta High Court was dealing
 with a case of an anti injunction suit. In this case, the defendant had
 filed a prior suit in the Court of the sub-ordinate judge Gujranwala.
 The issue was decided by the Calcutta High Court staying the
 previously instituted suit at Gujranwala relying on the inherent powers
 of the Calcutta High Court. The High Court held that the law cannot
 make express provisions against all inconveniences and the Court,
 therefore, had inherent power to act ex debito justitiae where the
 circumstances of the case required. The Court held that the balance of
 convenience enabled the Court to pass the interim order of injunction.
 The relevant extracts are provided below: 28. In Chinese Tannery Owners' Association (supra) the Calcutta High
 Court was examining an interim order of injunction that had been
 granted in favour of the plaintiff in a suit for money decree. The
 defendant appellant raised the plea that the provisions of order 39
 Rule 1 of the Code was not attracted and the Civil Court should not
 have drawn upon its inherent powers under Section 151 of the Code.
 The Division Bench held that the mere fact that there are certain
 provisions as regards the issue of injunctions in Order 39 of the Code
 does not debar the Court from passing temporary injunctions from
 doing justice in the exercise of its power under Section 151 of the
 Code. The relevant paragraphs are delineated below: Dealing with the argument similar to what has been addressed to
us here Woodroffe, J. observed: 6. I respectfully agree with the principle as laid down in these
words. Applying this principle to the case before us, we are clearly 35 of opinion that the mere fact that there are certain provisions as
 regards the issue of injunction in O. 39 of the CPC does not debar
 the Court from passing orders of temporary injunction for doing
 justice in the exercise of its powers under Section 151 of the CPC.
 It cannot in our opinion reasonably be argued that the provisions
 of Order 39 of the CPC were intended by the Legislature to be
 exhaustive." 29. In M. V. Elisabeth and Others (supra) the Supreme Court examined
 in detail the powers of the High Court in relation to the admiralty
 jurisdiction and came to the conclusion that the High Courts in India
 being Courts of unlimited jurisdiction are the repository of all judicial
 power under the Constitution except what is specifically excluded, and
 are, therefore, competent to issue directions for arrest of a foreign ship
 in exercise of statutory jurisdiction or even otherwise to effectuate the
 exercise of jurisdiction. The relevant paragraph is delineated below: 30. In Nanda Roy & Ors. (supra) the Coordinate Bench of the Calcutta
 High Court examined minutely the origin and genesis of the remedy of
 injunction and also relied upon Manohar Lal Chopra (supra) to arrive
 at the ratio that the power to grant injunction stems from Section 94(c)
 of the Code and Order 39 indicates the circumstances in which the
 Court may exercise such powers. The Court held that the
 circumstances are by no means exhaustive and the Courts' power to
 issue a temporary injunction is not limited to the circumstances
 prescribed in Order 39. The Court further held that the powers to grant
 injunction as always inhere in a Court of law and may be exercised for
 doing complete justice between the parties. The relevant paragraphs
 are delineated below: 31. In the case of Manoharlal -v- Seth Hiralal reported in AIR
1962 SC 527 it was held as per the majority view that it is well
settled that the provisions of the Code are not exhaustive, for the
simple reason that the legislature is incapable of contemplating 39 all the possible circumstances which may arise in future litigation
and consequently for providing the procedure for them. The effect
of the expression 'if it is so prescribed' in Section 94 of the code is
only this that when the Rules in Order 39 prescribe the
circumstances in which temporary injunction can be issued,
ordinarily the court is not to use its inherent power to make the
necessary orders in the interest of justice, but is merely to see
whether the circumstances of the case bring it within the
prescribed rule. If the provisions of Section 94 were not there in
the Code, the Court could still issue temporary injunctions, but it
could do that in the exercise of its inherent jurisdiction. It is in
the incidence of the exercise of the power of court to issue
temporary injunction that the provisions of Section 94 of the Code
have their effect and in not taking away the right of the court to
exercise its inherent power. The court has inherent jurisdiction to
issue temporary injunctions which are not covered by the
provisions of Order 39 of the Code if the court is of the opinion
that the interest of justice requires the issuance of such interim
injunction. 32. On a meaningful reading of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908
and upon careful consideration of the precedents discussed above
I am of the view that the body of the Code comprising the
Sections confer substantive powers on the Court whereas the
Orders and Rules contained in the first schedule to the Code
prescribe the manner in which such powers are to be exercised.
In certain cases, the Orders and Rules also indicate the
circumstances in which the powers under the Sections should be
exercised. To this extent, the Sections of the Code are substantive
in nature and the Orders and Rules in the First Schedule thereto
are procedural in nature. 33. Sections 94 (c) of the Code empowers the Court to grant a
temporary injunction. This, according to me, is the parental
source of the Court's power to grant an order of injunction under
the Code. Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 indicate the circumstances in
which the court may exercise its power under Section 94 of the
Code. These circumstances are by no means exhaustive in the
sense that the Court's power to issue a temporary injunction is
not limited to the circumstances prescribed by Rules 1 and 2 of
Order 39. In any other facts and circumstances not covered by
Rules 1 and 2 of Order 39, if justice do demands, the court can
issue a temporary injunction in the exercise of its inherent power.
Such power has always inhered in a court of law to be exercised
for doing complete justice between the parties. Justice is above all
and cannot be thwarted or defeated by technicalities. Section 151
of the Code recognises such inherent power of the Court. Such
inherent power of the Court must be recognized as it is
impossible to visualize all the circumstances that may arise in
future while enacting a law or framing procedural rules. The
inherent power is generally exercised to fill up a lacuna in the law
and mainly on equitable considerations when the circumstances
of a case so warrant." 31. The Supreme Court of the Unites States in Deckert et al. (supra) was
 dealing with an issue wherein the petitioner had prayed for the
 appointment of a receiver to take possession of the assets of the
 defendants and had also sought injunction restraining the defendants
 from transferring and disposing of any of the assets of the defendants.
 The case made out by the petitioner was that the defendants were
 guilty of fraudulent misrepresentations and concealments in their sale
 and advertisement of contract certificates to the petitioner in violation
 of the Securities Act of 1933. In this factual background, the Supreme
 Court held that a suit to rescind a contract induced by fraud and to
 recover the consideration paid may be maintained in equity at least
 where there are circumstances making the legal remedy inadequate.
 The relevant paragraphs are provided below: 32. In Abheya Realtors Pvt. Ltd. (supra), a Coordinate Bench of this High
 Court in its original jurisdiction was dealing with the rights of parties
 in a lease deed that contained a lock in period for three years. The lock
 in period clause stipulated that if the lessee (defendant) desired to
 surrender the lease during the lock in period of three years it would
 have to pay monthly rent for the remaining lock in period. The Court
 held that an agreement which related to a commercial matter with a
 person binding himself to pay lease rent at an agreed rate and
 covenanting to make payment of an ascertainable amount for a breach
 on his part may not be altogether let off by citing non compliance of a
 statutory section. Such conduct, it was held tilted the balance in
 favour of the plaintiff for the issue of an injunction directing the
 defendant to secure the plaintiff's claim by way of a bank guarantee.
 The relevant paragraphs are provided below: 33. In Sourav Ganguly (supra) a Coordinate Bench of this High Court
 was dealing with an application under Section 9 of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act seeking to restrain the respondent from disposing of or
 selling or transferring or encumbering or letting out of the respondent's
 property at Salt Lake, even though the property was not the subject
 matter of the suit. The Calcutta High Court held that a claimant can
 seek the extraordinary power restraining a defendant from using his
 assets not connected with the agreement only upon a clear claim being
 demonstrated and upon being established that the respondent was
 taking steps to improperly deny the realization of the claim. The Court
 relied upon Abheya Realtors Pvt. Ltd. (supra) to justify that
 attachment of property was necessary in a clear cut case even without
 the defendant trying to defraud the creditors because the vicissitudes
 of the commercial markets may leave the defendant with no money to
 pay the plaintiff/creditor. The Court also relied upon the case of
 Rajendran and Others -v- Shankar Sundaram and Others [Coram: 12. The petitioner also refers to a recent, and yet unreported,
judgment of a Division Bench of this Court rendered on July 10,
2012 in APO No. 32 of 2012, APO No. 33 of 2012 and APO No. 77
of 2012 where the Court observed as follows: 13. The third judgment carried by the petitioner on this aspect is
the one reported at (2008) 2 SCC 724 where the observations at
paragraphs 12 and 13 of the report indicate that if there is a huge
sum which is claimed and is, prima facie, established the plaintiff
would be
"entitled to secure his interest keeping in view the amount
involved in the suit." 14. There is no doubt that there is a substantial sum which is
due from the respondent to the petitioner. It is also evident from
the report of the Special Officer that there is almost no
commercial activity or any work at all in the Salt Lake office of the
respondent. It is also the respondent's contention that the
Friends Colony office that used to be registered office of the
respondent company is no longer with the respondent. The earlier 45 orders passed herein record the difficulty in effecting service on
 the respondent and the affidavits of service filed by the petitioner
 also reveal the manner of functioning of the respondent. It also
 appears from the correspondence exchanged between the parties
 and particularly, the letters addressed by the petitioner to the
 respondent, that even the guests who have been invited and who
 attended the programmes on the petitioner's request have not
 been paid the travel expenses, leave aside the honorarium.
 Certain prizes announced to participants in the programmes have
 also not been paid. It is also the admitted position that some of the key functionaries
 of the respondent company have been arrested. The petitioner
 has also referred to several creditors of the respondent company
 having instituted proceedings against the respondent. 15. The two channels aired by the respondent have been closed
 down. There is hardly any functioning at the offices of the
 respondent in Calcutta. An affidavit has been filed in a rather
 cavalier manner on behalf of the respondent where an officer who
 was not associated with the respondent at the time that the
 agreement was executed between the parties has made
 statements as to what transpired at that time and has verified the
 statements to be true to his knowledge. 16. There is a justifiable apprehension, in the circumstances, as
 to whether the petitioner will be entitled to realise the money
 upon the arbitral reference being concluded, particularly, since
 there does not appear to be any defence at all to the substantial
 money claim of the petitioner. 17. The respondent says that some of the properties over which
 the subsisting orders operate do not belong to the respondent. To
 such extent, the orders may not be effective but the respondent is
 not prejudiced if there are orders that operate on properties which
 are not owned by the respondent. The conduct of the respondent
 does not inspire any confidence and it is just and expedient that
 the subsisting orders continue till the respondent is able to
 deposit at least a sum of Rs. 20 crore in aid of the petitioner's
 claim in the reference." 34. In Padam Sen (supra), an order was passed by the additional munsif
 for ceasing the books for accounts of the defendant in exercise of the
 powers under Section 151 of the Code, though under Section 75 and
 Order 36 of the Code such powers were not available to the Court to
 appoint a Commissioner. In that context, the Court held that the
 inherent powers of the Court are in addition to the powers specifically
 conferred on the Court by the Code but these powers are not to be 46 exercised when they are in conflict with what has been expressly
 provided in the Code or against the intentions of the legislature. The
 relevant paragraphs are provided below: 35. In Sunil Kakrania (supra) the Division Bench was sitting in appeal
 against an order of injunction restraining the defendants from
 transferring or alienating the suit property described in the plaint and
 from creating any third party interest in respect of the suit property till
 the disposal of the suit. The respondents relied heavily on this
 judgment to show that the Division Bench had in answer to the
 question "whether in a money suit merely because the plaintiff has a
 strong case on merit, a Court can restrain the defendant from
 transferring or alienating his movable or immovable property during
 the pendency of the suit" held in the negative on the ground that the
 power under Section 151 of the Code cannot be exercised with
 reference to the substantive rights of property of a defendant. The
 relevant paragraphs are delineated below: 36. In Kohinoor Steel Private Ltd. (supra) the Division Bench of this
 High Court was sitting in appeal filed by the defendant in a suit for
 recovery of money. The order assailed before the Division Bench was
 an order passed by the Civil Judge (Senior Division) restraining the
 defendant from transferring or alienating plant and machinery that
 had been sold by the plaintiff to the defendant. The Division Bench
 held that the plant and machinery would not amount as suit property
 and therefore, the claim was a mere money suit. The Division Bench
 further held that there was no averment in the plaint or the application
 for injunction that the defendant intended or threatened to remove or
 dispose of his property with a view to defrauding his creditors, and
 accordingly, held that Order 39 Rule 1 had no application to the case. The Division Bench also followed Raman Tech (supra) and held that
in the facts and circumstances the test laid down in Raman Tech
(supra) were not fulfilled and therefore no order of attachment before
judgment can be made. The relevant paragraphs are delineated below: 37. From a plain reading of the judgments discussed above it appears that
 the Supreme Court has held that Section 94 read with Order 39, Rule
 1 is not exhaustive and circumstances may be present that are beyond
 the provisions. In such circumstances, the Courts have held that
 power may be exercised by the Civil Courts under Section 151 of the
 Code for the ends of justice and to prevent the abuse of the process of
 the Court. Manohar Lal Chopra's (supra) judgment clearly
 enunciates the ratio that Civil Courts have the power to fill in the
 loopholes/ gaps that may be there in the Code for the ends of justice.
 According to the above judgment, this power is inherent and is not
 stultified when it comes to delivering justice. The minority judgment in
 Manohar Lal Chopra (supra) disagrees with the above view with 50 regard to the powers available to Civil Courts, but agrees to the
majority view with reference to the powers being inherent in the
Chartered High Courts. One must keep in mind that in Manohar Lal
Chopra (supra) the case involved was an anti suit injunction, and the
Courts held that in exceptional cases, the Civil Courts have the right to
injunct a party from proceeding with a suit in another jurisdiction. One
may note here that the right to file a suit is a substantive right of a
litigant, and the judgment in Manohar Lal Chopra (supra) makes no
distinction with regard to the power of the Civil Courts to exercise its
inherent power in relation to procedural and substantive rights of a
party and to pass injunctions in such cases. Peculiarly, the ratio in Padam Sen 's (supra) judgment that the Civil Courts' inherent power
is restricted to procedural aspects and cannot affect the substantive
rights of a party was considered in Manohar Lal Chopra (supra) and
the Larger Bench therein upheld the Calcutta High Court views in Chinese Tannery Owners' Association and others (supra) and Bhagat Singh Bugga (supra). Furthermore, the Supreme Court in
Manohar Lal Chopra (supra) did not distinguished between
procedural and substantive rights with reference to the inherent
powers of the Civil Court. Following the ratio, one may see that the
Supreme Court has upheld injunctions granted in cases of anti suit
injunctions, right to arrest a ship, bank guarantee matters involving
fraud etc. that affect the substantive rights of parties. In light of the
same, I am of the view that in rare and exceptional cases, Civil Courts
may grant injunctions with regard to the procedural and substantial
rights of the parties in fit cases for the ends of justice. The only
exception is that the Civil Courts cannot in the guise of inherent
powers available under Section 151 of the Code pass orders that are in
conflict and are in contravention to the provisions of the Code. With
regard to the inherent powers of the Chartered High Court, the
minority judgment of Justice J. C. Shah read with the majority
judgment therein clearly poses no restriction on the Calcutta High
Court. The Calcutta High Court judgment in Nanda Roy (supra) also 51 deals with the raison d'etre and the source of the inherent powers of
 Chartered High Courts. 38. In the present case, I shall first examine whether there is a need for
 this Court to resort to the inherent powers of the Chartered High Court
 or the power under the Code itself is sufficient to pass orders in the
 facts and circumstances of this case. The respondents have argued
 that an order of attachment under Order 38 Rule 5 cannot be passed
 unless the test laid down in Raman Tech (supra) are complied with.
 Time and again the principles laid down in Raman Tech (supra) have
 been followed by the Supreme Court and High Courts. In the present
 case, the tests laid down in Raman Tech (supra) have not been
 fulfilled, and therefore, no order for attachment before judgment can be
 passed by this Court. With regard to Order 39, Rule 1, one may only
 examine Rule 1(b) in the present context as Rule 1(a) and 1(c) have no
 application to the facts of this case. Rule 1(b) states that an injunction
 can be granted only where in any suit it is proved by affidavit or
 otherwise that the defendant threatens, or intends, to remove or
 dispose of his property with a view to defraud his creditors. On a plain
 reading of this provision, I am of the view that the Court is required to
 firstly come to a subjective finding with regard to the threat or
 intention of the defendant to remove or dispose of his property, and
 secondly, come to a subjective finding that such alienation of property
 is with a view to defrauding his creditors. In the present factual matrix,
 the plaintiff/petitioner steps into the shoes of the creditors and it is
 with reference to the petitioner that one has to make this subjective
 finding. The petitioner in the present case has clearly demonstrated the
 prima facie case of fraud having been committed on him by the
 defendants. The petitioner has also averred and made pleadings in the
 plaint and the interlocutory applications with regard to the grave
 apprehension of disposal of the properties by the defendants in
 continuation of the fraud that has been committed on the petitioner. In
 my view, in a case of fraud the threshold to be crossed to come to a 52 subjective finding of the above threat to alienate property is
significantly reduced. This view of mine is buttressed by the ratio of the
House of Lords in American Cyanamid Co -v- Ethicon Ltd. [Coram: 39. I shall now deal with the two Division Bench judgments of the Calcutta
 High Court heavily relied upon by the respondents being Sunil
 Kakrania (supra) and Kohinoor Steel Private Ltd. (supra). The
 Division Bench in Sunil Kakrania (supra) heavily relied on Padam
 Sen (supra) and held that in exercise of power under Section 151 of
 the Code, a Court can pass such orders which is not in conflict with
 substantive rights of a party and that such order is necessary for ends
 of justice, provided further that there is no bar in the Code for passing
 such order which must be procedural in nature. The Division Bench
 also referred to Manohar Lal Chopra (supra), but unfortunately did
 not examine the said judgment in detail. The Division Bench also failed
 to appreciate that Padam Sen (supra) had been referred to in
 Manohar Lal Chopra (supra) and the ratio of Manohar Lal Chopra
 (supra) that related to grant of an anti suit injunction that affected the
 substantive rights of a litigant, did not, in any manner curtail the
 power of a Civil Court, to pass orders on substantive rights of a party. The only prohibition noted in Manohar Lal Chopra (supra) is that
 orders cannot be passed that are in conflict and contravention to the
 Code. Furthermore, in Sunil Kakrania (supra), the Court was neither
 dealing with a case of fraud nor an ascertained sum of money. Finally,
 the observations of the Court relate to the powers of a Civil Court and
 not of a Chartered High Court. In view of the above observations, the
 ratio in Sunil Kakrania (supra) is clearly distinguishable and has no
 application to the facts and circumstances of the case in hand. 40. In Kohinoor Steel Private Ltd. (supra) the Division Bench followed its
 earlier judgment delivered in Sunil Kakrania (supra). Furthermore , in
 that case , the trial court had come to a finding that the defendant had
 earned a profit of Rs. 81.89 lakhs in the financial year coupled with the
 fact that the averments in the plaint with regard to Order 39 Rule 1(b)
 were vague and ambiguous. In fact, in this judgment, the Division
 Bench completely failed to examine the ratio laid down by the Supreme
 Court in Manohar Lal Chopra (supra). It is to be further noted that 54 the Division Bench had approved the ratio passed in Albert Judah
 Judah -v- Rampada Gupta reported in AIR 1959 Cal 715 [Coram: P.
 C. Mallick, J.] that had held that in a money suit, the Court in exercise
 of power conferred under Order 39, Rule 1(b) of the Code can restrain
 the defendant from disposing of the property which is not the subject
 matter of the suit if it appears that the defendant intended or
 threatened to dispose of his property with a view to defraud his
 creditors. The Court, however, in the facts of the above case felt that
 there were no averments in the application for injunction in terms of
 Order 39, Rule 1(b) of the Code that the defendant threatened or
 intended to dispose of his property with a view to defraud his creditors,
 and accordingly, set aside the order of injunction passed by the trial
 court below [see paragraph 27 of Kohinoor Steel Private Ltd. (supra)]. This judgment also does not deal with the powers of a
 Chartered High Court. In view of the fact that the factual matrix
 therein was completely different, no case for fraud had been made out
 and the fact that the Division Bench in Kohinoor Steel Private Ltd. (supra) was dealing with the powers of the Civil Court, I am of the view
 that this judgment has no application in the present facts and
 circumstances, and is accordingly, distinguishable on facts and in law. 41. My view, that in cases of fraud and claim for specified damages, an ad
 interim injunction would lie, is further reiterated and supported by the
 ratio of two coordinate bench judgments in Abheya Realtors Private
 Limited (supra) and Saurav Ganguly (supra) wherein the Court had
 directed the defendant to secure the claim of the plaintiff. Further, the
 Division Bench judgment of this Court in Ajay Kumar Agarwal
 (supra) is also a case in point where the defendants were asked to
 secure the plaintiffs for a sum of Rs. 87.46 lakhs even though the
 defendants had categorically disputed the said claim. In a recent
 judgment of the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Santosh
 Promoters Pvt. Ltd. -v- Intrasoft Technologies Ltd. reported in
 2017(1) CHN (CAL) 189 [Coram: Jyotirmay Bhattacharya and Ishan 55 Chandra Das, JJ.], the Court after examining the provisions of Order
 38 and 39 held that the standard of proof in case of attachment before
 judgment is higher than the standard of prove necessary to be
 discharged in case of a temporary injunction. The Court further held
 that if a prima facie case is made out, there is no bar to grant
 injunction under Order 39, Rule 1(b) in a suit for recovery of
 outstanding amounts, that is, a money suit. One may further keep in
 mind the judgments in Chinese Tannery Owners' Association and
 others (supra) and Bhagat Singh Bugga (supra) of this High Court
 that were specifically approved in Manohar Lal Chopra (supra). Both
 the above Calcutta High Court judgments dealt with the issue of
 inherent powers of the High Court in granting injunctions in
 appropriate cases, one in relation to a claim for a money decree and
 the second with respect to an anti injunction suit, respectively. 42. Before proceeding further, I would like to refer to L.C. Quinn -v-
 Leathem [Coram: Earl of Halsbury L.C., Lord Macnaghten, Lord
 Shand, Lord Brampton, Lord Robertson, and Lord Lindley.] reported in
 1901 AC 495 wherein the House of Lords observed as follows: 43. I have to point out that umpteen number of judgments have been
 relied upon by the respondents on different principles of law. Keeping
 in view the principles in L. C. Quinn (supra) I am of the view that
 some of these judgments are, simply reiterating the principles of the
 judgments that have been dealt by my in detail while some of the
 judgments relate to issues that have no bearing on the instant facts. In
 relation to the submission that there has been considerable delay on 56 the part of the petitioner in approaching the High Court, I am of the
 view that such is not the case. In July, 2017 the fraudulent
 transactions were discovered and the plaintiff immediately suspended
 the employee and moved to a different mechanism of delivery on cash
 with the distributors. The petitioner immediately appointed KPMG to
 unearth the truth of the fraudulent transactions. Upon receipt of the
 report of KPMG on March 20, 2018 the employee was terminated and a
 criminal case was filed in the month of May 2018 against the employee
 and the distributors. The petitioner also, thereafter, appointed BDO to
 quantify the extent of excessive credits passed on to the distributors.
 The BDO report was received on February 4, 2019 and immediately,
 thereafter, on March 8, 2019 both the suits and interlocutory
 applications were filed. As can be seen from the above dates discussed,
 the petitioner upon discovery of the fraud took action against the
 employee and the distributors and appointed auditors to quantify the
 extent of damage caused by the respondents. Upon such examination
 being completed in February 2019, the petitioner filed the instant
 suits. It is to be noted that the petitioner has filed the suits well within
 the period of limitation and as such cannot be faulted for any delay on
 its part. In light of the same, the judgment in Zenit Mataplast Private
 Limited (supra) has no application to this case. 44. In view of the fact that the petitioner has been able to prove a prima
 facie case of collusion and fraud by the respondents, the conduct of
 the respondents and the irreparable loss and injury that would be
 caused to the petitioner, I am of the view that the three tests for grant
 of ad interim temporary injunction are satisfied in the instant case,
 and accordingly, distributor no. 1 and distributor no. 2 are restrained
 from transferring and/or alienating and/or creating any third party
 interest in the properties mentioned in Annexure 'DD' in G.A. No. 725
 of 2019 and Annexure 'R' in G.A. No. 733 of 2019 respectively. 45. In relation to the employee, I find that the employee was bound by the
 terms and conditions of his appointment letter as also the Tata Code of
 Conduct (Annexure 'B' of G.A 725 of 2019) that required him to
 function in a honest and ethical manner. It is to be noted that an
 employee in a responsible position owes a kind of fiduciary duty to the
 employer and the employer would have proprietary rights over ill gotten
 gains of the said employee. Even if one were not to follow the standards
 as indicated above, an employee would be liable for losses and
 damages the employer incurs due to the fraud committed by the
 employee. In the instant case, the admission of the employee on
 various occasions starting from July, 2016 to February 2018 leave no
 room for doubt that the employee has committed fraud on the
 petitioner in this case. His own admission that he received 25 per cent
 as kickback by way of his letter dated February 8, 2018 speaks
 volumes and the same is accentuated by the offer by the employee by
 letter dated February 9, 2018 to secure the petitioner by offering a flat
 owned by him. In light of the same, I restrain the employee from
 transferring the property mentioned in Annexure 'M' at page 515 of
 G.A. 725 of 2019. Keeping in mind the quantum of damages, I further
 restrain the employee from transferring the shares, mutual funds and
 fixed deposits lying in his own name. Keeping the balance of
 convenience and inconvenience in mind, the above ad interim
 injunction restraining the respondents from transferring the properties
 as indicated above shall be restricted to the extent of Rs. 10 crores for
 the distributor no. 1, Rs. 1 crore for the distributor no. 2 and Rs. 1
 crore for the employee. In my view, the above amounts are required to
 be secured in favour of the petitioner by the respondents respectively.
 The respondents shall be at liberty to file appropriate application to
 secure the above amounts as indicated above, and upon such security
 being given, the restraining order against the party concerned may be
 lifted, subject to satisfaction of this Court. I make it clear that the ad
 interim orders passed above shall continue till disposal of the 58 interlocutory applications or till passing of any modification order,
 whichever is earlier. 46. As the present order has been passed at the ad interim stage, the
 respondents are directed to file their affidavit in opposition within four
 weeks, reply, if any, within two weeks thereafter. Parties shall be at
 liberty to mention for inclusion in the list for final hearing. 47. As an epilogue I would like to pen down a few thoughts. In the present
 case I have found that the temporary injunction under Order 39, Rule
 1(b) could be granted even in a money suit and therefore, there was no
 need for this Court to dive into its inherent powers. The question that
 arises to answer at this juncture is whether the courts, and specifically
 a chartered High Court like the present one, is shackled with the above
 limitations or a chartered High Court having the plenary jurisdiction
 has inherent powers to pass any order for the ends of justice, equity
 and good conscience. The question I ask to myself is whether the court
 is required to restrain itself in spite of the plaintiff having
 demonstrated a prima facie case of fraud having been committed by
 the defendants? Is the plaintiff entitled to no security and/or
 protection till the completion of trial and passing of a decree when the
 past conduct of the defendants clearly point to fraud and collusion? I
 am of the view that in the commercial world as exists today, the
 citizens have a right to expect that the judiciary shall come to their
 rescue at the very first instance when a fraud is committed on them.
 The law cannot be so narrow minded that it shall wait for umpteen
 years to give relief to a plaintiff that approaches the court and prima
 facie proves that fraud has been committed on him. It is a well
 established principle that fraud unravels all and no man can be
 allowed to take advantage of such fraud. I am well aware of the slow
 pace at which suits proceed and the fact that it can take over 15 years
 to 20 years for a decree to be passed in a suit. Owing to this delay, 59 many a decree becomes infructuous and cannot even be executed. In
 my view, the Chartered High Courts have derived its powers from the
 Constitution of India. Article 225 of the Constitution preserved the
 jurisdiction, including inherent jurisdiction which existed on the date
 when the Constitution came into force, and accordingly, the High
 Court is the repository of power enabling it to reach its arms to do
 justice. Such being the case, I am of the view that the High Court has a
 duty to use its inherent powers, in appropriate cases for the ends of
 justice, equity and good conscience. Furthermore, in the commercial
 world of today it is the duty of the High Court to protect the honest
 businessman against persons who use unscrupulous means to cheat
 such a businessman. Failure to do so, would amount to eroding the
 confidence of the citizens in the High Court. 48. I would like to put on record the painstaking spadework done by
 Counsel and the sublime assistance provided by learned Senior
 Advocates Mr. S. N. Mookherjee and Mr. Ratnanko Banerjee appearing
 for the petitioner as also Mr. Aniruddha Roy, Mr. Jishnu Chowdhury
 and Mr. Anirban Ray appearing on behalf of the respondents in this
 matter. 49. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, should be
 made available to the parties upon compliance with the requisite
 formalities. (Shekhar B. Saraf, J.) 60 Later
Respondents in both the interlocutory applications prayed for stay of
operation of the judgment. The same is considered and refused. (Shekhar B. Saraf, J.)