CRL.M.A. 36333/2024 (exemption form filing certified copy of
 annexures and true typed copy of dim annexures and also
 maintaining 4 inch margin on the left side of the annexures) 1. Exemption allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The application stands disposed of. 3. The present application is filed seeking pre-arrest bail in
 FIR No. 600/2024 dated 30.08.2024, registered at Police Station
 Nand Nagri, for offences under Sections 354(D) / 506 of the
 Indian Penal Code, 1860 ( IPC ) and Section 12 of the Protection
 of Children from Sexual Offenses Act, 2012 (POCSO). 4. Briefly stated, the FIR in the present case was registered
 based on the complaint filed by the complainant/victim, a 15-
 year-old minor girl studying in Class XI, alleging that she was
 subjected to severe harassment, blackmail, and sexual
 exploitation by the applicant, Saiful Khan, and the co-accused, Signature Not Verified Signed By:SANJAY BAIL APPLN. 4440/2024 Page 1 of 8 KUMAR Signing Date:04.12.2024 10:36:45 Sameer. The complainant alleged that in November 2022, the co-
 accused Sameer had begun following her on her way to school
 and persistently asked her to be his friend. Upon her refusal, the
 victim informed her mother, who approached Sameer's family,
 leading to a temporary cessation of his actions. However, in
 August 2023, Sameer resumed following the victim and, in
 November 2023, contacted her via Instagram, claiming that he
 sought a "normal friendship." The victim reluctantly started
 communicating with him, and during their interactions, she
 shared a few photographs of herself, and in all of them she was
 clothed. 5. It is alleged that in May 2024, the applicant contacted the
 victim on Instagram, introducing himself as Sameer's friend.
 Despite her refusal to communicate, Saiful sent the victim a
 photograph where she was seen nude and threatened to make it
 viral unless she complied with his demands. Fearing public
 humiliation, the victim was coerced into communicating with
 Saiful through Instagram video calls. During these calls, Saiful
 forced the complainant to remove her clothes, which he recorded.
 He subsequently used these recordings to repeatedly blackmail
 her. She alleged that in June 2024, the applicant shared one of the
 victim's explicit photographs with co-accused - Sameer.
 Encouraged by this, co-accused - Sameer also began threatening
 the victim, demanding that she engage in similar video calls with
 him. Succumbing to the coercion, the victim complied, and co-
 accused - Sameer recorded these calls as well. The victim further
 alleged that both accused persons continuously threatened to Signature Not Verified Signed By:SANJAY BAIL APPLN. 4440/2024 Page 2 of 8 KUMAR Signing Date:04.12.2024 10:36:45 make the complainant's photographs and videos public. 6. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the
 applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case. He
 submits that the allegations made by the victim are fabricated and
 intended to malign the applicant without any substantive
 evidence. 7. He submits that the applicant is a young individual with no
 criminal antecedents. He emphasized that the applicant had left
 India for employment in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in early
 September 2024, as evidenced by his visa and travel documents.
 He returned to India voluntarily in November 2024 upon learning
 about the present FIR. This demonstrates his bona fide to
 cooperate with the investigation rather than evade the process of
 law. 8. The learned counsel pointed out that the victim herself
 admitted that she has never met the applicant in person. The
 interactions were allegedly limited to online platforms, which,
 according to the counsel, does not warrant the stringent measures
 being invoked against the applicant. 9. He submits that the applicant is a young individual with a
 promising future. Incarceration at this stage would irreparably
 harm his career and prospects. 10. Per Contra, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor
 (APP) for the State opposes the grant of any relief to the
 applicants. He submits that the allegations against the applicant
 are serious in nature. He submits that the learned Additional
 Sessions Judge rightly rejected the bail of the applicant, and that Signature Not Verified Signed By:SANJAY BAIL APPLN. 4440/2024 Page 3 of 8 KUMAR Signing Date:04.12.2024 10:36:45 there is no ground to interfere with the same. 11. The learned APP submits that custodial interrogation of
 the applicant is essential to recover the electronic devices
 allegedly used in the offence, ascertain the extent of the offenses,
 and trace the potential circulation of explicit material. 12. The State expressed concerns over the likelihood of the
 applicant attempting to intimidate the victim or influence
 witnesses if released on bail. The nature of the threats previously
 made by the applicant indicates a significant risk of obstruction
 in the course of justice. 13. It is to be kept in mind that the investigation is currently at
 a nascent stage. The considerations governing the grant of pre-
 arrest bail are materially different than those to be considered
 while adjudicating application for grant of regular bail, as in the
 latter case, the accused is already under arrest and substantial
 investigation is carried out by the investigating agency. 14. It is trite law that the power to grant a pre-arrest bail under Section 482 of the BNSS is extraordinary in nature and is to be
 exercised sparingly. Thus, pre-arrest bail cannot be granted in a
 routine manner. The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of State of
 A.P. v. Bimal Krishna Kundu : (1997) 8 SCC 104, held as
 under: 9. Similar observations have been made by us in a
 recent judgment in State v. Anil Sharma [(1997) 7
 SCC 187 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 1039 : JT (1997) 7 SC
 651] : (SCC pp. 189-90, para 8)
 "The consideration which should weigh with
 the Court while dealing with a request for
 anticipatory bail need not be the same as for
 an application to release on bail after arrest." xxxx xxxx xxxx 12. We are strongly of the opinion that this is not a
 case for exercising the discretion under Section 438 in
 favour of granting anticipatory bail to the
 respondents. It is disquieting that implications of
 arming the respondents, when they are pitted against
 this sort of allegations involving well-orchestrated
 conspiracy, with a pre-arrest bail order, though
 subject to some conditions, have not been taken into
 account by the learned Single Judge. We have
 absolutely no doubt that if the respondents are
 equipped with such an order before they are
 interrogated by the police it would greatly harm the
 investigation and would impede the prospects of
 unearthing all the ramifications involved in the
 conspiracy. Public interest also would suffer as a
 consequence. Having apprised himself of the nature
 and seriousness of the criminal conspiracy and the
 adverse impact of it on "the career of millions of
 students", learned Single Judge should not have
 persuaded himself to exercise the discretion which
 Parliament had very thoughtfully conferred on the
 Sessions Judges and the High Courts through Section
 438 of the Code, by favouring the respondents with
 such a pre-arrest bail order." 15. It is settled law that the custodial interrogation is
 qualitatively more elicitation oriented than questioning a suspect
 who is well ensconced with a favourable order under Section 482 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS') [State v.
 Anil Sharma : (1997) 7 SCC 187]. Granting anticipatory bail to
 the applicant would undoubtedly impede further investigation.
 An order of bail cannot be granted in a routine manner so as to
 allow the applicant to use the same as a shield. 16. This court has perused the case diary and gone through the
 statements of the victim, mother of the victim and co-accused -
 Sameer. There are materials in the case diary implicating the
 applicant in the allegations which the police are investigating.
 The allegations against the applicant are of a grave and serious
 nature, involving the exploitation and sexual abuse of a minor
 girl. The applicant is accused of coercing the victim into
 engaging in sexually explicit acts over video calls, recording the
 same without her consent, and using these recordings to
 blackmail her repeatedly. Such acts not only violate the personal
 dignity and privacy of the victim but also constitute serious
 offences under the BNS and the POCSO Act. 17. The allegations against the applicant points towards the
 exploitation of a child by coercing and blackmailing her for
 pornographic purposes. The alleged recording and sharing of
 explicit material involving the minor victim is a grave offence. 19. The present case underscores the increasing misuse of
 social media and technology to exploit and intimidate vulnerable
 individuals, particularly minors. In light of the allegations, Signature Not Verified Signed By:SANJAY BAIL APPLN. 4440/2024 Page 6 of 8 KUMAR Signing Date:04.12.2024 10:36:45 perusal of the statement of the victim and co-accused Sameer,
 this Court finds that granting pre-arrest bail would set an
 inappropriate precedent and undermine the societal interest in
 safeguarding children from such reprehensible acts. 20. The actions of the applicant exemplify the disturbing trend
 of exploiting the anonymity and reach of social media platforms
 to perpetrate sexual crimes against minors. This Court cannot
 ignore the broader societal implications of such acts and the
 urgent need to send a strong message against the misuse of
 technology. 21. Considering that the present case involves electronic
 gadgets and electronic evidence, the task of the Investigating
 Agency seems arduous and they need to be given a fair play in
 the joints to investigate the matter in the manner they deem
 appropriate. The matter requires thorough investigation which
 ought not to be curtailed by passing an order granting pre-arrest
 bail. 22. The relief of pre-arrest bail is a legal safeguard intended to
 protect individuals from potential misuse of power of arrest. It
 plays a crucial tool in preventing harassment and unjust detention
 of innocent persons. However, the court must carefully balance
 the individual's right to liberty with the interests of justice. While
 the presumption of innocence and the right to liberty are
 fundamental principles of law, they must be considered in
 conjunction with the gravity of the offence, its societal impact,
 and the need for a comprehensive and unobstructed investigation. 23. Considering the material on record, it cannot be held at this Signature Not Verified Signed By:SANJAY BAIL APPLN. 4440/2024 Page 7 of 8 KUMAR Signing Date:04.12.2024 10:36:45 stage that the investigation is being carried out with the intention
 to injure or humiliate the applicant and does not indicate false
 implication of the applicant. The nature and gravity of allegations
 are serious. Specific allegations have been made regarding the
 applicant's alleged involvement in the commission of the
 offence. 24. The material presented by the prosecution establishes a
 prima facie involvement of the applicant. Granting pre-arrest bail
 to the applicant would undoubtedly impede further investigation. 25. The present application is accordingly dismissed. 26. It is clarified that any observations made in the present
 order are for the purpose of deciding the present bail application
 and should not influence the outcome of the trial and also not be
 taken as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 DECEMBER 3, 2024 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SANJAY BAIL APPLN. 4440/2024 Page 8 of 8 KUMAR Signing Date:04.12.2024 10:36:45