Briefly stating the case of the prosecution is that Special Cell, Lodi 

Colony had prior information about a gang of criminals indulged in 

procurement and circulation of fake Indian Currency through a source that 

was regularly bringing huge consignment of fake Indian Currency from 

Bangladesh via Kolkata. One person residing somewhere in Trans­Yamuna 

area was in touch with the members of the gang involved in procuring and SC No.55/08 1/34 circulating that fake currency. On the basis of this information, sources 

were deployed and surveillance was mounted and a team was also 

constituted under leadership of Inspector Govind Sharma and Inspector 

Subhash Vats under supervision of ACP/NDR to develop the information 

and apprehend the offenders. 2. On 11.02.08, at about 5 PM, SI Vinay Tyagi received specific 

information that one Israr would come for transaction of fake Indian 

Currency near OUT gate of ISBT, Anand Vihar, Delhi between 8 to 8.30 

PM and in case of raid, he could be apprehended. The information was 

brought to the notice of Superior Officer and also recorded in daily diary 

register. Raiding party was constituted consisting of Inspector Govind 

Sharma, Inspector Subhash Vats, SI Vinay Tyagi and other head constables 

and constables. At about 6.20 pm, the raiding party alongwith informer in 

two private cars and one motor cycle left the Special Cell and reached 

ISBT, Anand Vihar at 7.25 PM. Efforts were made to join public persons 

who did not agree giving genuine excuses. After briefing the members of 

the team, the raiding party took position near the OUT gate of ISBT, Anand 

Vihar. At about 8 PM, accused Israr came there and started waiting for 

someone but at about 8.15 PM, when the accused attempted to escape 

sensing the presence of police party, he was apprehended and interrogated. 

On his cursory search, Rs. 80,000/­Indian Fake Currency in the 

denomination of Rs. 500/­ which were found concealed in the cavity of the 

shoes was recovered from both the shoes he was wearing at that time. The 

recovered Fake Currency notes were kept in sealed parcel, marked as F and 

sealed with the seal of VKT and seized. The accused also disclosed that he SC No.55/08 2/34 had come to hand over those recovered fake notes to his other associate 

Idrish R/o Bijnore, UP who failed to turn up. A rukka was sent by SI Vinay 

Tyagi for registration of case against accused Israr for committing offence 

punishable U/s 489­B & C read with Section 120 ­B IPC and after 

registration of FIR he was arrested in this case and further interrogated. At 

the instance of accused Israr. Rs. 19,500/­ fake Indian Currency notes were 

also recovered from his house in presence of one public witness PW­5 

Ghanshyam­ joined from Shaitan Chowk. Further on 12.02.2008, accused 

Shabnam @ Ruksana @ Ritu was arrested at the instance of accused Israr 

and Rs. 15,000/­ fake Indian Currency notes in the denomination of Rs. 

500/­ were recovered from her possession. She also disclosed that she used 

to exchange the fake currency and proceed of that money has been kept in a 

small iron box at her house. A sum of Rs. 36,500/­ exchanged in lieu of 

fake Currency worth Rs. 55,000/­ was recovered from her house which 

were also sealed with the seal of VKT. The recovered currency was sent to 

Currency Note Press, Nasik Road, Maharastra and as per the report 

received from there, the suspected notes were counterfeit notes. After, 

investigation was completed, both the accused persons were sent to face 

trial for committing the offence punishable under Sec.489 B & C read with Section 120 ­B IPC . 3. After compliance of the requirements of Section 207 CrPC, the 

case was committed to the Court of Sessions. 4. After hearing on the point of charge, both the accused persons 

were charged on 04.06.2008 for the offence punishable under Sec.120 ­B, 

489­B r/w S. 120 ­B and 489­C readwith Section 120 ­B, IPC to which they SC No.55/08 3/34 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5. Prosecution has examined 10 witnesses in all in support of its 

case. Both the accused persons have also been examined under Section 313 CrPC in which they have denied the case of the prosecution. Accused 

Shabnam has examined Sh. Mursaleen as D2W1 in her defence. Accused 

Israr has examined Sh. Nasir as DW2 and Sh. Mohd. Tauqeer as DW3 in 

his defence. 6. PW­1 ASI U.R. Khan was working as Duty Officer in PS Special 

Cell and on receipt of rukka he recorded FIR Copy of which is Ex. PW1/A. 

PW3 Constable Dhirender Singh took three sealed parcels and deposited 

the same at Nasik Road Maharashtra vide RC No. 19/21/08 and handed 

over the receipt to MHCM. PW6 HC Sanjeev Kumar collected the report in 

sealed envelope and exhibits in sealed cover from Nasik and handed over 

the same to the IO. 7. PW7 ASI Paramjeet Singh is the MHC(M) who has proved the 

relevant entry No.1082 made by him in register No.19 regarding deposit of 

case property i.e. three sealed parcels duly sealed marked F & F­1, two 

CFSL forms and carbon copy of seizure memo and personal search items of 

accused Mohd. Israr, one parcel marked as F2 and one parcel i.e. black 

colour iron box with its key and one CFSL Form, photo copy of seizure 

memo and personal search items of accused Shabnam by SI Vinay Tyagi 

and sending of three sealed parcels alongwith three CFSL form to 

Government Press, Nasik vide R/C No.19/21/08 through constable 

Devender Singh and deposit of one sealed parcel sealed with the seal of 

Government Press, Nasik in the malkhana by HC Sanjeev as Ex. PW7/A SC No.55/08 4/34 and PW7/B. 8. Out of the material witnesses i.e. PW­4 Ct. Raj Kumar, PW­5 Sh. 

Ghanshyam, PW­8 Ct. Umesh Kumar, PW­9 Inspector Subhash Vats and 

PW­10 SI Vinay Tyagi regarding arrest of accused Mohd. Israr and 

Shabnam and recovery of fake currency from them, first I would like to 

refer to the statement of PW­10 SI Vinay Tyagi, the Investigating Officer. 

PW­10 SI Vinay Tyagi stated that on 11.02.2008, while he was posted in 

Special Cell (NDR), he received a secret information about one Israr R/o 

Sri Ram Colony involved in procuring and circulation of fake currency 

who would come at ISBT Anand Vihar between 8/8.30 PM to supply 

consignment of fake currency notes to someone. The information was 

recorded vide DD No. 12 copy of which is Ex. PW10/A and raiding party 

was constituted consisting of Inspector Subhash Vats, Inspector Govind 

Sharma, Head Constables Devi Dayal, Sunder Gautam, Sanjeev Kumar, 

Rajeev Kumar, Constable Umesh Kumar and Constable Raj Kumar and the 

raiding party alongwith the informer left the office at 6.20 PM in two 

private cars and one motor cycle. They reached MCD Office ISBT Anand 

Vihar. He made efforts to join the public persons but none agreed. The 

raiding party was divided in two teams, one team was positioned at the IN­

gate and other at OUT­gate. 9. PW10 further stated that at about 8.00 pm one person came and 

stood near OUT­gate and waited for someone for about 15­20 minutes. He 

was identified by the informer as Israr and thereafter informer left. 

Accused Israr after waiting for sometime started moving and at that time, 

he was apprehended by him with the help of Ct. Umesh and Ct. Raj Kumar. SC No.55/08 5/34 On search of accused, two bundles each containing Rs. 40,000/­ of Indian 

currency were recovered from the cavity of his shoes and the notes were 

wrapped in black plastic tape. The recovered notes were kept in transparent 

polythene and converted into a cloth pullanda and sealed with the seal of 

VKT and was given mark 'F'. Shoes and black plastic tape were also kept 

in separate pullanda and sealed with the seal of VKT. CFSL form was also 

filled at the spot and seal after use was handed over to Ct. Umesh. Both the 

pullandas were seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW4/A. Rukka Ex.PW10/B 

was prepared and FIR was got registered through constable Umesh. Site 

plan Ex.PW10/C was prepared. After registration of the case, Ct. Umesh 

returned to the spot and handed over to him the rukka and copy of FIR and 

he put the FIR number on the memos. Accused Israr was arrested vide 

arrest memo Ex.PW4/B, his personal search was conducted vide memo 

Ex.PW4/D and his disclosure statement Ex. PW4/C was recorded. At about 

2.50 or 3.00 am, they left the spot and proceeded towards Shri Ram Colony 

and reached Shaitan Chowk where they found one TSR Driver namely 

Ghanshyam who was disclosed about the facts of the case and asked to join 

the raiding party to which he agreed. Thereafter they all reached the house 

of accused at No.B­302, Gali No.14, Shri Ram Colony and from shoe rack 

portion of one Almirah which was kept in the room at the corner, accused 

Israr produced one transparent polythene containing 39 currency notes in 

the denomination of Rs.500/­ each which were found fake. All the 

recovered notes were kept in same transparent polythene and thereafter 

kept in a cloth pullanda and sealed with the seal of VKT and marked as 'F1' 

and then seized vide memo Ex.PW4/E. Site plan Ex.PW10/C1 was also SC No.55/08 6/34 prepared and statement of public witness Ghanshyam was recorded and 

thereafter he was allowed to leave. 10. The raiding team also took Israr to his tailoring shop at Malka 

Ganj where search was conducted but nothing incriminating was recovered 

from there and they returned to the office of Special Cell. At about 2 PM, 

accused Israr was produced in the court and his police remand was 

obtained. As accused Israr disclosed in his statement that he was to meet 

Shabnam @ Ruksana to deal with her in fake currency, at about 3.30 PM 

they reached near Akshardham Mandir Noida Mod. At about 3.50 or 4.00 

pm accused Shabnam, got down from one Indica car and at the instance of 

accused Israr, accused Shabnam was apprehended by W/ASI Nirmala who 

took her search and from her purse, 31 fake currency notes of Rs.500/­ each 

were recovered. Same were kept in a transparent polythene and a cloth 

pullanda was prepared and sealed with the seal of VKT and marked as 'F2' 

and seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW2/A. Accused Shabnam was also 

arrested vide arrest memo Ex.PW2/B and her personal search was 

conducted by W/ASI Nirmala vide memo Ex.PW2/C. Accused Shabnam 

made disclosure statement Ex.PW2/D and took the police party to her 

house at 27/55, Trilok Puri, Delhi at the third floor and in a room from 

almirah she took out one iron box containing Rs.36,500/­ of different 

denomination informing that the same were genuine currency notes which 

she had got in exchange of fake currency notes. Those notes were kept in 

the same iron box and after putting a lock on it, it was sealed with the seal 

of VKT with the help of cloth pullanda and was seized vide seizure memo 

Ex.PW2/A1 and has also identified the case property as Ex.P1/1 to 230, SC No.55/08 7/34 Ex.P2/1 to 3 and Ex.P3. 11. PW­5 Sh. Ghanshyam stated that on 12th about 8/12 months back 

(his statement was recorded on 31.10.2008), while he was present at 

Shaitan Chowk, Khajoori, some police officials asked him to join the 

proceedings as they had apprehended accused Mohd. Israr with fake 

currency. He alongwith the police team and accused Israr went to the house 

of accused Israr i.e. B­302, Sri Ram Colony, Khajoori, Delhi from where 

accused Israr produced one transparent polythene from the rack under an 

iron almirah which was found containing 39 fake currency notes in the 

denomination of Rs.500/­. He further stated that the said fake currency was 

kept in the same polythene and a pullanda was prepared which was sealed 

and then seized vide memo Ex.PW4/E. He has identified the 39 fake 

currency notes in the denomination of Rs.500/­ each which were recovered 

from the house of accused Mohd. Israr. 12. Regarding arrest of accused Shabnam, PW­2 W/ASI Nirmala Kumari 

stated that on 12.2.2008 she joined the investigation of this case with SI 

Vinay Tyagi and they alongwith accused Israr reached Akshardham Mandir 

near Noida Mod and a trap was laid where at the instance of accused Israr, 

accused Shabnam was apprehended and fake currency of Rs.15,500/­ was 

recovered from her possession in the denomination of Rs.500/­ each and the 

recovered fake currency was taken into possession subsequently at the 

house of accused Shabnam vide seizure memo Ex.PW2/A. Accused 

Shabnam was arrested vide arrest memo Ex.PW2/B and her personal search 

was conducted vide memo Ex.PW2/C. PW­2 ASI Nirmala Kumari has 

further stated that accused Shabnam was interrogated and her disclosure SC No.55/08 8/34 statement Ex.PW2/D was recorded . Thereafter accused Shabnam led the 

police party to her house at 27/55, Trilok Puri and got recovered genuine 

currency of Rs.36,500/­ which was taken by her in exchange of fake 

currency and the said genuine currency notes were kept in pullanda and 

marked as F­2 and the said pullanda was seized vide memo Ex.PW2/A1. 13. PW­4 Ct. Raj Kumar, PW­8 Ct. Umesh Kumar and PW­9 Inspector 

Subhash Vats were also the members of the raiding party and have deposed 

on the identical lines. 14. In the statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC, accused Israr 

stated that he has been falsely implicated in this case. He has a flourishing 

tailoring business and the persons of his profession in Malka Ganj were not 

getting work and they in connivance with the IO of the case got this false 

case registered against him to mar his business. 15. In the statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC, accused Shabnam 

stated she was neither apprehended and arrested by the police from 

Akshardham Mandir at the instance of co­accused Israr nor the fake 

currency notes were recovered from her possession. She stated that on 

12.2.2008 at about 11.00 am she was present at her house and SI Vinay 

Tyagi alongwith 6­7 other police officials came there and made inquiries 

from her. Her house was searched and they took into possession one iron 

box belonging to her mother containing genuine currency notes of Rs.

36500/­ which were kept for paying electricity bill. She further stated that 

she was lifted from her house for the purpose of making inquiry and 

thereafter she was taken to Special Cell office. She was assured by the 

police for her release after making inquiry but she was detained and on SC No.55/08 9/34 this, there was exchange of hot words between her and SI Vinay Tyagi and 

due to that reason, she was falsely implicated in this case. She claimed to 

have seen the co­accused Israr for the first time in the custody of police on 

12.2.2008 in the Special Cell office. 16. D2W1 Sh. Mursaleen has deposed that he was doing the work of AC 

repairing. Accused Shabnam is his elder sister. On 12.02.2008 at about 

11.00 am, 5­6 persons in civil clothes came to his house, searched his house 

and took away Shabnam with them. Those persons also took into 

possession one iron box containing Rs.36,500/­ which was kept for paying 

electricity bill of Rs.50,000/­. He followed them and his sister Shabnam 

upto PS Special Cell, Lodhi Colony. Certain enquiries were made from 

Shabnam. He was asked to leave and was asked to meet Shabnam next day 

in the Court. His signatures were also obtained on two papers. 17. DW2 Sh. Nasir has stated that he purchased a house situated in B­

Block, gali no.14, Siri Ram Colony, Rajiv Nagar, Khajoori Khas from 

accused Israr vide registered GPA, Agreement to sell and Deed of Will for 

Rs.95,000/­ on 21.06.2007 and the documents bear his photo at point A and 

that of Israr at point B. The photocopies of the above documents are 

Ex.PW2/A (Colly.). DW3 Sh. Mohd. Tauqeer has stated that accused Israr 

is his elder brother. On 12.02.2008 at about 12.30 am, some police persons 

came to their house alongwith accused Israr and searched the house. They 

took away Rs.95,000/­ from their house which were kept for his marriage. 

This amount of Rs.95,000/­ was the sale proceed of the house and a plot 

which were sold to Nasir. He also stated that police took away his mobile 

phone and Rs.25,00/­ cash from his purse. PW Ghanshyam was not with SC No.55/08 10/34 the police at that time. 18. I have heard Sh S.C. Sharma, Addl PP for the State and Sh. L.D. 

Mual, counsel for the accused Israr and Sh. A. Alvi, counsel for accused 

Shabnam and also gone through the record carefully. 19. On behalf of accused Shabnam, Sh. I.A. Alvi, Advocate has 

submitted that as per prosecution's case, on the basis of disclosure 

statement of accused Mohd. Israr, accused Shabnam was arrested from 

Main Road, Akshardham Mandir, Noida Mod at about 1.30 pm with fake 

currency notes of Rs.15,500/­. The attack is mainly on the disclosure 

statement Ex.PW4/C of accused Mohd. Israr on the ground that it is bearing 

the date 11.02.2008 and it has been written by Ct. Umesh Kumar after he 

returned to the spot with copy of FIR and rukka at about 2.00 am and by 

that time, the date changed to 12.02.2008. Further as per seizure memo 

Ex.PW2/A, accused Shabnam was apprehended at 1.30 pm on 12.02.2008 

but none of the PWs proved that she was apprehended at the instance of co­

accused Mohd. Israr and some of the witnesses have also given the time of 

apprehension of accused Shabnam at 4.00/4.30 pm on 12.02.2008. 20. Ld. defence counsel for accused Shabnam has also heavily relied 

upon DD No.9 dated 12.02.2008 Ex.PW10/DA as per which co­accused 

Mohd. Israr was taken out of the police station at about 2.00 pm and in 

these circumstances, it was not possible for them to be present at 

Akshardham Mandir at 1.30 pm on 12.02.2008 thus the entire story 

regarding apprehension of accused Shabnam at 1.30 pm from near 

Akshardham Mandir is false. It is further contended that IO SI Vinay Tyagi 

has admitted that time of apprehension of accused Shabnam is mentioned SC No.55/08 11/34 as 1.30 pm in seizure memo Ex.PW2/A and time of arrest has been given as 

4.30 pm and claimed it to be a slip of pen that time of apprehension 

mentioned in the memo was 1.30 pm but he failed to rectify the said 

mistake at any stage till filing of the chargesheet and that on the remand 

papers also, the date and time of apprehension has been given as 

12.02.2008 at 1.30 pm and these facts also create strong doubt regarding 

the time and place of apprehension of accused Shabnam and recovery of 

fake currency from her possession. Ld. defence counsel has also referred to 

the overwriting in the arrest memo Ex.PW2/B where time of arrest has been 

initially written as 1.30 pm and subsequently '1' has been changed to '4' 

which shows the manipulation by the Investigating Officer. He has also 

pointed out the contradictions in the statement of witnesses regarding time 

of apprehension of accused Shabnam at the instance of co­accused Mohd. 

Israr but signature of co­accused Mohd. Israr is not even appearing on the 

seizure memo Ex.PW2/A. Ld. defence counsel for accused Shabnam has 

further submitted that as per statement of PW­2 ASI Nirmal Kumari, the 

case property i.e. fake currency notes were not sealed and seized at the spot 

but at a later stage whereas other witnesses claimed that case property was 

sealed and seized at the spot these facts do not find mention in the 

statement of witnesses under Sec.161 CrPC. It has been further submitted 

that there are contradictions on the aspect whether the position was taken 

by the members of the raiding party towards Ghaziabad side at Noida Mod 

or near Akshardham Mandir. No public witness has been joined at the time 

of arrest of accused Shabnam, recovery of fake currency from her 

possession and seizure and sealing of fake currency which also makes the SC No.55/08 12/34 case of prosecution doubtful. Ld. defence counsel for accused Shabnam 

has also referred to the statement of D2W1 Sh. Mursaleen to the effect that 

accused Shabnam was lifted from her house on 12.02.2008 at 11.00 am 

alongwith genuine currency notes of her mother and later on, falsely 

implicated in this case. 21. On behalf of accused Mohd Israr, Sh. L.D. Mual, Advocate has 

submitted that accused Mohd. Israr is innocent and falsely implicated in 

this case. Even the disclosure statement being made by this accused is 

highly doubtful because as per his disclosure statement, co­accused 

Shabnam was to come at Akshardham Mandir at 4.30 pm but as per arrest 

memo Ex.PW2/B of co­accused Shabnam, she was already arrested at 1.30 

pm and the IO has subsequently changed the figure '1' into '4'. The 

presence of accused Mohd. Israr at the time of apprehension of co­accused 

Shabnam is doubtful because memos pertaining to co­accused Shabnam do 

not bear the signature of accused Mohd Israr. Ld. defence counsel has 

further contented that the apprehension and arrest of accused Mohd. Israr 

from ISBT, Anand Vihar at 8.15 pm is highly doubtful as his arrest has 

been shown at 2.30 am on 12.02.2008 and it is unbelievable that for more 

than seven hours, accused Mohd. Israr was not arrested. The seizure memo 

pertaining to accused Mohd. Israr is not signed by any independent witness 

and even in his disclosure statement, it is not mentioned as to where the 

currency notes were hidden and further the brother and wife of accused 

Mohd. Israr though present at his house, they were not made to sign the 

seizure memo. 22. Ld. defence counsel for accused Mohd. Israr has also expressed SC No.55/08 13/34 suspicion on the presence of public witness i.e. PW­5 Sh. Ghanshyam at 

3.00/4.00 am at Shaitan Chowk and further his credibility as a witness as he 

even could not tell the name and address of the owner of the TSR or its 

driver which is very abnormal conduct. Ld. defence counsel has further 

contended that the prosecution has failed to examine the owner and driver 

of the TSR to confirm the presence of PW­5 Sh. Ghanshyam at Shaitan 

Chowk at 3.00 am. There are also contradictions in the statement of PW­5 

Sh. Ghanshyam, PW­9 Inspector Subhash Vats and PW­10 SI Vinay 

Tyagi about the duration for which they stayed at the house of accused 

Mohd. Israr. Although the prosecution's case is that the raiding team 

visited the shop of the accused Mohd. Israr at Malka Ganj but owner of the 

shop has not been examined which established that on 12.02.2008 accused 

Mohd. Israr was not in custody of the police and entire investigation 

proceedings are nullity. Ld. defence counsel has contended that no 

investigation has been conducted in respect of other persons named in the 

disclosure statement of accused Mohd. Israr and this accused has examined 

three defence witnesses to prove that accused Mohd. Israr has sold his 

house for Rs.95,000/­, therefore, the possession of Rs.95,000/­ was not 

illegal rather this amount of Rs.95,000/­ was replaced with fake currency 

notes at the instance of rival party and in the circumstances, accused Mohd. 

Israr deserves to be acquitted. 23. I have considered the rival contentions and carefully gone through 

the record. First of all, the case of prosecution against accused Mohd. Israr 

is to be considered to find out if the recovery of fake currency of Rs.

80,000/­ from the possession of accused Mohd. Israr at ISBT, Anand Vihar SC No.55/08 14/34 and Rs.19,500/­ from his house has been proved beyond reasonable doubt. 

On behalf of accused Mohd. Israr, one of the ground on which the case of 

the prosecution has been challenged is that the time of apprehension of 

accused Israr is about 8.15 pm from near ISBT Anand Vihar but he has 

been shown arrested at 2.30 am on 12.02.2008 and for more than seven 

hours, the accused could not have been detained at the spot without 

arresting him. In this regard, there are statements of P­4 Ct. Raj Kumar, 

PW8 Ct. Umesh Kumar, PW9 Inspr. Subhash Vats and PW10 SI Vinay 

Tyagi to the effect that after the accused was apprehended at about 8.15 pm 

and he was interrogated regarding he being in possession of fake currency 

notes. In the instant case, the recovery of fake currency notes is from the 

shoes of accused Israr. It was not an easy task for the investigating officer 

to find out where the fake currency was hidden. Most of the writing work 

in this case has been done by SI Vinay Tyagi in his own hand. The writing 

work contains all the details including the numbers of the recovered fake 

currency notes and thereafter he has also prepared the rukka giving all 

details which was sent through Ct. Umesh Kumar at 10.25 pm. DD No.10­

A is regarding registration of the case from 11.30 pm to 1.15 am meaning 

thereby that 1 hour and 45 minutes have been taken by the Duty Officer in 

recording the FIR only. It has come in the statement of PW­1 ASI U.R. 

Khan, the Duty Officer that Ct. Umesh Kumar left the Police Station at 

about 1.20 am and in these circumstances, he must have taken about one 

hour in returning to the spot and after receiving the copy of the FIR, 

accused was arrested in this case. Even if the time calculated roughly in the 

above manner, the time of arrest at 2.30 am cannot be with inordinate delay SC No.55/08 15/34 for the reason that lot of writing work was required to be done by the 

investigating officer before arresting the accused in this case, hence this 

argument is liable to rejected. 24. The next contention of ld. Defence counsel is that the disclosure 

statement of accused Israr is doubtful as per which accused Shabnam was 

expected to come at Akshardham Mandir at about 4.30 pm but as per her 

arrest memo Ex.PW2/B she was already arrested at 1.30 pm and later on 

figure '1' has been changed to '4' by the Investigating Officer and also that 

arrest memo and disclosure statement of accused Israr do not bear the 

signature of accused Israr which shows that he was not present at that time 

and he also did not make any disclosure statement in which even it is not 

mentioned as to where the fake currency notes were hidden by him. The IO 

has already explained that so far as time of arrest of accused Shabnam 

initially mentioned as 1.30 pm is concerned, it was due to slip of pen and 

infact she was arrested at 4.30 pm. No doubt the figure of '1' has been 

changed into '4' on the arrest memo but convincing explanation has been 

given for the same. Otherwise also had the investigating officer wanted to 

manipulate the time of arrest of accused Shabnam, he could have prepared 

another arrest memo mentioning the time of arrest as per his requirement. 

So far as disclosure statement of accused Mohd. Israr is concerned, 

pursuant to this disclosure statement, recovery of Rs.19,500/­ has been 

effected from his house in the presence of his family members. Just 

because the family members were not made to sign the seizure memo is no 

ground to disbelieve the testimony of police officials i.e. PW­4 Ct. Raj 

Kumar, PW8 Ct. Umesh Kumar, PW9 Inspr. Subhash Vats and PW10 SI SC No.55/08 16/34 Vinay Tyagi as this recovery has been witnessed by one public witness Sh. 

Ghanshyam. 25. A doubt has also been tried to be created by Sh. L.D. Mual, Advocate 

for accused Mohd. Israr regarding presence of public witness Sh. 

Ghanshyam at Shaitan Chowk at about 3.00­4.00 am so as to witness the 

recovery of fake currency from the house of accused Mohd. Israr. The 

contention of ld. defence counsel is that it is not expected that a person 

would be present at that place at that time who even did not know the name 

and address of the owner of the TSR or the name and address of the driver 

from whom he had to take the TSR nor the TSR owner has been examined. 

The prosecution has been able to prove through the testimony of PW­5 

Ghanshyam about his presence at Shaitan Chowk when raiding party was 

passing through that place. It is a matter of common knowledge that TSR 

drivers mostly ply the same on hire and owner is just concerned about the 

hire charges. One driver hands over the charge of TSR to another driver 

after his shift is over and it is not the name of the driver which Sh. 

Ghanshyam was supposed to know but the TSR number i.e DL­1G­2378 

that was going to be handed over to him as the identity was to be of TSR 

which he was supposed to ply at that time. So there was hardly any need 

for the prosecution to examine the owner of the TSR or the driver who was 

expected to hand over the TSR to public witness PW5 Sh. Ghanshyam at 

Shaitan Chowk. It is also relevant to mention here that PW5 Sh. 

Ghanshyam is also resident of Sri Ram Colony, Khajuri and accused Mohd. 

Israr is also resident of the same colony, but both were not known to each 

other. It has also come in the statement of PW5 Sh. Ghanshyam that from SC No.55/08 17/34 Shaitan Chowk upto the house of accused Mohd. Israr, they walked on foot 

and the distance was about 100­150 meters. When one public witness had 

already been joined by the raiding party, there was hardly any need to wake 

up the neighbourers to join the recovery proceedings. So far as non­

obtaining of signature of family members of Mohd. Israr is concerned, it is 

a matter of common knowledge that even if they signed the recovery 

memo, normal human conduct suggest that they would not have preferred 

to depose against their own kith and kin. There is another angle from 

which the present case can be considered. First of all, the Special Cell 

Officers were not having any acquaintance, enmity or hostility towards 

accused Mohd. Israr so as to falsely implicate him in this case by planting 

fake currency. PW5 Sh. Ghanshyam also would not have preferred to 

depose against the resident of his own locality, had there been no recovery 

of fake currency in his presence. It is equally important to mention here 

that if PW5 Sh. Ghanshyam was to be made false witness to the recovery of 

fake currency from the house of accused Mohd. Israr, the IO could have 

shown him to have joined the proceedings at ISBT, Anand Vihar itself at 

8.15 pm so as to prove the entire recovery from accused Mohd. Israr in 

presence of public witness. The time taken in interrogation of the accused, 

recovery of fake currency from his shoes, preparation of various memos 

and rukka, the time taken in sending the rukka, registration of the FIR and 

return of Ct. Umesh Kumar to the spot and then heading towards the house 

of the accused at that odd hours is sufficient to come to the conclusion that 

writing work has not been done by the IO while sitting in the office but at 

the spot without any facility and public witness has also been joined from SC No.55/08 18/34 the stage he could find and join. It has already been discussed above that 

presence of public witness at 3.00­4.00 am at Shaitan Chowk when the 

police party was passing through there and he was waiting for the TSR to 

be handed over to him, is quite natural and probable. When the TSR 

drivers work in shift, it is for them to decide at what time they want to start 

their day's work. The motive attributed by accused Mohd. Israr to the 

prosecution witnesses and in his statement u/s 313 CrPC is that due to 

professional rivalry at his work place in Malka Ganj, he has been falsely 

implicated in this case. There is no Income tax return on record by accused 

Mohd. Israr to show his flourishing business. Even otherwise, at the most 

under the influence of local businessman of the same profession, local 

police might have tried to help them and not the Special Cell which is 

definitely not created to settle some personal score or serve professional 

interest. Further if at all, the accused was to be falsely implicated by 

Special Cell for one reason or the other, the recovery of fake currency of 

Rs.80,000/­ from his shoes at ISBT Anand Vihar, would have served the 

purpose and there was no need to interrogate him further and effect further 

recovery from his house and then next day to seek his police remand and 

effect the recovery from co­accused Shabnam. Apart from that the fake 

currency could have been shown to have been recovered from the bag or 

pocket of the accused if it was improbable to carry Rs.80,000/­ in two 

bundles of Rs.40,000/­ in each shoes worn by the accused Mohd. Israr at 

that time. In the Court, the live demonstration was given by the IO and 

accused was made to put on the shoes with fake currency being put under 

the feet in the shoes and then walk. Nothing improbable appeared in the SC No.55/08 19/34 demonstration given in the Court by SI Vinay Tyagi and this also lends 

necessary strength to the case of the prosecution about the manner in which 

fake currency notes of Rs.80,000/­ was recovered from the shoes of accused 

Mohd. Israr. Further non­signing of arrest memo and seizure memo of 

accused Shabnam by accused Mohd. Israr is also not fatal to the case of the 

prosecution as neither it was legal requirement nor accused Mohd. Israr, the 

co­accused could have appeared in the witness box to prove the disclosure 

of accused Shabnam and recovery from her. The contradictions regarding 

duration for which the raiding team stayed at the house of accused Mohd. 

Israr pointed out by ld. defence counsel are bound to occur when the 

witness makes statement after lapse of time and cannot be termed as 

material contradictions, hence of no benefit to the accused. 26. In the case Bharuda Broginbhai Harjibhai vs. State of Gujrat, AIR 

1983 SC 753 it was held that discrepancies which do not go to the root of 

the matter and shake the basic version of the prosecution should not be 

attached undue importance. Their Lordships have enumerated following 

reasons for arriving at this conclusion :­

 "By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a 
 photographic memory and to recall the details of an 
 incident. It is not as if a video tape is replayed on the 
 mental screen. 2) Ordinarily, it so happens that a witness is overtaken 
 by events. The witness could not have anticipated the 
 occurrence which so often has an element of surprise. 
 Thus mental faculties, therefore, cannot be expected to 
 be attuned to absorb the details. SC No.55/08 20/34 object or movement might emboss image on one person's 
 mind, whereas it might go unnoticed on the part of 
 another. 4) By and large people cannot accurately recall a 
 conversation and reproduce the very words used by them 
 on heard by them. They can only recall the main purport 
 of the conversation. It is unrealistic to expect a witness 
 to be a human tape­recorder. 5) In regard to exact time of an incident or the time 
 duration of an occurrence, usually, people make their 
 estimates by guess­work at spur of moment, at the time 
 of interrogation and one cannot expect people make very 
 precise or reliable estimates in such matters. Again, it 
 depends upon the time­sense of individuals which varies 
 from person to person. 6) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall 
 accurately the sequence of events which takes place in 
 rapid succession or in a short time span. A witness is 
 liable to get confused, or mixed up when interrogated 
 later on. 7) A witness though wholly truthful, is liable to be 
 overawed by the court atmosphere and the piercing 
 cross­examination made by counsel and out of 
 nervousness mix­up facts, get confused regarding 
 sequence of events, or fill up details of imagination at the 
 spur of the moment. The sub­conscious mind of the 
 witness sometimes so operates on account of the fear of 
 looking foolish or being disbelieved, though the witness 
 is giving a truthful and honest account of the occurrence 
 witnessed by him, perhaps it is a sort of psychological 
 moment." SC No.55/08 21/34 27. In another case reported as State of U.P. vs. M.K. Anthony , AIR 1985 

SC 48 following guidelines have been laid down by the Apex Court for the 

appraisal of the evidence : Their Lordships further observed : 28. In the instant case, so far as recovery of fake currency notes of 

Rs.80,000/­ from the shoes of accused Mohd. Israr at ISBT Anand Vihar SC No.55/08 22/34 and Rs.19,500/­ from his house is concerned, from the statements of PWs 

i.e. PW­4 Ct. Raj Kumar, PW­5 Ct. Ghanshyam, PW8 Ct. Umesh Kumar, 

PW9 Inspr. Subhash Vats and PW10 SI Vinay Tyagi, the same stands 

proved beyond reasonable doubt as during their cross examination nothing 

material has come on record which could make their testimony doubtful 

and merely because no public witness was joined during the proceedings 

conducted at ISBT Anand Vihar and non­examining of TSR owner, is no 

ground to disbelieve the testimony of police officials. 29. There is another contention of ld. defence counsel that accused 

Mohd. Israr has sold his house for Rs.95,000/­ and therefore, the possession 

of Rs.95,000/­ was not illegal rather this amount of Rs.95,000/­ was 

replaced with fake currency notes at the instance of rival party. If this 

version of defence witnesses is believed, immediately some complaint 

would have been made to the higher authorities or the Court when accused 

Mohd. Israr was produced for remand, about huge amount of Rs.95,000/­ 

being taken from the house of accused Mohd. Israr. It cannot be ignored 

that the genuine currency recovered from the house of accused Shabnam 

has been duly shown in the various memos and had genuine currency been 

recovered from accused Mohd. Israr, it could have also been reflected in the 

memos the way it has been done in Shabnam's case i.e. as sale proceed 

received in transaction of fake currency. The evidence adduced by the 

prosecution is sufficient to prove possession of fake currency and not 

trafficking in forged or counterfeit currency notes having reason to believe 

the same to be forged or counterfeit Indian currency notes, hence accused 

Mohd. Israr is held guilty for the offence punishable under Sec.498­C IPC . SC No.55/08 23/34 30. The case of the prosecution against accused Shabnam is that at the 

instance of accused Mohd. Israr, she was apprehended from near 

Akshardham Mandir when she was dropped there by one Indica Car and on 

her search by PW­2 W/ASI Nirmala, she was found in possession of fake 

currency of Rs.15,500/­ and she also led the police party to her house from 

where genuine currency of Rs.36,500/­ were seized. So far as contention of 

ld. Defence Counsel regarding the overwriting on the time of arrest i.e. 1.30 

pm made as 4.30 pm and departure of raiding party alongwith accused 

Mohd. Israr for Akshardham Mandir after 2.00 pm is concerned, no doubt 

there is overwriting on the arrest memo of accused Shabnam Ex.PW2/B 

wherein in the column No.7 regarding time of arrest, 1.30 pm has been 

changed to 4.30 pm. DD No.9 dated 12.02.2008 Ex.PW10/DA by SI Vinay 

Tyagi regarding departure for investigation and Court gives the time of 

departure as 2.00 pm alongwith accused Mohd. Israr for his production in 

Tis Hazari Court. The contention of ld. Defence counsel seems to be very 

attractive that if accused Shabnam was arrested at 1.30 pm as per arrest 

memo Ex.Pw2/B, accused Mohd. Israr being produced in the Court after 

2.00 pm by the IO for police custody, accused Shabnam could not have 

been got apprehended at the instance of accused Mohd. Israr from near 

Akshardham Mandir as she was already in custody much before that. But 

here the question is that if the IO SI Vinay Tyagi had to manipulate the 

things, so as to falsely implicated accused Mohd. Israr and Shabnam in this 

case, was it so difficult for him to change the arrest memo and manipulate 

the time of departure from the office of Special Cell so as not to leave any 

loop hole in the case of prosecution. Had everything been done by SI SC No.55/08 24/34 Vinay Tyagi while sitting in the office of Special Cell, then the chances of 

committing error in preparing the various memos were negligible. In that 

situation timings of proceeding for the Court with accused Israr seeking his 

police remand, proceeding for Akshardham Mandir, apprehension of 

accused Shabnam and her arrest could have been prepared in such manner 

as to justify each and every step without leaving any flaw. Even it was not 

necessary to show accused Shabnam being arrested at the instance of 

accused Mohd. Israr as she could have been independently arrested in a 

separate case for fake currency in her possession. The perusal of the record 

shows that most of the writing work had been completed by SI Vinay Tyagi 

in his own handwriting and the investigation not only included 

apprehension of accused Mohd. Israr but also his search, writing the 

numbers of currency notes worth Rs.80,000/­ which were recovered from 

his shoes, his further interrogation and then search of his house and work 

place as well as his production in the Court and his police remand. From 

the time of information regarding accused Mohd. Israr at 5.00 pm, the 

members of the raiding team were just on the run and in that circumstances, 

if error about time appeared in the writing work which was done 

continuously for hours, it was human error. It also cannot be ignored that 

when SI Vinay Tyagi himself was making the departure entry at 2.00 pm 

for producing accused Mohd. Israr in the Court and seeking his police 

remand and then arresting accused Shabnam from near Akshardham 

Mandir at about 4.30 pm, he had absolutely no reason to mention the time 

of her arrest as 1.30 pm which was contrary to facts and record. It appears 

that by mistake, the time of arrest has been written as 1.30 pm which was SC No.55/08 25/34 corrected by him as 4.30 pm bonafidely just to put the record straight 

without any manipulation. 31. Another contention of ld. Defence counsel is that accused Shabnam 

was apprehended from her house by SI Vinay Tyagi and other team 

members for inquiry purpose and later on in the office of Special Cell, there 

was some hot words exchange resulting into her false implication in this 

case. This contention of ld. Defence counsel also does not find favour with 

me for the simple reason that if at all SI vinay Tyagi wanted to falsely 

implicate someone in a case of fake currency, then the first casualty would 

have been brother of accused Shabnam who dropped her near Akshardham 

Mandir. SI Vinay Tyagi has specifically stated that her brother was not 

found involved in this crime. If somebody was to be implicated by SI Vinay 

Tyagi, then it could be some male member of the family of accused 

Shabnam and there was absolutely no reason for SI Vinay Tyagi to take 

away accused Shabnam from her house on the pretext of inquiry and then 

falsely implicate her in this case had the fake currency not been recovered 

from her at Akshardham Mandir. It is also relevant to mention here that 

accused Shabnam has stated that her family was there when she was 

brought from her house by SI Vinay Tyagi and then her brother had come 

to the office of Special Cell. However, there is nothing on record to 

suggest that when she was brought for purpose of making inquiry but not 

released, her brother who happens to be a witness to her arrest memo 

Ex.PW2/B or any other family members complained to the Court or any 

other higher authority about she being taken away by SI Vinay tyagi on the 

pretext of making inquiry. The mere fact that no such complaint was ever SC No.55/08 26/34 made to any higher authority or the Court falsifies the defence version of 

being lifted from her house on the pretext of making inquiry. The version 

of the IO that initially accused Mohd. Israr was apprehended, arrested and 

interrogated and he was taken on police custody remand, on the basis of his 

disclosure of accused Mohd. Israr, accused Shabnam was apprehended 

from near Akshardham and fake currency worth Rs.15,500/­ was recovered 

from her possession is trustworthy and inspiring confidence. It also cannot 

be ignored that the purses which have been recovered from accused 

Shabnam were later on claimed by her from the Court and ordered to be 

returned to her. It is nowhere the case of accused Shabnam that when she 

was taken from her house, her purses and other things were also taken by SI 

Vinay Tyagi which also lends support to the statements of PW­4 Ct. Raj 

Kumar, PW8 Ct. Umesh Kumar, PW9 Inspr. Subhash Vats PW­10 SI Vinay 

Tyagi regarding involvement of accused Shabanm in this case. 32. Even at the cost of repetition, it can be said that it is not a case where 

the members of the raiding team were doing the writing work in the office. 

Taking into consideration the heavy quantity of fake currency recovered 

from accused Mohd. Israr and his subsequent disclosure and apprehension 

of accused Shabnam, I find that the investigation has been conducted in a 

fair and impartial manner without implicating other members of the family 

of accused Shabnam who could otherwise be easy targets. There is no 

evidence available on record that genuine currency notes amounting to 

Rs.36,500/­ recovered at the instance of accused Shabnam from her house 

were exchanged in lieu of fake currency worth Rs.55,000/­. Rather the 

genuine currency recovered from her house could not in any way be SC No.55/08 27/34 connected with any such transaction as no such evidence has been produced 

by the prosecution that they were procured due to trafficking in fake 

currency, hence the amount of Rs.36,500/­ is liable to be returned to the 

rightful owner. In the case Syed Abbas Mehdi Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) 

2005 VII AD (Delhi) 528, it was held that transaction of sale was not 

completed as counterfeit currency note had not been handed over to the 

shopkeeper, hence ingredients of Section 489­B IPC are not made. 33. In the instant case, the prosecution has failed to prove any conspiracy 

between accused Mohd. Israr and Shabnam regarding procuring the fake 

currency and spreading the same in Delhi or any other State of India. Even 

when accused Shabnam was apprehended from near Akshardham Mandir at 

the instance of accused Mohd. Israr, there was no communication between 

them which could indicate that they, in conspiracy with each other, were 

trafficking in forged currency notes of Rs.500/­ denomination in Delhi or 

any other State of India. The mere fact that accused Shabnam has been 

arrested at the instance of accused Mohd. Israr in itself is no sufficient to 

prove the offence of conspiracy as both the accused were independently in 

possession of the fake currency, hence both the accused are liable to be 

acquitted for the offence punishable under Sec.120 ­B IPC and 489­B r/w 

120­B IPC . However, the evidence adduced by the prosecution only proves 

the possession of fake currency i.e. Rs.99,500/­ by accused Mohd. Israr and 

Rs.15,500/­ by accused Shabnam which they were knowing or having 

reasons to believe the same to be forged or counterfeit and intending to use 

the same as genuine, hence both the accused are liable to be held guilty for 

the offence punishable under Sec.489 ­C IPC . SC No.55/08 28/34 34. In view of above discussion, both the accused namely Mohd. Israr 

and Shabnam are acquitted of the charge under Sec.120 ­ IPC and 489­B r/w 

120­B IPC . Accused Mohd. Israr is held guilty for the offence punishable 

u/s 489­C IPC for being found in possession of fake currency of 

Rs.99,500/­ and accused Shabnam is held guilty for the offence punishable 

u/s 489­C IPC for being found in possession of fake currency of 

Rs.15,500/­ and they are convicted accordingly. Announced in the open Court

01.10.2010 (PRATIBHA RANI)
 DJ­III­cum­I/c ASJ (West)/Delhi SC No.55/08 29/34 IN THE COURT OF SMT. PRATIBHA RANI, 
 DJ­III­CUM­ASJ (WEST)/DELHI
 ***
SC No. ­ 55/08

Unique ID No. 02401RO557562008

State Vs. 1. Israr S/o Ali Jhan,
 R/o H.N. B­302, Sri Ram Cly.,
 Khajuri, Delhi 2. Ms. Shabnam @ Rukshana @
 Ritu W/o Nawab Khan,
 R/o H.N. 27/55, Block­27,
 Trilok Puri, Delhi. I have heard Sh. L.D. Mual, ld. Defence counsel for convict Mohd. 

Israr, Sh. I.A. Alvi, ld. Defence counsel for convict Shabnam and Addl. PP 

for the State. 2. On behalf of convict Mohd. Israr, Sh. L.D. Mual, advocate has 

submitted that this convict has clean antecedent and was never involved in 

any case till his arrest in this case. He has young wife, three minor children SC No.55/08 30/34 and aged parents to support. It is further submitted that barring 22 days 

when he was granted interim bail, right from the date of his arrest on 

12.02.2008, he is in custody and has already suffered enough for his acts, 

hence a lenient view has been prayed. 3. On behalf of convict Shabnam, Sh. I.A. Alvi, Advocate has 

submitted that this convict has also clean antecedents and she has two 

daughters, one biological daughter aged about 21 years and one foster 

daughter aged about 8 years. She is a divorcee and there is none to take 

care of her daughters and she has also been in custody for more than 13 

months. It is also submitted that only fake currency of Rs.15,500/­ has 

been recovered from her possession. He prays for taking a lenient view. 4. On the other hand ld. Addl. PP for the State has submitted that the 

act of the convicts was to fail the Indian economy by circulating 

counterfeit/fake currency notes in the market and serious view may be 

taken in the matter while awarding sentence. 5. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of convicts. The 

nature of offence being committed by the convicts is quite serious as 

circulation of fake currency is very damaging for the entire economy of the 

country and persons like the convict who were found in possession of big SC No.55/08 31/34 amount of fake currency are serious threat to the society as well as to the 

economy of the nation. No doubt the circumstances narrated above on 

behalf of convicts, specially the fact that they have clean antecedents, can 

be considered by the Court so that a chance can be given to them to become 

a good citizen and join the main stream but at the same time sentence also 

should not be so lenient as to have no deterrent effect either on the convicts 

before this Court or on the potential offenders. 6. Taking into consideration the entire facts and circumstances of the 

case and submissions made on behalf of the convicts and the amount of 

fake currency recovered from them, convict Mohd. Israr is sentenced to 

undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 2½ years and to pay a fine 

of Rs.10,000/­ for the offence punishable under Sec.489 ­C IPC . In default 

of payment of fine, he shall undergo simple imprisonment for six months. 

Convict Shabnam is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a 

period of 1 year and to pay a fine of Rs.25,000/­ for the offence punishable 

under Sec.489 ­C IPC . In default of payment of fine, she shall undergo 

simple imprisonment for one year. The period of detention already 

undergone by the convicts during investigation/trial of the case, if any, shall 

be set off under Sec.428 CrPC. Case property i.e. fake currency notes shall SC No.55/08 32/34 be confiscated to the State and the genuine currency worth Rs.36,500/­ be 

returned to its rightful owner after the expiry of period of appeal, if any. 

File be consigned to Record Room. Announced in the open Court

05.10.2010 (PRATIBHA RANI)
 DJ­III­cum­I/c ASJ (West)/Delhi SC No.55/08 33/34 SC No.55/08 34/34