01. This appeal is filed by assessee against the appellate order of The
 Commissioner of Income tax (Appeals)-41, Mumbai [the learned CIT
 (A)] dated 29 December 2017 for Assessment Year 2011-12.
 Assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal:- 2. The CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts in not
 holding that the reopening of the assessment by issuing
 notice u/s. 148 of the Act was illegal and bad in law. 3. The CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts in
 concurring with the view of the Assessing Officer that the
 return of income manually filed u/s. 139(1) of the Act
 within due date was an invalid return as it was not filed
 electronically. Page | 2 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12 4. The CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts in
 sustaining the disallowance of deduction u/s. 80-lB of the
 Act claimed at ₹52,18,31,943/- solely as a consequence of
 the treatment given to the return of income manually filed
 u/s. 139(1) of the Act. 5. The CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts in
 confirming the addition of ₹9,80,300/- made u/s. 69C of
 the Act. 6. The appellant craves leave to add to, amend, alter
 or delete all or any of the foregoing grounds of appeal.‖ 02. Facts show that assessee is a firm engaged in business of real-estate
 development. Assessee has filed return of income on 30 September
 2011, [in paper format and not online] declaring gross total income
 of ₹52,18,31,943/-. It also claimed deduction under section 80 IB
 (10) of the income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act) of the same amount and
 offered total income at ₹ Nil. 03. Later on, Assessing Officer found that information has been received
 from DGIT (Investigation), Mumbai, that assessee has obtained
 accommodation entry in the form of bogus purchases of ₹9,80,300/-,
 therefore, after recording reasons, notice under section 148 of the
 Act was issued on 22nd April, 2014. 04. In response to that, assessee submitted that original return filed
 might be considered as return of income filed in response to the
 above notice. Subsequent to that, the requisite notices were issued. 05. During the course of assessment proceedings, assessee was asked to
 furnish the details of purchases for verification as well as to produce
 suppliers to prove genuineness of purchases. On 1/02/2016,
 Assessee submitted copies of purchase bills, delivery challans, bank
 payments details, copies of accounts etc. However, it expressed its
 inability to produce parties. As key persons of the suppliers have
 denied to have made any genuine sale to their customers before the
 Sale Tax Authorities, and as assessee failed to produce the suppliers
 Page | 3 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 for verification, the learned Assessing Officer held that assessee has
 failed to discharge its onus, Hence, ₹9,80,300/- was added to the
 total income of the assessee under section 69C of the Act. 06. At the time of recording reasons, the Assessing Officer noted that
 assessee has not filed any return for Assessment Year 2011-12.
 However, in response to notice u/s 148 of the Act, assessee has
 submitted to treat the return filed under section 139(1) of the Act on
 30 September 2011 as return filed in response to notice u/s 148 of
 the Act. The learned Assessing Officer examined whether on ITD
 system return filed by assessee is available or not. The learned
 Assessing Officer found that return for Assessment Year 2011-12 is
 not available. Assessee was questioned about the ROI. Assessee
 submitted that in terms of its written submissions dated 20th
 September, 2011 and 30th September, 2011 addressed to ACIT,
 Central Circle-32, Mumbai for filing the return in physical format
 along with audited financial statements and form no. 10CCB for the
 reason that the Director of the Company were jailed and the digital
 signature could not be affixed of the signatory to the return of
 income, Therefore, Assessee filed return of income manually [ In
 paper format and not online] on 30th September, 2011 and
 therefore the same is not available on ITD. 07. The learned Assessing Officer held that physical return filed on 30
 September 2011 is not a valid return filed under section 139(1) of
 the Act. The Assessing Officer relied upon the decision of co-ordinate
 Bench in case of shri Dwarkadas G. Panchmatiya vs. ACIT in ITA No.
 4727/Mum/2012 for Assessment Year 2008-09 dated 30 January
 2015. Accordingly, he held that the claim of deduction under section
 80IB of the Act does not satisfy the conditions prescribed under section 80AC of the Act, which are mandatory. He therefore,
 disallowed the deduction under section 80IB of the Act of ₹52, 18,
 31,943/-. Page | 4 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12 08. Consequently, ld AO passed assessment order under section 143(3) of the Act read with section 147 of the Act on 28th March, 2016
 assessing total income of the assessee at ₹52,28,12,243/-. Thus, in
 the assessment order the learned Assessing Officer made two
 adjustments

 [1] Addition under section 69C of the Act of ₹9,80,300/- for
 failure to justify purchases for which assessment is
 reopened u/s 147 of the Act and

 [2] Disallowance of deduction under section 80IB(10) of the
 Act of ₹52,18,31,943/-. 09. The assessee aggrieved with the above order preferred an appeal
 before the learned CIT (A). Assessee challenged the reopening of
 the assessment on several counts but the LD CIT [A] held that

 ― 12. So far as reopening of the instant case is
 concerned, it is found that the information from Sales Tax
 Department and DGIT (investigation), was very much
 specific relevant revealing the accommodation entries
 taken by the appellant. The information related to bogus
 purchase claimed by the appellant was undoubtedly a fresh
 and tangible material to reopen the case. In this regard, I
 do not agree with the AR that the AO has merely relied
 upon the information received from investigation wing to
 reopen the appellant's case and no independent
 conclusion was formed by AO. 13 The DGIT (investigation), Mumbai communicated about
 the information regarding fictitious purchases/sales of
 accommodation entries wherein the appellant was a
 beneficiary of accommodation bills provided by five entities
 as mentioned in the assessment order without actual
 delivery of goods to the extent of ₹ 980,300/- during AY
 2011 - 12. On the basis of the above stated facts, the AO
 reached to the conclusion that since the assessee had not
 purchased any goods from the five bogus parties, the
 expenditure to the extent of ₹ 980,300/- representing
 purchases made from such parties was inflated by the
 assessee. Page | 5 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12 14. Keeping in view the above facts, the AO issued notice
 u/s 148 as per the provisions contained in the Section 147 of the IT act, 1961. The AO had formed the reason of
 escapement of income from taxation after noticing that no
 return of income was filed by the appellant for the year
 under consideration, as per the prescribed procedure as
 well as the information received from the DGIT
 (investigation) regarding the alleged bogus purchases
 made by the appellant. Non-e-filing of return of income and
 the information received were tangible material in the
 hands of AO, which resulted into the formation of the
 reason to believe that the income to the extent of ₹
 980,300/- chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for
 assessment year 2011 - 12. Once such a reason to believe
 has been formed by the AO on the basis of material
 available with him, he is well within his powers to issue
 notice u/s 147 / 148 as per procedure prescribed in that
 Section. Such formation of the reason to believe was on the
 basis of the information available which the AO was in his
 possession and acted upon and therefore the reopening of
 the assessment in this case cannot be faulted. 15. It is trite that the court should examine as to whether
 or not there was a reasonable belief on the part of the AO
 to come to a prima facie view that the income chargeable
 to tax has escaped assessment, if on examination of the
 facts on record, it can be held that there was a prima facie
 belief, the reopening of assessment has to be held valid.
 Sufficiency of reasons cannot be questioned at the initial
 stage. 16. In view of the facts and circumstances explained above,
 I am of the opinion that the objections of the appellant
 regarding the reopening of the case u/s 147 / 148 for the
 year under consideration are not valid, hence dismissed.
 Thus, the action of the AO in issuing the notice u/s 148 is
 upheld. Hence, the grounds challenging reopening and
 passing of the order are found to be without merit and
 hence rejected.‖ 010. On the validity of the return of income filed under section 139(1) manually, he upheld the findings of the learned Assessing Officer and
 confirmed that the return is an invalid return holding as under :- 18. The AO has noted in para 4.2 of the assessment order that
during the assessment proceedings, the appellant submitted
acknowledgement dated 30/9/2011 of ACIT, Central Circle - 32,
Mumbai with respect to filing of copy of physical return in form
number ITR - V. According to the AO, Under the provisions of Section 139 (1) , every firm is required to furnish the return
electronically with the digital signature in view of the provisions
of rule 12 (3) (ii) read with proviso (aaa) of The Income Tax
Rules. As such, the appellant was required to furnish the return
in ITR - V electronically under digital signature. Hence, the
physical return filed on 30/9/2011 with the then AO cannot be
treated as valid return filed u/s 139 (1) . The AO has also relied
upon the circular of the CBDT wherein every assessee was
required to file return electronically with the digital signature
from the assessment year 2010 - 11 and thus furnishing of
return electronically with digital signature was mandatory for the
year 2010 - 11 onwards. 19. The AO has also noted that the signature of all the partners
appear on form number 3CEB which was completed on
14th/9/2011. It is also found that the appellant had prepared the
profit and loss account and all the partners signed the
documents on 21/05/2011. However, no signature of the
partner is found in form number 10CCB. This demonstrates that
the books of accounts of the firm were completed in the month
of May 2011 itself and the audit were completed on 14/9/2011.
The due date for filing of the return was 30/9/2011. Hence, the
appellant firm does not have any reason not to arrange for the
registration of another digital signature in the system, even if
claim of the appellant is accepted that the main promoters of
the DB group were arrested in the matter related to 2G scam.
According to the AO, there is no provision in the I-T act which
stipulates that the appellant firm may file the return physically
in the condition where an appellant is prevented to file the
return of income electronically. Hence, the physical return filed
on 30/9/2011 is treated as invalid return by the AO. 20. On the other hand, according to the learned AR the main
promoter of the DB group, namely Shri Shahid Balwa, and also
Mr Rajeev Agarwal who are arrested and jailed in relation to the
matters relating to the 2G scam. Due to this, no person in the
DB group was ready to cooperate in giving the digital signature
of the concerned person who is director of a partner company.
Thus, the partners were not able to obtain digital signature and
use the same for electronic filing. The electronic filing process
were initiated but due to lack of digital signature, the appellant
could not complete the uploading of the return electronically. Page | 7 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

The learned AR has relied upon the provisions of Section 292B .
According to him, no return of income will be deemed to be
invalid merely by reason of any mistake, defect or omission in
such a return of income, if such return of income is in substance
and in effect in conformity with or according to the intent and
purpose of the IT act. As per learned AR the return of income
filed manually on 30/9/2011 cannot be considered as invalid
since it is in substance and in conformity with the intended
purpose of the act. At best, the return of income may be
considered as defective but same cannot be considered as
invalid return. Moreover, if the return has been treated as
defective return, then the appellant firm would have received
the notice stating that the return of income is as defective.
However, till date no such notice was received. The learned AR
has relied upon the board circular number 14 (XL - 35) of 1955,
dated 11/4/1955. In view of the above facts in explanation,
return of income filed by the appellant needs to be considered
as a valid return filed u/s 139 (1) . 21. After thought for consideration, I am not persuaded by the
aforesaid arguments of the learned that AR of the appellant. (b) being a person other than a company or a firm, if his total
income or the total income of any other person in respect of
which he is assessable under this Act during the previous year
exceeded the maximum amount which is not chargeable to
income-tax,

shall, on or before the due date, furnish a return of his income
or the income of such other person during the previous year, in
the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner and
setting forth such other particulars as may be prescribed : 22. It is observed that Under rule 12 (3) (AAA) of IT rules, for
assessment year 2011 - 12, a firm required to furnish the
return in form number ITR - 5 shall furnish the return for
assessment year 2011 - 12 and subsequent assessment years
in the manner specified in clause (ii) of the said rules, which is
furnishing the return electronically Under digital signature. The
rule states as Under:- 23. The learned AR contention that the manual return of income
may be considered as defective but not invalid return is without
any merit. The return of income compulsory required to be filed
electronically, but filed manually will not partake the character
of return of income filed u/s 139 (1) as per provisions of Section
139 (9) of the IT act related to defective return. There are two
basic requirements for treating return as defective return.
There should be a valid return of income furnished by the
assessee and thereafter it should be in the opinion of the
assessing officer that the said valid return of income is
defective. I find that both the basic requirements are lacking in
the instant case. As stated in the preceding paragraph, there is
no valid return of income filed by the appellant for the year
under consideration, in the form and manner prescribed u/s 139
(1) read with rule 12 (3). Further, the AO has not treated the
manual return as defective since considered opinion of the AO is
a prerequisite for treating the return as defective. Hence, the
alternative argument of the learned AR of the appellant lacks
merit. 24. It is also observed that the main reason professed by the
appellant, for non-filing of the electronic return with digital
signature is the main promoters of the DB group were arrested
in relation to the 2G scam. Hence, no person in the DB group
was ready to cooperate in giving the digital signature. I find no
substance in the above argument of the learned AR. Mr. Sahid
Balwa was arrested for his role in 2G Spectrum scam by CBI
 th
on 0 February 2011. No doubt , Mr Shahid Balwa was not
given bail till November 2011, but the same could not be a
reason for the appellant to procure digital signature in any
manner. It is observed that there are seven partners, all private
limited companies, of the appellant firm M/s DB properties
private limited was holding 50 % percent profit sharing ratio
while rest 50% profit were shared among six other companies.
As the paper book submitted during the appellate proceedings,
all the seven partners (directors/authorised signatories of the
companies) have signed the annual accounts for assessment
year 2011 - 12 including working of total income for tax
computation, tax audit report in form number 3CB form number
3CD, balance sheet, profit and loss account. With the signature
of one of the partners, directors of M/s sejraj financial services
Ltd, these details were submitted before the ACIT central circle - 32, Mumbai. Under these circumstances, the claim of the
 Page | 9 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

learned AR fails flat, that due to arrest of Mr Balwa , digital
signature could not be procured by the appellant firm. It is very
unlikely that none of the directors of seven companies, being
partners in the appellant firm was not able to procure digital
signature for the purpose of electronically filing return of income
just because Mr Balwa was Under arrest. If that was the
reason, none of these companies could have filed their returns
of income as well as for any other statutory work. Moreover,
filing of return of income by a firm electronically, was made
compulsory much before financial year 2010 - 11. Hence, there
was no reason for the appellant firm to postpone procurement of
digital signature till the last date of filing of return of income for
assessment year 2011 - 12. Hence the handicap expressed by
the learned authorised representative in procuring the digital
signature is not found convincing. 25. The reliance of the learned AR on the provisions of Section
292B is also found misplaced. In my considered opinion, Section
292B is helpful to such a return of income by mistakes, defects
or omission are of such a nature that the substance and effect is
in conformity with the intent and purposes of the IT act. Once,
the intent of the IT act is very clear that the return of income for
the year Under consideration are mandatory required to be filed
electronically with digital signature by a firm, filing of such
return of income manually cannot be said to be a curable
mistake or defect. In the case of CIT versus Harjinder Kaur (2009) 180 taxman 23 (P&H), honourable High Court has held
that where return of income filed by the assessee was neither
signed by her, nor was it verified in terms of mandate of Section
140 , such glaring inherent defect could not be cured in spite of
deeming effect of Section 292B . In the instant case too, Section 139 (1) clearly specifies that the return of income in the
case of has to be filed in accordance with rule 12 (3) (aaa) i.e.
electronically with digital signature, non-compliance of this
requirement of the act and the corresponding rule cannot be
cured by the deeming effect of Section 292B as held by
Honourable Punjab and Haryana High Court in the above-
mentioned case. 26. The learned AR's reliance upon the board circular number 14
(XL - 35) of 1955, dated 11/4/1955 is also of no help to the
appellant case as the appellant has failed in filing a valid return
for the year Under consideration. Hence, no benefit can be
provided in the light of the aforesaid board circular. The learned
that AR is also relied upon the decision of luxury goods retail
private limited versus DCIT in ITA number 3508/M/2016
(assessment year 2011 - 12). I find the facts of this case is
different from the case Under consideration. In the case of
luxury goods retail private limited, the assessee could not file
the return electronically u/s 139 (1) of the Income Tax Act and
 Page | 10 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 therefore the return was filed manually within the due date. Honourable tribunal after appreciation of the facts of the case
 held that there is a justifiable reason for nonfiling of return
 electronically and hence the benefit of set-off of and carry
 forward of losses should be allowed based on the manual return
 filed. However, in the instant case there was no such technical
 difficulty with the appellant in uploading the return. No digital
 signature was procured in spite of clear mandate in the act/rule
 and there was no difficulty in procuring the same by any of the
 partners, being directors of seven companies. Moreover, as per
 the decision of the honourable Punjab and Haryana High Court
 in the case of Harjinder Kaur (supra), such returns are to be
 treated as invalid returns and not curable by the deeming effect
 of Section 292B . It appears that the said decision of the
 honourable Punjab and Haryana High Court was not brought to
 the notice of honourable tribunal at the time of arguing the case
 of luxury goods retail private limited which is directly on this
 point and by a superior authority. 27, considering the totality of the facts and circumstances of the
 issues involved, it is very clear that the manual return filed by
 the appellant for the year Under consideration is non-est , as if
 the return does not exist or an invalid return." 011. Further as there is no valid return under section 139(1) of the Act, he
 also confirmed disallowance of deduction under section 80IB (10) of
 the Act. He held that :- est, there remains no strength in the argument of the learned
 that AR that the firm filed return of income within due date and
 also the documents relevant to the claim are also filed within
 due date. The Department did not take cognizance of the
 manual return filed with the ACIT, Central Circle and that was
 the reason that no intimation regarding filing of the return and
 its processing u/s 143 (1) of the IT act was received by the
 appellant. 31. The claim of the learned AR that the provisions of Section 80 of The Act is directory in nature are not mandatory is also not
 correct in view of the decision of the honourable Karnataka
 High Court in case of Unique shelters private limited versus
 Union of India (2013) 37 taxmann.com 338. The honourable
 High Court did not interfere with the observation of the AO that
 there is a strict applicability of Section 80 AC insofar as it
 relates to filing of return u/s 139 (1) for claiming deduction u/s
 80 IB (10) of the IT act. Accordingly, it was held that delay in
 filing of return of claim u/s 80 IB relief can only be condoned by
 CBDT. Page | 12 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12 32. I have also carefully perused the various judgments relied
 upon by the appellant and find this distinguishable on facts. All
 these cases, there were valid returns of income filed for claim
 of deduction Under chapter VI A. However, in the instant case,
 as held in the preceding paragraphs, there is no valid return
 filed for the year Under consideration for such claim of
 deduction u/s 80 IB. The same time, the reliance of the AO on
 the decision of honourable Mumbai tribunal in the case of
 Dwarkadas G Panchmatiya versus ACIT (supra) is in order. 33. Finally, there is no merit in the argument of the learned AR
 that just because in the preceding and succeeding years,
 deduction has been allowed to the appellant, the same should
 be allowed for the instant year too. Each year being a separate
 assessment year, the appellant is required to fulfill the
 conditions laid down in various provisions of the income tax act
 for each assessment year. If the appellant has not fulfilled
 conditions for claim of deduction u/s 80 IB for assessment year
 2011 - 12, it will not be allowed so, notwithstanding the
 deduction being allowed in the preceding years order in the
 succeeding years. 34. Looking to the totality of facts and circumstances of the issue
 involved in my considered opinion that appellant is not eligible
 for claim of deduction u/s 80 IB for the year Under
 consideration i.e. assessment year 2011 - 12. Hence, the
 grounds of appeal number 1, 2 and 4 dismissed." 012. With respect to the addition of bogus purchases, he confirmed the
 addition for reason that assessee failed to produce the relevant
 particulars for purchase of goods and production of suppliers before
 the learned Assessing Officer. The learned CIT (A) confirmed the
 disallowance relying on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 case of M/S. Kachwala Gems Vs. JCIT (2007) 288 ITR 10 (SC),
 Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in case of N.K. Industries Ltd. Vs. DCIT [2016] 72 taxmann.com 289 (Gujarat) and Hon'ble Delhi High Court
 in case of CIT vs. La Medica 250 ITR 575 (Del). Accordingly, appeal
 filed by the assessee was dismissed. Assessee is aggrieved with that
 has preferred this appeal. 013. The learned Authorized Representative as per grounds no. 1 and 2 of
 the appeal challenged the reopening of the assessment. He
 submitted that the case of the assessee was not selected for scrutiny
 Page | 13 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

for Assessment Year 2011-12, however, reopened by issue of notice
under section 148 of the Act dated 22nd April, 2014. Therefore, the
reopening is within 4 years. He referred to the reasons recorded by
the learned Assessing Officer and stated the learned Assessing
Officer has noted that no return of income is filed despite return of
income was filed manually. He further noted that learned Assessing
Officer has noted that assessee has purchase transactions amounting
to ₹9,80,300/- with five different parties who are engaged in
providing bills without actual delivery of materials. The learned
Authorized Representative submitted that the learned Assessing
Officer has stated that the above information is received by him but
there is no such information or its source is revealed by making
reference to the communication and manner of receipt of
information. Therefore, he stated that the learned Assessing Officer
does not have any information available with him but has merely
reopened the assessment without any tangible material. He further
submitted that there are discrepancies in information with
respect to names of the parties as well as amount. He stated that
there are enough evidences of receipt of material with respect to purchases transaction of all the 5 parties. He referred to Page No. 76 of the Paper Book, where the bill of purchase of material from M/s PK
Trading is produced amounting to ₹51,063/-. However, in the
reasons recorded by the learned Assessing Officer amount mentioned
is only ₹49,163/-. He therefore submitted that information received
by the learned Assessing Officer is vague. He further referred that
assessee purchase material from that party of ₹51,640/- and which
was paid by account payee cheque of the same account. He referred
to the bank statement of the assessee to show the above payments
and further referred to delivery challans, material receipt note of the
above material. He further stated that the learned Assessing Officer
stated a purchase of ₹1,15,148/- being bogus from M/s RB
Enterprises and for this proposition he referred to the invoice dated
 Page | 14 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

15 November 2010, at page no. 83 and 84 of the Paper Book. He
submitted that the bill itself shows material, delivery challans with
date, lorry receipt numbers, quantity and the rate; quantity check
and quality check report. The amount of consideration is paid by
cheques and is supported with delivery challans etc. Similar details
were also shown for purchase of ₹2,65,054/- from M/s Dinesh
Trading Company and M/s Deep Traders for ₹31,185/-. He further
stated that for purchase of ₹5,19,750/- The learned Assessing Officer
is not aware that whether the purchases are from M/s Maruti
Enterprises or M/s Apex Corporation. He stated that assessee has
purchased material from Apex Corporation, which is supported by
delivery challans, receipt of material, as well as the payments by
cheque. He further submitted that the learned Assessing Officer is
not aware about the amount of purchase as well as the parties from
whom the goods have been purchased. He therefore submitted that
the information received by the learned Assessing Officer did not
have any source and information is vague. He further stated that the
learned Assessing Officer did not make any inquiry prior to issue of
notice for reopening. He therefore claimed that reopening has been
made without any tangible material, non-application of mind and in
absence of any adequate inquiry. He relied upon the decision of
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of PCIT vs. G & G Pharma India Ltd.
[2017] 384 ITR 147 (Delhi) (HC) and decision of Hon'ble Bombay
High Court in case of PCIT vs. Vaman International Pvt. Ltd, ITA No.
1940/2017 dated 29 January 2020. He also referred to the decision
of co-ordinate Bench in that case dated 27 September 2017 stating
that the facts were identical. He submitted that the learned CIT (A)
has also wrongly confirmed the reopening of the assessment stating
that the information received from Sales Tax Department. He
submitted that there is a contradiction between the reasons recorded
by the Assessing Officer and finding of the learned CIT (A). He
submitted that the learned Assessing Officer in reasons recorded has
 Page | 15 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 stated that information has been received from „DGIT (Investigation),
 Mumbai‟, whereas, learned CIT (A) in Para no. 12 has wrongly
 referred to the issue that the information has been received from
 „Sales Tax Department and DGIT (Investigation), Mumbai‟. He
 therefore, stated that there is no reference of any information
 received from the Sales Department. In view of this, he submitted
 that reopening of the assessee deserves to be quashed on this
 ground itself. 014. On the issue of merits of the case referring to grounds no. 3 and 4,
 he stated that the disallowance of deduction under section 80IB was
 not part of the reasons recorded. Therefore, if the assessee
 succeeds on grounds no. 1 and 2, or on ground no 5 , grounds no. 3
 and 4 become academic. 015. He stated that assessee has challenged the addition of ₹9,80,300/- made under section 69C of the Act. If assessee succeeds on ground
 no. 5 even then, grounds no. 3 & 4 do not survive for the reason
 that reopening has been made for only one ground of addition under section 69C of the Act of ₹9,80,300/- and if the same does not
 survive no other addition can be made. For this proposition, he
 relied on the decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in case of Jet
 Airways. 016. He also relied on the decision of Pune Bench of ITAT that even if the
 addition is deleted in any appellate proceedings on the issue on
 which reopening is made, and then other additions which are not
 part of reasons for reopening do not survive. He referred to the
 decision in case of Prabhakar Damodar Gawade vs. ITO (200 TTD
 1017). 017. Even otherwise on the merits, he submitted that assessee filed
 manual return of income, as on that date the digital signature of the
 Director could not be affixed because of peculiar reasons. It was
 Page | 16 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 further stated that deduction under section 80IB (10) is allowed to
 the assessee for all earlier years in its entirety by passing orders
 under section 143(3) of the Act. He further relied on the decision of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in CIT Vs. Zila Sahakari Bank Ltd. in ITA No.
 60 of 2013, wherein return filed in old format was considered as valid
 as assessee has not sought to gain any unfair advantage in the
 matter. He therefore submitted that assessee is entitled to deduction
 under section 80IB(10) of the Act which is allowed to assessee
 consistently in past years and therefore there is no reason to disallow
 the same merely because assessee filed manual return instead of
 electronic return. 018. The learned DR submitted that there is no infirmity found in the
 reopening of the assessment as information was available with the
 learned assessing officer that assessee has booked purchases without
 receipt of material. This information was received from the director
 general of income tax (investigation). As the assessee has not filed
 any return of income electronically which was mandatory to be filed
 at that particular time, the learned assessing officer was having a
 belief that income of assessee has escaped assessment. The
 information received from director general of income tax,
 investigation, Mumbai is a tangible material. In absence of any
 return of income, no further enquiry was required to be made.
 Therefore, there is no infirmity in action of the learned assessing
 officer in reopening of the assessment u/s 148 of the act. He further
 submitted that merely there is a difference in small amount and in
 name of the some of the parties, reopening cannot be said to be
 invalid. He further submitted that when the assessment is reopened,
 the whole assessment is open before the assessing officer and he can
 make any further addition more adjustment to the income of the
 assessee. Hence, according to him there is no infirmity in
 disallowance of deduction u/s 80 IB (10) of the act. On the merits of
 addition of bogus purchase, he submitted that assessee has failed to
 Page | 17 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 produce the parties before the learned assessing officer and therefore
 the purchases are not proved to be genuine and hence addition u/s
 69C has correctly been made. He further submitted that assessee
 has claimed to file the return of income manually, which was not
 permitted at that particular time, the return of the assessee is
 treated as invalid. Therefore, is no valid return lies in the eyes of the
 law, the learned that AO has correctly held that assessee has not
 filed any return of income. For the purpose of claim of any deduction
 u/s 80 IB (10) of the act, assessee should have filed its return of
 income in time, which has not been filed, therefore the deduction u/s
 80 IB (10) of the act has been correctly denied to the assessee. He
 further stated that all the decisions cited by the learned authorised
 representative are distinguishable on facts and in none of the case,
 the facts are similar to that of the assessee. In all judicial
 precedents cited, assessee has filed its return of income. Therefore,
 there cannot be applied to the facts of the case. In view of this, he
 supported the orders of the lower authorities. 019. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the
 orders of the lower authorities. We have also perused the paper
 book containing 143 pages filed by the learned authorised
 representative as well as case law compilation where nine decisions
 have been cited. 020. Facts as available on record shows that the learned assessing officer
 has reopened the assessment by recording following reasons:- 021. On careful perusal of the above reasons recorded by the learned
 assessing officer, we find that as he could not find any return of
 income filed by the assessee in ITD system, there was no question of
 making further inquiries. It is an admitted fact that assessee has not
 filed any return of income electronically. It was mandatory at that
 time. Therefore, the learned assessing officer was of a reasonable
 belief that assessee has booked bogus purchases of ₹ 980,300/-
 during the year. As there was no information available about the
 details of the payment made by the assessee, recording of those
 transactions in the books of the assessee and any further information
 about the income of the assessee, no fault can be found in
 reopening of the assessment. 022. Merely some difference in mentioning of the amount, when the name
 of the party is mentioned correctly does not make the reopening of
 the assessment invalid. Further with respect to the claim of the
 Page | 19 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 assessee that whether the goods have been purchased from Maruti
 enterprises or Apex Corporation, the learned assessing officer has
 mentioned both the names. Therefore, it does not invalidate the
 reopening of the assessment. 023. The learned authorised representative has relied upon the decision of
 the honourable Delhi High Court in case of principal Commissioner of
 income tax versus G & G Pharma India Ltd 384 ITR 147 to submit
 that prior to forming of reason to believe that income has escaped
 assessment there has to be a proper application of mind by the
 assessing officer. According to the decision, the learned assessing
 officer should have applied his mind to the materials produced to
 conclude that he has reason to believe that income has escaped
 assessment. Carefully reading the facts of that case it is evident that
 the return of income in that particular case was assessed u/s 143 (3) of the income tax act 1961. Therefore, the learned assessing officer
 was having the original return of income as well as the material
 produced during the course of assessment proceedings before him.
 Further in that case the learned assessing officer has categorically
 stated before honourable high court that the material could not be
 located on basis of which the learned assessing officer has formed his
 opinion regarding reopening of the assessment. These facts are
 evident at Placitum 6 at page number 150 in first paragraph itself.
 Therefore, reliance on this decision does not help the case of the
 assessee. 024. Assessee further relied upon the decision of coordinate bench in case
 of Vaman international private limited versus DCIT in ITA number
 1040/M/2017 dated 27/9/2017, which has also been upheld by the
 honourable Bombay High Court in ITA number 1940 of 2017 dated
 29/1/2020. We have carefully perused the facts of that particular
 case wherein also the reasons recorded at paragraph number 9 at
 page number 15 clearly shows that assessee has filed its return of
 Page | 20 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 income which was processed u/s 143 (1) of the act. Therefore, the
 coordinate bench held that that mere reference to the material in
 reason to believe cannot be said to be a bona fide belief by the AO
 that income of the assessee has escaped assessment. However, in
 the present case in absence of any return of income available in ITD,
 ratio of that decision cannot be applied, as facts are distinguishable. 025. In view of above facts, we are of the view that the learned assessing
 officer had valid „reason to believe‟ that income of the assessee has
 escaped assessment when a specific information in the form of
 „tangible material‟ received from DGIT investigation that assessee
 has obtained only bills without material from different parties
 amounting to ₹ 980,300/-. Therefore, we confirm the order of the
 learned CIT - A in upholding the reopening of the assessment.
 Ground number 1 and 2 of the appeal of the assessee are dismissed. 026. Coming to ground number 5 where the addition of ₹ 980,300/- is
 made u/s 69C of the income tax act is challenged, we find that
 assessee has submitted as per letter dated 19/11/2015 before the
 learned assessing officer, detailed note on standard operating
 procedure in respect of purchases. Assessee is also stated that it is
 engaged in the business of real estate development. Assessee has
 also produced the invoices of purchase of goods from each of the
 parties, their ledger accounts from the books of accounts of the
 assessee, bank statement of assessee showing payment made to
 different parties, delivery challans and material receipt note of goods
 received from those parties. On verification of the delivery notes it is
 found that the material received has been certified by the project
 engineer, Chief engineer and quality checked by the assessee. In
 material receipt note, there is a reference of lorry number and the
 date of receipt of material. Therefore it is apparent that assessee
 has produced all the details available with it to show that the goods
 have been purchased from those parties, debt due to them is
 Page | 21 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 discharged by account payee cheques , material has been received
 by the assessee, mode of receipt of the material is also mentioned,
 quantity and quality of which has also been verified by engineers of
 the assessee. The learned assessing officer has made the addition
 only because of the reason that assessee has not produced the
 parties/suppliers. When assessee was asked to furnish the correct
 and current address of the suppliers for making necessary enquiries,
 assessee stated that they are not available on the addresses
 mentioned in the purchase bills and expressed its inability to produce
 the suppliers for verification. The learned assessing officer has also
 relied upon the statement recorded of the key persons of the said
 parties before the sales tax Department Mumbai wherein they have
 denied to have made any genuine sales to their customers. The
 learned AO thus, heavily relied on the confession in the statement
 recorded on oath before the sales tax authorities by those suppliers.
 The assessee has categorically stated that assessee has not been
 given any of the copies of such statement on which learned that AO
 relied upon i.e. statement of those persons before the sales tax
 Department. The learned CIT - A confirmed the addition that
 assessee did not possess vital third party evidences with respect to
 supply of goods. We find that the above finding of the learned CIT -
 A is devoid of any merit as assessee has produced adequate
 information about receipt of goods, which remains uncontroverted.
 It appears that 027. Identical issue arose before the honourable Bombay High Court in
 case of principal Commissioner of income tax versus Shapporjii
 Pallonji and Co Ltd (2020) 423 ITR 220 (Bom) wherein the
 information was received from sales tax Department, government of
 Maharashtra that two parties had not actually sold any material to
 the assessee. In response to the very of the learned assessing
 officer, copies of the bills and entries made in books of accounts
 relating to such purchases were produced. However, the learned
 Page | 22 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 assessing officer made the addition holding that there was no actual
 purchase of goods by the assessee. When the matter reached before
 the coordinate bench, the addition was deleted. When the matter
 reached before the honourable High Court, the order of the
 coordinate bench was confirmed. The honourable High Court in
 paragraph number 18 has held as Under:- 028. The question arises that as assessee has failed to furnish the correct
 and current interest of the suppliers for making necessary enquiries
 by the learned assessing officer, failure of the assessee to produce
 this parties could be fatal and deserves an addition or not. We find
 that the learned assessing officer has recorded the reasons for
 reopening of the assessment on the basis of specific information that
 5 different parties have provided bogus bills to the assessee, he has
 also the information that those parties have given their statement
 that they are non genuine suppliers, the information is also travelled
 to the DGIT investigation to the learned assessing officer, therefore,
 it is evident that assessing officer was having information about
 those parties such as their address and whereabouts. Therefore when
 the AO was having complete information about those parties and was
 so sure that those are the bogus parties and has merely provided the
 Page | 23 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 bills without supply of the material and also having information about
 making a statement before a government authority, not providing
 the correct address by the assessee, assessee was not having the
 same, is not fatal to the issue. The learned assessing officer himself
 made any enquiry with those parties further with respect to
 genuineness of purchase of material by the assessee. 029. As the learned assessing officer was having the complete details
 about these suppliers, he should have made some enquiry with the
 suppliers about mentioning of the lorry receipts etc. in the invoices.
 The learned assessing officer has not carried out any independent
 enquiry. The assessee has so far produced all possible available
 details with respect to receipt of material. Undoubtedly, no
 confirmation is available with the assessee of the five parties, but the
 signature on the bills wherein the complete material is available and
 receipt of payment by cheque itself shows are third-party
 confirmation of the transaction at least with respect to purchase of
 these goods. As far as the records maintained by the godown
 keeper, the Chief engineer and site engineer of the assessee has
 certified receipt of goods. Further we find that in paragraph number
 43 of the order of the learned CIT - A where he has mentioned nine
 different evidences for which the addition is made by the learned
 assessing officer, we find that the learned assessing officer is not at
 all referred to failure of the assessee in producing any of these nine
 evidences. The only allegation of the assessing officer is that
 assessee has failed to show receipt of goods as well as failed to
 produce those parties. Furthermore, looking to the nature of the
 business, assessee cannot be asked to produce more details then
 what is generally kept by an assessee in that line of the business. 030. Identical issue also arose in case of ACIT versus Mahesh K Shah ITA number 5194/M/2014 dated 31/1/2017 wherein even the addresses
 were given and 133 (6) inquiries were made by the learned assessing
 Page | 24 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

 officer which remained unresponded, the coordinate bench has
 deleted addition of unaccounted purchases holding that the AO
 cannot make the addition u/s 69C of the act by merely relying on
 information obtained from the sales tax Department, the statements,
 affidavits of third parties without the assessee being afforded any
 opportunity of cross-examination of those persons for non-response
 to information called for u/s 133 (6) of the act. It is also an admitted
 fact that the learned assessing officer has not confronted assessee
 with statements of those parties/suppliers made before the sense tax
 authorities. 031. In view of these facts, the addition made by the learned assessing
 officer and confirmed by the learned CIT - A cannot be upheld.
 Accordingly, ground number 5 of the appeal is allowed and the
 learned assessing officer is directed to delete the addition of ₹
 980,300/- made u/s 69C of the act with respect to purchases from
 five different parties. 032. Now it is apparent that only issue in the reasons for reopening of the
 assessment was with respect to alleged bogus purchases of ₹
 980,300/-, This addition has been deleted by us for the reasons
 given hereinabove, whether any other disallowance, which was not
 part of the reasons for reopening of the assessment, can be made by
 the learned assessing officer or not. The issue also arises that the
 addition for which the assessment was reopened has been made by
 the learned assessing officer, confirmed by the learned CIT - A and
 deleted by the tribunal, even then such other additions/disallowances
 which were not part of reasons of the reopening of the assessment,
 can be upheld or not. 033. This issue has been decided by the coordinate bench in case of
 Prabhakar Damodar Gawade V ITO (200 TTJ 1017) dated
 9/05/2019. The coordinate bench in that case followed the decision
 Page | 25 ITA No. 482/Mum/2018 Sureaksha DB Realty; AY 11-12

of the honourable Bombay High Court in case of CIT versus Jet
Airways Ltd ( 2011) 331 ITR 236 (Bom) and CIT versus Cheil communications India private limited (2013) 354 ITR 549 (del). In
that particular case the learned assessing officer initiated
reassessment proceedings with respect to an escapement of income
of Rs 4 lakhs. In the assessment the addition of ₹ 4 lakhs were paid
and also apart from that another addition was made to the extent of
15% amounting to ₹ 81,405/- the additions were confirmed by the
learned CIT - A. The coordinate bench deleted the addition of ₹ 4
lakhs. When the issue of disallowance of ₹ 81,405/- arose before
the coordinate bench it held that that the only addition made by the
learned AO out of the recorded reasons stands deleted i.e. ₹ 4 lakhs.
Therefore the addition of ₹ 81,405/- was not at all part of the
reasons recorded by the learned assessing officer, cannot be
sustained for the reason that since, the sole addition made by the AO
on the foundation of the recorded reasons has not passed the judicial
scrutiny by the tribunal, therefore, there can be no question of
making any other addition to the income. Accordingly, without
considering the merits of disallowance of ₹ 81,405/- the coordinate
bench held that the other addition, which was not part of the reasons
of reopening, could not be sustained. The coordinate bench held as
Under:- 034. In view of the fact that the reasons recorded for reopening of the
 assessment with respect to disallowance/addition u/s 69C of the act
 of ₹ 980,300/- has already been deleted no other disallowance,
 which are not part of the reasons recorded by the learned assessing
 officer, has any legs to stand, but fails. Therefore, without going into
 the merits of the disallowance u/s 80 IB of the act vis-à-vis filing of
 the return by the assessee u/s 139 (1) of the act the deduction
 claimed by the assessee u/s 80 IB (10) cannot be disallowed. 035. Even otherwise, the fact shows that assessee has consistently been
 allowed deduction u/s 80 IB (10) in earlier assessment years as well
 as subsequent assessment years. For peculiar reasons, assessee
 could not file electronic return of income but has filed manual return
 of income within time allowed u/s 139 (1) of the act. 036. Therefore respectfully following the decision of the coordinate bench,
 we hold that the disallowance of deduction u/s 80 IB (10) of the act
 made by the learned assessing officer and confirmed by the learned
 CIT - A is not sustainable in law. Accordingly, ground number 3 and
 4 of the appeal are allowed. 037. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 08.09.2022.