1. In continuation of the previous orders, including dated

16.12.2025, Mr. R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General for

India, has placed on record a compilation containing a status

report on behalf of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Union of India,

along with documents (Annexures R/1 to R/5). Annexure R/1 is a

copy of the minutes of the second meeting of Inter Departmental

Committee (IDC) held on 02.02.2026; Annexure R/2 is a copy of the

detailed inputs in respect of the submissions of the Department of

Telecommunications (DoT); Annexure R/3 is a copy of the detailed

inputs and supporting material in respect of the submissions of the

Reserve Bank of India (RBI); Annexure R/4 is a copy of the inputs

shared by Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology

(MeitY) in the form of status report; and, Annexure R/5 is a copy 6 of the SOP for NCRP-CFCFRMS, custody and restoration of money and

grievance redressal. 2. It is explained that an Inter-Departmental Committee has been

constituted. The CBI has identified a threshold of losses of Rs.10

crores or more for the investigation of Digital Arrest Cases.

Three such cases have been identified in Gujarat and Delhi, and the

State Governments have accordingly been asked to accord permission.

We direct the State of Gujarat and the NCT of Delhi to accord the

necessary permission within one week. 3. It is pointed out that the banks are using their own AI/ML

tools for Fraud Risk Management. About 26 out of 53 banks are

stated to have also adopted Mule Hunter AI. Most importantly, the

RBI and Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre, Ministry of Home

Affairs, are in the process of finalising an MoU for sharing

suspect registry data to enrich mule account detection tools. We

would appreciate if the draft MoU is finalised within four weeks or

so. 4. Similarly, the RBI has drafted a Standard Operating Procedure

(SOP) prescribing actions by banks for placing temporary debit

holds on amounts/accounts, to prevent money-mule activities and

cyber-enabled fraud. The SOP for NCRP-CFCFRMS, custody and

restoration of money and grievance redressal has also been approved

on 02.01.2026. We, accordingly, direct the Ministry of Home Affairs

to formally adopt and implement the above-stated SOP dated

02.01.2026 and the same be issued across the country for adopting

by all the participating entities a uniform process to strengthen

inter-agency coordination, ensure the timely restoration of 7 defrauded funds wherever possible, and enhance public confidence in

reporting cyber financial frauds through the NCRP and the 1930

helpline including the adjudicating authorities. 5. All the High Courts are directed to ensure that the

adjudicating authorities within their respective jurisdiction are

in compliance with the above-mentioned SOP. 6. It is also pointed out by the learned Attorney General that

the Department of Telecommunications has drafted the

Telecommunications (User Identification) Rules, 2025, as well as

Draft Telecommunications (Radio Equipment Possession Authorisation)

Rules. The comments from stakeholders/the general public have been

invited. These rules are being formulated to prevent (i) biometric

e-KYC and the issuance of a number of sim cards in one box. Let

these rules be notified within three weeks. 7. The DoT has also implemented the Centralised International Out

Roamer (CIOR) in October 2024 for addressing the issue of spoofed

international calls, which helps identify calls made by genuine

international roaming subscribers. Let these rules also be notified

within three weeks. 8. The MeitY is directed to develop and finalise a portal for

reporting the complaints under Section 43 of the Information

Technology Act, 2000. Let the needful be done within four weeks. 9. So far as the future course of action is concerned, we direct

the CBI to expedite registration of the identified Digital Arrest

Cases for investigation. The RBI is directed to examine the

recommendations of the delayed transactions at the end of the

issuing bank and take an appropriate decision in this regard. The 8 MeitY is further directed to follow up with intermediaries for

time-bound compliance, for which necessary meetings with the

concerned agencies may be held. Similarly, we direct the RBI,

Ministry of Home Affairs and Department of Revenue to consider the

desirability of suspending the suspicious transactions and

facilitation of reporting of cases under Section 12AA of the PMLA

Act. Such a recourse, however, will be adopted by following the

prescribed procedure in accordance with the law. The RBI, DoT and

MeitY, along with the Department of Legal Affairs and the Ministry

of Consumer Affairs, may also jointly hold a meeting to evolve some

framework for victim compensation in Digital Arrest Cases. It will

be appreciated if a pragmatic and liberal approach is adopted in

this regard. 10. Let a fresh status report in respect to the above directions

be furnished. 11. Post the matter on 16.03.2026.