{11th April, 2014}

Per A.M. Khanwilkar, Chief Justice: 02. Each of these petitions, essentially, challenge the decision of the

Board vide orders dated 9th October, 2013 and 6th December, 2013

respectively. By the said orders, the Board cancelled the entrance

examination results of 415 candidates of Dental and Medical Admission

Test (hereafter referred to as the 'entrance test' for the sake of brevity) in

two lots of 345 and 70 candidates vide order dated 9th October, 2013 and 6th

December, 2013 respectively, for the reasons recorded in the said orders. 03. As a consequence, the admissions granted to the concerned

candidates in the Medical Colleges on the basis of the said examination

results, which stood annulled, came to be cancelled by the respective

Medical Colleges. As a result, even these consequential orders are subject

matter of challenge. We may mention that in some of the writ petitions, the

reliefs claimed are loosely worded. In the interest of justice, however, we 11 hold that the intention of each of the petitioners is not only to challenge the

action and decision of the Board, but, also the consequential order passed by

the concerned Medical College cancelling their admission to medical

course. 04. The background in which the impugned orders were passed by

the Board can be briefly stated as under:- Thereafter, an advertisement was issued in newspapers having wide

circulation on 22nd May, 2013. The Online Forms were invited between 22nd

May, 2013 to 21st June, 2013 and the date of examination was scheduled on

7th July, 2013. The Board then appointed Coordinating Centers in 14 cities

on 27th May, 2013. Other logistical arrangements were made by the Board

for conduct of free and fair entrance examination for admission to

professional courses. The candidates were to be allocated roll numbers and

examination centers on 30th June, 2013. As per the Activity Chart, finalized

by the Chairman of the Board, the Test Admit Cards, which were to be

generated contemporaneously with computerised allocation of roll numbers

and examination centers to the students and uploaded on 30th June, 2013

itself. However, that was done on 3rd July, 2013 by the concerned officials 12 of the Board. (ii) The complaint regarding gross irregularities and unfair means in

the conduct of examination was received by the Director General of Police

on 6th July, 2013. Acting upon the said complaint and the reports appearing

in the local newspapers about the conspiracy hatched for resorting to unfair

means by large number of the candidates with the assistance of candidates

coming from other States, the Indore Crime Branch moved into action and

arrested about 20 suspects. However, the Board continued with the process

of conducting entrance examinations on 7th July, 2013. On the same day,

FIR was registered at Police Station, Rajendra Nagar, Indore, bearing Crime

No.539/2013 mentioning about the involvement of large number of

candidates having indulged in unfair means during the entrance

examination. After registration of the FIR, the Crime Branch made inquiries

with the officials of the Board and sought certain information. A written

communication in that behalf was also received by the officials of the Board

dated 8th July, 2013 from the Crime Branch. The information, as sought by

the Crime Branch, was provided by the officials of the Board on 12th July,

2013. (iii) Notwithstanding these developments, the Board proceeded to

declare result on 13th July, 2013. Two officials of the Board, namely, Nitin

Mohindra, Principal System Analyst and Ajay Kumar Sen were interrogated

by the Investigating Team of police. The said officials of the Board were

formally arrested on 16th July, 2013. As a result of their arrest, the Board 13 suspended these officers on 17th July, 2013. Following the arrest of the

abovesaid two officers, during investigation, the complicity of one C.K.

Mishra, Assistant Programmer of the Board was also unravelled. He was

arrested on 18th July, 2013. Consequent to his arrest, the Board suspended

the said official on 19th July, 2013. (iv) The Board received a list of 317 candidates, from the

Superintendent of Police, Indore dated 20th July, 2013, who were named as

beneficiaries of the conspiracy. It came to light that one Jagdish Sagar was

party to the conspiracy. (v) The list of 317 suspected candidates was also given to the

Director of Medical Education, Government of Madhya Pradesh on 20th

July, 2013. The Board made over the entrance examination result to the

Director of Medical Education, Government of Madhya Pradesh, on 24th

July, 2013, for counselling before admission of the concerned candidate. (vi) A communication dated 13th August, 2013 was received by the

Board from the Crime Branch regarding roll number allotment Logic

Formula. Another communication dated 17th August, 2013 was received for

the same information. (vii) As regards the criminal case, considering the gravity and

seriousness of the offence and involvement of resourceful persons in the

commission of crime, the State Government entrusted the investigation of

the said case to the Special Task Force (STF) on 26th August, 2013. (viii) The Board vide letter dated 27th August, 2013 furnished 14 information to the Crime Branch in response to its letter dated 17th August,

2013. Besides providing that information, the Director of the Board

realizing the seriousness of the situation, which came to his knowledge,

moved into action and, thus, submitted proposal to the Chairman on 30th

August, 2013 to permit constitution of Computer Experts Committee to

examine the records and submit its opinion and recommendation. The

Chairman accorded approval to the said proposal on 5th September, 2013.

The Director then submitted proposal to the Chairman for nominating

experts on the Computer Experts Committee on 5th September, 2013. That

note was approved by the Chairman on 6th September, 2013. As a result of

which, the Computer Experts Committee - of six experts - was constituted.

The said Committee convened its first meeting on 7th September, 2013 and

after due inquiry formed opinion which was reduced into writing. The same

reads thus:- (emphasis supplied) (ix) In the meantime, the Director called upon Nitin Mohindra and

Ajay Kumar Sen who were in District Jail, Indore, by written

communication dated 31st August, 2013, to furnish the logic of allotment of

roll numbers for facilitating scrutiny by the Computer Experts Committee.

The said officials, however, by written communication dated 3rd September,

2013 expressed their inability to disclose the logic in allocation of roll

numbers to the candidates. In absence of information divulged by the

officials under suspension and in jail, the Computer Experts Committee had

to evolve their own mechanism to find out the methodology that must have

been adopted in allocation of roll numbers to concerned candidates - by

method other than stipulated or specified of randomisation process. The 17 Committee thus submitted its report in that behalf on 7th September, 2013,

which has been extracted in the preceding paragraph. The Computer Experts

Committee thus in the initial scrutiny, found mismatch of 30195 out of

40086 candidates in the allocation of roll numbers, including of allocation of

roll numbers to 49 rejected candidates. (x) The Board then received communication dated 9th September,

2013 from STF demanding information on various aspects such as Roll

Numbers, Application Form etc. The Board also received communication

from STF dated 18th September, 2013 to supply Test Admit Cards and online

forms issued to 369 students; to furnish two coloured true copies of the Test

Admit Card and online form in hard as well as soft format. On 21st

September, 2013, the Board supplied list of mismatch of 30195 candidates

identified by the Computer Experts Committee. The STF then, vide letter

dated 27th September, 2013, posed certain queries to the Board in connection

with the list of roll numbers and mismatch. In response, the Board vide

letter dated 27th September, 2013 informed that the mismatch is limited to

876 candidates. (xi) On the same day, i.e. 27th September, 2013, Dr. Pankaj Trivedi,

Controller/ Director of the Board was arrested by the Investigating Agency. (xii) The Computer Experts Committee convened its emergent

meeting on 30th September, 2013, for consideration of the matter in the light

of new information. This meeting was attended by five members of the

Committee. The sixth member being outstation member, could not attend 18 that meeting. After due deliberations, the Committee recorded its opinion in

the form of Minutes, which reads thus: (emphasis supplied) (xiii) After the second report of the Computer Experts Committee was

made available, the Director of the Board submitted proposal to the

Chairman to constitute Committee of Controllers to submit its report for

necessary action. The said proposal was approved by the Chairman. As a

result of which, the Committee of Joint Controllers of following persons

was constituted: (emphasis supplied) (xv) The Acting Controller, Dr. Sanjay Kumar Jain, in his noting

made in the note-sheet dated 7th October, 2013 referred to the information

sought from STF. After exchange of inter departmental office notes, the

Committee of Joint Controllers was again convened on 8th October, 2013,

which concluded with the following opinion:- (emphasis supplied)

(xvi) The report prepared by the Committee on the basis of which the

conclusion noted in the above quoted Minutes evinces the yardstick adopted

by the Committee in identifying 345 candidates against whom immediate

action was warranted. The said evaluation report reads thus: (emphasis supplied) 28 (xvii) These reports and opinion were placed before the Chairman of

the Board with recommendation to initiate action against 345 identified

candidates. The Chairperson concurred with the said proposal submitted by

the Director and issued directions to proceed in the matter accordingly. This

noting was made on 8th October, 2013, as can be discerned from the Office

File, which reads thus: (emphasis supplied)

(xviii) As a consequence of directions issued by the Chairman, the

Director processed the matter further and finally issued the impugned order

dated 9th October, 2013 cancelling the entrance examination results of 345

identified candidates and held them ineligible for having indulged in unfair

practices. The impugned order dated 9th October, 2013 reads thus: O;kie@6297@2013 fnukad 09-10-2013 }kjk fujLr dh tk pqdh gS
,oa ik;k x;k gS fd 92 vH;fFkZ;ksa esa ls 22 vH;FkhZ (ifjf'k"V&18) ,sls
gS ftudh vH;fFkZrk iwoZ esa gh fujLr dh tk pqdh gSA

21- 92 vH;fFkZ;ksa dh lwph esa ls 'ks"k 70 vH;FkhZ (ifjf'k"V&19) ,sls
ik;s x;s gS tks fd iwoZ esa vH;fFkZrk fujLr fd;s x;s 345 vH;fFkZ;ksa dh
lwph esa miyC/k ugha gSA mijksDr rF;ksa ij lfefr }kjk ijh{k.k]
fo'ys"k.k],oa lexz fopkj mijkar ik;k x;k fd ,l-Vh-,Q- Hkksiky }kjk
e.My dks orZeku esa miyC/k djokbZ xbZ 92 vH;fFkZ;ksa dh lwph ,oa
rduhdh fo'ks"kK lfefr }kjk miyC/k djokbZ xbZ] vuq'kalkvksa vuqlkj
70 vH;FkhZ ,sls gS tks fd nksuksa lwfp;ksa esa miyC/k gS rFkk budh
vH;fFkZrk iwoZ esa fujLr ugha dh gSA blls ;g Li"V gksrk gS fd ;g
vH;FkhZ jksy uacj ifjofrZr djokus laca/kh "kM;a= esa 'kkfey gS] buds
}kjk bl izdj.k ds vkjksfi;ksa ls laidZ fd;k x;k gS rFkk vH;fFkZ;ksa ds
jksy uacj tujs'ku mijkar ifjofrZr fd;s x;s gSA bl izdkj 70
vfrfjDr vH;fFkZ;ksa dks vuqfpr ykHk igqapk;s tkus dh iqf"V orZeku esa
miyC/k nLrkostksa ls gksrh gSA
22- lfefr }kjk jksy uacj ifjofrZr djokus laca/kh "kM;a= esa 'kkfey
gksus] vkjksfi;ksa ls laidZ djus rFkk jksy uacj tujs'ku mijkar ifjofrZr
fd;s tkus ds dkj.k e- iz- O;kolkf;d ijh{kk e.My }kjk ih-,e-Vh-
ijh{kk 2013 ds vk;kstu dh fu;e iqfLrdk ds fu;eksa (ifjf'k"V&15)
dk mYya?ku 70 vH;fFkZ;ksa }kjk gksuk ik;k x;k gSA (i) v/;k;&4] funsZ'k ,oa ijh{kk lapkyu fu;e ds] *egRoiw.kZ*
fn'kk&funsZ'k vuqlkj %&
 **vkWuykbZu vkosnu i= esa Hkjh xbZ tkudkjh dk lR;kiu
 dkmalfyax@izos'k ds le; ewy nLrkostksa ds vk/kkj ij
 lacaf/kr foHkkx@laLFkk }kjk fd;k tk;sxkA vr% ckn esa
 ;g irk pyrk gS fd lQy vkosnd }kjk vkWuykbZu
 vkosnu i= Hkjrs le; xyr vFkok vlR; tkudkjh
 vFkok fdlh tkudkjh dk Nqik;k gS] ,slh fLFkfr esa ;fn
 ;g ik;k x;k fd dksbZ mEehnokj >wBh@xyr tkudkjh
 nsdj ;k lqlaxr rF;ksa dks Nqik dj izos'k ikus esa lQy
 gks x;k gS ;k izos'k ds i'pkr fdlh Hkh le; ;g ik;k
 x;k fd vkosnd dks fdlh xyrh ;k pwdo'k izos'k fey 37 x;k gS] rks vkosnd dks fn;k x;k izos'k laLFkk
 izeq[k@izos'k izkf/kdj.k@e/;izns'k O;kolkf;d ijh{kk
 e.My }kjk mlds v/;;u dky ds nkSjku rqjar fcuk
 fdlh lwpuk ds jn~n fd;k tk ldsxkA** (ii) blh izdkj fcUnq dz- 4-12 **vuqfpr lk/ku** vuqlkj %& (d) ijh{kk d{k esa vU; ijh{kkFkhZ ls fdlh Hkh izdkj dk lEidZA
 ([k) vius LFkku ij fdlh vU; O;fDr ls ijh{kk fnykuk ;k ijh{kkFkhZ
 ds LFkku ij vU; dksbZ O;fDr mifLFkr gksukA (x) ijh{kk d{k esa vius ikl fdlh Hkh izdkj dh izfrcaf/kr lkexzh
 j[kukA
 (?k) ijh{kk ds nkSjku fpYykuk] cksyuk] dkukQwlh djuk] bZ'kkjs djuk
 o vU; izdkj ls lEidZ lk/kukA
 (M-) vU; ijh{kkFkhZ dh mRrj'khV ;k iz'u iqfLrdk ls vU; fdlh
 izdkj ls udy djukA (p) vU; ijh{kkFkhZ ds lkFk mRrj'khV ;k iz'u iqfLrdk dh
 vnyk&cnyh djukA
 (N) izfrcaf/kr lkexzh ik;s tkus ij ijh{kkFkhZ }kjk mls lkSaius ls
 badkj djuk ;k mls Lo;a u"V djukA (t) udy izdj.k ls lacaf/kr nLrkostksa@izi=ksa ij gLrk{kj djus ls
 euk djukA
 (>) le{k vf/kdkjh ds funsZ'kksa dh vogsyuk@voKk djuk ;k muds
 funsZ'kksa dk ikyu u djukA
 (´) l{ke vf/kdkjh ds funsZ'kkuqlkj mRrj'khV ;k vU; nLrkost
 okil ugha djuk ;k okil djus ls euk djukA
 (V) ijh{kk dk;Z esa yxs deZpkfj;ksa@vf/kdkfj;ksa dks ijs'kku djuk]
 /kedkuk ;k 'kkjhfjd pksV igqapkukA" (emphasis supplied)

(xxii) After receipt of this report, the Director placed the matter before

the Chairman with recommendation to take action against 70 additional 38 candidates identified by the Joint Controllers Committee. The Chairman

approved the said proposal and issued directions to initiate action against the

said 70 candidates. As a result, the Director processed the matter further

and finally issued the order on 06th December, 2013, which reads thus: (emphasis supplied)

(xxiii) Indeed, this decision has still not been placed before the

Executive Committee as it is stated that no meeting of the Executive

Committee could be convened since then. It is, however, stated across the

Bar by the counsel for the Board that as and when the next Executive

Committee meeting will be convened, the proposal and the said matter will 40 be placed for consideration of the Executive Committee and for ratification.

(xxiv) The Joint Controller (Exam.) moved a proposal on 28th

December, 2013 to blacklist the examination centers where the unfair means

were resorted to by the candidates and presumably in connivance with the

officials thereat. After processing the said proposal, the Controller (Exam)

issued order on 1st February, 2014 to blacklist the named examination

centers. The said order reads thus: 05. Suffice it to note that on the basis of the above said orders dated 41 9th October, 2013 and 6th December, 2013, the colleges in which the

concerned candidates had taken admissions on the basis of entrance

examination results declared on 13th July, 2013 came to be cancelled. As

aforesaid, all these petitions essentially not only challenge the orders passed

by the Board, but, also the action of the concerned college in cancelling

their admissions. 06. (i) Let us now turn to the grounds of challenge as canvassed

by the respective counsel for the petitioners. Mr. Amitabh Gupta, learned

counsel appearing in W.P. Nos. 20908/2013 & 21518/2013 argued that the

impugned decision taken by the Director to cancel the examination results is

without authority of law. The Board alone could have taken such a drastic

decision. Further, the ex post facto ratification of such a decision is

impermissible. The impugned order is based on the report of committees

whose constitution is not in consonance with the provisions of the Madhya

Pradesh Vyavsayik Pariksha Mandal Adhiniyam, 2007 (I) [hereinafter

referred to as "the Act of 2007 (I)]". The Board could not have entrusted the

inquiry to any Committee. It is then submitted that, at any rate, after the

declaration of results by the Board on 13th July, 2013, it had become functus

officio. In that, the Board could not have enquired into the issue of

eligibility of the students who have already been declared as passed in the

subject examination. That Authority vests in the Board only when the

examination process is on going and not after the declaration of the results.

To buttress this submission, reliance has been placed on the provisions of 42 the Act of 2007 (I) and terms specified in the Brochure issued by the Board

in relation to the examination in question. It is then contended that the

irregularities referred to in the impugned orders of the Board are purely

founded on the report of STF and not the opinion of the Experts Committee

appointed under the orders of the Chairman. Further, the opinion of the

Experts Committee was false and concocted on the basis of communication

received from STF dated 27.9.2013. Before the Experts Committee could

meet and form its opinion the Board wrote to STF about involvement of

only 876 candidates vide letter dated 27.9.2013. That figure corresponds

with the figure mentioned in the charge-sheet. At any rate, the opinion of the

Experts Committee was entirely different and limited to the acts of

commission and omission of swapping of roll numbers. It is then contended

that the Board has acted as per the dictation of the STF for taking action

against 345 students by one fiat, vide order dated 9th October, 2013. The

constitution of the Committee and including the Computer Experts

Committee was only a farce of inquiry. It is also contended that from the

notings made in the file, which were made available to the petitioners under

the Right to Information Act , it leads to an inevitable conclusion that the

impugned decision taken by the Board is vitiated. Notably, the Minutes of

the Executive Committee dated 19.11.2013 are not even signed. It

necessarily follows that there is no ratification by the Executive Committee.

He further contends that the opinion of the Committee as well as the

decision of the Board proceeds on suspicion deduced from circumstances 43 and not actual fact of candidate having indulged in unfair means. No such

conclusion could be reached keeping in mind the Law relating to

circumstantial evidence. It is then contended that the impugned decision is

on the face of it in violation of the principles of natural justice. In that, no

opportunity whatsoever was given to any student, whose examination results

came to be cancelled vide impugned decision dated 9th October, 2013. It is

also submitted that out of total 415 candidates against whom action has been

taken; only 115 candidates had taken admission in the concerned Medical

Colleges and out of them, only 65 candidates have approached this Court by

way of writ petitions. Rest of the candidates have reconciled with the

impugned order passed by the Board for the reasons best known to them. (ii) In anticipation of the argument to be canvassed on behalf of the

Board, Shri Amitabh Gupta submitted that post decisional hearing to be

given to the affected candidates, in the fact situation of the present case, will

be impermissible. In other words, the impugned order will have to be set

aside as a whole and not conditionally. (iii) To buttress the above submissions, Shri Gupta has relied on the

following Supreme Court decisions in the case of The Punjab University,

Chandigarh Vs. Vijay Singh Lamba and others1 ( Para 7), Rashmi

Metaliks Limited and another Vs. Kolkata Metropolitan Development

Authority and others2 (Para 10), State of M.P. and others Vs. Hukum

1 (1976) 3 SCC 344
2 (2013) 10 SCC 95 44 Chand Mills Karmchari3, State of Andhra Pradesh and another Vs. Dr.

Mohanjit Singh and another4, Shekhar Ghosh Vs. Union of India and

another5, and M/s Bishamber Dayal Chandra Mohan etc. etc. v. State of

U.P. and others etc. etc.6 (para 27). 07. Shri Sanjay K. Agrawal, learned counsel appearing in W.P.

No.21297/2013 argued that the academic record of the petitioner has been

exemplary from school level. It is unfathomable that student with such

academic record would indulge in unfair means by engaging scorer. He

further submitted that even on a fair and close reading of the report of the

Computer Experts Committee, it is not possible to decipher as to what logic

was applied by the Committee to reach at the conclusion as recorded in its

report dated 7.7.2013. Further, there is nothing to indicate that all the

members were present in the meeting. Rather, the said meeting was hastened

in absence of the outstation member. He submits that to do substantial

justice to the students, the Board ought to have and therefore, be directed to

conduct fresh examination of all students, at least for 415 candidates against

whom action has been taken by the Board. He submitted that Clause 4.6 of

the Brochure permits the candidate to opt for change of roll number within

five days. Thus understood, it is preposterous to proceed against the

candidates on the allegation of swapping of roll numbers. He further

submitted that there is no legal evidence to even remotely suggest that the

roll number of petitioner for whom he was appearing has ever been changed

3 1996 (7) SCC 81
4 1988 (Supp.) SCC 562
5 2007 (1) SCC 331
6 AIR 1982 SC 33 45 after it was generated. 08. Ms. Durgesh Thapa, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioners in Writ Petition Nos.21562/2013 & 21566/2013 submits that the

petitioners were not involved in copying, cheating or impersonation. No

such contemporaneous report was submitted by any invigilator. On the other

hand, the petitioners were allowed to participate during the counselling

which was prelude to granting admission to the concerned petitioners. She

submits that nine candidates against whom action has been taken vide

impugned decisions are on death bed and one student has died. All this has

happened because of the high handed action of the STF. She submits that the

petitioners for whom she is appearing, have already been admitted to

medical course. Therefore, the impugned decision of the Board should be

set aside and their admission be kept intact. She submits that the Board

could have been constituted only with the approval of the Medical Council

of India. Further, the examination results were required to be submitted to

Council under the control of Central Government. That has not been done.

She has relied on the decision in the case of Rama Shankar Singh and

others vs. the Principal, Darbhanga Medical College and others,7 to

buttress the above submissions. Learned counsel also adopted the arguments

of the previous Advocates and relied on the decision of the Supreme Court

in the case of Ravindra Kumar Rai vs. State of Maharashtra and

others8, Medical Council of India vs. State of Karnataka9, State of

7 AIR 1969 Patna 11
8 AIR 1998 SC 1227 46 Kerala vs. Kumari T.P. Roshana and another10, and Mriduldhar

(Minor) and another Vs. Union of India and others11. 09. Shri Aditya Sanghi, learned counsel appearing in four writ

petitions (W.P. Nos.20050/2013, 21506/2013, 21534/2013 & 203/2014)

broadly adopted the submissions made by Shri Gupta in the leading writ

petition. In addition, he submits that from the reply affidavit filed by the

Board, the allegation against the petitioners for whom he is appearing was

that they employed scorers for improving their examination performance;

and secondly, being involved in interpolation of roll numbers. According to

him, each of the petitioners for whom he is appearing had scored distinction

in the previous examinations including in entrance test examination

conducted in the year 2012. It is, therefore, unfathomable that such a student

would engage in employing scorer. According to him, the impugned

decisions are founded on mere suspicion against the concerned candidates.

There is no legal evidence to substantiate their involvement in the alleged

unfair means. The petitioners for whom he is appearing are meritorious

candidates and should not be made to suffer for the wrong committed by

some one else. He also submitted the petitioners for whom he is appearing

are released on bail by the criminal court. According to him, the entire

action is vitiated being in breach of principles of natural justice. He

submitted that it is not open to the Board to argue that no useful purpose

would be served by giving opportunity to the affected candidates. To

9 AIR 1998 SC 2423
10 1979 (1) SCC 572
11 (2005) AIR SCW 471 = (2005) 2 SCC 65 47 buttress the above submissions, he has relied on the decision of the Supreme

Court in the case of Olga Tellis and others Vs. Bombay Municipal

Corporation and others12 and Priya Gupta Vs. State of Chhattisgarh and others13 (paragraphs 48 to 50) and quotation from the Principles of

Administrative Law by Justice G.P. Singh, 5th Edition Page 274 to 275. He

submitted that the petitioners be allowed to continue with the course for

which they were already admitted. Their admissions could at best be made

subject to the outcome of the criminal case pending against them, to do

substantial justice. 10. Shri D.C. Gupta, learned counsel appearing in four writ petitions

(W.P. Nos. 21505/2013, 21514/2013, 21533/2013 and 21536/2013) besides

adopting the arguments of Shri Aditya Sanghi, additionally contended that

each of the petitioners for whom he is appearing were meritorious

candidates and have excellent academic records. Because of the impugned

action taken by the Board, the candidates were shell shocked and even

attempted to commit suicide. Further, in the charge-sheet filed against the

petitioners for whom he is appearing, the allegations are that they indulged

in copying from the students sitting on the front seat. There is no other

allegation against them. Moreover, no legal evidence was placed before the

Experts Committee or the Director/Chairman of the Board suggestive of

petitioner, in any manner, being responsible for swapping of the roll

numbers. He submitted that it is relevant to note that twenty petitioners

12 AIR 1986 SC 180
13 (2012) 7 SCC 433 48 scored less marks than the scorers. Moreover, two scorers were absent. This

goes to show that the genuine candidates have been erroneously found

having indulged in unfair means. He submits that the petitioners for whom

he was appearing had participated in the other pre-entrance professional

courses examination and secured 89 percent. He vehemently submitted that

the impugned decision of the Board in cancelling the examination process of

the petitioners be set aside and the admission given to the concerned

petitioners in professional course be kept in tact. 11. Shri Manoj Kumar Sharma, learned counsel appearing in five

writ petitions (W.P. Nos. 1067/2014, 1069/2014, 1842/2014, 1843/2014 and

1929/2014), in addition, argued that the petitioners finally took admission

against payment seats in private Medical College. In that case, cancellation

of entrance examination results by the Board cannot obliterate the right

accrued to those petitioners consequent to admission against payment seats

in a private College. Moreover, the students sitting in front and behind the

petitioners in the same examination did not even qualify. In that eventuality,

the logic that the petitioners engaged in unfair means is faulty and no

reasonable man would come to that conclusion. He further submitted that no

opportunity was given to the petitioners before cancellation of examination

results and as a consequence of which admission has also been cancelled

resulting in civil consequences. He has reiterated the arguments canvassed

by earlier Advocates that the only basis on which the Board has proceeded is

the information received from the STF and no independent inquiry has been 49 conducted. 12. Shri Manikant Sharma, learned counsel appearing in four

matters (W.P. Nos. 21827/2013, 21828/2013, 21830/2013 and 21831/2013)

submitted that in three matters, the facts are identical. Each of the petitioners

obtained marks below cut off marks. They were not admitted in Government

Colleges. Thus, no benefit accrued to the said petitioners from the entrance

examination conducted by the Board. Moreover, the petitioner in Writ

Petition No.21827/2013 had cleared the National Examination. Each

petitioner was meritorious student with excellent academic record. They

have secured distinction. Hence, it is unfathomable that such student would

employ scorer for improving his performance in the examination. He further

submitted that the Board has not mentioned separate grounds qua the

respective candidates. A blanket order has been passed applying the same

brush to all the candidates without specifically indicating the acts of

commission and omission of respective candidates whose examination

results have been cancelled. He submits that identical ground for

cancellation of entrance examination results of such large number of

candidates cannot be countenanced and more so when there is neither legal

evidence nor any contemporaneous report of Supervisor or Invigilator

suggestive of involvement of the concerned candidate in the commission of

unfair means. It is argued that act of copying is an overt act. It is not covert

act. In absence of complaint from any examination center about copying, no

action could be taken by the Board. He then argued that although the STF 50 list contains names of 92 candidates, vide impugned order dated 6th

December, 2013, action is taken only against 70 candidates. The Board has

resorted to pick and choose and has selectively proceeded against only some

of the candidates. No explanation is forthcoming as to why 22 candidates

from the STF list were left out. He further argued that the petitioners had

submitted on-line applications and had received roll number as well as

admit card. The allocation of that roll number remained unchanged. The

petitioners did not apply for cancellation of roll numbers as was allotted to

them. Thus, it is preposterous to assume that those candidates indulged in

swapping of roll numbers. He further submitted that the Board has asserted

that the candidates were involved in copying; whereas the respondent No.5

asserts that candidates were party to the conspiracy of change of roll

numbers. Relying on the Brochure issued by the Board inviting on line

application, it is argued that the action could be taken only when the

examination is on going. After declaration of results, the Board ceases to

have any authority to proceed against the candidates who had appeared in

that examination. He submitted that the Examination Halls were fitted with

CCTV Cameras. That evidence has been completely overlooked which

would go to show that the petitioners were not involved in copying. He

further submitted that mass scale irregularities came to light on 6th July,

2013. The arrest of 20 boys who had come from other States was made on

6th July, 2013. The Board remained a silent spectator and did not postpone

the examination. Instead, it proceeded to conduct the examination as per 51 schedule. Further, the Board proceeded to declare the results of all the

candidates. No action was taken by the Board till December, 2013. It is only

after political personalities were called for interrogation by the Investigating

Officer, the Board moved into action and made a farce of inquiry to justify

cancellation of examination results of the candidates who were meritorious.

Those candidates have been made scapegoat. He further submitted that the

constitution of the Computer Experts Committee was a farce of inquiry. He

submitted that the petitioner in Writ Petition No.21380/2013 was a

meritorious candidate and has been admitted in Government College having

secured 71.8% marks in Class 12th and distinction in three subjects. It is

further argued that the Board has failed to adhere to procedure prescribed in

Clause 4.12 of the Brochure, assuming that, that procedure applied to the

present case. No material is forthcoming suggestive of the fact that the

petitioner was connected with any accused persons. Further, there is nothing

in the impugned decision to substantiate that the petitioner got his roll

number changed from old roll number to re-allocated roll number. 13. (i) Shri Rajendra Tiwari, learned Senior Advocate appearing

in two writ petitions (W.P. Nos.21525/2013 and 321/2014) invited our

attention to the scheme of Act of 2007 (I). He submitted that as per that

scheme, the examination ends with declaration of results. After declaration

of results, the Board becomes functus officio. As a result, finality must be

attached to the results declared on 13th July, 2013. He submitted that unlike

the State Government, the Board does not have perpetual existence. It has 52 assigned objectives as provided by the statute. By virtue of Section 3 of the

Act of 2007 (I), the Board is incorporated. No Regulations have been

framed by the Board in exercise of power conferred on it by the Act of 2007

(I). For that reason, reference can be made only to Clause 4.12 of the

Brochure which requires report of Supervisor, Invigilator etc. to ignite the

process by the Board to declare the candidate having incurred

disqualification because of indulging in unfair means. That is the

quintessence for initiating action. The same is lacking in the present case.

The Board in the present case had very limited option. It could only refer the

matter to local Police for initiating criminal action. No other civil action,

much less of cancellation of examination result of the candidates, was

permissible. Relying on Clause 4.22 of the Brochure, he submitted that the

role of Board is limited to conducting examination and declaration of

results. Having declared the results, it could not have suo motu started any

action on the basis of subsequent information gathered regarding

commission of unfair means during the examination. In all fairness, he

disagreed with the submission made by the previous Advocates that the

Chairman/Board could not have constituted Computer Experts Committee to

aid and advice and to facilitate the Board/Chairman to take decision. He

submitted that the Board has intrinsic authority vested in it to discharge its

executive duties. He then submitted that there were apparent discrepancies

in the approach adopted by the Experts Committee. Having found that, the

mismatch was over 75%, the Board/Chairman ought to have cancelled the 53 entire examination and not limited to 415 candidates. He submits that if the

Board after cancellation of examination could not complete fresh process

before the cut off date specified by the Supreme Court, could have applied

to the Supreme Court for extension of time. In other words, the Board was

selectively proceeding against 415 candidates out of mismatch of 30195

candidates. He further submitted that some of the petitioners have taken

admission in Private Colleges against the management quota. The admission

so granted to them cannot be undone nor inquired into. At best, that could be

possible only under the provisions of Madhya Pradesh Niji Vyavsayik

Shikshan Sanstha Pravesh Ka Viniyaman Evam Shulk Ka Nirdharan

Adhiniyam, 2007 [hereinafter referred to "the Act of 2007(II)"]. (ii) He submitted that assuming without admitting that the

Board/Chairman had authority to cancel the admission process after

declaration of results even then the decision taken by the said authority

cannot affect the admission given to the petitioners in Private Colleges

against the management quota. For that reason, the decision of the College

in cancelling the admission of such students cannot be sustained. (iii) He has invited our attention to the provisions of the Admission

Rules, 2008 framed in exercise of powers conferred under Section 12 of the

Act of 2007 (II). He submits that since no Rules have been framed under the

Act of 2007 (I) to govern the situation under consideration, the Board was

duty bound to act reasonably. He submitted that the impugned decision of

the Board does not separately disclose the acts of commission or omission 54 of the concerned petitioner for taking action against them. In that, whether it

is a case of copying or of employing scorer to enhance the marks in the

examination and if so, the manner in which it has been done by the

concerned candidate. Further, no explanation is forthcoming about the role

of Supervisors, Invigilators and of any action taken against them. He

submitted that the final decision was based on the finding of some

Committee (Samiti). It is not clear whether reference is to Computer Experts

Committee or some other Committee. There is no material to indicate about

the manner in which analysis was done and by whom for arriving at the

conclusion of involvement of the named candidates. The conclusion is based

on fact which has not been inquired into. He submits that commission of

unfair means must be detected in the examination hall. That fact cannot be

assumed. More so, when the sitting plan on record mentions the safe

distance between two candidates. Besides, the question papers distributed to

the candidates were not identical. The question of copying by the student

from scorer is completely ruled out. He submits that mentioning of name of

the candidate in some material recovered during the investigation by the

police cannot be the basis to take such a drastic action against the candidate. (iv) He further submitted that one of the petitioners for whom he is

appearing, secured 141 marks whereas the so called scorer secured 143

marks. This presupposes that the petitioner did not engage any scorer. He

submitted that the order of cancelling the examination and more so, of

admission to professional courses already granted to any student is a drastic 55 order to be passed. That cannot be done on the basis of suspicion, but only

on clear proof of concerned student having engaged in unfair means during

the examination. Further, the allegations must be substantiated with legal

evidence. He submitted that before taking final decision, it was necessary to

find out as to who indulged in change of roll numbers to benefit selective

candidates and whether the candidate was himself responsible for the same. (v) He submitted that the Board had enough time to cancel the

entire examination having realized that mass scale unfair practice was

resorted to. The Board, in the first place, should have deferred the

examination and in any case, should not have declared the results till the

entire inquiry was over. It had sufficient time on hand as the admission

process was required to be completed only before 30th September, 2013, in

view of the decision of the Apex Court in Mriduldhar 's case. (vi) He submitted that it is not open to the Board to contend that post

decisional hearing can be given to the candidates to overcome the untenable

decision making process of not giving opportunity to the candidates against

whom action has been taken which entails in civil consequences. He

submitted that adhering to the principles of natural justice is a sine qua non

of fair and reasonable approach to be adopted by the Board and especially

when its decision entails in civil consequences. The Board has not resorted

to even inquisitorial dispensation before taking final decision. He submitted

that in the fact situation of the present case, the whole examination ought to

have been cancelled and not limited to cancelling the candidature of only 56 415 candidates. Further, the impugned decision of the Board is in the nature

of quasi judicial decision. While discharging quasi judicial function, the

Board was obliged to adhere to the principles of natural justice. He has also

placed reliance on Section 10 of the Evidence Act to contend that assuming

that actionable wrong was committed, that act could not be made the basis

of taking decision after declaration of results, not being a relevant fact sans

legal evidence. He further submitted that in the event of setting aside of the

impugned decision of the Board dated 9th October, 2013 or 6th December,

2013 as the case may be, in order to do complete justice to the petitioners

the Court must hold that status quo ante is restored to the date of admission

in the Medical Colleges and, the concerned petitioner be permitted to pursue

the medical courses. To buttress the above submissions, reliance has been

placed on Mriduldhar (Minor ) (supra), Sudhir Kumar Mishra and other

Vs. Municipal Corporation, Jabalpur and another14, Varkey Joseph Vs.

State of Kerala15 (Para 12), Shekhar Ghosh Vs. Union of India and

another ( supra) (Para 14, 17, 20 & 22), The Board of High School and

Intermediate Education, U.P. and others Vs. Kumari Chitra Srivastava and others16 ( Para 8), The Bihar School Examination Board Vs. Subhas

Chandra Sinha and others17 ( para 13), Board of High School and

Intermediate Education, UP Allahabad Vs. Ghanshyam Das Gupta and

others18 ( Para 2, 11 & 12), Indra Methi and others Vs. Board of

14 1978 MPLJ 9 (FB-MP) = AIR 1978 (M.P.) 65 (F.B.)
15 (1993) Supp. 3 SCC 745
16 (1970) 1 SCC 121
17 (1970) 1 SCC 648
18 AIR 1962 SC 1110 57 Secondary Education Rajasthan, Ajmer and others19, State of Gujarat

Vs. Mohammed Atik and others20 (Para 14), Satyabrata Biswas and

others Kalyan Kumar Kisku and others21 ( Para 19 & 20), State of M.P.

vs. Thakur Bharat Singh22 , Asha vs. Pt. B.D.Sharma University of

Health Sciences and others23, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and

others vs. Ram Ratan Yadav24 , Ram Kumar v. State of U.P. & others25, West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education & others v.

Roupshanara Momtaz & another26, Reshmi George vs. State of Kerala and another27, Board of High School and Intermediate Education, U.P.

Allahabad and another Vs. Bagleshwar Prasad and another28, Bihar

School Examination Board vs. Subhas Chandra Sinha ( supra), and

Central Bureau of Investigation vs. V.C. Shukla and others29. In the

rejoinder-reply, learned counsel reiterated that a PIL was filed challenging

the constitution of the existing Board. In that proceeding statement was

made that the Act of 2007 (I) has been enacted and on that basis the said

petition was disposed of. The State, however, has till date not issued

notification under Section 3 of the Act of 2007 (I) to establish the statutory

Board. Therefore, the existing Board cannot function and all actions of the

present Board are non-est. He also submitted that the State has enacted

19 AIR 1975 Rajasthan 116
20 (1998) 4 SCC 351
21 (1994) 2 SCC 266
22 AIR 1967 SC 1170
23 (2012) 7 SCC 389
24 (2003) 3 SCC 437
25 AIR 2011 SC 2903
26 AIR 1991 Calcutta 310
27 AIR 1997 Kerala 188
28 AIR 1966 SC 875
29 AIR 1998 SC 1406 58 Universities Act of 1973 and, therefore, the subject of admission including

pre-admission examination can be controlled only by the provisions of that

Act and the Ordinance issued thereunder. The question of exercising

executive powers under Article 162 of the Constitution qua subject of

admission cannot be sustained. He relied on the decision of the Apex Court

in Prabhakar Ramkrishna Jodh vs. A.L. Pande30 wherein it is held that

Ordinance has the force of Law. He alternatively submitted that the action, if

at all, could be taken by the Director of Medical Education who had

conducted the counselling or by the University where the candidate is

admitted. He submitted that the impugned orders passed by the Director of

the Board cannot be the sole basis to cancel the admission of the candidate. 14. In W.P. No.20342/2013 and W.P. No. 18738/ 2013, Shri K.K.

Goutam, Advocate; in W.P. No.18728/2013 and 2345/2014 Shri Ramji

Mishra, Advocate; in W.P. No.19465/2013 Shri Prabhakar Singh, Advocate;

in W.P. No.21297/2013 Shri Sanjay K. Agrawal, Advocate; in

W.P.No.21530/2013 Shri Ishan Soni, Advocate; in W.P. No.21554/2013 Shri

R.N. Dwivedi, Advocate have adopted the arguments of Shri Rajendra

Tiwari, Senior Advocate. 15. Mr. Vijay Tulsiyan, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners

in three matters (W.P. Nos.21522/2013, 21516/2013 and 2618/2014) in

addition submitted that the said petitioners had taken admission in private

colleges against the management quota. He adopted the arguments of the

previous Advocates and contented that post decisional hearing is not

30 1970 MPLJ 983 59 permissible in the fact situation of the present case. The order must go as a

whole for infraction of principles of natural justice. In the alternative, he

submitted that if the Court were to accept the stand of the Board that the

deficiency of violation of principles of natural justice could be cured by

providing post decisional hearing by the Board , in that case the petitioners

be allowed to continue with the studies until the final decision is taken by

the Board. He has placed reliance on the decision of the Supreme Court in

Charanlal Sahu vs. Union of India31 (Para 109). 16. Shri Shashank Shekhar, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner in W.P. No.18750/2013 submitted that the petitioner in the said

petition is one amongst the 70 candidates against whom order was passed on

6th December, 2013. According to this petitioner, no benefit has been

derived by this petitioner. He was at Sr. No.122 and, therefore, did not get

admission in Government College. He took admission in Private College.

The allegation that this petitioner used scorer is without any basis. The name

of the scorer has not been disclosed in the impugned decision or in the reply

filed by the Board. 17. Shri Pushpendra Yadav, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioners in W.P. Nos.21545/2013 and 19100/2013 contended that the

Examination results could be cancelled only on the ground of impersonation

as is stipulated in Clause 4.12 of the Brochure. The counsel has further

adopted the arguments advanced by Shri Rajendra Tiwari, Senior Advocate

in the respective matter. 31 (1990) 1 SCC 613 60 18. Shri Amit Khatri, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner in

W.P. No. 18708/2013 adopted the arguments of previous counsel but pointed

out that the petitioner in this case has taken admission in Private College. 19. In Writ Petition Nos. 18738/2013, 20318/2013, 21502/2013,

21503/2013, 21504/2013, 21507/2013, 21508/2013, 21510/2013,

21511/2013, 21513/2013, 21515/2013, 21517/2013, 21519/2013,

21520/2013, 21523/2013, 21526/2013, 21529/2013, 21531/2013,

21537/2013, 334/2014, 367/2014, 494/2014, 1668/2014, 1673/2014,

177/2014, 2381/2014, 2382/2014 and 2820/2014, no counsel addressed us

separately, Therefore, we assume that they have adopted the arguments

already made on behalf of the petitioners in other matters. 20. Shri P.K. Kaurav, learned counsel appearing for the Board

refuted the arguments canvassed on behalf of the petitioners as under:- ¼7½- MkW- ,y- ds tks'kh] Mhu] d`f"k egkfo|ky;]lhgksj lnL;
 ¼8½- MkW- vkj- ih- HkkxZo] Mhu] esfMdy] dkyst] Hkksiky lnL;
 ¼9½- Mk- ih- ,y- V.Mu] Mhu] esfMdy dkyst] bUnkSj lnL; ¼10½- MkW- ds- ih- esgjk] Mhu] esMhdy dkyst] jk;iqj lnL;
 ¼11½- Mk- ,l- ds- nklxqIrk] lapkyd] th- ,l- vkbZ- lnL; Vh-,l- bUnkSj
 ¼12½- Jh ,y- ,y- tSu] izkpk;Z] bathfu;fjax egkfo|ky;] lnL; tcyiqj
 ¼13½- Mk- ch- ,y- esgjks=k] izkpk;Z] ,e-,-lh-Vh-] Hkksiky lnL;

v/;{k dh fu;qfDr jkT; 'kklu }kjk dh tkus rd Jh ds- ds- pdzorhZ dk;Zdkjh
v/;{k jgsaxs- 3- O;kolkf;d ikB~;dze izos'k ijh{kk e.My ds xBu vkns'k ds jkti=
esa izdkf'kr gksus ij orZeku izh&esMhdy VsLV cksMZ rFkk bathfu;fjax VsLV cksMZ
lekIr gks tkosaxs- mudh leLr 'kfDr;ka rFkk muds drZO;ksa dk fuoZgu
O;kolkf;d ikB~;dze izos'k ijh{kk e.My }kjk fd;k tk;xk- e.My }kjk yh
tkus okyh ijh{kk bl izdkj vk;ksftr dh tkos fd o"kZ 1982 dk ijh{kkQy
tqykbZ 1982 ds e/; rd fuf'pr :i ls ?kksf"kr fd;k tk lds- 4- O;kolkf;d ikB~;dze izos'k ijh{kk e.My jkT; 'kklu ds tu'kfDr
fu;kstu foHkkx ds v/khu dk;Z djsxk- jkT; 'kklu dks ;g vf/kdkj gksxk fd
og e.My dks vius dk;Z lapkyu ds laca/k esa le;&le; ij vko';d funsZ'k
tkjh dj lds- jkT; 'kklu dk ;g vf/kdkj Hkh gksxk fd og e.My ds dk;Z
lapkyu ds fy;s fu;e cuk lds- 5- e.My Lor% ,d bdkbZ gksxk vkSj mls taxe rFkk LFkkoj nksuksa izdkj
dh lEifRr vftZr djus rFkk /kkj.k djus dk vf/kdkj izkIr gksxk- e.My vius 64 uke ls okn izLrqr dj ldsxk vkSj blh uke ls mlds fo:) okn izLrqr fd;s
 tkosaxs- 6- e.My }kjk fd;s x;s vFkok djus ls NksM+ fn;s x;s fdlh dk;Z ds
 fy;s jkT; 'kklu mRrjnk;h ugha gksxk- 7- tu'kfDr fu;kstu foHkkx lacaf/kr foHkkxksa ls ijke'kZ ds i'pkr e.My
 ds v/;{k rFkk lnL;ksa esa ifjorZu dj ldsxk- 8- e.My vius uke dk [kkrk [kksysxk] orZeku esa dk;Zjr ih-,e-Vh- cksMZ
 rFkk ih-bZ-Vh- cksMZ esa miyC/k lEink ,oa nkf;Ro e.My dks gLrkarfjr gks
 tkoasxs- 9- e.My ds dk;Z lapkyu gsrq vukorhZ O;; ds fy;s :i;s 3 yk[k rFkk
 fjoksfYoax Q.M ds crkSj C;kt jfgr _.k fn;k tkosxk- e/;izns'k ds jkT;iky ds uke ls rFkk vkns'kkuqlkj]
 ,-Ogh- doh'oj]
 fo'ks"k lfpo" The reconstitution of the Board was as per the decision of the Chief

Minister which was ratified by the Cabinet of Ministers. In supersession of

this notification, the said Board was reconstituted and named as

"Professional Examination Board" in terms of executive order issued in the

name of the Governor. The said Notification reads, thus: (emphasis supplied)

Once again the Board was reconstituted after the approval by the Cabinet

of Ministers by issuing executive order dated 22nd January, 2004 issued in

the name of Governor. This order was issued after approval by the Chief

Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers. The said order reads, thus: (iv) It is submitted that all the above orders, constituting the

Professional Examination Board, have been published in the Official

Gazette. The Board reconstituted, in terms of order dated 22nd January,

2004, was still functional and was made responsible to conduct pre-entrance

examinations for admissions to professional courses. Even the subject

examination, in respect of which the impugned orders have been passed on

9th October, 2013 6th December, 2013, has been conducted by this

Professional Examination Board. In other words, the impugned orders have

been passed by the officials of "Professional Examination Board" Similarly, the Chart mentioning the names of persons appointed as Directors

from time to time is also made part of the additional compilation. As

regards the appointment of the incumbent Chairperson, reliance is placed on

the order, issued in the name of Governor appointing the then Chairperson -

Dr. Devraj Virdi, dated 31st July, 2013, at page 213 of the compilation. The

same reads, thus: The said Dr. Devraj Virdi was later on replaced by the incumbent

Chairperson Shri A.P. Shrivastava vide order dated 17th February, 2014. The

same reads thus: (vi) In the same manner, our attention has been invited to the order

dated 30th July, 2013, issued in the name of the Governor, appointing Shri

John Kingsley as Director of the existing Board. The same reads, thus: (vii) It is also pointed out that when the appointment of any IAS

officer was made as Director or Chairperson of the Board, that order was

issued by the General Administration Department of the Government of

Madhya Pradesh and in other cases by the Technical Education Department

of the State. (viii) Suffice it to note that until the stage of arguments and, in

particular, the reply given by the Board, all concerned proceeded on the

erroneous premise that the examination in question was conducted by the

Board established under the Act of 2007 (I). (ix) Reverting to the submissions of the Board on other issues on

merits, it is submitted that the Chairman had full powers to deal with matters

under consideration including inherent powers to constitute Experts

Committee to provide assistance for taking final decision in the matter in

view of the technical issues involved. The final decision, however, is that of 72 the Chairman, on whose directions the impugned orders have been issued by

the Director. He further submits that the declaration of results would not

divest the existing Board constituted by the State Government in exercise of

its executive powers, to take action against the candidates who had appeared

in the concerned examination conducted by that Board. For, the action is in

relation to the examination process conducted by that Board, which had

exclusive power to conduct those examinations and deal with matters

connected therewith and incidental thereto. The fact that the results have

been declared does not whittle down the powers of the Board or divest the

Board of its obligation to decide issues in respect of matters connected with

the examination conducted by it. The declaration of result would make no

difference. He submits that action taken by the said Board is in connection

with the unfair means within the meaning of the stipulation provided in the

Brochure issued by it, inter alia, Sub-Clauses (Ka), (Gha), (Da), (Cha) of

Clause 4.12 of Chapter IV. He submits that receipt of the report from the

Supervisor or Centre Superintendent or Invigilator is not a prerequisite to

invoke that power. The said Board could independently take action with

regard to unfair means referred to in Clause 4.12. (x) He submits that it is amply clear from the office files that the

Director made recommendation to the Chairman of the said Board on the

basis of reports of the Computer Experts Committee and the Committee of

Controllers and other material. That recommendation was approved by the

Chairman after considering all aspects of the matter, who could legitimately 73 take the final decision thereon. (xi) Refuting the ground of breach of natural justice, he submits that

the Supreme Court has consistently held that when it is a case of mass-

copying, which in the present case it is, the question of giving personal

notice or opportunity to each candidate involved therein, does not arise.

Even though, large number of candidates are likely to be affected by such

action. (xii) He elaborated on the mechanism adopted by the Computer

Experts Committee in identifying the candidates on the basis of mismatch of

roll numbers and also the mechanism adopted by the Committee of

Controllers in finally identifying the candidates against whom action was

required to be taken. To explain the process adopted by the Computer

Experts Committee, the learned counsel for the Board produced the list of

1370 candidates to whom roll number was assigned by resorting to

randomization process. However, the second list containing the generated

roll numbers of the said candidates was also created and the third list was

that of the uploaded roll numbers of those candidates. He also explained the

methodology of allotment of slots for creating roll numbers which is

followed by the Board. In addition, he has presented a chart giving graphic

description as to how conspiracy was hatched to benefit the identified

candidates. We deem it apposite to reproduce the said Chart and note

appended thereto. The same reads, thus:- 1. 62 Students have filed writ petitions before this Hon'ble
 Court. All these students have secured admission in either
 government or private medical colleges. They appeared
 in the PMT Exam 2013 with the help of a scorer/solver. Out of the 62 scorers who were to assist the students, one
 was arrested just before the exam i.e. on 6.7.13. Out of
 the remaining 61 scorers/solvers, one was absent and the
 corresponding student of such scorer/solver received 119
 marks and could not get admission in a government
 medical college. Out of the remaining 60 scorers, 53
 were eligible for participating in the counselling process
 but there are only 2 scorers/solvers who have taken
 admission and filed writ petitions before this Hon'ble
 Court. The remaining 5 scorers have scored less than 100
 marks but their corresponding students have received very
 high marks which goes to show that they were mainly
 involved in assisting the students. 2. Out of 62 student and scorer/solver pairs, 6 student and
 scorer/solver pairs have the same marks, 27 student and
 scorer/solver pairs have a difference of less than 5 marks
 and in case of 4 students and scorer/solver pairs the
 difference in marks is less than 10 marks. 3. All the students and scorer/solvers have been allotted
 tampered roll numbers and included in the list of 876
 mismatched candidates. 4. All the 124 candidates (students+ scorers/solvers) have
 been mentioned in crime number 539/13. 5. All the students and scorers/solvers are mentioned in
 either Sudhir Rai, Jagdish Sagar or Sanjeev Shilpkar's list
 and are also mentioned in the list of mismatched roll
 numbers of 876 candidates prepared by the expert
 committee constituted by MP Professional Examination
 Board. 6. Out of the 62 students, 5 students are from outside MP
 while the remaining 57 are from within MP. Out of the 62
 scorers, 38 scorers/solvers are from outside MP and 24
 scorers/solvers are from within MP. 7. That out of the 62 students that have filed writ petitions,
 in only 5 cases, the percentage of matching answers
 between the answers selected by the student and the
 answer selected by the scorer/solver is less than 50%. In
 29 cases the percentage of matching answers is greater 91 than 90% and the highest being 99.5%. In 13 cases, the
 percentage of matching answers between the student and
 the scorer is greater than 80%. Thus there are 42 out of 60
 cases where the percentage of matching answers exceeds
 80%. In another 7 cases the percentage is greater than
 70%. 8. Therefore it is evident from the above-mentioned data that
 the more than half the scorers/solver were eligible to
 participate in the counselling process and subsequently
 take admission in the MBBS course. However except in
 two cases, the scorers have opted to not take part in the
 counselling process and if they have taken admission,
 they have not reported at the college for taking admission.
 Further in 49 cases, the student and scorers have
 attempted the same answers and these two facts together
 clearly shows that the scorers/solvers have taken part in
 the PMT examination 2013, only with an intention to aid
 and assist the students to take admission and all the
 students whose admission has been cancelled have
 managed to get admission into some or the other college
 and were pursuing the MBBS course until their
 candidature was cancelled. It is also clear that all these
 students were in contact with the three persons involved
 in the Vyapam MBBS scam and in 12 cases, the STF has
 already found that money was paid by the
 students/parents of the students or were in constant
 communication with the three key persons engaged in the
 scam. As the matter is still under investigation and the
 criminal trial is ongoing, details of payment by other
 students would also emerge and the facts would become
 clearer. Therefore on the basis of the aforesaid, the action
 of the answering respondent in cancelling the candidature
 of the petitioners is correct and there is a strong case
 against them." (xiii) He has invited our attention to the Activity Chart to bring home

the point that Nitin Mohindra, Senior System Analyst, who is now facing

criminal action, had breached the time-line specified; and including the

norms regarding allocation of roll-numbers. Instead of following the scheme

of randomised numbers generated by the computer, the erring officials of the 92 Board resorted to other manual method to generate roll numbers in relation

to the identified candidates, which was impermissible. Why that deviation

was made for those selective candidates, no explanation is forthcoming.

Further, the roll numbers were so allocated so that the sitting arrangement

matches with the plan given by conspirators and kingpin such as Jagdish

Sagar and others. Inasmuch as, the pattern emerging from the record

conclusively indicates that the scorer was allotted roll number to occupy the

front seat and the genuine candidate was allotted roll number to ensure that

he would occupy rear seat behind the scorer. This was done to facilitate

copying and assist the genuine candidates to score high marks. (xiv) He further submits, that the fact that some material has not been

referred to in the report or the impugned decision, it would not render the

same illegal or bad in law. He submits that it is well settled that all material

need not be referred to in the impugned order and, more so, it was open to

the Board to rely on further and even subsequent material to support its

decision in public interest, being case of mass-copying. He submits that the

Authority acted on the basis of information received from different sources

and including the reports of the Committees. The totality of the

circumstances was at the back of the mind of the Chairman who took the

final decision. (xv) Our attention has been invited to the provisions of Madhya

Pradesh Recognised Examination Act, 1937 to contend that the decision

taken by the Chairman on which basis the impugned orders have been 93 issued under the signature of Director, cannot be termed as without authority

or illegal especially when the decision is not based on some material but

substantial material to indicate the complicity of the candidates against

whom action has been taken. He pointed out the following indisputable and

incriminating facts emerging from the material available with the Board,

which leads to an inevitable conclusion that the identified candidates had

indulged in unfair means; (a) firstly, there was mismatch in the roll-numbers
 of the concerned candidates. The roll-numbers
 given to them were not as per the norm of
 randomised numbers generated by the
 computer as specified by the Board; (b) secondly, Nitin Mohindra, Senior System
 Analyst took away all the record in the system
 (computer data) on a pendrive and rearranged
 the same on the Computer at his residence to
 realign the roll-numbers of the concerned
 candidates and the scorers as per the plan given
 by the conspirators. He did not upload the roll- numbers within the time-frame prescribed in
 the Activity Chart. There was delay of three
 days in that behalf. The hard disk from the
 residence of Nitin Mohindra has been
 recovered by the police during the
 investigation, which reinforces the above
 position; (c) thirdly, names of students, mentioned in the
 diary of racketeers recovered by the police
 corresponds with the names of candidates 94 against whom action has been taken on account
 of mismatch of their roll-numbers; (d) fourthly, the sitting arrangement of the
 candidate and the scorer was identical to the
 plan suggested by the racketeers/conspirators,
 which is evidenced from the diary recovered
 from them; (e) fifthly, high percentage of matching of correct
 as well as wrong answers given by the scorer
 and the concerned candidate has been noticed
 from their respective answer-sheets; (f) sixthly, names of all the 415 candidates have
 been found in the STF list as involved in the
 commission of offence; (g) seventhly, over 90% of the scorers, though
 eligible, did not take admission nor participated
 in the counselling despite securing higher
 marks than the genuine candidates; (h) eighthly, the forms of scorers were filled
 through common web portal obviously
 controlled by the conspirators; and (i) ninthly, substantial number of scorers were
 from outside the State of Madhya Pradesh. (xvi) These indisputable facts, submits learned counsel, were

sufficient to justify the decision of the Authorities and to conclude that the

identified candidates, against whom action has been finally taken by the

Board, were involved in organised mass-copying and resorted to unfair

means during the examination. He relied on the provisions of the Information Technology Act 2000 and the meaning of expression 95 'decryption' to justify the mechanism adopted by the Computer Experts

Committee in identifying the candidates who indulged in unfair means. He

relied on the allegations against Nitin Mohindra in the pending criminal

case, which, according to him, discloses the conspiracy hatched on a very

large scale and involving huge money transactions. From the totality of

circumstances, according to him, no other conclusion could be reached by

any reasonable person, but, that the identified candidates had engaged in

organised mass-copying. That fact is reinforced from the material collected

during the investigation and shared with the Board; and corresponds with

the mismatch list of candidates prepared by the Computer Experts

Committee by applying allotment logic formula referred to in their report.

(xvii) He further submits that the argument of some of the petitioners

that those petitioners who have taken admissions in private medical colleges

cannot be disturbed as a consequence of cancellation of Entrance

Examination Results by the Board, is also devoid of merits. Inasmuch as, as

per the official record the said candidates have taken admissions in the

respective private colleges against the Government seats, which were

allotted on the basis of merits determined in the Common Entrance Test

conducted by the Board. In other words, if the candidate is found to be

ineligible to appear in the said examination or having incurred

disqualification as a result of which his entrance examination results are

cancelled, as a necessary consequence, even the admission in the private

medical college obtained on the basis of results of that examination cannot 96 be continued. He submits that 50% Management seats are filled up on the

basis of merits from amongst the candidates who have appeared in the

Common Entrance Test conducted by the college or institution through

single window arrangement by the State Government or by Agency

authorised by the Government. Only admissions taken on the basis of the

said examination will be governed by the Act of 2007 (II) and the Rules of

2008 framed thereunder. (xviii) To buttress the above submissions, learned counsel has placed

reliance on Sudhir Kumar Mishra and others v. Municipal Corporation,

Jabalpur and another (supra); The Bihar School Examination Board vs

Subhas Chandra Sinha (supra) (para 10, 12 to 14); Goa Shipyard Ltd.

vs. Babu Thomas32 (para 13); Sahiti and others vs. Chancellor, Dr.

N.T.R. University of Health Sciences and others33 (para 30 and 32); Board of High School and Intermediate Education, U.P. Allahabad and

another Vs. Bagleshwar Prasad and another (supra) (para 5, 6, 11 & 12); Bihar School Examination Board vs. Subhash Chandra Sinha (supra)

(para 2, 3, 6, 10 to 14); Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and

Higher Secondary Education vs K.S.Gandhi and others34 (para 10, 16,

17, 23 to 26, 28, 30, 37, 38, 40); Division Bench of this Court in the case of M.P. Board of Secondary Education, Bhopal vs. Ku. Shashi Tomer and

others35 (para 5 to 7); Ram Preeti Yadav vs. U.P. Board of High School 32 (2007) 10 SCC 662
33 (2009) 1 SCC 599
34 (1991) 2 SCC 716
35 2004 (1) MPLJ 455 (DB) 97 and Intermediate Education and others36 para ( 2 and 13), Aligarh

Muslim University and others v. Mansoor Ali Khan37 (para 8, 22, 23); State of Maharashtra and others vs Jalgaon Municipal Council and

others38 (para 32); M.C. Mehta vs Union of India and others Re: Inder

Mohan Besiwal Re: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd39 (para 21),

Secretary, Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational

Institutions Vs. Pindiga Sridhar and others40 (para 7); Chief General

Manager, Calcutta Telephones District, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited 41 and others vs Surendra Nath Pandey and others (para 12 and 16); Union of India and others Vs. Anand Kumar Pandey and others42 (para 43 9); B. Ramanjii and others Vs. State of A.P. and others (para 2, 7 and 8); Madhyamic Shiksha Mandal, M.P. vs Abhilash Shiksha Prasar

Samiti and others44 (para 2); Biswa Ranjan Sahoo and others vs 45 Sushanta Kumar Dinda and others (para 3); Chairman, J&K State

Board of Education vs. Feyaz Ahmed Malik and others46 (para 18 and 20); Chairman, All India Railway Recruitment Board and another vs.

K. Shyam Kumar and others 47 (para 11, 12, 16, 18, 20, 36 to 48). 21. After having considered the rival submissions, the moot

36 (2003) 8 SCC 311
37 AIR 2000 SC 2783
38 (2003) 9 SCC 731
39 (1999) 6 SCC 237
40 (2007) 13 SCC 352
41 2012 (1) SLJ 73
42 (1994) 5 SCC 663
43 (2002) 5 SCC 533
44 (1998) 9 SCC 236
45 (1996) 5 SCC 365
46 (2000) 3 SCC 59
47 (2010) 6 SCC 614 98 question that arises for consideration is: whether the existing Board has

been lawfully constituted and was competent to enquire into matters

pertaining to pre-admission professional examination conducted by it? No

doubt, the thrust of challenge of the petitioners was founded on the

provisions of the Act of 2007 (I). Even the respondents, including the

Board, while opposing the said grounds responded as if the existing Board

was functioning and exercising powers under the Act of 2007(I). That

stand, obviously, was taken in the written response filed by the Board

without proper research and, in fact, contrary to the factual situation

emerging from the official record. It is only during the course of arguments,

while responding to the queries posed by the Court, effort was made to dig

out the relevant official records to justify the existence of the present Board

and its authority. Indeed, the extracts of the office notings and the original

record have not been expressly adverted to in the reply-affidavit filed by the

Board, which, as aforesaid, was prepared without proper research and

perhaps in haste on instructions of the uninformed officials. The draftsman

of the affidavit did not think it necessary to enquire into all the relevant

facts before filing the return of the Board. That omission or lapse, however,

cannot be the basis to answer the issue under consideration disregarding the

factual position emanating from the office notings and the original official

record maintained in the ordinary course of business. To do substantial

justice and expound the correct factual and legal position on the issue under

consideration, in our opinion, is the bounden duty of the Court. For that, the 99 Court can look into the office notings in the original official record and not

answer the issue merely on the basis of incorrect stand taken in the reply

affidavit filed on behalf of the Board. We, therefore, hold that in larger

public interest the Board must be allowed to modify its stand consistent

with the official record and to place the same on record before the Court. 22. We may note that the petitioners in W.P. Nos. 20908/2013 &

21518/2013 have taken out I.A. Nos. 4154/2014 and 4155/2014. However,

these applications have been filed on 24/03/2014, during the course of

rejoinder-reply - at the fag end (last day) of the long drawn hearing -

praying for permission to file rejoinder. In that rejoinder, objection has

been raised about taking on record compilation of documents submitted on

behalf of the Board during the course of hearing. In the first place, it needs

to be noted that the compilation of documents, is none other than the true

copies (Photostat) of the relevant extracts of office notings in the original

official record maintained in the ordinary course of business of the existing

Board. Indubitably, for ascertaining the truth, the Court has enough

authority to summon the official record and examine the same. If so, when

the Board wanted to rely on such original official record to buttress its

modified submission and to reassure the Court about the correctness

thereof, then, certainly, the Court can and must take that into account to do

substantial justice and in larger public interest, to expound the correct

factual and legal position. That record will facilitate the Court to ascertain

the question of legitimacy of the existing Board and its authority. Further, 100 when the compilation of the relevant extract of the official notings in the

official record was produced before the Court, with the leave of the Court,

copy thereof was simultaneously made over to the counsel appearing for the

petitioners. In fact, the counsel for the petitioners relied on the same

documents to further their submissions. Hence, no prejudice has been

caused to the petitioners whatsoever. For all these reasons, we,

unhesitatingly, reject the hypertechnical objection of Mr. Amitabh Gupta

regarding taking on record the compilation of relevant extracts of the office

notings in the original official record and the public Notifications issued

from time to time. 23. Reverting to the question of status of the existing Board, it

becomes clear from the official record that the State Government, in

exercise of powers under Section 3(1) of the Act of 2007 (I), has so far not

issued public Notification to establish the Board within the meaning of that

Act. Indeed, the Act of 2007 (I) received assent of the Governor on 31st

August, 2007. But it was brought into force by issuance of Notification

under Section 1(3) of that Act on 11th October, 2007 with effect from 15th

October, 2007. The fact that the Act has come into force, it does not

necessarily follow that the Board referred to in Section 4 of the Act of 2007

(I) has been established. That could happen "only" on issuance of a formal

Notification under Section 3(1) of the Act of 2007 (I) by the State

Government, for establishing the Board with effect from such date, as may

be specified in the Notification. As long as this Notification is not issued, it 101 would be preposterous and impermissible to assume that the existing Board

has been merged in the Board under the Act of 2007 (I) or has become non-

existent, in fact or in law. 24. Notably, by virtue of Section 25 of the Act of 2007 (I) all assets

and liabilities of the existing Professional Examination Board of the State

Government would vest in the Board so established under Section 3 of the

Act of 2007 (I) and thence all the employees belonging to or under the

control of the existing Board would be deemed to be the employees of the

Board so established. 25. A priori, the employees/officials of the existing Board could

function and exercise all powers as already vested in them. At the same

time, the employees/officials of the existing Board could not exercise

powers with reference to the provisions of the Act of 2007 (I) and for the

same reason their action cannot be tested on the touchstone of provisions of

the Act of 2007 (I). In other words, the fact that the Board within the

meaning of the Act of 2007 (I) has not been established even after lapse of

seven years from coming into force of the Act of 2007 (I), that does not

mean that the existing Board was illegitimate and has had no authority to

conduct the pre-admission professional examinations. That authority vests

in the existing Board by virtue of the public Notification issued in the name

of Governor dated 22nd January, 2004. Extracts of the office notings in the

original files produced in the form of compilation reinforces that the said

public Notification was issued after approval by the Chief Minister and 102 Cabinet of Ministers. 26. The history of the existing Board, can be traced to public

Notification dated 30th July, 1983 issued in the name of Governor after the

approval of the Chief Minister and which decision was ratified by the

Cabinet of Ministers. The Manpower Planning Department, Government of

Madhya Pradesh issued order dated 30th July, 1997 in the name of the

Governor to change the name of the Board constituted vide Notification

dated 30th July, 1983 to "Professional Examination Board" and reconstituted

the Board as indicated therein. In due course, on 21st August, 1997, the post

of Director of the Professional Examination Board was created. By issuance

of order dated 22nd January, 2004 in the name of the Governor, the

Professional examination Board was reconstituted and the Director of the

Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board was nominated as

Member Secretary of the said Board. Indeed, individual members have

changed from time to time. In terms of the order dated 22nd January, 2004,

the Chairmanship and the Membership of the Board was made ex officio. In

other words, officials holding designated posts would automatically become

ex-officio members of the existing Board. This Board has not been

constituted by the State with reference to any enactment; but, in exercise of

its executive powers under Article 162 of the Constitution. In the case of Thakur Bharat Singh (supra), the Court examined the sweep of Article

162 and 73 of the Constitution. It held that the Articles are concerned

primarily with distribution of executive power between Union on one hand 103 and the States on the other, and not with validity of its exercise. The State or

its officers in exercise of executive authority cannot infringe rights of

citizens merely because Legislature of the State has power to legislate in

regard to subject on which executive order is passed. For the view we have

taken that the constitution of the existing Board is justly made in exercise of

executive power under Article 162 of the Constitution and further that the

said Board could deal with all matters connected with and incidental to the

examination to be conducted by it; and that authority has been justly

exercised in the present case, this decision will be of no avail to the

petitioners. 27. The Apex Court in the case of Dr. Amberesh Kumar vs.

Principal, I.L.R.M. Medical College and others48, has held that the

executive powers of the State Government under Article 162 of the

Constitution are very wide. In paragraph 19, the Court observed that the

State Government in exercise of its executive power can make an order

relating to matter referred to in entry 25 of the Concurrent List in absence of

the law made by the State Legislature. The exercise of such power cannot

be assailed on the ground that it is beyond the competence of the State

Government to make such order provided it does not encroach upon or

infringe the power of the Central Government as well as the Parliament

provided in respect of any entry in List 1. 28. In the case of State of Andhra Pradesh and another vs. Lavu 48 1986 (Supp.) SCC 543 104 Narendranath and others etc.49, the Court restated the legal position that

the Executive has power to make any regulation having the effect of a law

so long as it does not contravene any legislation already covering the field

and the Government order issued in exercise of such powers in no way

would affect the rights of the candidates. 29. In the case of M/s Bishamber Dayal Chandra Mohan (supra),

the Apex Court has relied on its earlier decision in the case of Rai Sahib

Ram Jawaya Kapur and others vs. The State of Punjab50 . In that case,

the Apex Court held that the executive power of a modern State is not

capable of any precise definition. The Court noted that the provisions in the

Constitution do not contain definition as to what the executive function is or

gives an exhaustive enumeration of the activities which would legitimately

come within its scope. It was observed that "Ordinarily the executive power

connotes the residue of governmental functions that remain after legislative

and judicial functions are taken away". The Court then went on to observe in

paragraph 20 as under: In paragraph 22, the Court reiterated the following position: 30. Notably, no enactment has been brought to our notice to even

remotely suggest that the constitution of the Board by the State Government

in exercise of its executive powers was repugnant to any express provision

of law made by the Parliament or by the State Legislature. The fact that the

Act of 2007 (I) envisages establishment of the Board does not mean that the

constitution of the existing Board is repugnant to the provisions of the said

Act. It is a different matter that the State ought to have established the

Board under the Act of 2007 (I), soon after coming into force of that Act.

However, from the office notings in the original office record relied by the

counsel for the Board, it is noticed that the matter has been examined at

different levels in the State Government and the State is actively

considering amendment of Section 4 of the Act, as, in its opinion, inclusion

of large number of persons as members of the Board would make the

working of the Board unwieldy and nonconducive to efficient and effective

dispensation. 31. Be that as it may, the primary obligation to conduct pre-

admission professional examinations for ensuring free and fair admission

process, is, undoubtedly, that of the State Government. This examination is

not held under any of the existing Legislation such as the Universities Act 107 or any Central Legislation. That responsibility has been vested in the

existing Board by the State, by constituting 'Professional Courses

Examination Board', vide public Notification dated 22nd January, 2004. The

examination conducted by the existing Board is also not governed by the

stipulations in the Act of 1937, which, after the amendment of 1984, intends

to regulate the recognized examinations by making provisions for

prevention of leakage of questions set and for penal action for adoption of

unfair means at such examinations and for certain matters connected

therewith. 32. The Act of 1937 was enacted to provide for the prevention of

leakage of questions set at recognized examinations and to provide for

actions for adoption of unfair means at such examinations and for matters

connected therewith. The preamble of the Act mentions that it had become

expedient to enact the said Act dealing with the matters referred thereto. It

was enacted with the previous sanction of the Governor General as required

by sub-section (3) of Section 80-A of the Government of India Act. The

term "recognized examination" is found in Section 2 of the said Act. Clause (b) thereof reads thus: It may be useful to refer to the expression "unfair means" found in clause (c)

of sub-section (2) of the Act, which reads thus: Section 3 of the Act stipulates restriction on copies of question paper and

offer of information. Section 3-A , which was introduced by way of

amendment vide M.P. Act No.20 of 1966, provides for prevention of leakage

by persons entrusted with examination work. By the same amendment, Section 3-B was introduced stipulating restriction on fake papers at the

recognized examination. Section 3-C to 3-E came to be introduced in the

said Act by M.P. Act No.7 of 1984, in the said Act. Section 3-C provides for

prohibition of loitering etc. near examination centre. Section 3-D provides

for prohibition of use of unfair means at recognized examinations and Section 3-E stipulates that any person indulging in the acts specified therein

shall be guilty of an offence of criminal intimidation in relation to

recognized examination. Section 3-C to Section 3-E of the said Act reads

thus: 3-E. Whoever being an examinee, within the
 premises of an examination centre, by words or by
 gesture or by use of any weapon or an object which if
 used as a weapon of attack is likely to cause injury to
 any human being, criminally intimidates an officer in
 charge of an examination centre, by whatever name
 called, or any invigilator or any member of staff
 assisting such officer-in-charge in the conduct of any
 recognised examination or whoever in the like
 manner criminally intimidates any person otherwise
 concerned with the conduct of examination as paper
 setter or in any other capacity whatsoever shall be
 guilty of an offence of criminal intimidation in
 relation to recognised examination." Section 4 of the same Act provides for penalty for contravention of Sections

3-A , 3-B , 3-C , 3-D or for commission of offence of criminal intimidation

under Section 3-E . Section 5 stipulates that conviction of any person will be 110 treated as an act of moral turpitude disqualifying him for service or

employment under the State. Section 6 provides that the offence under the

said Act shall be tried summarily by any judicial magistrate of the first class

specially empowered in that behalf by the State Government and the

provision of section 262 to 275 (both inclusive) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure , shall, as for as may be, apply to such trial. Section 7 provides for

power of the State Government to amend schedule appended to the Act. The

schedule to the Act is in relation to the examinations treated as recognized

examinations conducted by specified Authorities. The said Schedule reads

thus: Indeed, the examination conducted by the existing Board of pre-admission

to professional courses is not part of the abovenoted Schedule. 33. Suffice it to hold that the existing Board has been legitimately

constituted by the State Government vide notification dated 22nd January,

2004 - with some changes in the membership by subsequent orders/

notifications. The existing Board must continue to function in terms of

those State Government orders/notifications until establishment of the new

Board upon issuance of notification under Section 3(1) of the Act of

2007(I). Only upon issuance of that notification the existing Board would

merge in the newly established Board and cease to exist. Until then, the

existing Board is obliged to function and discharge the obligation of the

State Government of conducting free and fair pre-admission examination

for admission to professional courses and deal with all matters connected

therewith and incidental thereto. No other Authority can discharge those

functions. 34. As noted earlier, the present Board is not constituted under any

enactment, but, in exercise of executive powers of the State under Article

162 of the Constitution. It is not an autonomous body. It has the status of

being one of the wing of Government Department under the Ministry of

Technical Education Department or Department of Manpower Planning, as

the case may be. 35. The learned Single Judge of this Court in the case of 112 Professional Examination Board vs. Bhopal Municipal Corporation51 ,

while considering the issue of imposition of property tax dealt with the

question as to whether the existing Board is a part of the State. In

paragraphs 6 and 7 of its decision the Court observed thus: (emphasis supplied)
 We approve of this view. 36. In the case of State of Sikkim vs. Dorjee Tshering Bhutia and

others52, the Sikkim Government by notification decided to make special

recruitment to the service on the basis of written examination-cum-viva

voce test. The notification mentioned 'exigency of service' as a ground for

holding the special recruitment. That notification was challenged before the

High Court which quashed the same. In this case, the Public Service

Commission could not be made functional and was not constituted, as is the

position in the present case. The Court found that there were justifiable

reasons for delay in constituting the Commission. In that backdrop, the

Court examined the validity of the notification issued by the State

Government. The stand of the State Government was that the concerned

52 (1991) 4 SCC 243 114 Rules being inoperative and non-availability of Public Service Commission,

the State Government was within its executive power to issue notification

and proceed in the matter on that basis. While examining this stand, the

Apex Court in Paragraph 14, 15 & 16 observed as thus: (emphasis supplied) 37. A priori, the existing Board could exercise all powers as could

be exercised by the State Government in discharging its obligation to

conduct free and fair pre-admission examination to professional courses.

That would encompass all matters connected with the examination

conducted by it or incidental thereto. No other Authority can deal with these

matters. 38. The next question is: even though the existence of the present

Board may be traced to exercise of executive powers of the State

Government, does it have the authority to enquire into matters pertaining to 116 examination conducted by it after declaration of results? In other words,

does the Board become functus officio by declaration of results of the

examination conducted by it? 39. The Notification, under which the present Board has been

constituted, does not prescribe any procedure or limit the powers of the

Board. Intrinsically, it posits complete authority in the Board to conduct

examinations in professional courses and deal with all matters connected

therewith and incidental thereto. No executive instructions have been issued

by the State Government to limit the powers of the present Board in respect

of matters concerning the conduct of pre-admission examinations in

professional courses. Further, no express Regulation, instructions or practice

directions have been issued by the existing Board, nor brought to our notice,

which limits the authority of the said Board to enquire into matters

connected with the examinations conducted by it after declaration of results.

In absence of any express executive instructions much less legislation or

enactment, Regulation or Rule having the force of law, limiting the existing

Board of its authority to enquire into matters concerning the examinations

conducted by it only till the declaration of results and not thereafter, the

argument under consideration cannot be countenanced. Thus, the argument

of the petitioners that the Board became functus officio after declaration of

results and ceased to have authority to deal with matters connected with the

examination conducted by it, will have to be negatived. As a matter of fact

the petitioners are resting their claim of admission to the professional 117 courses on the basis of their performance in the examination conducted by

this very Board. 40. Indisputably, the obligation to conduct free and fair pre-

admission professional examinations is fully vested in the State Government

and which has been entrusted to the existing Board. That power not only

encompasses authority to conduct the examination but also enquire into all

matters concerning therewith or incidental thereto. That authority does not

cease with the declaration of results of such examination. Any other view

would not only be a pedantic view but also against public policy. For, that

may result in perpetrating injustice caused to the better deserving and

meritorious candidates, but, also perpetrating fraud played on the public

examination process. In Law, any act of fraud vitiates the entire action. The

product of fraud must be visited with the finding that it is non-est in the eyes

of Law and viewed seriously. That issue can be considered even in collateral

proceedings. In the case of Ram Preeti Yadav (supra) the Apex Court

observed that once fraud is proved it will deprive the persons of all

advantages or benefits obtained thereby and further delay in detection or in

taking action so as to invoke argument of equity would be completely

misplaced. The Court also restated the legal position that in the case of mass

copying, principles of natural justice need not be strictly complied with. In

that case the appellant had taken employment as a teacher on the basis of

results in B.A. examination as well as M.A. examination. Result of the

concerned examination was cancelled on 16th October, 1996, though the 118 examination was conducted in the year 1984. Notwithstanding this fact, the

Court opined that since the result of the examination was founded on

commission of fraud that would deprive the appellant of all advantages or

benefits obtained thereby. 41. Suffice it to observe that a candidate who indulges in unfair and

fraudulent means during the "public examination" cannot be allowed to reap

benefit of his own wrong merely because of the fortuitous situation of that

fraud has been unravelled by the concerned Authority after declaration of

result of the examination or for that matter inaction of the officials of the

Board in acting with dispatch. Since the authority of the present Board is to

conduct examinations and deal with all matters connected therewith and

incidental thereto, it pre-supposes that it is only the Board, being an

extended wing of the State, competent to enquire into the question regarding

unfair and fraudulent means adopted during the examinations conducted by

it - be it before declaration of results or, for that matter, after declaration of

results. The fact that the candidate has already taken admission in some

professional course on the basis of those results cannot be the basis to hold

that the Board has become functus officio or it has ceased to have authority

to pronounce on the matters connected with the examination conducted by it

and, in particular, regarding unfair and fraudulent means adopted thereat, by

an individual candidate or large number of candidates, as the case may be. 42. Let us now test the argument of the petitioners that the

provisions of the Act of 2007 (I) limits the power of the Board. In the first 119 place, although the said Act has come into force, on account of non-

establishment of the Board by issuance of Notification under Section 3(1) of

the Act of 2007 (I), the provisions contained in that Act regarding functions

and duties of the Board will be of no avail. That are not applicable to the

existing Board. In any case, there is no "express provision" in the Act of

2007 (I) to limit the power of the Board to enquire into allegations of

commission of unfair means during the examination only till declaration of

results of the examination. Even for that reason, reliance on the provisions

of the Act of 2007 (I) will be of no avail to the petitioners. We make it clear

that we may not be understood to have interpretated any provision of the

Act of 2007 (I). For, in our view, the provisions in the Act of 2007 (I) are

inapplicable to the matter on hand. A priori, it is unfathomable to

countenance the argument of the petitioners that the existing Board has had

no authority to initiate enquiry after declaration of examination result. 43. The next question is: whether the impugned orders passed by the

Director of the existing Board are without any authority? The State

Government, as aforesaid, constituted the present Board to be headed by the

Chairperson and other members. The Chairperson, obviously is the

Administrative Head of the Board. No doubt, the impugned orders are

issued under the signature of the Director of the Board. However, the

relevant official notings in the original official files as produced by the

respondents during the hearing, clearly indicate that initially the Director

prepared the proposal and placed it before the Chairperson for his approval. 120 The Chairperson, in turn, on both the occasions not only approved the

proposal, as was placed before him by the office but also directed the

Director to take follow-up action. Thus understood, the impugned orders

though issued under the signature of the Director are in furtherance of the

final decision of the Chairperson. As the Chairperson is the Administrative

Head of the existing Board, he occupies a pivotal position and carries with

him implied powers to deal with all matters connected with and incidental to

the examinations conducted by the Board. In the case of Sahiti (supra) the

Apex Court while considering the provisions of the relevant enactment held

that, the Vice Chancellor had pivotal position as the Principal Executive

Officer and carried with him certain implied powers. The argument that

there was no specific provision enabling the Vice Chancellor to order re-

evaluation of the answer-scripts was rejected. It is further observed that the

Court should consider whether the decision of the educational Authority is

arbitrary, unreasonable, mala fide and whether the decision contravenes any

statutory or binding Rules or Ordinance and in doing so the Court should

show due regard to the opinion expressed by the Authority. 44. In the present case, from the office notings in the official record

as produced, it is also evident that by an office order dated 17th March,

1997, the scope of work of the officials was delineated. The said order

reads, thus:- 45. Relying on the fact that one PIL filed against the respondents

challenging the constitution of the existing Board was disposed of on the

basis of statement made by the respondents to the Court that the Act of 2007

(I) has come into force, it was submitted that, however, till date requisite

notification under Section 3 of that Act to establish the statutory Board has

not been issued. For that reason, all the actions of the existing Board will

have to be considered as non-est as it could not function any more

thereafter. Further, the actions of the existing Board can be tested only on

the basis of the provisions of the Act of 2007 (I). We have already dealt with

the question about the legality of the Board. The fact that statement was

made before the Court which was the basis for disposal of PIL challenging

the constitution of the existing Board does not result in automatic

dissolution of the existing Board. On the other hand, Section 25 of the Act

of 2007 (I) itself expressly provides that the existing Board would merge in

the statutory Board only upon issuance of notification under Section 3 to

establish the statutory Board. The fact that such notification has not been

issued does not mean that the existing Board would cease to exist. It is the

creature of an executive order of the State Government, issued in exercise

of its expansive executive powers. The Board is one of the wing of the State

Government under the Department of the Ministry of Technical Education 124 Department or Department of Manpower Planning. For the same reason the

argument under consideration deserves to be rejected. 46. The next question that arises for our consideration is: whether

the decision making process, in the fact situation of the present case, is just

and reasonable? Indeed, in absence of any Regulations or executive

instructions the Authority is expected to act reasonably [see Full Bench

decision of this Court in Sudhir Kumar Mishra (supra)]. 47. In the case of Feyaz Ahmed Malik (supra) the Apex Court

restated the consistent view on the approach to be adopted qua the decision

of the expert body such as Universities/Boards. In paragraphs 18 to 20, the

Court observed thus: 19. The Allahabad High Court in Rajiv Ratna Shukla v. University of Allahabad, AIR 1987 All 208, made the
following observations: 20. Coming to the case on hand, as noted earlier, the
High Court has quashed the notification issued by the
Board as ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution and
ultra vires the Act. Further the High Court has
discussed at length how the Board should proceed in
the matter and has issued directions regarding the
principles to be followed and matters to be borne in
mind by the Board while framing Rules and has even
issued directions as to what some of the provisions of
the Rules should be. From the discussions in the
impugned judgment it is clear that the High Court has
taken upon itself the task of finding out a scheme to
tackle the problem of mass malpractice in
examination. In our considered view the approach of
the High Court in the matter is erroneous and this has
vitiated the judgment. In matters concerning campus
discipline of educational institutions and conduct of
examinations the duty is primarily vested in the
authorities in charge of the institutions. In such
matters the court should not try to substitute its own
views in place of the authorities concerned nor thrust
its views on them. That is not to say that the court
cannot at all interfere with the decisions of the
authorities in such matters. The court has undoubtedly
the power to intervene to correct any error in
complying with the provisions of the rules, regulations
or notifications and to remedy any manifest injustice
being perpetrated on the candidates. In judging the
validity a notification containing provisions regarding
steps to be taken when a report of mass- malpractice is
received it is to be kept in mind whether the
provisions contained in the notification are relevant
for achieving the purpose for which the notification is
issued and if it is found that the notification is relevant
for and has a nexus with the purpose to be achieved
then the notification cannot be said to be arbitrary and
discriminatory. The High Court has failed to keep this
principle in view while considering the validity of the
notification in question. A notification cannot be
struck down as discriminatory merely because in
implementing the same injustice is likely to be 128 suffered by some candidates. The impugned judgment
 does not show that the decision to strike down the two
 notifications is based on grounds sound in law and
 justified on facts. It is our considered view that the
 judgment of the High Court is unsustainable and has
 to be quashed." (emphasis supplied) 48. Keeping in mind the principle expounded in the abovesaid

decision, we may now analyse the process adopted by the existing Board to

find out whether the same is just and reasonable. From the office notings in

the original files it is seen that the Board received communication from the

Crime Branch in connection with the FIR registered after arrest of 20

suspects, who were to appear in the examination to be conducted by the

Board on 7th July, 2013 and having indulged in unfair means during the said

examination. The Crime Branch demanded certain information. In that

context, the Director eventually prepared proposal on 30th August, 2013 for

constituting Computer Experts Committee to find out the logic behind

allocation of roll numbers to the concerned candidate, as demanded by the

Crime Branch. The proposal was considered by the Chairperson on 5th

September, 2013, who accorded approval thereto. The office notings in the

original file reads thus:- 49. The said Computer Experts Committee met on 7th September,

2013 and after analysing the computer data available with the Board,

submitted their opinion in the form of Minutes dated 7th September, 2013,

which has been reproduced in its entirety in paragraph 4(viii) of this

judgment. The second meeting of the Computer Experts Committee was

held on 30th September, 2013, which once again analysed the entire matter

in the light of new information and submitted its opinion in the form of 130 Minutes dated 30th September, 2013, which has also been reproduced in

paragraph 4(xii) of this judgment. On conjoint reading of the Minutes of the

two meetings held by the Computer Experts Committee, the process adopted

by the Experts Committee to unravel the logic of allocation of roll numbers

by manipulating the specified formula of randomisation, can be discerned.

The Computer Experts Committee analysed the electronic record/data after

decryption thereof. The process so adopted by the Computer Experts

Committee is not the subject matter of challenge nor the exercise undertaken

by the Computer Experts Committee to collate the mismatch roll numbers

from the computer data, is questionable and can be amenable to judicial

review. This argument of the respondent Board was buttressed on the basis

of the provisions contained in the Information Technology Act, 2000 providing for authentication of electronic record. 50. One set of petitioners went to the extent of contending that the

Board had no authority to constitute such Committee. This extreme stand

taken by those petitioners, however, was not supported by the other set of

petitioners represented by Shri Rajendra Tiwari, Senior Counsel. In our

opinion, it is preposterous to hold that the Board which is empowered to

take action in connection with the unfair means adopted by the candidates

in the examination conducted by it, can have no power to inquire into the

said episode by constituting Experts Committee to aid and assist it in the

said enquiry in respect of technical matters concerning the Computer

operations. We, therefore, reject that contention. 131 51. It was then contended that in the first Computer Experts

Committee meeting, the mismatch was as high as 30195, as against the total

40086 applications/candidates. Whereas, in the second meeting the same

dropped down to only 876 mismatch cases. Even this submission will have

to be stated to be rejected. Inasmuch as, from the Minutes of the first

meeting, the process adopted by the Committee to identify the mismatch

cases has been delineated. On reconsideration of the available material, in

the second meeting, the Committee opined that the mismatch cases were

only 876. The process adopted by the Committee has been noted by the

Committee in the concerned Minutes. It is not for the Court to examine the

correctness of the opinion formed by the Experts Committee. The judicial

review can be only with regard to the decision making process. In our

opinion, there is nothing contrary to indicate that the process adopted by the

Experts Committee was impermissible and absurd in any manner. 52. The other contention pressed into service to question the

opinion recorded by the Computer Experts Committee was that the second

meeting held on 30th September, 2013 was hastened and was attended only

by five members of the said Committee. The meeting was hastened to keep

the outstation member away from deliberations. Even this argument does

not commend to us. There is nothing in the Minutes of the first meeting

even to remotely indicate that the process followed for recording opinion

was authored by Dr. Samar Upadhyay, who was the outstation member of

the Committee being resident of Jabalpur. Nor any material is brought to 132 our notice that Dr. Samar Upadhyay was intentionally kept out as there was

possibility of his resisting the opinion formed in the second meeting. We

cannot assume malice in fact, merely because the said member did not or

could not attend the second meeting of the Experts Committee held on 30th

September, 2013. The office record indicates that the second meeting was

necessitated to expedite the information sought by the Crime Branch. Since

the second meeting of the Computer Experts Committee was convened on

30th September, 2013 at short notice, the same was attended only by five

other local members available at Bhopal. Further, it is not as if those five

members had no technical knowledge. Even these five members were

qualified and possessed technical knowledge regarding Computer

operations. They could have, therefore, proceeded with the second meeting

without any impediment. The petitioners have, however, relied on the case

of Vijay Singh Lamba (supra) of the Apex Court which dealt with the

question of fixation of quorum to contend that the second meeting of the

Computer Experts Committee was vitiated. This submission will have to be

stated to be rejected. For, no document has been brought to our notice

mentioning that the quorum of the said meeting was fixed of all the six

members. In the decision pressed into service, the Apex Court has held

that fixation of quorum is generally left to the Committees themselves to

devise its day to day procedure. Hence, this decision will be of no avail to

the petitioners, in the fact situation of the present case. As aforesaid, in that

second meeting, the matter was fully examined and opinion was given that 133 the mismatch cases were only 876. The reason why there was change of

opinion can be culled out from the highlighted portion of Minutes of that

meeting. The process adopted for arriving at that conclusion has been

adverted to in the Minutes, already reproduced in paragraph 4(xii) of this

judgment. 53. It was then contended on behalf of the petitioners that the

opinion so given by the Computer Experts Committee was under dictation

of the Special Task Force investigating the criminal case. As aforesaid, the

Minutes recorded by the Experts Committee are self-eloquent. There is

nothing in the Minutes of the said meeting to suggest that figure of 876

mismatch cases has been arrived at in arbitrary manner or only on the basis

of the inputs given by the STF. We hold that the said figure has been arrived

at independently after reconsideration of the Computer data and including

with reference to the answers given by Nitin Mohindra, Ajay Kumar and

C.K. Mishra, who were in police custody. The Committee opined that the

said information was unclear and incomplete. The Committee, therefore,

applied its own process to analyse the logic of giving manipulated roll

numbers. It created separate files of candidates city-wise and indexing of

files was done on the basis of date of birth, Part-7 to 11 of Transaction ID

and C.L. Name (Surname). In the index file, firstly, roll numbers were

allotted as per specified record and thereafter roll numbers were allotted on

the basis of deviated record. After carrying out this exercise, the Experts

Committee found that the data of the roll numbers of all 14 cities was 134 developed by subject Experts. In the roll numbers developed by the subject

Experts and the numbers used in PMT 2013, the mismatch shown by the

subject Experts was on the basis of 40135 applications/candidates. The

mismatch of 876 was unravelled, which was kept in file MIS876.docx. A

chart of various probable options of Transaction ID was kept in file

Digits_2013_Revised.docx and the programme used by subject Experts was

kept in file Rol_GEN.docx. On that material, the city-wise mismatch

position has been noted in the Minutes of the second meeting of the Experts

Committee totalling to 876 cases. Suffice it to note that no flaw in the

process adopted by the Experts Committee has been substantiated by the

petitioners. 54. Merely criticising the said process as imaginary and farce of

enquiry, cannot be the basis to overlook the said opinion of the Experts

Committee. The Experts Committee's opinion was then further considered

by the Committee of Controllers. The Committee of Controllers analysed

the entire matter in its meeting held on 4th October, 2013 and on 8th October,

2013. The process adopted by the Committee of Controllers can be

discerned, inter alia, from the highlighted portion of its examination report

dated 8th October, 2013, which is reproduced in paragraph 4(xvi) of this

judgment. The opinion of the Committee of Controllers was then considered

by the Director and placed along with the proposal before the Chairperson

for taking appropriate action against 345 identified candidates allegedly

having involved in unfair means during the examination. The Chairperson 135 approved the said proposal and issued direction to the Director to take

follow-up action. On the basis of that direction, the Director issued the

impugned order on 9th October, 2013 against 345 candidates. Similar

process was carried out by the Committee of Controllers in respect of

second lot of 70 candidates against whom action was taken vide impugned

order dated 6th December, 2013. Even the examination report prepared on

the second occasion by the Committee of Controllers concerning 70

candidates has also been reproduced in paragraph 4(xxi) of this judgment.

In other words, the impugned orders have been passed under the signature

of the Director of the Board after due deliberations and consideration at

different levels and including on the basis of opinion of the Computer

Experts Committee and the Committee of Controllers. It is not as if decision

has been taken by the Board arbitrarily or merely because of the

communications received from the Crime Branch or for any other

consideration. For forming such opinion, if material received from the

Crime Branch was also considered, being relevant, that does not mean that

the opinion formed was under the dictation of STF. There is no reason to

doubt the justness of the process followed by the Board before issuance of

the impugned decisions. 55. The attempt of the petitioners was to persuade the Court to go

into the question as to whether the opinion formed by the Computer Experts

Committee or for that matter the Committee of Controllers, was proper or

some other opinion could have been formed. That cannot be the scope of 136 judicial review. It is not for the Court to sit over the opinion of the Experts

Committee as a regular Court of Appeal. It is not the case of the petitioners

that the members of the Computer Experts Committee were unqualified or

incompetent to be the members of that Committee. If the Board has taken

aid of such well-qualified, competent and impartial experts and the final

decision is taken keeping in mind the said opinion along with other

material, no fault can be found with that approach. 56. Suffice it to observe that it is not a case where the decision has

been taken by unauthorised or incompetent persons or, for that matter, a

mala fide or arbitrary decision. It has been taken after due deliberations and

consideration of relevant material. Even assuming that another view was

possible, that cannot be the basis to undo that decision. The fact that initial

mismatch figure revealed in the first meeting of the Computer Experts

Committee was very high and it was later reduced to only 876 by the

Committee of Joint Controllers or that the action was limited to 345 in the

first lot and 70 candidates in the second lot, it does not mean that the said

decisions are unjust and unreasonable. 57. In the context of the argument of the petitioners that the Board

has taken action against selective candidates out of 876 candidates, it has

been pointed out that the matter was being examined by the Board in

respect of the remaining candidates and lateron we were told that similar

action has been taken against other 24 left over candidates. Be that as it

may, it is not possible to hold that the process adopted by the Board before 137 arriving at the impugned decisions, is unjust or unreasonable. 58. It has come on record that after the matter was processed at

different levels, the proposal was then submitted by the Director to the

Chairman for his approval who, in turn, approved the same and issued

directions to the Director to take follow-up action. On the basis of those

orders, the Director issued the impugned orders dated 9th October, 2013 and

6th December, 2013. As regards the decision which culminated with the first

order dated 9th October, 2013, that was placed before the Executive

Committee of the Board in the meeting convened on 19th November, 2013.

The Executive Committee not only approved the said decision but also

ratified the same. As regards the second decision dated 6th December, 2013

concerning 70 candidates, the matter is yet to be placed before the

Executive Committee. It is stated that the Executive Committee of the

Board has not met since the said decision was taken; and as and when the

meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board is held, even this decision

will be placed before the Executive Committee. In this context, it was

argued that even the Chairman could not have taken the final decision much

less without taking prior approval of the Executive Committee. We are not

impressed by this submission. The fact that the first decision dated 9th

October, 2013 was placed before the Executive Committee of the Board for

its consideration, does not mean that the Chairman of the Board had no

authority to take the final decision at his level. The Chairman, being the

Administrative Head, had requisite authority to take the final decision in 138 respect of all matters concerning the examination conducted by the Board

and, in particular, about the unfair means adopted during the said

examination. No express provision of law has been brought to our notice

which required prior approval of the Executive Committee of the Board

before final decision was taken by the Chairperson. Reliance placed on the

provisions of the Act of 2007 (I) by the petitioners to buttress this argument

will be of no avail. We have already held that although the Act of 2007 (I)

has come into force, the provisions of that Act cannot be invoked to

regulate the working of the existing Board. The existing Board has been

constituted by the State Government in exercise of its executive powers

under Article 162 of the Constitution to discharge the obligation of the State

of conducting pre-admission professional courses examination. Suffice it to

observe that the decision of the Chairperson which culminated with the

issuance of impugned orders under the signature of the Director could be

acted upon and taken to its logical end irrespective of the approval or the

ratification thereof by the Executive Committee. 59. It was faintly argued that the ratification of impugned order

dated 9th October, 2013, by the Executive in its meeting dated 19th

November, 2013 was not legal and enforceable as it was not even signed.

Firstly, this argument was canvassed on the basis of information received by

the petitioners under RTI. Secondly, having already found that the

Chairperson of the Board was fully competent to take all decisions in the

matter concerning the institution of inquiry and to annul the candidature of 139 the candidates, who were identified in the enquiry as having involved in the

commission of organised unfair means, ratification of the final decision of

the Chairperson was unnecessary. Moreover, the counsel for the Board had

shown willingness to produce the original official file containing the duly

signed Minutes of the Executive Committee dated 19th November, 2013.

Thus, we find no merits in this submission. 60. Reliance was placed on Goa Shipyard Ltd. (supra) in support

of the argument that ratification of invalid act for being validated

retrospectively is no more res integra. In para-13 of this decision the Apex

Court has accepted this contention relying upon the decision in Maharashtra State Mining Corporation vs. Sunil53 . In the present case,

however, we have already held that the Chairperson had complete authority

to deal with matters connected with and incidental to the examinations held

by the Board and for which reason ratification of his decision was not

imperative. 61. In the case of Dr. Mohanjit Singh (supra), the Apex Court was

dealing with a case where ratification of the decision taken by the member

was done subsequently by the absentee member. The Court has opined that

ratification by that member at a later point of time cannot validate the

proceedings of the selection committee as there was no quorum and in its

absence, the committee was not entitled to transact business. We fail to

understand as to how the principles stated in this case are applicable to the

case on hand. Moreso, we have held that there was no need to take approval

53 (2006) 5 SCC 96 140 of the Executive Committee or, for that matter, ratification of the decision of

the Chairperson. 62. The next question is: when the mismatch is found in respect of

876 candidates, the action of the Board can be sustained as it chose to take

action selectively only against 415 candidates. The argument of the Board is

that the figure of 876 mismatch pertains to the combination of scorer and

the genuine candidate. Thus, the action to cancel the examination results

was required to be taken only against the genuine candidates constituting

50% of 876 mismatches. The 50% of 876 mismatches would work out to

438 candidates. Instead, the Board has presently taken action against 415

candidates and, as was stated across the Bar, against additional 24

candidates. That takes the total figure to 439 candidates. It is intriguing that

why similar action cannot be taken against the pseudo candidates (scorers)

who had appeared to enhance the prospects of the genuine candidates. They

also sail in the same position of having indulged in organised unfair means

during the examination and, therefore, must visit with the same

consequences. We hope that the Board would consider this aspect,

irrespective of the fact that the remaining 437 out of 876 identified

candidates have secured admission to any professional course or named in

the list of candidates furnished by STF or otherwise. However, we hold that

that approach of the Board cannot be a ground to interfere with the just

orders passed against the petitioners and similarly placed persons. 141 63. Further, the logic applied by the Board in limiting its action to

415 candidates, as can be culled out from the reasons recorded in the

impugned decisions and the contemporaneous record on the basis of which

that decision is taken, is that, the action has been taken against candidates

whose names are correspondingly appearing in the list of candidates

prepared by the STF allegedly involved in commission of unfair means

during the examination. The question is: whether that approach of the Board

can be sustained. The learned counsel for the Board has placed reliance on

the decision of the Apex Court in the case of Chairman, All India Railway

Recruitment Board (supra) in support of the argument that if more than

one option was available to the Board and if the Board had taken decision to

take action only against the candidates whose names appeared in both the

lists prepared by the STF and the Board, that decision ought not to be

interfered with by the Court. In the above noted reported case, in paragraph

20, the Supreme Court adverted to three options available to the Authority

as against which the Authority chose to take action against limited number

of candidates: It may be useful to refer to following observations in this decision: 48. Applying the above principle, we are of the view
 that the finding recorded by the High Court that non- supply of the copy of the Vigilance report to the
 candidates was a legal infirmity, cannot be
 sustained." (emphasis supplied)

In this case, the Court was called upon to examine the issue regarding

validity of the order passed by the Board directing holding of re-test for

recruitment Group D post, for those candidates who had obtained minimum 147 qualifying marks in the first written examination where large scale

irregularities were noticed. The Court noted that the High Court rejected the

contention that the order was politically motivated and mala fide. In the

present case, no argument has been advanced that the impugned orders are

politically motivated or mala fide, as such. The argument is about the

justness of the approach and the conclusion reached by the Board. That

argument will have to be examined on the touchstone of principles

enunciated by the Apex Court. This decision is also an authority on the

proposition that it is open to the Authority to justify its decision relying on

subsequent material available to support its action, in public interest. The

stand taken by the Board, in the present case, commends to us. In that, the

Board chose to resort to one of the options amongst other options including

of cancellation of the entire examination results. Judicial review of that

subjective satisfaction of the Board is not permissible. No doubt, in the

initial enquiry by the Computer Experts Committee, it was revealed that

there were as much as 30195 mismatches out of total 40086

applicants/candidates. But, on further scrutiny the said mismatch condensed

to only 876 mismatches. We have already found that the process adopted by

the concerned Committees is a possible approach and, therefore,

unexceptional. No doubt, mismatch of as many as 876, is a substantial

number, but that did not warrant cancellation of entire examination

especially keeping in mind the fact that the results were to be declared on

13.07.2013 and the entire admission process to professional courses in the 148 State was to be completed before 30th September, 2013. Keeping in mind

the paucity of time and the fact that involvement of concerned candidates

was revealed essentially after the constitution of the Computer Experts

Committee in September, 2013 which culminated with the opinion of the

said Committee on 30th September, 2013 and followed by the further

enquiry by the Committee of Controllers which culminated with the opinion

rendered by that Committee on 8th October, 2013, no fault can be found

with the decision of the Board to proceed only against the identified

candidates. By cancellation of the entire examination, that would not only

have affected large body of other candidates, but, also entailed in keeping

all the seats in the professional and medical colleges of the entire State

vacant for the concerned academic year. Viewed in this perspective, no fault

can be found with the decision of the Board of having initially proceeded

against the identified 415 candidates, vide impugned decisions. 64. The next question is: whether impugned decisions fulfil the

requirement of Chapter-IV of the Brochure. In the first place, the Brochure

is only a handbook issued for guidance and the procedure to be followed.

That would not limit the expansive powers of the Board to take action

having found that organized mass-copying was indulged during the

examination conducted by it. Assuming that the power vested in the Board

could be limited to the provisions contained in the Brochure being advance

declaration of the procedure to be followed by it, we have no hesitation in

taking a view that the impugned decisions are well within the parameters 149 specified in the Brochure. For the sake of convenience, we will reproduce

the relevant extract of the Brochure. The opening part of the Brochure gives important instructions. The same,

inter alia, stipulates that the candidate must give correct information while

submitting the application form but it also goes on to mention that if it is

noticed that the applicant got entry (in the examination conducted by the

Board) because of any mistake, that can be cancelled. The overarching

power of the Board does not get whittled down by this instruction. Clause

4.12 of the Brochure refers to unfair means. The said clauses are only

illustrative instances when the act of commission or omission of a candidate

will result in indulging in unfair means during the examination. We find

force in the argument of the counsel for the Board that clauses (Ka), (Gha),

(Da), (Cha) and the later part of the same provisions, are sufficient enough

to attract action as taken by the Board, as a result of organized mass-

copying by the candidates concerned. We also agree with the submission of

the Board that the action in respect of any of the acts referred to in clause

4.12 could be taken by the Board on its own. The requirement of initiating

action on the basis of complaint received from Supervisor/ Invigilator is

mutually exclusive power vested in the Board. We are also not impressed

by the argument of the petitioners that the only option available to the 151 Board was to refer the matter to the police. Suffice it to observe that the

conclusion reached by the Board in the impugned orders is ascribable to the

acts of commission and omission referred to in clause 4.12 of the Brochure

and that provision also speaks about the Authority of the Board to initiate

action and including to cancel the examination results if the candidates had

indulged in organized mass-copying, and including impersonation. 65. It was argued by the petitioners that the Board had sufficient

time to cancel the entire examination in view of the news items circulated in

public domain and to conduct fresh examination process. In case, it was not

possible to complete the process before 30th September, nothing prevented

the Board to approach the Supreme Court for granting further time. Indeed,

cancellation of entire examination was one of the options available to the

Board and it would have instilled public confidence about the fairness of

action. Similarly, prompt action in such situation was the need of the hour,

which was expected from the Head of the Department. Further, the

cancellation of entire examination may have caused inconvenience to large

section of candidates, but it would have been in larger public interest.

However, as we have already held that merely because more than one option

was available to the Board and it could have resorted to some other option,

does not mean that the impugned decisions are vitiated. Similar plea has

been rejected by the Apex Court in Chairman, All India Railway

Recruitment Board (supra). For the sake of record, it was pointed out by

the counsel for the Board during the argument, that the Board had applied to 152 the Apex Court for extension of time to complete the admission process.

But, the said request was rejected. As aforesaid, assuming that the Board

had not approached the Apex Court and could have resorted to other options

available to the Board, it does not mean that the impugned decisions are

vitiated. The challenge to the impugned decisions will have to be examined

on its own merits. 66. In the case of B. Ramanjini and others Vs. State of Andhra

Pradesh and others,54 the action was challenged on the ground that there

was no legally acceptable material to cancel the examinations. Further, the

Court ought to have cancelled the examinations in all the districts as they

are similarly situated and in not doing so, the Government had acted with

discrimination. While dealing with this contention, the Apex Court in

Paragraphs 7 & 8 observed thus: 8. Further, even if it was not a case of mass
copying or leakage of question papers or such other
circumstance, it is clear that in the conduct of the
examination, a fair procedure has to be adopted. Fair
procedure would mean that the candidates taking part
in the examination must be capable of competing
with each other by fair means. One cannot have an
advantage either by copying or by having a
foreknowledge of the question paper or otherwise. In
such matters wide latitude should be shown to the
Government and the courts should not unduly
interfere with the action taken by the Government
which is in possession of the necessary information
and takes action upon the same. The courts ought not
to take the action lightly and interfere with the same
particularly when there was some material for the
Government to act one way or the other. Further, in
this case, the first examinations were held on 19-4-
1998. The same stood cancelled by the order made on
15-5-1998. Fresh examinations were held on 11-7-
1998 and results have been published on 29-7-1998. Interviews were however held on 29-7-98 (sic 27-8-
1998) in such cases. The events have taken place in
quick succession. The parties have approached the
court after further examinations were held and after
having participated in the second examination. It is
clear that such persons would not be entitled to get
relief at the hands of the court. Even if they had not
participated in the second examination, they need not
have waited till the results had been announced and
then approached the Tribunal or the High Court. In
such cases, it would lead to very serious anomalous
results involving great public inconvenience in
holding fresh examinations for large number of
candidates and in Anantapur District alone nearly
1800 candidates were selected as a result of the
examinations held for the second time. Therefore, we
think, the High Court ought not to have interfered
with the order made by the Government on 15-5- 154 1998 in cancelling the examinations and holding
 fresh examination." (emphasis supplied) 67. Reverting to the contents of the impugned orders dated 9th

October, 2013 and 6th December, 2013, it is noticed that after adverting to

the conditions specified in Chapter IV of the Brochure and clause 4.12

thereof concerning the unfair means and the consequences therefor, it is

noted that after opinion and analysis done by the Committees and taking

overall view of the matter it transpired that the names of candidates

identified by the Committee corresponded with the names of 345 and 70

candidates given in the list of STF of having indulged in organised unfair

means. It then proceeds to note that those candidates were party to the

conspiracy of change of roll numbers and were also in contact of the

accused. It is further noted that the roll numbers assigned to these

candidates were changed after generation of their roll numbers as per the

specified norms. Thus, it confirms that undue benefit has been passed on to

those candidates. The involvement of 415 (345 + 70) candidates out of 876

candidates in the commission of unfair means of allocation of roll numbers

to them along with the roll numbers allocated to candidates from outside

State during the examination is confirmed from the opinion and analysis

done by the Committees and the documents received from the police. The

orders then proceed to highlight the fact that identical pattern emerges in

respect of allocation of roll numbers to 415 (345 + 70) candidates in a well

planned manner along with candidates from outside State, which was not 155 possible while allocating roll numbers by specified random procedure. The

orders then note that the Board being satisfied about the involvement of

(415) identified candidates, who had indulged in unfair means and have

violated the examination regulations, their candidature in the said

examination was being cancelled. 68. The petitioners relied on Mohinder Singh Gill and another vs

The Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi and others55 and Rashmi

Metaliks Limited (supra) to contend that the public orders made by the

public Authority must be considered objectively on the basis of language

used in the order itself. This legal position is unassailable. On the analysis

of the impugned orders, it is obvious that all relevant factors have been

adverted to by the Authority. The correctness of the impugned decisions, no

doubt, can be tested on those factors and the relevancy thereof. At the same

time, we find force in the argument of the respondent-Board that in the

subsequent decision the Apex Court had occasion to consider the decision

in the case of Mohinder Singh Gill (supra) and has held that the decision-

maker can always rely upon subsequent materials to support the decision

already taken when larger public interest is involved. There is no

irregularity in placing reliance on such subsequent report to sustain the

cancellation of examination conducted by the Authority where there has

been serious allegations of mass-copying. [See Abhilash Shiksha Prasar 55 (1978) 1 SCC 405 156 Samiti (supra); and Chairman, All India Railway Recruitment Board (supra) paragraph 45]. 69. Further, the fact that the order refers to the documents received

from the Police does not pre-suppose that it has been issued under dictation

of the STF/Police. The order clearly discloses the basis on which it has been

passed. It is not only founded on the material furnished by the Police but

also on the opinion formed by the two Committees after due enquiry and

other relevant materials. We are not inclined to accept the argument that the

order is passed without application of mind or that it is issued under

dictation of STF/Police. 70. Another shade of the same contention as urged by the

petitioners, is, that the opinion of the Experts Committee was false and

concocted and founded on the communication received from STF dated 27th

September, 2013. For that, we may usefully refer to the communication sent

by STF to the Director of the Board dated 27th September, 2013. The same

reads thus: (emphasis supplied)

On plain reading of this communication, it is noticed that STF had not

referred to the figure of 876 mismatch cases. In point Nos.5 and 6 of the 158 said communication, the query made was generally about the 363 applicants

whose involvement was found in the commission of unfair means during the

examination. In response to this communication, the Director, no doubt, on

the same day, on 27th September, 2013, sent his reply. The said reply reads,

thus : 71. As regards point No.5 and 6, in the context of earlier queries

made by the STF, no doubt, the Director, for the first time, mentioned the

figure of 876 transactions. This information was shared by the Director

obviously on the basis of material available with him, including the Experts

Committee's report dated 7th September, 2013. Indeed, the Experts

Committee report dated 7th September, 2013 mentions different mismatch

numbers. However, that does not mean that the Director was not entitled to

send this response in respect of information which had come to his notice to 160 facilitate investigation by the STF. By no stretch of imagination, therefore, it

can be assumed that the figure of mismatch indicated by the Director was

without any basis much less under the dictation of STF. Presumably, the

Director realizing that the matter needs further examination by the

Computer Experts Committee, an emergent meeting of the Computer

Experts Committee was convened on 30th September, 2013. The Computer

Experts Committee thus met on 30th September, 2013 and analyzed the

entire matter afresh and applying the logic referred to in its Minutes found

mismatch of 876 roll numbers. The Minutes of the Computer Experts

Committee meeting dated 30th September, 2013 are already reproduced in

paragraph No.4 (xii) of this judgment. All that has been done is to identify

the candidates on the basis of minimum mismatch logic instead of broad

mismatch logic applied in the first meeting. On examining the said Minutes,

it is not possible to suggest that the Computer Experts Committee merely

restated the figure mentioned by the Director in communication dated 27th

September, 2013. As a matter of fact, the Director, being overall incharge

and second-in-line in the hierarchy, could have proceeded further on the

basis of his own analysis. However, if the second meeting of the Computer

Experts was convened to re-examine the correct position in the context of

the material available with the Board and the information shared by the

investigating team, that does not mean that the Computer Experts

Committee - consisting of five able, independent and competent officers -

dealt with the matter casually and without any basis. The basis of their 161 analysis can be discerned from the Minutes and opinion submitted by them.

It is also noticed that the information of the Computer Experts Committee

was considered by the Committee of Controllers. In the evaluation report

prepared by the Committee of Controllers, complete analysis has been done,

which reinforces the figure of mismatch of 876 applicants. The evaluation

report has been reproduced in paragraph 4(xvi) of this judgment. Until

paragraph 11, the evaluation report considered all the relevant material, and

including the opinion received from the investigating team. The analysis for

reaching at the minimum mismatch figures can be discerned from paragraph

12 onwards of that report. Considering the background in which

communication was sent by the Director on 27th September, 2013, it is not

possible to countenance the ground urged by the petitioners that the Board

and its officials were acting under dictation of STF. The Board was acting

independently not only on the basis of the information shared by the

investigating team and the queries made by them, but, also on the basis of its

own analysis of the record. By no stretch of imagination, therefore, it is

possible to hold that the Computer Experts Committee's opinion was false

and concocted, as is contended. 72. It will be useful to advert to the communication sent by

Assistant Director General of Police which reads, thus: We will assume that this document was not part of the proposal submitted 163 by the Director to the Chairperson for approval on 8th October, 2013.

However, even this document nowhere suggests that the Board ought to

proceed against the 345 candidates initially identified by the Board and

named in the list appended to impugned order dated 9th October, 2013.

Assuming that this document was not before the Director/Chairperson,

being part of the official record, can be relied by the Board for refuting the

argument of the petitioners that the impugned decisions are issued under

dictation of the STF. 73. We are also not impressed by the argument of the petitioners that

the Board could not have taken any decision in the matter on its own or that

the Board was obliged to submit the examination results to the Council

under the control of the Central Government. Reliance placed by the

petitioners on the provisions of Medical Council of India Act in support of

this submission, in our opinion, is misplaced. It is indisputable that the

admission process in respect of State seats in the medical colleges within the

State is required to be conducted by the State Government either itself or

through any Agency under its control. In respect of such examination, the

Council under the control of Central Government has no role to play.

Similarly, the State Government is not required to submit examination

results declared by it or the Agency under its control appointed for that

purpose to any other Authority. 74. Reliance was placed on the provisions of the Universities Act,

1973 and the Ordinance No.54 issued thereunder to contend that the 164 admission process to any college affiliated with the University in the State

must be conducted in the manner prescribed. The Ordinance has the force of

law. Therefore, the Board constituted by the State Government in exercise

of its executive powers cannot be permitted to deal with the matters

concerning such admissions. This argument does not commend to us. The

controversy in the present proceedings is in respect of pre-admission

examination which is, in no way, governed by the provisions of the Universities Act or the Ordinance framed thereunder. This examination is

required to be conducted by the State Government for allocation of students

to respective colleges. It is only at the stage of taking admission or with

regard to issues arising after taking admission, the provisions of the Universities Act and the Ordinance will come into play. No doubt, in the

present set of cases, the colleges have cancelled the admissions granted to

the petitioners in the respective colleges. The fact that for cancellation of

such admission, procedure has been prescribed in the Ordinance, does not

mean that the consequential action taken by the concerned college on the

basis of the impugned orders can be said to be derogatory or in violation of

any law. In that, indisputably, the admission was granted as a consequence

of the examination conducted by the Board. The Board having found that

the concerned candidate indulged in organised unfair means during the

examination conducted by it and had rendered himself disqualified, annulled

the examination process qua such candidate(s) being fraud played on public

examination process. As a necessary corollary, the admission given to the 165 concerned candidate cannot continue as the entire process had vitiated and

had become non-est in the eyes of law. 75. It was submitted that the action of disqualifying the petitioners

could, at best, be taken by the Director of Medical Education who had

conducted the counselling or by the University where the candidate was

admitted. This submission is also ill-advised. We have already held that the

Board alone could deal with all matters connected with the examination by

it whilst discharging the obligation of the State to conduct such examination.

The fact that the candidate participated in counselling or was admitted in the

College affiliated to the University cannot bestow authority either on the

Director of Medical Education or the University to deal with the matters

pertaining to the examination conducted by the Board. Accordingly, even

this submission does not take the matter any further for the petitioners. 76. It was faintly argued that the conclusion reached by the

Director/Chairperson refers to the finding of some Committee (Samiti)

without describing the name of the two Committees constituted during the

enquiry. In our view, the non-description of the Committee does not mean

that no Committee was constituted nor it would lead to a conclusion that the

finding of the Chairperson/Director was not in conformity with the final

opinion of the two Committees. It is also not a case of the petitioners that

the report/opinion of the two Committees was not at all considered by the

Director/Chairperson before taking the final decision. Accordingly, even this

submission deserves to be rejected. 77. It was argued that there was no material to indicate about the

manner in which analysis was done and by whom, for arriving at the

conclusion of involvement of the named candidate. This submission was

made in absence of the official record which was, however, made available

to the Court during the arguments; and, which we have extensively

reproduced in this judgment, to examine the question about the legality of

the Board and its authority as also the justness and reasonableness of its

decision. In view of the findings on those issues against the petitioners, this

submission will have to be stated to be rejected. 78. It was then contended that the Board ought to have examined

each case independently and recorded separate reasons in the order, as may

be applicable, to the concerned candidates. In other words, it was not open

to cancel the candidature of as many as 415 candidates by one common

order on the same ground. This argument also deserves to be stated to be

rejected. The reason recorded in the order makes it amply clear that

identical pattern had emerged from the allocation of roll numbers to these

415 candidates. If the same pattern adopted by the candidates has been

noticed, no fault can be found with the Board to have taken action against

those candidates by one common order on the finding that it was a

conspiracy and organized way of indulging in unfair means during the

examination. 79. It is then contended that the reason recorded in the impugned

decisions is not in conformity with the opinion of the Committees 167 constituted to inquire into the entire episode. Even this submission does not

commend to us. The reason recorded in the order, in our opinion, in no way

deviates from the opinion and analysis done by the Computer Experts

Committee as well as Committee of Controllers. Even the said Committees

after examining the relevant records concluded about the involvement of the

identified candidates in the commission of unfair means during the

examination, as can be discerned from the evaluation report and the reasons

recorded in the Minutes articulating the opinion of the concerned

Committee. It was open to the Chairman not only to consider the said

reports but also other material referred to in the impugned orders and the

proposal placed before him for taking totality of the circumstances into

account before approving the proposal of cancelling the candidature of the

identified candidates. The fact that the Chairman had not recorded detailed

reasons for approving the proposal, does not mean that his subjective

satisfaction for taking the final decision is vitiated. 80. It was vehemently argued that the material taken into

consideration by the Director and also the Chairman was not legally

admissible and, therefore, the conclusion reached by them is vitiated. This

submission, in our opinion, is misdirected. The question of admissibility of

evidence would arise in a full-fledged criminal trial pending against the

concerned accused. The candidates against whom action has been taken by

the Board may also be named as accused in the pending criminal cases.

Suffice it to observe that the material considered by the Director and later 168 on by the Chairman, by no stretch of imagination, can be said to be

irrelevant for the purposes of enquiring into the matter under consideration.

The material so relied does justify the subjective satisfaction reached by the

Director and the Chairperson. It is not open for the Court to go into the

question of sufficiency of that material. It is not a case of subjective

satisfaction recorded by the Authority without any material whatsoever. 81. Reliance was placed on the case of Mohammed Atik (supra),

to contend that there was no legal evidence before the Committee or the

Chairman to take a drastic decision of cancelling the examination results of

the petitioners. Section 10 of the Evidence Act postulates that common

intention must subsist between the conspirators at the time of making of the

statement. The Court noted that post-arrest statement made by a person to

police, whether by way of confession or otherwise, relating to his

involvement in the conspiracy, would not fall within the ambit of Section 10. Relying on this observation, it was argued that even in the present case,

the STF was relying on the statements made after arrest of the co-

conspirator. This argument does not commend to us. The action in the

present case is not singularly based on the statement of co-conspirator

recorded by the STF. The Board after due analysis of the entire material

was more than convinced about the involvement of the candidates whose

roll numbers were mismatched. The Board finally decided to take action

only against those candidates whose name also appeared in the STF list.

Reliance was also placed on the decision in the case of Varkey Joseph 169 (supra) to contend that suspicion is not the substitute for proof. It is,

however, well established position that the quality of evidence required in a

criminal trial is markedly different than the material to answer the issue in

the inquiry relating to unfair practice during the conduct of examination. Reliance was placed on the decision of the Apex Court in the case of V.C.

Shukla (supra) to contend that the entry in the excel sheet depicting the

name of the candidate or for that matter any further record recovered from

the alleged conspirators cannot be the basis to proceed against the

petitioners. We have already dealt with this aspect while considering another

shade of the same contention. The material that could be considered for

taking impugned decisions cannot be discarded on the argument that it is not

admissible. Admissibility of those documents may be relevant in the

criminal proceedings pending against the petitioners. 82. The argument of the petitioners that the Board ought to have

adhered to the legal parameters while dealing with the case involving

circumstantial evidence. We have already rejected similar argument on the

finding that the admissibility of documents recovered during the

investigation and statements recorded by the investigating team will have to

be tested in the criminal trial pending against the candidates. On the other

hand, in the enquiry, such as the present one, the Board was justified in

proceeding on the basis of indisputable circumstances, pointing finger

towards the involvement of the concerned candidate and record its

subjective satisfaction in that behalf. 83. The attempt of the petitioners was to question the justness and

reasonableness of the process adopted by the Board on the argument that

relevant facts have been completely disregarded by the two Committees as

well as the Director and Chairman. Inasmuch as, 20 petitioners secured less

marks than the scorers. Moreover, two scorers were absent. Further, the

petitioners had excellent academic record and by no standards, they would

take aid of scorers for enhancing their prospects. These crucial facts would

go to show that the petitioners/genuine candidates have not indulged in

unfair means at all. Similar argument has been rejected by the Apex Court

in the case of Abhilash Shiksha Prasar Samiti (supra). The Court held

that such matters cannot be the basis to doubt the judgment of the institution

(read 'Board' in this case). 84. It was also argued that the conclusion recorded in the impugned

orders is based on fact which has not been inquired into. In that, whether the

candidate, in fact, indulged in copying, ought to have been ascertained in the

first place. That fact cannot be assumed. The sitting plan of the candidates

clearly indicates the safe distance between the two candidates. Moreover,

the question papers distributed to the candidates sitting in horizontal or

vertical row were completely different format. In other words, the

candidates having engaged in copying from the answer-sheets of the scorer

during the examination is completely ruled out. This submission will have to

be rejected for the reasons already recorded. The Supreme Court has

rejected similar plea while considering the enquiry into mass copying 171 resorted to by the candidates. Further, in the case of Bagleshwar Prasad (supra) in paragraph 11 and 12 the Court observed as follows:- (emphasis supplied) 173 Indeed, the observations in this decision are in the context of enquiry

conducted against the individual candidate and not a case of mass copying.

In the case of organized commission of unfair means during the

examination, as observed earlier, may not necessitate holding of enquiry

against individual candidates. This authority is also useful on the

proposition about the circumspection to be observed while exercising

jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India by the High Court.

In a given case the impugned order may not refer to any evidence at all, that

order can be supported by the Authority on available material and

considered by the Authority. In the present case, the impugned orders have

noted supporting evidence and material considered by the Authority. 85. It was argued that the fact that name of some of the candidates

has been found in the material recovered by the police during the

investigation cannot be the basis to take such a drastic action against the

candidate until the charge is proved against him by the criminal court. In the

first place, more or less similar argument advanced by the petitioners has

already been considered and rejected on the finding that the standard of

proof in the two proceedings is qualitatively different. Moreover, the civil

action on the basis of same set of facts in respect of which criminal case has

been registered and pending against the petitioners can be no impediment.

Both proceedings are required to be taken to its logical end in accordance

with law and are mutually exclusive. For the same reason, we reject the

other argument of the petitioners that before taking final decision the Board 174 ought to have factually ascertained the relevant facts by adopting

inquisitorial inquiry as to who had indulged in the change of roll numbers to

benefit selective candidates and whether the concerned candidate himself

was responsible for that situation. 86. The next moot question is: whether the impugned action against

the petitioners is vitiated for not issuing show-cause notice indicating the

allegations against them on case to case basis and of giving opportunity of

being heard to respond thereto? In other words, the impugned action is

vitiated because of abridgment of principles of natural justice? We may

usefully refer to the case of Aligarh Muslim University (supra), where the

Court considered the applicability of principle of natural justice. In

paragraph 22 of this decision, relying on its earlier judgment in the case of S.L. Kapoor v. Jagmohan56 , the Court restated the two exceptions,

namely, "if upon admitted or indisputable facts only one conclusion was

possible", in such a case, the principle that breach of natural justice was in

itself prejudice, would not apply. In other words, if no other conclusion was

possible on admitted or indisputable facts, it is not necessary to quash the

order which was passed in violation of natural justice. In paragraph 22, the

Court after adverting to the authorities on the point concluded that in the

ultimate analysis it may depend on the facts of a particular case. Finally, in

paragraph 25 the Court relying on the decision in the case of S.L. Kapoor (supra) held that on the admitted indisputable facts - only one view is

possible. In that, no prejudice can be said to have been caused though notice 56 AIR 1981 SC 136 175 was not issued to the respondent. In yet another case of Jalgaon Municipal

Council (supra), the Apex Court, in paragraph 32, restated the principle

that in exceptional situation the ground regarding violation of principle of

natural justice cannot be pressed into service. Similar view has been taken in

the case of M.C. Mehta (supra). In para 21 of this decision, the Court

observed that if on the admitted or indisputable position, only one

conclusion is possible and permissible, the Court need not issue a writ

merely because there is violation of principle of natural justice. The Apex

Court in the case of Jalgaon Municipal Council (supra) in paragraph 32

observed thus: In the case of Secretary, Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential

Educational Institutions (supra), the Apex Court in paragraph 7 observed

that by now, it is well-settled principle of law that the principles of natural

justice cannot be applied in a straitjacket formula. Their application depends

upon the facts and circumstances of each case. Further, to sustain the

complaint of the violation of principles of natural justice one must establish

that he was prejudice due to non-observance of the principles of natural

justice. 87. In the present case, we are in agreement with the stand taken by the

Board that the matter of this nature - where identical pattern of commission

of organised unfair means emerges, it would be nothing short of mass-

copying and, therefore, could be dealt with together by a common order and

without issuing notice to respective candidate. Reliance has been justly

placed on the decision of the Apex Court in the case of Chairman, All

India Railway Recruitment Board (supra), to buttress this submission.

Indeed, counsel for the petitioners tried to distinguish the said decision on

the ground that it was not a case of candidates indulging in unfair means in

different examination centers, but pertaining to one examination center.

That argument does not commend to us. For, if this argument were to

be taken forward, it would then be argued that it would be a case of mass-

copying only if it takes place in all the examination halls in the given center

and not in one or some of the halls in that center. There is no 177 basis to make such distinction. In our opinion from the indisputable facts

referred to by the Board, it is noticed that same racketeers had organized the

change of roll numbers for all the identified candidates in a well planned

manner to ensure that the scorer from outside the State is allocated seat in

front of the genuine candidate. That is reinforced from the Chart reproduced

in paragraph 20 (xii). It makes it amply clear that each of the scorer was

sitting in the front seat. Further, in respect of each case, matching correct

answers as also wrong answers, are of very high percentage. That cannot be

a co-incidence. Moreover, all the scorers and the concerned candidate were

in contact with the same persons who had organized the change of roll

numbers for them through the same source (officials of VYAPAM). The

scorers had filled the online form through common web portal facilitated by

the racketeers. The fact that they were sitting in different examination

centers, in no way, makes the case less mass-copying or different from

mass-copying done in one examination center. Thus, non-issuance of show

cause notice to individual candidate before passing the impugned decisions

will not vitiate the impugned decisions. The petitioners would, however,

rely on the decisions of the Apex Court in the case of Olga Tellis (supra)

and Priya Gupta (supra) to contend that it is not open to the Authority to

assert that no fruitful purpose would be served by issuing show cause notice

and especially when the action entails in not only civil consequences but

also criminal action by registration of criminal case on that count. Reliance

was also placed on the decision of Apex court in the case of Charanlal 178 Sahu (supra) in support of the argument that post decisional hearing would

be impermissible in the fact situation of the present case. The principle

stated in those decisions will have to be distinguished on the principle

expounded in the cases of mass-copying by the Apex Court. 88. In the case of Chandra Singh and others Vs. State of

Rajasthan and another57, in paragraph 43 while relying on its earlier

decision in the case of Champalal Binani Vs. CIT58 , the Apex Court

opined that while exercising extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 or

32 of the Constitution, the Court may not strike down an illegal order

although it would be lawful to do so. It went on to hold that in a given case,

the High Court may refuse to extend the benefit of a discretionary relief to

the applicant. Further, the discretionary jurisdiction need not be exercised in

a case where the impugned judgment is found to be erroneous if by reason

thereof substantial justice is being done. In the same paragraph, the Apex

Court referred to yet another decision of the Apex Court in S.D.S. Shipping

(P) Ltd. Vs. Jay Container Service Co. (P) Ltd.59 wherein it is held that

relief can be denied, inter alia, when it would be opposed to public policy or

in a case where quashing of an illegal order would revive another illegal

one. 89. Similarly, in the case of Maharaja Chintamani Saran Nath

Shahdeo Vs. State of Bihar and others60, in paragraph 11 to 15, the Court

57 (2003) 6 SCC 545
58 (1971) 3 SCC 20
59 (2003) 4 SCC 44
60 (1999) 8 SCC 16 179 observed thus: (emphasis supplied) 90. Reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for the Board

on the decision of the Apex Court in the case of Gadde Venkateswara Rao

Vs. Government of Andhra Pradesh and others61. In paragraph 17 the

Court observed thus: 61 AIR 1966 SC 828 181 In substance, the Court upheld the decision of the High Court which had

declined to exercise extraordinary discretionary power in the fact situation

of that case, although the orders of the Government were not legally passed. 91. It was argued that the impugned decisions passed by the

Director for and on behalf of the Board were in the nature of orders passed

while discharging the quasi judicial function. For that reason the Board was

obliged to adhere to minimum principles of natural justice. This argument

will have to be rejected on the view already taken that in the case of mass

copying it was open to the Board to proceed against all the candidates

together by one common order; and for the same reason no show cause

notice or hearing is required to be given to each candidate separately who

have been found to be party to mass copying activity. 92. In the case of Ghanshyam Das Gupta (supra), the question

before the Apex Court was whether the Authority acting under a statute,

when it is silent, has the duty to act judicially will depend on the express

provisions of the statute read along with the nature of the rights affected, the

manner of the disposal provided, the objective criterion if any to be adopted,

the effect of the decision on the person affected and other indicia afforded

by the statue. The Apex Court opined that the Committee has to act

judicially in the matter particularly as it has to decide objectively certain

facts which may seriously affect the rights and careers of the examinees,

before it can take any action in exercise of its power. The Apex Court

observed that if serious effects follow from the decision of the Committee 182 and serious nature of misconduct which may be found in some cases, the

Committee must be held to act judicially. The committee while exercising

such powers is acting quasi judicial and the principles of natural justice

which require that the other party, (namely the examinee) must be heard will

apply to the proceedings before the Committee. In this case, however, the

examination result of only three students was cancelled by the Board for

their individual action and they were debarred from appearing the

examination. The aggrieved students filed writ petitions challenging that

action of Board inter alia being in violation of principles of natural justice.

It was not a case of mass copying as in this case. 93. In the case of Kumari Chitra Shrivastava (supra), the Apex

Court restated that the Board discharges quasi judicial functions and is

bound to follow the principles of natural justice. Even in this case, the action

taken by the Board was against one individual student. Her examination

results were withheld as the Board was of the opinion that she was ineligible

to appear in the examination because of deficit in keeping attendance. The

Court rejected the arguments of the Board that no useful purpose would be

served if the Board was to issue show-cause notice to the student. 94. As aforesaid, reliance was also placed on the decision of the

Apex Court in Olga Tellis (supra) which rejected the argument that no

useful purpose would be served by issuing notice. Paragraph 47 of the said

decision , the Apex Court rejected the argument that notice need not be given

of a proposed action because; there can possibly be no answer to it. The 183 Court observed that justice must not only be done but must manifestly be

seen to be done. All these decisions are in respect of individual action and

not a case of mass copying, where the issuance of show cause notice can be

dispensed with on the principle thereto. 95. Reliance was also placed on the decision of the Single Judge of

Rajasthan High Court in the case of Indra Methi (supra), which had

followed the decision in the case of Ghanshyam Das Gupta (supra) and

held that principle of natural justice applies when it is a case of cancellation

of examination results, consequent in an inquiry before domestic Tribunal,

inasmuch as the examinees must be apprised of material against them which

is being used in such inquiry. Again this decision will be of no avail to the

fact situation of the present case involving mass copying in public

examination. 96. In the case of Shekhar Ghosh (supra), the Apex Court has

expounded that the principle of audi alteram paterm for right to hearing and

pre-decisional hearing is warranted when the decision involves civil

consequences. The Court has held that the requirements to comply with the

principles of natural justice would vary from case to case. No doubt, in the

present case, the petitioners on account of impugned decisions of the Board

would be visited with civil consequences; and also entail in criminal action

because of the complaint filed by the Board. At the same time, keeping in

mind the exposition of the Apex Court in the recent decision in the case of Chairman, All India Railway Recruitment Board (supra), Ku. Shashi 184 Tomer (supra) and other decisions adverted on the point, when it is a case

of mass copying such as the present one, the question of giving opportunity

of hearing to each individual candidate is not required provided the Board

is in a position to substantiate the necessity for resorting to such action. 97. In the case of Subhas Chandra Sinha (supra), the Apex Court

opined that from the Scheme of the Act under consideration, in an

emergency, the power of the Chairman were co-terminus with that of the

Board who can take action and later report to the Board. Action so taken by

the Chairman , in that case , when reported to the Board, was fully endorsed

by the Board. The action of cancellation of the examination at a particular

centre was taken by the Chairman. The Court then went on consider the

question whether in such a situation giving an opportunity to the

examinees/candidates was imperative. The Apex Court opined that it was

not necessary for the Board to give an opportunity to the candidates if the

examination as a whole were being cancelled because of unfair means were

adopted on large scale at the concerned centre. The Apex Court found that in

comparison to the answer books showed such a remarkable agreement in the

answers which left no doubt that the students had assistance from an outside

source. In this judgment, the Apex Court referred to the decision in the case

of Ghanshyam Das Gupta (supra) and has explained the same in

paragraph Nos.12 to 15, which read thus: (emphasis supplied) 98. In the case of Biswa Ranjan Sahoo (supra) while dealing with

the case of mass malpractice, the principles of natural justice are required to

be followed or otherwise the Court in paragraph 3 observed thus: 99. In the case of Abhilash Shiksha Prasar Samiti (supra) while

dealing with the case involving students entering the examination hall with

books and copying materials were hand in glove with the officials, the Apex 188 Court confirmed the decision of the Board to treat the examination as

cancelled. The Court observed thus: (emphasis supplied) 100. In the case of K.S. Gandhi (supra), the Court was dealing with

a case where show cause notices were issued to the candidates for being

privy to the fraudulent fabrication. It was not a case involving the question

as to whether show cause notice ought to be given to all candidates even if

it were to be a case of mass copying. We have already adverted to the 189 decisions of the Apex Court directly on the point. The Court considered

the validity of the notification issued by the Board in the context of

procedural irregularities under the provisions of the Act, Regulations and

including violation of principles of natural justice. The Court noted that the

students involved at the examination of secondary education are by and

large minors but that by itself would not be a factor to hold that the students

were unfairly treated at an inquiry conducted during the domestic inquiry. It

also dealt with the legal position about the standard of proof in the domestic

inquiry. Even in that case , the candidates indulged in unfair practice gave

wrong answers to particular questions in the same way in which the answers

were given by another candidate who was having consecutive number. The

Court adverted to the exposition in the case of Bagleshwar Prasad (supra).

While rejecting the contention of the candidates, in paragraph 26, the Court

noted that in the matter of adoption of unfair means direct evidence may

sometimes be available but cases may arise where direct evidence is not

available and the question will have to be considered in the light of the

probabilities and circumstantial evidence. This is the problem with the

educational-institution. The Court went on to say that the Court should be

slow to interfere with the decisions of domestic tribunals appointed by the

education bodies like universities. Further, in dealing with the validity of the

impugned order passed by the Universities under Article 226 the High Court

is not sitting in an appeal over the decision on this question. 101. In the case of Surendra Nath Pandey (supra), which was a 190 case of suspected mass-copying, the Apex Court observed that the purpose

of rules of Natural Justice is to ensure that the order causing civil

consequences is not passed arbitrarily and it is not that in every case there

must be an opportunity of oral hearing. The Apex Court observed thus: (emphasis supplied) 102. In the present case, we find force in the stand taken by the

respondent-Board that from the indisputable facts referred to in paragraphs

20(xv) of the judgment, it was obviously a case of organized mass-copying

and commission of unfair means during the examination. 103. Even in the case of Anand Kumar Pandey (supra), the Court

considered similar challenge in respect of candidates indulged in mass-

copying during the examination. In paragraph 9, the Court observed thus: 104. The decision of the learned Single Judge of the Kerala High

Court in the case of Reshmi George (supra), on which reliance has been

placed by the petitioners, was obviously a converse situation where the

learned Single Judge of that Court declined to question the opinion of the

Board rejecting the challenge to the examination conducted by it on the

allegation that large scale mass-copying and malpractice was committed

during the said examination. We do not intend to examine the correctness of

the said view taken by the Kerala High Court which obviously was in the

fact situation of that case. In the present case, the indisputable facts

emerging from the record justify the action taken by the Board. 105. We may now refer to the decision cited by the counsel for the

petitioners in the case of Kumari T.P. Roshana (supra). We fail to

understand as to how the principle stated in this decision has any application

to any of the issues arising before us. In that case, the question was

concerning reservation and the standard in the matter of syllabus,

examination and evaluation obtaining in different Universities that varying

standards of their own is productive of inequality. We are not concerned

with that issue in the present case. 106. Having answered the argument under consideration in the 194 negative, for the same reason, argument of the petitioners that any action

which results in civil consequences, ex post facto hearing is not permissible,

does not deserve consideration. Inasmuch as, having found that issuance of

show-cause notice in a case of this nature or of giving hearing to individual

candidate was not required, we need not dilate further on that argument. 107. Some of the petitioners argued that their past academic record

was very brilliant and keeping that in mind, no reasonable person would be

inclined to even think that such candidate would indulge in unfair means

during the examination, that too by engaging a scorer who secured less

marks than the candidate. In the present case, however, there were clinching

circumstances to indicate that the roll numbers of the concerned petitioner

was changed in a well planned manner after generation of the roll number.

This is a common pattern noticed in respect of each of these candidates.

Further, the fact that there is provision in the Brochure permitting the

candidate to apply for change of roll number, does not belie the opinion and

subjective satisfaction of the Board. No explanation is forthcoming as to

why the roll numbers allotted to these petitioners were not in conformity

with the norm of roll numbers specified by the Board. Besides, it is noticed

that in every case, the matching correct as well as wrong answers of both

were of high percentage. 108. Even the argument of the petitioners that there was no evidence

to even remotely suggest that they were not responsible for the change of

roll numbers or had applied for that purpose after generation of their roll 195 number, also deserves to be rejected. The opinion reached by the

Committees, and as found favour with the Director and the Chairperson, is

that the roll numbers of the identified candidates were altered after

generation of their roll numbers. Further, their link with the racketeers and

conspirators was also noticed from the documents made available by the

Police. There was no reason for the officials of VYAPAM who have been

arrested as accused to tamper with the roll numbers of selective candidates

nor is any explanation forthcoming as to why the name of that candidate is

found in the documents recovered from the accused persons during the

investigation. Suffice it to observe that the impugned orders passed by the

Director with the approval of the Chairperson to take action against the

identified 415 candidates cannot be said to be arbitrary, unjust or

unreasonable. 109. For the reasons already recorded, we have no hesitation in

rejecting the argument of the petitioners that instead of taking action against

the petitioners on the basis of suspicion, the Board ought to cancel the entire

examination and in any case conducted fresh examination for all the

affected students to do substantial justice to them. It is not possible to issue

such direction keeping in mind the dictum of the Apex Court in the case of Mriduldhar (Minor ) (supra), which mandates that the admission process

to professional courses ought to be completed before 30th September [also

see decision of the Apex Court in the case of Priya Gupta (supra)]. Issuing

direction to the Board to conduct fresh examination for the students against 196 whom action has been taken would mean that the Board will have to initiate

the admission process for these candidates after expiry of the stated period.

That cannot be countenanced. Notably, the impugned orders do not

disqualify the concerned candidate from appearing in the future pre-

admission examination for professional courses, or the following academic

year. What follows from the earlier discussion is that the action against the

identified 415 candidates is not on the basis of suspicion, as is contended,

but, on the basis of clinching circumstances warranting such action in public

interest. Besides this, nothing more is required to be said about this

contention. 110. That takes us to the argument of the petitioners that the Board

could have reacted promptly by postponing the date of examination as soon

as the commission of unfair means by large number of candidates came in

public domain in the local newspapers or to cancel the entire examination

or to withhold the results of the concerned candidate. That cannot be the

basis to undo the impugned orders which have been validly passed in public

interest. No doubt, the Board initiated action only in September by

constituting Computer Experts Committee and later on the Committee of

Controllers to enable the Chairman to take a final decision. That does not

mean that the impugned decision is invalid much less vitiated in any

manner. Inaction to take recourse to other measures cannot vitiate the

impugned decisions. 111. It was vehemently argued that once the candidates were allowed

to participate in the counselling and later on also secured admission in

Medical Colleges, the Board was not competent to take any action against

such candidate. This argument is another shade of argument of the

petitioners already considered and rejected. To wit, the Board has become

functus officio after declaration of the result, which argument has been

considered by us and rejected. For the same reasons even this argument does

not commend to us. 112. It was then contended that even if the conditions specified in the

Brochure were to be taken as it is, it in no way authorizes the Board to take

such a drastic action, in particular, after declaration of results of

examination. For that, reliance was placed on the opening part of Chapter IV

and clause 4.12 and 4.22. Once again this is another shade of the argument

of the authority of the Board to initiate action after declaration of results,

which we have already considered and rejected. In our opinion, in absence

of any express regulation having the force of law or, for that matter,

executive instructions, circumscribing the authority of the Board, the Board

constituted by executive order to discharge the obligation of the State had

complete authority to deal with all matters connected with the examination

and incidental thereto and including after declaration of the results of the

examination conducted by it. No other Authority has been constituted under

any law to deal with those matters. If the foundation for admission is

fraudulent, which fact has been found by the Board after analyzing of all the 198 relevant materials and the opinion of two Committees, the decision taken by

the Board in public interest cannot be undone. It necessarily follows that

cancellation of admission of the petitioners by the concerned college will

also have to be upheld. For, all actions based on such fraudulent

examination result will be non-est in the eyes of law. 113. It was then contended that the Director as well as the

Chairperson before taking final decision has completely disregarded the fact

that some of the petitioners did not even qualify the examination to get

admission in Government college. We fail to understand as to how this fact

would eclipse the clinching circumstances taken into account by the

Director and the Chairperson indicating the involvement of the concerned

candidate as emerging from the relevant records taken into account for

reaching the final conclusion. 114. It was contended that the Board could have taken action only

after the Supervisor or Invigilator in the Hall had reported about the

involvement of the concerned candidate about copying. This submission is

buttressed on the basis of clause 4.12 of the Brochure. We are in agreement

with the submission of the respondent-Board that this submission is founded

on complete misreading of the terms of Brochure. The requirement of

complaint received from Supervisor or Invigilator in the examination hall is

in respect of matters other than the acts referred to, inter alia, in Sub-clauses

(Ka), (Gha), (Da), (Cha) of clause 4.12. The act of change of roll number,

after it was generated, and the circumstance of substantial percentage of 199 right and wrong answers given by the scorer and the candidate are matching

and the indisputable facts emerging from the documents made available by

the Police, it was clearly a case covered by one or the other sub-clauses

referred to in clause 4.12. As the theory propounded by the respondent-

Board that all this has happened as a large scale conspiracy, is plausible one,

even the involvement of concerned Supervisor or Invigilator or officials at

the concerned examination centers cannot be ruled out. Suffice it to observe

that the existence of other clinching circumstances regarding organised

unfair means during the examination were sufficient for the Board to

proceed in the matter. Nay, it was the bounden duty of the Board to do so in

public interest even in absence of any report from the Supervisors or

Invigilators. 115. As regards the argument of the petitioners that the impugned

decision of the Board dated 9th December, 2013 is questionable because it

takes action only against 70 candidates out of 92 candidates identified in the

list submitted by the STF, also does not merit consideration. Inasmuch as,

the counsel for the Board has clarified that the record indicates that the

remaining 22 candidates were already named in the list of candidates against

whom action was taken in terms of impugned decision dated 9th October,

2013. That factual position is reinforced from the finding of the Committee

of Controllers. In view thereof, even this argument will have to be rejected. 116. The argument of the petitioners that the Board ought to have

also taken into account the CCTV footage to substantiate the fact as to 200 whether the concerned candidate was or was not involved in unfair means

during the examination, also deserves to be stated to be rejected for the

reasons already noted that the Board acted on the basis of clinching and

indisputable circumstances clearly pointing finger to the involvement of the

identified candidates. Assuming that CCTV cameras were fitted in the

concerned examination hall, non-consideration of that material cannot be the

basis to hold that other clinching material considered by the Board was not

sufficient to record the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the Director and

approved by the Chairperson. Our attention was also invited to the decision

of the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Roupshanara Momtaz (supra). In that case the examination of the

candidate was cancelled on the finding of having committed malpractice.

The Court held that the malpractice must be detected in the examination hall

before answer book is deposited. The student cannot be punished for act of

somebody else whose identity is not known. Suffice it to observe that this

was not a case of organized mass-copying indulged by the large number of

candidates as in the present case but of individual action against one

candidate. We have already dealt with this aspect in extenso in the earlier

paragraphs. Hence, we do not deem it necessary to dilate on this decision

any further. 117. As regards the argument that the enquiry conducted by the

Board by constituting two Committees was only farce of enquiry and was to

justify cancellation of examination results of meritorious candidates on the 201 basis of unsubstantiated information furnished by the STF, also deserves to

be negatived. We have already noticed that the Computer Experts

Committee analyzed the computer data available with the Board to ascertain

the logic for allocation of roll numbers and the reasons for such mismatch.

The final decision is not founded purely on the basis of material furnished

by the STF. The material furnished by STF has been used only to reassure

that action is being taken against deserving candidates and not to prejudice

bona fide candidates. We find no merits in the submission that the

constitution of Computer Experts Committee or for that matter the

Committee of Controllers was a farce, as is contended. Notably, no

allegation of bias or mala fide is alleged against any of the members of the

two Committees nor the analysis done by them has been demolished in any

manner. The process adopted by the concerned Committee having remained

unchallenged and being sufficient to initiate action, the argument under

consideration deserves to be rejected. 118. The argument of the petitioners that the Board after declaration

of results could not have taken any other action, but, only reported the

matter to the local police, is essentially founded on clause 4.22 of the

Brochure. That clause deals with the scope of function of the Board. It does

not circumscribe the authority of the Board to cancel the candidature of the

candidate after declaration of examination results, if it is found that the

candidate had indulged in unfair means during the said examination.

Accordingly, even this submission does not take the matter any further. 202 119. The other issue raised by the petitioners is on the basis of

provisions of the Act of 2007 (II). That is an Act for the regulation of

education and fixation of fee in private educational institutions. The

Admission Rules under that Act have been framed in the year 2008 which

provide for conducting of common entrance test and the procedure for

admission including the circumstances in which the admission can be

cancelled. The provisions contained in the said Act can have no application

to the enquiry in connection with pre-admission examination for

professional courses conducted by the Board. For, the examination referred

to in the Admission Rules of 2008 is independent and different than the

common entrance test conducted by the Board. That test is in connection

with the management quota seats to be filled by private colleges. The State

Government conducts common entrance test to fill in the quota of seats on

merits (Government seats) in the Private Professional Colleges, on the basis

of entrance test conducted by it for that purpose. 120. In the case of Modern Dental College and Research Centre

and others Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and others62, the Apex Court

directed that the admissions in the private unaided medical/dental colleges

in the State of Madhya Pradesh will be done by first excluding 15% NRI

seats (which can be filled up by the private institutions as per para 131 of P.A. Inamdar Vs. State of Maharashtra63 , and allotting half of the 85%

seats for admission to the undergraduate and post graduate courses to be

62 (2009) 7 SCC 751
63 (2005) 6 SCC 537 203 filled in by an open competitive examination by the State Government. The

remaining half seats could be filled by the Association of the Private

Medical and Dental Colleges by holding separate entrance examination for

that purpose. 121. Therefore, the fact that the admission is taken in a private

medical college on the basis of examination conducted by the Board does

not mean that the illegality and fraud committed by the candidate during the

examination conducted by the Board can be overlooked. Neither the private

medical college nor any other Agency can enquire into the issues

concerning the examination conducted by the Board. The Board is the sole

repository of that power. The provision regarding cancellation of admission

in private medical colleges in the Act of 2007(II) and Admission Rules,

2008 are in connection with the admission granted against the management

seats on the basis of examination conducted under the said Act & Rules. The

counsel for the respondent-Board, on instructions, submitted that each of the

petitioners, who have taken admission in private medical college and have

filed writ petitions have taken such admission against Government seats on

the basis of the examination conducted by the Board. That submission was

countered by the counsel for the concerned petitioners. We, however, have

no reason to doubt the correctness of the stand taken by the Board. We have

no manner of doubt that the private colleges have cancelled the admission of

the concerned petitioner(s) because they were admitted against Government

seats on the basis of the examination results of the Board. No official 204 document has been brought to our notice to indicate to the contrary. Even

so, we would observe that if the petitioner(s) herein have been admitted in

Private College(s) against the "management seat" after qualifying the

examination conducted under the Admission Rules, 2008; "and not on the

basis of the results of pre-admission examination for professional courses

conducted by the Board" to fill in the Government seats - that cannot be

disturbed even if he had appeared in both the examinations - one conducted

by the Board and the other by the Agency for giving admission against

management quota. In other words, the impugned orders cannot be the basis

to cancel their admission, taken against the management seats on the basis

of the examination results of examination conducted under the Admission

Rules of 2008. This will have to be kept in mind by the appropriate

Authority on case to case basis. We are not expressing any final opinion in

respect of that factual aspect. We, however, reiterate that if the admission to

private medical college has been given on the basis of "examination

conducted by the Board" qua the Government seats, due to upholding the

decision of the Board of annulling the candidature of the concerned

candidate for that examination in terms of this order, cancellation of

admission by the private medical college of that student will be

unexceptionable. 122. In view of the conclusion reached by us, it is unnecessary to

dilate on the argument of the petitioners that the impugned orders will have

to be set aside as a whole and not conditionally. Reliance was placed on the 205 decision of the Apex Court in the case of Satyabrata Biswas (supra) to

contend that the Court after setting aside the impugned decisions must direct

the parties to restore status quo ante bellum. As aforesaid, we need not

dilate on this question any further. For, that would have become necessary

only after setting aside of the impugned decisions, which we are not inclined

to do. Relying on the observations of the Apex Court in the case of Ram

Kumar (supra)¸ it was contended that the petitioners be allowed to

continue the course and be made subject to the outcome of the criminal case

pending against them. If in the criminal case they were to be acquitted, it

would presuppose that the action taken against them by the Board was

inappropriate and unjust. We are not impressed by this argument. Inasmuch

as, even if the petitioners were to be acquitted in the criminal case pending

against them, that would not by itself vitiate the action taken by the Board

on the basis of indisputable facts and circumstances. We have also noticed

the settled legal position that the two proceedings are mutually exclusive

and the quality of evidence/material to proceed in the matter in both these

proceedings is markedly different. Hence, this argument will be of no avail

to the petitioners. 123. We hold that the opinion of the Board officials and the reasons

recorded in the impugned decisions should not prejudice the petitioners in

the criminal action pending against them in any manner. That proceedings

will have to be proceeded on its own merits in accordance with law, and

including uninfluenced by the observations in this judgment or dismissal of 206 the writ petitions. That is because, the present petitions are in respect of

 cause of action arising from civil action flowing from the impugned

 decisions passed by the Board in which the standard of proof is different. On

 the other hand, any criminal action against the petitioners and similarly

 placed persons will have to be tested on the basis of the legal and admissible

 evidence brought on record by the prosecution or by the defence. 124. While parting, we may impress upon the State Government to

 take expeditious steps for establishment of the Board in terms of the

 provisions of the Act of 2007 (I). We hope and trust that the State

 Government will do the needful in that regard with utmost dispatch. 125. We also place on record our word of appreciation for the able

 assistance given by all the advocates who appeared before us in these

 matters. 126. For the reasons recorded hitherto, all the petitions and interim

 applications therein are dismissed with the abovenoted observations.