This is first application filed by the applicant under Section 439 of the

 Cr.P.C. for grant of bail relating to FIR No. 69 of 2024 registered at Police
 Station Lahar, District Bhind (M.P.) for the offence under Sections 376(2)(n) , 354(ga) , 450 , 506 , 34 of IPC & Sections 67 , 67-A of IT Act. 2. Learned counsel for the applicant argued that the applicant is innocent
 and has been falsely implicated. It is further argued that the prosecutrix is a
 major married woman and there is delay of six months in lodging the FIR.
 Allegedly, the applicant/accused made obscene video while prosecutrix was Signature Not Verified taking bath in her bathroom and thereafter he started blackmailing on account Signed by: VIPIN KUMAR AGRAHARI Signing time: 30-05-2024 10:30:04 AM 2 of which prosecutrix made various video call to applicant/accused. It is further
 argued that entire prosecution story is highly improbable because video was
 made inside the house of prosecutrix. The prosecutrix herself made video call
 to applicant/accused. She never informed her husband or family members about
 the repeated incident of alleged sexual assault. Further argument is that at the
 most, this is a case of consensual relationship. The case is not supported by
 medical evidence. The applicant is in custody since 11.03.2024. The applicant
 has no criminal antecedents and he is permanent resident of District Bhind
 (M.P.) and there is no possibility of his absconsion or tampering with the
 prosecution evidence. Hence, he prays for grant of bail to the applicant. 3. Per contra, learned counsel for the State vehemently opposed the bail
 application and prayed for its dismissal. 4. Heard learned counsel for the rival parties and perused the case diary
 available on record. 5. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, but without
 expressing any opinion on merits of the case, this application is allowed and it is
 directed that the applicant be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond in
 the sum of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand Only) with one solvent
 surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court. 6. This order will remain operative subject to compliance of the following
 conditions by the applicant:- 3 ) The applicant will not indulge themselves in extending
 inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with Signature Not Verified Signed by: VIPIN KUMAR AGRAHARI Signing time: 30-05-2024 10:30:04 AM 3 the facts of the case so as to dissuade him/her from
 disclosing such facts to the Court or to the Police Officer, as
 the case may be; 4) The applicant will not commit any other offence or will
 not repeat the offence in future. In case, if he/she is found
 involving in the offence of same nature, this bail order shall
 stand cancelled automatically without further reference to the
 Bench. 5) The applicant will not seek unnecessary adjournments
 during the trial; and
 6 ) The applicant will not leave India without previous
 permission of the trial Court/Investigating Officer, as the case
 may be. 7. Learned State counsel is directed to send an e-copy of this order to
 the Station House Officer of the concerned Police Station for information and
 necessary action. 8. E- copy of this order be sent to the trial Court concerned for
 compliance, if possible, by the office of this Court. Certified copy as per rules. (SUNITA YADAV)
 JUDGE
 vpn Signature Not Verified Signed by: VIPIN KUMAR AGRAHARI Signing time: 30-05-2024 10:30:04 AM