1. The Court :- Both the appeals and the applications are taken up

together and disposed of by this common order. 2. The order passed by the learned Single Judge on 25th September,

2023 and 29th September, 2023 respectively are subject matter of challenge in

this appeal. 3. The applicant is not a party in the writ petition. The applicant has

filed an application for leave to prefer an appeal against both the orders on the

ground that the learned Single Judge has assumed the role of a court of enquiry

and/or a fact finding commission for the purpose of providing and/or returning 3 recommendation on alleged incident and/or offence which is clearly violation of

the basic tenets of a court monitored investigation. 4. The grievance appears to be certain observations made in the order

in relation to sensitive matters and confidential informations which otherwise is

not available in public domain until prosecution complaint is filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 . It has assumed the character of

media trial by reason of live streaming of the proceeding. The informations

which are otherwise confidential are now made public. The learned Single Judge

has proceeded on the basis of the materials filed in a sealed envelope which is

likely to affect the rights of the appellant as he has not been given any

opportunity before directions are given for disclosures based on the report. It is

in the nature of an investigation which is not permissible in law. 5. Mr. Kishor Dutta, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of

the appellant has raised objection on the aforesaid grounds. 6. Mr. Dutta has further submitted that in a court monitored

investigation a court cannot assume the role of a prosecutor and interfere with

the manner and mode of investigation. The learned Single Judge directed the

Enforcement Directorate to call for informations in relation to certain matters is

not permissible. It is only when there has been an infraction of the provision of a

law that the complainant can take recourse to appropriate provisions under the Criminal Procedure Code or the law applicable to the investigation. It is

submitted that the observation of the learned Single Judge that the assets

disclosed by the appellant are inadequate and it calls for further investigation is 4 not the correct approach. It is for the investigating agency to decide and conduct

the investigation. 7. Mr. Dutta submitted that courts ordinarily should stay away from

the areas of investigation unless there are exceptional circumstances as

investigation into crimes is the prerogative of the investigating agency. It is not

the function of the court to monitor investigation process so long as such

investigation does not transgress any provision of law and interference is only

called for when there is an infraction of law. It must be left to the discretion of

the investigating agency to decide the manner of investigation as interference at

the stage of investigation is likely to prejudice if the trial is commenced against

the accused. It is not the duty of the court to dictate the investigating agency the

manner in which a person to be interrogated or the nature of question to be put

to him. The purpose of monitoring investigation is to ensure that proper

progress takes place without directing or channeling the mode or manner of

investigation. It is argued that the court monitored investigation cannot be

interchangeably used with the court supervised investigation as held in Manohar Lal Sharma v. Principal Secretary and Ors. , reported in 2014(2)

SCC 538. 8. Mr. Dutta in reference to the said judgment has placed the

observation made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that: "Once the court supervise

an investigation there is hardly anything left to the trial............. Trial becomes a

farce ". 9. Mr. Dutta has also referred to the decision in P. Chidambaram v.

Director of Investigation reported in 2019(9) SCC 24 paragraphs 64 to 67 in

aid of the aforesaid submission. 10. Mr. Dutta referred to the transcripted version of the proceedings of

the court on 25th September, 2023 to show that remarks and observations have

been made by the learned Single Judge in reference to the report filed by the ED

in relation to the investigation made which involved confidential materials. The

proceeding was live streamed. The informations supposed to be confidential are

now made public which is detrimental to the interest of the appellant. 11. Mr. Dutta has referred to the decision of the Directors Central

Bureau of Investigation & Ors. v. Niyamavedi represented by its members

K. Nandini, Advocate and others, reported in 1995(3) SCC 601 to show that

in the said decision the Hon'ble Supreme Court has stated that court should not

disclose material content in police diaries and statements recorded during

investigation. 12. It is submitted that the removal of the investigating officer recorded

in the later order dated 29th September, 2023 is required to be read in the

context of the observations made during hearing as it is a clear case of

interference with the manner of investigation. Moreover, in view of the decision

in SLP CRL NO.10029 of 2002 the court cannot direct completion of

investigation within any particular period of time. 13. Mr. Dutta concludes the submission by referring to the decision in Shri Tapas Pal v. Biplab Kumar Chowdhury & Ors. reported in 2014 SCC 6 OnLine Cal 19533 of this court in which on a reference Justice Nishita Mhatre

as Her Ladyship then was in paragraph 39 of the said decision has

distinguished the court directed or monitored investigation with court

supervised investigation. 14. The appellant is not a party in the writ petition. In an earlier

proceeding the appellant challenged the order of the learned Single Judge by

which the application of the applicant for addition of party was rejected, inter

alia, on the following reason: 15. In a Special Leave Petition being number SLP (C).11588-

11589/2023 ( Abhishek Banerjee v. Soumen Nandy & Ors. ) preferred against the

said judgment the Hon'ble Supreme Court declined to interfere with the order as

would be evident from paragraphs 8 and 9 of the judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court dated 10th July, 2023. The said paragraphs read: However, the award of cost was set aside. 16. Thereafter the investigation proceeded against many persons

including the present petitioner. As it appears from record the petitioner was

called as a witness and was directed to produce certain documents. Immediate

cause for the appeal was the order passed by Justice Sinha following the email

dated 16th September 2023 by which the applicant was directed to produce few

documents by 28th September, 2023. In the mean time, on 27th September, 2023

ED issued a summon requiring the applicant to appear on 3rd October, 2023

with informations/documents mentioned in Annxure 'A'. 17. Mr. Dutta had remonstrated that whenever the appellant decides to

participate in a rally a summon is slapped on his face in order to prevent him

from participating in his political activity. This time also on 3rd October, 2023

the applicant was supposed to attend a program at New Delhi to the knowledge 9 of the ED and in order to scuttle it the Enforcement Directorate issued a notice

on 27th September, 2023 requiring the appellant to be present on 3rd October,

2023. It appears from the first impugned order that the learned Single Judge

was completely exasperated with the tardy progress and manner of

investigation. When the court appointed an agency to investigate it has the

power to monitor the said investigation and to ensure that the investigating

agency conduct the investigation in a free, fair, impartial and time bound

manner without any external interference (See Manoharlal Sharma (supra)

paragraph 39). 18. The investigation was necessary in view enormity of questionable

cash transactions in education recruitment scam. The magnitude of the scam is

unfathomable. A fair investigation can only restore trust and faith in the system

and it should be the endeavor of all to ensure that the culprits are brought to

book and corrupts are punished. The entire gamut of investigation has two

parts. CBI is already involved and ED is subsequently involved to find out the

trail of money and the money laundering. The appellant was called as a witness.

The process of investigation is continuing. The informations required to be

supplied in terms of the summon dated 27th September, 2023 are for the

purpose of an investigation into the money trail and to bring out the truth. The

truth has the ugly habit of raising its head. It is to unearth the truth a fair and

speedy investigation is required. It is for that purpose the court is monitoring

the investigation. We are unable to accept that the court is interfering with the

investigation. Unlike an investigation which is made on the basis of a private 10 complaint it appears that the court on the basis of the materials on record

decided to appoint ED to investigate into the money trail. The direction that was

passed on 25th September, 2023 is not really interfering with the investigation

but in the nature of an enquiry being made with regard to the documents that

could be relevant but not called for by the ED as yet. In fact, we find prior to the

order dated 25th September, 2023 on 16th September, 2023 many of the

documents which form part of the first impugned order have been called for but

the report was unsatisfactory might be because of unavailability of the

information on the date of the report due to non-supply of the said documents.

The order has referred to the memorandum of association of the company in

which the appellant is the CFO. The bank account details of the company and

its directors are relevant and essential to find out the trail of money. The court

in monitoring the investigation of an agency appointed by it can always enquire

from the investigating agency if all the informations have been received as

ultimately the final decision of the ED has to be based on the evidence collected.

It becomes obvious that the report was inadequate with regard to essential

matters. It seems that the report does not contain all the required informations

of the company and its directors. However, the court should not act as a

prosecutor and should be cautious and careful in discussing matters forming

subject matter of investigation as any observation of the court in relation to

investigation might prejudice the person against whom the summon is issued

and could be construed as a direction to the ED to conduct the investigation in

a particular manner. 19. Dr. Singhvi, the learned Senior Counsel has referred to the

transcriptions to show that the court proceeded as a prosecutor and few

questions put to the officer of the ED can create a genuine apprehension in the

mind of the petitioners that the purpose of investigation is to implicate him. We

only say that some of the questions appearing in the transcript version were

avoidable. However, we do not find any reflection of such questions in the

impugned orders. The learned Single Judge perhaps was exasperated due to

incomplete report and tardy progress of investigation. 20. Mr. Dhiraj Tribedi the learned DSGI has submitted that the ED is

untiringly and diligently pursuing the investigation for the last nineteen months

and have recovered Rs. 126 crores and large number of immovable properties

have been attached and several persons have been arrested. We appreciate the

anxiety expressed by Mr. Tribedi with regard to the comments made by the

learned Single Judge about progress of investigation. Mr. Tribedi has submitted

that one of the reasons for the delay is non disclosure of documents and

informations by the petitioner/appellant. The non disclosure of essential

informations has resulted in issuance of the summons. 21. The informations and documents that are called for are essential

which a high profile investigating agency like ED possibly could not have

overlooked. The investigating officers entrusted should be skilled enough to

decide the nature of informations and documents to be called for and expected

to have experience to deal with matters concerning money laundering. Failure to

call for informations and documents essential for the investigation could be fatal 12 and may create a public perception of lack of probity. ED has dedicated skilled

investigators and we would expect that the investigation proceeds on a right

direction. As a statutory authority it is bound by the procedure laid down in the

statutes and must act with utmost probity and with the higher degree of

dispassion and fairness. 22. The summons were issued only to elicit informations with regard to

the affairs of the company in which admittedly the applicant was the director for

almost two years and presently the CEO. Huge unaccounted money has been

recovered from the Chief Operating Officer of the company. He is presently in

custody. The appellant is a Member of Parliament. The disclosures cannot cause

any prejudice to him. It is expected that he should cooperate with the

investigation. Dr. Singhvi has assured that the applicant shall furnish all

informations and documents within a week. We direct the applicant to disclose

all document and informations sought from him till date on or before 10th

October, 2023. The investigation is pending for almost 19 months and any

further delay would be prejudicial for all. 23. Upon receiving all the documents and informations, ED shall

examine it and in the event the ED is of the opinion that the presence of the

applicant is necessary, shall issue summons for appearance of the applicant by

giving him a notice of 48 hours in advance. It is needless to mention that ED in

taking such decision shall act fairly, impartially and shall not be swayed by any

observation appearing from the transcripted version claimed to be authentic 13 disclosed in this proceeding. The ED shall act strictly in accordance with law

and in terms of the impugned orders. 24. We would expect the entire investigation to be concluded by 31st

December, 2023. The appellant shall cooperate with the E.D. in all respect.

However, the E.D. shall not call the applicant between 19th October, 2023 and

26th October, 2023. We expect the applicant to appear as and when his

presence is required by E.D. 25. Before we conclude, we like to observe that the learned Single

Judge in proceeding with the matter shall keep in mind that in monitoring the

investigation, no adverse remark shall be made against any of the persons

against whom the investigation is pending as it is likely to prejudice his rights in

the event any proceeding is ultimately initiated upon conclusion of the

investigation. The endeavour of the Court shall be to ensure a fair, speedy,

impartial and time-bound investigation. It is to be remembered that any adverse

observation against any of the persons summoned could be prejudicial to the

interest of the said person and is likely to influence the investigation and the

trial. The endeavour would be to ensure that the investigating agency gather

and collate all required and relevant informations and file its final report

following the procedure prescribed in law with regard to the outcome of the

investigation. In the instant case the learned Single Judge has not transgressed

the jurisdiction. The directions with regard to disclosures of informations and

documents in the impugned orders has to be read in the context of the email of

16th September, 2023 and consequence of non disclosure of such documents. 14 The ED could not file a proper report due to insufficient materials. ED has

admitted that such informations are essential for a fair investigation. Even for

an action to be initiated under Section 19 of the PMLA Act 2002 the authority

has to form an opinion on the basis of the material gathered during

investigation. 26. The appellant is also entitled to know the outcome of the

investigation and can legitimately expect a quick conclusion of the investigation. 27. We hope and trust that the learned Single Judge shall ensure that

the report filed or to be filed are kept confidential as it is likely to hamper the

investigation and may prejudice the parties against whom the investigation is

pending. The informations shared and/or to be shared with the Court by the

Investigating Agency are to be kept confidential. 28. The E.D. must also ensure that all materials collected and/or

gathered during investigation and all documents supplied by the parties during

investigation are kept confidential during the period of investigation. 29. A point of maintainability of the application for leave to appeal has

been raised. Although, the decision of the learned Single Judge with regard to

addition of party was upheld by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, we feel that in the

pending proceeding if the appellant is aggrieved by the observations that are

likely to adversely affect his participation during investigation, he may have a

right to raise objection as the constitutional Court is duty-bound to ensure

preservation of rights under Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India.

However, in the instant case there is no observation in the impugned orders that 15 can be prejudicial to the applicant and he cannot be a person aggrieved. The

grievance is with regard to few observations found place in the transcripted

version claimed to be authentic. However, no such observation has found its

place in the impugned orders. The constitutional court cannot shut its eyes if

there are glaring discrepancies or insufficiency of materials. The result of the

investigation would be also relevant to decide the matters pending before the

learned Single Judge. The investigating agency shall conduct the investigation in

accordance with law. 30. With the aforesaid observations, both the appeal and the connected

applications are disposed of. 31. However, there shall be no order as to costs. 32. Urgent Photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be given

to the parties upon compliance of all requisite formalities.