This judgment shall dispose of prosecution case reported in FIR
No. 33/2005 vide dated 22.3.2005 for offence punishable u/s 489B and 489C IPC of Police Station Maurice Nagar titled as State Vs. Aftab Alam S/o Mansoor Alam. The charge levelled against the accused are that on
22.03.2005 at about 8.15 pm at Banglow road, near T-Point, opposite e
Hansraj College within the jurisdiction of P.S. Maurice Nagar, Delhi he was
found selling or using as genuine the forged/counterfeit currency notes
knowing or having reason to believe the same to be forged or counterfeit
and also found in possession of 504 not es of Rs. 100/- each in total
which were forged or counterfeit knowing or having reason to believe that
the same to be forged or counterfeit and intending to use the same as
genuine. The prosecution story are that 22.3.2005 , Ct. Altaf Hussain, SI
Darshan Singh and HC Ramesh at about 8 pm they were present at S.C. No.80/1/08 Page1/13 Banglow road police booth. PW10 IO SI Darshan Singh, received the
information that one person who is indulged in circulation of fake
currency note will come at T point Bungalow Road alongwith fake currency
notes. IO SI Darshan Singh asked 4/5 persons to join the raiding party
none accepted. HC Ramesh who was in civil cloth was deputed as decoy
customer. IO SI Darshan Singh gave him a currency note of Rs. 500/- and
instructed him to make the deal with the accused. IO SI Darshan Singh
noted down the number of currency note and the handing over memo was
prepared which is Ex. PW2/A. PW2 Hc Ramesh in civil dress was sent
alongwith informer to the T Point. They also went to the T point and
hidden them behind a Tata Sumo. Informer point towards the accused.
PW2 HC Ramesh approached to the accused to make the deal at around
8.20 pm. After five or seven minutes HC Ramesh conveyed the pre
planned signal. They all went to the accused he was apprehended.
Upon search of the accused fake currency notes were recovered, the
currency notes of denomination of 100/- and total amount was recovered
was Rs. 50400/- PW10 IO SI Darshan Singh after seeing the currency
notes observed that these currency notes were counterfeited. These
currency notes were sealed in 3 separate parcels with the seal of DSY and
were seized vide memo Ex. PW2/B. Seal after use was given to PW7 Ct.
Altaf Hussain. PW10 IO SI Darshan Singh prepared rukka and PW7 Ct.
Altaf Hussain was sent to the PS alongwith rukka, who went to PS gave
the rukka to DO. On the basis of rukka FIR was recorded. The
investigation was assigned to PW8SI Baljeet Singh . PW7 Ct. Altaf
Hussain went to the police booth Bunglow road and handed over copy of
FIR and rukka to PW8 SI Baljeet Singh . Accused was arrested vide memo
Ex. PW2/B and his personal search was conducted vide memo Ex. PW2/E.
Case property was duly exhibited and identified vide Ex. P-1 to P-4. Case
property was deposited in the Malkahana. PC remand of accused was
obtained. PW8 SI Baljeet Singh alongwith accused and other police official
went to Patna and they raided the house of Aggarwal Tola Mohalla, Alam
Ganj. The other persons Kasif and Bobby were not traced. On 22.5.2005,
the pulandas were sent through PW4 Ct. Satbir to currency press Nasik.
On 14.09.2005, the result from Nasik Press was obtained through PW5
Ct. Ravinder and report was filed in the court vide Ex. PW8/B collectively. After completion of investigation challan was filed in the court. On completion of provision u/s 207 IPC a prima facie charge for
offence punishable u/s 489B and 489C IPC framed, upon which the
accused . pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Prosecution in order to prove the allegation against the
accused, examined 11 witnesses including PW9 V.G. Mauru, Assist ant
Work Manager, Currency note Press Nasik , Maharashtra who examined
and 504 currency notes in the domination of Rs. 100 each and found that
they were counterfeit currency notes due to absence of security feature
and prepared the report Ex. PW8/A. The currency notes were again sealed
in a pullanda with the seal of their office. The remaining officers are the police officials who have deposed
in their deposition about the investigation carried out in the present case
and about the documents prepared during the course of investigation i.e.
seizure memo of currency notes vide Ex. PW2/A and PW2/B and rukka
Ex. PW10/A.
 After completion of prosecution evidence, statement of accused
has been recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C, wherein all the incriminating evidence
come on record has been put to accused, he denied the same as false and
incorrect and deposed that he is innocent and falsely implicated in this
case. He was picked up from his house and have been implicated by the
investigating officers with an oblique motive of earning laurels from the
department for causing arrest in fake currency matter. Owing to his
religion, the investigating officer wanted to connect his routes with
Pakistan, to make it a high profile case. However, looking at the frivolity of
the allegations, the crime team negated the version of the investigating
officer and thus the instance case was framed against him. The accused
has also refused to lead any evidence in his defence. I have heard submission of Ld. APP for State, counsel for
accused and also gone through the material on record. Ld. Defence counsel urged that there are major contradiction in
the statement of the witnesses with respect to the arrival of the second
investigating officer namely SI Baljeet Singh and also regarding leaving
the spot besides the other contradictions in respect of recovery, its timings
regarding informer, non joining of public witnesses, not placing DD entry S.C. No.80/1/08 Page3/13 regarding the departure and arrival of the police officials, regarding
deposition of the case property at the security press Nashik. One of the
major contradiction in the case is to the effect that as per the prosecution
case, the accused had brought 500 fake currency notes of Rs. 100/-
denomination from Bihar. It is further contended by Ld. Defence Counsel that as per
record that the accused Aftab Alam had gone to Bihar and from where he
had brought 500 fake currency notes of 100/- denomination in lieu of Rs.
16,000/- original currency notes. It has been further stated that the
accused obtained Rs. 50000/- (fake currency) in lieu of Rs. 16,000/-
original currency. He brought the same to Delhi and was found in
possession of the same at T-point Bungalow Road, near Hans Raj College,
Delhi. It is further that the case of the police are that the accused was
apprehended and was found in possession of 504 fake currency notes, out
of which 15 fake currency notes were purchased by the decoy customer
for Rs. 500/- and 489 fake currency notes were more found in the pocket
of the accused and it is not explained that from where he brought the four
more fake currency notes as the alleged recovery in respect of 504 fake
currency notes. Further the SI Darshan Singh, who had arrested the
accused and had recovered the alleged fake currency notes and then why
the Duty Officer, chooses to hand over the investigation to SI Baljeet
Singh. It is further contended by Ld. Defence Counsel that PW2 HC
Ramesh Singh was alongwith IO SI Darshan Singh on the alleged date but
no departure entry by the witness showing that at what time he had left the
police station and at what time he had returned to the police station.
Moreover, his statement is full of contradictions regarding joining of public
witnesses either in the raiding party or at the time of the alleged recovery.
He had admitted that public persons were available at the spot and the
nearby market and Karim Restaurant was opened but no public person
was called to join the proceedings. PW2 further states that there was a
decoy customer and he went to the accused and entered into deal of
purchasing 15 fake currency notes of Rs. 500/- denomination and a note of
Rs. 500/- was given to him by the IO but neither this witness nor the IO
explained as to from which account this currency note of Rs. 500/- was
given to the decoy customer. Further that the PW7 Ct. Altaf Hussain who was with the IO
never alleged about the story of purchasing of 15 fake currency notes in
lieu of Rs. 500/-. The investigating agency has miserably failed to place
the handing over the memo of Rs. 500/- currency notes to the decoy
customer. The PW7 had categorically admitted that he understands the
difference between " a person will come for selling the fake currency notes" In view of the contention raised by Public Prosecutor and
counsel for the accused and material placed on record. It is matter of fact
that there are some defect or error in the investigation here and there, but
on the basis of the omission or errors either it may be deliberate or non
deliberate, the case of the prosecution cannot be thrown away. It is
observed in case titled as Ram Bihari Yadava Vs. State of Bihar and
others ( 1998 (4) SCC 517) that " if primacy is given to such designed
or negligent investigation, to the omission or lapses by perfunctory
investigation or omissions, the faith and confidence of the people
would be shaken not only in the law enforcing agency but also in the
administration of justice" Therefore, in operating the sentencing system, law should adopt the
corrective machinery or the deterrence based on factual matrix. In Sevaka Perumal etc. Vs State of Tamil Nadu (1991 (3)
SCC 471 "It is therefore, the duty of every court to award proper sentence
having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was
executed or committed etc. The accused/convicted Aftab Alam committed
an offence which is not so serious as to the homicide but if we take the
wider meaning, the person running the business as having in possession of
the fake government currency for what was the motive except to use and
circulate in the market none else, resulted which, hamper the economy of
th country, as well as also cause negative effect on the economy system in
India. Therefore, in view of the facts and circumstances and the
contentions raised by the Ld. APP for state and the counsel for accused,
Aftab Alam S/o Mansoor Alam is sentenced to undergone period and fine
of Rs. 50000/- I/D One year Simple Imprisonment for the offence
punishable u/s 489C IPC
 I think the sentence awarded will meet the end of justice and
also have a deterrent as well as reformatory way in the mind of the
convicted. Copy of this order be given to the convicted free of cost
forthwith. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT TODAY ON 12.4.2010

 (SATINDER KUMAR GAUTAM)
 ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE(WEST-04)
 DELHI S.C. No.80/1/08 Page13/13