(Pronounced on the 24th day of February, 2025)

Brief Case of the Prosecution: Thereafter, he alongwith his brother in law went to the shop of his father-
in-law situated in gali no.11, C-Block, Shri Ram Colony, Khajuri Khas.
His father-in-law was not found at the said shop and thereafter, he
alongwith his brother-in-law made all possible efforts to find his father-
in-law, however, no clue about his whereabouts were found. 4. In his statement, Ex. PW1/A, the complainant Anil Kumar had
stated that when he could not find his father-in-law, the complainant
came to the PS Khajuri Khas and informed the police officials about the
said call and the ransom demand of Rs. 30,000/- made by the abductor
over the phone. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 5. Upon the statement of the complainant Ex. PW1/A, the IO
prepared the rukka, Ex. PW6/A and the Duty Officer ASI Shanti Lal
made an endorsement, Ex. PW6/B on the said rukka and thereafter, the
Duty Officer ASI Shanti Lal got the present case FIR, Ex. PW6/C u/s
364-A IPC, 1860 registered. 6. After the registration of the present case FIR, the investigation was
marked to IO SI Arjun Singh and the IO prepared a raiding team
consisting of the IO himself, the complainant Anil Kumar and other
police staff. The raiding team left the PS for Bhajanpura Chowk in car
bearing registration no. DL-4CAJ-3130 belonging to the complainant.
They waited at Bhajanpura Chowk for quite sometime, however, no clue
regarding the victim/abductee or the abductors was found. Thereafter, at
the instance of complainant Anil Kumar, the IO and other members of
the raiding staff reached Khajuri Chowk and thereafter, they reached
near Wazirabad Bus Stand. 7. That while the IO and the members of the raiding team were
waiting near Wazirabad Bus Stand, after lapse of considerable time, two
boys came there and at the pointing out of the complainant Anil Kumar,
the said boys were apprehended by the raiding team. During the
interrogation, the said apprehended boys revealed their names to be
Rizwan and Rohit. IO arrested them and recorded their disclosure
statements, in which they had deposed that the victim Rajender Gupta
was with their associates/accomplices near Loni Police Post, Ghaziabad Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 8. Thereafter, the IO alongwith accused Rizwan and Rohit reached
near Loni Police Post, wherein, the accused Rohit pointed out towards
accused Harun (since deceased) as one of the abductors and the IO was
informed by accused Rohit that the victim Rajender Gupta is in the
custody of accused Harun. Thereafter, the IO apprehended accused
Harun and his disclosure statement was recorded, in which he had stated
that the victim Rajender Gupta was at the house of one Gulzar, situated
at Arya Nagar, Loni, Ghaziabad. 9. Thereafter, IO alongwith his staff left for Arya Nagar, Loni,
Ghaziabad and at H. No. 180, 60 Foota Road, near Neelam Factory, Arya
Nagar, Loni, Ghaziabad, victim Rajender Gupta was found locked inside
a room situated on the left side of the said house. The IO managed to
apprehend the owner of the said house, accused Gulzar. Accused Gulzar
could not give any satisfactory explanation regarding the presence of the
victim in his house and he was later arrested by the IO. 10. The victim Rajender Gupta and accused Rizwan, Rohit, Harun and
Gulzar were brought back to the PS and the IO interrogated them
separately. Thereafter, upon the disclosure of the accused persons,
accused Salim was apprehended from Old Mustafabad, Delhi and later
on his disclosure statement was recorded by the IO. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 11. Thereafter, on 09.09.2015, accused Sherdeen @ Shera had
surrendered before the Court of Ld. MM and thereafter, he was arrested
in the present case after taking permission from the concerned Court.
The IO moved an application for getting the judicial TIP of accused
Sherdeen @ Shera conducted, however, he had refused to take part in the
same. 12. As per the disclosure statements of accused persons, three more
accomplices of theirs namely Naveen, Javed and Bobby were involved in
the commission of the offence in question, however, they could not be
traced. After completion of the investigation, the chargesheet was filed
before the court of Ld. MM and after compliance of section 207 / 208 Cr.PC, 1973 the case was committed by the Court of Ld. MM before this
Court on 19.11.2015. 13. Thereafter, the charges were framed by my Ld. Predecessor on
11.01.2016 U/s 120-B IPC , 1860 and u/s 364-A R/w Section 34 of Indian
Penal Code, 1860 against the accused persons. The accused persons
pleaded not guilty and they had claimed trial. However, since, in the
formal charges dated 11.01.2016, the signature of the Ld. Predecessor of
this Court were missing and since the same could have been a result of a
mere oversight, therefore, this Court exercised its suo-moto powers u/s
216 Cr.PC, 1973 and fresh amended formal charges were framed against
accused Rizwan, Salim, Gulzar, Rohit and Sherdeen @ Shera. CNR No. DLNE01-000425-2015 FIR No. 739/2015 State Vs. Rizwan & Ors. Page no. 8/68 14. During the trial, accused Harun had expired and the proceedings
qua him stood abated vide order dated 26.07.2022. Prosecution Evidence: 15. To prove its case, the prosecution has examined Fifteen (15)
witnesses, including five Public Witnesses; one Forensic Witness; and
nine Formal Witnesses including the two Investigating Officers. 16. Public Witnesses: P2. Therefore, the said DVD having the video clipping is now read as
Ex. P2A). (Emphasis supplied). (16.2.9) PW-2 Rajender Gupta during his cross examination conducted
by Ld. Counsel for the accused Salim, Sherdeen @ Shera and Rohit had
deposed that it was correct that the girl shown in the video, Ex. P2A was
the same girl, who was already present at the premises at Bhajanpura,
where he was taken by the accused persons. He further categorically
deposed that at the time of his abduction from Khajuri Chowk, no girl
was present there and he had not received any call from any girl, asking
him to come to Bhajanpura. He voluntarily deposed that the accused
persons had taken him to Bhajanpura and he met the said girl in the
house where he was taken. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (16.2.17) PW-2 Rajender Gupta during his cross examination conducted
by Ld. Counsel for the accused Rizwan had deposed that accused Rohit
and one accomplice namely Jabid, who is absconding in the present case,
took him in the auto rickshaw from Bhajanpura to Nasbandi Colony. (16.3.1) PW-4 is Pradeep Kumar Gupta and he is the son fo the victim.
He had deposed that on 12.07.2015 at about 09:00 PM, his jija Anil
Kumar Gupta (PW-1/complainant) came to his house and asked about
his father (PW-2/Victim) and he told his jija that his father would be at
their shop and thereafter, they both went to the shop of his father.
However, his father was not found there and shop was closed. Thereafter,
they made searches for his father, however, no clue was found as to his
whereabouts. Thereafter, his jija Anil Kumar went to the PS and his
statement was recorded by the IO and the present case FIR was
registered. The police officials had prepared a raiding team for searching
his father and his jija Anil Kumar was made part of the said team,
however, he was relieved from there. CNR No. DLNE01-000425-2015 FIR No. 739/2015 State Vs. Rizwan & Ors. Page no. 18/68
 (16.3.2) PW-4 Pradeep Kumar Gupta was declared hostile by Ld. Addl.
PP for the State and was subjected to rigorous cross examination,
however, nothing material to the prosecution case came out from the
same. (16.4.1) PW-8 is Ranjeet Singh and he is the owner of the house where
the accused persons had allegedly kept and confined the victim. He had
deposed that he is the registered owner of the 2 nd floor situated at H. No.
C-15/04, Gali No. 1, Bhajanpura, Delhi and he had given the said house
on rent to one Ashok Kumar Sharma around 3 years prior to the date of
recording of his testimony, on Rs. 3,500/- per month. The said house was
then occupied by the tenant Ashok Kumar Sharma and his family. (16.4.2) PW-8 Ranjeet Singh had further deposed that he did not knew
any person by the name of Sherdeen @ Shera and accused Sherdeen @
Shera never resided as a tenant in his house. He further deposed that he
was not aware as to what had happened in his house on 12.07.2015. (16.4.2) PW-8 Ranjeet Singh was declared hostile by Ld. Addl. PP for
the State and was subjected to rigorous cross examination, however,
nothing material to the prosecution case came out from the same. (16.5.1) PW-13 is Hemant Sharma and he had deposed regarding the I-
card of accused Salim. He had deposed that he was working as Editor in
News Agency namely "Views Around News" (International News
Agency) having its office in Gurgaon Haryana and during the
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 17. Forensic Witness: 18. Formal Police Witnesses: Nishu Kumar he had sent the exhibits to FSL Rohini for analysis through
RC No. 111/21/15, Ex. PW7/C upon the directions of the IO and he
made the endorsement in register no. 19, Ex. PW7/B. It has come in the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Nishu Kumar, since, the property could not be deposited as the charger
was no available and he made an endorsement, Ex. PW7/E. The FSL
report was brought back and deposited in the malkhan by PW10 Ct.
Nishu Kumar and PW7 made an endorsement, Ex. PW7/F.

(18.3.1) Through the testimony of PW-3 IO SI Kuldeep Singh and PW-9
Ct. Khushi Ram, the prosecution has sought to prove that on 09.09.2015,
accused Sherdeen @ Shera was formally arrested by PW3, with the
permission of the concerned Court vide arrest memo, Ex. PW3/A.
Thereafter, PW3 recorded the disclosure statement, Ex. PW3/B. The
accused Sherdeen @ Shera refused to participate in the TIP proceedings.
On 09.09.2015, victim Rajender Gupta came to the PS and identified the
accused as to the same person who had repeatedly made ransom calls.
PW3 further recorded the statements of victim Rajender Gupta and PW9
Ct. Khushi Ram. At the instructions of the IO, PW3 handed back the file
to the MHC(R) on 10.09.2015. (18.4.1) As per the case of the prosecution, after the IO SI Arjun Singh
had recorded statement of the complainant, Ex. PW1/A and after
registration of the present case FIR, Ex. PW6/C, he had constituted a
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 19. Accused Sherdeen @ Shera had admitted the TIP proceedings
conducted before Ms. Prabhdeep Kaur, Ld. MM, North East, KKD, vide
the statement recorded u/s 294 Cr.PC on 14.02.2019 and the said TIP
proceedings, wherein, he had refused to take part, were admitted and
exhibited as Ex. P-1.The said TIP proceedings were inadvertently
exhibited as Ex. P-1. (Therefore, the TIP proceedings are henceforth
renumbered and referred to as Ex. P-1A). (Emphasis supplied). 20. After completion of prosecution evidence, PE was closed. Accused
Harun had already expired during the trial and proceedings qua him have
stood abated. The statement(s) of the remaining accused persons was
recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. 1973, in which they had all pleaded
innocence. 21. The accused persons chose not lead any DE. 22. I have heard the arguments advanced by Sh. Kamal Akhter, Ld.
Additional PP for the State; Sh. R. C. Verma, Ld. Counsel for accused
Salim, Sherdeen @ Shera and Rohit; Sh. Nadeem Qureshi, Ld. Counsel
for accused Rizwan; and Sh. Vinod Sharma, Ld. Counsel for accused
Gulzar. I have also minutely gone through the evidence brought on
record and the material aspects of the case. CNR No. DLNE01-000425-2015 FIR No. 739/2015 State Vs. Rizwan & Ors. Page no. 34/68
 Submissions made on behalf of the State: 23. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the accused
Rizwan, Rohit, Salim, Gulzar and Sherdeen @ Shera entered into a
criminal conspiracy with each other and co-accused Harun, who had
expired during the trial, on or before 12.07.2015 and in pursuance of
their criminal conspiracy they had hatched a plan to abduct the victim
Rajender Gupta and to demand a ransom for the release of the
abductee/victim. Therefore, they had all committed the offence of
criminal conspiracy punishable u/s 120-B IPC 1860. 24. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that through the
testimony of the prosecution witnesses, the accused persons Rizwan,
Rohit, Salim, Gulzar and Sherdeen @ Shera in furtherance of their
common intention shared with each other alongwith co-accused Harun
(since deceased), in pursuance of their criminal conspiracy, had abducted
victim Rajender Gupta, in order that the said victim would be kept under
detention, so that their conduct would give rise to a reasonable
apprehension that the victim/abductee may be put to death or hurt and
the accused persons had committed the said act of abduction and
confinement with the intention to compel the victim Rajender Gupta and
his family member, complainant Anil Kumar, who is the son-in-law of
the victim by raising a ransom demand of Rs. 1 lakh, which was later
agreed to be settled for Rs. 30,000/-. The complainant approached the
police officials after receiving the ransom calls and the police prepared Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 25. It is further submitted by the Ld. Addl. PP for the state that the
testimony of the complainant PW-1 Anil Kumar is categorical in nature
and he is fully supported by the testimony of star prosecution witness i.e.
the victim/abductee PW2 Rajender Gupta. Their testimonies were further
corroborated by the depositions of the members of the raiding party, who
had not only arrested the accused persons who had come to take the
delivery of the ransom amount, however, also regarding the recovery of
the victim from confinement. The testimony of PW14 IO SI Arjun
Singh, PW12 HC Pradeep and PW5 Ct. Ganga Ram has fully supported
the testimony of the public witnesses and the prosecution has been able
to discharge its burden beyond reasonable doubt. 26. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the
testimony of the complainant and the victim was also fully corroborated Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 27. It is further submitted by the Ld. Addl. PP for the state that the
identity of the accused persons were fully established in the present case
as they were duly identified by all the prosecution witnesses, at the time
of their examination-in-chief before this Court. Therefore, the
prosecution has successfully discharged its burden beyond reasonable
doubt that the accused persons have committed the offences for which
they are charged with and were facing trial before this Court. Submissions made on behalf of the Accused Persons: 28. The respective Ld. Counsels for the accused persons have
addressed common final arguments. 29. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
entire prosecution story is fraught with inherent inconsistencies and no
reasonable prudent person would believe the same. The accused persons
have been falsely implicated in the present case by the police officials of
PS Khajuri Khas, wherein, the entire story was cooked up and false
evidence was created to implicate the accused persons. 30. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that as Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 31. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that as
per the version of the prosecution, the abductors had raised a ransom
demand of Rs. 1 lakh from the victim and to satisfy the said demand, the
victim had made to call his son-in-law Anil Kumar, who is the
complainant of the present case. The IO has not conducted the
investigation of this case properly. Firstly, no effort was made by the IO
to procure the CDR of the victim's mobile phone, so as to ascertain the
identity of the initial caller, who had asked him to reach Bhajanpura
Chowk. The matter was further confounded, when the IO very
conveniently chose not to investigate the role of the woman accomplice
of the accused persons and she was not made an accused in the present
case. 32. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that as
per the prosecution story, the intention of the accused persons was to
take nude/semi-nude inappropriate photographs and videos of the victim
alongwith a girl, so that the said photograph/video could be used as a
means to blackmail him. The said photograph and video were taken, so Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 33. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
during the trial, the contents of the said handycam, Ex. P-1, which was
recovered allegedly from accused Salim could never be played before
this Court, since, the same could not be switched on, despite of best
efforts. The recording, Ex. PX (also exhibited as Ex. PW15/P-4), which
was played from the DVD-R was consisting of series of separate videos
running into more than one hour, wherein, different personnel could be
seen. The said videos were not shot in one day and it did not pertain to
one single place. In the said video, the board of the police station could
be seen at one place and at other places number of police officers could
be seen. The IO could not offer any reasonable explanation as to why the
persons shown in the said video, including the police officials were not
interrogated by him regarding the offence in question. Thereby, serious
doubts are raised against the entire prosecution story. 34. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
the entire prosecution's case was resting on the shoulders of two star
witnesses, namely, PW1 Anil Kumar (complainant) and PW2 Rajender
Gupta (Victim). Both the said witnesses had not fully supported the case Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 35. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
the most essential link of the entire prosecution story was the recovery of
victim Rajender Gupta in the presence of his son-in-law Anil Kumar.
When the complainant entered into the witness box as PW1, he had
categorically denied the suggestion that his father-in-law Rajender Gupta
being recovered from Loni, Ghaziabad. Therefore, the entire
investigation is rendered suspicious and the benefit of the same must go
to the accused persons. 36. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
the prosecution could not offer any explanation as what happened to the
ransom amount of Rs. 30,000/-. The material prosecution witnesses,
belonging to the raiding party had given contradictory depositions
regarding the said cash amount of Rs. 30,000/-. The IO never seized the
alleged ransom amount and the same was not produced before this Court
and therefore, another essential link of the prosecution story is not
established in the present case. CNR No. DLNE01-000425-2015 FIR No. 739/2015 State Vs. Rizwan & Ors. Page no. 40/68 37. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
the most essential link of the prosecution story was the alleged recovery
of the handycam and mic from the accused Salim, however, the said
recovery was also thrown in deep waters by the testimony of the victim
PW2 Rajender Gupta, wherein, he had categorically deposed that
nothing was recovered from the house of the accused persons. 38. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
the victim PW2 Rajender Gupta is not a witness of sterling quality and
his deposition has to be disregarded in toto. As per the prosecution case,
six accused persons namely Rizwan, Rohit, Harun (since deceased),
Salim, Gulzar and Sherdeen @ Shera were involved in the commission
of the alleged offence, yet, during his cross examination, conducted on
19.12.2017, PW2 Rajender Gupta had categorically deposed that one
Brij Bhan was involved in the offence in question and he was identified
by him at the time of his cross examination, in spite of the fact that there
is no allegations against any such person namely Brij Bhan of being
involved in the present case. 39. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
victim PW2 Rajender Gupta had contradicted himself, since, in his
examination-in-chief, he had categorically deposed that when he went to
Bhajanpura Chowk, he met a girl there alongwith 3-4 persons. However,
during his cross examination, he had categorically deposed that at the
time of his abduction, no girl was present there. The entire prosecution
story was based upon a call made to the victim from a girl, yet during his Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 40. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
even the son of the victim, namely PW4 Pradeep Kumar Gupta had not
fully supported the case of the prosecution and he had turned hostile
regarding the ransom demand of Rs. 30,000/- being made by the
abductors to his brother-in-law (jija) Anil Kumar, so as to ensure the
safety of his father Rajender Gupta. 41. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that as
per the prosecution story, after registration of the FIR, the IO SI Arjun
Singh had constituted a raiding team consisting of the complainant and
six police personnel. However, the IO chose not to make Ct. Asha Ram,
Ct. Pankaj and HC Deepak as the prosecution witnesses and the essential
corroboration of the testimony of the PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh, could not
be established in the present case. 42. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons that
the testimony of the prosecution witnesses, as brought before this Court
by the State is marred with inherent inconsistencies and contradictions
and serious doubts are raised upon the entire version as put forth by the
prosecution. Therefore, the benefit of the said doubts must go to the
accused persons and they may be acquitted of commission of the alleged
offences. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 43. In the background of the above before appreciating the evidence
brought on record, I deem it fit to discuss the relevant law and the case
laws. It is trite law that the accused persons can be convicted on the basis
of credible evidence brought on record and the appreciation of the said
evidence must be done in correct and true perspective manner and in the
natural course of events, what would have been occurred. Appreciation
of evidence beyond reasonable doubt does not mean that it should be
assessed beyond any iota of doubt. Beyond Reasonable Doubt means
that the prosecution is required to place evidence at a higher degree of
preponderance of probabilities compared to what is degree of
preponderance of probability in civil cases. The theory of Beyond
Reasonable Doubt means expecting higher degree of preponderance of
probabilities and the natural conduct of human beings, as held by the
Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka in " State of Karnataka Vs Venkatesh
@ Venkappa & Anr " , Criminal Appeal No. 100492 of 2021, decided on
18.12.2023. 44. Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act defines "evidence". The
evidence can be broadly divided into oral and documentary. "Evidence"
under the Act can be said to include the means, factor or material,
lending a degree of probability through a logical inference to the
existence of a fact. It is an adjective law highlighting and aiding the
substantive law. Thus, it is neither wholly procedural nor substantive, Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 45. The definition of the word "proved" though gives an impression of
a mere interpretation, in effect, is the heart and soul of the entire Act.
This clause, consciously speaks of proving a fact by considering the
"matters before it". The importance is attached to the degree of
probability in proving a fact through the consideration of the matters
before the court. What is required for a court to decipher is the existence
of a fact and its proof by a degree of probability, through a logical
inference. 46. Matters are necessary, concomitant material factors to prove a fact.
All "evidence" would be "matters" but not vice versa. In other words,
matters could be termed as a genus of which evidence would be a
species. Matters also adds strength to the evidence giving adequate
ammunition in the Court's sojourn in deciphering the truth. Thus, the
definition of "matters" is exhaustive, and therefore, much wider than that
of "evidence". However, there is a caveat, as the court is not supposed to
consider a matter which acquires the form of an evidence when it is
barred in law. Matters are required for a court to believe in the existence
of a fact. 47. Matters, do give more discretion and flexibility to the court in
deciding the existence of a fact. They also include all the classification of
evidence such as circumstantial evidence, corroborative evidence,
derivative evidence, direct evidence, documentary evidence, hearsay Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 48. In addition, they supplement the evidence in proving the existence
of a fact by enhancing the degree of probability. As an exhaustive
interpretation has to be given to the word "matter", and for that purpose,
the definition of the expression of the words "means and includes",
meant to be applied for evidence, has to be imported to that of a "matter"
as well. Thus, a matter might include such of those which do not fall
within the definition of Section 3 , in the absence of any express bar. 49. What is important for the court is the conclusion on the basis of
existence of a fact by analyzing the matters before it on the degree of
probability. The entire enactment is meant to facilitate the court to come
to an appropriate conclusion in proving a fact. There are two methods by
which the court is expected to come to such a decision. The court can
come to a conclusion on the existence of a fact by merely considering the
matters before it, in forming an opinion that it does exist. This belief of
the court is based upon the assessment of the matters before it.
Alternatively, the court can consider the said existence as probable from
the perspective of a prudent man who might act on the supposition that it
exists. The question as to the choice of the options is best left to the court
to decide. The said decision might impinge upon the quality of the
matters before it. 50. The word "prudent" has not been defined under the Act. When the
court wants to consider the second part of the definition clause instead of
believing the existence of a fact by itself, it is expected to take the role of
a prudent man. Such a prudent man has to be understood from the point
of view of a common man. Therefore, a judge has to transform into a
prudent man and assess the existence of a fact after considering the
matters through that lens instead of a judge. It is only after undertaking
the said exercise can he resume his role as a judge to proceed further in
the case. 51. The aforesaid provision also indicates that the court is concerned
with the existence of a fact both in issue and relevant, as against a whole
testimony. Thus, the concentration is on the proof of a fact for which a
witness is required. Therefore, a court can appreciate and accept the
testimony of a witness on a particular issue while rejecting it on others
since it focuses on an issue of fact to be proved. However, the evidence
of a witness as whole is a matter for the court to decide on the
probability of proving a fact which is inclusive of the credibility of the
witness. Whether an issue is concluded or not is also a court's domain. 52. While appreciating the evidence as aforesaid along with the matters
attached to it, evidence can be divided into three categories broadly
namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) wholly unreliable and (iii) neither wholly
reliable nor wholly unreliable. If evidence, along with matters
surrounding it, makes the court believe it is wholly reliable qua an issue,
it can decide its existence on a degree of probability. Similar is the case Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: In the first category of proof, the court should have no difficulty in
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 53. In the background of the abovesaid decisions, I shall now appraise
the evidence brought on record. The prosecution case was hinging upon
the testimonies of three star witnesses, namely the complainant, PW1
Anil Kumar; the victim, PW2 Rajender Gupta; and the son of the victim,
PW4 Pradeep Kumar Gutpa. The said witnesses had not fully supported
the case of the prosecution and they were all declared hostile on one
point or the other by the State. They were all subjected to rigorous cross
examination conducted by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State, however, they
had categorically denied all the suggestions being put to them. 54. It is trite law, the maxim of "Falsus in Uno Falsus in Omnibus" has
no application in the criminal jurisprudence of India and the witness
cannot be simply branded as a liar. The rule as contained in the said legal
maxim is not a rule of evidence in the criminal trials, which take place in
this country. The duty which is cast upon all the Criminal Courts,
including the present Court, is to disengage truth from falsehood, so as to
sift the grain from chaff. The reliance is placed upon the decisions of the
Hon'ble Apex Court in " Triloki Nath Vs. State of UP " AIR 2006 SC 321
and "Rizan Vs. State of Chhatisgarh " AIR 2003 SC 976. 55. As per the aforementioned decisions passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 56. PW1 Anil Kumar is the prime witness for the case of the
prosecution, since, not only did he receive the alleged ransom call from
the mobile phone of the abductee/victim, wherein, he was made to talk to
the abductors, additionally, he had also remained with the IO throughout
the investigation and he was the member of the alleged raid/recovery
team which led to the arrest of the accused persons and the ultimate
recovery of the victim PW2 Rajender Kumar Gupta. 57. As per his statement, Ex. PW1/A recorded by the IO, it was stated
by the complainant Anil Kumar that on 12.07.2015, during the evening
hours, he received 4-5 missed calls from his father-in-law Rjender
Gupta. When he had called back on the mobile phone of his father-in-
law at around 08:30 PM, one person who introduced himself to be Shera
had informed him that his father-in-law Rajender Gupta was abducted
and a ransom demand was made from him, or else, the said abductors
would have eliminated his father-in-law. 58. As per the statement, Ex. PW1/A, the demand of ransom was for Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 59. As per the version of the complainant, the first time he noticed a
missed call from the mobile phone of his father-in-law was at around
08:30 PM on 12.07.2015 and thereafter, there were several calls
exchanged between the complainant PW1 Anil Kumar and the alleged
abductors. The IO had procured the CDR of the mobile phone of the
complainant bearing no. 9136538384, Ex. PW14/C and as per the
testimony of PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh, there were around 16 calls made
between the phone of the victim Rajender Gupta having number
8447262963 between 01:30 PM to 07:00 PM. As per the said CDR, Ex.
PW14/C, there were numerous calls exchanged between the mobile
phone of the complainant and the victim, wherein, the first call was
exchanged at 19:29:35 on 12.07.2015 and the last call was exchanged at
12:50:56 on 13.07.2015. (Emphasis supplied). 60. There is also a contradiction in the inter-se testimonies of PW1 Anil
Kumar and PW2 Rajender Gupta, regarding the genesis of the
prosecution story. As per the victim PW-2 Rajender Gupta, on
12.07.2015, after he was abducted and the abductors raised a ransom
demand of Rs. 1 lakh, he called his son-in-law Anil on his mobile phone. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: As per the IO, after more than 12 hours of the registration of the FIR, a
raiding team was constituted by him and at about 04:00 PM, the accused
Rizwan and Rohit were apprehended near Waziarabad Bus Stand. As per
the IO, the complainant Anil Kumar was in constant touch with the
abductors and they kept on waiting for the abductors, who had allegedly
come to receive the ransom amount and as per their instructions received
from time to time, the raiding party kept changing their position from
Khajuri Chowk to Wazirabad Bus Stand. However, when the said CDR,
Ex. PW14/C is appreciated carefully, it reflects that there was not even a
single call made from the mobile phone of the victim i.e. 8447262963 to Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 13.12.2015. The last communication between the said mobile phones
thus took place around four hours prior to the first batch of the accused
persons, namely Rohit and Rizwan being arrested and the said call detail
records are running counter to the testimony of PW1 Anil Kumar and the
PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh, regarding the complainant being in regular
touch with the abductors during that time or that their locations kept on
changing as per the instructions received from the said abductors, since,
he had categorically deposed that "The kidnappers had called me to
Khajoori under the flyover. In the meantime, I further instruction from
the abductor to drive the vehicle slowly and we reached near the
Wazirabad Bridge and as per instructions of the kidnappers, we stopped
the vehicle at Wazirabad Bus Stand. Two police officials were with us
on their bike and three police officials in our vehicle. The police officials
on their bike found the two persons/who were talking to us over
telephone." However, in the CDR, Ex. PW14/C, there is no call made or
received on the mobile phone of the complainant Anil Kumar after 12:50
PM on 13.07.2015, thereby, casting serious doubts of shadow on his
entire testimony. 62. Complainant PW1 Anil Kumar had further deposed that it was the
police officials/members of the raiding party, who were on bike, had
found the accused Rizwan and Rohit and the said accused persons were
taken to the police station and were interrogated. However, the PW14 IO
SI Arjun Singh had given a contradictory testimony regarding the
apprehension of accused Rohit and Rizwan at the time of his Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 63. The matter did not end here and the complainant PW1 went on to
further depose that after accused Rizwan and Rohit were apprehended
and were taken to the PS, he had received another telephonic call from
the abductor namely Shera, wherein, he was told that his father-in-law
would be killed and that the innocent persons have been apprehended in
this case and the said caller had hurled abuses and threatened the
complainant over the telephone. There is no mention of the said phone
call received by the complainant, after the arrest of accused Rizwan and
Rohit, in the testimonies of PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh, PW12 HC Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 64. PW1 Anil Kumar had further categorically deposed that on the
same night i.e. 13.07.2015, the police officials went to the house of
accused Salim and got recovered one digital handy-camera and one mic.
He had deposed regarding the arrest of accused Salim and recovery of
the digital handy-camera at the instance of accused Salim, in spite of the
fact that in the seizure memo, Ex. PW2/B, no recovery was effected in
his presence and the same does not bear his signatures as a witness. The
said document bears the signature of the victim PW2 Rajender Gupta as
one of the witnesses of the said recovery, however, it had categorically
come in the cross examination of the victim PW2 Rajender Gupta
conducted by Ld. Chief Public Prosecutor for the State that "It is correct
that the seizure memo Ex. PW2/B bears my signatures at point A but the
digital camera was not recovered in my presence from accused Salim."
Therefore, serious shadow of doubt is cast upon the recovery
proceedings and the benefit of the said doubt must go to the accused
persons. 65. There are serious doubts as to the exact place from where the
victim/abductee PW2 Rajender Gupta was recovered by the police Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 66. Even the victim Rajender Gupta had not supported the case of the
prosecution, as far as the exact place of his recovery is concerned. When
he stepped into the witness box as PW2, he had categorically deposed
that "Anil my son-in-law alongwith some police officials came to a
vacant plot at Loni Ghaziabad and got me recovered." Therefore, another
essential link of the circumstantial evidence for the case of the
prosecution was not established in the present case. 67. The prosecution could not even establish that the victim was
abducted and first taken to the house of accused Sherdeen @ Shera at
Bhajanpura and thereafter, he was shifted to Arya Nagar, Loni,
Ghaziabad. To establish the said fact and to link the accused Sherdeen @
Shera with the present offence in question, the prosecution had examined
PW8 Ranjeet Singh, who was apparently the owner of the house no.
C-15/4, Gali No.1, Bhajanpura, Delhi. As per the prosecution story, the
said house was given on rent by the said owner to accused Sherdeen @
Shera. However, the said witness had not supported the case of the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 68. Both PW1 Anil Kumar and PW2 Rajender Kumar had completely
gone hostile regarding the involvement of accused Gulzar, Harun (since
deceased) and Sherdeen @ Shera is concerned. The victim PW2
Rajender Kumar had categorically denied the suggestion being put him
by Ld. Chief Public Prosecutor for the State that he was confined in the
house belonging to accused Gulzar or that the police officials had
arrested the accused persons in his presence. He also categorically
denied the suggestions that he had identified accused Sherdeen @ Shera
before the police at the PS, being the same person who was talking to his
son-in-law Anil. The attention of PW2 Rajender Gupta was categorically
drawn towards accused Sherdeen @ Shera, however, after seeing him he
had clearly deposed that the accused Sherdeen @ Shera was not the same
person who was making frequent call to the complainant. 69. As per the prosecution case, the victim Rajender Gupta was lured in
by the abductors, after he received a phone call from one girl, who asked
him to come to Khajuri Crossing. However, when the victim entered into
the witness box as PW2 on 01.02.2016, he had categorically deposed
that "On 12.07.2015 at around 06:00 PM, I received a call on my mobile
number 84472629632 calling me to Khajuri Crossing. I went there where Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Therefore, serious doubts are created around the credibility of the victim,
PW2 as a witness as well. 70. During the examination-in-chief of PW2 Rajender Gupta,
conducted on 18.12.2017, the DVD-R, Ex. PX, prepared by FSL,
containing the video clipping prepared from camera, Ex. P-1 was played
and in the said video clipping, there was one lady and one man having
walky talky in his hand, could be seen. The victim PW2 Rajender Gupta
during his cross examination conducted on the same date had admitted
the suggestion that girl shown in the video, was the same girl who was
already present at the premises in Bhajanpura, where he was taken by the
accused persons. He had further volunteered that the accused persons
had taken him to Bhajanpura and he met the said girl at the Bhajanpura
house. 71. The testimony of the victim PW2 Rajender Gupta qua the identity Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 72. When the PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh entered into the witness box, he
had categorically deposed that he had prepared the site plan, Ex.
PW14/B of the place from where the victim was abducted by one lady
and others. He further went on to depose that "I made search for
aforesaid lady who had participated in the crime alongwith abductors,
but she could be traced." 73. Thereafter, during his cross examination conducted by Ld. Defense
Counsel on 14.03.2024, PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh had categorically
deposed that "Only initial inquiry was made from the girl who is seen in
the video, who was used by the accused persons as a pawn, and she
disclosed her name as 'Baby'. No further whereabouts of the said girl
were inquired into." Therefore, the IO has contradicted himself, since, at
one instance he had stated that the girl who could be seen in the video
was not traced, however, he went on to categorically depose that he had
made initial inquiries from the said girl and her name was Baby.
Furthermore, a clean chit was indirectly given to her by the IO, wherein,
now he had deposed that the said girl namely Baby was used by the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 74. The investigation conducted by the IO is further shrouded in
suspicion, qua the role and involvement of the said girl, who was seen in
the video, Ex. P-2A, as the PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh had categorically
deposed during his cross examination that "It is correct that victim had
stated to me that one girl had called him on his mobile, but I had not
made any investigation regarding the said call made to the victim by the
said girl." Furthermore, PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh had also categorically
deposed that "There was no other girl involved in the offence alleged in
this FIR, other than the girl visible in the video recording." 75. The shoddy investigation conducted by the IO is further
highlighted from his own testimony, wherein, at the time of his cross
examination PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh had went on to depose that "It is
correct that victim had stated that two people came on two motorcycles,
but I had not investigated regarding the said motorcycles." 76. The prosecution is relying extremely heavily on the video
clippings/recordings of the handycam, which was recovered from the
possession of accused Salim. Even if, the fact that the said handycam,
Ex. P-1 could never be played before this Court, since, it could not be Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 77. During the testimony of PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh, the said video
clipping contained in the DVD-R prepared by the FSL, Ex. PW15/P-4
(earlier also exhibited as Ex.P-2A), was played and in the said video
between 01:01:09 and 01:02:03, wherein, the complainant Rajender
Gupta could be seen in a green banyan, while holding his identity card, a
person could be seen standing at his back. The PW14 IO SI Arjun Singh
had categorically deposed that the said video is related to the present
case, however, the person standing on the back was not known to him
and he had not conducted any investigation to find the identity of the
said person. He had also categorically admitted the suggestion that when
the said video clipping starts, a police official is seen standing outside
the office of one Mahan Motor & Properties. He went on to further
categorically deposed that "It is correct that in the entire video recording
filed on the record, many police personnels are visible. I had not made
any investigation from any of those police personnels, as they were not
related to my case." CNR No. DLNE01-000425-2015 FIR No. 739/2015 State Vs. Rizwan & Ors. Page no. 62/68 78. The prosecution could not even establish the essential link of the
chain in custody of the case property, i.e. the handycam and the mic,
which was allegedly sent to FSL Rohini, as per the directions of the IO.
As per the testimony of the MHCM PW7 ASI Kanwar Singh, on
13.08.2015, after receiving the instructions from the IO, he had sent the
exhibits to FSL Rohini through Ct. Nishu Kumar. He had further
deposed that as per the record maintained in the register on 09.03.2017,
the case property was again sent to FSL through Ct. Nishu, as earlier it
could not be deposited as the charger was not available. He made an
endorsement to this effect, Ex. PW7/E and later the FSL report was
brought to the malkhana by Ct. Nishu and he had made the endorsement,
Ex. PW7/F. However, when Ct. Nishu Kumar was examined as PW10,
he had only deposed about him going to FSL Rohini alongwith the
exhibits of this case with RC No. 111/21/15, as he was directed by the
MHCM and the IO, however, he did not depose anything about him
being sent again on 09.03.2017, with the case properties. The said
testimony of PW10 Ct. Nishu Kumar, when appreciated in light of the
categorical testimony of PW7 ASI Kanwar Singh assumes more
importance, since the documents filed alongwith the chargesheet are not
supporting the version of the prosecution witnesses. There is one letter
addressed to Director, FSL Rohini, dated 04.09.2015, wherein, the SHO
PS Khajuri Khas had requested the handing over of the FSL result to Ct.
Suraj Pal. Similar authority letter was issued by SHO PS Khajuri Khas
on 06.10.2015, wherein, he had authorized Ct. Netra Pal to collect the
said results, however, no authority letter in favour of Ct. Nishu Kumar is
filed alongwith the chargesheet. The fact that PW10 Ct. Nishu Kumar Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Conclusion & Findings: Therefore, in the opinion of this Court, there is no doubt that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case beyond reasonable
doubt and hence, accused Rizwan S/o Sh. Shahabuddin, accused Rohit
S/o Sh. Pratap Singh, accused Salim S/o Sh. Shabbir Ahmad, accused
Gulzar S/o Late Sh. Islam and accused Sherdeen @ Shera S/o Sh. Babu
Khan are acquitted of the charges for committing the offences
punishable u/s 120-B IPC, 1860 and u/s 364-A R/w section 34 of IPC,
1860 and they shall be set at liberty. 85. The accused persons have already filed their bail bonds u/s 437A Cr.PC and the same shall remain in force for a period of six months from
today. All the other bail bonds/surety bonds stands canceled and the
earlier surety except for surety given u/s 437A Cr.PC stands discharged. 86. The case property, if any, be released to the rightful owner as per the
law and the applicable rules, subject to the orders of the Hon'ble Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 87. File be consigned to the record room after due compliance. Announced in the open court on 24.02.2025. This judgment consists of 68 pages and all
of them have been digitally signed by me.