1. In all these appeals filed by the Department as well as the assessees, the main issue involved is fraudulent withdrawals from Animal Husbandry Department (AMD), Government of Bihar, in the fodder scam. Therefore, all these appeals were heard together and are being disposed of by this consolidated order for the sake of convenience. 2. The brief history of the case gathered from papers brought on record and submissions made is that Shri Dipesh Chandak was engaged in the criminal conspiracy of systematic fraudulent withdrawals of funds from the State Exchequer in connivance with the officials of AHD, Government of Bihar, and others. The modus operandi to facilitate this was that purchase orders were placed by AHD on the assessee for supply of feed to the Department. The assessee in turn would raise bogus bills of supply of feed on the Department without actually making them. In support of these supplies, the assessee would raise fictitious purchase vouchers as if purchases have actually been made from the farmers and reflect transportation of the same to the various stores/depots of AHD in Bihar without any actual transportation being done. The fraudulent amount so withdrawn used to be drawn from bank account and thereafter divided among the various conspirators whereas in the books of account it would be reflected as if the payment has been made to the farmer-suppliers and the transporters. Shri Dipesh Chandak in this fraudulent withdrawal of fund from AHD used the following companies/concerns for raising bogus bills against non-supply of animal feed, etc.: 2.1. The fraudulent withdrawals being made from the Sate Exchequer were detected by the Government of Bihar and FIRs were lodged all over the State against the conspirators. Apprehending that the enquiry shall be scuttled, the matter came up before the Hon'ble High Court at Patna for handing over of the investigation to CBI in C.W.J.C. No. 602 of 1996 (R). The Sate of Bihar filed an affidavit in which it stated: ITA Nos. 188,189 and 191/Pat/2001 (Dipesh Chandak): 3. Basing on the statement made by the assessee before the designated Court of CBI, the AO initiated proceeding under Section 144/147 and passed orders for all the aforesaid assessment years and held that since Shri Dipesh Chandak appears to be the main beneficiary of the payments from AHD in the names of the various concerns controlled by him against which he has not been able to produce any iota of evidence of having incurred any expenses, the whole of the receipts from the AHD, Bihar, against fake bills totalling to Rs. 2,62,92,007, Rs. 1,97,07,541and Rs. 1,38,30,094, respectively for the said assessment years in the names of the following concerns during the relevant previous years as per information available from various sources wore taxed as income of the assessee on substantive basis: 4. Being aggrieved, the assessee preferred appeals before the CIT(A) for all the said assessment years. The CIT(A) following his own order in the case of Dipesh Chandak & Sons (HUF) for asst. yr. 1991 92, wherein detailed discussions have been made, has held that the fraudulently withdrawn sum from the AHD did not constitute income of the assessee within the meaning of Section 2(24) of the Act and, accordingly, deleted the additions made in the hands of the assessee-individual. It would be relevant to quote the relevant portion of the order of the CIT(A) in the case of Dipesh Chandak & Sons (HUF), referred to above, while deleting the addition made by the AO, as under: 5. Hence, these appeals by the Department. Various identical grounds have been raised. However, the main issue which the Department agitates before the Tribunal, centres round the treatment of AHD receipts. According to the Department, the CIT(A) was wrong in not holding the AHD receipts fraudulently withdrawn from the Government Exchequer as his income for all the said assessment years under appeal. In regard to other grounds involving small additions, the learned senior standing counsel, appearing on behalf of the Department, did not seriously argue on those grounds. He mainly concentrated his arguments on AHD receipts. To summarise, his arguments were in the following manner: 7. The learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the assessees, on the other hand, relied on the orders of the CIT(A), That apart, he argued the case at great length narrating the facts of the case. His submission is summarized as under: Due to the truthfulness of the statement given by Shri Chandak, the trial was successful and out of 36, 32 accused were found guilty. He reiterated that the authenticity and truthfulness of the statement of Shri Dipesh Chandak was the main testimony of the trial. (c) Evident from the aforesaid statement and the trial Court judgment shall be that the entire activity of raising of bogus bills and withdrawing of money from Government Exchequer was done in a systematic manner, whereby such fraudulently withdrawn money has been shared amongst Dr. SB Sinha and other various Government officials named in the statement, the assessee himself and the politicians. It is not a case where there has been any actual sale or purchase and that the conspiracy can be treated as any business activity. The admitted position in this case is that a criminal proceeding has been instituted. The accused has been identified and he has admitted all frauds and siphoning of funds. Partial recovery of the money, which was misappropriated, has already been done by the CBI. All the assets of the accused have been put under attachment. Other recipients of the fund have been investigated and the assets have either been seized or under the restrained and the prohibitory order of the CBI. In some cases, jail sentence has been awarded. (d) In a case like this, where an assessee is not left with any money unto himself, he has already surrendered the sum fraudulently realised, given full account of the money lying with the other persons who are parties with him to such fraudulent act and is not left with anything to suffer tax - by bringing this amount to tax in his hand, what benefit will accrue to the State, except raising a hypothetical, unreal and useless demand? The issue, therefore, has to be examined in the aforesaid parameter. (e) That Section 4 of the IT Act brings to charge income of an assessee earned during the year. In a case where money which has been fraudulently withdrawn is within the knowledge of the original owner and the original owner is pursuing recovery and the persons involved in the criminal act of fraud have already surrendered and admitted of their crime, in such a scenario how would that amount constitute the receipt which can be termed as income within the meaning of Section 5 to be brought to tax under Section 4 of the IT Act. In order to bring to tax a receipt, as already stated, an assessee should have unflinching right of ownership and disposition, control and user. Here in this case, everything belonging to the accused is under attachment of the State, who is claiming ownership over the money and the ownership over the money is not refuted or denied by the appellant. In such a case, if still another wing of the State wants to tax that amount which belongs to it, that will amount to taxing an amount which belongs to the State and not to the appellant. (f) Referring to Sections 2(24) , 2(45) and 5 of the IT Act, 1961, it was submitted that it is the receipt which bears income character received or deemed to be received, accrues or arises or is deemed to accrue or arise in India during such year or accrues or arises to an assessee outside India during such year and is computed as per the provisions of IT Act under the heads of income as defined in Section 14 can be brought to tax. Admittedly, the defrauded fund, the owner of which is aware of such a fraud and the recipient admitted the same, the Police has already identified the recipient of money and recovered the amount, cannot be considered as income within the meaning of Section 2(24) chargeable to tax under Section 4 and this cannot form the basis of computing total income as per Section 2(45) r/ws. 5 of IT Act, 1961 . (g) That the recoveries of defrauded funds are based on the claim of the State that the money belongs to them and not of those who have withdrawn the money. The conspirators who have fraudulently withdrawn the money do not have any ownership right on the same and, therefore, the money so fraudulently withdrawn be recovered and returned back to the State and those involved in the criminal conspiracy be criminally prosecuted for having indulged into a criminal act under the Indian Penal Code . (h) Here in this case, everything belonging to the accused assessee is under attachment of the State, who is claiming ownership over the money and the ownership over the money is not refuted or denied by the appellant. In such a case, if still another wing of the State wants to tax that amount which belongs to itself, that will amount to taxing an amount which belongs to the State and not to the appellant. (i) In regard to AO's allegation that the assessee having falsely debited the cost of purchases against bogus receipt and payment of 80 per cent and further amount spent on AHD officials and others being illegal, the same is disallowable under Section 37 and the entire amount needs to be brought to tax in the hands of the assessee, the assessee's counsel explained that while the appellant was merely raising the bills, others were facilitating payments on the basis of such bills and the withdrawals were being shared amongst all of them. Therefore, it is not the claim of the assessee that he earned income and he has booked bogus expenditure to set off the same against such income. In fact, it was a joint operation by virtue of which the money was fraudulently withdrawn from the Government Exchequer. (j) Attention of the Bench was drawn to the statement of Shri Chandak recorded under Section 306 of Cr.PC before the Trial Court wherein he has given detailed account of share of booty amongst the various co-conspirators and expenditure incurred on gratification, etc. Out of the total fraudulent receipts, 80 per cent was distributed directly to Dr. SB Sinha and on his instructions to various other AHD officials named in the statement. Further, out of assessee's own share of booty of 20 per cent, 4 per cent was paid to the lower grade office staff of AHD. Further, 4 to 5 per cent was spent on various statutory taxes, office maintenance and settling of bills, etc. In addition to the above, further substantial amount has been spent on gratification to several high officials of AHD, such as, on their tours, travels, lodging and boarding, shopping, etc. over a period of ten years. After incurring all such expenses out of assessee's own share of 20 per cent, the assessee was left with a sum approx. of Rs. 1.34 crores in cash, which was ultimately seized by the CBI on the basis of revelation made by him. Therefore, nothing remains left with the assessee out of his booty of 20 per cent. (k) The learned Counsel distinguished the case laws/decisions relied upon by the learned senior standing counsel of the Department. According to him, the moot question which requires to be considered in the case of the assessee has neither been considered nor examined in those cases referred to by the Department. In those cases, the assessees had not been accepted as approvers and neither they have made any statement before any inquiry committee or Court of law giving details of gamut of the scam and the ultimate destination of the defrauded sum. Here in the case of the assessee, his statement was found absolutely gainful to the Department as evidence in the trial. Doubt has not been expressed by any authority about the authenticity and truthfulness of the statement recorded under Section 306 of Cr.PC. This truthful statement of the assessee has been made the basis for the trial of case and consequent conviction. Therefore, the scenario of the cases relied upon by the Department is altogether different to the actual state of affairs of the assessee's case. (1) The learned Counsel endorsed the stand of the learned senior standing counsel that the income taken in the hands of various entities through whom the assessee ventured the scam should not be taxed in their hands. If at all it is taxable on the facts and circumstances of the case and according to law, the same is required to be taxed in the hands of the assessee only. Although on the given facts the same is also not taxable in the hands of the assessee. (m) The learned Counsel concluded by saying that in a case like the present assessee, where only temporary parking of the defrauded sum remained with the appellant which belonged to the State, the appellant cannot be brought within the framework of Section 5 to constitute income chargeable to tax under Section 4 of the IT Act. In this view of the matter, the reliance on the decisions cited by the Department shall be totally misplaced. 8. We have heard the parties and carefully considered their rival submissions. We have also perused the documents placed in the paper book by either side including the other evidence available on record. Brief history of the case has been given above in this order. The main question put to us is whether a defrauded amount, the owner of which is aware of such a fraud and the Police has already identified the recipients of money, prosecution launched and defrauded sum recovered from the recipients, the assessee having already admitted the fraud, can be considered as income within the meaning of Sub-section (24) of Section 2 chargeable to income-tax under Section 4 of the IT Act, 1961 and can form the basis of computing the total income in terms of Sub-section (45) of Section 2 r/w Section 5 of the IT Act, 1961. 8.1. For this purpose, it is absolutely essential to examine the provisions of Sub-section (24) of Section 2 , Sub-section (45) of Section 2 , Section 4 and Section 5 and then to proceed further. Section 2(24) defines income as below: Explanation-For the purposes of this sub-clause,: Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, the expression "Keyman insurance policy" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Explanation to Clause (10D) of Section 10 ; (xii) any sum referred to in Clause (va) of Section 28 . If we examine each and every clause of this sub-section, it shall be abundantly clear that a receipt of the nature in this case does not fall under any of the sub-clauses listed in Section 2(24) , which are (i) to (xii). Section 2(45) defines total income as under: Explanation 1-Income accruing or arising outside India shall not be deemed to be received in India within the meaning of this section by reason only of the fact that it is taken into account in a balance sheet prepared in India. Explanation 2.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that income which has been included in the total income of a person on the basis that it has accrued or arisen or is deemed to have accrued or arisen to him shall not again be so included on the basis that it is received or deemed to be received by him in India. 8.2. From the reading of the aforesaid sections, it is evident that it is the receipt which bears income character received or deemed to be received, accrues or arises or is deemed to accrue or arise in India during such year or accrues or arises to an assessee outside India during such year and is computed as per the provisions of IT Act under the heads of income as defined in Section 14 which can be brought to tax. The word "income" pre-supposes two important conditions-(1) a receipt on which the recipient should have absolute command, control and right of disposition and (ii) the transferor of such funds in the hands of recipient should have divested all rights in favour of the recipient. If the transfer of such income retains a lien or claim over such receipt, then such a receipt shall either be a loan or accommodation or illegal acquisition which can be recovered by the owner by appropriate legal action. 8.3. Now, if we come to the facts of the case in hand, the same are in seriatim as below: 8.4. On the above factual position, it is to be decided whether the entire sum of fraudulent withdrawals from AHD was to be treated as income and taxed in the assessee's hand or the remaining 20 per cent would be taxed or nothing would be taxed in his hands. As already stated, Section 4 of the IT Act brings to charge income of an assessee earned during the year. In a case where money which has been fraudulently withdrawn is within the knowledge of the original owner and the original owner is pursuing recovery and the persons involved in the criminal act of fraud have already surrendered and admitted of their crime, in such a scenario, such amount cannot constitute income within the meaning of Section 5 to be brought to tax under Section 4 of the IT Act. In order to bring to tax a receipt, as already stated above, an assessee should have unflinching right of ownership and disposition, control and user. Here in this case, everything belonging to the accused is under attachment of the State, who is claiming ownership over the money and the ownership over the money is not refuted or denied by the appellant. In such a case, we are in agreement with the contention of the assessee's learned Counsel that if still another wing of the State wants to tax that amount which belongs to it, that will amount to taxing an amount which belongs to the State and not to the appellant. 8.5. Further, from the statement of the assessee before the CBI, whose statement has been accepted by several authorities as true and full disclosure, the distribution of fraudulent fund and expenditure on gratification during the span of 10 years has become evident. 80 per cent of such fraudulent withdrawal has been straightway given to one Dr. SB Sinha and his other associates on his instruction. Out of the remaining 20 per cent with the assessee, it is seen that 4 per cent has been paid to lower cadre of the AHD officials, 4 to 5 per cent on various statutory taxes, office maintenance, etc.; considerable amount spent on gratification to AHD officials and for self-entertainment with them and the remaining cash of approx. Rs. 1.34 crores found at his residence/office had been seized by the CBI. Therefore, it appears that after the division of defrauded sum amongst the conspirators and subsequent expenditure as indicated above, there remains almost nothing left with the assessee. 8.6. It is pertinent to mention here that in his statement under Section 306 of Cr.PC, the assessee confessed that he used to keep the cash belonging to Dr. Sinha with him for utilising the same as per his instruction. It is also confessed that the said money was handed over to him by the assessee after the break of the AHD scam. The truthfulness of this confession has not been doubted by any authority after considering the evidences/documents seized from the possession of the assessee and moreso, when taking this statement of the assessee as true, the trial was concluded. 8.7. Further, a person is supposed to suffer tax and pay tax out of the income at his disposal, because he is the absolute owner of the sum which he has acquired by way of income and which is his earning. In a case like this, where an assessee did not have at any stage the actual ownership over that defrauded receipt and was ultimately after distribution and seizure left with any money unto himself to suffer tax, given full account of the money lying with the other persons who are parties with him to such fraudulent act-by bringing this defrauded amount belonging to the State to tax in his hand, would result in raising a hypothetical and unreal demand. Therefore, in the view of the facts and circumstances of the case as detailed above, we are of the considered opinion that the money withdrawn fraudulently from the AHD by the assessee having been established to be of the State's Exchequer cannot be treated as income of the assessee in view of Section 2(24) chargeable to income-tax under Section 4 of the IT Act, 1961, and cannot form the basis of computing the total income in terms of Sub-section (45) of Section 2 r/w Section 5 of the IT Act, 1961. 9. The learned senior standing counsel has relied upon some judicial pronouncements in support of the Department's stand. But those decisions, in our opinion, have been rendered on different set of facts than the present one before us. (i) In the case of CTT v. Piara Singh , the assessee was engaged in the business, though illegal, of smuggling. Therefore, the very concept of earning income is totally different. In the case of the assessee, he was not engaged in any business, legal or illegal, but his activity of withdrawing sum fraudulently from the AHD without making any actual supply of animal feed was the result of systematic conspiracy with other officials of AHD to defraud the State. Further, the ownership of money earned out of smuggling in the case of Piara Singh (supra) vested with that person, whereas in the case of the assessee, it has been admitted that the State has claimed to be owner of the fraudulently withdrawn sum. (ii) In the case of Little Oak Pharmaceuticals v. Asstt CIT [IT(SS)A. No. 28/Pat/1998, order dt. 21st Dec, 2002], the assessee therein all along claimed that purchases made by it and supplies made to AHD were genuine and expenditure on such transaction was thus genuine. However, investigation conducted by the Department established that both the purchases were bogus and hence the receipts shown by that assessee were taken as income and taxed accordingly. Whereas, in the case before us, it was the claim of the assessee and duly accepted by several authorities conducting enquiry and judging the scam that the purchases and supplies reflected in the books were bogus and were merely a tool to defraud the State Exchequer. Therefore, there is at all no relevancy and similarness in these two cases. (iii) In the case of Deepak Kr. Singh/Mahendia Pratap Singh v. Asstt. CIT ITA Nos. 175 & 176/Pat/2000 and ITA Nos. 296 & 297/Pat/01, order dt. 24th Jan., 2002 it was the case of the assessee that Jt. Director of CBI in his press release has opined that 20 per cent of the receipts remained in the hands of the alleged supplier while 80 per cent had gone in the pockets of politicians, AHD officials and middlemen and as such the assessee be taxed in respect of his receipt of 20 per cent The Tribunal did not give any weight to such stand of the assessee as the assessee failed to reveal the names of the recipients of that 80 per cent money which was treated by the Tribunal as an illegal act of giving bribe by the assessee. But in the case of the assessee before us, the scenario is something different. The statement of the assessee that out of the total fraudulent withdrawals from AHD, 80 per cent was given to Dr. SB Sinha and other officials of AHD on his instruction named in his statement and out of the balance 20 per cent after meeting all the expenditures on gratification, etc., Rs. 1.34 crores were found and seized from his possession, was found to be true and authenticated on the basis of documents seized from his possession and this statement, as stated above, was the basis of conclusion of trial. Therefore, in the referred case, the Tribunal came to the conclusion on the basis that the assessee could not reveal the names of the recipients and establish the authenticity of its claim, whereas in this case the assessee revealed the names of several recipients of defrauded money and his statement has been accepted as true. (iv) In the case of Addl. CIT v. Sahay Properties & Inv . Co. (P) Ltd. , the assessee claimed that as the ownership of the house property duly acquired vide a conveyance deed was not registered, the rental income accruing therefrom is not taxable in his hand. The Court held that whether legal or beneficial owner, it would not take away the right of the assessee to remain in possession of the property and to realize and receive the rents and profits therefrom to appropriate the entire income for its own use. In the case before us, the ownership of the defrauded fund was claimed and accepted to be of the State and not of the assessee. In the said case the sale was not denied by the vendor although registered deed was not executed. Whereas in this case, the amount was withdrawn fraudulently from the State Exchequer and the State is pursuing to recover its money. Therefore, the facts and circumstances of both these cases are clearly distinguishable. (v) Similar was the position in the case Of CIT v. Poddar Cement (P) Ltd. . In that case also, the dispute was about the ownership of the house property and income therefrom. For the reasons stated in (iv) above, this decision of Hon'ble apex Court is not applicable to the case of the assessee. (vi) In the case of Dipesh Chandak v. Union of India (present assessee) relied on by the Department and , was relating to prosecution under Sections 277 and 278 of IT Act. However, this judgment of Patna High Court has been quashed by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Criminal Appeal No. 1032 of 2004, judgment dt. 17th Sept., 2004, reported as Dipesh Chandak v. Union of India : . The Court opined that the Government should consider not prosecuting the appellant under the relevant sections and further directed that the prosecution will stand stayed till trial of the cases in which pardon is granted is over. The issue before us is apparently totally different. (vii) In the case of Indraprastha Agencies v. CIT (supra), facts and decision arrived at are similar to that of Deepak Kr. Singh/Mahendra Pratap Singh v. Asstt. CIT (supra) dealt with by us in item (iii) above. For the reasons mentioned therein, the cited case of Hon'ble Jharkhand High Court is distinguishable and does not apply to this case of the assessee. (viii) Coming to Tribunal, Third Member decision in the case of Dy. CIT v. Murrah Live Stock Agency , (supra), the learned Third Member held that in the face of evidence that assessee was also involved in large scale scam of bogus supplies to the Government, of Bihar in respect of which FIRs have been registered by CBI, the AO was justified in entertaining the belief that the assessee had inflated purchases and expenses requiring reassessment. Here in the case of the assessee, admittedly there was no actual purchase or sale of animal feed. These were shown in the books with a view to use it as tool to defraud the State Exchequer which is admitted by the Department, prosecuting authority and the assessee and found to be correct by the trial Court. There is, therefore, no similarity in these two cases. Similar is the position in respect of Tribunal's order referred to by the Department in ITA Nos. 380 and 381/Pat/2000, order dt. 27th Feb., 2004 in the case of M.S. Bedi v. Jt. CIT in ITA No. 268/Pat/1999, order dt. 13th April, 2006 in the case of Ram Nandan Singh v. Asstt. CIT and in ITA No. 251/Pat/2001, order dt. 26th Feb., 2002 in the case of Dy. CIT v. Hindustan Live Stock Agency . 10. The next grievance of the Department is against deletion of disallowance of interest claimed on loans of Rs. 58,301 in asst. yr. 1987-88, Rs. 82,766 in asst. yr. 1988-89 and Rs. 2,21,576 for asst. yr. 1990-91. The learned senior standing counsel of the Department during the course of argument did not emphasis much on these disallowances being petty in nature. However, after hearing the assessee and consulting the evidence on record, we do not find any infirmity in the order of the CIT(A) on this issue. The disallowances, therefore, stand deleted. 11. The next ground was against the direction of the CIT. (A) to adopt the share income of the assessee from M/s Quality Chemical Suppliers in asst. yrs. 1987-88 and 1988-89 which was not pressed by the Department during course of hearing. The same is, therefore, not considered and the order of the CIT(A) on this issue stands confirmed. 12. The learned senior standing counsel did not press the ground regarding chargeability of interest under Sections 139(8) and 215 of the Act for asst. yrs. 1987-88 and 1988-89 also. That being so, we confirm the order of the CIT(A) on this issue. 13. In view of the above, the Revenue's appeals for asst. yrs. 1987-88, 1988-89 and 1990-91 in the case of Dipesh Chandak (Indv.) stand dismissed. ITA Nos. 190 and 26 to 29 (Pat) of 2001 (Dipesh Chandak & Sons-HUF) 14. These appeals are by the Department. The main issue common to each of the asst. yrs. 1990-91 to 1994-95 is against the finding of the CIT(A) that the receipts from AHD, Government of Bihar, by way of fake supply of goods do not constitute income in the hands of the assessee-HUF and consequential deletion of addition made in the assessee's hand. 14.1. As stated above in this order, Shri Dipesh Chandak through his various entities, including the present appellant, was engaged in siphoning of the Government fund by way of raising bogus bills of fake supply of animal feed to AHD, Government of Bihar. The issue whether these fraudulent receipts are to be assessed as income in the hands of the Shri Dipesh Chandak as individual or in the hands of various entities including the assessee HUF has already been dealt with in great detail in the case of assessee's individual case in ITA Nos. 188, 189 and 191/Pat/2001. There is no dispute amongst the parties before us that the receipts from AHD, Government of Bihar, are not to be taken for consideration in the hands of the entities through whom scam was conducted by Shri Dipesh Chandak, with which we agree. Further, we have already held in the case of Shri Dipesh Chandak that the receipts from AHD do not constitute income in his hands. In view of the above conclusion, we uphold the order of the CIT(A) on this issue and dismiss this ground of the Department for all the assessment years under appeal. 15. The Department for all the assessment years under appeal agitates that the CIT(A) failed to appreciate that Shri Dipesh Chandak received sum from AHD in name of the assessee HUF controlled by him but has not been able to prove any expenditure against such receipt. As we have already held in the preceding paras that receipt from AHD is not to be considered in the hands of the assessee HUF, the impugned ground raised by the Department has become infructuous and hence dismissed. 16. All other grounds raised by the Revenue in these appeals are, in fact, arguments in support of main issue raised in ground No. 1 above, which we have already dealt with. Therefore, these grounds in argument shape are not required to be considered separately. Furthermore, during course of hearing before us, the learned senior standing counsel of the Department concentrated his arguments on the main issue and did not contest other minor issues specifically. That being so, these grounds for all the assessment years under appeal have rendered infructuous and hence dismissed. 17. In the result, the appeals by the Department in the case of Dipesh Chandak & Sons HUF stand dismissed. ITA No. 197/Pat/ 2001; asst. yr. 1993-94 (Ankit Industrial Gases): 18. In this appeal by the Department, the first ground reads as under: 19.1. We have heard the parties and perused the material available on record. The CIT(A), considering the eligibility certificate for deferment of payment of sales-tax issued by the Commercial Taxes Department, Government of Bihar, CBDT circulars and case law, deleted the disallowance. The assessee's learned Counsel also invited our attention to the CBDT Circular No. 496, found reported in (1988) 68 CTR (St) 109 : (1988) 169 ITR (St) 53, in support of the claim of the assessee. After perusing all these documents, we find no reason to interfere with the order of the CIT(A) on this issue. This ground of the Department thus fails. 20. The next issue in this appeal is against deletion of addition of Rs. 5,00,000 on account of share application money received by the assessee company from Prakashnath Towers (P) Ltd. The CIT(A) had restored the matter back to the file of the AO for fresh adjudication. It is found that the AO subsequently vide his order dt. 22nd March, 2002 passed under Section 143(3) / 147 / 251 has accepted the claim of the assessee. Therefore, this ground of the Department has no consequence being infructuous and hence dismissed. 21. The appeal of the Department for asst. yr. 1993-94 fails. 22. In these appeals, all the three grounds are co-related. The AO made addition of Rs. 5,99,204 in respect of unexplained loan from M/s Shashi Investment & Finance (P) Ltd. Consequential interest on such loan of Rs. 1,72,250 and interest of Rs. 90,396 on further loan has also been disallowed and added to the total income of the assessee. The AO disallowed the claim of the assessee on the ground that the assessee failed to produce any confirmation of account and the ledger copies of the interest paid to the parties. Before the CIT(A), the assessee produced all these documents on the basis of which he deleted the additions. 22.1. We find that the CIT(A), in violation of Rule 46A of the IT Rules has entertained this fresh evidence without affording any opportunity to the AO to examine the same. As a matter of principles of natural justice, he ought to have sent these documents to the AO and call for report. That not being done, the order of the CIT(A) on this issue suffers from nullity. On the given facts, we deem it proper to restore the matter back to the file of the AO with a direction to verify the documents filed before the CIT(A) and further documents, if any, may be filed by the assessee before him. The assessee is also directed to co-operate with the AO in this regard. With these directions, we dispose of the matter as above. 23. This appeal of the Department is partly allowed for statistical purposes. ITA Nos. 443 to 446/Pat/2004; asst. yrs. 1987-88 to 1990-91 (Dept. v. Quality Chemical Suppliers): 24. The first common ground in the appeals for asst. yrs. 1987-88 to 1990-91 relates to treatment of receipts out of fodder scam in the hands of the assessee. We have already held in the Departmental appeals in the case of Shri Dipesh Chandak (Indv.) that Shri Dipesh Chandak is the concern and not his other entities in respect of the impugned receipt out of fodder scam. The learned senior standing counsel of the Department also concentrated his arguments on pressing the issue that at least 20 per cent receipt should be taken as income in the hands of Shri Dipesh Chandak only and not on other entities. That being the position and for the reasons discussed by us above in the case of Shri Dipesh Chandak (Indv.), the action of the AO in having treated the impugned receipt in the hands of M/s Quality Chemical Suppliers is quashed and that of the CIT(A) is upheld. We order accordingly. This ground of the Department raised in all the aforesaid assessment years is thus dismissed. 25. The next common ground of the Department in these four assessment years pertains to deletion of additions on account of deposits in bank accounts, which are as under: The AO made the impugned additions in the hands of the assessee on protective basis and substantive basis in the hands of Shri Dipesh Chandak. The AO's objection was that the CIT(A) without giving any opportunity of examining the details of the bank deposits to the AO in contravention of Rule 46A of the IT Rules has deleted the additions. It is pertinent to mention here that the substantive assessments made in the hands of Shri Dipesh Chandak for the same additions for asst. yrs. 1987-88, 1988-89 and 1990-91 have been sent back to the file of the AO for fresh adjudication. These bank deposits relate to both, i.e. out of AHD receipts and normal genuine business transactions. The AO in the restored matter deleted the addition made on account of bank deposits which were directly related to fodder scam as it would amount to double taxation in the case of Dipesh Chandak for the asst. yrs. 1987-88 and 1988-89 of Rs. 28,50,024 and Rs. 11,97,840, respectively. The AO for the reason of Rule 46A of the Rules for the said two assessment years, i.e. 1987-88 and 1988-89, challenged the action of the CIT(A) in deleting the addition. We find that the AO himself in the reassessments in respect of Dipesh Chandak for the said years has deleted the addition made on substantive basis. Protective assessments were made in the hands of the assessee (Quality Chemical Suppliers). Therefore, once the addition made in substantive assessment has been deleted on the ground that the bank deposits are already included in the total receipts from AHD and the same has been separately considered in the hands of Shri Dipesh Chandak, there remains no justification to add and assess the same very amount on the pretext of protective assessment in the case of the present assessee. In this view of the matter, the additions made of Rs. 28,50,024 and Rs. 11,97,840 are deleted. 25.1. Insofar as asst. yr. 1989-90 is concerned in respect of the bank deposits out of AHD scam, the CIT(A) quashed the addition on the ground that the same was included in the AHD receipt of Rs. 9,00,000 assessed by the AO in the hands of the assessee and this would amount to double taxation on the same amount. It is pertinent to mention here that this very addition made on substantive basis in the hands of Shri Dipesh Chandak has been deleted by the CIT.(A). That being so, there remains no reason to uphold the addition made on protective basis in the hands of the present assessee by the AO for whatever reason may be. We, therefore, delete the addition of Rs. 8,71,630.68 in asst. yr. 1989-90. 26. Coming to additions made on account of bank deposits out of normal transactions made on protective basis in the hands of this assessee, we find that for the same bank deposits, protective assessments have been made in the case of Shri Dipesh Chandak. The assessments framed in the case of Shri Dipesh Chandak were set aside by the CIT(A) for re-decision in respect of these bank deposits for asst. yrs. 1987-88, 1988-89 and 1990-91. In set aside assessments, the AO struck on his earlier stand in making the additions except for asst. yr. 1990-91 wherein the deposits of Rs. 3,20,350 with OBC, Kolkata have been accepted as explained. For the bank deposits with UBI, Bokaro, the AO has made identical observations in the assessment order in respect of Shri Dipesh Chandak and for our convenience we quote below the observations made in asst. yr. 1987-88 vide order dt. 27th March, 2002 as under: 27. From the observation of the AO himself as quoted above, it is evident that the assessee made him available all possible evidences in support of the bank deposits. The payments received by the assessee from Bokaro Steel Plant were admittedly through account payee cheques. The transactions have been duly recorded in the books of account which are tallied with the bank statement. These are not disputed. Delivery notes duly receipted by Bokaro Steel Plant were also on record. In spite of all these positive evidence, the AO asked the assessee to produce the confirmation from the principal, i.e. Bokaro Steel Plant. The assessee expressed his inability to do so for the reason that the impugned transaction took place almost 15 years back. We find that the AO could not find any irregularity in the books of account or other documents submitted in support of such bank deposits. It is also not disputed that the account payee cheques issued by Bokaro Steel Plant were deposited in the said bank account. Considering all these documents and the order of the CIT(A) in the case of Shri Dipesh Chandak, we do not find any justified reason to interfere with the order of the CIT(A) passed in the case of Quality Chemicals Suppliers for asst. yrs. 1987-88, 1988-89 and 1990-91 deleting the additions of Rs. 7,49,508.86, Rs. 21,48,274.14 and Rs. 26,99,896.42, respectively. 28. There remains one more addition in respect of bank deposits of Rs. 32,54,183.08 made in the hands of the assessee (Quality Chemicals Suppliers) for asst. yr. 1989-90 on protective basis. The AO made the addition on the ground that the impugned bank deposit was unexplained. The CIT(A) considered the explanation of the assessee and evidence produced before him, which were identical to those of asst. yrs. 1987-88, 1988-89 and 1990-91 in the case of this assessee, deleted the addition. As already stated above, substantive assessment has been made for the same addition in the hands of Dipesh Chandak. Therefore, once the addition has been considered in substantive measure, there is no need to assess the same amount in protective measure and as such we uphold the order of the CIT(A) for this year also deleting the addition made by the AO on protective basis in the case of this assessee. 29. In this appeal by the Department, the following ground is raised: ITA Nos. 384 to 390/Pat/2004; asst. yrs. 1987-88 to 1993-94 Quality Chemical Suppliers v. Department: