% 27.08.2025 1. The applicant, before this Court having remained under incarceration
 since 05.07.2025, for a period of 1 months and 22 days, is seeking
 indulgence of this Court for grant of bail during pendency of the trial in
 criminal proceedings arising out of FIR No. 15/2025 dated 27.06.2025 for
 alleged offences under Sections 78 (stalking)/ 351(criminal intimidation) of
 the BNS and 66E/67 A of the Information Technology Act , registered at
 P.S. Cyber Police Station North East, Delhi. 2. Per FIR, prosecution/prosecutrix case is that the complainant came
 into contact with the applicant, around November-December 2022 through
 WhatsApp and Instagram. During their interaction, he obtained her nude
 visuals during private video calls and later started blackmailing her. He BAIL APPLN. 3078/2025 Page 1 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:29:40
 threatened to circulate these obscene videos and photographs to her family
 members and relatives unless she complied with his monetary demands.
 2.1 The accused extorted money by using the complainant's bank
 account, later diverting funds to the UPI IDs of his associates. He initially
 transferred a sum of ₹5,37,000/- and demanded her to send his friends
 ₹5,94,210/- through UPI transactions. Additionally, he forced her to
 recharge his mobile and his gaming accounts through threats.
 2.2 When the complainant refused to meet his demands, the accused
 circulated her obscene videos to her family members, causing severe mental
 harassment. The harassment escalated after her engagement on 12.05.2025,
 when he started threatening her fiancé and brother through multiple mobile
 numbers. He even sent obscene content to her brother's number and
 threatened to send the same to her in-laws. 3. In the aforesaid backdrop, I have heard the rival contentions and
 perused the case file. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant would contend that the applicant
 has been falsely implicated in the present case. He would contend that there
 is no independent corroboration of the so-called "viral" video. He would
 further contend that the allegations of blackmail and threats are doubtful
 and fabricated as the complainant never met the applicant physically.
 4.1 The counsel for applicant would submit that the allegations relating
 to extortion of money are false, forged, and unsupported by evidence. He
 would further submit that no such forensic or electronic evidence has been
 produced on record regarding circulation of obscene videos to
 complainant's family. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:29:40
 4.2 Moreover, he would submit that the belated lodging of FIR after one
 and a half months of the alleged incident indicate afterthought,
 malafide intent and raises serious doubts about the genuineness of the
 prosecution story. He would also submit that the allegations of threatening
 to kill complainant's brother and fiancé are bold assertions without any
 material on record. 4.3 Counsel for applicant would submit that the offences alleged under Section 78 /352 BNS and Sections 66E / 67A IT Act, 2000 are not of such
 gravity as to warrant prolonged pre-trial incarceration, particularly when
 investigation is largely documentary and electronic in nature which has
 been seized. Moreover, he would also submit that there is no likelihood of
 the applicant absconding or tampering with the evidence, if granted the
 concession of bail. 4.4. He would further submit that the applicant was arrested on
 05.07.2025 and has been in judicial custody since then. Charge-sheet has
 not yet been filed, and continued incarceration would amount to pre-trial
 punishment. 4.5 The Learned Counsel would also submit that the applicant is a 25-
 year-old unmarried man, belonging to a respectable and educated
 family. He has been working in private employment for several years and
 has a bright career ahead of him. 5. Opposing the above submissions, the learned APP for the State
 argues that the applicant is not entitled to any relief at this stage, on the
 grounds of the severity of allegations. 5.1 The accused has displayed a clear and continuous pattern of digital
 abuse, deceit, and exploitation. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:29:40
 5.2 Learned APP for the State would submit that the applicant moved an
 application for grant of bail before the learned ASJ (NE), KKD but the
 same was dismissed vide order dated 28.07.2025 on the grounds of
 exploitative conduct of the applicant, manner of commission of crime and
 the resultant social disrepute caused by the applicant. 6. Having heard, application deserves to be allowed for the reasons
 stated here in after. 7. There is some substance in the arguments of the learned counsel for
 the applicant on the criminal culpability of the applicant. However, the
 same are matter of trial and can be adjudicated only at the appropriate stage,
 but in light thereof it appears to be a case for bail. 8. Moreover, as per the status report, there remains nothing further to be
 investigated as a draft chargesheet has already been prepared against the
 applicant and is presently under scrutiny with the prosecution branch to be
 filed in due course. Investigation is since complete and there is thus no
 further need for custodial interrogation at this stage. 9. Furthermore, relevant documentary and electronic evidence qua
 applicant herein, has already been seized by the prosecution for forensic
 examination and evidentiary purposes, making the possibility of evidence
 tampering highly remote. The same is beyond the reach of the applicant. 10. The applicant has already remained in custody for 1 month and 22
 days, and the trial is not likely to be concluded any time soon. 11. The applicant is a 25-year-old man who, at the crucial years of his
 career and continued preventive detention would jeopardize his career
 prospects for rest of the life. He is currently engaged in private employment
 for the past several years and has a bright career ahead of him. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:29:40 12. The applicant has no criminal antecedents. There is nothing on record
 to show that he is a flight risk. Further, his continued incarceration would
 serve no useful purpose, particularly when the trial is not likely to conclude
 in the near future. 13. Taking a comprehensive view of the matter, this Court finds no
 further purpose in keeping the applicant in prolonged pre-trial custody. 14. Accordingly, in respect of FIR No. 15/2025 dated 27.06.2025 for
 alleged offences under Sections 78 /351 of the BNS and 66E/67 A of the
 Information Technology Act , registered at P.S. Cyber Police Station North
 East, Delhi the applicant is directed to be released on bail upon furnishing a
 bail bond and surety of equivalent amount, and subject to usual conditions
 as deemed appropriate, to the satisfaction of the learned Trial Court/Duty
 Magistrate, as the case may be. 15. Any observation made herein above is only for the purpose of
 disposing of the instant bail application and not to be construed, in any
 manner, as any expression on the merits of the pending case and the trial
 shall proceed without being influenced either way by the same. 16. Accordingly, the bail application stands disposed of in the above
 terms. ARUN MONGA, J
 AUGUST 27, 2025
 dy BAIL APPLN. 3078/2025 Page 5 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:29:40