This judgment shall dispose of cases of 57

petitioners who had approached the Supreme Court against

the judgment of Full Bench in CWP No. 8421 of 2002 and

their cases have been remanded back by the Supreme Court

i.e. CWP Nos. 8423, 8434, 8585, 8587, 8592, 8595, 8740,

8741, 8742, 8954, 8957, 14429, 8889, 8447, 8446, 8739,

8591, 14187, 13943, 8449, 8594, 8440, 8431, 8441, 8442,

8430, 10796, 8540, 8422, 8590, 8587, 8596, 8421, 14358,

19062, 8593, 14189, 14188, 8587 of 2002, 1548 of 2003 as

well as cases of 24 petitioners who did not approach the

Supreme Court against the order dated 07.07.2003 but filed

the review applications i.e. CWP Nos. 8424, 8429, 8433,
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 9 ]

8547, 8558, 8584, 8586, 8587, 8588, 8589, 14429, 14457,

14599, 10727 of 2002, 2459 of 2003, 1246, 11362 of 2008. The following matters are for disposal which stand

referred to the Full Bench on remand from the Supreme

Court in the case of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon and others v.

State of Punjab 2006(5) JT 352. The judgment and

termination orders of the candidates were set aside. Three

categories of candidates can be segregated for scrutiny. The

first category pertains to the candidates who are tainted.

The second pertains to the candidates who are adversely

effected by the process of selection being vitiated against

the rules. The third set of petitioners are those whose

petitions were dismissed by the Full Bench of this Court on

7.7.2003 and they did not challenge the said order before

the Supreme Court. Their petitions have been revived after

the remand whereby the Hon'ble Supreme Court has set

aside the orders of the Government terminating the

services of those who were appellants in the Supreme

Court. In the year 1998, Punjab Public Service

Commission (for short 'Commission') held examination for

selecting candidates of PCS Judicial and Executive Branches.

The selected candidates were appointed and completed 3

years of probation period in service. Shri Ravinder Pal Singh

Sidhu was the Chairman of the Commission. About `22
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 10 ]

crores were recovered from his possession alleged to be

illegal gratification taken to help candidates in the process

of holding examination/interview/selection of candidates for

jobs in the state. Apart from money recovered the

Investigating Agency collected evidence which was

recorded in statements of the witnesses/accused under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C involving some of the

petitioners and the Chairman of PPSC. F.I.R's were lodged,

trials proceeded and are pending. Pursuant to the directions given by the Supreme

Court, Committee of three Judges of this Court was

constituted. The Committee was to separate the tainted

candidates from the non-tainted candidates, selected to

Executive posts by the Commission, during the

Chairmanship of Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu. The final

analysis of the report dated 8.2.2007 is as under:- CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 11 ]

 Secondly, the process of selection under

 reference (within the ambit of investigation of the

 Vigilance Department), can be described as

 fraudulent, tainted and arbitrary. The said

 processes of selection were clearly rifle and

 abounding with manipulations, carried out by a

 well planned scheme of deception, forgery and

 fraud; executed for showing favour, or for

 consideration. And as such, the entire processes of

 selection, to the premier executive posts, which

 were subject matter of investigation at the hands

 of the Vigilance Department, deserve to be set

 aside in their entirety." Mr. M.C. Berry, Addl. A.G. Punjab has placed on

record affidavit dated 08.11.2012 of Shri Rakesh Singh, IAS,

Chief Secretary, Government of Punjab, stating therein that

pursuant to the Full Bench decision given by this Court in

Sirandeep Singh Panag vs. State of Punjab, in C.W.P No.

1626 of 2003 relating to the selection of PCS (Judicial

Branch), whereby the candidates against whom no criminal

trial/FIR was pending, were ordered to be appointed. SLP

Nos. 2504-2530 of 2010 titled as High Court of Punjab and

Haryana vs. State of Punjab and others were filed against the said judgment . The same were disposed of by Hon'ble

the Supreme Court and the candidates against whom no
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 12 ]

criminal action/trial was pending, were ordered to be

reinstated in service. The matter was considered by the State and the

State has no objection to appoint those candidates who are

not facing the trial as stated in the affidavit. Another affidavit dated 15.01.2013 of Pritam

Singh, PPS, Senior Superintendent of Police, Vigilance

Bureau, Flying Squad-II, Patiala Range, Patiala has been filed

in the Court. In FIR No. 65 dated 5.9.2002 under Sections 8 , 12 P.C. Act 1988 read with Section 120-B IPC, Police Station

Vigilance Bureau, Patiala Mr. Gurcharan Singh Pherurai, Ex-

SSP Ferozepur has been convicted to undergo 2 years RI and

a fine of `10,000/- by the Court of Special Judge, Patiala on

26.11.2012. Apart from this, supplementary challans have

been presented against Mr. Amarbir Singh, Mr. Kamal

Kumar, Mr. Jiwan Kumar Garg, Mr. Sukhwinder Singh Brar,

Mr. Deepak Arora, Ms. Kuljeet Kaur, Mr. Kamaljit Singh, Mr.

Bharat Bhushan, Mr. Randeep Singh and Mr. Bikramjit Singh

on 23.04.2010 and 16.02.2011. The cases are now fixed in

the Court of Special Judge Patiala for 15.02.2013, for

framing of charges. As regards to Rahul Gupta, Sukhpreet Singh and

Rubinderjit Singh Brar, after detailed investigation untraced

report has been filed in the learned trial court. F.I.R No. 67 dated 05.09.2002 u/s 8 , 12 of the
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 13 ] Prevention of Corruption Act read with Section 120-B IPC

registered at P.S. Vigilance Bureau, Patiala has been

registered against the following candidates:- Challan in this case was presented on 21.04.2004

in the Court of Special Judge, Patiala. The case is now fixed

for 31.01.2013. Further proceedings in this case have been

stayed by the this Court in CRM No. 9310 of 2012. F.I.R. No. 24 dated 05.09.2002 u/s 8 , 12 of the

Prevention of Corruption Act read with Section 120-B IPC

registered at P.S. Vigilance Bureau, Patiala has been

registered against Parshotam Singh Sodhi. The case is now

fixed for 23.01.2013. F.I.R. No. 66 dated 05.09.2002 u/s 8 , 12 of the

Prevention of Corruption Act read with Section 120-B IPC

registered at P.S. Vigilance Bureau, Patiala has been

registered against BDPO canddiates, Sarabvijay Singh, Daljit

Singh and Harpreet Singh. Challan was put in the Court on

30.08.2004 and charges were framed on 18.05.2005. The

accused Sarabvijay Singh has been convicted to undergo

one year R.I. and fine of `5,000/- and Daljit Singh and
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 14 ]

Harpreet Singh, BDPO have been acquitted. F.I.R. No. 68 dated 05.09.2002 u/s 8 , 12 of the

Prevention of Corruption Act read with Section 120-B IPC

registered at P.S. Vigilance Bureau, Patiala has been

registered against Harshanbir Singh, Varinderbir Singh,

Naresh Kumar, Gurbir Singh and Gurjit Singh. The accused

Naresh Kumar, Gurbir Singh and Gurjit Singh have been

acquitted on 29.07.2011 whereas Harshanbir Singh &

Varinderbir Singh have been convicted to undergo 2 years RI

and `10,000/- fine by the Court of Special Judge Patiala on

12.07.2012. Supplementary challan in this case was

presented against Kuldip Mittal (D.S.P) and second

supplementary challan was presented against Sukhbir Singh

Thind (Principal) and Ashish Kumar Lecturar, Patiala. The

case is now fixed for 22.01.2013 for framing of charge. The candidates who were considered by the

Committee in the report but no case was registered against

them are; 1.Balkaran Singh 2. Yadwinder Singh 3. Shish Pal. 4.

 Harsuhinder P. Singh 5. Karanjit Singh 6.Haridey Pal

 Singh 7. Dilbagh Singh 8. Anita Darshi 9. Amandeep

 Bhatti

 Heard counsel for the parties. The Constitution in its preamble specifies the

objectives which are the basic structure of our constitution.
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 15 ]

One of the object in the preamble is "equality of status and

of opportunity; and to promote among them all. The

preamble of the constitution cannot be amended in exercise

of powers under Article 368 of the Constitution. The "basic

structure" of the Constitution has been discussed by

Supreme Court in Keshvananda Bharti Sripadagalvaru and

others v. State of Kerala and another AIR 1973 SC 1461. The

basic features of the Constitution, namely, secularism,

democracy and freedom of individual would always subsist

in the welfare state. The power to amend a Constitution as

guaranteed under Article 368 of the Constitution is to fulfil

the obligations imposed on the State within the limits of the

basic structure of the Constitution. The power is to be

exercised to make state an effective instrument for social

good. The State is under an obligation under the

Constitution to make available to all the citizens of the

country the real benefits of freedom in a democratic way.

Vigilance is the price that the citizens have to pay like any

other democratic society has to pay to safeguard the

democratic values enshrined in the Constitution. Every

government has to exercise the power to carry out their

place and programmes which they believe in public interest.

The Constitution plan is to eradicate poverty without

destruction of individual freedoms. Following the law laid down by Hon'ble the
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 16 ]

Supreme Court in Keshvanand Bharti'Sripadagalvaru 's case

(supra) we shall now examine what is the scope and object

of the Public Service Commission which is set up as

constitutional authority to make selection and recruitment of

public servants. Article 315 to 323 of the Constitution lay

down the procedure for creation of a public service

commission with the object of making selection on the basis

of merit by open competition of civil servants. The Supreme

Court in Ram Kamal Kashyap and others v. Union of India

2009 (9) SCC 378 has observed that for the efficient

functioning of a democracy, it is imperative that the public

service commissions are manned by persons of highest skill

and persons with irreproachable integrity, so that the

selections to various public posts will be immunized of all

sorts of extraneous pressures of personal favoritism and are

made solely on consideration of merit. The Supreme Court

was examining suspension of 8 members and Chairman of

the Haryana Public Service Commission by the Hon'ble

Governor of Haryana while exercising powers under Article

317 of the Constitution since the Public Service Commission

was a Constitutional creation, the principles of service law

i.e. opportunity of hearing before passing an order adverse

to the public servant are not available. In (2000) 4 SCC 309

Ram Ashray Yadav (Dr.), Chairman, Bihar Public Service

Commission has highlighted the role of Public Service
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 17 ]

Commission. The observations of Supreme Court in

paragraphs 4 and 34 are as under:- The report of the Committee dated 8.2.2007 is

being examined in the back drop of the judicial

pronouncements of the Supreme Court highlighting the

importance of constitution of the Public Service

Commissions, their role and their duties, responsibilities and

eventually to come to the expectation of a common man

who is, as per the preamble, are entitled to equality of

status and opportunity. Three questions come up for consideration before

this Court are as under:- Question No.1

 The word 'taint' as per the New Shorter Oxford

English Dictionary (Vol.-II) can be expressed to mean a

trace, 'stain' or a 'blemish'. It denotes some evil quality, a

contaminating or corrupting influence. It can lead to mean

an imbue with any thing objectionable or to contaminate or

infect. The word 'taint' when used as a verb means

dishonest, destroy integrity, vitiate, tarnish and degenerate

morally. The names of the twenty three candidates against

whom FIRs have been registered are as under:- CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 20 ] 19.Baljit Singh Sandhu. 20.Jarnail Singh. 21.Rajinder Singh Sidhu. 22.Pritpal Singh. 23.Gurdev Singh. All the petitioners who approached the Supreme

Court and against whom FIRs have been registered

definitely carry a trace, stain or blemish that they were

tainted. The FIRs were registered when during investigation

the Vigilance Bureau recorded statements of Ravinderpal

Singh Sidhu, Jagman Singh and Randhir Singh Gill under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. The modus operandi of

conducting the manipulations in the written examination

was disclosed by them. Question Papers were given to Shri

Jagman Singh to be shown to the candidates who were to

appear in the written examination conducted by the Punjab

Public Service Commission. The Question Papers were to be

collected from the official residence of Shri Ravinderpal

Singh Sidhu from his House No. 914, Sector 39, Chandigarh

and some times to be collected from the mother of Shri

Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu from House No. 549, Sector 10,

Chandigarh. The candidates were then shown these question

papers during the night preceding the examination at the

residence of Shri Jagman Singh. The above procedure was

also followed at the residence of Smt. Pritpal Kaur, mother of

Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu. Shri Jagman Singh was

deputed to the residences of influential persons for showing
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 21 ]

the question papers to the concerned candidates. The investigation showed that candidates who

had been shown favour were helped by awarding excessive

marks than they deserved as compared to others by the

Examiners. The Examiners were under instructions to carry

out strict marking for those candidates who were not to be

shown any favour. Pursuant to the statements made by Shri Randhir

Singh Gill and Shri Jagman Singh huge recovery of `22

crores has been made. Apart from that, the modus operandi

of conducting written examination, giving of excess marks in

the interview, the acquisition of money, property at their

instance beyond their sources had been discovered.

Fictitious bank accounts were opened in the name from

where an amount of `22 crore was recovered. Apart from the

cash recovered, information regarding shares and

debentures also came to light. A company by the name of

'Time Information Service Pvt. Ltd.' with an initial investment

of `10 lacs was opened. The investigation found that most of

the ill gotten assets and money were created in the name of

this company and while executing most of the sale

agreements/ deeds the address of the directors was

changed to conceal the same. Counsel for the petitioners have vehemently

argued that all the petitioners have paid huge amount of
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 22 ]

money to secure their selection, is not founded by any

direct evidence collected by the Vigilance Bureau till date.

Apart from the allegations in the statements made by Shri

Randhir Singh Gill, Shri Jagman Singh and Shri Prem Sagar

under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C., there is not sufficient

material to categorize these petitioners as tainted. The

petitioners have put in 3 years of service as probationers.

Their services could not be terminated without following the

principles of Punjab Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal)

Rules 1970. Some of the prosecution witnesses have

resiled from their statements during the trial. The report of

the Committee dated 8.2.2007 is not liable to be accepted. All the candidates whose cases were considered

by the Committee were named by Shri Randhir Singh Gill

and Shri Prem Sagar in their statements under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. Explaining the modus operandi adopted by

Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu to make the selections to PCS

(Executive) in an unfair and vitiated manner. The details of

30 such candidates has been made who had been selected

after making payment of the agreed consideration amount

to Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu or his mother Smt. Pritpal

Kaur and in a few cases to Shri Jagman Singh. The association of Shri Amarjit Singh Sidhu, a

member of Punjab Public Service Commission, in the process

of interview for selecting candidates by way of direct
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 23 ]

recruitment to PCS (Executive) Branch and its allied services

demonstrated an arrangement which led to selection of

favoured candidates. Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu and Shri

Amarjit Singh Sidhu awarded same marks to virtually all the

selected candidates. It can easily be described as a case of

manipulation and an arrangement where one helped the

other. This Court is not examining whether the evidence

collected for recording FIR was sufficient to lead to

conviction of all the candidates. The effect of the

prosecution witnesses turning hostile would be considered

by the criminal court where the trial is pending. Evidence

made available by the Investigating Agencies before the

Committee was sufficient to come to a conclusion that all

these candidates were tainted. The standard of proof

required before a Criminal Court is different from the

subjective satisfaction of an Authority while taking an

administrative decision. This Court has no hesitation to

conclude that all these candidates are tainted as found by

the Committee. The report of the Committee dated 8.2.2007

is accepted. Question No.2

 Learned counsel for the petitioners have argued

that those candidates against whom no FIR has been

registered and had put in three years of service without any
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 24 ]

complaint, they had completed their probation period

successfully and being non-tainted have a right to be

confirmed on their posts. Reliance has been placed on the

judgments in Dipti Prakash Banerjee v. Satvendra Nath

Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences, Calcutta 1999 AIR

(SC)-983, D.K.Yadav v. J.M.A. Industries Limited 1993 SCC

(3) 259, V.C.Banaras Hindu University and others v. Shrikant 2006 AIR (SC)-2304, Shamsher Singh v. State of Punjab 1974 AIR (SC)-2192 and Constable Subhash Chander v.

State of Punjab and others 2006 (3) SCT 197 to contend that

their services could not be terminated without following the

Service Rules and as per Rule 23(3) of the PCS (Executive)

Branch Class-I Rules 1976 they are deemed to be confirmed

and could not be terminated without following the procedure

prescribed in Punjab Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal)

Rules 1970 and Article 311 of the Constitution. Their

services could not be terminated as their work and

performance had been satisfactory and there was no

adversity in their record which could justify the extreme

action. Reference has been made to judgments in Kanpur

University and others v. Samir Gupta 1983 AIR (SC) 1230,

Manish Ujwal and others v. Maharishi Dayanand Saraswati

University and others 2005 (13) SCC-744, Sanjay Singh &

Another v. U.P.Public Service Commissiion, Allahabad JT

2007 (2) SC 534, U.P. Public Service Commission v. Subhash
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 25 ]

Chandra Dixit and others 2004 AIR (SC)-163, K.Channegowda and others v. Karnataka Public Service

Commission and others 2005 SCC 12-688 and Onkar Lal

Bajaj Etc. v. Union of India and another etc. 2003 AIR (SC)

2562 to contend that candidates against whom FIRs have

not been registered should not suffer the order of

termination and their cases should be segregated as such. The argument of the learned counsel for the

petitioner is liable to be rejected. The Rule of principle of

natural justice is an integral part of rule of law which

constitutes the touch stone of our constitutional set up. In a

number of cases challenging involving challenge to

termination of service, violation of rule of audi artem partem

has been made a ground for nullifying the impunged

decisions. This principle has been consistently followed in P.L.Dhingra v. Union of India 1958 SC 36 and Shamsher

Singh 's case (supra) . There is a departure of applicability of

rules of natural justice when certain administrative

action/decisions taken by the Government are questioned on

the ground of public policy/public interest or where the

process of selection is found to be vitiated by fraud,

manipulations, nepotism and favoritism. Reference can be

made to Supreme Court decision in Union Territory

Chandigarh and others v. Dilbagh Singh (1993) 1 SCC 154.

The Supreme Court while examining the case of selection of
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 26 ]

Conductors in Chandigarh Transport Undertaking had set

aside the decision of Chandigarh Bench of Central

Administrative Tribunal where the decision of the

Administration had cancelled the selection list without giving

them opportunity of hearing. The Supreme Court while

reversing the order of the Tribunal held that action of the

Administration was neither arbitrary nor lacked bona fide

and there was valid reasons to cancel such dubious select

list. The Supreme Court further observed that the order of

cancellation was not vitiated as there was no direct evidence

to prove corruption charges against the members of the

selection Board in the manner of award of interview marks

or because there was no opportunity of hearing afforded to

the candidates included in the select list. The Supreme Court in Krishan Yadav and another

v. State of Haryana and others 1994 (4) SC 165 and 1994

(2) SLR 719 had considered the challenge to the selection

made by Haryana Subordinate Services Selection Board for

selection of Taxation Inspector in the Excise & Taxation

Department. Writ petitions were dismissed by the High Court

questioning the selection on the ground of fraud and

manipulations. In Supreme Court during the pendency of the

appeal a CBI investigation was ordered. After going through

the report of CBI the entire selection was quashed by

imposing a cost of `10,000/- on each member of the
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 27 ]

Selection Board. The relevant extract of the judgment is

reproduced below:- The Supreme Court in Union of India and others v.

Anand Kumar Pandey and others (1994) 5 SCC 663, Pritpal

Singh v. State of Haryana and others (1994) 5 SCC 695,

Hanuman Parshad and others v. Union of India and another

(1996) 10 SCC 742, B.Ramjini and others v. State of Andhra

Pradesh AIR 2002 SC 2023 and Union of India v. O.Chakradhar (2002) 3 SC 1119 has consistently held that

if a selection process is vitiated on account of not following

the procedure for selection, smacks of mala fide and mal
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 29 ]

practices the rules of natural justice are not required to be

followed. Even if some deserving candidates suffer on

account of cancellation of such selection the decision can

not be regarded as arbitrary or unreasonable. In public

interest the entire selection can be nullified and the Courts

cannot sit in appeal over the decision of the competent

authority if tangible material was available with the

Government to form a subjective opinion that the selection

was tainted. The Committee examined the cases of other

candidates against whom no FIR was registered and their

marks were compared with those candidates who had not

been selected either by giving them very low marks in the

interview. These candidates are 10 in number whose names

are mentioned below: The marks obtained by these candidates in written

as well as in interview are as under:- CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 33 ]

 Another important fact which the committee has

taken into consideration is that Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu

amended rules of the Punjab Public Service Commission to

assume unlimited powers. Amended Rule 17(b) is as under:- CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 34 ]

 The above amendment clearly shows that the

Chairman had used unlimited powers in conducting the

process of selection when he was Chairman of Punjab Public

Service Commission. The investigation process revealed that Shri

Ravinder Pal Singh Sidhu took upon himself the

responsibility of issuing fictitious roll numbers, the process

of decoding them for compiling results and custody of

evaluated answer sheets from which the veracity of exercise

conducted in grading candidates could be verified. In this

manner, he had free access not only to the answer sheets

but also to the marks awarded to the candidates. The

Investigating process also revealed that the records of the

Public Service Commission had been destroyed before the

expiry of 5 years as prescribed by the Act. The Committee had examined several letters of

members of the Commission which revealed that

Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu was being repeatedly complained

of by different members of Punjab Public Service

Commission that he was running the affairs of the

Commission in an arbitrary manner and that the selections

were not being made by a fair procedure established in

accordance with law. C.W.P. No. 7952 of 2001 was filed by Smt. Harjeet

Kaur Randhawa along with Shri R.C.Gupta and Shri Amarjeet
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 35 ]

Chawla (all members of the Punjab Public Service

Commission during the tenure of Shri Ravinderpal Singh

Sidhu) with specific assertions that they were not being

consulted in the manner in which the Public Service

Commission was functioning under the Chairmanship of Shri

Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu. This writ petition has been

rendered infructuous on 7.7.2003 in view of the Full Bench

decision in Amarbir Singh v. State of Punjab whereby the

petitioners challenged the termination orders in view of the

scam which was exposed on the arrest of Ravinderpal Singh

Sidhu. C.W.P. No. 14491 of 1997 was filed by four

members of the Punjab Public Service Commission i.e. Shri

J.S.Jhakkar, Shri GIS Bhullar, Shri T.C.Gupta and Shri

A.S.Sidhu. Serious allegations were levelled against Shri

Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu pertaining to the arbitrary manner

of functioning and highlighted that the activities of Punjab

Public Service Commission were in the hands of the

Chairman of the Public Service Commission. None of the

members of the Commission is associated in any decision

making. Another important aspect in the process of making

selection was the appointment of Paper Setters, Examiners

or paper Checkers. As per the Vigilance Department Shri

Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu performed the aforesaid functions
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 36 ]

individually without associating any other member of the

Public Service Commission or even the Secretary of the

Public Service Commission. The Public Service Commission has flouted all

norms and rules as discussed above in conducting the

examinations, selection, interview, of the PCS (Executive)

Branch. In such a situation, can the candidates seek

regularization of their probation period and secure their

services? The Supreme Court in Ashwani Kumar and others

v. State of Bihar and others 1997(2)SCC 1 has noticed in

paragraphs 13 and 14 as under:- This decision of Supreme Court was referred to in

2006(4) SCC 1 State of Karnataka and others v. Uma Devi

(3) and others The above principle has been followed by the

Supreme Court in State of Jharkhand and others v. Manshu

Kumbhkar 2007 (8) SCC 249. In this case some

appointments were made on Class-III and Class-IV posts by
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 39 ]

fabricating the signatures of Miss Surajmani Khalko. These

appointments were subsequently cancelled by the

Government. On inquiry by the Deputy Commissioner it was

found that all the appointments were illegal. The writ

petitions were allowed by the High Court. However, the

Supreme Court allowed the SLP on the ground that the

appointments were not in conformity with the rules and

were illegal. Once the appointments were violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution, the employees were

not entitled for hearing before terminating their services.

The ratio of Supreme Court judgment in Ashwani Kumar's

case (supra) was followed while allowing the appeal. The Supreme Court in 2007 ( 5) SCC 65 State of

Manipur and others v. Y. Token Singh and others has

considered the cancellation order passed by the State

Government on the appointments given by the

Commissioner, Revue Department without delegation of

power as bona fide. The Supreme Court held as under:- In 2007 (4) SCC 54 Ashok Kumar Sonkar v. Union

of India and others was a case where the appellant had been

appointed on the post of Lecturer by the Banaras Hindu

University being not eligible on the date of application of

form. His appointment was set aside by the 'visitor'

( President of India) of the University under Section 5(7) of

the University Act, 1915. The SLP was dismissed by

observing as under:- CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 41 ]

 Hence, the financial gains and property/money

amassed by Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu i.e. recovery of

`22 crores of currency, coupled with the fact that he had

assumed unlimited powers in running the affairs of the

Commission, which ultimately lead to giving very low marks

to candidates with high marks in written examination so as

to ensure that other candidates with average marks in

written examination were given high marks in interview so

that they could be selected, results in vitiating the entire

selection process. As per the consistent view of the Supreme

Court, such appointments were made by the Public Service

Commission violated all rules as enunciated by the

Constitution for a fair selection. The selections are being

questioned at the initial stage of entry into public service.

The process being vitiated with manipulations and fraud

does not give to the selected candidates, the right to

personal hearing before terminating their services. They are

not entitled to protection under Article 311 (2) of the

Constitution and Punjab Civil Service (Punishment & Appeal)

Rules 1970. The Committee had examined the case of 40

candidates, out of whom 7 candidates against whom FIRs

are registered are not part of the selection process of PCS

(Executive). Against 23 candidates FIRs have been

registered and they are facing criminal trials. The other
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 42 ]

candidates were awarded high marks in interview so as to

surpass some deserving candidates who were given very low

marks in the interview. These candidates do not suffer the

blemish or taint but they have been successful in the

selection process which was vitiated on account of not

following correct procedure and was filled with

manipulations and fraud. The Supreme Court in Union of India and others v.

Rajesh P.U., Puthuvalnikathu and another (2003) 7 Supreme

Court Cases 285 while dismissing the SLP filed by the Union

of India has upheld the judgment of the High Court whereby

the cancellation of select list of 134 Constables was set

aside being arbitrary and unreasonable. As per the report of

a Committee appointed by the High Court, out of 134

Constables only 31 candidates had been selected who were

undeserving. The total percentage of tainted candidates was

very low i.e. 23%. Hence, the meritorious candidates being

in majority in number were held entitled for appointment. In Onkar Lal Bajaj and others v. Union of India and another (2003) 2 Supreme Court Cases 673 the Supreme Court was

examining the cancellation of 3760 allotments of retail

outlet dealership/distributorship of petroleum products. As

per the allegations in the newspaper a total number of 413

cases were exposed by the media which were made as a

result of political or other extraneous considerations. The
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 43 ]

percentage came to about 10% of the total allotments

made. The Supreme Court quashed the cancellation of all

the other allotments except 413 which were alleged to be

tainted allotments. The orders were quashed on the ground

that it deprived a large number of allottees of their

livelihood and there should have been an independent probe

of the alleged tainted allotments by the Government. The

above said judgments of the Supreme Court do not help the

petitioners in the present case as out of the 57 petitioners

who had approached the Supreme Court, 33 candidates

have been found to be part of a tainted and vitiated

selection process. The percentage comes to about 66% of 57

candidates. Hence, it would be safe to come to a conclusion

that the majority of the candidates were part of a tainted

and vitiated selection process. The entire exercise as

directed by the Supreme Court in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon's

case(supra) was to find out if whether majority candidates

were tainted which would render the entire selection process

as vitiated. Keeping in view that all the candidates examined

by the Committee were part of a vitiated and tainted

selection process it can safely be concluded that the

majority of the candidates were part of the tainted selection

process. However, they shall be eligible for participating in any

regular selection in future. Question No.3

 The Vigilance Bureau has gathered sufficient

material to come to a conclusion that the Government on a

subjective satisfaction and reasons had quashed the

selection of PCS (Executive) which was result of

manipulations and fraud. However, the Supreme Court in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon 's case (supra) while remanding the

case had observed that the Government had terminated the

services of the selected candidates in haste. The selection process of PCS (Executive) as per

the investigations carried out can be described to be a pond

filled with stinking water. The selection process had

revealed that the Chairman Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu

had amassed unaccounted wealth and properties as detailed

in the report given by the Committee in its report dated

8.2.2007. The State Government in an attempt to cleanse

the pond had quashed the entire selection. This was good for

the Nation. At the same time while terminating the services

the Government had taken a conscious decision to have a

re-examination immediately for all the candidates who had

participated in the earlier selection. The Government made

an attempt to refill the tank with clean and pure water and

in other words to safeguard the interest of all the candidates
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 45 ]

who had worked with the Government without any

complaint for the last three years and were not facing

criminal trials. to appear in this examination had accepted the decision of

the State Government for holding fresh examinations after

termination of their services. Some of the candidates who

appeared in the re-examination and were successful were

re-appointed. Their services rendered prior to the

termination have been saved for the purpose of seniority

etc. by the State Government. After examining the report of the committee in

detail and going through the record of the case a reasonable

classification of two sets of candidates can be made. The

first set consists of those 23 candidates against whom FIRs

have been registered and they are facing criminal trial. They

have put in about 3 years of service after their appointment

and were on probation. The FIRs against these candidates were registered

on 5.9.2002 and challans have been presented against them

on 23.4.2010 and 16.2.2011 in FIR No.65 dated 5.9.2002.

Similarly, in FIR No. 67 dated 5.9.2002 a challan has been

presented on 21.4.2004 in the Court of Special Judge,

Patiala. The net result of the report of the committee can
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 46 ]

lead to only one conclusion that all these candidates were

tainted and were not fit to be retained in service despite the

fact that they had put in 3 years of service after their

appointment. The Government was right in coming to a

conclusion on the basis of subjective satisfaction to

terminate the services of these candidates. The functions of Public Service Commission as per Articles 315 to 323 prescribes the manner of exercise of

that power. The law insists that the power should be

exercised in that norm alone, Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Charles K.Skaria and others v. Dr. C. Mathew and others (1980) 2 SCC 752 was examining a selection for the post-

graduage degree course of a candidate. The applicant had

applied for the course after appearing in the diploma

examination. With his application, he had not annexed the

certificate of diploma examination as the examination result

had not been declared. As per the prospectus he was to give

weightage for diploma examination and a certificate of

diploma was to be attached along with the application form

for admission. The supreme Court held that this provision in

the prospectus was directory and not mandatory. The delay

in getting the certified copies of the result should not go

against the applicant if he satisfies the committee that he

had completed the course. The delay in publication of the

result after the last date of application would not render him
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 47 ]

ineligible for admission. The Supreme Court however had

reservations that if an admission had been made by the

selection committee by adopting anything dubious, shady or

unfair about the procedure or any mala fide move in the

official exercise it would not have been tolerated. In

paragraphs 23 and 24 it has been observed as under:- As far as the modus operandi of the selection

process and the manner in which the Chairman of the

Commission had flouted the rules and norms the entire

selection process was not legally valid - it was vitiated. The

selection process conducted by flouting all norms and

manipulations so as to result in debarring or prohibiting

clean candidates to enter into the service of a Government

as public servant and have no force of law. It is a void

selection and invalidated completely due to fraud. This is a first case in the history of Public Service
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 49 ]

Commission in India where such huge amount of money has

been recovered from fictitious bank accounts after recording

the statement of one of the accused Jagman Singh (who

later turned to be an approver). Within 3 days i.e. 17.4.2002

to 19.4.2002 more than `16 crores were recovered from the

lockers and bank accounts of relations of R.S.Sidhu. The

cash and property worth `22 crores were recovered. The

Court has accepted the report of the Committee dated

8.2.2007 and the entire selection process has been found to

be vitiated filled with manipulations and fraud. The faith of

common man was destroyed completely by a pious institute

of Public Service Commission, whose main object as per the

Preamble was to give Equality of status and opportunity and

promote all citizens equally. Majority of the candidates form

part of a selection process which was vitiated. This Court has

no hesitation to dismiss all the petitions. Apart from the 57 petitioners who had approached

the Supreme Court against the judgment of Full Bench in

C.W.P. No. 8421 of 2002 the following petitioners did not

approach the Supreme Court against the decision of the Full

Bench dated 7.7.2003 instead they filed review

applications :- Vide order dated 7.7.2003 Amarbir Singh v. State

of Punjab and others , the Full Bench of this Court dismissed

all the writ petitions challenging the termination orders of

PCS Executive as well as Judicial Branch Officers. Against

this decision, some of the petitioners filed SLPs which were

allowed by the Supreme Court. The petitioners who did not approach the Supreme

Court their cases were revived by the Full Bench of this

Court vide order dated 18.4.2007 . The doctrine of prospective over ruling came up

for consideration before the Supreme Court in AIR 1967 SC

1643 in Golakh Nath and others vs. State of Punjab and

another . In paragraph No. 47 and 51, it has been held as

under:- Hence the Supreme Court concluded that earlier

decisions of the Supreme Court could be set aside. However,

the retrospective applicability of the decision was restricted.

A majority view of 11 Judges in Golakh Nath 's case is that

the decision to over rule shall apply prospectively and not to

the existing law. Similar view was taken by Constitution Bench of

Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Managing Director E.C.I.L,

Hyderabad vs. B. Karunakar , etc. AIR 1994 SC 1074 that

Supreme Court judgment in Union of India vs. Mohammad

Ramzan Khan , AIR 1991 S.C 471 holding that supply of copy

of enquiry report to delinquent official was necessary before

punishing him after the amendment of Article 311(2) which

would apply prospectively and will not effect the validity of

orders passed prior to 20th November 1990 i.e the date on

which Mohamad Ramzan Khan 's case came to be decided. In

Saptal Bhatia vs. Estate Officer Chandigarh 1998(2) PLR

675 a Division Bench of this Court has examined a case of

resumption order challenged by the petitioner after 28

years. The resumption order was examined in the

background that the Supreme Court had struck down Section

9 of the Act of 1952 in the case of M/s Jagdish Chand
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 53 ] Radhey Sham vs. State of Punjab A.I.R 1972 S.C 2587 and

held that it shall not invalidate the resumption orders which

were passed by the Estate Officer on 27.07.1968. The

Judgment of Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Jagdish Chand's

case (supra) would not have the effect of automatic

invalidation of all the proceedings taken under Section 9 qua

the persons who were not parties in the Supreme Court. The preposition of doctrine of prospective

overruling has been considered in several other decisions as

well i.e. Ashok Kumar Gupta v. State of U.P. 1997(2) SCT

381, M/s Raymond Ltd. v. M.P.Electricity Board 2001(1) RCR

(Civil) 330, Somaiya Organics (India) Ltd. And another v.

State of U.P. and another ( 2001) 5 SCC 519, Harsh Dhingra

v. State of Haryana 2002 (2) RCR (Civil) 450, M.A.Murthy v.

State of Karnataka and others 2003 (7) SCC 517, Dr.

Saurabh Choudhary and others v. Union of India and others

2004 ( 5) SCC 618, Employees State Insurance Corporation &

others v. Jardine Henderson Staff Association & others 2006

( 6) S.C.C. 581, Amrik Singh Lyallpuri v. Union of India &

others 2011 (6) SCC 535. The consistent view of the Supreme Court is that

prospective declaration of law is a device innovated to avoid

reopening of settled issues and to prevent multiplicity of

proceedings. It is also a device adopted to avoid uncertainty

and avoidable litigation. The object of prospective
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 54 ]

declaration of law is that all actions taken contrary to the

declaration of law prior to the date of declaration are

validated. This is done in larger public interest. According to

the Supreme Court, it was a rule of "all judicial

craftsmanship with pragmatism and judicial statesmanship

as a useful outline to bring about smooth transition of the

operation of law without unduly effecting the rights of people

who acted upon the law adopted prior to the date of

judgment overruling the previous law. There shall be no

prospective overruling unless it is so indicated in the

particular decision by the Supreme Court under Article 142 of the Constitution. Recently in Bangalore City Cooperative

Housing Society Ltd. v. State of Karnataka and others 2012

AIR SC 1395 the Supreme Court has upheld the quashing of

the notifications under Sections 4(1) and 6(1) of the Land

Acquisition Act, 1894 on the ground that there was no useful

scheme approved by the State Government prior to the

issue of notifications. In the absence of such approval the

land could not be acquired for public purpose. The society's

prayer for invoking the doctrine of prospective overruling in

favour of those members of the society who had already

constructed the houses may not suffer incalculable harm

was declined. The Estate Agent had charged huge money

from the Society for getting the notifications issued under Sections 4(1) and 6(1) of the 1894 Act and sanction of lay
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 55 ]

out plan by the BDA. The Supreme Court found no

justification to invoke the doctrine of prospective overruling

and legitimate the illegal acts committed by the Estate

Agent. In the facts of the present case, vide order dated

18.4.2007 the writ petitions were revived which were

dismissed on 7.7.2003. The revived writ petitions were

ordered to be listed along with cases remanded by the

Supreme Court. The Supreme Court in Inderpreet Singh

Kahlon 's case (supra) had allowed all the writ petitions

pertaining to 57 petitioners as observed in para 37 of

judgment and remanded their case back to this Court. Those

appellants were granted liberty to file their objections to the

report of the Committee constituted by the High Court.

There was no direction by the Supreme Court to extend this

liberty to those candidates who had not filed the SLPs in

Supreme Court. It may be observed that by consent of the

parties no Court/Tribunal or Statutory Authority can assume

jurisdiction in the absence of any statutory provision to

entertain appeal/revision etc. The decision dated 07.07.2003

dismissing the writ petitions by the Full bench of this Court

in Amarbir Singh 's case (supra) became final as order was

not challenged in appeal in SLP before the Supreme Court

under Article 136 of the Constitution. The High Court, in

absence of any constitutional or statutory provision, could
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 56 ]

not have revived these writ petitions much less on the

ground of remand order passed in appeals filed by 57

petitioners in the Supreme Court. The orders of revival of

the above writ petitions of such petitioners who did not file

any appeal in the Supreme Court is without jurisdiction and

non-est.

 In view of discussion as above, the writ petitions

are dismissed. ( RITU BAHRI )
 JUDGE

 (PARAMJEET SINGH)
 JUDGE

 (NARESH KUMAR SANGHI )
 JUDGE

 ( RAMESHWAR SINGH MALIK )
 JUDGE

 ( INDERJIT SINGH )
 JUDGE
May 31, 2013
rupi/G.arora

Paramjeet Singh, J

 I have the benefit of reading the judgment of my learned sister

Ritu Bahri, J. I concur with the conclusions and findings arrived at by her
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 57 ]

on all the issues, however, I would like to further add as under:- A clear distinction has been drawn by the framers of the

Constitution between service under the Centre or the States and in the

institutions which are creations of the Constitution. The constitutional

scheme contained in Articles 315 to 320 noticeably demonstrates the

complete independence of the Public Service Commissions in discharge of

their functions. The immunities enjoyed by the Chairman and Members of

the Commission under the Constitution are far greater and cannot be

impinged upon by the normal procedure. Higher the public office, greater is

the responsibility. The adverse impact of lack of probity in discharge of
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 61 ]

functions of the Commission could result in defects not only in the process

of selection but also in the appointments to the public offices which, in turn,

would affect efficiency and effectiveness of administration. The principles of public accountability and transparency in the

functioning of an institution are essential for its proper governance. The

necessity of sustenance of public confidence in the functioning of the

Commission may be compared to the functions of judiciary in

administration of justice which were stated by Lord Denning in

Metropolitan Properties Co. vs. Lannon (1968) 3 All ER 304 in following

words: Thus, the credibility of the institution like Public Service

Commission is founded upon faith of the common man on its proper

functioning. The conduct of the Chairman and Members of the Commission,

in discharge of their duties, has to be above board and beyond censure.

Constant allegations of corruption, misdeeds and promotion of family

interests have eroded public confidence in the Commission. Observations of

Profs. Brown and Garner in their treatise French Administrative Law, 3rd

ed. (1983), in this regard can be usefully referred to. They said "the

standard of behaviour of an administration depends in the last resort

upon the quality and traditions of the public officials who compose it

rather than upon such sanctions as may be exercised through a system of

judicial control." Regrettably, the present case is one of many where

serious allegations and imputations have been made against the Chairman
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 62 ]

and Members of the Commission in regard to performance of their

constitutional duties, for the omissions and commissions committed in

selections, amounting to misuse of power and selection of undeserving

candidates. During the tenure of Mr. Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu, the

Commission selected and recommended candidates for appointment to

various posts in different cadres of the State. Subsequently, it came to the

notice of the Government that various irregularities and illegalities, such as

acts of favouritism, discrimination, corruption and violation of

rules/regulations had been committed by the Commission in the process of

selection. A trap was laid and the Chairman was caught red-handed. Huge

amount of unaccounted money was recovered. After conducting preliminary

enquiries, the Government initiated vigilance enquiries and First

Information Reports were registered for the alleged irregularities, illegalities

and acts of omissions and commissions by the Chairman of the Commission

and others related to it. This resulted into scraping of the entire selection of

PCS (Executive) and allied services. I need not give details of alleged

omissions and commissions here as my learned Sister Ritu Bahri, J. has

elaborately discussed in her judgment. The State Government after noticing the irregularities and

favouritism on a mass scale and on suspicion of serious charges of

corruption against the Chairman of the Commission and others, scrapped

the entire selection. The validity and legality of the orders of scraping the

entire selection of PCS (Executive) and allied services has been considered

in a number of rounds by this Court and the Hon'ble Supreme Court. It

would be appropriate to mention that earlier the matter came up before Full
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 63 ]

Bench of this Court, thereafter went to the Hon'ble Supreme Court and it

has been remanded to this Court. After remand by Hon'ble Supreme Court,

the matter was heard by a Full Bench of this Court and the judgment was

dictated by one of the learned Judges of that Bench and circulated but due to

disagreement was not signed by the other members of the Bench, nor the

learned Judge who authored the judgment, pronounced the same, so the

matter was referred to the Chief Justice for constitution of larger Bench.

Hence, this Bench has been constituted to examine the issue in view of the

direction contained in para 91 of the remand order which reads as under:- In view of the observation made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in the remand order an opportunity to file objections has been afforded to

the petitioner(s) and the matter has been examined afresh. The learned counsel for the petitioner(s) vehemently raised the

following main arguments:- CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 64 ] 3. The Judges' Committee should have separated the tainted and

 non-tainted candidates. In the light of the arguments raised, following substantial

questions need to be answered in addition to what my learned Sister Ritu

Bahri, J. has discussed in the judgment. (a) Whether the principles of natural justice are absolute; if there is

 a mass scale fraud, mischief, corruption and conspiracy to

 pervert the course of fair selection by the Commission still the

 petitioner(s) and other competing candidates were required to

 be given opportunity of hearing and the principles of natural

 justice and the service jurisprudence were required to be

 followed before scrapping the entire selection and

 consequential termination of their services when the entire

 selection process itself is alleged to be vitiated? (b) Whether the procedure adopted by the Judges' Committee is

 erroneous? Re: Question (a)

 The contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner(s) is

that the principles of natural justice have not been followed before

terminating their services by the Government. That order stands set aside by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Since the services of the petitioners have been

terminated, the principle of service jurisprudence will apply. Departmental

proceedings have to be conducted in accordance with the service rules and

regulations, as well as, under Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India and

adequate reasonable opportunity of hearing is required to be afforded. The
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 65 ]

argument prima facie gives an impression that present proceedings are akin

to the proceeding where principles of service jurisprudence should apply, as,

if there is breach of rules and regulations controlling the conditions of

service of such employee and such charges are to be proved in accordance

with the procedure for imposition of minor and major penalties under

service rules. I am not convinced and also not in agreement with the

contention raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner(s). Principles of

service jurisprudence cannot be strictly applied in the present case as the

entire selection process has been alleged to be vitiated for the alleged large

scale omissions and commissions committed by the Chairman and others.

When the entire selection is challenged then there is no relationship of

employer and employee and it cannot be treated as a dispute relating to

service under the rules. The service jurisprudence will apply when after

joining the service there is inter-se dispute between the employer and the

employee and basic selection is not in issue. Here is a case where entire

selection by the Commission is under challenge. When the entire selection

under challenge is vitiated, then procedure required to be adopted for

removal of government employee from service has no relevancy nor it can

be applied. In Karnataka Public Service Commission versus B.M. Vijay

Shankar , (1992) 2 SCC, 206, the Hon'ble Supreme Court considered about

the violation of principle of natural justice and has observed as under:- In famous case of Abbott Vs Sullivan (1952)1KB189 it is

observed: "Principles of Natural Justice are easy to proclaim, but their

precise extent is far less easy to define." Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bar Council of India vs High court

of Kerala (2004) 6 SCC 311 held : In Maneka Gandhi vs Union of India and another (1978)1

SCC 248 Hon'ble supreme court has held thus: The next limb of the argument is with regard to applicability of

principles of criminal jurisprudence to the present proceedings in regard to

opportunity of being heard, burden of proof and content of charges. The

principles of criminal jurisprudence contemplate different standards of

proof, language of charge and protections available to a suspect/accused. It

is neither practicable nor possible to apply the norms of criminal law to the

proceedings before the writ Court and the Committee consisting of Judges

of this Court constituted to examine the record of selection. In criminal law,

the charge should be proved beyond reasonable doubt and an accused

cannot be convicted on the basis of probability. Under the service

jurisprudence, a person may be found guilty even on the charge being

proved on the basis of preponderance of probabilities. In this case, the

proceedings relate to circumstances leading to scrapping of entire selection

by the government and the examination of the entire process of selection by

three Judges' Committee of this Court, the procedure adopted by the

Committee to examine the process of selection, can neither be the same as

applicable to the criminal proceedings nor as applicable to the employer,

employee relationship. There is a clear cut distinction. In other words, the

proceedings before government,before the Committee of Judges and this

court are neither akin to proceedings under service law nor criminal law. In

fact, they are sui generis. Sum and substance of the above discussion is that principles of

natural justice are not absolute; exceptions to the requirement of principles

of natural justice and procedures are all circumstantial and not conclusive.
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 71 ]

Every exception is to be admissible, taking into consideration the facts and

circumstances of each case. Where it is administratively impracticable to

give hearing to every one and there is a large scale mal-practices,

illegalities, irregularities, favourtism, fraud, mischief, corruption and deep-

rooted conspiracy, in such circumstances larger public interest will override

the individual interest, as justice demands.

Re: Question (b)

 In the present case, the nature of the proceedings is such that it

became necessary for the Committee of Judges and this Court to adopt a

procedure befitting the facts and circumstances of this case. Thus, I also

have no hesitation in rejecting the contention of the petitioner(s) that the

burden of proof applicable to such cases has to be `beyond reasonable

doubt'. In fact, I need not deliberate any further on factual aspect of this case

here. In present case proceedings are sui generis, in this regard the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in case of Smt. Sayalee Sanjeev Joshi, (2007)11 SCC 547)

also took the same view, the reasoning whereof I adopt with respect and

refer to paragraph 15 of the judgment which reads as under : Further in para 143,the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under : The above reasoning persuades me to follow the law enunciated

in the afore-referred case and take the view that the content and nature of

the proceedings before the Committee of Judges of this Court was sui

generis and the Committee has rightly evolved its own procedure in

consonance to suit the facts of this case and to ensure that ends of justice are

achieved and there is no abuse of the process nor the procedure adopted by

the Judges' Committee is erroneous. The Government in face of the facts has
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 73 ]

passed the orders of termination considering the entire selection vitiated as a

result of mass-scale fraud, favourtism, mischief, corruption and conspiracy

to pervert the course of fair selection by the Commission which resulted into

injustice to other competing candidates. The Government found serious

irregularities and illegalities committed by the Chairman and others in

various selections including selection to the Punjab Civil Services

(Executive Branch) and Allied Services Examination. It needs specific mention that several complaints were received

against various selections made by the Commission. Enquiries were made

by the Vigilance Bureau and in furtherance to that FIRs had been registered

which are pending. The wrong and arbitrary selections had generated

numerous Writ Petitions and Special Leave Petitions during the tenure of

Mr. Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu, Chairman of the Commission. The conduct of

the Chairman and others not only shows the omissions and commissions on

their part, but administrative lapses as well. This resulted in providing

employment to undeserving candidates at the cost of more meritorious

candidates. The details are mentioned in the judgment by the learned Sister

Ritu Bahri, J. however, I would like to quote the findings of the Committee

on the role of Chairman, which reads as under: Virtually, the misdeeds and misdemeanours in the selection

processes are apparent as even some of the members of the Commission had

categorically leveled allegations that Chairman did not associate them in the

process of selection, they even approached this Court by way of writ

petition for the relief. The cumulative effect of all this clearly indicates that

the selection process was not in accordance with law, rules and regulations

and put a question mark on the integrity, honesty and the efficiency of the

Chairman coupled with the fact that huge amount of unaccounted money

has been recovered by the vigilance from the Chairman. It is not in dispute that the enquiries now being conducted by

the Vigilance Bureau pertain to certain selections in question and past

selections. From the documents produced, it appears that the action of the

then Chairman, others and certain other Officers/Officials of the

Commission, is under cloud. Under any circumstances, the aforesaid

enquiries cannot be taken to mean any erosion of the authority of the

Committee of Judges or its independence. An expert and constitutional body

like the Commission are supposed to perform their duties fearlessly and

carry out selections on the basis of the best merit available. However, if the
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 75 ]

aforesaid selections are alleged to be tainted and based upon consideration

other than merit, the petitioner(s) cannot claim that selection made by

Commission is immune from scrutiny. Nobody has a vested right to

perpetuate illegality or hide a scandal. All selections made by the

Commission are supposed to be based upon competence, merit and

integrity.In this case the allegations to the contrary had not only eroded the

public confidence in the Commission but also resulted in reducing the merit

to casualty. For the reasons referred above , I find that the aforesaid

contention of the learned Counsel is also without any merit. There is no dispute with the preposition of law that while

exercising the power of judicial review this Court would be slow in making

competitive comparison of the selected candidates vis-a-vis the

unsuccessful candidates. However, I express, my inability to extend the

aforesaid analogy to hold that even in the case of corruption charges,

favourtism and tainted selections, no enquiry/examination in the matter of

selection could be made. Accepting the aforesaid argument would be

perpetuating the tainted selections. In the matter of Dr. Ram Ashray Yadav (supra), the Court

emphasized that keeping in line with the high expectations of their office

and need to observe absolute integrity and impartiality in the exercise of

their powers and duties, the Chairman and Members of the Public Service

Commission are required to be selected on the basis of their merit, ability

and suitability and they are expected to be role models for the persons

whom they are going to select for Civil Services. The character and conduct
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 76 ]

of the Chairman and Members of the Commission, like Caesar's wife, must

therefore, be above board. They occupy a unique place and position; utmost

objectivity in the performance of their duties, integrity and detachment are

essential requirements for holding these high constitutional offices. Similarly, in the present case of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon v. State of

Punjab [(2006) 11 SCC 356], as it came up for consideration before the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction the

Hon'ble Supreme Court was concerned with allegations against the

Chairman of the Punjab Public Service Commission that in discharge of his

duties, he had selected persons for extraneous as well as monetary

considerations during 1996 to 2002. For such conduct and selections, FIRs

had been registered in that behalf while the selection of the appointed

candidates was also challenged. While dealing with these allegations, the

Court held as under: In the above lines, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has explained
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 77 ]

the standards of performance which are expected to be maintained by the

Chairman/Members of the Commission. The detailed reference to the witnesses produced, along with

the affidavit, number of documents including compilation of results for the

year 1996 to 2002 is not necessary by me as this has already been discussed

by my learned Sister Ritu Bahri,J.. As per the statement of the witnesses and

the record, the marks of several candidates were either reduced or increased,

without specifying any reason. In a most arbitrary manner marks in the

interview have been given/ reduced, much less as a genuine necessity. I may also observe that there are interpolations, manipulations

and alterations in the answer sheets at various places. Interestingly, the

candidates who had scored very high marks in the written examination were

awarded low marks in interview while the candidates who had not faired so

well in the written examination were awarded very high marks in the

interview. This aspect has already been dealt with in main judgment. It is

clear indicative of the fact that the process of selection is induced or

affected by fraud, favourtism, mischief and corruption, it will certainly fall

within the excess of jurisdiction and lack of due process. It is like a stable

man in saddle on unruly horse of public policy. In the present case, it has

been found that there is exercise of excessive jurisdiction which depicts lack

of due process and as such, is opposed to the public policy and objectives of

Commission. The implied argument raised by the counsel for the parties that

fraud perpetuated by Sh Ravinderpal Sidhu cannot be attributed to the

petitioner(s) / selectees cannot withstand the scrutiny of law in the light of

fact that Chairman has exercised excessive jurisdiction which depicts lack
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 78 ]

of due process and as such, is against the public interst and policy which

affects the entire selection. This is certainly an indication of the arbitrary

standards adopted by the Commission in the selection process and the fact

that the candidates were not dealt with equal hand and uniform yardstick.

This argument of the petitioner(s) is rendered meritless. When all these facts are examined in their correct perspective,

it is obvious that tempering of record and non cooperative attitude adopted

by the then Chairman with the other members of the Commission, was not

for bona fide reasons and, much less, to protect the constitutional stature of

the Commission. On the contrary, the image of the Commission has been

lowered in the eyes of the public and the rule of fairness and merit has been

substantially ignored in processes of selection for different posts. It is true,

and as argued on behalf of the petitioner(s), that there is no direct evidence

before us to show that these manipulations have actually been carried out by

whom but it is equally true that the Chairman and others, were duty bound

to exercise proper administrative control to ensure judicious and fair

selection and prevent any act of omission or commission which would

diminish public confidence in the functioning of the constitutional body.

The non-production of documents lacks bona fide and was, primarily,

intended to withhold the records from the Investigating Agencies to cover

up the irregularities, illegalities, misdeeds and misdemeanours referred in

the main judgment. Certainly, the present case discloses illegalities and misdeeds of

graver nature. On a holistic view of the matter, it is apparent that

irregularities and acts of irresponsibility committed by the Commission
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 79 ]

delineated about the misdeeds, has certainly lowered the dignity of the

Commission. The burden of proof applicable to such cases is not that as

required under the criminal jurisprudence, i.e., to prove the charge `beyond

any reasonable doubt'. Where the facts supported by record point a finger at

the Chairman and others with some certainty, it amounts to omissions and

commissions in the facts and circumstances of this case. Rule of reasonable

preponderance of probabilities would be the right standard to be applied.

This Court is not called upon to record finding of guilt as if in a criminal

case. The Commission was certainly in a position to prevent most of the

events which have occurred in the present case and have tarnished the

image of the Commission. In my view the maxims "Qui non obstat quod

obstare potest facere videtur" (he who does not prevent what he can, seems

to commit the thing) and "Qui non prohibit quod prohibere potest

assentire videtur" (he who does not forbid what he can forbid, seems to

assent', apply to acts of the Commission and would alter the equities against

the petitioner(s). As stated In Re Ram Ashray Yadav (supra), absolute

integrity and impartiality is required to be exercised by the Chairman and

Members of the Commission to maintain the dignity of their office. The

Commission has been entrusted with the task of selecting candidates to

various posts under the Government and, therefore, the function of the

Commission is of great importance. Most appropriately the words of Shri

H.V. Kamath, Member of the Constituent Assembly, can be referred at this

stage: "Whenever democratic institutions exist, experience has shown that

it is essential to protect the public service as far as possible from political

and personal influences and to give it that position, stability and security
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 80 ]

which is vital to its successful working as an impartial and efficient

instrument by which the Government, of whatever political complexion,

may give effect to their policies." These were the expectations of the

framers of the Constitution from the Chairman and Members of the

Commission. The Committee consisting of Hon'ble Mr. Justice J.S. Khehar,

as he then was, Hon'ble Mr. Jusice Surya Kant and Hon'ble Mr. Justice

Viney Mittal in its ultimate analysis has observed as under: In the present case, there are allegations of fraud, cheating and

other misdeeds and misdemeanours and this is to be seen in the light of

mass scale manipulations and award of marks to various candidates, who

had secured high marks in the written examination but have been given very

low marks in the interview. There are also candidates who have not been

selected in the present selection, but subsequently they have been selected

by the UPSC in other examinations. The conspiracy in the present case is

with regard to effect mischief, the cumulative effect of reading the report of

the Committee and the examination of record clearly indicates deceitful act

which caused extreme injury to the deserving prospective civil servants as a
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 81 ]

whole. Such an act can be classified as a conspiracy to defraud or

conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. The objects and means of the

conspiracy were in substance of such kind as have been recognized even by

the criminal law. There is a mischief by doing willfully deceitful acts or

agreed to procure benefits to the others by willfully deceitful acts for them

with a purpose to give benefit, which has caused extreme injury to the

general public as well as to the persons who had appeared in the competitive

examination. I am not recording the finding of guilt here at this stage since

that is to be decided by the criminal court where the parameters are

altogether different. When the conspiracy is with regard to the functioning

to the Public Service Commission, there is still a scope for extension in the

fact situation. It should be borne in mind that conspiracies are always

hatched in secrecy and rarely come to the notice. It is said that the people of

same trade seldom meet together even for merriment and diversions but the

conversation and in conspiracy against the public or in some contrivance to

raise the price. Some believes prices are established by supply and demand.

The other believes that prices are the result of conspiracy whims or

production costs. Here in this case too many players are involved in

conspiracy to be plausible. Secrecy is a badge of fraud. In the present case,

the circumstances as narrated above clearly indicate, where justice is denied,

where ignorance prevails, where a class is made to feel that Commission in

an organized conspiracy to oppress, rob and degrade has acted in such a

manner, neither persons nor documents are safe. The Chairman had played a

role which has resulted in unfair selection. The evidence shows, Sh.

Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu was leader of the conspiracy to commit these
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 82 ]

frauds. The evidence of mass-scale corruption, huge recoveries of money

and tampering in records and the answer sheets is indicative of this fact. All

the conspiracies are the same taut story of men who find coherence in some

criminal acts. There is no lack of plan. From the documents produced before

the Committee, such conspiracy increases the elements of morbity, paranoia

and fantasy in this part of the country. In the present case there is a heinous,

strong and bold hidden conspiracy, which is a tragedy without reason. So far

as the petitioners are concerned, it would be relevant to quote Sophocles,

who said "Rather fail with honour than succeed by fraud". Ferdecik

Libertson said "there are three things in the world that deserve no mercy,

hypocrisy, fraud and tyranny". In the present case, the voluminous

evidence examined by the Judges' Committee as well as this Court clearly

indicates that there is a large scale violation of rules and regulations, there is

a lack of integrity on the part of the Commission and it committed gravest

kind of misconduct in selections. There are many omissions, commissions

and administrative lapses which indicate that the Chairman of the

commission acted in improper and wrong manner and did forbidden acts.

There is transgression of established and definite rules of conduct, it is not

mere error of judgment, carelessness or negligence in performance of the

duties by the Commission, rather, it appears that this has been done under a

high level conspiracy. The recoveries of huge money effected from the

Chairman of the Commission and the property in the name of members of

his family, after becoming the Chairman clearly provide the fuel of criminal

conspiracy. White Collar Crime of the present type are very complex and in

the present case, there is basically a conspiracy and theft of honest services
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 83 ]

which are not expected from the Chairman, virtually it can be termed as a

tool of oppression or it can be said intimidation of the honest prospective

civil servants. It is a case where the selected candidates either in person or

through their wards have joined a consortium together resulting into major

conspiracy wherein the selections have been made in a dishonest manner.

These acts committed by the Commission are sufficient to conclude that

they have committed a public fraud. In other words it can be termed as a

public mischief committed by the Chairman of the Commission, others and

the beneficiaries. While deciding the case of criminal conspiracy and a civil

conspiracy different parameters apply. The Commission had committed such

an act which is apparently a public mischief which has undermined the

public justice or public moral against the purpose for which the Commission

was constituted. The framers of the Constitution have expected that it will

be making selections with honesty, integrity and without favour and act in

an impartial manner, resultant fair and competitive selection with a purpose

to bring efficiency and raise morale of public servants. It would be appropriate to mention that an ordinary man, a poor

prospective candidate cannot defend himself against the persons who are

acting in combination. The perusal of the Committee report and the police

and vigilance report and record shown to this Court clearly indicate a

strongest element of infringement of public interest. All the conspiracies are

mischief by nature, so all affect a public mischief. Over the years, different

types of conspiracies have been put into different pigeon holes, such as

conspiracy to pervert the course of justice or conspiracy to cheat and

defraud. Sometimes a conspiracy to commit a crime or a tortuous act cannot
 CWP No.8421 of 2002 & connected matters [ 84 ]

easily be put into one or other of the pigeon holes. The present is a

conspiracy which can be classified with precision to affect a public

mischief. This type of conspiracy is like a "suspense account". In the case of Union of India vs. O. Chakradhar , (2002) 3

SCC 146, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:- In the light of the above discussion and also keeping in view

the nature and extent of illegalities and irregularities committed in

selections under a deep-routed conspiracy, a clear case is made out that

entire selection stood vitiated and it is impossible to identify and segregate

tainted or non-tainted candidates as mischief played is all pervasive

affecting the entire selection, as to make it difficult to pick out of the

numerous candidates, the ones who have been unlawfully benefitted or

wrongfully deprived of their selection. Even no prejudice has been caused

to the petitioners or other candidates, as special chance to appear in fresh

examination was given to them. Keeping in view the aims and objectives of

the Commission only way out would be cancellation of whole selection

process and consequent selections and appointments. In view of the above, writ petitions are dismissed.