Since all these bail applications arise from one and

the same FIR, they are being decided together by this

common order. 2. Applicants Vineet Kumar, Manjeet, Parikshit @

Prince and Sherkhan are in judicial custody in Case FIR No.

371 of 2021, under Sections 386 , 506 , 34 IPC, Police Station

Bahadrabad, District Haridwar. They have sought their

release on bail. 3. Heard learned counsel for the parties through

video conferencing and perused the record. 4. According to the case, on 24.09.2021, the

informant received two phone calls of extortion demanding

Rs. 50,00,000/-, or else threatening to life. The informant

lodged a report on 25.09.2021. It is the prosecution case that

subsequently on 05.01.2022, all the four applicants were

apprehended and from their possession country-made pistols

were also recovered, except the applicant Vineet Kumar. The

recovery memo records that the applicants then revealed that

they had demanded money from the informant, and when the

money was not given, they had opened fire shots in front of

the house of the informant also. 5. Learned counsel for the applicants would submit

that the money has not been transferred in the case. At the

most, it may be a case under Section 385 IPC, which is

bailable; the applicants are nowhere connected with the

offence. There is no legally admissible evidence against them;

hence, it is a case fit for bail. 6. Learned State counsel would submit that the

applicants were arrested with the weapons. They have

confessed and arms were recovered from them. 7. Learned counsel for the informant would submit

that after lodging of the FIR, the firing was also done in front

of the house of the informant. 8. Admittedly, the money was not transferred. It is a

case of threatening over telephone. Though it is stated on

behalf of the State that calls were recorded, but it has not

been shown that any voice samples were taken and they were

confirmed with the voice of the applicants. Some mobile

phones were allegedly recovered from the applicants, one of

which was said to be stolen by the one of the applicants.

Admittedly, the applicants were not the previous convicts. 9. Having considered, this Court is of the view that

the applicants deserve to be enlarged on bail. 10. The bail applications are allowed. 11. Let Applicants Vineet Kumar, Manjeet, Parikshit @

Prince and Sherkhan be released on bail, on their executing a

personal bond and furnishing two reliable sureties by each

one of them, each of the like amount, to the satisfaction of

the Court concerned. (Ravindra Maithani, J.)
 01.08.2022
Jitendra