(Delivered on this 21st day of February, 2019)
Per : S. C. Sharma, J. The present writ appeal has been filed under Section

2(1) of the Madhya Pradesh Uchcha Nyayalaya (Khand

Nyayapeeth Ko Appeal) Adhiniyam, 2005 being aggrieved by order

dated 14/11/2013 passed by learned Single Judge in Writ Petition

No.2801/2012 (Sansar Publication Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Indore

Development Authority & Another). 02- The facts of the case reveal that the sole respondent

before this Court Sansar Publication Private Limited, a Company

registered under the Companies Act, 1956, came-up before this

Court with a prayer for quashment of order dated 14/03/2012 Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 -2- passed by Indore Development Authority by which the allotment of

land to the petitioner in respect of plot No.A-7, Scheme No.54, PU- 4, Commercial was cancelled. 03- The undisputed facts further reveal that without issuing

any tender notice, a plot was allotted to the sole respondent Sansar

Publication Private Limited on 30/04/1992 and possession was also

given to Sansar Publication Private Limited on 01/05/1992. A lease

deed was executed on 14/02/1997 for a period of 30 years. The

plot, which was allotted to the respondent was a commercial plot

and the Indore Development Authority also allotted various plots to

various newspapers irrespective of their circulation again without

adhering to tender process on concessional rates. 04- The allotment of plot to various newspapers in the

Press Complex and the allotment of plot, which was done in favour

of respondent No.1 i.e. Plot No.7, Scheme No.54, PU-4,

Commercial was a subject matter of scrutiny before this Court in a

Public Interest Litigation filed by one Vijay Kumar Tiwari i.e. Writ

Petition No.3518/1992. In the writ petition, which was preferred by

way of Public Interest Litigation, the order dated 17/12/1991 issued

by State Government, Department of Housing and Environment

was the subject matter of challenge by which plots were allotted to

respondent No.1 and other newspapers on concessional rates. 05- The Division Bench of this Court has allowed the Writ

Petition No.3518/1992 on 09/12/2005 and has quashed the

allotments in favour of all newspapers as well as in respect of

respondent before this Court and all the consequential actions were

set aside. The Division Bench of this Court, while setting aside the

allotment has certainly observed that Indore Development Authority

shall be free to allot the land keeping in view the Rule 5 and Rule 6

of the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Vikasit

Bhoomiyo, Griho, Bhavano Tatha Anya Sanrachnaon Ka Vyayan

Niyam, 1975 (hereinafter referred to as "Rules of 1975"), however,

it was made clear by the Division Bench that if the plots are again

allotted to the same parties or to other individual in terms of the

aforesaid Rules, they will not be entitled for allotment on

concessional rates. 06- The respondent pursuant to the judgment delivered by

the Division Bench of this Court wrote a letter on 08/02/2006 for

inviting the respondent for negotiation in the matter of allotment of

plot and again requested on 16/10/2006 for allotment of plot afresh. 07- The respondent thereafter, preferred a writ petition i.e.

Writ Petition No.1372/2008 before this Court and the Division

Bench of this Court while deciding the petition preferred by

respondent has directed the Indore Development Authority to Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 -4- consider the matter afresh and an observation was also made that

in the case of Chogelal Yadav, it has been held that newspapers

also serves educational purpose and after observing the same the

petition was disposed of by directing the Indore Development

Authority to treat the applications filed by the newspapers as fresh

applications and to consider the matter afresh for grant of allotment

in favour of the applicants. 08- The respondent again submitted a representation on

25/02/2008 for allotment of land and also submitted a reminder on

13/05/2008. The Indore Development Authority in respect of other

newspapers, wherein the plots were in existence in Scheme No.54,

Press Complex issued letter dated 25/07/2008, directing them to

pay the amount as per the commercial rates keeping in view the

Collector guidelines. No such letter was issued to the petitioner and

the petitioner thereafter, preferred a writ petition i.e. Writ Petition

No.5068/2008 and this Court by an order dated 12/09/2008 has

directed the Indore Development Authority to decide the petitioner's

representation and also directed that in case the petitioner is not

found entitled for any relief, a speaking order should be passed in

the matter. 09- The petitioner, thereafter, submitted a detailed

representation on 19/09/2008 requesting for allotment of plot and Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 -5- finally preferred a writ petition i.e. Writ Petition No.6597/2009

seeking allotment of plot and an interim order was passed on

10/09/2009 directing the Indore Development Authority to grant

similar relief to the petitioner, which has been extended to other

newspapers. Thereafter, again on 16/09/2009, learned Single

Judge again directed the Indore Development Authority to comply

the earlier order passed in the matter and finally on 30/10/2009 a

detailed and exhaustive order was passed by the learned Single

Judge to grant the same relief, which has been extended to other

newspapers and the learned Single Judge also observed that the

matter shall be treated as part-heard. 10- Against the interim order passed by the learned Single

Judge, the Division Bench of this Court on 16/01/2012 passed an

order in Writ Appeal No.401/2009 directing the Indore Development

Authority to consider the case of allotment of plot to Sansar

Publication Private Limited and to take a reasoned decision in the

matter. Thereafter, a review petition i.e. Review Petition No.81/2012

was preferred in the matter by Sansar Publication Private Limited

and finally an order was passed by Indore Development Authority

on 14/03/2012, by which the request of the petitioner to allot the

plot has been rejected. 11- Against the order dated 14/03/2012 a writ petition i.e. Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 -6- Writ Petition No.2801/2012 was preferred and the learned Single

Judge on 14/11/2013 has allowed the writ petition and has directed

the Indore Development Authority to accept the difference of money

in respect of commercial rate and the rate on which the plot was

allotted to the petitioner as applicable in the relevant year when the

plot was initially allotted, meaning thereby, the rate applicable in the

year 1992. The judgment was delivered by the learned Single

Judge in the year 2013 directing the Indore Development Authority

to allot a plot and to accept commercial rates of the year 1992. 12- The Indore Development Authority has filed the present

writ appeal before this Court in the matter. Shri A. K. Sethi, learned

Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of respondent has vehemently

argued before this Court that in respect of other newspapers to

whom plots have been allotted in Scheme No.54, the Indore

Development Authority has regularized all the allotments by

accepting the difference between commercial rate and

concessional rate. They are in possession and therefore, a similar

treatment has rightly been extended by the learned Single Judge to

the respondent Sansar Publication Private Limited and no case for

interference is made out in the matter. 13- Heard learned counsel for the parties at length and

perused the record. The undisputed facts reveal that as on date, Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 -7- there is no allotment in existence in favour of respondent Choutha

Sansar. Undisputed facts also reveal that not a single rupee

deposited by the respondent, at the of initial allotment, is with the

Indore Development Authority. Undisputed facts also reveal that

Indore Development Authority is in possession of the plot in

question. The undisputed facts also reveal that plots, which were

allotted to other newspapers are in a different scheme, which was

meant for Press Complex, whereas the petitioner is claiming a plot

bearing No.A-7 is under another scheme of Indore Development

Authority i.e. Scheme No.54, PU-4 and the plot is purely a

commercial plot. 14- The allotment of plots to various newspapers

irrespective of their circulation on the basis of order issued by the

State Government Department of Housing and Environment, dated

17/12/1991 was subjected to judicial scrutiny before this Court in a

writ petition preferred by way of Public Interest Litigation by one

Vijay Kumar Tiwari in Writ Petition No.3518/1992 (Vijay Kumar

Tiawri Vs. State of M. P. and Others). The Division Bench of this

Court on 09/12/2005 in the aforesaid writ petition in paragraphs

No.7 to 19 has held as under:- 8. After the period of 13 years on 14-3-05 orders were
passed and return has been filed by the State Govt. 9. Counsel for respondent No. 4 submitted that the lands
have been allotted to them on the orders of the State Govt. and
there is no irregularity in the said allotment. 10. The question involved in the case is whether State Govt.
or its Officers on their own can issue directions for sale of land
of the authority on a concessional rate in violation of the rules
and procedure for transfer of land, whether running of the
newspaper can be said to be a charitable purpose. 11. Section 58 of the act of the Adhiniyam is clear and
specific. Section 58 is reproduced below :-- 12. On perusal of the aforesaid provision it is clear that
transfer of the lands, buildings and other development works
shall be subject to rules as made by the State Govt. Therefore,
Town and Country Development Authority has to act in a
reasonable and open manner in its dealing with the citizens. It
can transfer the lands strictly in terms of the rules. Under
Section 56 of the Adhiniyam the lands vests with the Authority,
therefore, the transfer of land either by sale or by lease should
be strictly in terms of the rules framed by the State Govt. or the
regulations of the Authority. Rules of 1975 specifies the person
entitled for getting the land on concessional terms which is
provided under Rules 19 and 20. Rule 20 of the Rules is
reproduced below :- 13. Under the Rule, ordinarily, no lease or sale of land on
concessional rates shall be allowed, for the purposes other than
charitable purposes. Thus, Legislature intended the land on
concessional rate can be given to any public institution or body
registered for the charitable purposes. Except the bodies Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 -9- mentioned in the Rule 20 no other body or press is entitled for
the lease on concessional rate. Newspapers does not fall within
the definition of charitable purpose. Charitable purpose has
been considered in the case of Municipal Corporation of Delhi
vs. Children Book Trust reported in AIR 1992 SC 1456 and it is
held that an institution imparting education in school can not be
regarded as a charitable object. An element of public benefit or
philanthropy has to be present. Today, education has acquired a
wider meaning. If education is imparted with a profit motive, to
hold, in such a case, as charitable purpose, will not be correct.
Thus charitable purpose should not be given to the body which
is used for a profit motive. Thus newspapers do not fall within
the definition as Institution for charitable purpose. 14. Therefore, transfer of land of the Authority on the orders
of the State Govt. at concessional rate by any authority to the
newspaper or any other institution which is not a charitable
institution is void ab-initio and contrary to provisions of Section
57 and Rules made thereunder. State has to act strictly within
the four corners of the law. It can not distribute lands causing
loss to the authority. Therefore, disposal of the lands pursuant to
the letter of a Secretary or Govt. is objectionable for more than
one reason. Fair play is expected from the State Govt. and they
must act in accordance with the law. It is contended by the
respondents that newspaper plays a very important role in the
Society, therefore, they are entitled for concession. This bald
statement has no force. The act of the Govt. in distributing
largess amounts to influencing the press. In a democracy, strong
and independent press is requirement of the Society. However,
by distributing largess to press in order to gain favour is against
the settled norms of democracy. State Govt. can not act in
violation of the Adhiniyam and Rule made thereunder. 15. In a similar situation the Apex Court in the case of Ram
and Shyam Company v. State of Haryana and Others reported
in AIR 1985 SC 1147 has observed in Para 18 of its judgment as
under:- 16. Therefore, as held in the case of Ram and Shyam (supra), it is not permissible to grant lease on concessional rate
to Press and any decision, circular or cabinet decision of the
State Government which is violative of the statutory rules will
have no force of law being against the provisions of the Rules.
In the circumstances, entire action of the Authorities of the State
of Madhya Pradesh in directing allotment of lands of the Town
and Country Development Authority in the State of Madhya
Pradesh on concessional rates to the newspapers is de hors of
the Rules. Said directions are contrary to law and the
notifications deserves to be quashed. Allotment of lands on
concessional rates by the State Authorities against the Rules
framed causing loss to the Development Authority deserve to be
quashed. Orders of the Authorities of the State Government and
the Cabinet decision granting lands on concessional rates is
nullity and are quashed as without jurisdiction. In consequence,
leases granted on concessional rates in pursuance of the letters Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 11 - of the Authority Annexures P/9, R-3/13, R-3/14, R-3/19 for
 allotment to respondent No. 4 is quashed. Minutes of the Sub-
 Committee dated 4-10-1991 Annexure R-l filed with the return of
 the State Government is also quashed being violative of Rules
 19,20 and 21 of the Rules. However, respondent No. 4 will be at
 liberty to negotiate with the Development Authority in terms of
 the order dated 24-9-1992 passed by the Indore Bench of the
 High Court in Writ Petition No. 1873/91 ( Shri Kranti Kumar
 Shukla v. State of M.P. and Anr. ). All the leases granted on
 concessional rates against Rules 19 and 20 are void and are
 quashed: 17. It is further directed that the lands of the Development
 Authority shall be transferred strictly in terms of the Rule 5 of the
 Rules which provides that the lands shall be transferred as
 under:- 18. Lands in the present case shall be transferred in the light
 of the directions of the Division Bench of the Indore High Court
 in the case of Shri Kranti Kumar Shukla (supra) or by public
 auction or by inviting tenders. If the Authorities decide to dispose
 of the lands by negotiations, then negotiations shall be strictly in
 terms of the Rule 6 of the Rules and not otherwise.
 Development Authority will be at liberty to transfer the lands in
 terms of Rule 6 of the Rules. Parties who had been allotted the
 lands will also be entitled for transfer of lands in terms of the
 Rules and not on concessional rates. 19. Petition succeeds and is allowed. In the circumstances of
 the case, there shall be no order as to costs." The Division Bench of this Court has set aside all the

allotments and all the leases granted on concessional rates,

holding that they were executed in violation of Rule 19 and 20 of

the Rules of 1975. The Division Bench has also held that the land

belonging to Indore Development Authority shall be transferred

strictly in terms of Rule 5 of the Rules of 1975 and by no stretch of

imagination, the land can be allotted on concessional rates. - 12 - 15- The undisputed facts also reveal that initial leases,

which were executed in respect of other newspapers, are also not

in existence at present and no fresh lease deed has been executed

till date in respect of other newspapers also. Learned counsel

appearing for Indore Development Authority has categorically

stated before this Court that till date after the judgment was

delivered by the Division Bench in the case of Vijay Kumar Tiwari,

not a single lease deed has been executed, meaning thereby, the

issue in respect of other newspapers has not been crystallized yet. 16- The another important aspect of the case is that the

other newspapers, who have been allotted plots, some of them

have either constructed a building and some of them are carrying

out various other activities, however, in the case of petitioner its an

open plot under the possession of Indore Development Authority. 17- After the judgment was delivered by this Court in the

case of Vijay Kumar Tiwari, the respondent kept on representing

before the authorities for allotment of plot and a writ petition was

preferred by the petitioner for allotment of plot and other

newspapers have also preferred various writ petition and by a

consolidated order dated 19/02/2008 passed in bunch of cases (the

petition filed by the petitioner was Writ Petition No.1372/2008), the

Division Bench has directed the Indore Development Authority to Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 13 - treat the applications of the petitioners as fresh applications and to

take a decision on the merits of each case, in accordance with law. Paragraphs No.7 to 15 of the aforesaid judgment reads as under:- W.P. No. 1873/91. 11. We may now advert to the judgment of the Supreme
Court in K.K. Bhalla 's case (supra). In the said judgment , the
land was earmarked for commercial purposes in the master
plan but it was allotted for industrial use for printing
newspapers, thus, it was not a case where the land ear marked
for charitable purposes, had been allotted to a newspaper as is
the case in hand. Despite having come to the conclusion that
the allotment suffered from a basic flaw and illegality, the
Supreme Court in the said report in Paragraph 75 expressed
opinion that the interest of justice would be subserved if the
question as regards allotment of land is left open to the
Development Authority ( in that case Jabalpur Development
Authority), and it was directed that the Authority may consider
the matter afresh for grant of such allotment in favour of the
Private respondent (newspapers) treating the applications filed
by them either before it or before the State Government, as
fresh applications. 12. We, therefore, do not perceive any ground to differ from
what has been directed by Their Lordships in K.K. Bhalla Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 15 - (supra). For convenience, we reproduce Paragraph 75 of the
report hereunder:- 13. From the narration of the facts above, it is luculent that
insofar as charitable purpose was concerned, Chogelal Yadav's
case, clearly concluded the issue by holding that newspapers
also served an educational purpose and were, therefore,
entitled to be considered for allotment in accordance with Rules.
This position became further manifest in the judgment of K.K.
Bhalla (supra), wherein Their Lordships held that no lease on
concessional terms shall be allowed for purposes other than
charitable purposes such as hospital, educational institutions
and orphanages. It appears that this judgment was not brought
to the notice of the learned Judges in Vijay Kumar Tiwari
(supra). It was also not brought to the notice of the Court that
the designated use of the land in the Development Plan was
"Educational". 14. Under these circumstances, we are of the view that the
course suggested by the Supreme Court in K.K. Bhalla (supra),
and by this Court in Vijay Kumar Tiwari's case (supra), for
treating the applications as fresh applications and decision
thereon, on the merits of each case should be adopted in the
present case also. We make it clear, that Development Authority
shall proceed to decide the application consistent with the law
laid down as hereinabove referred to. 15. The petition W.P. No. 4806/2007, Jeevan Singh v. State
of M.P. and Ors. is accordingly, dismissed and the other
petitions are disposed of with the direction to Indore
Development Authority to treat the applications filed by these Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 16 - newspapers as fresh applications and consider the matter
 afresh for grant of such allotment in favour of the applicants
 consistent with the provisions of law as referred to above . The
 Indore Development Authority shall endeavour to decide these
 cases as expeditiously as possible, preferably within a period of
 four months. There shall be no order as to costs." The Division Bench in the second round of litigation,

where the petitions were filed by the newspaper owners, have

observed that newspapers should be treated as an institution

imparting education and allotment can be done as they are serving

charitable purposes keeping in view the Chogelal Yadav's case. 18- Undisputedly, the plot was not again allotted to the

petitioner and the petitioner again preferred a writ petition i.e. Writ

Petition No.5068/2008 and the learned Single Judge on 12/09/2008

has directed the Indore Development Authority to take a decision

within a period of two months by taking into account the

subsequent Division Bench's judgment dated 19/02/2008 (Annex.- P/9). Order dated 12/09/2008 passed by the learned Single Judge

reads as under:- 19- The petitioner as well as Indore Development Authority

sought various legal opinions in the matter and names of senior

advocates find place in paragraph No.14 of the impugned judgment

and all of them have advised for re-allotment of plot to the petitioner

on the terms on which the plots were being re-allotted to the other

owners of the newspapers. 20- At this stage, it is necessary to mention that letters

were certainly issued by Indore Development Authority for re- allotment to other newspapers but no final decision has been taken

till date and no fresh lease has been executed till date by the

Indore Development Authority. The petitioner, thereafter, again

preferred a writ petition and the learned Single Judge vide order Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 18 - dated 10/09/2009 passed in Writ Petition No.6597/2009 again

directed the Indore Development Authority to grant requisite relief

to respondent Company in accordance with law. 21- The learned Single Judge, thereafter, passed a detailed

and exhaustive order dated 30/10/2009 and the Indore

Development Authority was directed to file compliance report. The

order passed by the learned Single Judge was subjected to judicial

scrutiny in Writ appeal and Division Bench by an order dated

16/01/2012 has directed the Indore Development Authority to take

a final decision in the matter. The order dated 16/01/2012 passed in

Writ Appeal No.401/2009 reads as under:- 22- The Indore Development Authority has finally passed

an order dated 14/03/20112. The learned Single Judge has

quashed the aforesaid order and has directed the Indore

Development Authority to allot a plot to respondent by taking into

account the rates applicable in the year 1992. The learned Single

Judge has totally ignored the vital aspect of the case that the plot in

question, which was earlier allotted to the respondent, is not a part

of land of the scheme meant for Press Complex. Its a land located

in commercial locality i.e. in Scheme No.54, PU-4, Commercial. Thus, the location of two sites is altogether different. The learned

Single Judge has observed that both the plots are on A. B. Road

and has issued a writ of mandamus to the Indore Development

Authority for allotment of plot. 23- The apex Court in the case of M/s. Chingleput

Bottlers Vs. M/s. Majestic Bottling Co. reported in AIR 1984 SC

1030 has dealt with writ of mandamus and certiorari as well as

jurisdiction of High Court. Until and unless there is a legal duty

imposed upon Indore Development Authority to allot a plot, a writ of

mandamus cannot be issued in the manner and method it has been

done. No mandamus can be issued where the duty sought to be

enforced is of discretionary nature nor a mandamus can be issued Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 20 - to compel the performance by such public body or authority of an

act contrary to law. Paragraphs No.12, 13, 17 and 22 of the

aforesaid judgment reads as under:- In the present case, allotment of land is done as per the Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 22 - Rules in existence. The Indore Development Authority being a

public body has to take action strictly in consonance with the

statutory provisions. This Court cannot direct the Indore

Development Authority nor this Court can compel the Indore

Development Authority to act contrary to law. In the considered

opinion of this Court, the learned Single Judge had no jurisdiction

to issue a writ of mandamus to the Indore Development Authority to

allot a commercial plot to respondent by taking into account the

rates applicable in the year 1992. 24- The apex Court in the case of Prabodh Verma and

Others Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others reported in AIR

1985 SC 167 has dealt with writ of mandamus and has also dealt

with various prerogative writs. Paragraphs No.34 to 38 of the

aforesaid judgment reads as under:- 35. By the Administration of Justice (Miscellaneous
provisions) Act, 1938 (I and 2 Geo. 6 c.63) a more expeditious
procedure was introduced under which instead of writs, orders
of mandamus prohibition and certiorari are to be issued and the
writ of quo warranto was abolished and its place an injunction is
to issue against the usurper to the office in question restraining
him from acting in that office and, if the case so requires,
declaring that office to be vacant. These were, however,
procedural changes only. By order 53 of the Rules of the
Supreme Court, 1965, substituted for the old order 53 by Rules
of Supreme Court (Amendment No.3), 1977 (S.1. 1977
No.1955), far reaching changes, not merely in the form but in
the substance of procedural law, were introduced whereby
reliefs by way of mandamus, prohibition, certiorari, declaration
and injunction have been joined together under the general
head of `judicial review' for which an application can be made
for any or all of these reliefs in the alternative or in addition to
other reliefs arising out of the same matter and the court is also
conferred the power to award damages. An application,
however, cannot be made without leave of the court and unless
the court "considers that the applicant has a sufficient interest in
the matter to which the application relates". The expression
`sufficient interest' has enabled the court in England to enlarge
the rule of locus standi by giving to that expression a liberal
interpretation. 36. In India, prior to the Constitution, the power to issue
prerogative writs was vested only in three High Courts, that is,
the High Courts established by Letters Patent issued by Queen Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 24 - Victoria under authority given by the Indian High Courts Act,
1861 (24 & 25 Vict c, 104) for the establishment of the High
Courts of Judicature at Fort William in Bengal and at Madras
and at Bombay for these three presidencies, namely, the High
Courts of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay. Hence this Act is
generally called the Charter Act and the High Courts established
there under the Chartered High Courts. These High Courts were
the successors so far as their original jurisdictions were
concerned of the Supreme Courts which were established in
these three Presidency- towns and inherited from those courts
the powers of the Courts of King's Bench which included the
power to issue prerogative writs, Apart from these three High
Courts none of the other High Courts in India possessed this
power. The position was changed when the Constitution of India
came into force. Article 225 continues the jurisdiction of existing
High Courts. Article 226 , however, confers upon every High
Court the power to issue to any person or authority, including in
proper cases, any Government, within the territories in relation
to which it exercises jurisdiction, "directions, orders or writs,
including writs in the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus,
prohibition, quo warranto and certiorari or any of them, for the
enforcement of the rights conferred by Part III or for any other
purpose". It may be mentioned that under Article 32 of the
Constitution, the same power as has been conferred upon the
High Courts is conferred upon this Court without any restriction
as to territorial jurisdiction but, unlike the High Court, restricted
only to the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III
of the Constitution, namely, the Fundamental Rights. Referring
to Article 226 , this Court in Dwarka nath, Hindu Undivided
Family vs. Income Tax officer, Special Circle. Kanpur (1865) 3
SCR 536, 540-41 : (AUR 1966 SC 81 at Pp. 84 & 85) said: (Emphasis supplied) 37. The fact that the High Courts and a fortiori this Court have
power to mould the reliefs to meet the requirements of each
case does not mean that the draftsman of a writ petition should
not apply his mind to the proper relief which should be asked for
and throw the entire burden of it upon the Court. An Advocate
owes a duty to his client as well as to the Court a duty to his
client to give of his best to the case which he has undertaken to
conduct for his client and a duty to assist the Court to the utmost
of his skill and ability in the proper and satisfactory
administration of justice. In our system of administration of
justice the courts have a right to receive assistance from the Bar
and it is the duty of the advocate who drafts a writ petition or
any other pleading to ask for appropriate reliefs. The true nature
of a writ of certiorari has been pointed out this by Court In
several decisions. We need refer to only one of them, namely, Udi Narain Singh Malpaharia v. Additional Member, Board of
Revenue, Bihar (1963) Suppl 1 SCR 676, 682 : (AIR 1963 SC
786 at p.788). In that case Subba Rao. J., as he then was,
speaking for the court, said: 38. A writ in the nature of certiorari is thus a wholly
inappropriate relief to ask for when the constitutional validity of a
legislative measure is challenged and it is surprising to find that
in spite of repeated pronouncements of this Court as to the true
nature of this writ it should have been asked for in the Sangh's
petition. As pointed out in Dwarkanath's case, under Article 226
the High Courts have the power to issue directions, orders and Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 26 - writs, including prerogative writs, This power includes the giving
 of declarations as also consequential reliefs including relief by
 way of injunction. The proper relief for the petitioners in the
 Sangh's petition to have asked was a declaration that U.P.
 Ordinance No, 22 of 1978 was unconstitutional and void and, if
 a consequential relief was thought necessary, a writ of
 mandamus or writ in the nature of mandamus or a direction,
 order or injunction restraining the State and its officers from
 enforcing or giving effect to the provisions of that ordinance. The
 High Court granted the proper relief by declaring that Ordinance
 to be void but it should have, before proceeding to hear the writ
 petition, insisted that the petitioners should set their house in
 order by amending the petition and praying for proper reliefs.
 The High Court was too indulgent in this matter. After all, it was
 not a petition from a Prisoner languishing in jail or from a
 bonded labourer or a party in person or by a public spirited
 citizen seeking to bring a gross injustice to the notice of the
 court Here, the High Court had before it as the main petitioner a
 union which had taken collective action to enforce its demands
 and had defied the Government by flouting its orders and an
 ordinance promulgated by the Governor, namely, U.P.
 Ordinance No. 25 of 1977 and had by reason of its collective
 might ultimately made the Government come to terms with it.
 The petitioners were represented by well known Counsel, one of
 them practising in this Court. It is true that neither this Court
 should dismiss a writ petition on a mere technicality or just
 because a proper relief is not asked for; but from this it does not
 follow that it should condone every kind of laxity. We would not
 have dwelt upon this aspect of the case but for the fact that we
 find that laxity in drafting all types of pleadings is becoming the
 rule and a well-drafted pleading, an exception. An ill-drafted
 pleading is an offspring of the union of carelessness with
 imprecise thinking and its brothers are slipshod preparation of
 the case and rambling and irrelevant arguments leading to
 waste of time which the courts can ill afford by reason of their
 overcrowded dockets." Keeping in view the aforesaid, it is true that a High

Court can issue a writ of mandamus, however, as enshrined in the

Constitution of India, at the same, it has to be established before

commanding the public authority that there is a legally enforceable

right in favour of a person and the public authority or public

functionary is denying legally enforceable right to such person. - 27 - 25- In apex Court in the case of M/s. Shenoy and

Company, Bangalore and Others Vs. Commercial Tax Officers,

Circle-II, Bagalore and Others reported in AIR 1985 SC 621 in

paragraph No.19 has held as under:- In the aforesaid case, the apex Court has reiterated

that the authorities cannot be compelled to perform a negative duty. In the present case, in fact the authorities are being compelled to

perform a negative duty by directing allotment of commercial plot

situated in different locality that too by charging the rates applicable

in the year 1992 in the year 2019, dehors the allotment rules. - 28 - 26- Article 226 of the Constitution of India deal with powers

of High Court to issue certain writs. The power of judicial review is

implicit in a written constitution and unless expressly excluded by a

provision of the Constitution, this powers is available in respect of

exercise of powers under any provisions of the Constitution. Article

226 empowers the High Courts to issue writ, order or direction in

the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto

and certiorari. The writ of mandamus literally means a command. Mandamus is a command issued to direct any person, corporation,

inferior Court or Government, requiring him or them to do some

particular thing specified which appertains to his or their office and

is in the nature of public duty. 27- It is a settled preposition of law that in order to obtain a

writ or order in the nature of mandamus, a person has to satisfy the

following conditions:- orders having the force of law. Thus, in short for issuing a mandamus there has to be

a legally enforceable right under the statute and the public authority

is under an obligation to follow the statute and to perform. 28- The mandamus cannot be issued to direct the Indore

Development Authority to perform a duty or to do something, which

is not provided under the statute. The statute governing the field

known as Madhya Pradesh Vikas Pradhikarano Ki Sampatiyon Ka

Prabandhan Tatha Vyayan Niyam, 2018 (hereinafter referred as

"Rules of 2018") does not provide for allotment without following

prescribed procedure under the Rules of 2018. The earlier Rules of

1975 also provided a prescribed procedure. 29- The learned Single Judge could not have, in the

peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, issued a writ or

mandamus directing the Indore Development Authority and

compelling the Indore Development Authority to allot a plot to the

petitioner, contrary to the statutory provisions as contained under

the Rules of 1975. As on date, the Rules of 2018 are in vogue and

therefore, by no stretch of imagination the Rules can be given a

complete go-bye. 30- In the considered opinion of this Court, the learned

Single Judge has erred in law and facts in allowing the writ petition Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 30 - preferred by the respondent. There cannot be an allotment dehors

to the statutory allotment rules. In the present case, no fresh lease

deed, after the judgment was delivered by the Division Bench, has

been executed in case of other newspapers. The issue is yet to be

finalized and therefore, the petitioner cannot claim parity with other

newspapers. 31- The petitioner again cannot claim parity with other

newspapers as the plot of the petitioner is not situated in the

newspaper complex, on the contrary it is a commercial plot situated

in different locality and it is a prime piece of valuable land having

value of more than Rs.250 Crores as informed by the Indore

Development Authority. 32- Learned counsel Shri Purushaindra Kaurav, who has

earlier appeared in the matter has argued before this Court the plot

worth about Rs.200 to 250 Crores, cannot be given for few lakhs of

rupees as prayed by the petitioner by charging the rate, which were

applicable in the year 1992. By taking into account the arguments

canvassed by learned counsel Shri Purushaindra Kaurav (the

earlier Advocate General), who has earlier argued the matter at

length, this Court is of the opinion that State cannot be subjected to

a loss of more than Rs.200 Crores. Ultimately its public money and

its poor tax payers' money. The Indore Development Authority is Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 31 - certainly free to allot the land in accordance with law keeping in

view the Rules framed on the subject known as Madhya Pradesh

Vikas Pradhikarano Ki Sampatiyon Ka Prabandhan Tatha Vyayan

Niyam, 2018. The Rules framed by the State Government for

allotment of plot provides a procedure for allotment. Rule 5, 6 and 7

of the aforesaid Rule reads as under:- Provided that the State Government may, by order,
 prescribe any other mode along with the manner, if
 required, for disposing any property in a particular case
 or category of cases. (2) The Authority may execute projects on Build Operate
 Transfer (BOT), Build Own Operate Transfer (BOOT),
 Build Lease Transfer (BLT), Build Transfer Lease (BTL)
 and such other modes as considered necessary involving
 the Authority property with prior permission of the
 Government; Provided that in all such projects the private
 partner shall be selected through a transparent process. 6. Disposal of properties by inviting bids.-
 The following procedure shall be adopted where the property
 has to be disposed through the process of inviting bids in sealed
 cover/online- (i) The details of the property proposed to be disposed shall
 be prepared in Form-A. The CEO shall ensure that the
 information so prepared is correct and in order; (ii) The information so prepared in Form-A shall be placed
 before the Board and sanction be obtained to dispose the
 property; (iii) The notice inviting bids shall be published in Form-B in
 two newspapers having wide circulation in the area in
 which the property is located. The same shall be hosted
 on the website of the Authority. A copy of such web page
 duly certified by the CEO shall be kept in the record as a Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 32 - proof of having hosted the notice on the website; (iv) The conditions of the bid which shall ordinarily be
 mentioned in the bid document shall be such as
 mentioned in Form-C; (v) The offers received through the bids shall be opened in
 the manner prescribed in the relevant bid document and
 the rates received shall be presented to the Competent
 Authority, if it is satisfied that there was sufficient
 competition or sufficient efforts were made to obtain the
 best bid, may approve the highest bid if it exceeds the
 reserve price; even if single bid is received. (vi) In case the bids so received are less than the reserved
 price or in case no bid is received, fresh bids may be
 invited for the second and if necessary for the third time; (vii) If after the third time the bid continues to be less than the
 reserve price or no bid is received, the CEO shall prepare
 a report in Form-D and submit it to the Board of the
 Authority. The Board of the Authority may reduce the
 reserve price upto seventy five percent of the reserve
 price fixed in the first three rounds and invite fresh bids.
 The CEO shall ensure that a period of at least three
 months has elapsed between the first invitation of bids
 and the invitation at reduced reserve price; If the price of the bids received is found to be less
 than the revised price or in case no bid is received, then
 in such condition new bids can be called for the second
 and if require for the third time as well. If the bids called
 for the third time are also found to be less than the
 revised price or no bid is received then the CEO will
 upload the information of all such properties on the
 website of the related Authority and the disposal of all
 such properties shall be done as per the revised price
 during the same financial year, on the basis of the offers
 received till first Monday of every month of that financial
 year. Provided that the State Government may in special
 circumstances if so proposed by the Authority, reduce the
 reserve price to such extent as deemed necessary and
 may also relax both conditions regarding minimum
 number of attempts and the expiry of a period of three
 months before such reduction in reserve price is made; (viii) The reserve price of the property under this rule shall be
 calculated as under:- land/plot in sq. mt.] X [the rate of developed plot Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 33 - (Rs. per sq. mt.) on the date of notification of
 invitations for proposals according to price guide
 principle (Collector Guideline) in the same
 residential area]
 Under these rules, for the purpose of
 calculating, if it is found that the property which is
 to be disposed is situated in the area for which the
 Collector Guidelines Rate have not been issued,
 then in such situation, the rate (in sq. mt.) of
 developed plot according to the price guiding
 principle (Collector Guideline) of the nearest
 residential developed area (whose FAR should not
 be less than 1), will be valid. (ii) Reserved value of commercial plot = [area of
 land/plot in sq. mt.] X [the rate of developed plot
 (Rs. per sq. mt.) on the date of notification of
 invitations for proposals according to price guide
 principle (Collector Guideline) in the same
 commercial area]. Under these rules, for the purpose of
 calculation, if it is found that the property which is
 to be disposed is situated in the area for which the
 Collector Guidelines Rate have not bee issued,
 then in such situation, for calculation of Reserve
 value, the reserve value calculated in clause
 section (i) will be multiplied by factor 1.5. (iii) Where the property is being disposed for public or
 semi-public purpose, for calculation of Reserve
 value, the reserve value calculated in clause (i) will
 be multiplied by factor 0.6. The reserve value of the plots specified under
 Madhya Pradesh I.T., I.T.E.S. And E.S.D.M.
 Investment Promotion Policy-2016 under public
 and semi public use, shall also be calculated as
 above. (iv) Where the purpose is mixed type, for calculation of
 Reserve value, the reserve value calculated in
 clause (i) will be multiplied by factor. 1.20. But the State Government, may modify the
 reserve price, as it thinks fit, in special case or in
 category of special cases on the proposal by the
 Authority in a particular category. Tip: The work Mixed purpose shall mean such
 purpose as would be a combination of two or more
 of the following (1) residential (2) commercial (3)
 any other; - 34 - (b) In case of building
 In the case of standalone building, reserve value will be
 calculated according to standard PWD norms, cost o the
 building as calculated in sub clause (a) hereinabove and
 the value of the cost of the building, appurtenant land or
 proportionate and/plot will be added in case of an
 apartment. (ix) The property to be disposed under this rule may be
 transferred in bhumiswami rights or on lease as may be
 determined by the Authority at the time of inviting the
 bids. The lease shall be eligible for conversion into
 freehold if the property was held by the Authority under
 bhumiswami right. The property allotted under this rule or the prior
 rules on lease shall be converted to freehold on payment
 of the following fees :- The conversion deed shall be executed only after
 receiving the above fees. The Chief Executive officer shall convert into
 freehold after obtaining NOC from Nazul Officer if the
 Authority has allotted the land received by Government/
 Nazul land on lease to the allottee. The CEO of the Authorities will be the competent
 authority for this purpose. In the schemes of the Authority, where the land use
 of the earlier leased property has been changed due to
 revision in the development plans, in such a situation, the
 land use will be valid according to the development plan
 from the date of the application of conversion of lease
 holder rights to free hold rights. But if on the date of
 application the land use is revised according to the
 revised development plan and if the land use of the land
 applied for upgrade has been upgraded then to save the
 Authority from facing any revenue loss, the conversion
 charge/fee will be charged as per advanced land use. 7. Disposal of properties on concessional rates for
 specific purposes by inviting bids.- (1) The Authority may allot on lease any property on Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 35 - concessional rates to organizations registered under
 applicable law for: Note: For the removal of doubt it is clarified that no
 individual shall be eligible for allotment of any property
 under the rule. (2) The following procedure shall be adopted where the
 property has to be disposed of on concessional rates
 through the process of inviting bids in sealed
 cover/online:- calling a report from the District office,
 Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh. OR
 The actual cost of acquisition and
 development of the land for disposal/Plot,
 whichever is higher, but the State
 Government will be able to modify the
 reserve price, as it thinks fit, in special case
 or in category of special cases on the
 proposed by this Authority in a particular
 category. (b) In case of building
 The cost of the building calculated
 according to standard PWD norm plus the
 cost, as calculated in sub-clause (a)
 hereinabove, of the appurtenant land in
 case of standalone building or the
 proportional land in case of apartment; (iii) Notice inviting bids shall be issued in Form-F. The
 notice shall be published in two newspapers
 having wide circulation in the area in which the
 property is located. The same shall be hosted on
 the website of the Authority. A cop of such web
 page duly certified by the CEO shall be kept in the
 record as a proof of the notice having been hosted
 on the website. The conditions of the notice
 inviting bids shall ordinarily be such as mentioned
 in Form-G; (iv) Such organizations as are registered under the
 relevant statute and have been in active operation
 for three years immediately preceding the date of
 application for such lease shall be eligible for the
 participating in the bid. Where a doubt arises
 whether the organisation is in active operation for
 three years, the audited accounts shall be
 scrutinized to determine the question. The CEO
 shall pass a speaking order to settle the doubt and
 thereafter his decision shall be final; (v) The offers received through the bids shall be
 opened in the manner prescribed in the relevant
 bid document and the rates received shall be
 presented to the Competent Authority as
 mentioned in rule 28 for decision. The Competent
 Authority, if it is satisfied that there was sufficient
 competition or sufficient efforts were made to
 obtain the best bid, may approve the highest bid if Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 37 - it exceeds the reserved price, even if single bid is
 received. (vi) In case the bid received is less than the reserve
 price or no bid is received the bids may be invited
 for the second and if necessary third time; (vii) If after the third time such bid continues to be less
 than the reserve price or no bid is received, the
 CEO shall prepare a report in Form-H and submit
 it to the Chairman. The Chairman may reduce the
 reserve price upto 75 percent of the reserve price
 fixed earlier and invite fresh bids. The CEO shall
 ensure that a period of at least three months has
 elapsed between the first invitation of bids and the
 invitation at reduced reserve price; If the price of the bids received is found to
 be less than the revised price or in case no bid is
 received, then in such condition new bids can be
 called for the second and if require for the third
 time as well. If the bids called for the third time are
 also found to be less than the revised price or no
 bid is received then the CEO will upload the
 information of all such properties on the website of
 the related Development Authority and the
 disposal of all such properties shall be done as per
 the revised price on the first come first serve basis. Provided that the State Government may in
 special circumstances, if so proposed by the
 Authority, reduce the reserve price to such extent
 as deemed necessary and also relax both
 conditions regarding minimum number of attempts
 and the elapse of a period of three months before
 such reduction in reserve price is made; (viii) The property under this rule shall be leased to the
 successful bidder and such property held in lease
 shall not be eligible for conversion into free hold; (ix) Bid which is accepted by the Development
 Authority, if the bidder wants to withdraw the bid or
 he is unable to deposit the amount mentioned by
 him in his bid document within the prescribed
 period as per the terms and conditions of the bid
 or the information/facts/data/documents provided
 by the bidder in his bid with respect of his eligibility
 is found to be false, the Development Authority will
 be free to cancel such bid and to forfeit the earnest
 bid money as deposited by the bidder. (x) Every lease of property on concessional terms Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 38 - shall be granted subject to the conditions that if the
 property leased is not utilized within a period of 3
 years for the purpose for which it was given, the
 Authority may cancel the lease, forfeit the amounts
 deposited and resume possession thereof. Where
 the property is land/plot, the utilization of property
 shall mean that the lease holder constructs at least
 10% of the permissible built up area on the leased
 land/plot; (xi) The property allotted on concessional rates shall
 not be put to any use other than the purpose for
 which it was allotted. Such property shall not be
 transferred by the lessee to any other entity
 without obtaining approval from the State
 Government." In light of the aforesaid, the Indore Development

Authority shall certainly be free to allot the land to the respondent

or to any other person, however, as per the rates applicable at the

time the NIT is issued or at the time the process of allotment is

undertaken, shall be applicable in respect of the plot in question. The Indore Development Authority is also required to follow the

prescribed procedure as laid down under the Rules of 2018. 33- When the matter was being argued, specific queries

were raised by this Court to the learned counsel appearing for

Indore Development Authority Shri Ravindra Singh Chhabra,

learned Additional Advocate General and he was directed to verify

from the record and to inform this Court the answers to the queries

raised by this Court. The queries raised by this Court and the

answers given are as under:- Thus, in light of the aforesaid, it is evident that after

termination of allotment to other newspapers, no fresh allotment

has been done till date nor any regularization has taken place. No

lease deed has been executed in respect of any newspaper, whose

allotment was terminated in light of order dated 09/12/2005 passed

by this Court in Writ Petition No.3518/1992 ( Vijay Kumar Tiwari Vs.

State of M. P. and Others ). 34- The respondent before this Court has not be able to

point out from any document to establish that any regularization

has taken place in respect of other newspapers nor has been able

to point out nor able to bring on record any lease deed, which has

been executed in favour of any newspaper, whose allotment was Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 40 - terminated in light of order dated 09/12/2005 passed by this Court

in Writ Petition No.3518/1992 ( Vijay Kumar Tiwari Vs. State of M. P.

and Others ). 35- In the present case, the land in question belongs to

Indore Development Authority and as argued by learned Advocate

General Shri Purushaindra Kaurav the value of the land is

approximately Rs.200 Crores and no auction of any kind has taken

place in the matter and the petitioner wants the land to be allotted

to him and a lease deed to be executed for peanuts. 36- The State Government has framed Rules for allotment

of land and now there is a prescribed procedure for allotting the

land belonging to public body like Indore Development Authority. It

is not a case where the land is being allotted to the respondent and

the decision has been taken for social good, public good or

common good like allotment of affordable houses to members of

Scheduled Caste and Schedule Tribe or implementation of housing

scheme for Below Poverty Line families. 37- In the considered opinion of this Court, if allotment of

land and execution of sale deed in favour of respondent is not for

social good, public good or common good, it cannot be dissipated

in favour of private entrepreneur virtually free of cost or for

consideration not commensurate with its worth without attracting Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 41 - Article 14 and 39(b) of the Constitution of India. 38- The aforesaid view has been taken by the apex Court

in the case of Goa Foundation Vs. Sesa Sterlite Limited and

Others reported in (2018) 4 SCC 218. The apex Court in the

aforesaid case was dealing with renewal of mining leases and

keeping in view the judgment delivered in the case of Goa

Foundation : (2014) 6 SCC 590, the apex Court has held that

State of Goa should grant fresh mining leases instead of granting a

second renewal. The second renewal was held to be illegal and

was set aside. The apex Court in the aforesaid case in paragraphs

No.61 to 80.5 has held as under:- Special Reference No.1 of 2012. (2012) 10 SCC 1. 64. What was the Advisory Opinion given by this Court in
Natural Resources Allocation? Among the questions referred for
opinion were the following: (SCC p. 41, para 1) Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 43 - Question 1. Whether the only permissible method
 for disposal of all natural resources across all sectors
 and in all circumstances is by the conduct of auctions? Question 2. Whether a broad proposition of law
 that only the route of auctions can be resorted to for
 disposal of natural resources does not run contrary to
 several judgments of the Supreme Court including those
 of the larger Benches? 65. In the Reference, it was submitted before the
Constitution Bench that paragraphs 94 to 96 in CPIL laid down
the ratio vis-à-vis disposal of natural resources. It was argued
that "these paragraphs lay down, as a proposition of law, that all
natural resources across all sectors, and in all circumstances
are to be disposed of by way of public auction, and on the other
[hand], it was urged that the observations therein were made
only qua spectrum." 66. The submissions made by learned counsel were then
discussed and thereafter this Court recorded its conclusions
between paragraphs 82 and 84 of Natural Resources Allocation.
In paragraph 84, it was held: (2012) 10 SCC 1
 "84. Thus, having come to the conclusion that
 2G case [Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union
 of India , (2012) 3 SCC 1] does not deal with modes
 of allocation for natural resources, other than
 spectrum, we shall now proceed to answer the first
 question of the Reference pertaining to other natural
 resources, as the question subsumes the essence of
 the entire reference, particularly the set of first five
 questions." [Emphasis supplied]. 67. Thereafter, while answering the first question in the
Reference, the Court considered the issue from various
perspectives. It first dealt with the issue in the context of Article
14 and Article 14 39(b) of the Constitution and concluded in
paragraph 120 of the Report that the disposal of natural
resources for revenue maximization through auctions is not a
constitutional mandate. It was held: (Natural Resources
Allocation Case, (2012) 10 SCC 1, SCC p.88)
 "120. Therefore, in conclusion, the submission
 that the mandate of Article 14 is that any disposal of a
 natural resource for commercial use must be for
 revenue maximisation, and thus by auction, is based
 neither on law nor on logic. There is no constitutional
 imperative in the matter of economic policies-- Article
 14 does not predefine any economic policy as a
 constitutional mandate. Even the mandate of Article
 39(b) imposes no restrictions on the means adopted Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 44 - to subserve the public good and uses the broad term
 "distribution", suggesting that the methodology of
 distribution is not fixed. Economic logic establishes
 that alienation/allocation of natural resources to the
 highest bidder may not necessarily be the only way to
 subserve the common good, and at times, may run
 counter to public good. Hence, it needs little
 emphasis that disposal of all natural resources
 through auctions is clearly not a constitutional
 mandate." [Emphasis supplied]. 68. The issue was then considered from the standpoint of
legitimate deviations from an auction. After adverting to several
decisions of this Court Centre for Public Interest Litigation v.
Union of India (CPIL case or 2G scam case) where auctions
were not the favoured method of allocation of natural resources,
it was held between paragraphs 129 and 131 of the Report as
follows: (Natural Resources Allocation Case, (2012) 10 SCC 1,
SCC p.92)
 "129. Hence, it is manifest that there is no
 constitutional mandate in favour of auction under Article 14. The Government has repeatedly deviated from the
 course of auction and this Court has repeatedly upheld
 such actions. The judiciary tests such deviations on the
 limited scope of arbitrariness and fairness under Article
 14 and its role is limited to that extent. Essentially,
 whenever the object of policy is anything but revenue
 maximisation, the executive is seen to adopt methods
 other than auction. 130. A fortiori, besides legal logic, mandatory
 auction may be contrary to economic logic as well.
 Different resources may require different treatment. Very
 often, exploration and exploitation contracts are bundled
 together due to the requirement of heavy capital in the
 discovery of natural resources. A concern would risk
 undertaking such exploration and incur heavy costs only
 if it was assured utilisation of the resource discovered: a
 prudent business venture would not like to incur the high
 costs involved in exploration activities and then compete
 for that resource in an open auction. The logic is similar
 to that applied in patents. Firms are given incentives to
 invest in research and development with the promise of
 exclusive access to the market for the sale of that
 invention. Such an approach is economically and legally
 sound and sometimes necessary to spur research and
 development. Similarly, bundling exploration and
 exploitation contracts may be necessary to spur growth in
 a specific industry. - 45 - 131. Similar deviation from auction cannot be ruled
 out when the object of a State policy is to promote
 domestic development of an industry, like in Kasturi Lal
 case, (2012) 10 SCC 1, discussed above. However,
 these examples are purely illustrative in order to
 demonstrate that auction cannot be the sole criterion for
 alienation of all natural resources." [Emphasis supplied] 69. Finally, the issue was considered from the point of
view of the potential of abuse in allocation of natural resources
other than through auction and in this context it was held in
paragraph 135 of the Report: (Natural Resources Allocation
Case, (2012) 10 SCC 1, SCC pp.93-94)
 "135. Therefore, a potential for abuse cannot
 be the basis for striking down a method as ultra vires
 the Constitution. It is the actual abuse itself that must
 be brought before the court for being tested on the
 anvil of constitutional provisions. In fact, it may be
 said that even auction has a potential of abuse, like
 any other method of allocation, but that cannot be the
 basis of declaring it as an unconstitutional
 methodology either. These drawbacks include
 cartelisation, the "winner's curse" (the phenomenon
 by which a bidder bids a higher, unrealistic and
 unexecutable price just to surpass the competition; or
 where a bidder, in case of multiple auctions, bids for
 all the resources and ends up winning licences for
 exploitation of more resources than he can
 pragmatically execute), etc. However, all the same,
 auction cannot be called ultra vires for the said
 reasons and continues to be an attractive and
 preferred means of disposal of natural resources
 especially when revenue maximisation is a priority.
 Therefore, neither auction, nor any other method of
 disposal can be held ultra vires the Constitution,
 merely because of a potential abuse." [Emphasis supplied]. 70. The conclusion arrived at by the Constitution Bench
was then recorded between paragraphs 148 and 150 of the
Report in the following words: (Natural Resources Allocation
Case, (2012) 10 SCC 1, SCC pp.98-99)
 "148. In our opinion, auction despite being a
 more preferable method of alienation/allotment of
 natural resources, cannot be held to be a
 constitutional requirement or limitation for alienation
 of all natural resources and therefore, every method
 other than auction cannot be struck down as ultra
 vires the constitutional mandate. - 46 - 149. Regard being had to the aforesaid
 precepts, we have opined that auction as a mode
 cannot be conferred the status of a constitutional
 principle. Alienation of natural resources is a policy
 decision, and the means adopted for the same are
 thus, executive prerogatives. However, when such a
 policy decision is not backed by a social or welfare
 purpose, and precious and scarce natural resources
 are alienated for commercial pursuits of profit
 maximising private entrepreneurs, adoption of means
 other than those that are competitive and maximise
 revenue may be arbitrary and face the wrath of Article 14 of the Constitution. Hence, rather than
 prescribing or proscribing a method, we believe, a
 judicial scrutiny of methods of disposal of natural
 resources should depend on the facts and
 circumstances of each case, in consonance with the
 principles which we have culled out above. Failing
 which, the Court, in exercise of power of judicial
 review, shall term the executive action as arbitrary,
 unfair, unreasonable and capricious due to its
 antimony with Article 14 of the Constitution. 150. In conclusion, our answer to the first set
 of five questions is that auctions are not the only
 permissible method for disposal of all natural
 resources across all sectors and in all
 circumstances." [Emphasis supplied] 71. It is therefore more than explicit that there is no
constitutional requirement (let alone a mandate) for allocation of
natural resources through the auction method (other than
spectrum) but at the same time the auction process should not
be given a go-bye without any justification - the decision to give
a go-bye is judicially reviewable though the scope of judicial
review might be rather restricted. The melting pot of allocation of
a natural resource, a social or welfare purpose and adherence
to the requirements of Articles 14 and 39(b) of the Constitution
in matters of policy was a great leap forward fashioned by the
Constitution Bench. Consequently, while there is no mandate,
constitutional or otherwise, that natural resource allocation must
be only by auction, it is certainly "a more preferable method".
There are exceptions, such as when the natural resource
allocation is for a "social or welfare purpose". On the other hand
if the natural resource allocation is "for commercial pursuits of
profit maximising private entrepreneurs" de hors any social or
welfare purpose, then judicial review would be permissible and Article 14 of the Constitution would be attracted and if the
executive action is found to be arbitrary, it would be struck
down. Therefore, when it comes to natural resource allocation, Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 47 - the executive has a somewhat limited elbow room. 72. In his concurring opinion, Justice Khehar took the
view (in paragraph 186 of the Report) that: (Natural Resources
Allocation Case, (2012) 10 SCC 1, SCC p.137)
 "186. ...when natural resources are made available
 by the State to private persons for commercial
 exploitation exclusively for their individual gains, the
 State's endeavour must be towards maximisation of
 revenue returns." [Emphasis supplied]
The learned judge concluded his opinion by agreeing that an
auction is one of the price recovery mechanisms, but not the
only one for allocation of natural resources. "That should not be
understood to mean that it can never be a valid method for
disposal of natural resources." It was further held that natural
resources cannot be alienated by way of largesse - there must
be a reciprocal consideration either in the form of earning
revenue or sub-serving the common good or both. The learned
judge had this to say: (Natural Resources Allocation Case,
(2012) 10 SCC 1, SCC pp.143-44)
 "199. The policy of allocation of natural resources
 for public good can be defined by the legislature, as has
 been discussed in the foregoing paragraphs. Likewise,
 policy for allocation of natural resources may also be
 determined by the executive. The parameters for
 determining the legality and constitutionality of the two
 are exactly the same. In the aforesaid view of the matter,
 there can be no doubt about the conclusion recorded in
 the main opinion that auction which is just one of the
 several price recovery mechanisms, cannot be held to be
 the only constitutionally recognised method for alienation
 of natural resources. That should not be understood to
 mean that it can never be a valid method for disposal of
 natural resources (refer to paras 186 to 188 of my instant
 opinion). 200. I would, therefore, conclude by stating that no
 part of the natural resource can be dissipated as a matter
 of largesse, charity, donation or endowment, for private
 exploitation. Each bit of natural resource expended must
 bring back a reciprocal consideration. The consideration
 may be in the nature of earning revenue or may be to
 "best subserve the common good". It may well be the
 amalgam of the two. There cannot be a dissipation of
 material resources free of cost or at a consideration
 lower than their actual worth. One set of citizens cannot
 prosper at the cost of another set of citizens, for that
 would not be fair or reasonable." [Emphasis supplied] Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 48 - 73. This issue was considered in Goa Foundation as well.
The Court adverted to Natural Resources Allocation in
paragraph 81 of the Report and pithily expressed its view that
the manner of granting a mining lease is a policy decision of the
State Government, but the decision can be examined by way of
judicial review. It was held: ( Goa Foundation Case, (2014) 6
SCC 590, SCC p. 634)
 "81. We are of the considered opinion that it is
 for the State Government to decide as a matter of
 policy in what manner the leases of these mineral
 resources would be granted, but this decision has to
 be taken in accordance with the provisions of the MMDR Act and the Rules made thereunder and in
 consonance with the constitutional provisions and the
 decision taken by the State of Goa to grant a mining
 lease in a particular manner or to a particular party
 can be examined by way of judicial review by the
 Court." [Emphasis supplied]
It was then declared in paragraph 87.5 of the Report that: (SCC
p.637)
 "87.5. It is for the State Government to decide
 as a matter of policy in what manner mining leases
 are to be granted in future but the constitutionality or
 legality of the decision of the State Government can
 be examined by the Court in exercise of its power of
 judicial review." [Emphasis supplied] 74. Similarly, in Manohar Lal Sharma (2014) 9 SCC 516,
this Court adverted to the issue and noted the following in
paragraph 98 of the Report: (SCC p. 563)
 "98. The Constitution Bench [Natural Resources
 Allocation] clarified that the statement of law in 2G
 case [CPIL] that while transferring or alienating the
 natural resources, the State is duty-bound to adopt
 the method of auction was confined to the specific
 case of spectrum and not for dispensation of all
 natural resources. The Constitution Bench said that
 findings of this Court in 2G case were limited to the
 case of spectrum and not beyond that and that it did
 not deal with the modes of allocation for natural
 resources other than spectrum." 75. The Court in Manohar Lal Sharma [(2014) 9 SCC
516] also referred to the views expressed by Justice Khehar and
held, in paragraph 104 of the Report: 76. This Court then exercised its power of judicial review
and considered the merits of the explanation given by the
Central Government for not adopting the competitive bidding
route for the allocation of coal blocks. The various submissions
made, the various hurdles faced (including objections of the
State Governments) as well as the impracticality of opening up
the allocation of coal blocks to competitive bidding were
considered and then it was held (after opening the window of Article 14 of the Constitution) in paragraph 110 of the Report: vis other methods of distribution/disposal of natural
 resources. However, if the allocation of subject coal
 blocks is inconsistent with Article 14 of the
 Constitution and the procedure that has been
 followed in such allocation is found to be unfair,
 unreasonable, discriminatory, non-transparent,
 capricious or suffers from favouritism or nepotism
 and violative of the mandate of Article 14 of the Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 50 - Constitution, the consequences of such
 unconstitutional or illegal allocation must follow." [Emphasis supplied] 77. More recently in M/s. Ajar Enterprises Private Limited
v. Satyanarayan Somani22 this Court once again examined the
issue of distribution of natural resources and held: (SCC p.785,
para 49)
 "49. Undoubtedly, disposal of natural
 resources by auction is not a mandatory principle for,
 as the Constitution Bench held,23 individual statutes
 may provide for modalities of transfer by alternate
 modes which subserve public interest. ..... The
 choice of methods is not left to the unbridled
 discretion of a public authority. Where a public
 authority exercises an executive prerogative, it must
 nonetheless act in a manner which would subserve
 public interest and facilitate the distribution of scarce
 natural resources in a manner that would achieve
 public good. Where a public authority implements a
 policy, which is backed by a constitutionally
 recognised social purpose intended to achieve the
 welfare of the community, the considerations which
 would govern would be different from those when it
 alienates natural resources for commercial
 exploitation. When a public body is actuated by a
 constitutional purpose embodied in the Directive
 Principles, the considerations which weigh with it in
 determining the mode of alienation should be such as
 would achieve the underlying object. In certain
 cases, the dominant consideration is not to maximize
 revenues but to achieve social good such as when
 the alienation is to provide affordable housing to
 members of the Scheduled Castes or Tribes or to
 implement housing schemes for Below the Poverty
 Line (BPL) families. In other cases where natural
 resources are alienated for commercial exploitation,
 a public authority cannot 2017 (10) SCALE 346
 Natural Resource Allocation allow them to be
 dissipated at its unbridled discretion at the cost of
 public interest." [Emphasis supplied ] 78. Till fairly recently, policy matters particularly of
economic policy were hands-off as far as the courts were
concerned.24 But the recent decisions of this Court, including by
the Constitution Bench in its advisory jurisdiction, have partially
modified this theory and kept open the window to judicially
review such a policy if it does not serve the common good as
understood in Article 39(b) of the Constitution, if it violates Article
14 of the Constitution and alienates natural resources for Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 51 - maximizing profits of private entrepreneurs while sidelining Article 39(b) of the Constitution. "The legislature and the
executive are answerable to the Constitution and it is there
where the judiciary, the guardian of the Constitution, must find
the contours to the powers of disposal of natural resources,
especially Article 14 and Article 39(b) of the Constitution,
Natural Resources Allocation, In re, Special Reference No.1 of
2012, (2012) 10 SCC 1, para 95]." 79. Notwithstanding this, a Court must exercise restraint
and not set aside Government policy only because it disagrees
with it or because a better policy could be framed or simply
because it has the power to set aside the policy. Policies framed
by the State, after due consideration, must be BALCO
Employees' Union (Regd) v. Union of India , (2002) 2 SCC 333
at paragraphs 46 and 47 Paragraph 95 of the Natural Resource
Allocation decision respected and given enough elbow room
and flexibility for implementation. Of course, there would be
occasions when the implementation of a policy has teething
problems or some lacuna is discovered at a slightly later stage,
but that does not mean that policy itself is defective. Therefore,
Courts must be very cautious and circumspect in diluting or
setting aside a policy and must do so only if it is constitutionally
unavoidable, otherwise good governance could be a casualty. 80. The conclusions that could be drawn from all these
decisions are: - 52 - Keeping in view the law laid down by the apex Court in

the aforesaid case, in the considered opinion of this Court a plot

worth Rs.200 Crores cannot be allotted to respondent as directed

by the learned Single Judge and no mandamus can be issued as

done by the learned Single Judge for execution of lease deed in

favour of the petitioner therein that too after receiving few lakhs

from the respondent therein. 39- The apex Court in the case of Bharti Airtel Limited Vs.

Union of India reported in (2015) 12 SCC 1 has relied upon the

law laid down by the apex Court in the case of Natural Resources

Allocation, In re, Special Reference No.1 of 2012 reported in

2012 (10) SCC 1. It was an appeal by Bharti Airtel Limited under Section 18 of the Telephone Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI)

Act, 1997. Paragraphs No.75 and 76 of the aforesaid judgment

reads as under:- (emphasis supplied) 76. In para 82, of Natural Resources Allocation, In
reference No.1 of 2012, (2012) 10 SCC 1, this Court was
categoric that the findings of 2G case were limited to the case of
spectrum. Similarly, in para 146, this Court observed that this
Court "respects the mandate and wisdom of the executive" in the
matter of choosing the most suitable method of distribution of
natural resources. This Court noted that this is clearly a matter of
an economic policy entailing an intricate economic choice and
the Court lacks necessary expertise to make such choice. In the
light of the observation in para 82 that at least in the matter of
disposal of spectrum, auction is the only "permissible and intra
vires method for disposal". Therefore, the submission of the Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 54 - licensees is required to be rejected." 40- In the case of Manohar Lal Sharma Vs. Principal

Secretary and Others reported in (2014) 9 SCC 516, the apex

Court in paragraphs No.98 to 104 and 110 has held as under:- Different resources may require different treatment.
 Very often, exploration and exploitation contracts are
 bundled together due to the requirement of heavy
 capital in the discovery of natural resources. A
 concern would risk undertaking such exploration and
 incur heavy costs only if it was assured utilization of
 the resource discovered; a prudent business venture,
 would not like to incur the high costs involved in
 exploration activities and then compete for that
 resource in an open auction. The logic is similar to
 that applied in patents. Firms are given incentives to
 invest in research and development with the promise
 of exclusive access to the market for the sale of that
 invention. Such an approach is economically and
 legally sound and sometimes necessary to spur
 research and development. Similarly, bundling
 exploration and exploitation contracts may be
 necessary to spur growth in a specific industry. 131. Similar deviation from auction cannot be
 ruled out when the object of a State policy is to
 promote domestic development of an industry, like in
 Kasturi Lal's case, discussed above. However, these
 examples are purely illustrative in order to
 demonstrate that auction cannot be the sole criteria
 for alienation of all natural resources." 100. While dealing with the argument that even if the
method of auction was not a mandate under Article 14 , it must
be the only permissible method due to the susceptibility of other
methods to abuse, the Court under the head "Potential of
abuse" held that a potential for abuse cannot be the basis for
striking down the method as ultra vires the Constitution. The
Court noted two decisions of this Court in R.K. Garg v. Union of
India , ( 1981) 4 SCC 675 and D.K. Trivedi & Sons v. State of
Gujarat , 1986 Supp SCC 20 and held that neither auction nor
any other method of disposal can be held ultra vires the
Constitution merely because of a potential abuse. The
Constitution Bench stated as under: (Natural Resources
Allocation, In re, Special Reference No.1 of 2012, (2012) 10
SCC 1), SCC pp.93-94 para 135)
 "135. Therefore, a potential for abuse cannot
 be the basis for striking down a method as ultra vires
 the Constitution. It is the actual abuse itself that must
 be brought before the Court for being tested on the
 anvil of constitutional provisions. In fact, it may be
 said that even auction has a potential of abuse, like Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 56 - any other method of allocation, but that cannot be the
 basis of declaring it as an unconstitutional
 methodology either. These drawbacks include
 cartelization, "winners curse" (the phenomenon by
 which a bidder bids a higher, unrealistic and
 unexecutable price just to surpass the competition; or
 where a bidder, in case of multiple auctions, bids for
 all the resources and ends up winning licenses for
 exploitation of more resources than he can
 pragmatically execute), etc. However, all the same,
 auction cannot be called ultra vires for the said
 reasons and continues to be an attractive and
 preferred means of disposal of natural resources
 especially when revenue maximization is a priority.
 Therefore, neither auction, nor any other method of
 disposal can be held ultra vires the Constitution,
 merely because of a potential abuse." 101. In Natural Resources Allocation Reference the
Constitution Bench, in the main judgment, thus, concluded that
auction despite being a more preferable method of alienation /
allotment of natural resources cannot be held to be
constitutional requirement or limitation for alienation of all
natural resources and, therefore, every method other than
auction cannot be struck down as ultra vires the constitutional
mandate. The Court also opined that auction as a mode cannot
be conferred the status of a constitutional principle. While
holding so, the Court held that alienation of natural resources is
a policy decision and the means adopted for the same are, thus,
executive prerogatives. The Court summarized the legal position
as under: 102. J.S. Khehar, J., while concurring with the main
opinion has stated that auction is certainly not a constitutional
mandate in the manner expressed, but it can be applied in some
situations to maximise revenue returns, to satisfy legal and
constitutional requirements. In his view, if the State arrives at a
conclusion, in a given situation, that maximum revenue would
be earned by auction of the particular natural resource, then that
alone would be the process which it would have to adopt. In the
penultimate para of his opinion, J.S. Khehar, J., observed: 103. In Natural Resources Allocation Reference, the
Constitution Bench said that reading auction as a constitutional
mandate would be impermissible because such an approach
may distort another constitutional principle embodied in Article
39(b). In the main judgment, with reference to Article 39(b) , the
Court stated as follows: (SCC pp.85-88, paras 113, 115-16 &
119-20)
 "113...The disposal of natural resources is a
 facet of the use and distribution of such resources. Article 39(b) mandates that the ownership and control
 of natural resources should be so distributed so as to
 best subserve the common good. Article 37 provides
 that the provisions of Part IV shall not be enforceable
 by [pic]any court, but the principles laid down therein
 are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of
 the country and it shall be the duty of the State to
 apply these principles in making laws. Therefore, this
 Article, in a sense, is a restriction on "distribution"
 built into the Constitution. But the restriction is
 imposed on the object and not the means. The
 overarching and underlying principle governing
 "distribution" is furtherance of common good. But for
 the achievement of that objective, the Constitution
 uses the generic word "distribution". Distribution has
 broad contours and cannot be limited to meaning
 only one method i.e. auction. It envisages all such
 methods available for distribution/allocation of natural Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 59 - resources which ultimately subserve the "common
good". *** *** *** 115. It can thus, be seen from the aforequoted
paragraphs that the term "distribute" undoubtedly,
has wide amplitude and encompasses all manners
and methods of distribution, which would include
classes, industries, regions, private and public
sections, etc. Having regard to the basic nature of Article 39(b) , a narrower concept of equality under Article 14 than that discussed above, may frustrate
the broader concept of distribution, as conceived in Article 39(b). There cannot, therefore, be a cavil that
"common good" and "larger public interests" have to
be regarded as constitutional reality deserving
actualisation. 116. The learned counsel for CPIL argued that
revenue maximisation during the sale or alienation of
a natural resource for commercial exploitation is the
only way of achieving public good since the revenue
collected can be channelised to welfare policies and
controlling the burgeoning deficit. According to the
learned counsel, since the best way to maximise
revenue is through the route of auction, it becomes a
constitutional principle even under Article 39(b). However, we are not persuaded to hold so. Auctions
may be [pic]the best way of maximising revenue but
revenue maximisation may not always be the best
way to subserve public good. "Common good" is the
sole guiding factor under Article 39(b) for distribution
of natural resources. It is the touchstone of testing
whether any policy subserves the "common good" 104. In light of the above legal position, the argument that
auction is a best way to select private parties as per Article 39(b) does not merit acceptance. The emphasis on the word "best" in Article 39(b) by the learned senior counsel for the intervener
does not deserve further discussion in light of the legal position
exposited by the Constitution Bench in Natural Resources
Allocation Reference with reference to Article 39(b). We are
fortified in our view by a recent decision of this Court (three
Judge Bench) in Goa Foundation v. Union of India (2014) 6
SCC 590, wherein following Natural Resources Allocation
Reference, it was stated: ( Goa Foundation Case, SCC p.634,
para 81)
 "81. ...it is for the State Government to decide
 as a matter of policy in what manner the leases of
 these mineral resources would be granted, but this
 decision has to be taken in accordance with the
 provisions of the MMDR Act and the Rules made
 thereunder and in consonance with the constitutional
 provisions...". 110. The above facts show that it took almost 8 years in
putting in place allocation of captive coal blocks through
competitive bidding. During this period, many coal blocks were Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 61 - allocated giving rise to present controversy, which was
 avoidable because competitive bidding would have brought in
 transparency, objectivity and very importantly given a level
 playing field to all applicants of coal and lowered the difference
 between the market price of coal and the cost of coal for the
 allottee by way of premium which would have accrued to the
 Government. Be that as it may, once it is laid down by the
 Constitution Bench of this Court in Natural Resources Allocation
 Reference20 that the Court cannot conduct a comparative study
 of various methods of distribution of natural resources and
 cannot mandate one method to be followed in all facts and
 circumstances, then if the grave situation of shortage of power
 prevailing at that time necessitated private participation and the
 Government felt that it would have been impractical and
 unrealistic to allocate coal blocks through auction and later on in
 2004 or so there was serious opposition by many State
 Governments to bidding system, and the Government did not
 pursue competitive bidding/public auction route, then in our
 view, the administrative decision of the Government not to
 pursue competitive bidding cannot be said to be so arbitrary or
 unreasonable warranting judicial interference. It is not the
 domain of the Court to evaluate the advantages of competitive
 bidding vis-à-vis other methods of distribution / disposal of
 natural resources. However, if the allocation of subject coal
 blocks is inconsistent with Article 14 of the Constitution and the
 procedure that has been followed in such allocation is found to
 be unfair, unreasonable, discriminatory, non-transparent,
 capricious or suffers from favoritism or nepotism and violative of
 the mandate of Article 14 of the Constitution, the consequences
 of such unconstitutional or illegal allocation must follow." In light of the aforesaid, no allotment can be done in the

manner and method it has been directed by the learned Single

Judge in the present case. The land in question is situated in

commercial area. Undisputedly, it is not a part of Press Complex

and the plots in the Press Complex cannot be compared with the

plots which are situated in commercial area and is valued at about

Rs.200 Crores. The State Government has framed Rules for

allotment of land and the Indore Development Authority does not Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 62 - have any choice except to follow the Rules framed on the subject. 41- In the case of Centre for Public Interest Litigation

and Others Vs. Union of India and Others reported in (2012) 3

SCC 1. The apex Court in paragraphs No.74 to 76, 85 and 89 has

held as under:- Uganda (Ed.: Armed Activities on the Territory of the Congo
 (Democratic Repuboic of the Congo v. Uganda), ICJ Reports
 2005, p. 168). Common law recognises States as having the
 authority to protect natural resources insofar as the resources
 are within the interests of the general public. The State is
 deemed to have a proprietary interest in natural resources and
 must act as guardian and trustee in relation to the same.
 Constitutions across the world focus on establishing natural
 resources as owned by, and for the benefit of, the country. In
 most instances where constitutions specifically address
 ownership of natural resources, the sovereign State, or, as it is
 more commonly expressed, "the People", is designated as the
 owner of the natural resources. 85. As natural resources are public goods, the doctrine of
 equality, which emerges from the concepts of justice and
 fairness, must guide the State in determining the actual
 mechanism for distribution of natural resources. In this regard,
 the doctrine of equality has two aspects: first, it regulates the
 rights and obligations of the State vis-à-vis its people and
 demands that the people be granted equitable access to natural
 resources and/or its products and that they are adequately
 compensated for the transfer of the resource to the private
 domain; and second, it regulates the rights and obligations of
 the State vis-à-vis private parties seeking to acquire/use the
 resource and demands that the procedure adopted for
 distribution is just, non-arbitrary and transparent and that it does
 not discriminate between similarly placed private parties. 89. In conclusion, we hold that the State is the legal
 owner of the natural resources as a trustee of the people and
 although it is empowered to distribute the same, the process of
 distribution must be guided by the constitutional principles
 including the doctrine of equality and larger public good." 42- The Hon'ble Supreme Court has taken care of various

judgments delivered on subject from time to time and in the

considered opinion of this Court in case of allotment of land a fair

and transparent procedure has to be adopted. The writ of

mandamus cannot be issued in the manner and method it has been Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 64 - done by the learned Single Judge directing the Indore Development

Authority to execute the lease deed in favour of the petitioner. The

impugned judgment delivered by the learned Single Judge

deserves to be set aside and is accordingly set aside. 43- The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a recent judgment dated

30/10/2018 delivered in Civil Appeal No.7184-7185 of 2013 ( J. S.

Luthra Academy & Another Vs. State of Jammu and Kashmir &

Others ) has dealt with a issue of allotment of public land /

government land without following the process of auction. 44- In the aforesaid case, the land was allotted to J. S.

Luthra Academy (an Educational Institution) and the allotment was

challenged before the Jammu and Kashmir High Court and the

Division Bench of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court has set

aside the allotment of land, which was done in favour of J. S.

Luthra Academy (an Educational Institution). The Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the aforesaid case has dealt with all the leading cases in

respect of allocation of natural resources / allotment of government

land / allotment of land belonging to public bodies and in paragraph

No.6 of the aforesaid judgment the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

held as under:- This decision emphasised that the ultimate goal to be
served was that of the public good, and all methods of
distribution of natural resources that ultimately served the public
good would be valid, as reflected in the following observations: It would be useful to note at this juncture that in this decision,
the Court assessed the position of law developed through a
catena of decisions, including Netai Bag & Ors. v. State of W.B.
& Ors. , ( 2000) 8 SCC 262, 5 M&T Consultants v. S.Y. Nawab ,
( 2003) 8 SCC 100, and Villianur Iyarkkai Padukappu Maiyam v.
Union of India , (2009) 7 SCC 561, wherein it has been held that
non-floating of tenders or holding of auction by itself is not
sufficient to hold that the exercise of power was arbitrary. It
would be useful to reproduce the following observations from Netai Bag (supra), which were also relied upon by the Court in
Natural Resources Allocation, In Re (supra) to highlight that the
ultimate test is only that of fairness of the decision-making
process and compliance with Article 14 of the Constitution: The above principles were also reiterated in Manohar Lal
Sharma (supra), wherein this Court observed at para 110: In Ajar Enterprises (P) Ltd. v. Satyanarayan Somani , (2018) 12
SCC 756, this Court affirmed the above principles in the
following terms: The position of law developed through these decisions was
summed up in the following manner by this Court in Goa
Foundation v. Sesa Sterlite Ltd. , (2018) 4 SCC 218, after
adverting to the various decisions referred to above : The ultimate decision of the executive must be the result
 of a fair decision-making process. (ii) The allocation must be guided by the consideration of the
 common good as per Article 39(b) , and must not be
 violative of Article 14. This does not necessarily entail
 auction of the resource; however, allocation of natural
 resources to private persons for commercial exploitation
 solely for private benefit, with no social or welfare
 purpose, attracts higher judicial scrutiny and may be held
 to be violative of Article 14 if done by noncompetitive and
 non-revenue maximizing means. Keeping in mind the aforementioned principles formulated
by this Court in the aforementioned judgments, we have
considered the entire material on record. It must be determined
as to whether the allocation made in favour of the Academy fell
foul of the above principles. In the instant case, the allocation
has evidently been done to a private educational institution by
non-revenue maximizing means. Assuming that the Academy is Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 69 - engaged in commercial activities while engaging in its main
 activity of imparting education to students, two questions remain
 to be seen: first, whether there was any social or welfare
 purpose underlying the allocation, i.e., if the furtherance of the
 public good was the ultimate goal of the allocation so as to
 justify the non-auctioning of the land, and second, if the
 allocation is bad for lack of adequate compensation." The Hon'ble Supreme Court after taking in to account

the principle summarized above has upheld the allotment, however,

at the same time has directed the allottee to pay Rs.8,00,000/- per

kanal in respect of land received gratuitously, which was the

average auction price prevailing at the time of allocation, meaning

thereby, nothing was given free even to the Educational Institution. 45- In the present case, the respondent wants the land

belonging to Indore Development Authority for almost negligible

consideration that too dehors the statutory provision governing the

field on the ground that in similar circumstances land has been

allotted to various other newspapers. It has been stated at bar by

the learned Advocate General that after the judgment was delivered

by the Division Bench in the first round of litigation, leases have not

been renewed in respect of other newspapers and no final order

has passed by the Indore Development Authority, otherwise also no

relief can be claimed on the ground of negative equality. 46- This Court would like to clarify one more thing that the

land for which the petitioner is staking his claim is not a land in the

area which is marked for Press Complex, on the contrary the piece Writ Appeal No.1142/2013 - 70 - of land is situated in a commercial area surrounded by commercial

buildings and therefore, the petitioner can never said to be an

identically placed person claiming the land, which is situated in

identical place, where the land was allotted to other newspaper

groups. 47- Resultantly, the impugned judgment dated 14/11/2013

passed by the learned Single Judge in Writ Petition No.2801/2012

is quashed. The Indore Development Authority shall be free to

dispose of the land in question in accordance with law, keeping in

view the statutory provisions as contained under the Rules of 2018. With the aforesaid, writ appeal stands allowed. Certified copy as per rules. No order as to costs.