1. This is a petition filed by a Christian wife for a decree of nullity of marriage with the respondent, also a Christian, particularly on the ground that the consent of the petitioner for the marriage in question with the respondent was obtained by fraud. 2. The petitioner's case, as stated in the petition, is as under :- After the marriage, there was no honeymoon. The respondent did not take the petitioner to any of his relatives or friend's places. After the marriage, the petitioner stayed with the respondent for about a month and during the last week of June, 1985 the petitioner returned to Ahmedabad. During this stay with the petitioner, the respondent mortgaged the gold which was given to him at the time of marriage in order to meet his financial requirements. At the time of the marriage, the respondent had a debt of Rs.20,000/- which he had borrowed from different people. The gold which the respondent had mortgaged has not been returned to the petitioner till this date. Though as per the understanding after the marriage, the petitioner was to resign her job in Ahmedabad and stay with the respondent in Kerala, the petitioner was forced to come back to Ahmedabad as there was no source of income with the respondent. 2.5 The petitioner came to know that whatever the respondent had told her and her parents regarding his income, qualification and family status was absolutely wrong. The petitioner came to know that the respondent had two younger brothers and both of them had married and were having children. (At the hearing, a reference is made to the custom of the community that the property of the father is given to the youngest son and, therefore, the respondent not being the youngest son, was not going to get the property as per the custom of the community). The petitioner did not have any property except 50 cents of land. To the utter shock and surprise of the petitioner, she came to know that the respondent was unemployed and was not even a graduate. When the petitioner made enquiries from the respondent about the details of his employment, the respondent evaded answers. The petitioner submits that she gave consent to the marriage only because the respondent represented and made her to believe that he was a graduate and was employed with AGRO earning a decent monthly salary of Rs.1400/-. When the petitioner wanted to discuss the future plan, the respondent confessed that he had no avocation in life. The respondent told the petitioner that if the petitioner resigns her job and lives in Kerala, he was not having any means to support the family as he was not employed. He also expressed his helplessness to join the petitioner at Ahmedabad since he did not even possess the educational qualification to secure a job in Ahmedabad. 2.6 The petitioner has stated that if the petitioner had the knowledge about the real state of affairs of the respondent, she would not have given her consent for the marriage. The petitioner had given the consent for the marriage particularly with a reference to the purported quality of the respondent which he claimed to have, but the respondent deliberately concealed several significant factors and made representations to the petitioner in order to obtain her consent for the marriage. The representations made by the respondent and the broker regarding the employment, financial status and educational qualifications were all false and were made with an intent to defraud the petitioner. Thus, the consent of the petitioner for the marriage was obtained by fraud and, therefore, the petitioner is entitled to get a decree declaring her marriage with the respondent as null and void. 2.7 In the petition, the petitioner had initially stated that with a view to see that the behaviour of the respondent changes, the petitioner brought the respondent to Ahmedabad and petitioner and the respondent lived at Azad Society, Ambawadi between 15.12.1985 and 31.12.1985 and that this was the last time the petitioner and the respondent lived together as husband and wife and that, thereafter they never lived together. 2.8 In the petition, as originally drafted, the petitioner had also invoked the ground contained in Section 19(1) of the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 to the effect that the respondent was impotent at the time of marriage and at the time of the institution of the suit. However, the said ground was not pressed at the hearing of this petition and, therefore, the petition has been heard only for the prayer for decree of nullity of marriage on the ground that the petitioner's consent was obtained by the respondent by fraud. 3. The respondent has filed counter affidavit denying the petitioner's case and stating that the respondent had done his B.A. in Economics and the respondent was employed as a representative with Agro Chemicals and was receiving Rs.1500/- from the said employment. The respondent has asserted that the respondent was a degree holder and had a reasonable job, temporarily, at the time of marriage and that his financial stability was also sound, that he never informed anybody that he was the owner of 3 acres of land and a house; the 3 acres of land and a house was the property belonging to the respondent's father. The marriage was an arranged marriage and there were sufficient enquiries from both the families before the marriage as the two families are situated within a distance of 8 kms. The financial status of both the families was equal at the time of marriage and since the respondent had a reasonably good job, temporarily, at the time of marriage, the respondent's financial stability was also sound. The petitioner was a Typist and she did not pass the pre-degree course. Hence, she cannot legitimately expect a higher qualification from her husband. Before the marriage, the petitioner's parents and other relatives visited the respondent's house on four occasions and ascertained and knew the real situation. There was no occasion for the respondent to tell the petitioner that the respondent was the youngest son of his parents as the respondent had one elder brother and one younger brother. The respondent also denied the petitioner's case of demand of Rs.10,000/- as pocket money before the engagement or thereafter. The petitioner and the respondent had a private talk on the first occasion for about 40 minutes. The respondent did not ask for any dowry of Rs.1,00,000/- from the petitioner or her parents nor did the respondent receive any gold from the petitioner and her parents, but the petitioner's father assigned about 45 cents of land in the joint names of the petitioner and the respondent. The respondent also denied the petitioner's case that the respondent had mortgaged the petitioner's gold or that the respondent had a debt of Rs.20,000/- at the time of marriage. It is stated that the petitioner returned to Ahmedabad on her own volition. It is also contended that it was not the respondent who was demanding money from the petitioner, but the petitioner was demanding money from the respondent. As regards the age, the respondent admits that at the time of marriage he was aged 41 years and the petitioner was aged 29 years but the respondent denied the allegation that he had held out his age to be 31 years. The respondent has also stated that he had never gone to Ahmedabad and that this Court has no jurisdiction to hear and decide this petition. As regards the allegations of impotence, the same are denied and various letters are produced with the counter affidavit to show smooth relations between the parties. 4. Though the petitioner did file affidavit in rejoinder, the same is not taken into account as the learned counsel for the respondent had prayed for time to meet with the affidavit in rejoinder. However, since the affidavit in rejoinder is more or less reproduction of the petitioner's case in the original petition and is also argumentative in nature and since the learned counsel for the respondent objected to such affidavit being filed on the last date of hearing, the Court does not think it necessary to refer to the same. The rejoinder affidavit, of course, seeks to deny the allegation of the respondent that he never came to Ahmedabad, but it is not necessary to refer to the said part of the rejoinder either, as the learned counsel for the petitioner has argued the case on the basis that even if the respondent had not come to Ahmedabad in the past, the present petition is maintainable without going into the controversy as to whether the respondent had ever come to Ahmedabad after the marriage in question. 5. The parties have not chosen to lead oral evidence in this matter as the dispute between the parties about the alleged fraud in the petitioner's giving consent to the marriage with the respondent was already examined by the Ecclesiastical Court called "Tribunal Diocesanum Palaiense". The parties have, therefore, referred to the facts recorded by the Tribunal in its judgment dated 10.10.1995 which is produced by the respondent with his affidavit in reply and heavily relied upon by him. The Court has, therefore, proceeded on the facts as recorded by the said Tribunal and as explained by the parties in their respective pleadings. The matter has of course been aruged on the questions as to what inferences are to be drawn from those facts. 6. The following issues have been raised for decision of this Court :- 7. As far as the first question about territorial jurisdiction is concerned, Mr KK Nair for the respondent even submitted that the first issue about the jurisdiction may be treated as a preliminary issue and that further hearing of the petition may be adjourned after the decision is rendered on the said preliminary issue so that the aggrieved party can go in appeal against the finding on such preliminary issue. In the facts and circumstances of the case, the request of Mr Nair was rejected and the Court considered it just and proper to hear the petition on all issues and not to go for any piece-meal hearing. 8. As far as the question of jurisdiction is concerned, the relevant provisions of the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 required to be referred to are as under :- 2. Extent of Act. - This Act extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Extent of power to grant relief generally,
 

Nothing hereinafter contained shall authorise any Court to grant any relief under this Act except where the petitioner or respondent professes the Christian religion. and to make decrees of dissolution,
 

or to make decrees of dissolution of marriage except where the parties to the marriage are domiciled in India at the time when the petition is presented,
 

 or of nullity
 

or to make decrees of nullity of marriage except where the marriage has been solemnized in India and the petitioner is resident in India at the time of presenting the petition,
 

or to grant any relief under this Act, other than a decree of dissolution of marriage or of nullity of marriage, except where the petitioner resides in India at the time of presenting the petition. 3. Interpretation clause.- In this Act, unless there be something repugnant in the subject or context -