Heard counsel for the parties. This application is filed under Section 438 of Cr.P.C.
for grant of anticipatory bail in connection with Crime No.
539/2013 registered with Police Station S.T.F., Bhopal -
commonly known as VYAPAM examination scam cases -
for the offence punishable under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 201 and 120-B of IPC, section 25 / 27 of Arms Act, section 65 of the I.T. Act and Section 3(Gha) 1 , 2 / 4 of the
M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant is that the applicant
arranged for the Scorer - Ashutosh Maurya and introduced
him to Vikas Singh, who was asked to arrange for the
impersonator by the candidate - Sehar Kirmani appearing
in the VYAPAM examination. According to the applicant, the fact that applicant was (2) familiar to Ashutosh Maurya and merely because he
introduced him to Vikas Singh cannot be the basis to
proceed against the applicant without anything more. This
argument clearly overlooks that the Investigating Agency
may have to inquire into all aspects of the matter for which
the applicant must cooperate. Considering the seriousness of the offence and the
fact that Ashutosh Maurya had appeared as impersonator
and it has been noticed from the material already collected
by the Investigating Agency that he had no prior contact
with Vikas Singh and that the applicant was responsible for
arranging the meeting between Ashutosh Maurya and
Vikas Singh, these circumstances raise reasonable
suspicion about the involvement of the applicant, which
matters will have to be inquired into by the Investigating
Agency. Learned counsel for the applicant would then submit
that the role of the applicant is similar to the role of
accused to whom interim protection has been granted by
the Supreme Court and also by this Court in several other
cases. This submission, in our opinion, is untenable. The
learned counsel for the respondent has rightly pointed out
that the role of the applicant is different than the role of the (3) accused, who have been granted such protection. The role
of these applicants is of Scorers and not of middlemen. The
role of applicant prima facie appears to be one of a
middleman, having arranged for the impersonator, to
appear in the examination in place of original candidate
pursuant to the request made by Vikas Singh - the
middleman, who acted on behalf of the original candidate. Considering the above, the applicant is not entitled
for similar relief as has been granted to Scorers in other
cases. Learned counsel for the applicant would then submit
that the applicant is expected to appear in the examination
to be conducted by the University at Itawa (Uttar Pradesh)
on 29.06.2015. That cannot be the basis to stall the
investigation which is ordered to be completed by July 15 th,
2015 by the Supreme Court. The investigation can
meaningfully proceed only if the applicant is interrogated
and as suggested by the Investigating Officer that his
custodial interrogation may become necessary if the
applicant fails to reveal the relevant information
concerning the modus of commission of the alleged
offence. The applicant is free to appear before the
Investigating Officer; and if the Investigating Officer is of
the opinion that the applicant has revealed all the relevant (4) information and was not involved in the commission of the
offence in any manner, there is no reason why the
Investigating Officer would proceed against the applicant. In our opinion, therefore, grant of anticipatory bail in
the fact situation of the present case will be a misplaced
sympathy shown to the applicant particularly when the
Supreme Court has already directed the Investigating
Agency (STF) to conclude the investigation in all such
cases before 15th July, 2015 and submit police reports in
the concerned crimes. If indulgence is shown to the
applicant, as suggested, there will be no way for the
Investigating Officer to complete the investigation of the
crime in question and to file final charge sheet before 15 th
July, 2015. The efficacy of custodial interrogation has been
expounded by the Supreme Court in the case of CBI Vs.
Anil Sharma, AIR 1997 SC 3806. In paragraph 6 of the
said decision, the Apex Court has observed thus :- Taking overall view of the matter, in the interest of
justice, we reject this anticipatory bail application filed by
the applicant, in the fact situation of the present case. This application is filed under Section 438 of Cr.P.C.
for grant of anticipatory bail on behalf of applicant in
connection with Crime No.898/2013 registered with Police
Station Garha, Jabalpur - commonly known as VYAPAM
examination scam cases - for the offence punishable under Sections 417 , 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of IPC,
and Section 3 , 4 of the M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha
Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to this applicant is that he
 impersonated the original candidate during the VYAPAM
 examination and was party to commission of unfair means
 during the said examination. For the reasons already recorded in the anticipatory
 bail application No.8016/2015, even this application
 should fail as the argument of the present applicant is that
 he is resident of Fatehpur, State of Uttar Pradesh and had
 no occasion to appear in any examination conducted in
 Madhya Pradesh. That being matter of investigation and as
 involvement of the applicant has come on record during the
 investigation, the question of granting anticipatory bail in
 such a serious crime, does not arise. Dismissed.