Bail petitioners, who are in judicial custody, have

 approached this Court, by way of aforesaid petitions filed under Section

 439 of Cr.PC, praying therein for grant of regular bail in case FIR No.

 100/17 dated 22.11.2017, under Sections 420,467, 468 and 471 of IPC,

 registered at PS Kala Amb, District Sirmaur, H.P. 2. Sequel to order dated 31.1.2018, ASI Hem Raj, PS Kala Amb,

 District Sirmaur, H.P., has come present along with records. Mr. Dinesh

 Thakur, learned Additional Advocate General, has also placed on record

 status report prepared on the basis of investigation carried out by the

 Investigating agency. 3. Careful perusal of the record/status report made available

 to this Court, suggest that FIR, detailed hereinabove, came to be

 registered against the above named bail petitioners at the behest of the

 complainant namely Sh. Rupesh Kumar, Branch Manager, PNB Kheri, who

 alleged that cheque bearing No.767529, dated 14.11.2017, amounting to

 Rs. 3 crores, purported to be issued by A.K. Traders in favour of M/s Spark

 NGO, was presented in the branch for clearance, however fact remains

 that on inquiry Sh. A.K.Panwar, proprietor of M/s A.K. Traders informed that ::: Downloaded on - 01/03/2018 23:01:22 :::HCHP 3 no such cheque has been ever issued in favour of M/s Spark NGO. Since,

 M/s Spark Ngo obtained/managed the aforesaid cheque, complainant

 . requested the investigating Agency to investigate the matter and file

 case against the culprits. During investigation, police took into custody

 the record pertaining to account No.4503000100044775 and also

 interrogated Pardeep Kumar, who had been running the affairs of NGO,

 referred hereinabove. During investigating, Pradeep Kumar revealed that

 person namely Sh. Gurpreet Singh, had given him aforesaid cheque at

 Kala Amb. Police also interrogated Sh. Gurpreet Singh, who disclosed that

 person namely Sh. Amardeep Singh got him introduced to Dharamvir

 Singh, R/o of Delhi. On 24.11.2017, police arrested Gurpreet Singh,

 Amardeep Singh and Dharamvir Singh and since then they are behind

 the bars, whereas, Pradeep Kumar obtained anticipatory bail from the

 Co-ordinate bench of this Court i.e. Cr.MP(M) No.1582 of 2017, which

 came to be confirmed on 4.1.2018. Persons named hereinabove have

 further disclosed that one Sh. Rajesh Kumar Pandey, who had been

 rendering services as Clerk in the postal Department at Delhi came into

 their contact during demonetization and since then they had been

 indulging in preparation and manufacturing of fake cheques and

 National Saving Certificates. Police also arrested person namely Arshad ,

 who in lieu of money paid to him by the bail petitioners, named ::: Downloaded on - 01/03/2018 23:01:22 :::HCHP 4 hereinabove used to bring fake cheques. On 26.11.2017, police arrested

 accused namely Rajesh Kumar Panday. Subsequently, on 5.12.2017

 . Investigating Agency also arrested another co-accused Arshad Ahmad,

 who at first instance denied his involvement in the crime alleged to be

 committed by the persons named above in the FIR, but subsequently, got

 one printer, laptop and other material allegedly used for preparation of

 fake cheques, recovered from Delhi, which have been further sent to

 SFSL, Junga for chemical analysis . 4. Mr. Rupinder Singh, learned counsel representing the bail

 petitioners, while referring to the status report placed on record by the

 investigating agency, forcibly contended that no case is made out

 against the bail petitioners because no fake cheques have been

 recovered from their custody. Learned counsel further contended that

 otherwise also cheque allegedly presented in the bank was not encashed

 and as such, no pecuniary loss, if any, has been caused to the bank. Mr.

 Rupinder Singh, learned counsel, further contended that bare perusal of

 status report nowhere reveals that incriminating evidence, if any, has

 been collected so far by the investigating agency against the bail

 petitioners and as such, they cannot be kept in illegal detention for

 indefinite period, especially when investigation in the case is complete

 and nothing is required to be recovered from the bail petitioners. While ::: Downloaded on - 01/03/2018 23:01:22 :::HCHP 5 inviting attention of this Court to the order dated 4.1.2018, passed by the

 Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Cr.MP(M) No.1582 of 2017, titled as

 . Pradeep Singh versus State of Himachal Pradesh , learned counsel

 contended that main accused, who had presented the alleged fake

 cheque in the bank has been already enlarged on bail and as such, other

 accused named in the same FIR also deserves to be enlarged on bail. Lastly, Mr. Rupinder Singh, learned counsel representing the petitioners,

 named hereinabove, forcibly contended that it is well settled by now that

 freedom of an rindividual cannot be curtailed for an indefinite period

 during the pendency of trial and he/she is deemed to be innocent till the

 time guilt, if any, of his/her is proved in accordance with law. 5. To the contrary, Mr. Dinesh Thakur, learned Additional

 Advocate General, while opposing the aforesaid prayer for grant of bail

 having been made on behalf of the bail petitioners, strenuously argued

 that keeping in view the gravity of offence allegedly committed by the

 bail petitioners, they do not deserve to be shown any leniency, rather

 needs to be dealt with severely. Learned Additional Advocate General

 while inviting attention of this Court to the status report, contended that it

 stand duly established on record that all the bail petitioners are the part of

 racket, who used to prepare fake cheques and bonds of the different

 banks. While fairly acknowledging the fact that investigation in the case is ::: Downloaded on - 01/03/2018 23:01:22 :::HCHP 6 almost complete and nothing is required to be recovered from the bail

 petitioners herein, learned Additional Advocate General contended that

 . report of SFSL is still awaited. He further stated that there is possibility of

 involvement of other persons as have been named in the status report

 and as such, enlargement of bail petitioners on bail at this stage may

 cause great prejudice to the investigation of the case, which is at crucial

 stage, however, fact remains that learned Additional Advocate General

 fairly admitted that another co-accused namely Pardeep Kumar has

 been already enlarged on bail by the Co-ordinate Bench of this Court. Lastly, learned Additional Advocate General contended that all the bail

 petitioners except Gurpreet Singh hails from other State and as such, it

 may be difficult to procure their presence during the trial in the event of

 their being enlarged on bail and as such ,bail petitions may be rejected. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and gone

 through the record carefully. 7. Record/status report clearly reveals that investigation qua all

 the bail petitioners is almost complete and nothing is required to be

 recovered from them. All the bail petitioners are in judicial custody for

 quite considerable time and as such, this Court finds considerable force in

 the argument of learned counsel for the bail petitioners that custodial

 interrogation of bail petitioners is not required. Non-receipt of report of ::: Downloaded on - 01/03/2018 23:01:22 :::HCHP 7 SFSL cannot be a ground to keep the bail petitioners in custody for

 indefinite period because laptop, printer and mobile phones allegedly

 . used by the bail petitioners for preparing/manufacturing fake cheques

 and bonds etc. have already been taken into custody by the

 investigating agency. Otherwise also, bare perusal of status report

 nowhere indicate the actual role, if any, played by the bail petitioners

 towards preparation of fake cheques. Though, there is reference in the

 status report with regard to involvement of bail petitioners in similar crimes

 in past also, but no evidence in this regard has been made available on

 record. 8. Leaving everything aside, this Court cannot loose the sight

 of the fact that freedom of an individual is of utmost importance and

 cannot be allowed to be curtailed for indefinite period, especially when

 guilt, if any, is yet to be proved, in accordance with law. In the present

 case challan is yet to be filed by the investigating agency. Repeatedly, it

 has been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court as well as this Court that gravity

 of offence allegedly committed by the accused cannot be a sole ground

 to deny the bail, rather other factors are also required to be taken into

 consideration while considering the prayer for grant of bail. 9. Most importantly, in the case at the hand, person namely

 Pradeep Kumar , who had presented forged cheque amounting to Rs. 3 ::: Downloaded on - 01/03/2018 23:01:22 :::HCHP 8 crores in the bank has been already enlarged on bail. Perusal of order

 dated 4.1.2018, which has been placed on record by the bail petitioners

 . passed in Cr.MP(M) No.1582 of 2017, clearly suggest that learned Deputy

 Advocate General, on the instructions of the investigating Officer,

 categorically stated before the court that since bail petitioner has joined

 the investigation, his custody is not required for the purpose of

 investigation. Factum with regard to passing of order dated 4.1.2018 by

 the Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in the case referred hereinabove has

 not been disputed by the learned Additional Advocate General, rather it

 has been informed at the Bar by the learned Additional Advocate

 General that order dated 4.1.2018, passed by Co-ordinate Bench of this

 Court has been accepted. In view of above, this Court finds considerable

 force in the argument of learned counsel representing the petitioners that

 other co-accused named in the FIR, who happened to be the bail

 petitioners before this Court, also deserve to be enlarged on bail on the

 same analogy. 10. Another apprehension expressed by learned Additional

 Advocate General with regard to petitioner's absconding from trial in the

 event of their being enlarged on bail can be met by putting them to

 stringent conditions, as has been fairly stated by learned counsel

 representing the bail petitioners. 11. Recently, the Hon'ble Apex Court in Criminal Appeal No.

 227/2018, Dataram Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. , decided on

 . 6.2.2018, has categorically held that freedom of an individual is of utmost

 importance and same cannot be curtailed merely on the basis of

 suspicion. Hon'ble Apex Court has further held that till the time guilt of the

 accused is not proved in accordance with law, he is deemed to be

 innocent. The relevant paras of the aforesaid judgment are reproduced

 as under: 12. By now it is well settled that gravity alone cannot be decisive

 ground to deny bail, rather competing factors are required to be

 balanced by the court while exercising its discretion. It has been

 repeatedly held by the Hon'ble Apex Court that object of bail is to secure

 the appearance of the accused person at his trial by reasonable amount

 of bail. The object of bail is neither punitive nor preventative. The Hon'ble

 Apex Court in Sanjay Chandra versus Central Bureau of Investigation (2012)1 Supreme Court Cases 49; wherein it has been held as under:- 13. Otherwise also, normal rule is of bail and not jail. Court has

 to keep in mind nature of accusations, nature of evidence in support

 thereof, severity of the punishment which conviction will entail, character

 of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the accused

 involved in that crime. 14. Law with regard to grant of bail is now well settled. The

 apex Court in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre versus State of Maharashtra ::: Downloaded on - 01/03/2018 23:01:22 :::HCHP 12 and others , (2011) 1 SCC 694, while relying upon its decision rendered by

 its Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia vs. State of Punjab , (1980)

 . 2 SCC 565, laid down the following parameters for grant of bail:- common knowledge and concern; (viii) While considering the prayer for grant of anticipatory
 bail, a balance has to be struck between two factors
 namely, no prejudice should be caused to the free, fair and
 full investigation and there should be prevention of

 harassment, humiliation and unjustified detention of the
 accused; (ix) The court to consider reasonable apprehension of
 tampering of the witness or apprehension of threat to the
 complainant; (x) Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and
 it is only the element of genuineness that shall have to be
 considered in the matter of grant of bail and in the event of
 there being some doubt as to the genuineness of the
 prosecution, in the normal course of events, the accused is
 r entitled to an order of bail." (Emphasis supplied) 15. In Sundeep Kumar Bafna versus State of Maharashtra &

 another (2014)16 Supreme Court Cases 623, wherein it has been held as

 under:- 16. The Apex Court in Prasanta Kumar Sarkar versus Ashis

 Chatterjee and another (2010) 14 SCC 496, has laid down the following

 principles to be kept in mind, while deciding petition for bail: 17. In view of the aforesaid discussion as well as law laid down

 by the Hon'ble Apex Court, petitioners have carved out a case for grant

 of bail, accordingly, the above captioned petitions are allowed and the

 petitioners are ordered to be enlarged on bail in aforesaid FIR, subject to

 their furnishing personal bonds in the sum of Rs. two lac with one local ::: Downloaded on - 01/03/2018 23:01:22 :::HCHP 16 surety in the like amount each to the satisfaction of concerned Chief

 Judicial Magistrate, with following conditions: 18. It is clarified that if any of the petitioner misuses the liberty or

 violate any of the conditions imposed upon him, the investigating

 agency shall be free to move this Court for cancellation of the bail. 19. Any observations made hereinabove shall not be construed

 to be a reflection on the merits of the case and shall remain confined to

 the disposal of this application alone. The petitions stand accordingly disposed of. Copy dasti.