The present FIR is based on the statement of
 complainant ASI Suresh Kumar wherein he has stated that on
 24.05.2009, DD No. 29A was received at the PS which was
 marked to him upon which he alongwith police party proceeded
 to the spot i.e. Central Bank Wali Gali, C-Block, New Seelampur
 where incident of stone pelting and clash among groups was
 reported. At the spot other staff as well as SHO was present and
 announcement was made for the crowd to disperse but they did
 not rather the crowd damaged govt. motorcycle bearing no.
 Digitally
 signed by

ANMOL
 ANMOL
 NOHRIA DL1SN 8688. After which slight force was used by the police to
NOHRIA Date: He further deposed that 13-14 persons were apprehended at the
 spot and they were having sticks and stones in their hands but he
 cannot remember the names of persons apprehended at the spot. 7.1. ASI Jaswant Singh (PW1) was cross-examined by
 the Ld. APP for the State and his attention was drawn towards
 accused Gulfam, present in the court but he failed to identify the
 Digitally
 signed by
 ANMOL
ANMOL NOHRIA
NOHRIA
 accused and has denied suggestion of intentionally not
 Date: 8.1. In his cross-examination HC Chiranji Lal (PW2) has
 stated that no public witness was joined by the IO in his presence
 and has denied the suggestions of not being present at the spot or
 not being part of police proceedings. 9. HC Prakash (PW3) has also deposed about the
 incident and damaged to govt. motorcycle alongwith steps taken
 by the SHO for dispersal of the crowd. He has further stated that
 police officials apprehended accused persons part of the crowd
 while some managed to flee away. He has stated that accused
 namely Vivek, Tilak, Shamsher, Pradeep, Ravinder, Gulfam,
 Digitally
 signed by
 ANMOL
 Pankaj etc. were arrested and taken into custody and bricks and
ANMOL NOHRIA
NOHRIA Date: 10 persons were apprehended at the spot and five sticks/dandas
 were seized and wrapped by IO in white cloth. He has denied the
 suggestion of not being present at the spot for not being able to
 tell the exact number of persons. He has further admitted that the
 case property produced in the court was without wrapping of
 white cloth. IO had arrested accused Gulfam in his presence. He
 has further denied that he has identified accused Gulfam in the
 court only in cross-examination at the instance of Ld. APP for the
 State or wrongly at the instance of the IO or that he was not
 present at the spot when accused Gulfam was arrested. 10. ASI Manoj Kumar (PW4) has deposed about the
 incident and efforts made by the SHO to disperse the crowd. He
 has further deposed that vehicle bearing no. DL1SN 8688,
 BM-511 was also damaged and 14-15 persons were apprehended
 who were having sticks and pieces of bricks in their hand which
 were seized. IO handed over tehrir to Ct. Chiranji Lal for
 registration of FIR who took the rukka to the PS and thereafter
 came back to the spot with the FIR. He witnesses the arrest of
 accused Pankaj and Vivek, who were arrested and personally
 Digitally
 signed by

ANMOL
 ANMOL
 NOHRIA searched in his presence. He has further deposed that out of the
NOHRIA Date: Meanwhile, SHO also came at the spot alongwith force in their
 uniform and warned the rioters and tried to disperse them,
 however, despite the warning the crowd did not disperse and
 were adamant on pelting stones and damaged govt. motorcycle
 bearing no. DL1SN 8688 after which force was used to control
 the rioters. There were around 16-17 persons but he does not
 remember the name of all of them or having dandas and ento ke
 rore . Many of the accused fled from the spot, he prepared tehrir
 and gave the same to Ct. Chiranji Lal for registration of FIR after
 Digitally
 signed by
 ANMOL
 which FIR was registered on 25.05.2009. One photographer also
ANMOL NOHRIA
NOHRIA Date: 11.1. The cross-examination of Retd. SI Suresh Kumar
 (PW5) was deferred on 17.05.2024, however, later on he could
 not appear on 02.04.2025 on account of suffering from cancer
 and was consequently dropped from list of witnesses. 12. PE was closed on 02.04.2025 and thereafter, before
 the start of defence evidence, in order to allow the accused to
 personally explain the incriminating circumstances appearing in
 evidence against him, the statement of the accused was recorded
 without oath under Section 281 read with Section 313 CrPC. He
 stated that he has been falsely implicated and not committed the
 offence as alleged and denied the allegations in toto. Pursuant
 thereto, he stated that he does not wish to lead any defence
 evidence. 13. I have heard the learned APP for the State and
 learned counsel for the accused at length. I have also have given
 my thoughtful consideration to the material appearing on record. 14. It has been argued by the learned APP for the State
 that all the ingredients of the offence are fulfilled in the present
 case. She has argued that accused has been apprehended at the
 spot and has been duly identified by the witnesses which have
 also deposed against the accused as being one of the rioters. As
 such, it is prayed that the accused be punished for the said
 offence. 15. Per contra, learned counsel for the accused has
 argued that the State has failed to establish its case beyond
 reasonable doubt. He has argued that the prosecution has failed to
 prove that the basic essentials of the offence. It is submitted that
 the identity of the accused has not been proven by any of the
 witnesses and the witnesses examined are not part of the
 proceedings against the accused in question. It is further argued
 that the evidence of the IO is incomplete and cannot be read into
 evidence to prove the offence. As such, it is prayed that the
 Digitally
 signed by
 ANMOL
 accused be acquitted for the said offence. 16. This Court has thoughtfully considered the material
 on record and arguments advanced with due circumspection. 17. This Court has thoughtfully considered the material
 on record and arguments advanced with due circumspection. 18. In Mahadev Sharma v. State of Bihar , (1966) 1 SCR
 18 : AIR 1966 SC 302 : 1966 Cri LJ 197 , Hon'ble Supreme
 Court has observed that: 19. Section 149 then creates vicarious responsibility for
 other offences besides rioting. The section provides as follows: 20. For the application of the section there must be an
 unlawful assembly. Then if an offence is committed in
 prosecution of the common object of that assembly or is such as
 the members of the unlawful assembly know to be likely to be
 committed then whoever is member of that assembly at the time
 the offence is committed is guilty. Digitally
 signed by
 ANMOL 21. It was also observed in Mahadev (supra) that :- "Is it obligatory to charge a person under
 +0530
 Section 147 or Section 148 before Section
 149 can be utilized? Section 149 does not FIR No. 195/2009 PS - Seelampur Page No.14 of 31 state this to be a condition precedent for its
 own application. No other section
 prescribes this procedure. Sections 146 and
 149 represent conditions under which
 vicarious liability arises for the acts of
 others. If force or violence is used by a
 member in the prosecution of the common
 object of the unlawful assembly every
 member of the assembly is rendered guilty
 of the offence of rioting and is punishable
 for that offence under Section 147. The
 offence of rioting must, of course, occur
 when members are charged with murder as
 the common object of the unlawful
 assembly. Section 148 creates liability on
 persons armed with deadly weapons and it
 is a distinct offence. It need not detain us. If
 a person is not charged under Section 147 it
 does not mean that Section 149 cannot be
 used. When an offence (such as murder) is
 committed in prosecution of the common
 object of the unlawful assembly or the
 offence is one which the members of the
 assembly knew to be likely to be committed
 in prosecution of the common object,
 individual responsibility is replaced by
 vicarious responsibility and every person
 who is a member of the unlawful assembly
 at the time of the committing of the offence
 becomes guilty. It is not obligatory to
 charge a person under Section 143, or
 Digitally Section 144 when charging him with
 Section 147 or Section 148. Similarly, it is
 signed by
 ANMOL
ANMOL NOHRIA
NOHRIA Date: A person may join an unlawful assembly
 and be guilty under Section 143 or 147 or
 148 but he may cease to be its member at
 the time when the offence under Section
 302 or some other offence is committed. He
 would not in that event be liable for the
 other offence for Section 149 would not
 apply to him. The fallacy in the cases which hold that a
 charge under Section 147 is compulsory
 arises because they overlook that the
 ingredients of Section 143 are implied in
 Section 147 and the ingredients of Section
 147 are implied when a charge under
 Section 149 is included. An examination of
 Section 141 shows that the common object
 which renders an assembly unlawful may
 involve the use of criminal force or show of
 criminal force, the commission of mischief
 or criminal trespass or other offence, or
 resistance to the execution of any law or of
 any legal process. Offences under Sections
 143 and 147 must always be present when
 the charge is laid for an offence like murder
 with the aid of Section 149, but the other
 two charges need not be framed separately
 Digitally unless it is sought to secure a conviction
 under them. It is thus that Section 143 is not
 signed by
 ANMOL
ANMOL NOHRIA
NOHRIA Date: For "common object", it is not necessary
 that there should be a prior concert in the
 sense of a meeting of the members of the
 unlawful assembly, the common object may
 form on the spur of the moment; it is
 enough if it is adopted by all the members
 and is shared by all of them. In order that the case may fall under the
 first part, the offence committed must be
 connected immediately with the common
 object of the unlawful assembly of which
 Digitally the accused were members. Even if the
 offence committed is not in direct
 signed by
 ANMOL
ANMOL NOHRIA
NOHRIA Date: However, once it is established that the
 unlawful assembly had common object, it
 is not necessary that all persons forming the
 unlawful assembly must be shown to have
 committed some overt act. For the purpose
 of incurring the vicarious liability under the
 provision, the liability of other members of
 the unlawful assembly for the offence
 committed during the continuance of the
 occurrence, rests upon the fact whether the
 other members knew before hand that the
 offence actually committed was likely to be
 committed in prosecution of the common
 Digitally object." 23. In Masalti v. State of U.P. [AIR 1965 SC 202 : 24. In K.M. Ravi v. State of Karnataka [(2009) 16 SCC
 337 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 281] Supreme Court has observed that
 mere presence or association with other members alone does not
 per se become sufficient to hold every one of them criminally
 liable for the offences committed by the others unless there is
 sufficient evidence on record to show that each intended to or
 knew the likelihood of commission of such an offending act. 25. In State of U.P. v. Kishanpal [(2008) 16 SCC 73 : 26. In Amerika Rai v. State of Bihar [(2011) 4 SCC
 677 : (2011) 2 SCC (Cri) 429] Supreme Court has opined that for
 a member of an unlawful assembly having common object what
 is liable to be seen is as to whether there was any active
 participation and the presence of all the accused persons was
 with an active mind in furtherance of their common object. The
 law of vicarious liability under Section 149 IPC is crystal clear
 that even the mere presence in the unlawful assembly, but with an
 active mind, to achieve the common object makes such a person
 vicariously liable for the acts of the unlawful assembly. 27. In Charan Singh v. State of U.P. [(2004) 4 SCC 205 : 28. In Bhanwar Singh v State of M.P. [(2008) 16 SCC
 657 : (2010) 4 SCC (Cri) 378] hon'ble Supreme Court at p. 674,
 para 44 observed that: 29. Thus, the Apex Court has warned through a catena
 of judgments that where general allegations are made against a
 large number of persons the court would categorically scrutinise
 the evidence and hesitate to convict the large number of persons
 if the evidence available on record is vague. It is obligatory on
 the part of the court to examine that if the offence committed is
 not in direct prosecution of the common object, it yet may fall
 under the second part of Section 149 IPC, if the offence was such
 as the members knew was likely to be committed. Further
 inference has to be drawn as to what was the number of persons;
 how many of them were merely passive witnesses; what were
 their arms and weapons. The number and nature of injuries is
 also relevant to be considered. "Common object" may also be
 developed at the time of incident. 30. In the present case, accused has been charged with
 offence punishable under section 147/148 r/w 149 IPC and u/S
 427 IPC alongwith Section 3 of PDPP Act. The use of section
 Digitally
 signed by
 149 IPC is not required for offence punishable under section 147
 ANMOL
ANMOL
NOHRIA
 NOHRIA
 Date: As a matter legislative policy, a minimum of five persons are
 required for forming an unlawful assembly. All the PWs in the
 present matter have deposed that a crowd had gathered at the spot
 but none of them could tell the exact number of persons who
 were present at the spot, however, they all have deposed that 13-
 14 persons were apprehended at the spot and certain persons
 managed to flee away. Further, all of them have deposed that the
 crowd which had gathered was carrying dandas and stones with
 them and had also damaged the govt. motorcycle bearing no.
 DL1SN 8688. As such from the testimony of the prosecution
 witnesses, it is clear that an unlawful assembly had formed on the
 spot. 32. Since the factum of unlawful assembly has been
 Digitally
 signed by
 ANMOL
 established by the prosecution now it is to determine whether the
ANMOL NOHRIA
NOHRIA Date: However, from the evidence on record only one of the
 Digitally
 signed by

ANMOL
 ANMOL
 NOHRIA prosecution witnesses i.e. PW4 has identified the accused
NOHRIA Date: tion laid down by the Courts of Law in respect of assessing the
 evidence in criminal cases. In Awadhi Yadav v. State of Bihar ,
 (1971) 3 SCC 116 at page 117, Hon'ble Supreme Court has ob-
 served that: 40. In State of Haryana v. Bhagirath , (1999) 5 SCC 96 : 41. Francis Wharton, a celebrated writer on criminal law
 in the United States has quoted from judicial pronouncements in
 his book Wharton's Criminal Evidence (at p. 31, Vol. 1 of the
 12th Edn.) as follows: 42. In the treatise The Law of Criminal Evidence
 authored by H.C. Underhill it is stated (at p. 34, Vol. 1 of the 5th
 Edn.) thus: 2025.09.27
 15:12:00
 +0530 FIR No. 195/2009 PS - Seelampur Page No.29 of 31 43. The evidence brought on record by the prosecution,
 is not sufficient to link the accused Gulfam to the commission of
 the crime. As discussed above, the prosecution has failed to
 prove the identity of the accused as member of unlawful
 assembly and thus no offence punishable under section
 147 / 148 / 149 / 427 IPC & Section 3 PDPP Act has been proved. 44. Thus, in view of the above discussion, the
 Prosecution has not been able to establish beyond reasonable
 doubt that accused Gulfam has committed offences u/S
 147 / 148 / 149 / 427 IPC & Section 3 PDPP Act. Therefore, accused
 Gulfam S/o Rahish is found not guilty in the present case and
 resultantly, he stands acquitted in the present case. 45. Bail bonds and surety bonds of the accused stands
 discharged. Original be returned to rightful owner after
 cancellation of endorsement. Superdarinama, if any, hereby
 stands cancelled. 46. Accused Gulfam is directed to furnish bonds in the
 Digitally
 signed by
 ANMOL
 sum of Rs.10,000/- with a surety of like amount u/S 437A Cr.P.C
ANMOL NOHRIA
NOHRIA Date: 47. This judgment contains 31 pages. This judgment has
 been signed and pronounced by the undersigned in open court. 48. Let a copy of the judgment be uploaded on the
 official website of District Courts, Karkardooma forthwith. File be consigned to record room after due
 compliance. Announced in the open (ANMOL NOHRIA)
 Court on 27th Sept., 2025 JMFC-02/NE/KKD COURTS

 Digitally
 signed by
 ANMOL
ANMOL NOHRIA
NOHRIA Date: