This petition has been moved by Shekhar under Section 438 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure seeking his anticipatory bail in case FIR

No.207 dated 6.7.2009 under Section 376 of IPC at Police Station Hodal,

District Faridabad. The facts in brief are that Neeru wife of Narender Kumar alias

Naresh made statement before the Police that her husband Narender Kumar

is doing the work of selling vegetables. He is a friend of Shekhar (referring

to the petitioner). The petitioner used to visit their house. About one and a

half years ago, when she was coming back from Mandir to her house,

Shekhar stopped his vehicle in front of her. He said to her that `Bhabhi Ji' I

will drop you at home. After believing his words, I sat on his vehicle. At

that time, Shekhar gave me sweets to eat. After eating the same, I became

unconscious. When I came to my senses, I found myself at an unknown Criminal Misc. No. M- 22693 of 2009 -2- place. Shekhar committed rape upon me and prepared a video clipping. On

the basis of this video clipping, he started blackmailing me and used to call

me time and again and exploited me sexually and also used to threaten me

that if I disclosed this thing to anyone, then he would make this film public.

The matter has reached at such a stage that Shekhar has prepared about 20

films and on the same, Shekhar himself and his some friends who are

unknown to me raped me continuously for various days. On 2.7.2009,

Shekhar came to my house and raped me. At the same time, my husband

Narender Kumar reached the house. When he objected to this, he was man-

handled. Now, I have disclosed all the secrets to my family members. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties, besides

perusing the record with due care and circumspection. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted with a good deal

of force that there is a delay of 4 days in making the complaint by the

prosecutrix to the police, though as per the prosecution version, all the facts

were in the knowledge of husband of the prosecutrix. Her husband had

already filed a complaint to the police. The delay creates a doubt in the

story of prosecution and proves that this is the result of consultations and

deliberations. Narender alias Naresh, husband of the prosecutrix had moved

a complaint in writing to the police inter-alia alleging that on 2.7.2009 at

about 8:00 P.M., after selling the vegetables, he was taking rest on the roof

of his house, when he heard the screams of his wife, he ran and came down

and saw that Shekhar was attempting to commit rape on his wife. Manish

son of Suresh was helping Shekhar was catching hold of the legs of the

prosecutrix and 3-4 unknown persons having country-made pistols tried to

save his wife from their clutches, they mercilessly gave beatings to him and Criminal Misc. No. M- 22693 of 2009 -3- his wife and caused many injuries and threatened Narender and his wife to

kill them. This undated application was moved by him on 2.7.2009,

whereafter Mr. Harish Kumar, Advocate who is related to the husband of

the prosecutrix came into their touch and on his advice, the present

complaint was made and on the basis of the same, the present FIR has been

registered. These facts prove that this FIR is nothing, but a bundle of

concoctions. The place of occurrence is shown to be House No.49 of the

prosecutrix and her husband Narender. Actually, the prosecutrix and her

husband are living in joint family. The time of occurrence is shown to be

8:00 P.M. So, all the members of the family were in the house. Therefore,

the present FIR is totally false and frivolous. It is further argued that on 2.7.2009, the petitioner left for

Goverdhan at about 10:30 A.M from Hodal. He was going to Goverdhan,

District Mathura for Giriraj Parikarma to attend the Mela celeberations,

which is held once in an year. At about 11:00 A.M., his car slightly collided

with a motor-cycle near Chatta Railway Crossing. The motor-cyclist fell on

the kacha path, but was not injured. He man-handled the petitioner. The

co-villagers of the motor-cyclist and other passers-by gathered there and

they all went to police post where with the intervention of In-charge of

Police Post and the aforesaid co-villagers, the dispute was settled amicably

and a compromise was effected which is duly signed by the petitioner,

Pappu and others. On 2.7.2009 after reaching Goverdhan, District Mathura,

the petitioner fell ill due to abdominal pain. He got prepared his health card

from the National Rural Health Mission, District Mathura at Goverdhan

Hospital. On the said date, at 4:00 P.M., he was admitted in the Civil

Hospital and got treated himself. He was discharged from Civil Hospital at Criminal Misc. No. M- 22693 of 2009 -4- 12:00 noon on 3.7.2009. That National Rural Health Mission Hospital

issued such cards only at the time of mela. In Goverdhan, the petitioner met

Ravi son of Tulsi, Devi son of Ras Bihari, and others. That in the inquiry

held by Deputy Superintendent of Police, it is fully established that the

relationship between the petitioner and the prosecutrix was with the sweet

will/ free consent. Therefore, the question of preparing video clipping by

the petitioner does not arise. The Deputy Superintendent of Police after

detailed investigation did not say that the petitioner ever prepared video

clipping of the prosecutrix. That actually the allegation of preparing video

clipping is a manipulation and mischief of Mr. Harish Kumar, Advocate.

That the motive to implicate the petitioner is that the husband of the

prosecutrix had taken Rs.2,85,000/- as loan with interest at the rate of 12%

per annum on 7.4.2009 from the petitioner. He was bound to return the

same upto 30.6.2009 as per settlement. He failed to return it by the said

date. On 1.7.2009, the petitioner threatened Narender alias Naresh that if

the loan amount along-with interest is not returned within two days, the

petitioner shall lodge FIR under Section 420 of IPC against him. As the

financial position of Narender is very weak being a mere vegetable vendor,

he apprehended that the petitioner shall lodge FIR against him and then he

got registered this false case against the petitioner. To tide over these submissions, the learned State Counsel

assisted by the learned counsel for the complainant maintained that even

Deputy Superintendent of Police, Hodal in his report dated 11.6.2009 has

said that in view of the facts revealed by the prosecutrix, the petitioner is a

culprit and he be arrested at the earliest by collecting maximum evidence on

the file and the video clipping be recovered and the parcels be sent to the Criminal Misc. No. M- 22693 of 2009 -5- Forensic Science Laboratory for analysis. It is further pressed into service

that as a matter of fact, the petitioner has made an endeavour to set up a plea

of alibi. It was not difficult for him to procure the evidence of such plea.

This apart, the medico legal examination report reveals that Narender

Kumar had sustained sufficient injuries. Thus keeping in view the gravity

of the offence, no case is made out for grant of anticipatory bail as custodial

interrogation of the petitioner is required. I have well considered the rival contentions. The thrust of

arguments raised on behalf of the petitioner is that two versions are coming,

i.e, one through the complaint made by the prosecutrix's husband and the

other through the prosecutrix herself. In such cases, the version given out

by the prosecutrix has to be taken into account. The offence of rape is not

only against the victim rather it is against the society. There are specific

allegations in the FIR that the petitioner repeatedly committed rape on the

prosecutrix and prepared a video clipping. On the basis of such clipping,

he started blackmailing her. He used to call her over and over again to

exploit her sexually. He has prepared as many as 25 such films. This apart,

as alleged, the petitioner along-with his friends who are unknown to the

prosecutrix used to commit rape on her. The rival theory of defence is that

as a matter of fact, the prosecutrix's husband had borrowed a loan of

Rs.2,85,000/- with interest at the rate of 12% per annum from the petitioner

and when the latter asked for its return from the former, then the Narender

alias Naresh fearing registration of the case against him under Section 420 of IPC got the petitioner falsely involved in this case. In re: State of

Rajasthan v. N.K. , 2000 Criminal Law Journal 2205, it has been

observed that a father would not ordinarily subscribe to a false story of Criminal Misc. No. M- 22693 of 2009 -6- sexual assault involving his own daughter and thereby putting at stake the

reputation of the family and jeopardize the married life of the daughter. On

the same analogy, husband of the prosecutrix cannot be expected to stake

the honour of his wife by levelling false allegations of rape simply to get rid

of return of alleged amount. The petitioner has not placed on record any

document showing the transaction of alleged loan. As regards delay, it has

been held in the aforesaid N.K. 's case, the delay in lodging the FIR cannot

be a ground by itself for throwing the entire prosecution case overboard.

The State Counsel has also shown the medico- legal examination report of

Narender Kumar husband of the prosecutrix. It discloses the history of

assault. One abrasion was found on the right arm. One abrasion was

observed on his left chest and multiple contusions were observed on left

arm. The video clipping could be hardly manipulated. Mr. Harish Kumar,

Advocate could not be expected to go into such manipulations. The Deputy

Superintendent of Police in his aforesaid report has also held the petitioner

to be a culprit. He has also given direction to recover the video clippings.

Much capital has been sought to be made out of Annexure P.6, the medical

certificate. This occurrence took place on 2.7.2009. As per this medical

certificate, the petitioner was admitted in hospital for treatment on 2.7.2009

due to abdominal colic and was discharged on the next day. This certificate

purport to have been issued by the National Rural Health Mission. In the

present day situation, it is not difficult to procure such certificates. On the

basis of this evidence, plea of alibi has been sought to be established. As

per Annexure P4, the accident took place on the same day and the matter

was compromised. Ostensibly, the allegations against the petitioner are of

such a serious nature that his custodial interrogation is required. In re: State Criminal Misc. No. M- 22693 of 2009 -7- Represented By the C.B.I v. Anil Sharma, 1997(4) Recent Criminal

Reports (Criminal) 268 (SC), it has been held as under:- The provisions of Section 438 ibid cannot be invoked where

custodial interrogation is necessary or may hamper proper investigation. A

Court considering an application under this Section must strike a balance

between the rights of an accused and the duties and obligation conferred

upon an investigating agency. Considering the facts of the present case in Criminal Misc. No. M- 22693 of 2009 -8- the light of the provisions of Section 438 ibid, I am of the considered

opinion that the present petition merits dismissal. Thus, this petition is

dismissed. However, before parting with this order, it is clarified that the

observations made herein in no manner shall be construed to mean an

expression of opinion on merits of the case.