1. The petitioner informs that before filing of this writ petition, he had filed a petition in the Hon'ble Apex Court bearing writ petition No. C-89 of 2005, Dr. Subramanian Swamy v. Election Commission of India and Ors. and the same was dismissed in-limine on 11.04.2005 and accordingly the instant writ petition has been preferred under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 2. The conspectus of the facts are as under: 3. It is alleged that on 3.04.2004 in terms of the directions, respondent No. 3 filed an affidavit (annexure-2) before the Returning Officer of Raibareilly Constituency from where she had decided to context the Parliamentary election, and in the process, she indicated her educational qualification as under: 4. The petitioner claims that the information is false and he could come to know about the same through media. The petitioner made a representation (annexure-3) to the Chief Election Commissioner. Thereafter on 1.7.2004, respondent No. 1 forwarded the complaint to the Returning Officer concerned for proper action. Respondent No. 2 thereafter fixed a date 8.10.2004 for personal meeting. The petitioner submitted written submissions (annexure-8) annexing therewith copies of following documents: 5. Thus it is contended that the respondent No. 3 was persisting in her false statement of educational qualifications, amounting to commission of offences under Sections 177, 181 and 191 read with Section 193 of the Indian Penal Code. Thereafter the petitioner pursued the matter at the level of Chief Election Commissioner, respondent No. 1 and met with all the three Election Commissioners. On 12.01.2005, respondent No. 1 wrote to the respondent No. 2 (annexure-13) directing that a copy of the order may be furnished to the petitioner. On 19.01.2005, the petitioner received a registered post letter dated 15.01.2005 from respondent No. 1 enclosing a copy of an order dated 23.10.2004 (annexure P-1) passed by respondent No. 1 rejecting the petitioner's application. For convenience, it is reproduced as under: 6. The applicant was given an opportunity of personal hearing on 8th October, 2004. Heard the applicant and perused the documents submitted. The main contention of applicant is that Ms. Sonia Gandhi had wrongly mentioned in affidavit about her education at Lennox Cook School, University of Cambridge, U.K. The applicant had attached a xerox copy of affidavit filed, xerox letters from one Mr. David McCarthy addressed to Mr. Jai Kumar and Mr. B.Rathor (no details of identity mentioned) dated November 2001 and transcripted copy of letter from one Dr. E.S.Leedhan- Green addressed to Mr. A. Ghosh (no details of identity mentioned) dated September 1992. 7. The applicant had claimed that Ms. Sonia Gandhi had willfully made a false declaration on oath to mislead the voters about her high educational qualification. The application and accompanying documents were carefully examined by me. The applicant has not filed any affidavit nor has any personal knowledge about this matter. It is note worthy that Ms. Sonia Gandhi has filed a sworn affidavit regarding which no complaint was received at the time of election. Moreover, in her affidavit she has simply mentioned "Certificate in English from Lennox Cook School, Cambridge University, completed in 1965" which is a course in English language proficiency and not about any degree or advanced educational qualification, hence the argument of misleading the voters about high educational qualification is not tenable. Transcript copy of letter of Dr. Leedham-Green along with application itself mentions that she has studied in a language school in Cambridge. Since there is no documentary evidence or any other evidence to support the application, therefore, it is rejected. 8. According to the petitioner, the above order makes no finding at all on the petitioner's complaint i.e. whether the respondent No. 3 had willfully made a false declaration on oath, but it holds that "the argument of misleading voters about high educational qualification" is not tenable. Thereafter on 19.01.2005, the petitioner wrote a letter to the respondent No. 1 enquiring whether an appeal lay, to which respondent No. 1 replied that no appeal lay to the Election Commission. 9. The petitioner filed petition C-89 of 2005 before the Hon'ble Apex Court, challenging the aforesaid order dated 23.10.2004 passed by the Returning Officer for 19-Raebareli Parliamentary Constituency. By its order dated 11.04.2005 (annexure-18) the Hon'ble Apex Court dismissed the same. The order reads as under: 10. The petitioner claims that the respondent Nos. 1 and 2 are not carrying out their statutory duties, to the detriment of the public interest and Rule of Law. It affects purity in public life and is brazenly violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 11. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid inaction and the order dated 15.1.2005 the petitioner is approaching this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India on the following grounds: D. The petitioner by himself can not approach the Court with a complaint of a perjury against respondent No. 3 because of the terms of Section 195 of the Code of criminal Procedure 1973. Accordingly the petitioner is helpless to proceed unless a direction is given to the respondents No. 1 and 2 to proceed in the matter. The attitude and inaction of the concerned respondents is violative of article 14 of the Constitution and the Rule of Law and the only remedy left is a public interest litigation to invoke the powers of the High Court, to ensure that law is properly enforced and the investigation/prosecuting agencies perform their duties according to law. The Hon'ble Apex Court has so held in a catena of decisions notably in the cases of the Vineet Narain , Anukul Chandra Pradhan and Sushil Kumar Modi . E. The respondents No. 1 and 2 have overlooked the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Union of India v. Association for Democratic Reforms . F. The respondents No. 1 and 2 have acted in sheer disregard in ensuring free, fair and impartial elections. 12. Consequently, the impugned order dated 23.10.2004 passed by respondent No. 2 (annexure 1) is liable to be quashed and a direction in the nature of mandamus commanding respondents 1 and 22 to formally institute a complaint case before the competent court against the respondent No. 3, be issued. 13. Thereafter the petitioner filed a copy of petition No. C-89 of 2005 filed before Hon'ble the Supreme Court of India (annexure P-14), the order dated 23.10.2004 , referred to above , was also filed and prayed for a direction in the nature of mandamus directing the respondent No. 1, the Election Commission of India through its Secretary and respondent No. 2 the District Election Officer/District Magistrate to file a formal complaint before the court concerned and also to pass an order laying down direction providing for recourse in case the Returning Officer refuses to file such complaint. 14. Thus, to sum up both the petitions, the impugned order dated 23.10.2004 (annexure-1 to the writ petition) is under fire and the petitioner claims its quashing and further seeks a direction for lodging a complaint against respondent No. 3. 15. We have heard the petitioner in person and Dr. Ashok Nigam, Senior Advocate appearing for the respondents. On behalf of respondent No. 1, it has been argued with vehemence that the instant petition as 'Public Interest Litigation' is not maintainable as the same has been registered as Misc. writ petition and even if for arguments' sake it is treated as a Public Interest Litigation, still the petition could not be maintainable as per norms and parameters set for maintaining a 'Public Interest Litigation' by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The petitioner does not have locus to file the same even as a Public Interest Litigation for the following reasons: Learned Counsel for respondent No. 1 has vehemently argued that in view of the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Gauruvayoor Devaswom Managing Committee and Anr. v. C.K. Rajan and Ors. , the petition as Public Interest Litigation is not maintainable. The relevant paragraphs 41, 46, 50, 61 and 67 are quoted as below: The Court is constitutionally bound to protect the fundamental rights of such disadvantaged people so as to direct the State to fulfil its constitutional promises. (See S.P. Gupta v. Union of India 1981 Supp SCC 87, People's Union for Democratic Rights v. Union of India , Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India and Janata Dal v. H.S. Chowdhary .) (ii) Issues of public importance, enforcement of fundamental rights of a large number of the public vis-e-vis the constitutional duties and functions of the State, if raised, the Court treats a letter or a telegram as a public interest litigation upon relaxing procedural laws as also the law relating to pleadings. (See Charles Sobraj v. Supdt., Central Jail and Hussainara Khatoon (I) v. Home Secy., State of Bihar .) (iii) Whenever injustice is meted out to a large number of people, the Court will not hesitate in stepping in. Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India as well as the International Conventions on Human Rights provide for reasonable and fair trial. In Maneka Sanjay Gandhi v. Rani Jethmalani it was held: (SCC p.169, para 2) 2. Assurance of a fair trial is the first imperative of the dispensation of justice and the central criterion for the court to consider when a motion for transfer is made is not the hypersensitivity or relative convenience of a party or easy availability of legal services or like mini-grievances. Something more substantial, more compelling, more imperiling, from the point of view of public justice and its attendant environment, is necessitous if the court is to exercise its power of transfer. This is the cardinal principle although the circumstances may be myriad and vary from case to case. We have to test the petitioner's grounds on this touchstone bearing in mind the rule that normally the complainant has the right to choose any court having jurisdiction and the accused cannot dictate where the case against him should be tried. Even so, the process of justice should not harass the parties and from that angle the court may weigh the circumstances. (See also Dwarka Prasad Agarwal v. AB.D. Agarwal ) (iv) The common rule of locus standi is relaxed so as to enable the Court to look into the grievances complained on behalf of the poor, the depraved (sic), the illiterate and the disabled who cannot vindicate the legal wrong or legal injury caused to them for any violation of any constitutional or legal right. [see Fertilizer Corpn. Kamgar Union (Regd.) v. Union of India 198, 1 SCC 568, S.P. Gupta, People's Union for Democratic Rights, D.C.Wadhwa(Dr) v. State of Bihar and BALCO Employees' Union (Regd.) v. Union of India ]. (v) When the Court is prima facie satisfied aqbout variation of any constitutional right of a group of people belonging to the disadvantaged category, it may not allow the State or the Government from raising the question as to the maintainability of the petition. (See Bandhua Mukti Morcha). (vi) Although procedural laws apply to PIL cases but the question as to whether the principles of res judicata or principles analogous thereto would apply depends on the nature of the petition as also facts and circumstances of the case. [See Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra v. State of U.P. 1989 Supp (1) SCC 504 and Forward Construction Co. v. Prabhat Mandal (Regd. ) (1986) 1 SCC 100]. (vii) The dispute between two warring groups purely in the realm of private law would not be allowed to be agitated as a public interest litigation. (See Ramsharan Autyanuprasi v. Union of India 1989 Supp (1) SCC 251. (viii) However, in an appropriate case, although the petitioner might have moved a court in his private interest and for redressal of personal grievances, the Court in furtherance of the public interest may treat it necessary to enquire into the state of affairs of the subject of litigation in the interest of justice. (see Shivajirao Nilangekar Patil v. Dr. Mahesh Madhav Gosavi . (ix) The Court in special situations may appoint a Commission, or other bodies for the purpose of investigating into the allegations and finding out facts. It may also direct management of a public institution taken over by such Committee. (See Bandhua Mukti Morcha, Rakesh Chandra Narayan v. State of Bihar 1989 Supp(1) SCC 644 and A.P. Pollution Control Board v. Prof. M.V.Nayudu .) 
 

In Sachidanand Pandey v. state of W.B. this Court held: (SCC pp.334-35, para 61) 61. It is only when courts are apprised of gross violation of fundamental rights by a group or a class action on when basic human rights are invaded or when there are complaints of such acts as shock the judicial conscience that the courts, especially this Court, should leave aside procedural shackles and hear such petitions and extend its jurisdiction under all available provisions for remedying the hardships and miseries of the needy, the underdog and the neglected. I will be second to one in extending help when such help is required. But this does not mean that the doors of this Court are always open for anyone to walk in. It is necessary to have some self- imposed restraint on public interest litigants. In Janata Dal v. H.S. Chowdhary this Court opined: (SCC p.348, para 109) 109. It is thus clear that only a person acting bona fide and having sufficient interest in the proceeding of PIL will alone have a locus standi and can approach the court to wipe out the tears of poor and needy, suffering from violation of their fundamental rights, but not a person for personal gain or private profit or political motive or any oblique consideration. Similarly, a vexatious petition under the colour of PIL brought before the court for vindicating any personal grievance, deserves rejection at the threshold. The Court will not ordinarily transgress into a policy. It shall also take utmost care not to transgress its jurisdiction while purporting to protect the rights of the people from being violated. In Narmada Bachao Andolan v. Union of India it was held: (SCC pp.762-63, paras 229 & 232) 229. It is now well settled that the courts, in the exercise of their jurisdiction, will not transgress into the field of policy decision. Whether to have an infrastructural project or not and what is the type of project to be undertaken and how it has to be executed, are part of policy-making process and the courts are ill-equipped to adjudicate on a policy decision so undertaken. The court, no doubt, has a duty to see that in the undertaking of a decision, no law is violated and people's fundamental rights are not transgressed upon except to the extent permissible under the Constitution. Even then any challenge to such a policy decision must be before the execution of the project is undertaken. Any delay in the execution of the project means overrun in costs and the decision to undertake a project, if challenged after its execution has commenced, should be thrown out at the very threshold on the ground of laches if the petitioner had the knowledge of such a decision and could have approached the court at that time. Just because a petition is termed as a PIL does not mean that ordinary principles applicable to litigation will not apply. Laches is one of them. 232. While protecting the rights of the people from being violated in any manner utmost care has to be taken that the court does not transgress its jurisdiction. There is, in our constitutional framework a fairly clear demarcation of powers. The court has come down heavily whenever the executive has sought to impinge upon the court's jurisdiction. (x) The Court would ordinarily not step out of the known areas of judicial review. The High Courts although may pass an order for doing complete justice to the parties, they do not have a power akin to Article 142 of the Constitution of India. (ix) Ordinarily, the High Court should not entertain a writ petition by way of public interest litigation questioning the constitutionality or validity of a statute or a statutory rule. 52. This Court in BALCO Employees' Union (Regd.) succinctly opinied: (SCC pp. 3767-77, paras 77-80). 77. Public interest litigation, or PIL as it is more commonly known, entered the Indian judicial process in 1970. It will not be incorrect to say that it is primarily the judges who have innovated this type of litigation as there was dire need for it. At that stage, it was intended to vindicate public interest where fundamental and other rights of the people who were poor, ignorant or in socially or economically disadvantageous position and were unable to seek legal redress were required to be espoused. PIL was not meant to be adversarial in nature and was to be cooperative and collaborative effort of the parties and the court so as to secure justice for the poor and the weaker sections of the community who were not in a position to protect their own interests. Public interest litigation was intended to mean nothing more than what words themselves said viz. 'litigation in the interest of the public'. 78. While PIL initially was invoked mostly in cases connected with the relief to the people and the weaker sections of the society and in areas where there was violation of human rights under Article 21 , but with the passage of time, petitions have been entertained in other spheres. Prof. S.B. Sathe has summarized the extent of the jurisdiction which has now been exercised in the following words: 79. There is, in recent years, a feeling which is not without any foundation that public interest litigation is now tending to become publicity interest litigation or private interest litigation and has a tendency to be counterproductive. 80. PIL is not a pill or a panacea for all wrongs. It was essentially meant to protect basic human rights of the weak and the disadvantaged and was a procedure which was innovated where a public-spirited person files a petition in effect on behalf of such persons who on account of poverty, helplessness or economic and social disabilities could not approach the court for relief. There have been, in recent times, increasingly instances of abuse of PIL. Therefore, there is a need to reemphasize the parameters within which PIL can be resorted to by a petitioner and entertained by the court. This aspect has come up for consideration before this Court and all we need to do is to recapitulate and re-emphasize the same. 58. We have also not come across any case so far where the functions required to be performed by statutory functionaries had been rendered redundant by a court by issuing directions upon usurpation of statutory power. The right of a person belonging to a particular religious denomination may sometimes fall foul of Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution of India. Only whence the fundamental right of a person is infringed by the State an action in relation thereto may be justified. Any right other than the fundamental rights contained in Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution of India may either flow from a statute or from the customary laws. Indisputably, a devotee will have a cause of action to initiate an action before the High Court when his right under statutory law is violated. He may also have a cause of action by reason of action or inaction on the part of the State or a statutory authority; an appropriate order is required to be passed or a direction is required to be issued by the High Court. In some cases, a person may feel aggrieved in his individual capacity, but the public at large may not. 61. In State of W.B. v. Nuruddin Mallick it has been held: (SCC pp. 152-53, para 28) 28. It is not in dispute in this case that after the management sent its letter dated 6-8-1992 for the approval of its 31 staff viz. both teaching and non-teaching staff, both the District Inspector of Schools and the Secretary of the Board sought for certain information through their letters dated 21-9-1992. Instead of sending any reply, the management filed the writ petition in the High Court, leading to passing of the impugned orders. Thus, till this date the appellant authorities have not yet exercised their discretion. Submission for the respondents was that this Court itself should examine and decide the question in issue based on the material on record to set at rest the long-standing issue. We have no hesitation to decline such a suggestion. The courts can either direct the statutory authorities, where it is not exercising its discretion, by mandamus to exercise its discretion, or when exercised, to see whether it has been validly exercised. It would be inappropriate for the Court to substitute itself for the statutory authorities to decide the matter. 67. Mr. Subbao Rao referred to N.M.Thomas for the proposition that court is also a "State" within the meaning of Article 12 but that would not mean that in a given case the court shall assume the role of the executive government of the State. Statutory functions are assigned to the State by the legislature and not by the court. The court while exercising its jurisdiction ordinarily must remind itself about the doctrine of separation of powers which, however, although does not mean that the court shall not step in any circumstance whatsoever but the court while exercising its power must also remind itself about the rule of self-restraint. The court, as indicated hereinbefore, ordinarily is reluctant to assume the functions of the statutory functionaries. It allows them to perform their duties at the first instance. Learned Counsel for the respondents has also placed reliance on a decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in Janata Dal v. H.S.Chowdhary and Ors. wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has laid down the criteria for entertaining PIL, which reads as under: It has further been urged that the tenor of the petition leaves no room for doubt that the instant writ petition has been preferred by the petitioner with extraneous motivation or for glare of publicity break the queue muffing his face by wearing the mask of Public Interest Litigation. The petition is frivolous and it is a criminal waste of valuable time of the Courts. Accordingly, it is not maintainable. Elaborating his arguments, learned Counsel stated that in Dattaraj Nathuji Thaware, Appellant v. State of Maharashtra and Ors. the Hon'ble Supreme Court has laid emphasis that PIL should be used for delivering social justice to the citizens. In other words, it should be exercised for redressal of genuine public wrong or public injury but at the same it should not be allowed to abused for oblique considerations or improper motives. It would be used to reproduce paragraphs 8,9,11 and 12 of the above referred case: Public interest litigation is a weapon which has to be used with great care and circumspection and the judiciary has to be extremely careful to see that behind the beautiful veil of public interest an ugly private malice, vested interest and/or publicity- seeking is not lurking. It is to be used as an effective weapon in the armoury of law for delivering social justice to citizens. The attractive brand name of public interest litigation should not be used for suspicious products of mischief. It should be aimed at redressal of genuine public wrong or public injury and not publicity-oriented or founded on personal vendetta. As indicated above, court must be careful to see that a body of persons or a member of the public, who approaches the court is acting bona fide and not for personal gain or private motive or political motivation or other oblique consideration. The court must not allow its process to be abused for oblique considerations. Some persons with vested interest indulge in the pastime of meddling with judicial process either by force of habit or from improper motives. Often they are actuated by a desire to win notoriety or cheap popularity. The petitions of such busybodies deserve to be thrown out by rejection at the threshold, and in appropriate cases, with exemplary costs. Lexically the expression PIL means a legal action initiated in a Court of law for enforcement of public interest or general interest or in which the public or a class of the community have pecuniary interest or some interest by which their legal rights or liabilities are effected. Thus, the concept of PIL which has been and is being fostered by judicial activism has become an increasingly important one setting up valuable and respectable records specially in the Arena of Constitutional and legal treatment for the un-representated and under represented. 24. PIL needs a self imposed judicial restriction, especially when the grievance exposed does not adversely affect the large number of citizens who on account of innumerable reasons, like poverty, etc., cannot approach the Court to ventilate their grievances. Before the public interest jurisdiction is invoked, the Court is ordinarily expected to be satisfied that there is some element of public interest, that the transaction impugned involves malafides, and that there is a need for balancing the consequences of the public good with the act of the State. Public interest litigation should not ordinarily be permitted as an adventurous freak in Court. The Courts should shun the temptation of litigant to achieve political goals or personal gains. 25. Before we grapple with the issue involved in the present case, we feel it necessary to consider the issue regarding public interest aspect. Public Interest Litigation which has now come to occupy an important field in the administration of law should not be "publicity interest litigation" or "politics interest litigation" or for moving the courts with oblique motive for personal gains. It should be properly regulated and should be averted. It should not be allowed to become a tool in unscrupulous hands to release vendetta and wreak vengeance as well. A person acting bona fide and having sufficient interest in the proceeding of public interest litigation will alone have a locus standi and can approach the court to wipe out violation of fundamental rights and genuine infraction of statutory provisions, but not for personal gain or private profit or political motive or any oblique consideration. The petitioner has failed to satisfy that he was genuinely concerned in the public interest. 26. We now proceed to deal with the arguments advanced by the rival parties. As stated earlier this is a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. It empowers the High Court to issue directions or orders or writs for the enforcement of any of the legal rights. The petitioner does not seek to enforce any of his rights nor does he complain that any of his legal/fundamental right is violated. Yet there is another aspect of this case. It is not disputed to the petitioner that neither he had contested the election against Smt. Sonia Gandhi nor he was elector, but as a third party he has filed this petition styled as Public Interest Litigation. In this context, we find that the Hon'ble Apex Court had deprecated such Public Interest Litigation commenced by a third party. In S.P. Gupta v. Union of India 1981 Suppl SCC 87, Hon'ble Apex Court held as under: 27. We find that the petitioner is a total stranger to the proceedings commenced before the District Election Officer. He cannot be permitted to question the correctness of the order passed by a competent authority. If he is permitted, every person could challenge order passed by any court or tribunal even if the parties do not desire to do so and are inclined to acquiesce in the decision. 28. Neither under the provisions of the Code nor under any other statute a third party stranger is permitted to question the correctness of order passed by a competent court or tribunal. Being the third party the stranger- the petitioner has no right to seek redress by questioning the legality, validity or correctness of the order passed by the District Election Officer/Returning Officer, Raebareli. It is not the case of the petitioner that the aggrieved party is a minor, an insane person or is suffering from any other disability which the law recognizes as sufficient to permit another person, eg. next friend, to move the Court on his behalf. It is also not the case of the petitioner that any of the aggrieved party, who is under some disability recognized by law has asked him to question the decision of the District Election Officer respondent No. 2. We feel that it would be unsafe and hazardous that at the behest of the third party the matter, which has already been concluded between the parties, should be reopened. 29. We are of the considered view that no stranger can approach this Court under Article 226 on the basis of personal philosophy, without disclosing any legal disability to the interested party recognized by the law. 30. Keeping in view the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Karamjeet Singh v. Union of India AIR 1993 SCC 284 and Ashok Kumar Pandey v. State of Bengal AIR 2004 SCC 280, the petition is devoid of any merit. The petition cannot be treated as Public Interest Litigation and the petitioner being the third party and stranger cannot be permitted to question the correctness of the order passed by the District Election Officer as referred to above. 31. After having a look over the whole issue, we find that the contention of the petitioner as reflected in the petition that the instant case should be treated as Public Interest Litigation, is devoid of any merit and we hold that he has no locus-standi to file the instant petition styled as Public Interest Litigation. 32. It is not a dispute between the parties that the petitioner has filed one petition on the same cause of action under Article 32 of Constitution of India, copy of which is on record. The Hon'ble Apex Court after hearing learned Counsel for the parties dismissed the same and passed the orders as contained in Annexure No. 18 to the writ petition; 33. After dismissal of the aforesaid petition by the Hon'ble Apex Court, the petitioner has not filed any review petition. It was open to the petitioner to file review and in case of its dismissal a curative petition. He has failed to point out as to why the same was not done. At his juncture, we may clarify that before Hon'ble Apex Court Annexure P-14 (which is annexure No. 1 to the instant writ petition), the order passed by respondent No. 2 dated 23.10.2004 was challenged. In the given circumstances, we find that neither review was filed nor any curative petition was filed nor it is stated before this Court that any such petition is pending before the Hon'ble Apex Court. Accordingly, finality is to be attached to the order passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court on 11.4.2005. Even at this stage, the petitioner has not pressed before this Court that he is inclined to file such petition before the Hon'ble Apex Court. Consequently, we have to proceed with the matter with the assumption that the order passed by Hon'ble Apex Court has become final as the same has not so far been challenged before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 34. In the instant case, the petitioner is carrying his point of view firstly before the Election Commission, then before the Returning Officer Raebareli and then before the Hon'ble Apex Court, and after the verdict of the Hon'ble Supreme Court (Annexure No. 18) as conclusive, he has filed this petition on the same cause of action challenging the order of Returning Officer before this Court. Dr. Nigam appearing for respondent No. 1 has further urged that the Hon'ble Apex Court considered the scope of such petition in the case of S.P. Anand, Indore v. H.D. Devegowda and Ors. wherein it has been emphasized that the process of the Court should not be allowed to be abused by a person who desires to persist with his point of view by filing series of petitioner. Paragraph 18 of the report reads as under: 35. Relying upon the decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in State of Maharashtra v. Ishwar Piraji Kalpatri and Ors. (1996) 1 Supreme Court Cases 542, learned Counsel for the respondent argued with vehemence that the petitioner being a party to the earlier proceedings cannot be allowed at this stage at least to take a chance and if he gets the impression that he will not succeed to seek permission to withdraw the original proceedings, obviously with a view to re-agitate the same contentions, that has attained the finality by a highest court i.e. the Apex Court in different proceedings. 36. We agree with the contention of the learned Counsel for the respondents that the judicial discipline requires that the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court should be obeyed and abide by the orders of the Hon'ble Apex Court. At this juncture it would be useful to reproduce relevant paragraphs of the following pronouncements. Chhavi Mehrotra v. Director General, Health Service 1995 Supp (3) SCC 434, para 1 which reads as under: 37. Abbai Maligai Partnership Firm and Anr. v. K. Santhakumaran and Ors. (1998) 7 SCC 387, in para 4 of which it has been held as under: 38. State of U.P. v. Kailash Nath Agarwal and Ors.. Relevant para 15 reads as under: 39. Union of India v. Nanak Singh . Relevant para 5 of which is reproduced as under: 40. Thus, in view of the pronouncements of the Hon'ble Apex Court, not only the judicial discipline requires but it is a constitutional obligation on this Court to obey and abide by the orders of the Hon'ble Apex Court. Consequently, the judicial discipline does not warrant any interference under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, especially in the circumstances when the petitioner had choice to move before the Hon'ble Apex Court by filing a review petition or a curative petition, but with no stretch of imagination, this Court has any power to form a different opinion than what has already been formed by the Hon'ble Apex Court and the finality has been attached to it by not agitating the same by the petitioner. 41. To sum up, we hold that after dismissal of the petition by the Hon'ble Apex Court the instant petition on the same ground under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for seeking a discretionary relief cannot be entertained by this Court vide judgment in Satrucharla Vijaya Rama Raju v. Nimmaka Jaya Raju and Ors. . Thus on this count, the petition is not maintainable. Further, we find that after decision in the writ petition subsequent suit or proceedings on the same subject is also barred vide Union of India v. Nanak Singh (supra) and State of Punjab v. Dua Das Kaushal (supra). Yet there is another aspect of this case. The jurisdiction of entertaining a writ petition under Article 32 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and another Under Article 226 by the High Court, both are plenary in nature. The petitioner chose to approach the Hon'ble Supreme Court under Article 32 of the constitution of India and the Hon'ble Apex Court upon hearing, refused to entertain the petition and dismissed it. On the same cause of action only by adding a prayer is not maintainable before this Court and the petitioner cannot be permitted to do the same vide decision in Common Cause, A Registered Society v. Union of India and Ors. , para 179 of which is reproduced as under: 42. The petitioner has strenuously argued that the petition under Article 226 is maintainable in this case for the reasons that the Hon'ble Apex Court dismissed the petition in-limine and it is a settled principle of law that if petition has been dismissed in-limine then a fresh petition has been filed and the second petition would not be barred by res judicata. In support of his contention, petitioner has placed reliance on the following decisions of the Hon'ble Apex Court: (c) H.M.Seervai : Constinutional Law of India: 3rd Ed. Vol. II 16.243. Do principles of res judicata, actual or constructive, apply, if a petition is dismissed in limne without passing a speaking order? According to decided cases, the answer is, "No". In Daryao's Case it was observed that if the petition was dismissed in limne without a speaking order, then such a dismissal could not be treated as creating the bar of res judicata. In workmen, C.P. Trust v. Board of Trustees , it was held that the principles of res judicata, and constructive res judicata, had been rightly applied to proceedings other than suits on the ground of public policy. However, it would be stretching the doctrine of constructive res judicata too far to say that the dismissal of a special leave petition under Article 136 in limne by an unspeaking order would involve a rejection of all the grounds urged n the petition. Consequently, a separate proceeding urging the very same grounds- like a writ petition under Article 226 was not barred on the principle of constructive res judicata. The principle was also affirmed in Ahmedabad Mfg. & Calico Prtg. Co. v. workmen. In this case, the Supreme court had dismissed a Special Leave petition under Article 136 , saying, "upon hearing Counsel the Court allowed the special leave petition to be withdrawn." The Supreme Court held that the Appellants were not barred by res judicata from maintaining a petition under Article 226. The High Court had perused the affidavits of parties to ascertain the circumstances under which the present appellants were permitted to withdraw the petition. The Supreme Court held that it was not a correct approach; the Supreme Court order had to be read as it stood. If the court intended to dismiss the petition at the threshold, it would have said so. In the result the appeal was allowed. ( d) Kunhayammed and Ors. v. State of Kerala , para-20 of which is reproduced as under: ( g) Collector of Customs, Bombay v. Elephanta Oil & Industries Ltd., Bombay of which reads as under: 15. " It is to be stated that the Tribunal relied upon its earlier decision by observing that the SLP against the said decision was dismissed by this Court summarily. But it is well -settled law that in case where SLP is dismissed without assigning any reason, that order would not constitute a binding precedent." ( h) Arati Ray Choudhury v. Union of India and Ors. , para-11 of which is quoted below: The decision in Forward Construction Co. v. Prabhat Mandal (Regd.), Andheri , further clarified the position by holding that an adjudication is conclusive and final not only as to the actual matter determined but as to every other matter which the parties might and ought to have litigated and have had decided as incidental to or essentially connected with subject matter of the litigation and every matter coming into the legitimate purview of the original action both in respect of he matters of claim and defence. Thus, the principle of constructive res judicata underlying Explanation IV of Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure was applied to writ case. We accordingly hold that the writ case is fit to be dismissed on the ground of res judicata. ( iii) Har Swarup, v. The General Manager, Central Railway and Ors.. Relevant para 16 is reproduced as under: ( vi) Devilal Modi v. Sales Tax Officer Ratlam and Ors. , relevant para 12 of which is reproduced as below: 12. "The present proceedings illustrate how a citizen who has been ordered to pay a tax can postpone the payment of the tax by prolonging legal proceedings interminably. We have already seen that in the present case the appellants sought to raise additional points when he brought his appeal before this Court by special leave; that is to say, he did not take all the points in the Writ Petition and thought of taking new points in appeal. When leave was refused to him by this Court to take those points in appeal, he filed a new petition in the High Court and took those points, and finding that the High Court had decided against him on the merits of those points, he has come to this Court; but that is not all. At the hearing of this appeal, he has filed another petition asking for leave from this Court to take some more additional points and that shows that if constructive res judicata is not applied to such proceedings a party can file as many writ petitions as he likes and take one or two points every time. That clearly is opposed to considerations of public policy on which res judicata is based and would mean harassment and hardship to the opponent. Besides, if such a course is allowed to be adopted, the doctrine of finality of judgments pronounced by this Court would also be materially affected. We are, therefore, satisfied that the second writ petition filed by the appellant in the present case is barred by constructive res judicata. 43. Learned Counsel for the respondents has further urged that although the Hon'ble Apex Court dismissed the petition by a short order without giving elaborate reasons, but the order was passed upon hearing the parties. Thus, it is not possible for anybody to interpose the words and meaning of the judgment. There is nothing in the order, which may even remotely indicate that the writ petition was not dismissed on merit. The Hon'ble Apex Court found no merit and after giving requisite hearing to the parties dismissed the petition. 44. It appears that on hearing the parties the Hon'ble Apex Court decided the case on merit and has not permitted the petitioner to approach the High Court under Article 226. Consequently, it is not possible to hold that the petition was dismissed in limine. Therefore, the assertion of the petitioner on the strength of the case laws cited by him does not lead to an impression that the petition was dismissed in limine. The rulings cited by the petitioner are on the point of dismissal of the petition in limine, which has no application to the facts of the case where petition was dismissed upon hearing the parties on merit. We are in full agreement with the argument of the learned Counsel for the respondent that the petition was dismissed on merits, accordingly rulings relied upon by the petitioner to support his contention that the instant petition under Article 226 is maintainable, are of no avail. Since the petition was dismissed on merit by Hon'ble Apex Court, that order has become final and the principles of res judicata would operate as per the law cited by the respondent No. 1 and the instant second petition before us is not maintainable. 45. In view of the sequence of events , referred to above , we find that the order dated 11.04.2005 passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court dismissing the petition was since passed on merits upon hearing the parties. Thus, all Courts in India are bound to follow the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court. General Principles of Law as laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court are in favour of every person including those who are not party to that order, while in this case the parties are the same. Thus, we are of the view that the petition was dismissed on merit upon hearing the parties. Accordingly, the decision shall be treated as precedent and is binding on this Court. Consequently, this petition is not maintainable being barred by the principles of res-judicata. 46. Even if for the arguments' sake it is presumed that the order of dismissal passed is treated as in-limine, this Court can take into consideration the relevant facts of the case and has to decide as to whether it was dismissed on merits or not. In Chandi Prasad Chokhani v. State of Bihar it has been held as under: 47. Thereafter, the Hon'ble Apex Court considered this scope in Union of India v. Nanak Singh (supra) and lastly in Abbai Maligai Partnership Firm and Anr. v. K.Santhakumaran and Ors. (1998) 7 SCC 387, para 4 of which is reproduced as under: 48. Upon consideration of the entire facts available on record and the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court, we are of the opinion that the cause of action, subject matter and pleadings of the parties are the same, accordingly the subsequent petition on this ground is barred by the principles of res judicata and is not maintainable. 49. It is also a settled principle of law that even if the petitioner had a locus standi to file a petition under Article 226 but the same can be lost by his conduct as held in Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation v. Balwant Regular Motor Service Amravati and Ors. of which is reproduced as under: 50. In view of this background, the petitioner's conduct is such that no interference is warranted under Article 226 of the Constitution, especially when the conduct of the petitioner debars him from seeking remedy of mandamus as being barred by principle of estoppels and acquiescence. 51. The instant petition has been filed revealing a bundle of facts. Para 8 of the writ petition contains the purported cause of action and the grounds. It has not been verified in the affidavit filed in support of the petition before this Court. This fact was pointed out to the petitioner, still the petitioner failed to amend his petition or file his affidavit to verify the contents of para 8 of the writ petition. Thus in absence of any affidavit, the contents of para 8 have to be ignored. Accordingly, we are of the view that the petitioner has not come with clean hands and the petition is liable to be dismissed on this count also. We further find that the affidavit which has been filed not in support of the main grounds of the petition, is misleading and accordingly on this count the petition is not tenable for hearing any more, vide Magan Lal Chhagan Lal Pvt. Ltd. v. Minucipal Corporation of Greater Bombay and Ors. and Mohinder Singh Gill v. The Chief Election Commissioner and Ors . 52. The petitioner has sought the relief under Article 226 of the Constitution of India challenging the order dated 23.10.2004 passed by Returning Officer, 19- Raebareli Lok Sabha Constituency, whereby his application for lodging of the complaint under Section 125A of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951 against opposite party No. 3 Smt. Sonia Gandhi was rejected and he has further sought a mandamus from this Court to direct the Returning Officer to lodge a criminal case against respondent No. 3. 53. Learned Counsel for respondent No. 1 has argued that the petitioner does not have any locus standi to file either application before the Returning Officer 19- Raebareli Lok Sabha Constituency, or the Election Commission as he was neither the elector of that constituency nor a candidate in the said election, which is not disputed by the petitioner. 54. The entire election process is a creature of the statue. It is a settled principle of law that Representation of Peoples Act read with conduct of Election Rules forms a complete code and no rights or duties beyond the same can be claimed by anyone, much less a totally stranger to the constituency vide Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner . 55. Thus, the process of election starts with the issuance of notification for holding election by the Election Commission of India and ends with the declaration of the result of that particular constituency. Sections 21 , 28 , 28A , 79(d) and 81 of the Representation of peoples Act, 1951 provide a complete scheme for holding election. The Returning Officer is appointed under Section 21 of the Act and his duties are given under Section 24 . For the sake of convenience Section 24 is reproduced as below: 56. Section 28 of the Act provides the duration of the appointment or continuance of the Returning Officer and its period and the period within which he holds the office. Section 28A provides that the Returning Officer and Polling Officer etc. shall be deemed to be on deputation to the Election Commission for the period commencing on and from the date of the notification calling for such election and ending with the date of declaration of the results of such election. However, Election Commission retains a skeleton machinery like District Election Officer in every District which co-ordinates and supervises all works in the District relating to the conduct of all elections such as preparation and revision of electoral rolls etc., but after declaration of the result of the election in a particular area he ceases to be a Returning Officer The candidate is required to give information including his/her educational qualifications for the information of the electors of the constituency. In case any elector considers that he/she was mislead by such an information, he/she can file such complaint before the Returning Officer. In the given case, no elector of the constituency or even a rival candidate filed a complaint that he/she was misled by the information of respondent No. 3 Smt. Sonia Gandhi about her educational qualifications filled in the relevant proforma. All the information about a candidate's backgrounds, his criminal antecedent, his properties including educational qualifications furnished to the electors of that particular constituency only. This information remains confined to the voters and other rival candidates and they have only cause of action to make a complaint about any incorrect information. The petitioner does not claim to come within that group. 57. The petitioner has pleaded that since according to him respondent No. 3 had incorrectly given her educational qualification, she is liable to be prosecuted under Section 125 of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951. However, as filing false information is an offence in which FIR can be lodged only by the public authority, therefore, he submitted a complaint before the Election Commission of India requesting them to take appropriate action under the Act. The petitioner was informed by the Election Commission on 01.07.2004 to the effect that the Returning Officer had already been directed to take appropriate action according to law, annexing therewith a general circular letter dated 02.06.2004. In this circular, Commission has pointed out to the Chief Electoral Officer of the States that in many cases candidates do not give the correct informations, on affidavits, especially in the part relating to the assets in such matter, the Commission pointed out that Section 125A of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951 deals with penal provisions for furnishing false information in the affidavit filed in terms of Section 33A and 171 of I.P.C. On receipt of reply from the Commission, the petitioner filed complaint before the Returning Officer, 19 Raebareli constituency, which was rejected on 23.10.2004 (Annexure No. 1). 58. The petitioner on being questioned by this Court as to whether the Returning Officer of the said constituency had become functus officio or not, conceded that the election result was declared much before filing of the complaint by him either before the Election Commission or before the Returning Officer. Thus in view of provisions of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951 , including Section 28 and various pronouncements of the Hon'ble Apex Court beginning right from constitutional Bench judgment in the case of N.P. Ponnuswami v. Returning Officer, Namakhal Constituency AIR. 1952 SC 64, and another constitutional Bench judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Mohinder Singh Gill 's case (supra) and a Division Bench judgment of this Court in Satya Deo Singh v. Chief Electoral Officer (Writ Petition No. 4221 (M/B) of 1999) decided on 27.09.1999, the period of holding office by the Returning Officer comes to an end after declaration of the result of a particular constituency. Consequently after declaration of the result of 19- Raebareli Constituency, the Returning Officer ceased to hold the office and became functus officio. Thus the Election Commission presumably desired that the Returning Officer on the complaint of the petitioner during the period of election should initiate action only if it continued to hold the office, that is why the word 'Returning Officer' has been used against the District Election Officer. It is not a matter of dispute that the District Election Officer has no such powers to take action under law on any act of omission or commission of the candidate as that is done before the Returning Officer only and he is the person who has been authorised by the Election Commission to take appropriate action accordingly. The petitioner himself wrote a letter on 01.07.2004 (Annexure No. 4) wherein he has written 'Returning Officer' and not the District Election Officer. Consequently, with no stretch of imagination, it can be held that after declaration of the result and in the light of Section 28A the Returning Officer retains his office and District Election Officer cannot be presumed to be Returning Officer, nor he can exercise any statutory power conferred on him by law. Section 80 of the Act provides that after the election is over the only mode of challenging the election of returned candidate be, by filing election petition before the appropriate forum by either of the contesting candidates in that election or the electors of that constituency and none else. The petitioner does not have any locus to file the application before the Returning Officer and in fact there was no Returning Officer and the District Election Officer could not hear such a complaint as it does not fall within his domain in view of Section 28A of the Act. The language of Section 28A is very clear and provides in specific words as under: 28A Returning Officer, presiding officer, etc. deemed to be on deputation to Election Commission - The Returning Officer, Assistant Returning Officer, Presiding Officer, Polling Officer and any other officer appointed under this Part, and any police officer designated for the time being by the State Government, for the conduct of any election shall be deemed to be on deputation to the Election Commission for the period commencing on and from the date of the notification calling for such election and ending with the date of declaration of the results of such election and accordingly, such officers shall, during that period, be subject to the control, superintendence and discipline of the Election Commission. 59. Thus, after the conclusion of the election and the declaration of the result all the authorities including the Returning Officer became functus officio under the provisions of Section 28A of the Act. Even the Election Commission does not possess any power or authority to act in respect of the already concluded election in violation of Section 80 of the Act. Thus, the application under Section 125A of the Act against respondent No. 3 appears to be not maintainable on this count. In paragraph 3 of the writ petition the petitioner has asserted that an offence under Section 125A of the Act is made out against respondent No. 3. 60. As a matter of fact, Section 125A provides a mandate that the candidate, who with intent to be elected in an election "gives false information which he knows or has reason to believe to be false" in his nomination paper delivered under Sub-section (1) of Section 33 or in his affidavit which is required to be delivered under Sub-section (2) of Section 33A , would be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both. It is pertinent to mention that the informations required under the above Sections or Rules, 4, 4-A or forms 2-A and Form 26 do not include affidavit or informations being furnished regarding educational qualification. In fact the requirement of giving educational qualifications also was imposed through circular of the Election Commission, but even if there is some inaccuracy in furnishing educational qualification, there is no provision in the Representation of Peoples Act or Rules for criminal prosecution. The requirement of circular does not form the statutory requirement under the Act and is certainly out of the scope and certainly does not come within the ambit of Section 125A and even if there is a violation, it does not make a candidate liable for prosecution. We further find that corrupt practices and electoral offences are separately dealt with under Part VII of the Act from Sections 123 to 138 , but these electoral offences also do not include any incorrect furnishing of educational qualification. Thus, furnishing of incorrect educational qualification does not come within the ambit of any penal provision of the Act. 61. Section 125A of the Act under which the petitioner is claiming that a criminal case be lodged against respondent No. 3 refers to the false/incorrect information furnished by the candidates under Section 33(1) and 33A(2) of the Act, with intent to mislead the electors and to win the election, which relates to the information given in the nomination form and regarding the criminal antecedents in a prescribed form which has been made mandatory, pursuant to the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court, reported in Union of India v. Association for Democratic Reforms (supra). 62. A bare reading of the Section reveals that it does not refer to the information regarding educational qualification, which used to be furnished by the candidates in a separate prescribed form. Consequently, we are not convinced that the claim of the petitioner for filing of criminal case under Section 125A of the Act against respondent No. 3, is tenable and the petitioner has misconstrued the remedy under Section 125A of the Representation of People Act. 63. We find that even for the arguments' sake, it is presumed that the petition is maintainable, the order dated 23.10.2004 passed by the District Election Officer/Returning Officer (Annexure No. 1) to the writ petition, impugned in this writ petition, is a speaking and a reasoned order. No material has been pcentered before this Court to demonstrate any illegality or to infer any abuse of process of law. 64. A plain reading of the impugned order reveals that the order is legal and valid on the facts placed by the petitioner before him. It appears that the Returning Officer, respondent No. 2 has passed it after considering the entire material on record and after affording an opportunity of being heard to the petitioner. The petitioner failed to establish a prima facie case before the Returning Officer for lodging a criminal case against respondent No. 3. He also failed to establish that the information furnished by respondent No. 3 regarding her educational qualification was incorrect much less false or fraudulent. The petitioner has failed to point out as to what evidence was placed before the officer concerned, and even before this Court there is nothing on record to show that any reliable evidence was led before the officer concerned to establish that information furnished by respondent No. 3 was incorrect or false. 65. The petitioner filed only photocopies of few letters written by unidentified persons. These papers are not admissible in evidence. These letters are said to have been written by some unidentified persons and were not even addressed to the complainant - petitioner Dr. Subramanian Swamy. It appears that whosoever may be the writer of those letters, he did not know as to what relevant information was being asked to verify or testify. They were not supplied with copy of the said form containing educational qualification of the respondent No. 3 and on which no question was asked from them as to whether this information is correct or not. The petitioner has failed to show that the person who allegedly made the enquiry was aware about the nature of the query. Consequently, photocopies of the copy of letters could not inspire confidence of the District Election Officer/ Returning Officer. 66. Further, we find that the petitioner has not filed those letters which he had sent to these persons so as to know of the query he was making about. The petitioner concealed the query, which he was making about. It transpires that the petitioner tried to put some leading question, that too, in a twisted and zig-zag manner. Thus, the papers filed by the petitioner are not clinching to the fact in issue. Consequently, they were not relied upon by respondent No. 2. 67. The petitioner has filed at page 44 of the writ petition a photocopy of the copy of the letter which was not signed by David McCarthy dated 28.11.2001, which is reproduced as under: 68. The next copy of the letter dated 21 November, 2001 filed at page No. 45 of the writ petition is reproduced below: 69. The copy of third letter dated 21 September, 1992 filed at page No. 46 of the writ petition is quoted as below: I am sorry to have to send so disappointing reply. Yours sincerely, Sd/- Dr. E.S.Leedham-Green 70. We have occasion to peruse the papers. It appears that David McCarthy on 28.11.2001 sent reply to Mr. Jay Kumar about Sonia Maino. The photocopy even does not reveal that it has been sent by David McCarthy. It is simply photocopy of the copy of the letter alleged to have been written by David McCarthy. Even the address of Sonia Maino is wanting. There is no explanation from the side of the petitioner as to why the original letters could not be produced and why since 21.9.1992 and onwards the petitioner and his associates remained dormant. On reappraisal of facts, we do not find any reason to rely on inadmissible evidence, which was rightly rejected by the respondent No. 2 Again, we find another letter dated 21.11.2001 written by the same person to Mr. B.Rathor unsigned and he has specifically referred that we have no record of the above named as having registered as a student at this University. It was desired in both the letters if you have any further information such as additional names, college attended or subjects studied, we would be happy to recheck our records. Consequently, on the basis of these two letters it cannot be concluded that the information furnished by the respondent No. 3 was false or incorrect because the writer of the letter himself wrote to two persons requiring additional information. We find another letter dated 21.09.1992, that too is a photocopy of the copy of the letter, which has also not been signed by the writer. This is also of no avail to the petitioner because it reveals that the School in question does not keep any record of its past student. Thus, this letter does not connect the educational qualification etc. of respondent No. 3. Moreover, we fail to understand why the letter dated 21.09.1992 has been filed with this petition after a lapse of 14 years while it is contended by respondent No. 1 that prior to this election, respondent No. 3 was contesting election and no such accusation was ever made before the Commission. 71. The petitioner has not disclosed the identity of these three persons, even their addresses have also not been shown. Photocopies of the copies of the letters, which are not even on stamp pad, without any address leaving space for address at the left, create a reasonable suspicion about the authenticity of these papers. The letter available at page 44 of the writ petition refers about the earlier fact dated 20.11.2001. There is no explanation as to why these documents were not filed and as to why the petitioner has not made any endeavour to verify the contents of the same from the authorities of Cambridge University, even the list of affiliated colleges have not been filed for the year 1965. The petitioner has not furnished any details as to how he came in contact with all these three persons and on which date he could procure these papers from them. Thus, we find that without any explanation as to why these documents were not filed to contradict the averments made in the nomination papers about the educational qualification, would lead to an impression that the things might not be as they are and that is why there is suppression of facts on this count. 72. The Court pointedly asked the petitioner as to why these letters were not filed in original but no convincing reply could be made. Neither before the Hon'ble Apex Court nor before this Court any supplementary affidavit has been filed that original documents are missing. Thus, in the aforesaid background we propose to consider the admissibility of these documents in the light of Indian Evidence Act, 1972 . Indian Evidence Act, 1972 , Chapter V deals with documentary evidence Sections 61 to 65 are relevant and they read as under: Explanation 1.- Where a document is executed in several parts, each part is primary evidence of the document. Where a document is executed in counterpart, each counterpart being executed by one or some of the parties only, each counterpart is primary evidence as against the parties executing it. Explanation 2.- Where a number of documents are all made by one uniform process, as in the case of printing, lithography, or photography, each is primary evidence of the contents of the rest; but where they are all copies of a common original, they are not primary evidence of the contents of the original. 63. Secondary evidence.- Secondary evidence means and includes- 64. Proof of documents by primary evidence.-Documents must be proved by primary evidence except in the cases herein after mentioned. 65. Cases in which secondary evidence relating to documents may be given.- Secondary evidence may be given of the existence, condition or contents of a document in the following cases- (a) when the originals shown or appears to be in the possession or power- of the person against whom the document is sought to be proved, or of any person out of reach of, or not subject to, the process of the Court, or of any person legally bound to produce it, and when, after the notice mentioned in Section 66, such person does not produce it; (b) when the existence, condition or contents of the original have been proved to be admitted in writing by the person against whom it is proved or by his representative in interest; (c) when the original has been destroyed or lost, or when the party offering evidence of its contents cannot, for any other reason not arising from his own default or neglect, produce it in reasonable time; In case (a), (c) and (d), any secondary evidence of the contents of the document is admissible. In case (b),the written admission is admissible. In case (e) or (f), a certified copy of the document, but no other kind of secondary evidence, is admissible. In case (g), evidence may be given as to the general result of the documents by any person who has examined them, and who is skilled in the examination of such documents. 73. Having regard to the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act , it transpires that the contents of documents may be proved either by primary or secondary evidence. Primary evidence means the document itself produced for the inspection of the Court. On the aforesaid analogy we find that the original documents have not so far been produced for inspection of the Court. Consequently these papers do not fall within the ambit of primary evidence. 74. Section 63 deals with the secondary evidence. It is not disputed that these papers are not certified copies as given under this provision. We further find that the copies, which are available on the record, are not made from the original by mechanical process, which in themselves ensures accuracy of the copy and compared with such copies. Furthermore, we find that in view of Section 63(1) for want of any attestation, it cannot be presumed that these papers are the copies made from or compared with original. Admittedly, these are not counter-parts of the documents as against the parties who did not execute them. These papers are not based on oral accounts of the contents of a document given by some person who has himself seen it. 75. Thus, these papers do not fall within the ambit of secondary evidence also. Even if it is presumed that these letters come within the ambit of secondary evidence then Section 65 is attracted. Secondary evidence can only be led in those cases where primary evidence is not available or cannot be given. Certain conditions have been laid down by Section 65 of the Evidence Act, where secondary evidence may be given of the existence, condition or contents of a document in the manner referred to above . In view of Section 65(a) it is not the case of the petitioner that a document in original is shown or appears to be in possession of a person against whom the document is sought to be proved or it is out of the reach of the petitioner. No effort was made to procure it, who was in possession of those documents. We further find that these papers are not public documents. 76. Thus, in these circumstances these papers cannot be taken into consideration as secondary evidence. These papers are inadmissible in evidence under the provisions of Indian Evidence Act . Our view is strengthen by a Division Bench decision of this Court in Sri Hemant Kumar Agrahari v. Smt. Laskhi Devi 2003(21) LCD 1258, relevant para- 6 of which is reproduced below: 77. Consequently, we find that these papers, which are neither on the letter heads nor the photocopies of the original, but are simply so called copies from original, are available on record. The petitioner has also not furnished any explanation as to why he could not obtain the information from the University concerned and as to why these papers are being used after the year 1991 and 2003 in this case. He has also not obtained any letter from the person from whom he got the copies. Consequently, it appears that the corn has lost in the chaff and consequently there is suppression of material facts throwing light over these papers and thus on this count alone neither the Court can assume them genuine nor worth consideration as they are not covered under the ambit of Chapter V of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . 78. Yet there is another aspect in this case. The petitioner has filed a copy of the letter sent by him to the Speaker Lok Sabha on May 10, 2002 which reads as under: 79. A bare perusal of this letter leaves no room for doubt that the petitioner requested that the matter be forwarded to the Chairman of the Ethics Committee for determination of suitable reprimand on the ground that respondent No. 3 had not studied in any college any where in the world. It was also referred that Ms. Sonia Gandhi had committed a breach of ethics by falsely claiming in the 'Lok Sabha's who's who' that she had been educated at the University of Cambridge. The petitioner has failed to point out the outcome of his letter. Thus, it may be presumed that the matter is still pending before the Speaker of Lok Sabha. The petitioner has not made any request and has also not sought any relief from this Court that Speaker may be directed to look into the matter or to decide the matter pending before him. Consequently, now it is not open for the petitioner to file the instant petition on the ground that Ms. Sonia Gandhi has committed a breach of ethics by falsely claiming that she had been educated at the University of Cambridge. 80. The petitioner on the basis of news item states that it was mentioned that the word 'University' in the Lok Sabha publication was a 'typographical error'. It is a settled proposition of law that news cannot be relied upon without further corroboration of evidence which is wanting in this case. It is a cardinal principle of law that suspicion howsoever grave may be, it cannot take the shape of proof. 81. The petitioner has failed to prove beyond the point of suspicion that a respondent No. 3 deliberately made a false statement or made a false averment about her educational qualification. The onus of proof lies over the petitioner to establish the case against respondent No. 3, for which at present he has no locus. It further appears that the petitioner has made allegation without proving the same. Thus, on the basis of the papers available on the record, it transpires that the petitioner might have filed the petition with collateral purpose without having any lis in the matter. As regard to the argument of the petitioner that the respondent No. 3 has given a wrong impression giving an impression that she had studied in Cambridge University and obtained high education from there. In this connection, we would like to reproduce the entry made by the respondent No. 3 in the form of declaration: Sd-Sonia Gandhi 82. After looking to the above contents, it transpires that the respondent No. 3 had not claimed that she actually studied in the University of Cambridge. It appears that she got certificate in English from Lennox Cook School, University of Cambridge, completed in 1965. It does not mean that respondent No. 3 ever said that she was a student of University of Cambridge. She has mentioned that she obtained certificate in English from Lennox Cook School, which is associated with University of Cambridge and she completed certificate course in 1965. From the above language, it can be easily concluded that respondent No. 3 obtained a certificate from Lennox Cook School. The petitioner has failed to furnish any evidence worth the name that Lennox Cook School is not available anywhere or respondent No. 3 has not obtained certificate from there and it was not affiliated or associated with the University of Cambridge in the year 1965. 83. We are not convinced with the contention of the petitioner on the point that there is any misrepresentation about educational qualification because there is a complete vacuum of evidence to establish that Lennox Cook School was not situated or was not providing educational facilities to students in the year 1965. Once the existence of Lennox Cook School is not doubted and no record could be obtained from Lennox Cook School, it cannot be convinced that Lennox Cook School, was not in existence or it was not imparting educational facilities to student. What was the status of the Lennox Cook School in the year 1965 has to be established by the petitioner. He has failed to establish that the School was not affiliated with the University of Cambridge in the year 1965. 84. We further find that petitioner was duty bound to check from the University of Cambridge about the status of Lennox Cook School in the year 1965 and should have also obtained a certificate to this effect that respondent No. 3 has never studied there. The Court has to peep into the matter on the basis of the record produced by the petitioner. The petitioner has also not filed any admissible documentary evidence before respondent No. 2 and also before this Court to establish this contention. The order dated 23.10.2004 (Annexure No. 1) passed by the Returning Officer/District Election Officer is a speaking and a reasoned order. There is nothing on record to show any infirmity or illegality on the facts before us. The petitioner has failed to establish that on the basis of material on record, the Court may conclude that the impugned order Annexure No. 1 was passed without any legal justification or was passed in abuse of process of law. In our opinion, the impugned order was passed after considering the entire material on record and after having considered the submission of the petitioner after providing sufficient opportunity to the petitioner to plead his case. It is not the case of the petitioner that respondent No. 2 passed the order without considering the material, which was brought to respondent No. 2. The petitioner has also not produced certified copies of the material or other relevant material, which were taken into consideration by respondent No. 2. Consequently, at this stage, it cannot be said that the respondent No. 2 exercised the discretion with malafide intent. The petitioner has also failed to establish that the Returning Officer exercised his discretion contrary to law and even before this Court the petitioner has failed to establish a prima facie case that the information furnished by the respondent No. 3 was incorrect much less false and fraudulent. 85. The petitioner has sought the relief of mandamus against respondent No. 2. We find that the respondent No. 2 being a public authority has exercised the discretion vested in him by law. The petitioner wants reappraisal of evidence and it also indicates that this Court under Article 226 should be converted into a court of appeal to reappraise the entire issue. In this context, we find that the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Vice Chancellor, Utkal University and Ors. v. S.K. Ghosh and Ors. considered akin situation. In this case, the Hon'ble Apex Court propounded that where a public authority exercised the discretion vested in it under the law, then the High Court should not constitute itself into a court of appeal. Thus it is not the function of this Court to substitute its own view or discretion for that of the persons to whose judgment the matter in question is entrusted by the law. 86. It is a settled proposition that a matter under Section 195 Cr.P.C. is primarily for the authorities who hear the application and its discretion is not to be interfered. The constitutional Bench of Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of The Assistant Collector of Customs, Bombay and Anr. v. Behramji Merwanji Damania. , held that the High Court was not justified in interfering with the discretion of the Magistrate. It has observed that except for very good reasons, the High Court should not interfere with the discretion conferred on the Trial Courts in the matter of summoning documents. 87. The Hon'ble Apex Court had an occasion to consider the scope of discretion exercised by a public authority in the matter of U.P. State Road Transport Corporation and Anr. v. Mohd. Ismail and Ors. , wherein at page 12 it held as under: 88. Thus as per the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court, this Court cannot dictate the decision of the statuary authority which should be made in the exercise of discretion in a given case. The Court cannot direct the statutory authority to exercise the discretion in a particular manner not expressly required by law. Consequently, the relief is not tenable in the eyes of law. 89. Thus, if the petitioner's contention is accepted then this Court has to exercise its discretion in a particular manner, which is not permissible due to express provisions of law as laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court. The Hon'ble Apex Court has given a look into such type of cases in Mansukhlal Vithaldas Chauhan v. State of Gujarat , wherein a catena of judgments have been relied upon including the judgment of Vice Chancellor Utkal University v. S.K. Ghosh (supra) as well as in Tata Cellular v. Union of India . For the sake of convenience relevant paragraphs of the report are reproduced as below: 90. Thus, from the aforesaid pronouncement of law, it is crystal clear that the Court cannot substitute its own wisdom and discretion for that of the persons to whose judgment the matter in question is entrusted by the law, and the review cannot be permitted and if a review of the administrative decision is permitted, it will be substituting its own decision which itself may be fallible. The Court pointed out that the duty of the Court is to confine itself to the question of legality. Again the Hon'ble Apex Court in Indian Railway Construction Co. Ltd., v. Ajay Kumar , has held in para 18 as under: 91. The Hon'ble Apex Court held that a decision could be one of many choices open to the authority i.e. the public authority which has to exercise its discretion like the present one, but the Court would not substitute its view. In this context, we find that the respondent No. 2 has already weighed the material on record and passed a valid speaking order after providing opportunity of being heard to the petitioner. Consequently, the discretion so exercised cannot be challenged and the petitioner is not entitled to make a request that this Court should substitute its view against the discretion that has been exercised by respondent No. 2. Consequently, we are not inclined to issue any direction as sought by the petitioner to the respondent No. 2 to exercise the discretion in the manner as suggested by the petitioner. 92. It may be added that the petitioner has further sought a relief in the nature of mandamus commanding the respondents No. 1 and 2 to formally institute a complaint case under Section 195 CrPC before the competent court against respondent No. 3. 93. It is a well settled principle that a mandamus can be issued to an authority to compel it to perform its statutory obligations but it cannot be issued to compel him to pass an order in violation of the statutory provision, but it is also a settled proposition of law that High Court cannot act like an appellate court to re-appraise the evidence. 94. A bare reading of the impugned order does not reflect that the finding arrived at suffers from any apparent error. Consequently, this Court while exercising supervisory jurisdiction cannot act like an appellate court to re-appreciate or re-examine the evidence as suggested by the petitioner. 95. Let us read Section 195 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 195. 96. Prosecution for contempt of lawful authority of public servants, for offences against public justice and for offences relating to documents given in evidence.- (1) No Court shall take cognizance- (a)(i) of any offence punishable under ss 172 to 188 (both inclusive) of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or (ii) of any abatment of, or attempt to commit, such offence, or (iii) of any criminal conspiracy to commit such offence, except on the complaint in writing of the public servant concerned or of some other public servant to whom he is administratively subordinate; (b)(i) of any offence punishable under any of the following sections of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), namely, ss 193 to 196 (both inclusive), 199, 200, 205 to 211 (both inclusive) and 228, when such offence is alleged to have been committed in, or in relation to, any proceeding in any Court, or in relation to, any proceeding in any Court, or (ii) of any offence described in s 463, or punishable under s 471, s 475 or s 476, of the said Code, when such offence is alleged to have been committed in respect of a document produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in any Court, or, (iii) of any criminal conspiracy to commit, or attempt to commit, or the abatement of, any offence specified in Sub-clause (i) or Sub-clause (ii), except on the complaint in writing of that Court, or of some other Court to which that Court is subordinate. (2) Where a complaint has been made by a public servant under Clause (a) of Sub-section (1) any authority to which he is administratively subordinate may order the withdrawal of the complaint and send a copy of such order to the Court and upon its receipt by the Court, no further proceedings shall be taken on the complaint: Provided that no such withdrawal shall be ordered if the trial in the Court of first instance has been concluded. (3) In Clause (b) of Sub-section (1), the term "Court' means, a Civil, Revenue or Criminal Court, and includes a tribunal constituted by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act if declared by that Act to be a Court for the purposes of this section. (4) For the purposes of Clause (b) of Sub-section (1), a Court shall be deemed to be subordinate to the Court to which appeals ordinarily lie from the appealable decrees or sentences of such former Court, or in the case of a Civil court from whose decrees no appeal ordinarily lies to the principal Court having ordinary original civil jurisdiction within whose local jurisdiction such Civil Court is situate: 97. The purpose and object of the bar against cognizance of private complaints in regard to the offences mentioned in Section 195(1)(b) is both to save the accused from vexatious or baseless prosecution spited by feelings of vindictiveness on the part of the private complainant. Section 195 is imperative. 98. Thus, Section 195 carves out an exception to the general law regarding the locus standi of the complainant to file a complaint. Thus only public authority which was a target of the purported false affidavit only has locus standi to file a complaint and no other person can approach the Court for the same. No private person can be allowed to force the Court or public authority concerned to become complainant to initiate criminal prosecution for the alleged offence of perjury. Section 195 clearly vests the public servant a discretion to file a complaint under Section 195 before the court of competent jurisdiction on being satisfied that offences under Section 177, 181, 191 and 193 have been committed by filing any document before him which is forged or perjured or fraudulent. In fact if a public servant may have suspicion about the correctness of an affidavit filed before him, he will still have discretion to file or not to file a complaint and initiate prosecution of the person concerned. 99. Thus, this Section does not cast any positive legal duty upon the public servant to launch a prosecution. A plain reading of the Section reveals that it is an enabling clause, which permits the public servant to file a complaint if he considers it expedient. Section 195 is also a restricted provision as the same puts a bar on every person other then the public servant concerned from initiating criminal proceedings. 100. Thus, if any direction is issued as suggested by the petitioner, it would amount to conferring a private person the right under Section 195 indirectly. It is a settled proposition of law whatever cannot be done directly can also not be achieved indirectly. The petitioner has informed the public authority concerned, but after furnishing the information to the respondent No. 2, he lost any locus in further proceedings and it is solely for the public authority i.e. respondent No. 2 to determine as to whether a case is made out under Section 195 Cr.P.C. or not. 111. We would like to add here that under the Law of Contempt a person even if aggrieved informs the Court about the alleged contempt, he looses his locus standi and it is a matter between the Court and alleged contemnor and the informant has no right to be heard in the contempt proceedings. Consequently after furnishing the information to respondent No. 2 the petitioner has lost his locus. Petitioner has already informed the respondent No. 2 about filing false affidavit by respondent No. 3 and the evidence, which he had with him, must have been furnished by him, thereafter he cannot be permitted to claim any right to challenge the decision of the Returning Officer to file or not to file a complaint case. We further find that a public servant under Section 195 has to set the criminal law in motion. Section 195 does not provide any power beyond its scope to entertain a complaint by a private person or to consider any such complaint. The statute has not provided any power to the complainant to obey any direction against a public servant to take any appropriate action in the matter. In order to file a complaint under Section 195 Cr.P.C. personal satisfaction of the public servant as to the culpability of the accused is sine quo non for such a move. On the contrary, he cannot be compelled to make allegations against someone when in his own judgment no case of perjury or fraud existed. There is a specific finding to this effect in Annexure No. 1 and consequently for want of any evidence it cannot be assailed subsequently before us. 112. This Court does not find any convincing reason that respondent No. 2 has failed to exercise its discretion on the basis of material on record in forming the opinion about non-prosecution of respondent No. 3, accordingly, the discretion so exercised not to initiate any criminal proceedings at this stage at the behest of the petitioner, cannot be covered under the abuse of process of law. It is also a settled proposition of law that Courts do not issue direction to public authorities to act in a particular manner. We are unable to agree with the contention of the petitioner that this Court should issue direction to respondent No. 2 to file a complaint, which would indirectly amount that this Court became the complainant in this matter. We are of the firm view that no public servant can be compelled to act in a particular manner. In the surrounding circumstances, the petition seeking mandamus against respondent No. 2 is not maintainable. In this context, we would like to refer the law as laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Lalji Haridas v. The State of Maharashtra and Anr. , wherein their Lordships' considered about filing of complaint under Section 195 Cr.P.C. Relevant para 6 is quoted below: 113. Further in Patel Laljibhai Somabhai v. The State of Gujrat, the Hon'ble Apex Court at para 10 held as under: 114. Thus, in view of the proposition of law laid down in the aforesaid cases, we do not find any convincing reason to compel the authority concerned to initiate any criminal proceedings. 115.The Hon'ble Apex Court has already observed that the court should ask one question in every such case: "is what something more that would meet the word in this case". In this background, we find that the petitioner has relied over the decision rendered in the case of Vineet Narain and Ors. v. Union of India and Anr. 1996 SCC (Cri) 264, wherein C.B.I. and Revenue Authorities were directed to investigate in Hawala transactions. In this case, we find that there is no averment in the petition that any cognizable case is made out, which requires any investigation. Consequently, the reference of the aforesaid case has no bearing on the facts in issue. 116.The petitioner has further referred the case of Anukul Chandra Pradhan v. Union of India and Ors. 1996 SCC (Crl.) 1338 in his petition. In this case, we find that the Hon'ble Apex Court considered the scope of fair, expedient and open trial. Their Lordships at para 7 held as under: 117. Having regard to the facts in issue, we find that the matter relates to the criminal trial while the case in hand is not the case that any trial is going on. The Hon'ble Apex Court has considered that according to the principles of jurisprudence, the presumption of innocence of the accused should have a paramount consideration and the court should consider the merit of accusation. Consequently, we do not find that the case law relied upon, in any way apply to the facts of this case, but it is apparent that publicity attached to such matter should not affect the essentials of fair trial including the presumption of innocence. We have also gone through the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Union of India and Ors. v. Sushil Kumar Modi and Ors. , wherein Fodder Scam Case of Bihar, investigation was entrusted to C.B.I., their Lordship in para-7 held as under: 118. Having regard to the facts in issue, law has no application on the facts of the case. It is, therefore, of utmost necessity that if the petitioner approaches writ court under Article 226 , must come with clean hands and put forward all the facts before the Court without concealing or suppressing anything. Prerogative remedy is not a matter of course. While exercising the extra ordinary powers, the Court would bear in mind the conduct of the party, who invokes the jurisdiction of the Court. This rule has been evolved in large public interest. Considering the facts in its entirety and the proposition of law, we are not inclined to show any interference under Article 226 of the Constitution and the writ petition lacks merits. 119. Accordingly, the writ petition is dismissed. 120. Costs easy.