Whether approved for reporting? 1

For the petitioner : Mr. Ankit Dhiman, Advocate. ____________________________________________________
Bipin Chander Negi, Judge (oral)

 Status report stands filed and the same is taken on

record. 2. The present bail petition has been filed under Section

483 of the Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (BNSS) for

grant of regular bail, arising out of FIR No. 110 of 2024 dated

04.04.2024, registered at Police Station Sadar Chamba, District

Chamba, H.P., for an offence punishable under Sections 21 & 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. 3. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and

perused the status report. 4. In the case at hand, the quantity involved is

commercial quantity. The main ground raised by the petitioner for

1 Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? seeking release of bail in the case at hand is that the grounds of

arrest were not communicated to him. I have perused the status

report and the record which has been produced. From the same,

it is evident that respondent/state in order to justify the

communication of grounds of arrest to the bail petitioner in the

case at hand are relying upon the arrest memo. In this respect,

learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner has drawn

the attention of this Court to judgment passed by the Apex Court

in Vihaan Kumar vs. State of Haryana and another dated 6th

February 2025. Relevant extract whereof has been reproduced

hereinbelow for a ready reference:- 5. The arrest memo in the case at hand incorporates

the name of the arrested person, his permanent address,

particulars of FIR and sections invoked, place of arrest, date and

time of arrest, name of the officer effecting the arrest and the

name and address of the person to whom information regarding

the arrest has been given. In view of the authoritative

pronouncement of the Apex Court in Vihaan Kumar's case, the

arrest memo in the case at hand only contains the information 3 stated and not the grounds of arrest hence, the present petition is

allowed. The arrest of the bail petitioner on 4.4.2024 in

connection with FIR No. 110/2024 registered at Police Station

Sadar Chamba District Chamba under Sections 21 & 29 of the

ND& PS Act stands vitiated. The bail petitioner shall be forthwith

released and set at liberty. It is clarified that the findings of this

Court that the arrest of the bail petitioner stands vitiated will not

affect the merits of the charge sheet and the pending case. 6. At this juncture with respect to supplying grounds of

arrest to the bail petitioner (similarly situate individual), it would be

appropriate to refer to 1969 (1) SCC 292, titled as Madhu

Limaye And Ors. Vs. Unknown, decided on 18th December,

1968 (Division Bench of three Hon'ble Judges). Relevant

paragraph whereof is being reproduced here-in-below:- In the words of Viscount Simon if a policeman who entertained
 a reasonable suspicion that X had committed a felony were at
 liberty to arrest him and march him off to a police station
 without giving any explanation of why he was doing this, the
 prima facie right of personal liberty would be gravely infringed.
 Viscount Simon laid down several propositions which were not
 meant to be exhaustive. For our purposes we may refer to the
 first and the third : Lord Simonds gave an illustration of the circumstances where
the accused must know why he is being arrested. The two requirements of clause (1) of Article 22 are meant to
afford the earliest opportunity to the arrested person to remove
any mistake, misapprehension or misunderstanding in the
minds of the arresting authority and, also, to know exactly what
the accusation against him is so that he can exercise the
second right, namely, of consulting a legal practitioner of his
choice and to be defended by him. Clause (2) of Article
22 provides the next and most material safeguard that the
arrested person must be produced before a Magistrate within
24 hours of such arrest so that an independent authority
exercising judicial powers may without delay apply is mind to
his case. The Criminal Procedure Code contains analogous
provisions in Section 60 and 340 but out Constitution-makers
were anxious to make these safeguards an integral part of
fundamental rights. This is what Dr. B. R. Ambedkar said while
moving for insertion of Article 15-A (as numbered in the Draft
Bill of the Constitution) which corresponded to present Article
22 : As stated in Ram Narayan Singh v. State of Delhi & Ors. this
court has often reiterated that those who feel called upon to
deprive other persons of liberty in the discharge of what they
conceive to be their duty must, strictly and scrupulously,
observe the forms and rules of law. Whenever that is not done 5 the petitioner would be entitled to a writ of Habeas Corpus
 directing his release. 7. The aforesaid release of the bail petitioner in the

case at hand does not preclude the respondent from re-arresting

the accused after the rectifying procedural defects of prior illegal

arrest. There is no statutory or judicial bar on re-arrest. In this

respect, it would be appropriate to refer to the pronouncement of

the Delhi High Court in judgment delivered on 15.7.2025 titled as

Anwar Khan @ Chacha and others vs. The State of NCT of

Delhi. Relevant extract whereof is being reproduced hereinbelow

for a reference:- The answer, in this Court‟s view, must be in the negative. 37. This question assumes even greater significance in the
 context of the present case, where the petitioners are not first-
 time offenders but individuals with a long list of criminal
 antecedents. As per the material placed on record, some of the
 petitioners are involved in as many as 10, 15, or even 26
 criminal cases, including offences such as robbery, extortion,
 attempt to murder, and even murder. The Digitally Signed
 W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 29 of 34 provisions of MCOCA have
 been invoked in this case, and the prosecution‟s allegations, at 6 least prima facie point towards the existence of a structured
organised criminal syndicate. In such a context, the argument
that an illegal or non-est arrest should completely shield the
accused persons from future arrest, after complying with all
procedural safeguards, cannot be accepted by this Court. 38. The view that re-arrest is not impermissible in such
circumstances has also received judicial recognition. In Kavita
Manikikar of Mumbai v. CBI: 2018 SCC OnLine Bom 1095, the
Bombay High Court held that while the initial arrest of the
petitioner therein was declared illegal due to violation
of Section 46(4) of Cr.P.C. (arrest of a woman after sunset), it
was clarified that the police was not barred from affecting a
subsequent arrest after rectifying the procedural irregularity.
The relevant observations in this regard are as under: 39. Similarly, in Vicky Bharat Kalyani v. State of
Maharashtra (supra), the Division Bench of the Bombay High
Court clearly observed in paragraph 58 of the judgment that
there was no legal bar on re-arresting an accused who had
been released earlier due to Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL)
2045/2025 30 of 34 failure to furnish written grounds of arrest.
Though the Division Bench referred six questions, including
the issue of re-arrest, to a Larger Bench, it nevertheless
recorded a clear and reasoned view in favour of permissibility
of re-arrest in paragraph 58, and no contrary opinion was
expressed anywhere in the said judgment . The relevant
observations in this regard are as under: (Emphasis added) 40. On the other hand, reliance on decision in Vihaan Kumar v.
State of Haryana & Anr. (supra) can be of no help to the
petitioners, inasmuch as the said judgment does not decide
the question of whether re-arrest is legally permissible after an
initial arrest is declared illegal. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in
that case expressly noted that it was not necessary to
adjudicate on that issue in the given set of facts of that case.
Thus, no proposition of law was laid down in the said decision
on the permissibility of re-arrest. The relevant observations in
this regard are as under: 41. However, this Court‟s attention was drawn to the judgment
of Rakesh Kumar Paul v. State of Assam (supra) by the State
wherein while releasing the petitioner on default bail, on the
ground that chargesheet had not been filed within a period of
60 days, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court had clarified that the
release of petitioner shall not prohibit or otherwise prevent the
arrest or rearrest of the Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025
32 of 34 petitioner on cogent grounds in respect of the subject
charge. The relevant observations in this regard are as under: 42. Thus, in the considered view of this Court, there is merit in
 the argument advanced on behalf of the State that when an
 accused is released or his arrest is declared illegal solely on
 technical or procedural grounds - such as in the cases
 of Rakesh Kumar Paul v. State of Assam (supra), Kavita
 Manikikar v. CBI (supra), or Vicky Bharat Kalyani v. State of
 Maharashtra (supra) - the State cannot be precluded from
 taking steps to re-arrest such a person, provided the
 subsequent arrest is affected strictly in accordance with the
 procedure established by law. The mere fact that the earlier
 arrest was vitiated on account of procedural lapses does not,
 by itself, create any blanket immunity from future arrest,
 especially where the investigating agency continues to be in
 possession of material implicating the accused and there has
 been no adjudication on the merits of such material by the
 court declaring the arrest illegal. 43. In view of the foregoing discussion, this Court finds that the
 initial arrest of the petitioners was declared non-est solely due
 to non- furnishing of written grounds of arrest and not due to
 insufficiency of material against them. Further, detailed and
 sufficient grounds of arrest were furnished to the petitioners at
 the time of re-arrest on 10.06.2025. This Court also concludes
 that there is no statutory or judicial bar on re-arrest of an
 accused after curing the procedural defects of a prior illegal
 arrest; and that the judicial precedents, including those of the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court and Bombay High Court (as discussed
 above) support the proposition that a subsequent arrest is
 permissible in law, provided procedural safeguards are
 followed. 8. Accordingly, the bail application is allowed and it is

ordered that the petitioner, who has been arrested by the police,

in case FIR No. 110 of 2024 dated 04.04.2024, registered at

Police Station Sadar Chamba District Chamba H.P. for an offence

punishable under Sections 21 & 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and

Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, shall be forthwith released

on bail, subject to his furnishing personal bond to the tune of Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees one lac) with one Local surety in the like

amount, to the satisfaction of learned trial Court. This bail order is

subject, however, to the following conditions:-. (i) Petitioner shall attend the trial Court on each
 and every date of hearing and if prevented by
 any reason to do so, seek exemption from
 appearance by filing appropriate application; (ii). Petitioner shall not tamper with the evidence
 or hamper the investigation in any manner
 whatsoever; (iii) Petitioner will not leave India without prior
 permission of the Court; (iv) Petitioner shall not make any inducement,
 threat or promise, directly or indirectly, to
 the victim and Investigating Officer or any
 person acquainted with the facts of the case
 to dissuade him/her from disclosing such
 facts to the Court or any Police Officer; (v). Petitioner shall inform the Station House
 Officer of the concerned police station about
 his place of residence during bail and trial. Any change in the same shall also be
 communicated within two weeks thereafter. Petitioner shall furnish details of his Aadhar
 Cards, Telephone Numbers, Email, PAN
 Cards, Bank Account Numbers, if any; & (vi). It is made clear that in case petitioner is
 arraigned as accused, in future, in any FIR,
 then his bail is liable to be cancelled. It is
 open for the Investigating Agency to move
 appropriate application in that regard. 9. Be it stated that any expression of opinion given in

this order does not mean an expression of opinion on the merits

of the case and the trial Court will not be influenced by any

observations made therein. 10. The Registry is directed to forward a soft copy of the

bail order to the Superintendent, District Jail, Chamba H.P.,

through email, with a direction to enter the date of passing of the

present judgment in the e-prison software. 11. The petition accordingly stands disposed of. A copy

of this order be sent to the Superintendent, District Jail, Chamba

H.P., and the learned trial Court by FASTER. 12. A downloaded copy of this order shall be accepted

by the learned Trial Court while accepting the bail bonds from the

petitioner and in case, said Court intends to ascertain the veracity

of the downloaded copy of the order presented to it, same may be

ascertained from the official website of this Court.