1. Heard Sri V.P. Srivastava, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Vijit Saxena, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Jagdev Singh, learned counsel for the opposite party no. 2 and Mohd. Shoaib Khan, learned A.G.A. for the State-respondent. 2. The instant application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. has been filed seeking quashing of Charge-sheet dated 09.08.2018 in S.T. No. 826 of 2018 as well as the entire criminal proceedings in Case Crime No. 59 of 2018 under Sections 376 and 386 I.P.C., Police Station- Mahila Thana, District- Moradabad, pending in the court of Sessions Judge, Moradabad. FACTS 3. The brief facts of the instant case are that on 21.03.2018, the opposite party no.2 had lodged an F.I.R. being Case Crime No. 0059 of 2018 for the offences u/S 376 and 386 I.P.C. at the Woman Police Station, District- Moradabad. It has been submitted by the opposite party no. 2/ the informant that she is the resident of Mohalla H-9, Lajpat Nagar near Guru Govind Singh Park, Police Station-Katghar, District- Moradabad. It is alleged that her husband- Sanjay Goyal, was suffering from disease of sugar for last 15 years and was unable to move frequently and despite various treatments given the same could not improve his condition. In the meantime, her husband has introduced the applicant/Shrey Gupta, and told the informant that the applicant is a faithful person and he will take her care after him. Gradually, the applicant became very close to the informant and allegedly told the informant that her husband would be alive only for few more days, thereafter, both of them would marry. Taking the informant in his confidence and promising her to marry in future, he started to have physical relationship with the informant. The husband of the informant had ultimately died on 29.05.2017 and even after the death of her husband the applicant continued to visit the home of the informant and continued to have physical relationship with the applicant in the home as well as in hotels outside. The informant had many a time asked him to marry her, then, he avoided the marriage telling that first let her sister be married and thereafter he will marry her. Subsequently, the informant came to know about the engagement of the applicant with one other lady on 31.12.2017. Then, the informant told the applicant that he was continuously raping her on the pretext of promise to marry and now he has got engaged with some other lady. 4. Then, on 17.01.2018 at around 6:00 P.M. the applicant allegedly gave a phone call to the informant asking her to come to Rampur Doraha, where he will marry her in a temple and after marriage they will get the marriage registered in court. It is further alleged in the F.I.R. that on such assurance of the applicant herein the informant had reached at Rampur Doraha, then, the applicant told her to come with him and they will marry and thereafter, the applicant had taken her at a godown situated at Rampur Doraha and thereafter by putting a countrymade pistol on the head of the informant, he forcibly committed rape on her and also prepared a video clipping and 
 

 
thereafter told that he will not marry her and if she tells about the incident to anyone else, her video clip shall be made public. Thereafter, the informant allegedly came back to her house and it is further alleged that thereafter the applicant has started demanding Rs. 50,00,000/- within 15 days and threatened that if his demand is not, fulfilled, then he will kill both her sons and make the video clip public. 5. On the aforesaid allegations the instant F.I.R. was registered against the applicant herein. Thereafter, the matter was investigated by the police official and after recording the statements of various persons, who have alleged that there was a financial dispute between the applicant and the informant with regard to an amount of Rs. 1,00,00,000/-, which is to be paid by the son of the informant to the applicant and the instant F.I.R. was lodged just to avoid the said payment of Rs. 1,00,00,000/-. Son of the informant has also admitted the fact that the applicant herein was working with his father and also used to visit his home but he is not aware about any relationship of the applicant with the informant. 6. During the investigation the Call Detail Records (C.D.R.) reports were also received and wherefrom the Investigation Officer has concluded that the place of incident as alleged in the F.I.R., the C.D.R. report of applicant and the opposite party no.2 are negative and it was further stated that the informant is a fifty years old woman, who has two sons of 27 years and 25 years of age and the applicant herein is also aged about 26 years and after the death of the husband of the informant her son was running the business of his father and he was liable to make a payment of Rs. 1,00,00,000/- to the applicant and the medical report has also not supported the incident of rape. 7. On the basis of the aforesaid, the Final Report dated 06.05.2018 was prepared by the earlier IO. However, the aforesaid Final Report was cancelled by the Senior Superintendent of Police and further investigation was directed on the following points: 8. On the basis of such directions of Senior Superintendent of Police the investigation was taken over by the SHO- Rajini Dwivedi, who has subsequently filed the charge-sheet dated 09.08.2018 and vide order dated 
 

 
28.09.2018, the trial court has taken cognizance on the aforesaid charge- sheet and warrant was prepared under Section 209A Cr.P.C. against the applicant herein against which the instant application has been filed by the applicant herein. 9. After the cognizance was taken by the trial court, the applicant has approached this Court by filing Criminal Miscellaneous Bail Application No. 38272 of 2018 ( Shrey Gupta vs. State of U.P. ), which was disposed of vide order dated 09.10.2018 and the bail application of the applicant herein was allowed. While granting bail this Court has taken into consideration the long-standing acknowledged relationship between the informant and the applicant including physical relationship stretched across period of 12-13 years, as mentioned in the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 Cr.P.C. statement and the inherent nature of allegations regarding the incident dated 17.01.2018, delay in lodging the F.I.R. and the immediate cause for the prosecutrix to act upon learning that the applicant had been engaged to a younger woman and has committed breach of promise to marry the informant and the alleged Whatsapp messages from the informant to the applicant taken on their face value. 10. In her 164 Cr.P.C . statement, the informant has categorically admitted that the applicant herein became a family friend in the year 2005, as her husband was ill since last 15 years and in relation to the said business of her husband the informant used to go alongwith the applicant to bank and office etc. and she has developed a love relationship and in these 12-13 years they had continuous physical relationship number of times. It is further stated by the informant that during this period the applicant has established his own business with the help of the informant and also by some misappropriation of money. Ultimately, the husband of the informant had died on 29.05. 2017. Thereafter, the informant has asked the applicant to marry her, which was avoided by the applicant on the pretext of his DIL case. 11. In the medical examination, which was conducted at District Hospital, Moradabad, on 26.03.2018, no alive or dead spermatozoa was found and as 
 

 
per the medical report no definite opinion about rape committed on the informant was given. There was no external injury on the body of the victim. SUBMISSIONS BY APPLICANT 12. Learned Senior Counsel for the applicant submits even if the allegations made in the F.I.R. as well as in the statement under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C., coupled with the medical report and the entire material available on record, it is crystal clear that the informant was having a continuous consensual physical relationship with the applicant for about 12-13 years. Even when her husband was alive and she was also having the children near the age of the applicant herein. Therefore, learned counsel for the applicant submits that by no stretch of imagination such an alleged continuously consensual physical relationship would amount to rape within the meaning of Sections 375 and 376 I.P.C. 13. In support of his submissions learned Senior Counsel for the applicant has relied upon the judgements of Apex Court in Pramod Suryabhan Pawar v. State of Maharashtra , ( 2019) 9 SCC 608, Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar vs. State of Maharashtra : ( 2019) 18 SCC 191, Maheshwar Tigga v. State of Jharkhand , ( 2020) 10 SCC 108, Naim Ahamed v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2023 SCC OnLine SC 89, State of Karnataka v. L. Muniswamy , ( 1977) 2 SCC 699, Anand Kumar Mohatta v. State (NCT of Delhi ), ( 2019) 11 SCC 706, R.K. Vijayasarathy v. Sudha Seetharam , (2019) 16 SCC 739, Rashmi Chopra v. State of U.P., (2019) 15 SCC 357 and the judgements of this Court in Jiyaullah v. State of U.P. , 2023 SCC OnLine All 858 and Aruni Mittal v. State of U.P., 2023 SCC OnLine All 3961, therefore, prays for quashing of the entire proceedings of the instant case against the applicant herein. SUBMISSIONS BY INFORMANT 14. Per contra, learned counsel for the opposite party no.2 submits that even if the lady was having a consensual physical relationship for long a period of time, however, that does not give a license to forcibly establish physical 
 

 
relationship against her will. When such relationship between the parties becomes estrange and if such physical relationship is established at the gun point against the will of the informant, that will amounts to rape. It is further submitted by learned counsel for the opposite party no.2 that since from the beginning, the relationship of the informant started with the applicant only on the basis of his promise to marry the informant after the death of the husband of the informant. Had there been no such promise on the part of the applicant, the informant would not have entered into such a relationship with the applicant herein and the applicant has continuously exploited the informant for a long period of time on the pretext of marriage and subsequently he has refused to marry the informant and has got engaged with some other lady and subsequent thereto, had forcibly raped the informant. Therefore, a clear case of rape, committed by the applicant is made out against him. Subsequently, the applicant has also prepared a video clip of such physical activity and on the pretext of the same he has started blackmailing the informant and had demanded Rs. 50,00,000/- from the informant and has threatened the informant to kill her sons and also defame her and kill her entire family. Therefore, the allegation as made are fully established and it cannot be said that no case whatsoever is made out against the applicant herein. Therefore, learned counsel for the opposite party no.2 submits that no interference is called for in the instant matter and allegation that the instant F.I.R. has been lodged just to avoid the payment of dues of Rs. 1,00,00,000/-, is a subject matter of trial and at this stage no definite opinion can be formed. Thus, he seeks dismissal of the instant application filed by the applicant herein. SUBMISSIONS BY STATE 15. Learned A.G.A. submits that though from the facts as narrated in the F.I.R. as well as in the statements under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. it is clear that the applicant and the informant were having the continuous consensual physical relationship, however, despite such relationship it does not give him implied license to commit rape at any point of time against the 
 

 
will of the informant. On 17.01.2018, allegedly applicant has committed rape at the gun point, which has been alleged in the F.I.R. and also in her 164 Cr.P.C . statement, therefore, a prima facie offence under Section 376 I.P.C. is made out against the applicant. Further, allegations with regard to extortion of money is concerned there are sufficient allegations that a video clip was prepared and thereafter the applicant had tried to extort an amount of Rs. 50,00,000/- from the informant, failing which he has threatened her to kill both her sons and defame the informant if his demands are not fulfilled, by circulating the said video in public. Therefore, learned A.G.A. submits that there are sufficient allegations as well as the material available on record to establish the aforesaid offence against the applicant herein. Therefore, no interference is called for while exercising the jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. CONSIDERATION BY COURT 16. Having considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, this Court has carefully gone through the record of the case. Undisputedly, the admitted fact in the instant case are that the informant, at the time of lodging the F.I.R. was aged about 49 years as is reflected from her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and the applicant herein was much younger than the informant. In the instant case though the charge-sheet was filed for the offences under Section 376 as well as 386 I.P.C ., learned Magistrate has taken cognizance against the applicant only for the offence under Section 376 I.P.C. Therefore, before proceeding further it would be relevant to note the provisions of Sections 375 and 376 I.P.C., which reads as under: Provided that a woman who does not physically resist to the act of penetration shall not by the reason only of that fact, be regarded as consenting to the sexual activity. Exceptions 1. A medical procedure or intervention shall not constitute rape. 2. Sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape. Section 376 . Punishment for rape. 1. Whoever, except in the cases provided for in sub-section (2), commits rape, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less than ten years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 2. Whoever-- 3. Whoever, commits rape on a woman under sixteen years of age shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twenty years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person's natural life, and shall also be liable to fine: CONSENT 18. Section 90 of the I.P.C. further defines the consent if given under fear or misconception is no consent. Section 90 of the I.P.C. reads as under: 19. In Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar (supra), the Apex Court has held that an inference as to consent can be drawn only based on evidence or probabilities of the case. Consent is also stated to be act of reason coupled with deliberations. It denotes an act, will of mind of a person to promote the doing of the act complaint of. 20. In Pramod Suryabhan Pawar (supra), the Apex Court has held that where a woman does not consent to the sexual act, described in the main body of Section 375 I.P.C., the offence of rape has occurred while Section 90 I.P.C. does not define the term consent. A consent based on misconception of fact is not consent in the eyes of law. 21. In Kaini Rajan v. State of Kerala , (2013) 9 SCC 113, it has been held by the Apex Court, which reads as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 22. Thus, for the purpose of the offence under Section 375 I.P.C., the consent needs the voluntary participation of the prosecutrix in the physical relationship with the accused. The consent of such physical relationship would only be vitiated when it was given under some misconception of fact or under fear of injury to the victim or any person in whom the victim was interested. 23. In the instant case, at the time of initiation of the physical relationship with the applicant the prosecutrix, her husband was alive. Therefore, the allegation that the applicant had promised her to marry was of no consequence as prosecutrix herself was not having any capacity to marry with the applicant at the relevant time and such consensual physical relationship between the applicant and the prosecutrix had continued for about 12-13 years without any objection on the part of the prosecutrix. Thus, in the considered opinion of the Court the aforesaid physical relationship between the applicant and the prosecutrix was a long-standing consensual adulterous physical relationship, which would not amount to rape within the meaning of Section 375 I.P.C. PROMISE TO MARRY 24. In Anurag Soni v. State of Chhattisgarh , (2019) 13 SCC 1, the Apex Court has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 25. In Deepak Gulati v. State of Haryana , (2013) 7 SCC 675 ,  the Apex Court has held as under: ............... 24. Hence, it is evident that there must be adequate evidence to show that at the relevant time i.e. at the initial stage itself, the accused had no intention whatsoever, of keeping his promise to marry the victim. There may, of course, be circumstances, when a person having the best of intentions is unable to marry the victim owing to various unavoidable circumstances. The "failure to keep a promise made with respect to a future uncertain date, due to reasons that are not very clear from the evidence available, does not always amount to misconception of fact. In order to come within the meaning of the term "misconception of fact", the fact must have an immediate relevance". Section 90 IPC cannot be called into aid in such a situation, to pardon the act of a girl in entirety, and fasten criminal liability on the other, unless the court is assured of the fact that from the very beginning, the accused had never really intended to marry her." (Emphasis Supplied) 26. In Yedla Srinivasa Rao v. State of A.P. , (2006) 11 SCC 615, the Apex Court has held as under: 27. In Uday v. State of Karnataka , (2003) 4 SCC 46,  where the complainant was a college going student, when the accused promised to marry her, the complainant in statements submits that she was aware that there will be 
 

 
significant opposition from both the complainant and accused family to their marriage, knowing fully well she engaged in sexual intercourse with the accused, however, kept such relationship secret from her family. In such circumstances the Apex Court has observed that the accused promised to marry the complainant was not of immediate relevance to the complainant's decision created in sexual intercourse with the accused, rather, it was motivated by her sexual desires and other factors. The Apex Court has observed as under: 28. In Pramod Suryabhan Pawar (supra), on the facts where the complainant and the accused were known to each other for sufficiently long time and were also engaged in intimate relationship and they travel regularly together and reside in each other's house on multiple occasions and were engaged in sexual intercourse regularly over a course of five years and when the accused expressed his reservations about marrying the complainant after about 10 years of such continuous, consensual physical relationship, the Apex Court has held that subsequent failure of the accused to fulfil his promise of marriage made earlier, cannot be construed to make the promise itself was false, therefore, no offence of rape is made out, in which the Apex Court has observed as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 29. Thus, from the aforesaid judgements it is apparent that each and every promise of marriage would not be considered as a fact of misconception for the purpose of consensual sexual intercourse unless it is established that such promise of marriage was a false promise of marriage on the part of the accused since the beginning of such relationship. Unless it is alleged that from the very beginning of such relationship there was some element of cheating on the part of the accused while making such promise, it would not be treated as a false promise of marriage. Once, a promise was made in good faith and subsequently after change of circumstances when the relationship between the parties went wrong for various other reasons, such breach of promise would not be treated as misconception for the purpose of consent of establishing physical relationship. When a woman of competent age, who has sufficient understanding of the physical activities in which she is involving herself on the basis of such promise of marriage, understands the risk of such physical relationship as there is big difference between marriage and promise of marriage. 30. In the instant case, the prosecutrix was a lady of matured age and was having two sons of matured age, equivalent to that of the applicant herein and at the time of initiating the physical relationship the prosecutrix has her husband alive, therefore, the promise of marriage as alleged in the instant case by the prosecutrix was of no consequence at all as the prosecutrix was herself incompetent to marry at the time of initiation of such relationship. Therefore, the prosecutrix herself involved the applicant in the physical relationship out of her own lust and cannot blame the applicant for breach of promise as the promise itself was not non-est at that time of beginning of the relationship between the applicant and the prosecutrix. EXERCISE OF POWERS U/S 482 Cr.P.C . 31. In L. Muniswamy (supra), the Apex Court has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 32. In Anand Kumar (supra)  the Apex Court has held as under: 16. There is nothing in the words of this section which restricts the exercise of the power of the Court to prevent the abuse of process of court or miscarriage of justice only to the stage of the FIR. It is settled principle of law that the High Court can exercise jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC even when the discharge application is pending with the trial court [ G. Sagar Suri v. State of U.P. , (2000) 2 SCC 636, para 7 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 513. Umesh Kumar v. State of A.P. , (2013) 10 SCC 591, para 20 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 338 : (2014) 2 SCC (L&S) 237] . Indeed, it would be a travesty to hold that proceedings initiated against a person can be interfered with at the stage of FIR but not if it has advanced and the allegations have materialised into a charge-sheet. On the contrary it could be said that the abuse of process caused by FIR stands aggravated if the FIR has taken the form of a charge-sheet after investigation. The power is undoubtedly conferred to prevent abuse of process of power of any court." (Emphasis Supplied) 33. In R.K. Vijayasarathy (supra), the Apex Court has held as under: 10. The High Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is required to examine whether the averments in the complaint constitute the ingredients necessary for an offence alleged under the Penal Code. If the averments taken on their face do not constitute the ingredients necessary for the offence, the criminal proceedings may be quashed under Section 482 . A criminal proceeding can be quashed where the allegations made in the complaint do not disclose the commission of an offence under the Penal Code. The complaint must be examined as a whole, without evaluating the merits of the allegations. Though the law does not require that the complaint reproduce the legal ingredients of the offence verbatim, the complaint must contain the basic facts necessary for making out an offence under the Penal Code." (Emphasis Supplied) 34. In Rashmi Chopra (supra)  the Apex Court has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 35. In Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar (supra), the Apex Court has held as under: 10. In Rajesh Bajaj v. State (NCT of Delhi) [Rajesh Bajaj v. State (NCT of Delhi), (1999) 3 SCC 259 : 1999 SCC (Cri) 401] , this Court has held that it is not necessary that a complainant should verbatim reproduce in the body of his complaint all the ingredients of the offence he is alleging. If the factual foundation for the offence has been laid in the complaint, the court should not hasten to quash criminal proceedings during the investigation stage merely on the premise that one or two ingredients have not been stated with details. 11. In State of Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa [State of Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa, (2002) 3 SCC 89 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 539] , it was held that while exercising powers under Section 482 CrPC, the court does not function as a court of appeal or revision. Inherent jurisdiction under the section though wide has to be exercised sparingly, carefully and with caution and only when such exercise is justified by the tests specifically laid down in the section itself. It was further held as under : (SCC p. 94, para 6)
 
"6. ... It would be an abuse of process of the court to allow any action which would result in injustice and prevent promotion of justice. In exercise of the powers court would be justified to quash any proceeding if it finds that initiation/continuance of it amounts to abuse of the process of court or quashing of these proceedings would otherwise serve the ends of justice. When no offence is disclosed by the complaint, the court may examine the question of fact. When a complaint is sought to be quashed, it is permissible to look into the materials to assess what the complainant has alleged and whether any offence is made out even if the allegations are accepted in toto." (Emphasis Supplied) 36. In Vineet Kumar v. State of U.P. , (2017) 13 SCC 369, the Apex Court has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied)
 
RAPE/CONSENSUAL SEX 37. Further, in Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar (supra), the Apex Court has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 38. In Maheshwar Tigga (supra), the Apex Court has held that the misconception of the fact about promise to marry has to be in proximity of time to occurrence and cannot be spread over for long period of time. The Apex Court has observed as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 39. In Naim Ahamed (supra)  the Apex Court has held that it would be folly to teach each breach of promise to marry as a false promise and to prosecute a person for the offence under Section 376 I.P.C., the Apex Court has observed as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 40. In Jiyaullah (supra), this Court has held as under: 20. Thus, from the proposition of law as enunciated in the above cited judgments, this Court is of the view that even assuming that all the allegations made against the applicant herein are true for the purposes of considering the application for quashing u/S 482 Cr. P.C., no offence u/S 376 is established as the relationship between the parties was of consensual nature and which has an approval of the family as well and the initial promise by the applicant herein was not false. It is 
 

 
only after subsequent developments between the parties, the applicant herein has refused to marry the applicant herein. Since, the relationship between the parties was longstanding and the victim as well as her family members knew the consequences of the relationship, therefore, any subsequent breach of such relationship would not amount to the offence of rape u/S 375 I.P.C." (Emphasis Supplied) 41. In Aruni Mittal (supra), this Court has held as under: 19. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and perusal of records, it is apparent that allegations in the FIR do not on their face value, indicate that promise by the applicant no. 1 was false or that prosecutorix engaged in sexual relationship on the basis of that promise only. Relationship between them has been activated and prompte by love and affection also. There is no allegation in the FIR that when the applicant no. 1 accepted her as his wife before the deity in the temple, it was done in bad faith or with the intention to deceive her. The applicant no. 1's failure in 2019 to fulfill his promise made in 2011 cannot be construed to mean the promise itself was false. The allegations in the FIR indicate that the prosecurtorix was aware that there existed obstacles to marrying the applicant no. 1 since beginning as applicant no. 1's family members were strongly against their relationship particularly, his sister was creating atmosphere against the prosecutorix, despite all this, the prosecutorix and applicant no. 1 continued to engage in sexual relations over a long period of time i.e. nine years, after their getting married had became a disputed matter. Even thereafter, the prosecutorix travelled to visit several hotels and remained there with the applicant no. 1 and had established sexual relations there. The allegations in the FIR belie the case that the prosecutrorix was deceived by the applicant no. 1's promise of marriage. Therefore, even if the facts set out in the prosecurtorix's statements are accepted in totality, no offence under Section 375 of IPC is made out, as such, the present criminal proceedings against the applicants is nothing but an abuse of process of law, which is liable to be quashed. (Emphasis Supplied) 42. Therefore, from the aforesaid line of judgements, it is crystal clear that if the parties were having long-standing continuous consensual physical relationship without there being any element of cheating from the inception, such relationship would not amount to rape. 43. In the instant case, the prosecutrix who herself was a married woman having two grown up children and also having her husband alive, had entered into a physical relationship out of love, lust and infatuation towards the applicant herein due to incapacity of her husband, due to his illness and for a period of about 12-13 years she continuously remained in such an adulterous physical relationship with the applicant and the prosecutrix had entered into such relationship knowing fully well that she has no capacity of marriage, when she started such relationship with the applicant. Therefore, 
 

 
the allegation that the promise of marriage was made which was dependent on the death of the husband of the prosecutrix, was a lame excuse given by the prosecutrix. Even if the applicant had promised to marry after the death of the husband of the prosecutrix, it was a no promise in law and the prosecutrix was a matured lady, having two adult children, had deliberately and consciously entered into such a relationship with the applicant herein. Admittedly, the applicant is much younger in age to the prosecutrix and was an employee in the business of the husband of the prosecutrix. Thus, she was having undue influence over the applicant, whereby she had forced the applicant into physical relations with her. From the facts of the case it is apparent that the prosecutrix had allured the applicant herein due to subordination of the applicant, as he was dependent financially on the family of the prosecutrix and due to the aforesaid dependency the prosecutrix had allured and forced the applicant to entered into such a relationship, which was with the clear and categorical consent and will of the prosecutrix, therefore, by no stretch of imagination such relationship would amount to rape within the meaning of Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code. As per her own statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C., the prosecutrix herself has helped the applicant to establish his own business so that she can stay with the applicant in future. Admittedly, the prosecutrix was in a dominant position over the applicant herein and there is no allegation of any use of force or cheating by the applicant to allure the prosecutrix at the time of inception of the relationship between them. The further story is that on 17.01.2018 the applicant had put a country-made pistol on her head and had forcibly raped her and prepared the video clip. From the record neither the video clip is recovered nor the said country-made pistol has been recovered from possession of the applicant or on the indication of the applicant herein. 44. From the record, it is apparent that initially the Final Report was prepared having categorically found that the call details of both the person did not match on the place of occurrence as alleged in the F.I.R. and the subsequently the charge-sheet has been filed without establishing the fact 
 

 
that the parties were present at the place of occurrence and no material has been concluded with regard to non-existence of the financial dispute between the parties, which was categorically alleged by the witnesses in the first round of investigation, as was directed by the Superintendent of Police. 45. Therefore, this Court is of the considered opinion that in the instant case no offence of rape is made out against the applicant herein and the instant F.I.R. has been lodged by the prosecutrix being annoyed with regard to the engagement of the applicant with some other lady and she was not willing to leave the applicant, therefore, the subsequent incident of forcible rape has been concocted by the prosecutrix only for the purpose of lodging the F.I.R., which is not substantiated during the investigation. 46. Therefore, the instant application is allowed and the entire proceedings of the Charge-sheet dated 09.08.2018 in S.T. No. 826 of 2018 as well as the entire criminal proceedings in Case Crime No. 59 of 2018 under Sections 376 an 386 I.P.C ., Police Station- Mahila Thana, District- Moradabad, pending in the court of Sessions Judge, Moradabad, are hereby quashed. Order Date :- 1st October, 2024
 
Shubham Arya
 
(Anish Kumar Gupta, J.)