In the next morning the girls relative came to Lalbazaar and lodged a
 complaint of missing. But verbally they requested police not to make
 the matter public as it will hamper the reputation of the family and the
 girl. For that the police did not do anything formally. But both of them
 were called to Lalbazaar and were asked that is the girl a major. In
 such cases the majority of the girl is seen. Once a girl is a major, it is
 totally upto her choice what she will do. It is very clear. Usually what
 we do is when a girl is called missing by her relatives usually they
 think the girl has been abducted against her will, being influenced it
 seems to be true. Because the family which has nurtured the girl for
 18 or 25 to 26 years fails to think that in a night time the girl would
 become a member of another family. So they wanted to make us
 convinced. In this case our duty is to find out the whereabouts of the
 persons linked. Though in this case the boy and the girl were located
 as they had an address in Kolkata. And we always try to do this, once
 we trace the girl or the boy particularly if a girl is missing our
 responsibility is found (sic to find) them out. Even a major girl can be
 abducted, against her will, or blackmailing, every thing can happen
 variedly. In that case we call both the parties and try to understand in
 what background she had left. Once it is understood then it is made
 clear to the family that your girl has not been harmed. Your girl is safe.
 She has not been taken against her will or anything and if she is a
 major then it is upto her what she would do. We cannot interfere in the
 matter. That is what happened in this case. *******

 Number one is in the first day the boy and the girl had same point of
 view. So they were released according to their will. According to us as
 she was a major her choice was respected. She was allowed to go
 back. She went back. *******

 On 4th September, the family members of the girl asked us to give them
 a scope to talk to the girl and the boy. Accordingly we called both of
 them and they came to us voluntarily. *******

 However, on 8th the girl's family members said that they want to lodge
 a formal complaint of abduction. They said that the girl can't stay like
 this. She has been influenced. And they lodged a complaint that that
 their daughter had been kept forcefully without her intention. In this
 background of which they were again called. *******

 It is very unfortunate that he had decided to commit suicide. Suicide in
 the sense that he had sent SMS to his friends which we come to know
 through several newspapers. *******

 However, in the morning at around 10.30 am it is impossible that one
 person is being killed and put to the tracks. *******". Having perused the records produced in Court, particularly the complaints

lodged by Pradeep Todi, this Court cannot but observe that the respondent no.3

did not address the press with correct and complete facts. He seemed to be

totally oblivious of the facts that Riz and Priyanka had addressed a

representation to him seeking protection; that respondent no.12 had been to the

residence of Riz on 31.8.07 and had persuaded Priyanka to return; that on a

written complaint lodged by Pradeep Todi on 1.9.07, an enquiry was conducted

on the order of the Deputy Commissioner, Detective Department by the

respondent no.9 who found the couple eligible to marry and the marriage

certificate was found to be genuine; and that on false and frivoulous complaints

and without registering an FIR, Riz was being summoned to Lal Bazar. His

version of the Todis' reaction and the repeated sermons sent to Riz to be present

at Lalbazar at their beck and call are clearly suggestive of a partisan attitude

taken by the Kolkata Police without even realizing that by marrying Priyanka, Riz

had neither committed any offence nor was Priyanka missing, as alleged by

Pradeep Todi, which was the real cause for the police being pro-active. It is naïve to assume that Riz had been to Lalbazar voluntarily as suggested

by the respondent no.3. Immediately after his marriage, Riz found himself in

troubled waters. As and when the Deputy Commissioners (respondents 5 and 7)

required his presence, respondent no.9 was deputed to bring him to Lalbazar. In

such circumstances, there is good reason to believe, as pleaded, that he wilted

under pressure and succumbed to the directives given to him by the police. To
 suggest that Riz attended at Lalbazar voluntarily was clearly aimed at shifting the

focus. The respondent no.3, being the Commissioner of Police at the relevant

time, also ought not to have defended the reaction of the Todis in public as well

as his subordinates particularly when the police machinery was activated not on

the basis of what is true but absolutely on reckless allegations. Also, the

respondent no.3 being the police supremo having years of experience behind his

back should have refrained from making any observation of the nature that at

10.30 A.M. it is impossible that a person is killed and put on the tracks. It was

too early in the day to come to any conclusion and such observations coming

from no other than the Police Commissioner was bound to have an effect on the

investigation. This Court is of the further view that the answer reportedly given by the

respondent no.3 to the question as to why the police intervened in a marital

dispute (who would intervene, the P.W.D.?) has not been countered specifically

by asserting that no such answer was given. It probably could not have been

disputed by the respondent no.3 for, it appears from the video recording, that he

did answer the question in the manner reflected in paragraph 25 of the petition

and the newspaper report annexed thereto. Now, the question arises as to whether the respondent no.3, in any

manner, is responsible or not? The press conference of respondent no.3 brings to the fore a veiled attempt

on his part to shield his force and subordinates. On the facts the respondent
 no.3 knew or ought to have known, he failed to take into account all the relevant

factors, took into account irrelevant factors and reached a conclusion which no

Commissioner of Police, properly directing himself as to his duties, could have

reached. Respondent no.3's perception of police powers is also undoubtedly

flawed which is amply reflected from the materials on record. Justification of the

actions/inaction of Kolkata Police furnished by him has to be rejected as not

valid. It also appears that the respondent no.3 withheld facts. In his affidavit,

what advice he had given to Pradeep Todi when he met him on 7.9.07 is

conspicuous by its absence. The fact that Pradeep Todi had met him was not

disclosed in course of the press conference. Probably there could hardly be any

justification for keeping these incidents in wraps and as such was not sought to

be justified. The respondent no.3 in the press conference betrayed his serious concern

for the family of the Todis without even permitting a peep in his mind that after

all the petitioner no.1 had lost her grown up son who had been brought up with

care by her for 30 years. There were no signs of sympathy and no words of

condolence for her. It is, however, a question of moral values and this Court

would not find fault if a public servant lacks it. Whether or not there was any personal involvement of the respondent no.3

in the incidents of 1.9.07, 4.9.07 and 8.9.07 has got to be established in duly

constituted proceedings and this Court would be loath to return any finding on

this aspect. For reasons discussed above, this Court is constrained to hold that the

respondent no.3 acted irresponsibly and instead of diffusing tension, he added

fuel to fire. The issue is answered accordingly. Issue No.4

 Allegation against respondent no.7 is primarily contained in paragraph 10

of the petition. According to the petitioners, he had summoned Riz and Priyanka

at Lal Bazar on 4.9.07 and created mental pressure on both. He has generally

denied the allegations made against him in the writ petition while expressing his

inability to specifically deny the same in the absence of copy of the report of the

CBI wherein recommendation for initiation of disciplinary proceeding for major

penalty against him has been made. Prayer for supply of copy of the CBI's report made by respondent no.7 to

enable him file his counter affidavit was rejected by the order dated 28.2.08 and

he was given liberty to file it by 6.3.08. By refraining to deal with the allegations

specifically for want of report of the CBI, a ground not tenable in law after the

order dated 28.2.08 was passed, respondent no.7 has himself to blame for failing

to traverse the allegations of summoning Riz at Lalbazar without a cognizable

case registered against him and torturing him, and the Court has no other option

but to treat the allegations as uncontroverted. That Riz was indeed called upon to

attend at Lalbazar on three occasions including 4.9.07 has been admitted by the
 respondent no.3 in the press conference. Presence of Riz and Priyanka at Lal

Bazar on 4.9.07 is also proved from the contents of the complaint lodged by

Pradeep Todi, which has been extracted above. Having regard to the turn of events, this Court has no hesitation to record

that respondent no.7 in the absence of a cognizable case registered against Riz,

having summoned him and created pressure on him invaded his right to privacy

and thereby acted ultra vires. Allegations against respondents 5, 8 and 9 are traceable in various

portions of the petition. Mr. Pal, learned Counsel for the respondents 5, 8 and 9 contended that

these respondents remained silent, in exercise of the right guaranteed by Article

20(3) , with regard to the purported events of 1.9.07, 4.9.07 and 8.9.07 and their

silence cannot be treated as admissions on the authority of the decision of the

Apex Court in Naseem Bano (supra). Per contra, it is contended that Article 20(3) has no manner of application

in the present case for it is not available to one who seeks opportunity to counter

allegations in the writ petition and thereafter chooses not to counter it. Whatever

the respondents would disclose in the affidavit cannot be treated as evidence in a

criminal case and hence Article 20(3) cannot be invoked. The decisions cited by learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners and the

concerned respondents on the point have been looked into. In the considered

opinion of this Court, ratio of those decisions are useful for understanding the

intendment of Article 20(3) and the Court would be guided in returning a finding
 one way or the other on the basis of the principles of law laid down therein.

However, this Court may note that the preamble of the Evidence Act, 1872 has

since been amended together with the definition of 'evidence' and hence the

decision in Parkash Rai (supra) would have no application. Article 20 of the Constitution provides for protection in respect of

conviction of offences. Clause (3) thereof embodies the doctrine against self-

incrimination. It guarantees the right to a person not to be forced to incriminate

himself. It is intended to give protection to a person accused of offence in

criminal proceedings. In other words, it secures the freedom of a person not to be

compelled to give evidence that might amount to an admission or confession of a

crime, wherefor his person may be put under restraint by being imprisoned.

Though the word freedom is not mentioned in any of the clauses of Article 20 , by

providing that certain things shall not be done to a person his freedom is

secured. For invoking Article 20(3) and to have protection guaranteed thereby, three

pre-conditions must exist, viz. (i) a person must be accused of any offence; (ii)

there must be a compulsion on him 'to be a witness'; and (iii) it must be 'against

himself'. If any of these is non-existent, Article 20(3) cannot be invoked. Court's calling upon a party to counter allegations contained in a petition

by filing an affidavit, in the considered view of this Court, cannot amount to a

compulsion aimed at procurement of self-incriminatory statements by pressure

or force. If a party accused of an offence chooses to make any statement, he is

welcome to do so. But by remaining silent, he cannot legitimately expect the
 Court to remain silent. The Court would be justified, in such event, to proceed on

the basis of the available materials and to return such finding on appreciation

thereof as is warranted in the facts and circumstances. In this connection one may take note of the decision of the Apex Court in

Capt. Dushyant Somal vs. Smt. Sushma Somal & ors., reported in AIR 1981 SC

1026. The facts therein were that the appellant and the respondent were parents

of two minor children, one a daughter and the other a son; they started living

separately as a result of estrangement between them; while the son was in the

custody of the respondent pursuant to an order passed under the Guardians and

Wards Act , the son escorted by his grandmother was waiting at a bus stop when

the appellant accompanied by three or four persons forcibly took him away; on

the respondent's complaint police registered a case under Section 363 of the IPC

but the search for tracing the son proved abortive; this led the respondent to

apply before the High Court under Article 226 for a writ of habeas corpus

directing the appellant to produce her son; the appellant in answer to the rule

denied having kidnapped his son whereupon the High Court then decided to

examine witnesses; pursuant thereto the respondent and her mother deposed in

Court but the appellant chose not to cross-examine the witnesses produced by

the respondent or to examine himself or anyone else as a witness; the Court

having been satisfied that the son had been unauthorisedly taken away by the

appellant from the lawful custody of the respondent and was being illegally

detained by him, a writ of habeas corpus was issued directing the appellant to

produce his son before the Court so that custody of the child could be given to
 the respondent; the appellant having failed to do so, he was found guilty of

contempt and was directed to be detained in civil prison. The Apex Court had the occasion to hear the appeal against the order

committing the appellant to prison for contempt and the petition for special leave

to appeal which was directed against the order of the High Court on the Article

226 petition. The order of the High Court issuing the writ was upheld. While

dealing with the submission of the appellant that he did not give evidence or

examine any witnesses on his behalf nor did he cross-examine the respondent or

his mother because in such case he would be disclosing his defence in the

criminal case registered under Section 363 , IPC and that compulsion to disclose

his defence would be contrary to Article 20(3) of the Constitution, the Apex Court

rejected his contention as misconceived and observed as follows: Learned Advocate General urged before this Court that the conclusion

reached by the learned Judge is erroneous and that this Court, on proper

appreciation of the statutory provisions, ought to hold that the CID did not

commit any illegality in continuing with investigation even after inquest. To appreciate the rival contentions on the point, Section 174(1) of the Code

to the extent relevant for the present purpose, if para-phrased, would read: Section 174 (2) of the Code ordains that the inquest report shall be signed

by such police officer and other persons who concur therein and shall be

forthwith forwarded to the District Magistrate or the Sub-divisional Magistrate. If the police officer conducting inquest entertains any doubt regarding the

cause of death, he is obliged in terms of Section 174(3) to forward the body for

medical examination by qualified medical personnel appointed by the State

Government and subject to conditions mentioned therein. Section 175 (1) of the Code empowers a police officer proceeding under

Section 174 thereof to summon, in writing, two or more persons as aforesaid for

the purpose of the said investigation, and any other person who appears to be

acquainted with the facts of the case and every person so summoned shall be

bound to attend and to answer truly all questions except those which would

adversely affect him in the manner mentioned therein. Reg. 299 finds place in Part IV of Chapter 6 of the said Regulations titled

"Unnatural Death and Injuries". Clause (a) of Reg.299 provides for submission of
 a First Information Form in B.P. Form No.48 in case of receipt of information of a

death occurring in any of the circumstances mentioned in Section 174 of the

Code. According to clause (b) thereof, the police officer concerned shall proceed to

the place where the body of the deceased person is and after making

investigation prescribed in Section 174 of the Code and making such further

enquiry as may be necessary, shall submit his final report to the nearest

Magistrate empowered to hold inquests. The investigation report signed by the

police officer and two or more respectable persons, as required by Section 174

shall be attached to the final report. Clause (c) prescribes submission of case

diaries in respect of enquiries into unnatural or suspicious deaths if the enquiry

lasts more than one day. Investigation report under Section 174 of the Code in B.P. Form No.48

must contain particulars regarding the District, the Police Station, the U.D. Case

number with date, dates of commencement and closure of investigation together

with information in respect of the following - The Court would proceed in the light of the above statutory provisions,

which are considered relevant, to decide the contentious issue. Regarding the scope and ambit of Section 174 of the Code, Mr.

Bandopadhyay has relied on the decisions of the Apex Court in Pedda Narayana

(supra) and Kodali Purnachandra Rao (supra). In paragraph 11 of the decision in Pedda Narayana (supra), it has been

held as follows : In Kodala Purnachandra Rao (supra), the Court ruled as follows: The view in Pedda Narayana (supra) has been approved by a larger bench

of the Apex Court in Khujji alias Surendra Tiwari vs. State of Madhya Pradesh reported in AIR 1991 SC 1853. A couple of months prior to the decision in Khujji (supra), a quorum of the

Apex Court consisting of the selfsame learned Judges had the occasion to deal

with Section 174 of the Code in Malkiat Singh vs. State of Punjab reported in

(1991) 4 SCC 341. In paragraph 12 of the said decision , the Court observed as

follows : (emphasis supplied)

 The word 'there' in Section 174 is most important. An inquest is therefore

to be conducted at the citus where a dead body is found (the death having

occurred in unnatural circumstances) for ascertaining the apparent cause of

death. Cause of death has to be ascertained on the basis of ocular impression of
 the officer conducting inquest and from information collected from persons (at

least two) present at the spot. However, in terms of Reg. 299 of the said Regulations, a report has to be

forwarded to the nearest Magistrate prior to the police officer proceeds for inquest

and the final report has to be forwarded after the inquest is complete. Although

Reg. 299 enables further enquiry, this Court has been unable to find any

statutory provision which entitles the police officer to keep in abeyance

submission of final report to the Magistrate awaiting report of post-mortem or

chemical examination. Those reports might suggest the exact cause of death. But

in terms of Section 174 of the Code the first impression of the police officer

conducting the inquest with regard to the apparent cause of death is important,

which has to be reproduced in the form of a report containing information in

respect of matters mentioned in B.P. Form No.48 referred to above . If such report

is to be delayed pending receipt of post-mortem or chemical examination report,

the object of the statutory provision to bring to the notice of the Magistrate at the

earliest the circumstances leading to the death would be frustrated. Merely

because a dead body is required to be sent for post mortem when the officer

conducting inquest entertains any doubt regarding the cause of death, there can

be no warrant for the proposition that the final report in terms of Reg. 299 must

await the expert's report. Reading the provisions of Section 174 as it is one after

the other and in between lines, this Court is inclined to hold that the final report

must be filed at the earliest possible opportunity and without any delay and must

not be held up for want of report throwing light on the exact cause of death or
 else the very purpose of Section 174 would be defeated. Reg. 299 cannot

supplant Section 174 of the Code or override it and on the authority of the

decision in Paramjit Singh (supra), it is held that Reg. 299 cannot be read or

construed in a manner to mean that it enables a police officer to file his final

report after obtaining expert opinion. For reasons aforesaid, the contention raised on behalf of the State and the

police officer respondents that a final report under Section 174 must await expert

opinion on post mortem and other examinations which might be necessary has

again not impressed this Court. This Court therefore shares the view expressed by the learned Judge that

after inquest, there is no scope for further enquiry/investigation under Section

174 of the Code and prima facie finding that investigation being carried on by the

CID is not in accordance with law is hereby confirmed. Before proceeding further, this Court may notice that in Lata Singh vs.

State of Uttar Pradesh reported in AIR 2006 SC 2522, the Apex Court felt the

necessity of making comments touching a matter of grave public concern (inter-

caste and inter religious marriages between majors) and held as follows: (emphasis supplied)

 Howsoever sincerely the judiciary at the highest level of the country may

think of bringing about union of people belonging to different communities and

religions through inter-caste and inter-religious marriages, in reality the situation

is a far cry. The case presented before this Court bears ample testimony thereof. Facts and circumstances which have surfaced in course of hearing the

present writ petition depict exactly the undesirable, unwarranted and deplorable

situation which the learned Judges anticipated and endeavoured to abort while

passing directions (supra) for taking suitable actions against the perpetrators of

harassment, threats and violence who fail to take inter-caste and inter-religious

marriages by near relatives in their stride. Unfortunately, the directions remain

on black and white without being cared for. The question that arises now is what was the nature of investigation that

was being conducted by the CID? Law is well settled that in terms of provisions

contained in the Code when a Magistrate makes an enquiry it is an enquiry,

otherwise it becomes an investigation. In the interim order dated 16.10.2007, the
 learned Judge considered a summons issued by the CID to a witness issued

under Section 175 of the Code dated 10.10.07. As noticed earlier, once the

inquest was complete further enquiry/investigation under Sections 174/175 of

the Code is not contemplated. The learned Judge thus observed that

investigation conducted by the CID was not in accordance with law. Though learned Advocate General and Mr. Pal have been critical of the

observations made by the Court in its order dated 16.10.2007, stand of the State

Government in this respect is nebulous to say the least. Despite repeated

opportunities extended to the State to file counter affidavit to the petition as

noted above, affidavits which have been filed do not clear the position. According

to the learned Advocate General, the order dated 28.2.2008 passed by this Court

was misconstrued and as such an affidavit touching only the point on which

affidavit was invited thereby was filed. Be that as it may, he contended that the

CID was conducting a preliminary enquiry before launching into an investigation

and that such enquiry is permissible having regard to the decisions of the Apex

Court in Sirajuddin (supra), Bhagwant Kishore Joshi (supra), Bhajan Lal (supra)

and Rajinder Singh Katoch (supra). True it is that the complaint lodged by the petitioner no.2 with the Karaya

Police Station on 22.9.2007 did not in so many words disclose the commission of

a cognizable offence resulting in the unnatural death of Riz. Viewed in isolation,

non-registration of a cognizable case on the basis thereof may not be faulted.

But, at the same time, there was clear indication therein of the suspicion that

respondent no.12 might have a hand in such unnatural death. What the
 petitioner no.2 intended to convey was that respondent no.12 had been

threatening Riz with dire consequences for having married his daughter and,

therefore, could be held responsible for his death. The chain of circumstances

preceding and following this complaint (some could very well have been

suspected) being of some significance deserves to be noted. The chain viz. (i) inter

religious marriage between Riz and Priyanka; (ii) Riz and Priyanka being aware

that such marriage would not be accepted by her family; (iii) letters to various

police officers, jointly written by Riz and Priyanka, in anticipation of unlawful

interference in their marital life by respondent no. 12; (iv) apathy of the Kolkata

Police to provide any protection to the married couple; (v) futile attempt of

respondent no.12 to persuade Priyanka to return home; (vi) complaints lodged by

Pradeep Todi alleging abduction of Priyanka by Riz; (vii) enquiries made by Pulak

Dutta, S.I. attached to Karaya Police Station reporting that the couple are majors

and the certificate of marriage is genuine; (viii) enquiry made by the respondent

no.9 on being directed by respondents 5 and 8 and reporting to the same effect; (ix) summoning of Riz and Priyanka at Lal Bazar through the respondents 8 and

9 without a formal FIR and discussions in the chambers of respondents 5 and 7; (x) agreement between the parties - Priyanka to return within 7 days; (xi) breach

of agreement - Priyanka fails to return; (xii) abortive requests of Riz to allow

Priyanka to return; (xiii) mysterious death of Riz; (xiv) the Police Commissioner

of Kolkata without being impartial, declaring in a press conference that Riz had

committed suicide; and (xv) the CID conducting preliminary enquiry for days

together without registering FIR, - did afford reasonable ground to suspect foul
 play behind the unnatural death of Riz. On the basis of the surrounding

circumstances one could reasonably reach either of two conclusions, i.e. that

death of Riz had occurred as a result of commission of crime or that suffocating

circumstances, brought about by the respondent no.12 with his aides and allies,

for Riz tying the nuptial knot with Priyanka had resulted in such mental torture

that he decided to give up his life. To embark on an investigation of a cognizable

case, a police officer must have 'reason to suspect'. In the considered view of this

Court, the investigative machinery of the State police agency ought to have

activated itself by recording an FIR, if not for an offence under Section

302 / 506 / 120B of the IPC, but certainly under Section 306/506/120B thereof,

the ingredients wherefor were available. Reasons for suspecting commission of a

crime ought to have been governed and dictated by the circumstances without

looking for adequate proof of facts at that stage. Even if the unnatural death of

Riz did not reveal any foul play or even if the chain of circumstances did not

warrant recording of FIR under Sections 306 / 506 / 120B of the IPC,

circumstances which surfaced did provide reasonable grounds for the CID to at

least initiate criminal proceedings in terms of the directions of the Apex Court in Lata Singh (supra) against respondents 12 and 13, as well as Pradeep Todi, and

the city police officers who were instrumental in ensuring that the inter-religious

marriage between the two breaks up and Priyanka returns to her parental home.

Instead, the CID had been continuing investigation under Section 174 of the

Code more than 14 (fourteen) days after post mortem report was obtained. The State in its counter affidavit, as noted earlier, has not disclosed the

nature of enquiry undertaken by the CID and as such the extent to which such

enquiry progressed also could not be ascertained. In the present case, right from the press conference of the respondent no.3

an impression was sought to be given that Riz had committed suicide without

there being any provocation. The circumstances pointed out above were sufficient

to justify investigation into either the suspicion of murder or suspicion of

abetment of suicide. As has been held in Patel Lilabhai Ambalal (supra), it is

elementary for the police to suspect everything and everyone and thereafter by

process of elimination and inclusion come to the conclusion, - the conclusion

being the last thing on the completion of investigation and not the first thing at

the beginning of the investigation. It was entirely for the CID to decide upon its next course of action, but to

contend that a preliminary enquiry was resorted to and result thereof was

awaited has failed to impress this Court. While the need for preliminary enquiry in particular cases before

conducting an investigation of a cognizable offence cannot be obliterated, in the

guise of a preliminary enquiry and by unduly prolonging it a legitimate

investigation which may be had cannot be stifled. Conducting preliminary

enquiry before recording FIR is not mandatory in all cases. In some of the

decisions cited by Mr. Bandopadhyay, preliminary enquiry in respect of a

complaint disclosing commission of cognizable offence has been held to be

unknown in the scheme of the Code. However, on careful consideration of the
 decisions cited by learned Senior Counsel for the respondents on the point of

preliminary enquiry, this Court would hold preliminary enquiry of a limited

nature to be permissible even in respect of cognizable cases. Persons of 'high

profile', dignitaries, persons in authority, celebrities, etc. are sometimes at the

receiving end due to reckless allegations, mostly made anonymously, which

might mar their respective careers and to obliterate the possibility of their

unnecessary involvement in such cases that a preliminary enquiry may be had to

ascertain facts. Such enquiry would also be advisable if a pure civil dispute is

sought to be brought within the arena of criminal law by the complainant to

wreak vengeance against an adversary. There can, however, be no exhaustive

enumeration of cases warranting preliminary enquiry but each case has to be

considered on the basis of its own peculiar facts. Considering the facts of the present case, this Court is unable to hold

that the prevailing circumstances did not warrant lodging of an FIR by the CID

for conducting a full-fledged investigation. The possibility of killing time in the

guise of ascertaining facts in course of preliminary enquiry to shield offenders

including high ranking police officers cannot be ruled out. To this extent, this

Court holds the CID to be grossly negligent. Borrowing the words of Hon'ble

Pathak, J. (as His Lordship then was) in Bhagwant Singh (supra), this Court

holds that the "investigation by the police following the occurrence was desultory

and lackadaisical, and showed want of appreciation of the emergent need to get at

the truth of the case." Submission of Mr. Pal that the decision in Sampat Lal (supra) does not lay

down a law having the force of a binding precedent and the conclusion reached

regarding power of the High Court to direct investigation by the CBI where the

State Government does not grant consent for such investigation, is misconceived. In paragraph 13, the Apex Court held: (emphasis supplied)

 Reflection of the opinion of the Apex Court was based on its independent

consideration of the provisions of the DSPE Act , apart from the fact that counsel

appearing for the parties before it did not dispute the position that when a

direction is given by the Court in an appropriate case, consent envisaged under Section 6 thereof would not be a condition precedent. The submission of Mr. Pal

is therefore unacceptable. On very many occasions, Courts have ordered CBI investigation in the

interest of fair and impartial investigation as well as in the interest of the State

Police agencies, to avoid any doubt on credibility of the investigation. Reference

in this connection may be made to the decision in Md. Anis (supra). In Central Bureau of Investigation vs. State of Gujarat (supra), it was held

that where the investigating agency is not doing proper investigation and/or

there is reason to believe that there is laxity in the investigation, a direction may

be given to the CBI to investigate the matter in appropriate cases. In Gudalure M.J. Cherian (supra), it has been held that in a given

situation, to do justice between the parties and to instill confidence in the public

mind it may become necessary to ask the CBI to investigate a crime. In R.S. Sodhi (supra), CBI was entrusted with investigation since

accusations were directed against the local police personnel to ensure that all

concerned including the relatives of the deceased may feel assured that an

independent agency is looking into the matter and that would lend the final

outcome of the investigation credibility. In Central Bureau of Investigation vs. State of Rajasthan (supra), it was

held that powers of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution and of

the Supreme Court under Article 32 or Article 142(1) of the Constitution can be

invoked thought sparingly for giving such direction to CBI to investigate in

certain cases. The question as to whether law laid down in Sampat Lal (supra) could be

considered to be a binding precedent on the face of reference of the issue to a

Constitution Bench was considered by the Division Bench of this Court in

Association for Protection of Democratic Rights (supra). It was held therein as

under: While noticing the decision in Shashikant (supra) wherein it was held that

when a reference of a vital question of law is made to a Larger Bench all other

proceedings pending in other Courts do not come to a grinding halt, the Division

Bench satisfied itself on facts and in the circumstances before it that it would be

necessary to have the entire fact situation investigated by the CBI and directed

accordingly. In Sahngoo Ram Arya (supra) relied on by Mr. Ghosh the Apex Court has

reminded the High Courts not to direct CBI investigation as a matter of course

and that there is a need for the High Court on consideration of the pleadings with

reference to the reply filed to come to the conclusion and to record a prima facie

satisfaction that the material before it is sufficient to direct an enquiry by the

CBI. What Section 6 ordains is that the Central Govt. may not direct

investigation by CBI without consent of that State in any area within the State

other than a Union Territory or a railway area but such fetter in Section 6 of the

DSPE Act does not in any manner affect or restrict the power, authority and

competence of the Court exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 to direct

investigation by the CBI. It is too obvious that for directing investigation by CBI, the Court has to

satisfy itself that investigation by the State agency has faltered to such extent

that continuation thereof would be farcical and manifestly result in injustice. And

it is trite that Mandamus is issued wherever injustice is traced. Though while passing the interim order dated 16.10.07 the Court did not

have the benefit of considering the version of the respondents on affidavits, the

materials presented were duly considered and on the basis of appreciation

thereof prima facie satisfaction was recorded by the Court that investigation was

not proper and therefore the CBI was directed to investigate the cause of death of

Riz. Regard being had to the facts and circumstances which fell for

consideration on 16.10.07, this Court is of the considered view that entrusting

the CBI with investigation of cause of death of Riz cannot be said to be improper

or unwarranted. This Court therefore holds that the Court was perfectly justified

in directing CBI investigation. These issues are answered accordingly. Issue No.7

 This has been a hotly debated issue at the Bar as would appear from the

submissions of learned Counsel for the parties recorded above. Learned Counsel for the respondents except the CBI have contended that

the CBI acted ultra vires in registering an FIR for alleged offence of murder and,

therefore, all steps taken on the basis thereof are null and void and hence

inoperative. To decide this issue it would be worthwhile to take a further look to the

direction of the Court dated 16.10.07 which reads a follows: In this connection, this Court also considers it necessary to extract a

passage from the decision of the Apex Court in H.N. Rishbud (supra) dealing with

'investigation' under the Code. It reads thus: In Bhagwant Kishore Joshi (supra), the position emerging from Section 157

of the Code was reiterated that an officer in charge of a police station can start

investigation either on information or otherwise. In the present case it is an admitted position on facts that when the order

dated 16.10.07 was passed by the Court, there was no FIR disclosing commission

of cognizable offence. On 22.9.07, the petitioner no.2 had by his complaint

informed Karaya Police Station about the unnatural death of Rizwanur and that

he suspected the hands of respondent no.12 behind his death. Immediately

thereafter, the CID had taken over investigation and had conducted investigation

which ultimately was declared to be 'not in accordance with law'. The Court

directed CBI to investigate the cause of unnatural death of Riz on 16.10.07 on

this petition in which the CBI was a respondent. In the petition it had been

alleged that Riz had been killed/murdered. As has been held in H.N. Rishbud
 (supra) and Bhagwant Kishore Joshi (supra), the CBI was empowered to conduct

investigation on the basis of information received otherwise than information

recorded under Section 154 of the Code. It has been contended on behalf of the CBI that it had proceeded to

register an FIR taking into consideration the contents of the writ petition.

Learned Advocate General has contended that such a course of action was

impermissible without seizing copy of the writ petition. This Court is afraid, it

cannot agree with him. CBI being a respondent in the writ petition and having

been served with a copy thereof in accordance with the rules framed by this

Court which requires (subject to exceptions) service of copy of petition on the

respondents in each case where interim relief is prayed for which might affect

them, the CBI was well within its jurisdiction to note the contents of copy of the

writ petition supplied to it and to act on the basis thereof. It has not been shown

before this Court that contents of copy of the writ petition supplied to the CBI by

the petitioners was on any score different from the petition filed in Court or copy

of the same supplied to the State. The need to seize the original, therefore, would

not arise. Information disclosed to the CBI through the writ petition would

constitute information received from sources other than a complaint registered as

an FIR under Section 154 of the Code which the CBI was empowered to

investigate under section 157 thereof and thus this Court finds no illegality on

the part of the CBI in proceeding to register an FIR on the basis of the writ

petition. There are two other reasons for which this Court is inclined to hold that

the CBI's action in registering an FIR is defensible. The Court in its order dated 16.10.07 had ruled, albeit on prima facie

satisfaction, that investigation under Sections 174/175 of the Code after inquest

was complete could not be conducted in law. It has been correctly contended by

Mr. Roy that once the Court held that investigation under Sections 174/175

could not be conducted after inquest was complete, argument of the respondents

that investigation should have been confined only to unnatural death and to

ascertain its cause within the limits of Section 174, is fallacious. It is

preposterous to suggest, even on the face of recording of such a finding, that by

directing investigation to be made by the CBI to find the cause of 'unnatural

death' of Riz the Court intended to have an investigation conducted limited to the

nature permissible under Section 174 of the Code. The Court's order cannot be

read as a statute divorced from the facts of the case and terms of the order.

Understandably, the direction for conducting investigation implied registration of

an FIR preceding investigation and, therefore, had to be treated as one casting an

obligation on the CBI to first register a case and thereafter proceed to find out the

cause of death, whether suicidal or homicidal. Having regard to the facts and circumstances which were on record,

accidental death of Riz was ruled out. Therefore, in order to find out whether the

death was suicidal or homicidal, the CBI being empowered to exercise powers

conferred on the police to investigate under Chapter XII of the Code could have

done so only on recording an FIR. Action taken by the CBI in this behalf does not
 appear to this Court to be offending either the power conferred on it by the Code

or the order dated 16.10.07. It has been contended on behalf of the respondents

that the CBI has interpreted the order dated 16.10.07 by reading words therein,

otherwise absent, without seeking any clarification. If the CBI had proceeded on

the basis of its own interpretation of the order which does not appear to be

absurd or unreasonable, the Court would not invalidate the impugned action on

the ground that the CBI ought to have approached the Court for further

clarification instead of taking recourse to a particular action. It would have been

a discreet action on the part of the CBI but mere indiscretion, without anything

more, cannot be equated with malafides. That apart, in the decisions in Madhu Bala (supra), Suresh Chand Jain

(supra) and Md. Yusuf (supra), the Apex Court has held that when a Magistrate

orders the police to conduct investigation under Section 156(3) of the Code, that

would include a direction to the police to register an FIR in the absence of any

such direction given by such Magistrate and the police would have to take

further steps contemplated in Chapter XII of the Code only thereafter. Viewed in

this perspective and on the authority of what have been laid down therein, the

CBI was justified in recording an FIR before it proceeded to conduct investigation. The numerous decisions cited by the learned Senior Counsel for the State,

the respondent police officers, the respondent no.12 and learned Counsel for the

respondent no.13 in support of their contention to the contrary have been

carefully looked into. The CBI exercised power for an authorised purpose and in

accordance with law. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the present
 case, the cited decisions are not apposite since the situation for applying the

ratio thereof is non-existent. This Court thus holds that in registering an FIR and in conducting

investigation on the basis thereof, the CBI did not act ultra vires. This issue is answered in favour of the CBI. Issue No.8

 In its order dated 28.2.08, this Court for reasons recorded did not accede

to the request of the parties for supply of copy of the CBI's report but the issue

was left upon for being considered at the time of final hearing. Parties have again

addressed the Court on the point of supply of copy of the report. Several

decisions have been cited by Mr. Pal in support of his submission that looking

into the report by the Court without extending opportunity to the parties to look

into the same would be against judicial principles as well as natural justice. The

decisions cited by Mr. Pal mostly relate to disciplinary proceedings initiated

against delinquent employees. The rules regarding disciplinary proceedings are

not quite identical as rules that are required to be followed in conducting

investigation of a criminal case or in criminal proceedings. As part of compliance

with natural justice principles, a delinquent employee who has been proceeded

against by initiation of a disciplinary proceeding is entitled to have a copy or to

look into any document which the prosecution seeks to rely on against him in the

enquiry or which the Enquiry Officer may consider relevant for the purpose of

enquiry. Such an employee is also entitled to have copy of any document or to
 have inspection thereof which is in the custody of the employer and is considered

by him to be relevant for his defence, the question of relevancy being an issue

required to be decided by the Enquiry Officer. Depriving the delinquent employee

of such opportunity having regard to the fact situation of each case may result in

violation of principles of natural justice. So far as criminal proceedings are

concerned, the stages at which documents may be made available to parties

interested are laid down in the Code itself. It would thus be open to the parties to

apply for the same in accordance with provisions contained in the Code. Not a

single decision has been cited before this Court which lays down the law that

while a Court looks into information and/or documents collected in course of

criminal investigation at the pre-charge sheet stage, the Court is obliged to

supply such document to an aggrieved party who intends to look into the same

before the Court renders a decision in respect thereof. In the present case,

criminal proceedings against some of the respondents are in an embryonic stage.

Evidence has been collected and it has been reported to this Court by the CBI

that a prima facie case for proceeding further against them before the appropriate

Court for alleged involvement in commission of offences punishable under the IPC exists and leave has been prayed for to enable it to file charge sheet before

the appropriate Court of law. Till such time the Magistrate takes cognizance of

the alleged offences committed by the accused, it cannot be said that criminal

proceedings are pending against anyone. There is no determination of guilt by

this Court on the basis of the report of the CBI. If a charge sheet is filed before

the competent Court and it takes cognizance and asks the charge-sheeted
 accused persons to stand trial, the accused persons would be within their right

to seek documents in accordance with the provisions of the Code as also in the

light of the decision in Debendra Nath Padhi (supra). In such circumstances, the

contention that since the report of the CBI has been placed before this Court and

the Court has looked into it, hence the parties are also entitled to look into the

same is obviously untenable. Learned Advocate General very humbly has submitted that contents of the

report might unknowingly influence the mind of the Court. Also, Mr. Pal has

contended that non-supply of the report of the CBI would give rise to a lurking

suspicion in the minds of the police officers that the Court had formed a view

against them without disclosing its contents to them. In the considered view of this Court, requirement to comply with natural

justice principles can be invoked where the Court or an adjudicator proceeds to

form an opinion against an individual on the basis of a document behind his

back. Whatever conclusion this Court has reached is based on its appreciation of

the pleadings of the parties and the records produced, which have been duly

inspected by the parties. The report of the CBI has been considered only for the

limited extent of ascertaining whether the CBI should be permitted to proceed

further in accordance with law. If the argument of Mr. Pal is to be accepted, then

in every case where a competent Court, empowered to deal with applications

under Sections 438 or 439 of the Code, looks into case diaries placed before it by

the Public Prosecutor, it would have to permit access to Advocates for the

accused to the case diaries. This would be a course of action dehors the Code
 and contrary to principles settled in Debendra Nath Padhi (supra). So long the

investigation is not closed by way of filing of a formal report under Section 173(2)

of the Code, persons who might be shown as accused in the FIR have no right to

claim copy of the report containing materials which have been collected against

them and particularly in view of the fact that report filed before this Court is not

a final report but is one in aid of the final report. This Court therefore has no reason to take a view different from the one

taken on 28.2.08 when the prayer of the parties was rejected for the time being.

It is accordingly held that the respondents have no right to look into the report of

the CBI and to have copy thereof. This issue is answered accordingly. Issue No.9

 Mr. Pal, as noted above, subjected the recommendations contained in the

report of the CBI for initiation of departmental proceedings (major penalty

proceedings) against the respondent nos. 5, 7, 8 and 9 to severe criticism.

According to him, the CBI had no business to make such recommendation. Mr.

Roy sought to counter the contention by referring to Chapter 20 of the Manual.

According to him provisions contained in Manual have statutory force and in

terms of provisions contained in the said chapter, recommendations made by the

CBI for initiation of departmental action cannot be faulted. Clause 20.4 of Chapter 20 being relevant is set out hereunder: It has been conceded by Mr. Roy that the report filed before this Court is

not under Section 173(2) of the Code but to enable the Court to satisfy itself that

an appropriate investigation has been conducted in terms of its order. Having regard to the facts that the report was one to assist the Court to

record a satisfaction that the cause of death of Riz has been ascertained with

additional information relating to complicity of persons in connection therewith

and that chargesheet under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has

not been filed, it was beyond the jurisdiction of the CBI to include in its report

filed before this Court the recommendation for initiation of major penalty

proceedings against some of the police officers. As clause 20.4 provides, request

for initiation of disciplinary proceeding should be sent to the competent

disciplinary authority simultaneously with filing of chargesheet under Section

173 of the Code. The stage therefore has not yet arrived and at this stage it was

inappropriate for the CBI to state in unequivocal terms that grounds for initiating
 departmental action against the erring police officers did exist and that action

should be taken in that direction. Additionally, the CBI ought to have appreciate that the petitioners had

prayed for a declaration from this Court that the actions of the police officers

(respondents 5, 7, 8 and 9) are ultra vires. The issue being sub judice, it was

absolutely inappropriate for the CBI to make a recommendation in this direction

without obtaining leave from Court. This issue is accordingly answered in favour of the respondents 5, 7, 8 and 9.

Issue No.10

 Exercise of power of investigation by the CBI is governed by statutory

provisions under the general law applicable to such investigations. The dominant

purpose of registering a case is to ensure conducting of investigation in respect of

the allegations contained in the FIR and in the event sufficient materials exist in

support of the allegations, to present charge sheet before the Court for securing

the ultimate end of linking the offence with the offender. It is on record that while issuing notice under Section 160 of the Code the

CBI had clearly indicated the case number which was under investigation. The

FIR was despatched to the Court of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Calcutta

and to other Magistrates at Bankshall Court. Contention that the CBI faltered in

complying with Section 157 of the Code is without basis for the Court has
 ascertained in course of hearing that the Magistrates' Court referred to above

have duly received copy of the FIR. Submission of Mr. Ghosh that in the absence of any knowledge of an FIR

having been registered respondent no.12 could not challenge it is unmeritorious.

There was no embargo on the respondent no.12 to apply for the certified copy of

the FIR for the purpose of challenging it. That a defect or irregularity in

conducting investigation cannot vitiate the trial unless of course gross

miscarriage of justice has occasioned is settled law. Even otherwise, if there be

any irregularity in conducting investigation the same cannot vitiate the trial

which might ensue for it has not been demonstrated before this Court that there

has been such gross miscarriage of justice which would require interdiction by

this Court. Even if there be any irregularity or defect in investigation, those

aggrieved thereby would not be without remedy. It is settled law that decision to investigate or the decision on the agency

which would investigate does not attract principles of natural justice. The

accused cannot have a say in who should investigate the offences he is charged

with (see AIR 1997 SC 93 : Central Bureau of Investigation vs. Rajesh Gandhi ).

This Court in the earlier part of this judgment has expressed its concurrence

with the order of the Court dated 16.10.07 that the case at hand called for

investigation by the CBI. For reasons discussed above, this Court is unable to

concur with the learned Counsel for the respondents barring the CBI that the
 actions of the CBI are tainted. On the basis of materials collected, a prima facie

case exists for proceeding against persons named in the concluding portion of the

report extracted above. There is no reason as to why course of law should be

obstructed merely because it might not be to the liking of some of the

respondents. In view of the aforesaid discussion there appears to be no reason as to why

the CBI should not be allowed to proceed further. The issue is answered accordingly. Issue No.11

 Having regard to the aforesaid discussion, this Court grants liberty to the

CBI to proceed in accordance with law for filing charge sheet before the

competent court under Section 173(2) of the Code. There shall, however, be no

direction for further investigation as prayed for by Mr. Bandopadhyay regarding

discrepancy in age of the deceased as recorded in the official records but absolute

liberty is reserved to the CBI to conduct further investigation before it actually

files the charge sheet on any point it may consider necessary in the interest of

justice. However, it shall not act upon the proposal to recommend to the State

initiation of disciplinary proceedings for major penalty against respondents 5, 7,

8 and 9 or any other police officer. Since this Court has returned a finding that the city police officers

(respondents 5, 7, 8 and 9) invaded Riz's right to life without authority of law

while discharging duty as public servants, it is declared that they have acted

ultra vires and their acts impugned herein are unconstitutional. However, on the question as to what is the effective relief that ought to be

granted on facts and in the circumstances of the case vis-à-vis the prayers made

has presented its own difficulties. In view of the law laid down in Rani Laxmibai

(supra), an allegation of fact has to be pleaded in the petition for enabling the

adversary to meet it based on the principle that a party should not be caught

unawares at the hearing. But, rules regarding pleadings at least in respect of writ

petitions have been diluted to good extent by subsequent decisions. One may

profitably refer to the decision in State Bank of India vs S.N. Goyal reported in

2008 AIR SCW 4355 wherein it has been held that in writ proceedings, the High

Court can call for the record of the case, examine the same and pass appropriate

orders after giving an opportunity to the State/the statutory authority to explain

any particular act or omission, and that it is quite different from a civil suit

where the parties are governed by rules of pleadings and there can be no

adjudication of an issue in the absence of necessary pleadings. The decision in

Ganapati Madhav Sawant (supra) cited by Mr. Pal is therefore clearly

distinguishable. In the present case, the factual foundation for seeking effective

relief has been laid though a prayer in that behalf is absent. Parties have been

heard at length on the claim of Mr. Bandopadhyay that the State should be
 directed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the erring police officers. The

decision in Rani Laxmibai would, therefore, have no application on facts. This Court at the same time is not oblivious of the observations of Hon'ble

Sethi, J. (as His Lordship then was) in Lily Thomas vs. Union of India reported in

(2000) 6 SCC 224 that "justice is a virtue which transcends all barriers and the

rules or procedures or technicalities of law cannot stand in the way of

administration of justice. Law has to bend before justice." Though the petitioners have not claimed any relief against the respondent

no.3 as also against respondents 5, 7, 8 and 9 consequent to declaration that

was sought and has been granted, in the considered view of this Court interest of

justice would be best served if liberty is reserved unto the State to proceed in

accordance with law. Accordingly, it is observed that the State may initiate such

action as it deems fit and proper against any of or all the respondents 3, 5, 7, 8,

9, 12 and 13 in accordance with law. Observations made and/or findings recorded in this order are wholly for

the purpose of a decision on this writ petition and the same shall not influence or

prejudice the adjudicator of future criminal proceedings, if initiated according to

law. The writ petition stands allowed, while the applications stand dismissed.

However, parties shall bear their own costs. Report of the CBI together with the compact disc placed on record by

Kolkata T.V. shall be re-sealed by the Assistant Court Officer and retained with

the records of the case. Urgent photostat certified copy of this judgment, if applied for, be furnished

to the applicant within 4 days from date of putting in requisites therefor. (DIPANKAR DATTA, J.)
 Later :