I have gone through the painstaking well versed judgment of My Lord the Hon'ble
Mr. Justice Sanjib Banerjee. I fully endorse his view. Yet I wish to add few lines
looking at the problem slightly from a different angle. The owners would contend, section 14(3)(c)(iii) would specifically debar a
developer to file a suit for specific performance against the owner of the property.
They would gain support from Vipin Bhimani (supra). They would also contend,
we must give literal meaning to the provision that the Apex Court recognized as
the golden principle of interpretation as observed in Lalu Prasad Yadav Vs.
State of Bihar (supra). The relevant extract of section 14 is set out below: The golden rule of interpretation so observed by the Apex Court is well recognized
for decades. There is one more rule prevalent i.e., the Court of law must
interpret a provision by giving harmonious construction presuming, all statutory
provisions are coherent and would have no conflict with each other unless it is
apparent and unless it is made specific by a non-obstante clause. If we look to
section 10, we would find, the contract could be enforced when there would exist
no standard for ascertaining actual damage and damage, even if granted in terms
of the money, would not afford adequate relief. The explanation would further
make it clear that a breach of a contract to transfer immovable property could
not be adequately relieved by compensation in money. Hence, a contract dealing
with an immovable property under Section 10 along with its explanation would
presumably suggest enforcement that would be controlled by Section 14. Let us now try to find out whether there was any specific bar stipulated in the
said provision. It is true sub-Section (3) would start with a non-obstante clause
that would, however, exclude sub-Section (1)(a) and (c) and not any other
provision of the said Act. Sub-Section (1)(a) would grant adequate money relief
whereas sub-Section (1)(c) would talk about a determinable contract. Sub-Section
(3)(c) would make a contract relating to an immovable property enforceable in
case of construction or execution of any other work on the said property. The
 proviso would, however, make certain contracts outside the purview that would
include sub-Section (3)(c). The sub-Section would exclude the contract where the
defendant obtains possession of the whole or the part of the property on which
the building was to be constructed or other work to be executed. Vipin Bhimani
would suggest, the sub-Section would debar a construction agreement that
would include development agreement. We fail to appreciate. If Vipin Bhimani is
correct and the developer is the plaintiff in a suit, the defendant obviously would
be the owner. If we put the word "owner" in place of defendant in Clause (iii) the
sub-Section would have no meaning at all. It would rather lead to the other
interpretation. Clause (iii) would talk about a simpliciter construction agreement
that a mason or a contractor would not be permitted to enforce by taking the plea
of specific performance if the owner terminates its contract and prays for
recovery of possession. Other way round, a mason or a construction contractor
simpliciter would not be entitled to ask for specific performance of the
construction contract. The logic is simple. When someone is asked to build a
house on a specified consideration and the owner subsequently terminates the
contract, even if the termination is held to be unlawful the contractor would be
entitled to adequate money relief that he would get as and by way of
compensation as he did not have any interest attached to the land in question,
except permission to construct the house that too, as per the desire of the owner. There is one more test that I would like to put Vipin Bhimani (Supra) to
ascertain its veracity. Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act 1882 would
suggest, a contract for the sale of immovable property is a contract that a sale of
such property shall take place on terms settled between the parties. It does not,
of itself, create any interest in or charge on such property. So an agreement for
sale would ipso facto not create any charge or interest over the property. Hence,
the nature of the contract has to be ascertained. Section 53A of the said Act would suggest, if a proposed transferee of an
immovable property under an agreement for sale is put in possession and
 continues in possession in part performance of the contract and does some act in
furtherance of the contract and is willing to perform the balance part, his
possession would be protected and the transferor would be debarred from
dispossessing him other than under a right expressly provided by the terms of
the contract. The development agreement is also an agreement for sale subject to
certain conditions. In short, it is an agreement for conditional sale. If we accept
Vipin Bhimani and deny a developer specific performance of such a contract
where he was put into possession by the owner and he continued to act in
furtherance of the contract, we would still not be in a possession to permit the
plaintiff to dispossess him in view of the express provision of Section 53A of the
said Act of 1882. At the end, if a developer files a suit for specific performance of
a contract and the owner files a suit for recovery of possession we would have to
dismiss both on different logic, this would create a ridiculous situation. Court of
law is duty bound to resolve the controversy as far as practicable that is brought
before it. The Court of law is not entitled to complicate the issue by making the
controversy more complicated. On that analogy Vipin Bhimani must fail. If we look to Section 202 of the Indian Contract Act 1872, we would find, when
the agent had interest in the property under the agency agreement in absence of
an express provision the contract could not be terminated to the prejudice of
such interest. Section 203 would permit the principal to revoke the authority of
his agent subject however; when the agent partly exercised his authority such
revocation would not be permissible under Section 204. If we read these three
provisions together and try to answer the second query made to us by His
Lordship we would find, the Power of Attorney so revoked by the owner should
not be looked at in an isolated manner. The Power of Attorney generally issued to
the developer, was in continuation of the original agreement for development of
the property meaning thereby, the developer who was entrusted to develop the
property would be given authority to do further act as per the contract including
dealing with the property to the extent permissible under the contract. Hence,
 the Power of Attorney was nothing but an agency agreement executed in
furtherance of the original contract. If the original contract creates an interest in favour of the developer even if the
Power of Attorney is revoked such interest would not evaporate. Hence, the
analogy under the Contract Act would also lead to the conclusion; Vipin
Bhimani did not speak of the correct proposition of law. Thus I agree and fully endorse the view of My Lord. (Ashim Kumar Banerjee, J.)

SANJIB BANERJEE, J. : - By a subsequent order on the same day on February 7, 2013, CO No. 1431
of 2007 was also referred to a larger Bench with the observation that "a similar
and identical point is raised" in the matter as in CO No. 1358 of 2010. On
August 29, 2013 another single Judge of this court noticed the dichotomy of the
Division Bench views in Bhaskar Aditya and Vipin Bhimani and, in terms of the
order of February 7, 2013 in the two other matters, referred the identical
questions involved in CO No. 1222 of 2013 and CO No. 1502 of 2013 to the
larger Bench. Several judgments have been cited in course of the three sets of
submission on behalf of the developers. It is asserted that it cannot be said that
no suit for specific performance of the development agreement would be
maintainable by a developer only by reason of Section 14(3)(c) of the Specific
Relief Act, 1963. It is suggested that the agency created by the owner in favour
of the developer pursuant to a development agreement, embodied in any power
of attorney executed for such purpose, comes along with an interest in the
property which forms the subject-matter of the agency. The substance of the
submission on behalf of the developers is that the relief for specific performance,
if claimed by a developer against an owner, may be declined on facts but it
cannot be said that no suit for specific performance of the development
agreement can be maintained by the developer in law. The developers refer to the Specific Relief Act, 1877 and compare Section
21 of such Act with Section 14 of the 1963 Act. The developers point out that Section 14(3)(c) had no predecessor provision in the earlier enactment. The developers, however, tread with caution to suggest that an interest in
the property is created in favour of the developer as a result of the development
agreement such that a power of attorney executed by the owner in favour of the
developer may not be terminated to the prejudice of such interest. The
developers refer to Section 54 of the
Transfer of Property Act, 1882 and the definition of a contract for sale therein
which specifically records that a contract for sale of an immovable property does
not, of itself, create any interest in or charge on such property. The developers contend that there can be only three possibilities: first, any
suit for specific performance lodged by a developer against the owner of the land
which is the subject-matter of the development agreement would not be
maintainable; or, second, that the suit may be maintainable but no relief may be
granted for specific performance; or, third, that it would depend on the facts in
every suit and the nature of the agreement which is the subject-matter of the
suit as to whether the suit would be maintainable and as to whether some relief
in the suit may be granted. The developers first refer to a judgment reported at (1980) 3 SCC 545 ( Bai
Dosabai v. Mathurdas Govinddas ) for the recognition therein that the equitable
ownership in property recognised by equity in English law is translated into
Indian law as an obligation annexed to the ownership of the property, not
amounting to an interest in the property, but an obligation which may be
enforced against a transferee with notice or a gratuitous transferee. The
Supreme Court noticed the final paragraph in Section 54 of the Transfer of
Property Act that a contract for sale of an immovable property does not, of itself,
create any interest in or charge on such property and contrasted such provision
against Section 40 of the Transfer of Property Act. The first of the judgments of this court cited on the legal issues that have
arisen is the one reported at (1982) 1 CHN 377 ( State of West Bengal v. Anil
Kumar Bhuiya ). The question involved in that case was whether a contract for
 execution of a public utility work rescinded by the State could be specifically
enforced by the contractor. The Division Bench held that a contract for carrying
out construction work would not be specifically enforceable in view of Sections
10 and 14 of the 1963 Act except in exceptional cases; and, no exception had
been made out in that case . In the next judgment of this court, in order of time, placed by the
developers, Bhaskar Aditya, the miscellaneous appeal to this court arose from
the rejection of an interlocutory application for appointment of a receiver in a
suit for partition and injunction. It is necessary that such judgment be looked at
in some detail since the view in Vipin Bhimani is perceived to be contrary thereto
and since the dictum in Bhaskar Aditya has been accepted in more than one
Division Bench judgment despite noticing Vipin Bhimani. The suit was filed by some of the co-sharers of the property against other
co-sharers and the developer. The developer had entered into an agreement for
developing the property with some of the parties who claimed to be, between
themselves, the absolute owners of the property, but who, according to the
plaintiffs, were only co-owners thereof. On the plaintiffs' interlocutory
application an order was passed for maintaining status quo in respect of the
nature, character and possession of the property. During the pendency of such
application, the defendant- developer applied for the appointment of a receiver
over the property. The application for receiver was rejected. An appeal against
such order resulted in this court directing re-hearing of the application on
merits since the rejection was only on the ground that there was a subsisting
order of status quo in respect of the property. The defendant-developer's
application for appointment of a receiver was thereafter rejected on merits
against which an appeal was preferred in which the judgment in Bhaskar Aditya
came to be pronounced. In the appeal, certain persons claiming to have entered
into agreements for purchase of the flats constructed on the suit property were
granted leave to intervene. The developer's prayer for appointment of a receiver
 was not for the receiver to merely be in symbolic or actual possession of the suit
property or the three buildings constructed on a part of the suit property or even
the flats in the three buildings; the prayer was for the receiver to execute deeds
of conveyance in favour of those persons with whom the developer had entered
into agreements for sale of some of the flats. It cannot be missed that both the
plaintiffs and such of the defendants who claimed to be the exclusive owners of
the land did not oppose the construction to be completed; they only objected to
the flats being conveyed without the issue as to the ownership of the suit land
being resolved. It was in such context that the Division Bench observed in Bhaskar Aditya
that a "development agreement is a kind of assignment of interest in the
property somewhat similar to an agreement for sale ... it cannot be denied that
the developer ... has acquired interest in the property after the development
scheme is undertaken." (Paragraph 12.1) The Division Bench then went on to
observe as follows at paragraph 12.2 of the report: The Division Bench also noticed Section 204 of the Contract Act, 1872 that
disentitles a plaintiff from revoking the authority given to his agent after the
authority has been partly exercised, "so far as regards such acts and obligations
as arise from acts already done in the agency." In the context of the developer in
that case having partly exercised the authority given to the developer as agent by
the owner as principal, it was held at paragraph 12.4 of the report that the
 developer had acquired a right to specifically enforce the development
agreement: Another Division Bench judgment reported at (2003) 1 CHN 14 (Satguru
Nirman Pvt. Ltd v. Narayan Chandra Paul) is next cited by the developers. The
appellant before this court had filed a suit claiming, inter alia, a permanent
injunction restraining the defendant-owner from executing any construction
work or undertaking the construction of any building at the suit premises
through any person other than the plaintiff and for specific performance of the
agreement between the parties. As would be evident from paragraph 2 of the
judgment, the court regarded the plaintiff to be the developer and the defendant
to be the owner of the suit land. The agreement between the parties was for the
construction of a four-storied building whereat the owner would be entitled to
38% of the constructed area along with a further sum of Rs. 8 lakh. The issue
that arose in the interlocutory appeal was whether the plaintiff therein was
entitled to a temporary injunction to restrain the defendant from engaging any
developer or other to commence or complete the construction work. It was
asserted that possession of the suit property had been made over by the
defendant to the plaintiff and some construction work had already been
undertaken by the plaintiff. As an alternative to the blanket order of temporary
injunction, a further interlocutory prayer was also made that the injunction as
sought could remain in force till a joint inspection and measurement of the work
undertaken by the plaintiff was completed. The Division Bench referred to the
doctrine of lis pendens and the observation in a previous Division Bench
judgment reported at AIR 1988 Cal 25 ( Muktakesi Dawn v. Haripada Mazumdar )
that though the principle of lis pendens takes care of all pendente lite transfers, if
an injunction was not obtained against the owner and a third party purchased
the property bona fide without notice of the pending litigation and incurred
 substantial expenses for improvement of the property, the court could exercise its
discretion in declining to enforce the decree suffered by the original owner
against the subsequent purchaser. The owner in Satguru Nirman Pvt. Ltd raised a
defence under Section 14(3)(c) of the 1963 Act to suggest that the plaintiff did not
come under the exceptions recognised therein and the court declined to interfere
with the order merely on the following grounds as evident from paragraphs 27
and 28 of the report: It is of some significance that despite specifically referring to Section 14 of
the 1963 Act and clause (c) of sub-section (3) thereof in the discussion relevant
in the judgment, the Division Bench did not find that the suit was altogether not
maintainable. The judgment found that the developer in that case was not
entitled to the interlocutory order sought; or, that the discretion had been
judiciously exercised by the trial court and it did not call for any interference. In another Division Bench judgment of this court reported at AIR 2005 Cal
274 ( Kalidas Sadhu v. Sushil Kumar Agarwal ), a miscellaneous appeal was
carried to this court by a defendant in a suit for declaration and injunction. The
order impugned required the parties to maintain status quo as on the date of the
order in respect of the suit property till the disposal of the suit. The declaration
sought in the suit was that a letter issued by the defendant was void and the
consequential injunction was for restraining the defendant from, inter alia,
entering into any agreement with any third party for development of the suit
property or making any construction thereon. The agreement in that case required the defendant-owner to hand over the suit property to the plaintiff free
from all encumbrances. Upon it subsequently being discovered that there were
huge liabilities in respect of the land, the defendant-owner required the developer
to pay off the dues of the suit property. The developer incurred substantial
further expenses for development of the site and took steps to have a building
plan sanctioned for the construction to be made on the suit property. The parties
subsequently agreed that a power of attorney would be executed in favour of the
developer by the owner. Upon the developer preparing a draft power of attorney
for the execution thereof by the owner, the owner denied the original agreement
between the parties and any liability thereunder. After subsequent negotiations,
the original agreement was modified and recorded in the minutes of a meeting
attended by the parties. Pursuant to such modified agreement, the developer
called upon the owner to discharge the owner's part of the bargain; whereupon
the owner sought to cancel the agreement. The suit was filed challenging such
cancellation and seeking an injunction in respect of the suit property. It was
contended on behalf of the owner, on the basis of the dictum in Satguru Nirman
Pvt. Ltd, that since the plaintiff had an alternative remedy of damages for breach
of contract, no injunction should have been passed which would tantamount to
specific performance of the agreement. The Division Bench modified the order
impugned by making the injunction conditional upon a sum of Rs. 30 lakh not
being deposited by way of security. The court did not find that the suit, in effect,
for specific performance of the agreement, was not maintainable and the court, of
 its own accord, considered a possible relief in damages without the plaint
indicating such a relief in terms of Section 21(5) of the 1963 Act. Paragraph 15 of
the report is of some relevance: The next judgment in point of time referred to by the developers is the one
rendered in Vipin Bhimani. The miscellaneous appeal in that case was at the instance of the plaintiffs
upon the refusal of the trial court to grant an ad interim order in a suit where the
primary relief sought was for specific performance of an agreement for
development and construction of a part of a property. The agreement envisaged
that the plaintiffs would arrange for the suit property to be vacated by the
tenants and occupants through negotiation; obtain necessary permissions and
sanction of the building plan; and, construct a new building where 58% of the
constructed area with the proportionate share in the land, common areas, roof
and car parking place would be allotted to the defendants and the balance 42%
would be available for the plaintiffs. Irrevocable powers of attorney were
executed by the two defendants in favour of the plaintiffs. A formal agreement in
writing recording the terms and conditions of the development of the suit
property was drafted and apparently approved by the owners and, though the
security deposit of Rs.30 lakh was also deposited by the plaintiffs, the owners
refused to sign the agreement. The plaintiffs had also expended substantial
amounts to have the occupants at the suit property agree to make over vacant
 possession thereof and even an architect had been appointed for designing the
proposed building after obtaining clearances from the Urban Land Ceiling
authorities and the fire services. The court found, at paragraph 11 of the report, "that a suit for specific
performance of a development agreement at the instance of a developer is clearly
hit" by the provisions of Section 14(3)(c) of the 1963 Act. The Division Bench also
observed that a suit for specific performance of such agreement would be
"maintainable at the instance of the owner if possession is already handed over to
the developer and clauses (i) and (ii) of section 14(3)(c) are complied with." As to
the powers of attorney executed by the owners in that case, the Division Bench
held that the plaintiffs were not entitled to any injunction on the basis thereof.
Paragraphs 11 and 16 of the report must be seen to discern how the questions
raised in the present reference were answered in that judgment by the Division
Bench: The judgment next in point of time cited by the developers is reported at
(2006) 2 Cal LT 187 (HC) ( Bimal Kumar Khetawat v. Dhan Daulat Holding Limited )
by the same Division Bench which rendered the verdict in Vipin Bhimani. The
suit in that case was instituted by a person claiming to be the assignee of the
developer's interest in the development agreement who had paid substantial
monies to the original developer and had incurred expenses for the development
of the property. The formal agreement of assignment of the original developer's
rights was not executed and the grievance of the plaintiff was that the original
developer had refused to sign a draft agreement since the original developer was
seeking to have the project completed by a third party. An ad interim order of
injunction was refused. On a first miscellaneous appeal from such order of
refusal of the ad interim injunction, a limited order of status quo as regards the
nature and character of the property was passed at the initial stage of the appeal.
The original developer applied before this court for vacating the ad interim order
of injunction passed in the appeal. The injunction earlier granted was modified
and the trial court was directed to dispose of the injunction application before it
within a specified time. The modified order of injunction restrained the first
defendant-original developer from assigning the rights under the development
agreement to any other person. The injunction application was disposed of by the
trial court by directing status quo to be maintained in respect of transfer, sale
and alienation of the developer's allocation of the constructed property. It was
such final order of interlocutory injunction that was the subject-matter of the
judgment cited. The Division Bench noticed the conduct of the first defendant-
developer in not being willing to refund the money obtained from the plaintiff,
made a distinction between the developer's allocation of the constructed area and
the second defendant-owner's allocation thereof and modified the impugned
 order by allowing the original developer to deal with his allocation of the
constructed area subject to refund of the money due to the plaintiff. The
reasoning in support of such order appears from paragraphs 12 and 13 of the
report: Two subsequent judgments of another Division Bench have next been
placed by the developers. In the judgment reported at AIR 2007 Cal 293 ( Bimal
Ghosh v. Kalpana Majumdar ) the issue in an appeal from an order passed on a
petition under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 was
whether a negative covenant in a development agreement could be the basis for
an injunction in aid thereof. Though Section 42 of the 1963 Act was not
specifically referred to in the judgment, it was such principle which was applied
while distinguishing the dictum in Vipin Bhimani. Paragraph 12 of the report also
indicates that the Division Bench harboured reservations as to the ratio
decidendi in Vipin Bhimani, but did not go into such aspect since it was not
necessary in the context. The second judgment of the same Bench is reported at AIR 2008 Cal 171
( Partha Sarathi Ghosh v. Maa Construction ). The appellant in that matter
contended that in view of Section 14(3)(c) of the 1963 Act and the dictum in Vipin
Bhimani, the injunction granted by the trial court at the instance of the developer
was liable to be vacated. The Division Bench construed the developer's prayer for
injunction to be based on the negative covenants contained in the development
 agreement and also observed that it could not be said that the agreement did not
create any right over the land in favour of the developer. Paragraph 19 of the
report is apposite in such context: A single Bench judgment of this court reported in abridged form at AIR
2008 NOC Cal 782 ( Eden Realty Ventures Pvt. Ltd v. M.A. Construction & Trading
Co. Pvt. Ltd ) has been placed where the nature of the agreement as envisaged in
the expression "contract for the construction of any building or the execution of
any other work on land" in Section 14(3)(c) of the 1963 Act was seen to be of
limited import and not be applicable to agreements which involve more than a
mere construction of any building or the mere execution of any other work on
land. In the unreported full version of the judgment in Eden Realty Ventures Pvt.
Ltd, Section 10 of the 1963 Act was referred to for the Explanation thereto that
unless and until the contrary was proved, the court shall presume that the
breach of a contract to transfer immovable property cannot be adequately
relieved by compensation in money. In that case, on the strength of the dictum in
Vipin Bhimani, one of the defendants in the suit had applied for rejection of the
plaint under Order VII Rule 11 of Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. The application
in the nature of demurrer was repelled with the observations in the following
passages which are relevant in the present discussion: ... ... The supporting argument on behalf of the developers harps on the
impermissibility of the revocation of a power of attorney granted in connection
 with a development agreement. The judgments reported at AIR 2005 Orissa 147
( Birat Chandra Dagara v. Taurian Exim Pvt. Ltd ); AIR 1964 Allahabad 441 ( Loon
Karan Sethiya v. Ivan E. John ); and, (1969) 1 SCR 122 ( Seth Loon Karan Sethiya
v. Ivan E. John ) have been cited in such regard. In Birat Chandra Dagara a mining lease was obtained by the defendant
which the defendant was unable to exploit for want of technical know-how and
funds (There appears to be a scam in every mining lease!). The defendant-lessee
executed an irrevocable power of attorney against an advance payment to allow
the plaintiff to operate the mine with the idea that an assignment of the lease
would ultimately be obtained. The power of attorney was sought to be revoked
within a week of its execution, but after receipt of the payment of a substantial
sum. The grant of an interlocutory order of injunction in the suit challenging the
revocation was upheld by the Orissa High Court on the basis of Section 202 of
the Contract Act and the recognition that an interest was created in favour of the
plaintiff in the property which was the subject-matter of the agency. Apart from
the fact that the virtual assignment of a mining lease as in that case was
impermissible in law without the previous permission of the lessor, which the
judgment overlooked, it was the failure of the lessee to refund the payment
received by it that was the basis for the order. In the judgment reported at AIR 1964 Allahabad 441 ( Loon Karan Sethiya
v. Ivan E. John ), a bank's debtor made an agreement under which the debtor
executed a power of attorney authorising the bank to execute a decree obtained
by the debtor against a third person and credit the realisation to the debtor's
bank account. The revocation of the power of attorney was found to be invalid in
view of Section 202 of the Contract Act. The judgment is an illustration of how
the rule as recognised in Section 202 of the Contract Act applies but throws no
light on a development agreement of the kind that is the subject-matter of the
four sets of proceedings in which the reference has been made. The Allahabad
Division Bench judgment was affirmed in the Supreme Court judgment which
 has also been cited and which is found to be equally inapposite in the present
context. The second set of supporting argument on behalf of the developers revolves
around the Supreme Court judgment reported at (2008) 10 SCC 345 ( Faquir
Chand Gulati v. Uppal Agencies Pvt. Ltd ) and an unreported Division Bench
judgment of this court delivered on August 22, 2013 in APO No. 177 of 2013
( Jaichandlal Ashok Kumar and Co. Pvt. Ltd v. Nawab Yussef ). The issue before the
Supreme Court was whether the owner of a land who had entered into a
collaboration agreement for the construction of an apartment building and for
sharing the constructed area was a consumer entitled to make a complaint
against the builder under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . Though the legal
implication of such an agreement between the owner and the builder (the builder in that case substantially resembles the developer in the agreements in the four
sets of proceedings that form the subject-matter of this reference and also in the
several judgments of this court referred to above ) is discussed in the report, the
judgment throws no light on the legal issues which arise in the present
discussion. Similarly, the unreported judgment in Jaichandlal Ashok Kumar and
Pvt. Ltd is of no relevance in the immediate milieu. The submission on behalf of the owners emphasises on the wording of Section 14(3)(c) of the 1963 Act and the impermissibility of any suit for the
specific performance of a development agreement at the behest of a developer.
The owners also suggest that what cannot be done directly by seeking specific
performance may also not be done indirectly by framing other reliefs that,
through crafty drafting, conceals the relief for specific performance in any
declaration or injunction claimed towards the same end. The owners suggest that
if no final relief of specific performance of a development agreement can be
granted to a developer, no interlocutory injunction can issue in any suit
launched by a developer in furtherance of a development agreement. The owners place a judgment reported at (2011) 4 SCC 266 ( B. Premanand
v. Mohan Koikal ) for the proposition that a statutory provision must be
understood to say what appears from the literal construction thereof; and that
when there is a conflict between law and equity, law would prevail as equity can
only supplement the law but cannot supplant it. On similar lines, a judgment
reported at (2010) 5 SCC 1 ( Lalu Prasad Yadav v. State of Bihar ) has been cited
for the recognition therein that all words in a statutory provision should be seen
and understood to have been deliberately used to imply what they say in their
ordinary sense. A judgment reported at (2008) 7 SCC 454 ( United India Insurance
Company Ltd v. Ajay Sinha ) has been brought in the same vein to suggest that a
statutory provision should ordinarily not be construed to say any more or any
less than the words thereof imply on their natural construction; though,
ironically, such case requires strict construction of the ouster of the civil court's
jurisdiction under Section 9 of the Code. A decision reported at (2010) 6 SCC 637
( IRDP v. P.D. Chacko ) has been relied upon for the proposition that an exception
clause in a statutory provision has to be strictly interpreted; that its applicability
to a matter cannot be presumed, but requires to be demonstrated. Such
judgments as have been referred to by the owners throw no light on the
questions referred, but merely reiterate elementary canons of statutory
interpretation. Upon a reference being made to a special Bench, it is the brief of the
special Bench to answer the questions framed. However, even in the cold, dry
world of appreciation of law and interpretation of statutes, the context in which
the questions arise needs to be seen, if only to tailor the answers to resolve the
legal problems in such matters. CO No. 1358 of 2010, which is the original
matter in which the reference has been made and the questions framed, has been
carried by way of a civil revision by the plaintiff-developer. It is amusing to notice
that in the light of the dictum in Vipin Bhimani the reliefs in the suit do not seek
specific performance of the development agreement. However, one of the reliefs is
for a declaration as to the validity of the agreement; another is for the
 cancellation of the revocation of the power of attorney; and, the consequential
injunctions sought in aid of the principal reliefs makes the suit to be
unmistakably one for specific performance of the development agreement. The
order impugned is an appellate order setting aside the injunction granted in
favour of the developer by the trial court. In the second matter, CO No. 1431 of 2007, one of the owners of the land
as a defendant in the suit has challenged an order rejecting the belated
application for leave to file the written statement on the ground that the suit filed
by a developer, in effect, to specifically enforce the development agreement was
not maintainable. In CO No. 1222 of 2013 the plaintiff-developer complains of an
order by the lower appellate court in refusing to adjourn the hearing in an appeal
before the lower appellate court on the ground of the pendency of the present
reference. The miscellaneous appeal before the lower appellate court has been
lodged against the rejection of the plaintiff-developer's injunction application in a
suit seeking, in effect, specific performance of the development agreement. The
injunction application was rejected on the strength of the dictum in Vipin
Bhimani. In the last of the civil revisional petitions in which the reference has been
made, the plaintiff-developer has challenged the lower appellate order upholding
the trial court's order of rejecting the prayer for temporary injunction. The
principal reliefs in the suit are for a declaration to the effect that the plaintiff is
entitled to develop the suit property and an injunction restraining the owners
from creating any rights in favour of any other in respect of the suit property. The
lower appellate court dismissed the appeal on the strength of the judgments in
Satguru Nirman Pvt. Ltd and Vipin Bhimani. The first difficulty that arises in dealing with the questions referred is that
neither a "developer" nor a "development agreement" is defined in the 1963 Act.
Such expressions may not have been defined in any other statute and, in any
event, even if they were defined in any other statute, such definitions may have
 been of little use in assessing the legal issues that arise herein. In the absence of
a "developer" or a "development agreement" being defined, it is imperative that
the nature of an agreement which is the subject-matter of a suit has to be
assessed to ascertain whether such agreement is merely "a contract for the
construction of any building or the execution of any other work on land" within
the meaning of the expression in Section 14(3)(c) of the 1963 Act. It must first be
appreciated that the questions that have been referred to this Bench arise in
course of interlocutory proceedings in a suit and not at the trial of the suit. This
is of immense significance as the considerations at the interlocutory stage and at
the trial are qualitatively distinct and, arguably, may not overlap. Thus, the
discretion of the court that may be exercised under Chapter II of the 1963 Act
would be irrelevant at the interlocutory stage though a separate kind of
discretion as recognised, for instance, in Order XXXIX of the Code would come
into play. Again, jurisprudentially, the nature of the discretion that the court
exercises under Chapter II of the 1963 Act is different from the nature of the
discretion ordinarily exercised in interlocutory proceedings in a suit. This leads to the unavoidable discussion as to what may be regarded as a
development agreement as referred to in the questions framed for the reference
and the judgments of this court cited by the parties. Without intending the
discussion to be an exhaustive treatise on development agreements of all hues, it
may be recognised there can be several agreements which can be loosely
described as development agreements in the sense that such expression has
been used in the judgments cited in course of the present proceedings. An owner
without any funds or the independent resources to construct a new building on
such owner's land may engage another for such purpose with the consideration
for the construction being paid by allocation of a part of the constructed area.
There could be several variants of the same basic structure of a development
agreement with the agreement either providing for the owner being entitled to a
sum of money in addition to a specified share in the constructed area or with a
developer being required to rid the land of its encumbrances, whether monetary
 or otherwise, prior to the construction being taken up. There may be other
similar agreements under which the developer is required to temporarily relocate
an existing tenant or occupant and ultimately provide the tenant or occupant a
part of the constructed area. In the context in which certain agreements
pertaining to the construction of new buildings contemplate the construction to
be undertaken or orchestrated by a person other than the owner of the land,
whether upon the demolition of the existing structure or otherwise, with such
person other than the owner having a share in the constructed area, such
agreements have now come to be regarded as development agreements. Whether
or not such agreements are in the nature of collaboration or joint venture, they
are loosely referred to as development agreements in several judgments. Such
agreements are not merely for the construction of any building or for the mere
execution of any other work on the land. The developer is not merely a contractor
engaged to undertake the construction; the developer is, under the agreement
with the owner, promised a part of the constructed premises as owner thereof
together with the proportionate area of the land. In the context in which certain
agreements are referred to as development agreements and the non-owner party
to such an agreement is regarded as the developer qua the nature of the work
envisaged under the agreement, the developer always has a share in the building
or the area proposed to be constructed - which implies a proportionate share of
the piece of earth - and such agreement envisages the developer to have a share
of, and interest in, the final product which is the outcome of the agreement. In such sense, a development agreement which envisages the party thereto
other than the owner being responsible for ensuring the construction of a
building on the subject land and having a share therein, there is an inescapable
contract to transfer immovable property. In form, a development agreement
which envisages the developer to have a share in the building proposed to be
constructed in terms of the agreement, the agreement may appear to be
somewhat not resembling an agreement for transfer of an immovable property;
and, indeed, it is not an agreement simpliciter for sale of an immovable property.
 In law, however, a development agreement of the kind described herein entails
the transfer of immovable property in the sense that the developer or an assignee
of the developer, at the instance of the developer, would be entitled not only to a
part of the constructed area but the proportionate share of the land on which the
construction is made. If, in such sense, a development agreement is regarded as an agreement to
transfer immovable property, there is a presumption in view of the first limb of
the Explanation to Section 10 of the 1963 Act that the breach of a development
agreement cannot be adequately relieved by compensation in money. At the same
time, and notwithstanding such presumption, the operation of Section 10 of the
1963 Act, by virtue of the opening words of such provision, has to be in
consonance with and not de hors the other provisions in Chapter II of the Act . If a
development agreement is regarded as an agreement for transfer of immovable
property which attracts the presumption as aforesaid, the presumption has to be
repelled upon the contrary being proved. The contrary cannot be proved
conclusively at the interlocutory stage of any suit and, a fortiori, it cannot be said
that a suit for specific performance of a development agreement is not
maintainable. There is a gulf of difference between a plaintiff not being entitled to
the reliefs sought and the suit not being maintainable. Before finally answering the first of the questions referred, it is necessary
to emphasise that the ratio decidendi of a judgment is culled out upon
recognising all the material facts and the manner in which the law was applied to
the facts. A judgment cannot be read as a statute and it is only the rule
deducible from the application of the law to the facts in a case which constitutes
its ratio decidendi and not any matter which is not discussed but ought,
ordinarily, to have been referred to in the context of the facts. The ratio decidendi
is the legal principle as enunciated in the reasoning. It is with a lot of
circumspection that the reasoning in a previous judgment has to be applied to a
different set of facts in a subsequent matter. It is, thus, of great significance that in Bhaskar Aditya both the plaintiffs,
who claimed as co-owners with some of the defendants who asserted themselves
as the exclusive co-owners, and the set of defendants that claimed to be the
exclusive owners of the property did not object to the continuation of the
development of the property. Paragraphs 15 and 16 of the report make such
position clear. It is such consent of the plaintiffs and the defendants who claimed
as exclusive owners of the suit property that impelled the Division Bench to
render a prima facie finding in favour of the developer-appellant by appointing
the developer as the receiver to "carry out and continue with the development
work in respect of the entire property in terms of the development scheme as
enumerated in the brochure ..." (paragraph 23). In Satguru Nirman Pvt. Ltd the plaintiff was found to not be in possession of
the suit property and it was also noticed, at paragraph 27 of the report, that the
agreement provided for damages and the plaintiff had also sought damages in the
suit. However, the finding at the end of the paragraph that the fact the plaintiff
had not been put in possession of the suit property disentitled the plaintiff from
seeking specific performance of the agreement by virtue of Section 14(3)(c)(iii) is
incongruous with the relevant provision. Section 14(3)(c)(iii) envisages the
defendant to be put in possession of the whole or any part of the land in
pursuance of the contract for the construction of any building or the execution of
any other work on the land to entitle the plaintiff in a suit for specific
performance of such contract to claim specific performance. The plaintiff's
possession of the suit property is not what Section 14(3)(c)(iii) of the 1963 Act
requires to be complied with. In any event, Satguru Nirman does not say that a
suit filed by a developer for specific performance of the development agreement
would not be maintainable. To the extent that Satguru Nirman Pvt. Ltd may be
seen to have said that a developer not in possession of the suit property is not
entitled to an interlocutory injunction in a suit for specific performance of the
development agreement, it is not good law; as the reasoning is founded on an
 erroneous reading of Section 14(3)(c)(iii) of the 1963 Act as evident from
paragraph 27 of the report. That is not to suggest, however, that every developer seeking specific
performance of a development agreement would be entitled to an interlocutory
injunction in aid of the reliefs claimed. The consideration in every case has to
depend on the facts and the applicability of the law on the facts and the juridical
triumvirate of justice, equity and good conscience founded on the assessment of
a prima facie case and balance of convenience as is wont in most cases of
interlocutory injunction. Similarly, the nature of the injunction and as to whether
it should be conditional or not would be governed by the facts and the law as
generally applicable at the interlocutory stage, without it being necessitated to be
put into a straight-jacket by virtue of the suit being founded on a development
agreement. The enunciation of the law in the first sentence of paragraph 11 of the
report in Vipin Bhimani does not appear to be appropriate. Section 14(3)(c) of the
Act does not preclude a suit for specific performance of a development agreement
at the instance of a developer. A distinction has first to be made between an
agreement for transfer of an immovable property and the consideration therefor.
If the agreement is for sale of an immovable property, the mode and manner of
the consideration therefor would, ordinarily, not detract from the fundamental
nature of the agreement and render it to be regarded as something other than an
agreement for sale of the immovable property. It is the nature of the agreement
which, under the 1963 Act, has an impact on whether or not it may be
specifically enforced; the mode and manner of the consideration for the sale is
not referred to in the statute. That is not to suggest that every agreement for sale
of an immovable property must be specifically enforced; but only to recognise
that every agreement for sale of an immovable property can be sought to be
specially enforced. As to whether the relief of specific performance would be
granted or not and as to whether the party, other than the owner, seeking
 specific performance of an agreement for sale of an immovable property would be
entitled to maintain the claim - or, even, obtain any interlocutory injunction in
aid thereof - is an altogether different consideration. It cannot be said as an
absolute proposition of law that a development agreement of the kind that is
recognised herein and of the nature that was the subject-matter of the suit in
Vipin Bhimani, cannot be specifically enforced under any circumstances. Section
14(3)(c) of the 1963 Act deals with a class of agreements to which a development
agreement as understood in the present context does not fall. The key to understanding what is intended by Section 14(3)(c) of the 1963
Act is in sub-clause (iii) thereof. It may be more profitable to attempt to
comprehend such provision by reading it bottom-up rather than by arriving at
the last sub-clause from the beginning of the section. Simply put, Section 14(3)(c) of the 1963 Act provides that a suit for specific performance of a contract may be
allowed by a court if the contract is for the construction of any building or the
execution of any other work on land subject to all three conditions under (i), (ii)
and (iii) of the clause being fulfilled. Thus, if sub-clause (iii) is not fulfilled, the
clause itself is not complied with and specific performance of the contract may
not be granted. But sub-clause (iii) requires the defendant to the suit to have
obtained possession, in pursuance of the contract, of the whole or any part of the
land on which the building is to be constructed or other work executed. The
operative expressions in the sub-clause are "in pursuance of the contract" and
"obtained possession". That would imply that the possession must not be in
usual course as would ordinarily be of an owner; but that the possession has
been obtained not by virtue of the defendant being naturally entitled thereto but
only in pursuance of the contract of which specific performance is sought. Far
from the word "defendant" mistakenly appearing in the sub-clause - there have
been some murmurs to such effect in course of the submission of the developers
herein - the deliberate reference to the defendant in such provision indicates the
nature of the suit and the status of the claimant in the suit. And, this discussion
has to be perceived in the backdrop of the expression "contract for the
 construction of any building or the execution of any other work on land" that
figures in clause (c) and restricts the suit to a contract which is merely for such
purpose and for none other. If the nature of the contract does not strictly fall
within clause (c), as to whether such contract may be specifically enforced or not
has to be assessed on the basis of the law on the subject covered by Chapter II of
the 1963 Act, but the grant of its specific performance will not depend on the
compliance of the three conditions enumerated in the sub-clauses. Section 14(3)(c) of the 1963 Act permits, subject to compliance with all the
conditions therein, the specific performance of a contract at the behest of the
owner of the land against the person responsible for the construction. The second
sentence in paragraph 11 of the report in Vipin Bhimani considers only a facet of
the provision, in the context of a development agreement. The provision permits
the owner of the land to seek specific performance of the agreement for
construction of a building simpliciter and is an exception to the general rule that
an agreement of such nature may not be specifically enforced. To repeat, a
development agreement of the kind that is considered in this judgment is not an
agreement simpliciter for the construction of any building or for the execution of
any work on any land; it is much more than that in it also being an agreement
for sale of a part of the land to the developer. The specific performance of a contract is its actual execution according to
its stipulation and terms; and is contrasted with damages or compensation for
the non-execution of the contract. In either case the obligation of the party in
breach is recognised, but the manner of enforcing the obligation is different (Fry
on Specific Performance of Contracts). The actual execution of a contract is
enforced under the equitable jurisdiction vested in the court and as recognised
by law. In every contract there is an obligation on each of the contracting parties
towards the others to perform such of the terms of the contract as he has
undertaken to perform. If the person on whom such obligation rests fails to
discharge it, there results in morality to the other party a right at his election
 either to insist on the actual performance of the contract or to obtain satisfaction
for the non-performance of it (Austin's Jurisprudence). Sir Edmund Fry in his
venerable treatise recounts that Roman law gave a title to damages as the sole
right resulting from default in performance and that in like manner the common
law of England made no attempt to actually enforce the performance of contracts,
but gave to the injured party only the right to satisfaction for non-performance.
Fry quotes Sir Henry Maine to suggest that the jurisprudence on specific
performance of contracts developed due to the increase of commercial activity
but, ironically, the same spirit of commerce led to the notion that money, as a
universal common measure, was an equivalent of everything and resulted in
arresting the growth and application of the principle of specific performance. Though the Specific Relief Act, 1963 defines and amends the law relating to
certain kinds of specific reliefs, it appears to be exhaustive in dealing with
specific performance of contracts. At any rate, specific performance of a contract
cannot be had if the 1963 Act prohibits it. It is against such legal backdrop that
it must be assessed whether the natural right of a contracting party to obtain
what has been promised to him under the contract is interdicted by the
provisions of the statute. In the case of a development agreement, the right to
seek specific performance of such an agreement is neither expressly nor by
necessary implication prohibited by the 1963 Act. As to whether or not specific
performance is to be granted and as to whether or not any interlocutory order in
aid of the ultimate relief of specific performance may be issued will depend, inter
alia, on the nature of the agreement, the conduct of the parties, the surrounding
circumstances and other relevant considerations. The first question referred is thus answered that a suit at the instance of a
developer (where the developer is the non-owner party to a development
agreement of the kind that is referred to in this judgment) is not prohibited by Section 14(3)(c) of the Specific Relief Act. The second question pertains to the authority of the developer (this word
has to be understood in the same context as explained in this judgment) to do
things in pursuance of the development agreement (again, such agreement is to
be understood in the sense as indicated earlier in this judgment) that would be
the obligation of the owner to do; but which, for the convenience of either party
or the security of the developer, the developer performs on the basis of a power of
attorney executed in such regard by the owner. Typically, the powers of attorney
executed pursuant to a development agreement proclaim to be irrevocable,
though as rightly observed at paragraph 16 of Vipin Bhimani, the concept of a
perpetual agency as may be implied by an irrevocable power of attorney may be
unknown in jurisprudence. Ordinarily, the position of a developer in the work undertaken pursuant to
a development agreement has to be regarded as that of the conductor of an
orchestra in the sense that he guides and controls the project and the owner's
concern is limited to the timeliness and the quality of the project. Generally,
particularly as a class of developers or promoters has burgeoned, it would be the
developer who would take all the responsibilities for liaising with divers
authorities to obtain clearances and sanctions to undertake and complete the
project; ideally, keeping the owner informed throughout the duration of project. It
would thus be the developer, particularly the professional developer, who would
be more adept at getting things done and it may be convenient for the owner to
relieve himself of the everyday stresses and give authority to the developer to do
all that an ordinary owner would do to construct upon his land. The consolation
of the owner would be that in a development agreement the developer would also
be interested in the success of the project, its timely completion and the quality
thereof as the developer would be entitled to a part of the finished product. Understood in the sense that a development agreement has been in such
context, the agency created by a power of attorney executed by the owner in
favour of the developer may be seen to recognise an interest of the developer in
 the property which forms the subject-matter of the agency. But to stop here in
answering the second question in the reference would be an abject failure to
recognise the implication of the question. If the limited answer thus far given in
response to the second question implies that such agency can never be annulled;
it would make a mockery of the legal position on such aspect. To begin with, Section 202 of the Contract Act, in the context of a power of
attorney executed by an owner in favour of a developer pursuant to a
development agreement, has to be reconciled with Section 54 of the Transfer of
Property Act; particularly, as at least two of the judgments cited speak of a power
of attorney executed in pursuance of a development agreement creating an
agency coupled with an interest in favour of the developer-agent. Indian law does
not recognise the equitable title to land of a person who has entered into an
agreement to purchase the same. Thus, the final paragraph of Section 54 clarifies
that an agreement for sale of an immovable property does not, of itself, create any
interest in or charge on such land. Section 202 of the Contract Act, on the other
hand, recognises an interest in the property which forms the subject-matter of
the agency. The word "property" in Section 202 of the Contract Act would not
mean the same "property" in the final paragraph of Section 54 of the Transfer of
Property Act. In an agreement for sale of a land, the property is the land itself. In
a power of attorney executed in pursuance of a development agreement of the
kind that is referred to herein, the property which forms the subject-matter of the
agency is not necessarily the part of the land that is envisaged to be transferred
to the developer; it is the project itself. In the context of the interest of the agent that is protected under Section
202 of the Contract Act, the authority of the principal has to be regarded as a
kind of security for the agent. It must also be appreciated that the mere use of
the word "irrevocable" in a power of attorney would not make it irrevocable
unless it creates the kind of interest that is envisaged in Section 202 of the
Contract Act. It is also the nature of the interest that has to be discerned; for
 instance, the prospect of remuneration to the agent arising from the agency may
not constitute such an interest as would prevent the termination of the agency.
The authority must be seen to have been given with the object of protecting or
securing the interest of the agent; and it may not be sufficient if it does so
incidentally. (Pollock & Mulla on Indian Contract and Specific Relief Acts; 12th Ed.) Section 201 of the Contract Act provides, inter alia, for the termination of
an agency by the principal by revoking of the authority of the agent. The pre-
conditions to the exercise of the power to revoke the authority of the agent and
the effect of such termination are recognised in some of the subsequent
provisions of the Contract Act . The general rule is that the principal may revoke
the authority of the agent; the exceptions to the rule are provided in the statute.
But when an agent has not exercised the authority to bind the principal and the
revocation of the agency is contested on the basis of Section 202 or 204 of the Contract Act , it must be appreciated that such provisions are to protect the agent
and if the prejudice suffered or likely to be suffered is offset by any act or deed,
the revocation cannot be resisted. The point is best made with the help of the
illustrations in Section 202 and Section 204 of the Contract Act. According to
Illustration (a) under Section 202 of the Contract Act, if A gives authority to B to
sell his land, and to pay himself out of the proceeds, the debts due to him from A,
then A cannot revoke the authority. But it cannot be said that if A makes over
the debts due to B prior to or simultaneously with the revocation of the authority,
the revocation would still be bad. The same analogy can be carried to Illustration (a) under Section 204 of the Contract Act. Such illustration provides that if A
authorises B to buy cotton on account of A and to pay for it out of A's money with
B and B buys cotton in his own name and on his liability, then A cannot revoke
B's authority for payment for the cotton. Again, if A pays for the cotton
purchased by B, or makes over such money to B, prior to revoking B's authority
or simultaneously therewith, there is no prejudice to B, and, consequently, the
revocation may not be regarded as impermissible. Thus, the circumstances in which an owner may revoke the authority
granted under a power of attorney to a developer in pursuance of a development
agreement have to be ascertained in assessing whether the revocation is to be
recognised or given effect to. It may also be possible to not disturb the revocation
of the power of attorney and still require specific performance of the development
agreement if the facts warrant specific performance. If the spirit of the second question is respected and the question is not read
do hors its underlying implication, a monosyllabic answer thereto would be
irresponsible. Ordinarily, a power of attorney executed by an owner in favour of
the developer for effectuating the terms and conditions of the development
agreement does not give a bare agency to the developer but it gives the developer
an interest in the property which forms the subject-matter of the agency.
However, merely because such a power of attorney gives the developer an interest
in the property which forms the subject-matter of the agency, it cannot be said
that the agency cannot be revoked or terminated. Further, merely because such a
power of attorney may be revoked, it would not imply that the development
agreement can otherwise not be specifically enforced if the facts in a particular
case so warrant. The questions posed in the reference are answered as elaborately indicated
herein. It needs be reiterated that there may not be an absolute legal proposition
de hors the facts. It needs also to be stressed that the expressions "developer",
"owner" and "development agreement" as loosely used in legal pleadings,
documents and judgments have been used in the present judgment in the sense
as more fully indicated hereinabove. Let the four matters now be placed before the relevant Bench for disposal
in accordance with law in the light of the answers to the questions posed in this
reference. (Sanjib Banerjee, J.)

Arijit Banerjee, J. The following questions were formulated for reference to this Full Bench: I have had the benefit of going through the extremely learned and lucid
judgments of My Lord, the Hon'ble Justice Mr. Sanjib Banerjee and My Lord, the
Hon'ble Justice Mr. Ashim Kumar Banerjee and I am respectfully in full
agreement with the same. However, I wish to say a few words regarding the first
question looking at it from a slightly different angle. Specific performance is an age old remedy for breach of contract. A
contract is an agreement between parties consisting of a bundle of mutual rights
and obligations that the law will enforce. Chitty on contract, 26th Edition Volume
1 Page 1 defines a contract as a promise or set of promises which the law will
enforce. The commonest reliefs for breach of contract are specific performance,
where the contract is specifically enforceable at law or in equity, or damages as
compensation. What is clear is that under a contract the parties have mutual
rights and obligations. It is now established law that when a person has a right recognized by
law, there must be a forum and procedure for enforcement of such right. Such
person cannot be bereft of remedy in case such right is infringed or breached. In
this connection, reference may be made to the legal maxim, Ubi Jus ibi Remedium - there is no wrong without a remedy. Where there is a right there is a forum for
 its enforcement. According to Broom's Legal Maxim (10th Edition), Pages (118- 119), this maxim has been considered to be so valuable that it resulted in the
invention of the form of action called 'the action on the case'. Where no
precedent of a writ could be produced, the Clerk in Chancery would agree in
forming a new one. The principle adopted by the Courts of Law was that the
novelty of the particular complaint alleged in an action on the case would be no
objection, provided that an injury cognizable by law could be shown to have been
inflicted on the plaintiff, in which case, although there was no precedent, the
common law would judge according to the law of nature and the public good. If a
man has a right, he must have a means to vindicate and maintain it, and a
remedy if he is injured in the exercise and enjoyment of it, and indeed, it is a vain
thing to imagine a right without a remedy, for want of right and want of remedy
are reciprocal. This is what our Supreme Court has observed in the case of Dhannalal-
Vs.-Kalawati Bai reported in (2002) 6 SCC 16. In the case of Ganga Bai-Vs.-Vijoy Kumar reported in (1974) 2 SCC 393,
the Supreme Court held that there is an inherent right in every person to bring a
suit of a civil nature and unless the suit is barred by statute, one may, at one's
peril, bring a suit of one's choice. It is no answer to a suit, however, frivolous the
claim that the law confers no such right to sue. A suit for its maintainability
requires no authority of law and it is enough that no statute bars the suit. A contract between a developer and an owner would also consist of
reciprocal rights and obligations. The developer and the owner would have rights
against each other. In my view, it would be preposterous to say that only the
owner can maintain a suit against the developer for enforcing his rights and not
vice versa. If the developer has a right under the contract he must be having a
remedy in the form of approaching a forum for appropriate redressal. This is not
to say that the developer will necessarily succeed in such a legal action. A
question of maintainability of a suit is completely different from the question of
 whether the suit will succeed or not on the facts of the case and in the light of
the applicable law. Section 14 (3)(c) of the Specific Relief Act can in no manner
be interpreted as debarring a developer from approaching the legal forum for
redressal of his grievance. To that extent, a suit at the instance of a developer is
maintainable and not barred by Section 14(3)(c) of the Specific Relief Act. Thus, I am in complete and respectful agreement with the judgments of My
Lords, Hon'ble Justice Mr. Ashim Kumar Banerjee and Hon'ble Justice Mr.
Sanjib Banerjee. (Arijit Banerjee, J.)

 Urgent certified website copies of this judgment, if applied for, be supplied
to the parties upon compliance with all requisite formalities.