1. Heard learned Senior Advocate Mr. J.M. Panchal with learned
Advocate Mr. Chetan K. Pandya on behalf of the applicant and learned
Public Prosecutor Mr. Mitesh Amin with learned Additional Public
Prosecutor Mr. Ronak Raval on behalf of the respondent- State 2. The present application has been preferred by the applicant
apprehending his arrest in connection with the File No.DCST/ENF-1/AC-
4/SUMMONS/2021-22/B-597 registered with the office of the Deputy
Commissioner of State Tax, Enforcement, Division (1), Ahmedabad. 3. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Panchal would submit that the present
applicant who is proprietor of one M/s Lucky Steel, had been issued
summons under Section 70 of the Gujarat Goods and Service Tax Act
(GGST Act), 2017 and Section 70 (1) of the Central Goods and Service Tax
Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the ' CGST Act ') . R/CR.MA/18055/2021 ORDER DATED: 13/06/2022 4. Learned Senior Advocate would submit that the summons dated
01.08.2021 inter alia required the applicant to remain present and furnish
documents and records mentioned in the schedule to the notice with regard
to an inquiry against one M/s Gurukrupa Traders and the company of the
applicant being M/s Lucky Steel. Learned Senior Advocate would submit
that the present applicant since he was not in town, could not remain
present before the officer concerned and whereas the applicant had written
a letter dated 02.08.2021 seeking a date after 15-20 days and also to submit
relevant details of documents required by the officer concerned. Learned
Senior Advocate would submit that the said communication was replied by
another letter of the department i.e. the office of the Deputy Commissioner
of State Tax ( Enforcement), Division (1), Ahmedabad calling upon the
applicant to remain present on 17.08.2021. It is stated that the applicant had provided vide his communication
dated 16.08.2021 documents relating to M/s Lucky Steel and whereas the
applicant had submitted that he did not have any connection with the other
entity named in the summons i.e M/s Gurukrupa Traders. It would be
pertinent to mention herein that the applicant had not remained personally
present rather he had sent explanation along with documents vide
communication as referred to hereinabove. It appears that the residential
premises of the applicant had also been been searched in the interregnum
on 01.08.2021. 5. Learned Senior Advocate would submit that since the applicant did
not appear, the respondents had filed a complaint against the applicant
under Sections 174 and 175 of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 70
of the GGST Act, 2017 and CGST Act, 2017 . 70(1) of the CGST Act , inter alia empowers the proper officer to summon
any person whose attendance is necessary to give evidence or to produce
any document. Learned Senior Advocate would submit that the power to
summons any person in an inquiry under Section 70 is as specified in the
statute, equivalent to the powers provided to a Civil Court under the
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. Learned Senior Advocate
would thereafter refer to Section 136 of the CGST Act and would submit
that a statement given by a person in response to a summons under Section
70 during the course of inquiry or proceedings under the Act, could only be
relevant for proving the truth of facts if the person making a statement is
either dead or incapable or whose presence could not be obtained etc. or
when such person making the statement is examined as a witness in a case
before the Court and the Court is of the opinion that such statement should
be admitted. Learned Senior Advocate would submit that since a statement
under Section 70 of the CGST Act, not being of very high evidentiary value,
except under circumstances as mentioned in Section 136 of the CGST Act,
the respondents, under the guise of the applicant being called to respond to
such summons, would arrest the present applicant. It is further submitted
that as such the applicant had provided all details of his firm i.e. M/s Lucky
Steel and whereas he has no connection with the other entity named in the
summons. It is also submitted that the name of the present applicant, had
cropped up during an inquiry proceedings, and whereas the persons in
whose statement the name of the present applicant had cropped up, have
now been listed as accused. Learned Senior Advocate would submit that
merely on the basis of statement of accused, the present applicant ought not
to have been attempted to be arrested. applicant is ready and willing to co-operate with the investigation and
subject to protection granted by this Court, the applicant is ready and willing
to appear before the authority concerned, on any date, as may be directed
by this Court. Thus submitting learned Senior Advocate has requested this
Court to grant anticipatory bail to the present applicant. 6. On the other hand, this application is vehemently opposed by the
learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Mitesh Amin appearing with learned
Additional Public Prosecutor Mr. Ronak Raval on behalf of the respondent - State. 6.1 Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin would submit that the
department had received certain material against one M/s Madhav Copper
Limited and whereas upon detailed investigation, it was found that the said
entity, had shown fake purchases to the tune of Rs. 762.66 Crores from 36
fictitious entities and thereby availed input tax credit to the tune of
Rs.137.28 Crores. Learned Senior Advocate would submit that one
Nileshbhai Natubhai Patel was the person who was overall in- charge of the
company and whereas the modus operandi of the scam was that the company
i.e M/s Madhav Copper Limited would purchase fake invoices, without any
actual physical movement of goods to M/s Madhav Copper Limited and the
company based upon the fake invoices would make payment through
banking challan to the supplier. It is further submitted that the amount paid
would thereafter being re-routed to the persons in-charge of M/s Madhav
Copper through Aagadia firms by way of cash. It is submitted by learned
Public Prosecutor, relying upon certain confidential documents submitted to
this Court that during search proceedings at the residential premises of one
Afzal Sadiq Ali Savjani, various electronic devices were recovered. It is
submitted that details of whats app chat have been retrieved from digital Page 4 of 11 Downloaded on : Mon Jun 20 20:06:52 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18055/2021 ORDER DATED: 13/06/2022

devices of the said Afzal Savjani and whereas the said details would show
the money trade leading back to the present applicant. As a matter of fact
according to learned Public Prosecutor based upon the documents, while
Nilesh Patel was the overall in-charge of the company named M/s Madhav
Copper Limited whereas it appears that the present applicant was the
mastermind of the entire scam and whereas the applicant was a prime
beneficiary of the entire scam. 7. Learned Public Prosecutor would thereafter rely upon the decision of
the learned Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Criminal Misc. Application
No. 17697 of 2021 and other allied matters dated 14.10.2021 whereby
learned Co-ordinate Bench had been pleased to reject the application for
anticipatory bail preferred by the said Nilesh Patel, in charge of M/s
Madhav Copper Limited. Learned Senior Advocate would submit that
learned Co-ordinate Bench of this Court had gone into the issue in detail,
and had come to a conclusion that discretion could not be exercised in
favour of the applicant therein. Learned Public Prosecutor would also
submit that the learned Co-ordinate Bench of this Court had also come to a
conclusion that in the facts of the case custodial interrogation of the
applicant therein would be necessary and whereas it is also submitted that
the fact of the maximum punishment which could be imposed being of 5
years, had also not been countenanced by learned Co-ordinate Bench more
particularly relying upon decision of the Honble Apex Court. 8. Learned Public Prosecutor would submit that the decision of learned
Co-ordinate Bench had been assailed by the applicant therein before the
Hon'ble Apex Court and whereas the Hon'ble Apex Court had declined to
interfere. R/CR.MA/18055/2021 ORDER DATED: 13/06/2022 9. Having regard to the same learned Public Prosecutor would submit
that in case of a co-accused more particularly where the present applicant is
stated to be the mastermind of the entire scam then the learned Co-ordinate
Bench has refused to interfere and such order having been upheld by the
Hon'ble Apex Court, this Court may not interfere and exercise discretion in
favour of the present applicant. 10. Heard learned Advocates for the parties who have not submitted
anything further. 11. Having appreciated the submissions of learned Senior Advocates, in
the considered opinion of this Court, discretion ought not to be exercised in
favour of the present applicant. 12. This Court based upon the submissions of the learned Public
Prosecutor more particularly relying upon confidential documents provided
to this Court, is of the opinion that the present applicant, who was
mastermind of the entire scam, whereby the entity in question one M/s
Madhav Copper Limited had availed input tax credit to the tune of
Rs.137.28 Crores. It also clearly appears from the said documents that the
present applicant was also a prime beneficiary of the scam in question. In
the considered opinion of this Court, when learned Co-ordinate Bench of
this Court has thought it fit not to exercise its discretion in favour of a
person who had almost similar or slightly lesser role than that played by the
present applicant in the scam in question, then certainly this Court would
not exercise its discretion in favour of the present applicant. Though many
of the submissions before learned Co-ordinate Bench, have not been raised
before this Court, yet, in view of the commonality of the facts, this Court
deems it appropriate to refer to observations of the learned Co-ordinate Page 6 of 11 Downloaded on : Mon Jun 20 20:06:52 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18055/2021 ORDER DATED: 13/06/2022

Bench in decision dated 14.10.2021 in Criminal Misc. Application No.
17697 of 2021 more particularly paragraphs no. 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 38
which are reproduced hereinbelow: 34. Thus from the aforesaid order, it is clear that though the
 concerned accused was in jail since 1 year and 8 months, the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court had not exercised the discretion in favour of the said
 accused. In the present case, these are the applications filed by the
 applicants under Section 438 of the Code and, therefore in the facts
 of the present case, this Court is discretion in not inclined to exercise Page 8 of 11 Downloaded on : Mon Jun 20 20:06:52 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18055/2021 ORDER DATED: 13/06/2022

 discretion in favour of to the applicants. 35. Learned advocate for the applicants has placed reliance upon
 decision rendered by the different High Courts and, has thereafter, it
 the is contended that various High Courts have enlarged the
 concerned accused on anticipatory bail in connection with the
 offences, which are punishable under Section 132 of the GGST Act.
 However in the facts of the present case, this Court is not inclined to
 exercise the discretion in favour of the applicants and the aforesaid
 decisions were rendered by the concerned High Court on the facts of
 a particular case. 36. Learned advocate, Mr. Mangukiya has placed reliance upon the
 recent order dated 07.10.2021 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 in case of Satender Kumar Antil Vs. Central Bureau of Inveestigation
 & Anr. in Special Leave to Appeal(Crl.) No.5191/2020. However, this
 Court is of the view that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has laid down
 certain guidelines for the grant of bail in categories/types of offence.
 It is pertinent to note that the present offfence can be categorized as
 "economic offence" where huge public money in the form of alleged
 tax liability of Rs.137.00 Crores is involved. This Court has considered
 the seriousness of the charges and the fact that the applicants have
 not cooperated with the investigating agency though directed by one
 Hon'ble Supreme Court and, therefore in the fact of the present case,
 the aforesaid order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court would not
 be applicable. 38. In case of Sushila Aggarwal (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 has observed and laid down the guidelines for considering the
 application under Section 438 of the Code. This Court has kept in Page 9 of 11 Downloaded on : Mon Jun 20 20:06:52 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18055/2021 ORDER DATED: 13/06/2022

 view the said decision while considering the present case, this Court is
 of the view that the applicants are not entitled to be released on
 anticipatory bail." 13. Insofar as the submissions made by the learned Senior Advocate for
the present applicant that the only material with the Investigating Officers,
is the statement of co-accused, which may not be a basis, to implicate the
present applicant, in the considered opinion of this Court, at this stage, the
department based upon the material that had been collected by them, are
inquiring/ investigating in the scam and whereas in the considered opinion
of this Court, more particularly in view of the material shown to this Court
by the learned Public Prosecutor, it could not be stated that the statements
of the co-accused would be the only material which is available with the
department. In any case in a scam of such a huge latitude, with all its
intricacies, custodial interrogation of the applicant, would be required and
whereas such right of the Investigating Agency had also been upheld by
learned Co-ordinate bench more particularly at para 30 of the judgement
reproduced hereinabove. 14. Insofar as submissions with regard to relevancy of statement under
Section 70 of the GCST Act, more particularly in context of Section 136 of
the GCST Act, in the considered opinion of this Court, at the stage of
anticipatory bail, the consideration which would weigh with this Court
would be the parameters which are laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in
case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of
Maharashtra and Ors. reported in (2011)1 SCC 694, more
particularly paragraph no. 112 of the said decision and the observations of
the Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Sushila Aggarwal & Ors. Vs. State (NCT
of Delhi) & Anr. , reported in (2020) 5 SCC 1. R/CR.MA/18055/2021 ORDER DATED: 13/06/2022 15. Having regard to the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court, in
the considered opinion of this Court, the submissions made by learned
Senior Advocate for the applicant more particularly with regard to
admissibility of the statement under Section 70 of the CGST Act would not
be appreciated by this Court at this stage. 16. Having regard to the discussion, reasoning and conclusions as
hereinabove, in the considered opinion of this Court, this should not be the
case where this Court would exercise discretionary jurisdiction under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to release the present
applicant on anticipatory bail. Hence the present application is rejected. (NIKHIL S. KARIEL,J)
NIRU Page 11 of 11 Downloaded on : Mon Jun 20 20:06:52 IST 2022