A.M. Khanwilkar, J. 1. The petitioners have filed the present writ petition on 25th

 January, 2018, in the backdrop of mob violence, protests and

 demonstrations which erupted across the nation in the recent

 past, especially against cultural programmes and

 establishments and the ensuing damage to public and private Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR Date: 2018.10.01 properties arising out of such violence. Petitioner No. 1 is a 18:38:23 IST Reason: registered film society and petitioner no. 2, is a member of the 2 petitioner no.1 film society. They have highlighted law and

order problems arising out of the release of several films,

especially the violence surrounding the release of the film

‗Padmaavat‘, and submit that fundamentalist outfits and

fringe groups have been issuing threats and engaging in acts

of violence against people and property to disrupt and prevent

public exhibitions of these films on the pretext that they offend

their cultural/religious sentiments. These groups engage in

violence against artistic expression, with utter impunity and

show complete disregard for the rule of law and constitutional

values. The films which are protested against are certified for

public exhibition in accordance with law under the Cinematograph Act and by attempting to stop their exhibition,

these groups operate as ‗super censors‘, exercising unlawful

authority and power outside the control and without the

sanction of the State. These attacks on films are part of a

larger problem whereby private individuals and groups impose

unlawful restraints by threatening violence upon citizens‘

artistic freedoms and thereby impinge on the freedom of

speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the 3 Constitution of India. The petitioners contend that the

respondent state governments then themselves ban the

exhibition of such films, citing law and order problems,

without clamping down on the root cause of such problems

namely the individuals and groups who incite and commit

violence. It is also contended that many such groups have

tacit support from the political parties in power. 2. The petitioners have consequently prayed for the

following reliefs: 3. The principal relief is to issue directions to the

 States/Union of India to strictly implement the decision

 rendered by this Court in In Re: Destruction of Public and

 Private Properties Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh & Ors. 1

 concerning the large-scale destruction of properties in the

 name of agitations, bandhs, hartals etc. The Court, after

 taking note of certain suggestions given by the Committees

 appointed by the Court inter alia recommended amendments

 to the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 (for

 short ‗the PDPP Act ’), Criminal Procedure Code , 1973 and

 other criminal law statutes; and also set out guidelines to

 assess damages to property in the absence of a statutory

1 (2009) 5 SCC 212 6 framework. The relevant portion of the judgment is set out

hereunder: 6. The recommendations of the Justice Thomas
 Committee have been made on the basis of the following
 conclusions after taking into consideration the materials. In respect of (i) 7. ―According to this Committee the prosecution should
 be required to prove, first that public property has been
 damaged in a direct action called by an organization and
 that the accused also participated in such direct action.
 From that stage the burden can be shifted to the accused
 to prove his innocence. Hence we are of the view that in
 situations where prosecution succeeds in proving that
 public property has been damaged in direct actions in
 which accused also participated, the court should be
 given the power to draw a presumption that the accused
 is guilty of destroying public property and that it is open
 to the accused to rebut such presumption. The PDPP Act
 may be amended to contain provisions to that effect.‖ 7 In respect of (ii) 8. ―Next we considered how far the leaders of the
organizations can also be caught and brought to trial, when
public property is damaged in the direct actions called at the
behest of such organizations. Destruction of public property
has become so rampant during such direct actions called by
organizations. In almost all such cases the top leaders of
such organisations who really instigate such direct actions
will keep themselves in the background and only the
ordinary or common members or grass root level followers of
the organisation would directly participate in such direct
actions and they alone would be vulnerable to prosecution
proceedings. In many such cases, the leaders would really
be the main offenders being the abettors of the crime. If
they are not caught in the dragnet and allowed to be
immune from prosecution proceedings, such direct
actions would continue unabated, if not further
escalated, and will remain a constant or recurring affair. Of course, it is normally difficult to prove abetment of the
offence with the help of direct evidence. This flaw can be
remedied to a great extent by making an additional
provision in PDPP Act to the effect that specified
categories of leaders of the organization which make the
call for direct actions resulting in damage to public
property, shall be deemed to be guilty of abetment of the
offence. At the same time, no innocent person, in spite of
his being a leader of the organization shall be made to suffer
for the actions done by others. This requires the inclusion of
a safeguard to protect such innocent leaders.‖

In respect of (iii) 9. ―After considering various aspects to this question
we decided to recommend that prosecutions should be
required to prove (i) that those accused were the leaders
or office bearers of the organisation which called out the
direct actions and (ii) that public property has been
damaged in or during or in the aftermath of such direct
actions. At that stage of trial it should be open to the
court to draw a presumption against such persons who
are arraigned in the case that they have abetted the
commission of offence. However, the accused in such
case shall not be liable to conviction if he proves that (i)
he was in no way connected with the action called by his 8 political party or that (ii) he has taken all reasonable
measures to prevent causing damage to public property
in the direct action called by his organisation.‖

In respect of (iv) 10. ―The Committee considered other means of adducing
evidence for averting unmerited acquittals in trials
involving offences under PDPP Act . We felt that one of the
areas to be tapped is evidence through videography in
addition to contemporaneous material that may be available
through the media, such as electronic media. With the
amendments brought in the Evidence Act , through Act 21 of
2000 permitting evidence collected through electronic
devices as admissible in evidence, we wish to recommend
the following: The Committee felt that offenders arrested for damaging
public property shall be subjected to a still more stringent
provision for securing bail. The discretion of the court in
granting bail to such persons should be restricted to cases
where the court feels that there are reasonable grounds to
presume that he is not guilty of the offence. This is in tune
with Section 437 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
and certain other modern Criminal Law statutes. So we
recommend that Section 5 may be amended for carrying
out the above restriction. Thus we are of the view that discretion to reduce the
minimum sentence on condition of recording special
reasons need not be diluted. But, instead of "reasons" the
court should record "special reasons" to reduce the
minimum sentence prescribed. However, we felt that apart from the penalty of
imprisonment the court should be empowered to impose
a fine which is equivalent to the market value of the
property damaged on the day of the incident. In default
of payment of fine, the offender shall undergo
imprisonment for a further period which shall be
sufficient enough to deter him from opting in favour of
the alternative imprisonment.‖ 11. The recommendations according to us are wholesome
and need to be accepted. 12. To effectuate the modalities for preventive action
and adding teeth to enquiry/investigation following
guidelines are to be observed: 13. So far as the Committee headed by Mr. F.S. Nariman
is concerned the recommendations and the views are
essentially as follows: 14. The basic principles as suggested by Nariman
Committee are as follows which we find to be
appropriate: (3.1) In actions in tort where damages are at large i.e. not
limited to the pecuniary loss that can be specifically proved,
the Court may also take into account the defendant's
motives, conduct and manner of committing the tort, and
where these have aggravated the plaintiff's damage e.g. by
injuring his proper feelings of dignity, safety and pride -
aggravated damages may be awarded. Aggravated damages
are designed to compensate the plaintiff for his wounded
feelings-they must be distinguished from exemplary damages
which are punitive in nature and which (under English Law)
may be awarded in a limited category of cases.
 (3.2) "Exemplary damages" has been a controversial topic for
many years. Such damages are not compensatory but are
awarded to punish the defendant and to deter him and
others from similar behaviour in the future. The law in
England (as restated in Rookes v. Barnard affirmed in
Cassell v. Broome) is that such damages are not generally
allowed. In England they can only be awarded in three
classes of cases (i) where there is oppressive, arbitrary or
unconstitutional action by servants of the Government; (ii)
where the defendants conduct has been calculated by him to
make a profit for himself which may well exceed the
compensation payable to the claimant; and (iii) where such
damages are provided by statute. (3.3) In the decision in Kuddus v. Chief Constable of
Leicestershire Constabulary, the most recent judgment of the
House of Lords, the Law Lords did not say that in the future
the award of exemplary damages should be restricted only in
the cases mentioned in Rookes v. Barnard (as affirmed in
Cassell v. Broome). Lord Nicholls in his speech at page 211
stated that: (3.6) The authors go on to say that exemplary damages
certainly enjoy a continuing vitality in other common law
jurisdictions, which, by and large, have rejected the various
shackles imposed on them in England and extended them to
other situations: thus punitive damages was held to be
available in Australia "in cases of "outrageous" acts of
negligence. The Law Commission of Australia has also
concluded - after a fairly evenly balanced consultation-that
exemplary damages should be retained where the defendant
"had deliberately and outrageously disregarded the plaintiffs
rights.‖ 15. In the absence of legislation the following guidelines
are to be adopted to assess damages: 16. The recommendations of Justice K.T. Thomas
Committee and Mr F.S. Nariman Committee above which
have the approval of this Court shall immediately
become operative. They shall be operative as guidelines. xxx 28. The present case is one in which guidelines are
necessary: This issue was examined by the Nariman Committee which
 considered: 29. These guidelines shall cease to be operative as and
 when appropriate legislation consistent with the
 guidelines indicated above are put in place and/or any
 fast track mechanism is created by the statute(s).‖
 (emphasis supplied)

After having noted the recommendations made by the

Committees appointed by the Court, in paragraphs 16, 28 and

29 the Court declared that the stated recommendations had

the approval of the Court and shall immediately become

operative. 4. Taking a cue from this decision, the petitioners have

prayed for the reliefs reproduced in paragraph 2 above. To

buttress the reliefs in the writ petition, the petitioners have

articulated some suggestions to ameliorate and curb the

occurrence of such events. The suggestions given by the

petitioners read thus: 15. The progress report of the investigation in the above
mentioned cases shall be made to the District
Collector/Chief Judicial Magistrate and shall also be 18 uploaded on the website of the Director General of Police, on
a weekly basis. 16. If anyone is acquitted in any such case, the State shall
file an appeal against the acquittal. 17. The judgment of acquittal or conviction shall be
uploaded on the website of the police where the progress
report of investigation is uploaded. D. Regarding liability of organizations, groups etc. 18. If any protest that resulted in destruction of property
was organized by a group or by members of any
organization, the office bearers of such group or organization
shall within 24 hours of the incident, report to the police
station/s in whose jurisdiction the disruptive activities took
place. 19. The office bearers shall give all information about such
protest to the police, including the call for protest and the
details of the local leaders of such organization. 20. They may make a statement disowning the act of such
people who were involved in such protest and in case such a
statement is given, such of the members who are disowned
shall be expelled from the organization with immediate effect. 21. In case no statement of disownment is tendered or
disowned members are not expelled, the office bearers and
leaders of such organization shall also be liable for
prosecution under 120B of the IPC . 22. Any glorification or patronization of hate speech or
violence or accused by any person by means of words or acts
of any form shall also be liable for contempt of court. E. Regarding accountability of police 23. If the police fail to register FIR or conduct investigation
and submit charge sheet within a period of 90 days in any of
the above mentioned instances, the Director General of
Police shall be personally liable for contempt of court. 24. Departmental action shall be initiated against those
police officers who are apparently inactive during such
protests and do not take necessary action as required within
a period of one month from the date of incident. 25. Any delay in taking appropriate action by the police
should be explained with reasons by the DGP and necessary
communication to this effect shall be made through public
notice including through official website of the Police. 26. The owners of private property that is destroyed by
mob violence/protestors or their representatives in interest
shall be entitled to claim compensation for destruction 19 caused to their property, movable and immovable. The
claims for compensation for destruction of private property
and the claim for restoration costs shall be filed before a
Claims Tribunal which shall be constituted by the State
Government to investigate the damage caused and to award
compensation related thereto. The Claims Tribunal shall
comprise of a sitting or retired High Court judge or a sitting
or retired District judge (Chairperson) and such other
members (Assessors) as may be prescribed by the
government. The Tribunal shall follow a time bound
summary procedure as may be prescribed by the
Government so that the claims are disbursed within 6
months from the occurrence. 27. The State Government and Director General of Police
shall hand over to the Claims Tribunal the video or other
recordings from private and public sources that would
enable the Claims Tribunal to pinpoint the damage and
establish nexus with the perpetrators of the damage. 28. The principles of absolute liability shall apply once the
nexus with the event that precipitated the damage is
established. 29. Damages shall be assessed for: 30. Exemplary damages may be awarded to an extent not
greater than twice the amount of the damages liable to be
paid. 31. The Tribunal shall specify in its award the amount
towards compensation, amount towards the costs for
restoration of property and exemplary damages separately. 32. The liability to pay compensation shall be apportioned
by the Tribunal amongst the following persons: 33. The person/s who is/are declared liable by the
Tribunal shall also be ordered to pay 10% of the amount
awarded as costs for meeting the expenses of the Tribunal. 34. It shall be the responsibility of the State Government
 to restore all properties so destroyed to its original position
 within a period of 12 months. The cost shall be realized from
 persons declared liable by the Tribunal as arrears of land
 revenue. G. Protection of non-violent democratic form of
 processions, march and protests 35. All democratic protests without violence, against the
 government policy/action or for social causes shall be duly
 respected and shall not incur any liability. 36. Raising slogans against the government or its leaders
 shall not be treated as hate speech or as an offence. The
 protesters shall have the right to carry posters, banners,
 effigies etc. to show their mark of protest.‖ 5. We have heard Mr. P.V. Dinesh, learned counsel for the

petitioners and Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned Attorney General

for India, as also Mr. Aman Lekhi, learned Additional Solicitor

General, on behalf of the respondent No.1 Union of India and

the respondent States. 6. Mr. Venugopal is unequivocal in his submission that

violent protests which lead to loss of life and damage to public

and private properties are against the spirit of democracy. He

submits that pursuant to the judgment in In Re: Destruction

of Public and Private Properties (supra), the Union of India

has advised the respondent states to follow the guidelines laid 21 down therein vide letter dated 6th May, 20132. Further, a Bill is

 being introduced to bring in certain amendments to the PDPP

 Act in line with the said guidelines, which is currently under 2 ―ANNEXURE-2 No.11034/01/2013-IS-IV
 Government of India Ministry of Hone Affairs IS-I Division
 North Block, New Delhi the
 6th May, 2013
To The Chief Secretaries
All State Govts./UTs
Subject: Destruction and Damage to Public Properties in the name of agitations, Bandhs, Hartals etc.- guidelines for
prevention of such destructive activities – regarding.
Sir/madam
 The Hon‘ble Supreme Court of India taking a serious note of various instances where there was large scale
destruction of public and private properties in the name of agitations, bandhs hartals and the like vide order dated
16.04.2009 in W.P. (Crl.) No.77/2007 in the matter of Destruction of Public & Private Properties Vs. State of A.P. and
Ors. directed that the following guidelines should be observed as soon as there is a demonstration organized to
effectuate the modalities for preventive action and adding teeth to enquiry/investigation:- 2. Though ‗Police‘ and ‗Public Order‘ are State subjects under the Seventh Schedule (List-II) to the Constitution
 of India, the Union Government attaches highest importance to prevention of crime. Therefore has been
 advising the State Governments/Union Territory Administration from time to time to give more focused
 attention to the administration of the criminal justice system with emphasis on prevention and control of
 crime. 3. In view of the Hon‘ble Supreme Courts directions, all the State Movements/UTs are advised to take
 appropriate steps for effective prevention, detection, registration, investigation and prosecution of all crimes
 within their jurisdiction. letter dated 26th March, 20183 has also requested the States

 and Union Territories to appoint one or more

 district/additional district judges, in consultation with their

 respective High Courts, to deal with cases of damage to public

 property on a whole-time or part-time basis. Pending the

 outcome of the aforesaid discussions, and as an interim

 measure, the learned Attorney General has also given certain

 written suggestions to increase accountability and timelines

 for law-enforcement bodies in relation to such acts of mob

 violence. We shall advert to the proposed amendments to the PDPP Act and the written suggestions shortly. “ANNEXURE-3

 No.24013/12/C.C./2013-CSR.III/3997-4105 Ministry of Home Affairs
 (CS Division)
 Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, India Gate, New Delhi, dated the 26 th March, 2018.
 To,
 Chief Secretaries of all State Governments & UT Administrations.
 Subject:- Supreme Court‘s Judgment in Writ Petition (Civil) No.55 of 2013 filed by Koshy Jacob Vs.
 Union of India & Ors . Sir,
 The Hon‘ble Supreme Court in its Judgment dated 28-11-2017 in the above mentioned writ petition,
 on the issue of dealing with cases of damage to public property has observed that one or more
 district/additional district judges can be appointed by the State Government in consultation with the High
 Court to deal with such issues either on whole-time basis or on part-time basis, as the situation may require.
 In such cases, cadre strength of the judicial officers may require suitable temporary or permanent increase. 2. It is therefore requested that States/UTs may comply with the directions of the Supreme Court‘s
 order. Yours faithfully,
 (Krishan Kumar)
 Deputy Secretary (CS-I)
 Tel:23075291
 End.- As above
 Copy to;- 1. Home Secretaries of all State Governments & UT Administrations 2. DGPs of all State Governments & UT Administrations.‖ 23 7. The present petition highlights the disconcerting rise in

the protests and demonstrations by private entities targeting,

amongst others, exhibition of films and social functions and

including sections of people, on moral grounds, in particular,

using threats and actual violence. In addition to being patently

illegal and unlawful, such acts of violence highlight a deeper

malaise, one of intolerance towards others‘ views which then

results in attempts to suppress alternate view points, artistic

integrity and the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed

by the Constitution of India. Indeed, the people who perpetrate

such actions, especially against private parties, do so without

fear of consequence and reprisal, probably believing that

private parties do not have the wherewithal to hold them

accountable for such actions. In such situations, the State

must step in and perform its duty by taking measures to

prevent such actions from occurring in the first place,

ensuring that law-enforcement agencies exercise their power

to bring the guilty parties to book and imposing time-bound

and adequate punishment for any lapses. This Court has time 24 and time again underscored the supremacy of law and that

 one must not forget that administration of law can only be

 done by law-enforcing agencies recognised by law. Nobody has

 the right to become a self-appointed guardian of the law and

 forcibly administer his or her own interpretation of the law on

 others, especially not with violent means. Mob violence runs

 against the very core of our established legal principles since it

 signals chaos and lawlessness and the State has a duty to

 protect its citizens against the illegal and reprehensible acts of

 such groups. Very recently, we have dealt with almost similar

 grievances in Tehseen S. Poonawalla Vs. Union of India &

 Ors.4 8. We must first advert to the exposition in In Re: 9. There is a broad consensus that the recommendations

made and directions given in In Re: Destruction of Public

and Private Properties (supra), at paragraph 3 hereinabove

are comprehensive to deal with the issue of large-scale

destruction of private and public properties which unwinds

during violent protests and demonstrations. We find that the

Committee‘s recommendations noted in the said judgment

traverse the length and breadth of the issue at hand and, if

implemented in their entirety, would go a long way in

removing the bane of violence caused against persons and

property. As far as implementation of the said

recommendations, is concerned, and as stated earlier, the

learned Attorney General‘s submission is that the Union is

mindful of the dictum in In Re: Destruction of Public and

Private Properties (supra), and has advised the States to

follow the same in its letter and spirit and also drafted a

bill for initiating legislative changes in conformity 26 with the recommendations of this Court, namely, The

Prevention of Damage to Public Property (Amendment) Bill,

2015, which is currently being examined in consultation with

the Ministry of Law and Justice. The Bill reads as under: Amendment of Act 2. In the Prevention of Damage to Public 3 of 1984
3 of 1984. Property Act, 1984 (hereinafter referred to as
 the principal Act), after the words ―and with
 fine‖, wherever they occur, the words ―which
 shall be equivalent to the market value of the
 public property damaged‖ shall be inserted.
Amendment of 3. In the principle Act, in section 2 , after Section 2 . clause (a), the following clause shall be
 inserted, -namely :- Amendment of 4. In section 3 of the principal Act, in sub- Section3 . section (2), in the proviso, for the words ―for
 reasons‖, the words ―for special reasons‖ shall
 be substituted. Insertion of new 5. After section 4 of the principal Act the
sections 4A, 4B, following sections shall be inserted, namely :- Divisional Magistrate or Executive Magistrate
 who may entrust the same to said police
 officer or any other person; (iii) Get, the statement of the Videographer
 recorded before the concerned Sub-Divisional
 Magistrate or Executive Magistrate in such
 manner, as may be prescribed.‖. Amendment of 6. In section 5 of the principal Act- Section5 . (i) After the words and figure ―or section
 4 ‖, the words and figure ―or section 4B‖ shall
 be inserted; (ii) After the words ―for such release‖, the
 words ―and there are reasonable grounds to
 believe that he is not guilty of the said
 offence‖ shall be inserted. Insertion of new 7. After section 6 of the principal Act, the
sections 6A and following sections shall be inserted, namely :- Rules to be laid 6B. Every rule made by the Central
before Parliament Government under this Act shall be laid, as
 soon as may be after it is made, before each
 House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
 a total period of thirty days, which may be
 comprised in one session or in two or more
 successive sessions, and if, before the expiry
 of the session immediately following the
 session or the successive sessions aforesaid,
 both Houses agree in making any
 modification in the rule or both Houses agree
 that the ride should not be made, the rule
 shall thereafter have effect only in such
 modified form or be of no effect, as the case
 may be; so, however, that any such
 modification or annulment shall be without
 prejudice to the validity of anything
 previously done under that rule.‖ ‖ 29 For the time being, we do not wish to comment on the efficacy

of the proposed legislative changes including as to whether it

would fully address the points noted in the

guidelines/recommendations in In Re: Destruction of Public

and Private Properties (supra). We keep that issue open to

be decided in appropriate proceedings if and when the

occasion arises. We hope that the said Bill will be taken to its

logical end in the right earnest. 10. On the issue of whether additional measures need to be

introduced, the learned Attorney General has also made

certain suggestions which can be implemented as interim

measures, pending the outcome of the aforestated Bill, to

fasten accountability and prescribe timelines for the law- enforcement agencies. The same are set out hereunder: 11. At this stage, it would be apposite to also consider the

judgment rendered by a three-Judge bench of this Court in Tehseen S. Poonawalla (supra), where this Court had to deal

with a specific type of mob violence and the resulting

restraints on personal liberty and free speech. In that case, the

petitioners had prayed for a writ to take measures to curb

incidents of lynching and mob violence in respect of cattle 31 trade and related activities. At the macro level, the

dispensation to tackle the incidents of targeted violence and

commission of offences affecting the human body and against

private and public property by mobs operating under the garb

of self-assumed and self-appointed protectors of law would be

similar to that of damage caused due to mob violence for any

other cause. Taking note of burgeoning instances of

vigilantism and lynching, this Court propounded that states

had the duty to ensure that individuals or groups did not take

the law into their own hands to prevent untoward incidents

and to prevent crime which may include damage caused to

property. In that context, the Court observed: State actors cannot be allowed to take the place of law or the
law enforcing agency. A fabricated identity with bigoted
approach sans acceptance of plurality and diversity
results in provocative sentiments and display of
reactionary retributive attitude transforming itself into
dehumanisation of human beings. Such an atmosphere is
one in which rational debate, logical discussion and
sound administration of law eludes thereby manifesting
clear danger to various freedoms including freedom of
speech and expression. One man's freedom of thought,
action, speech, expression, belief, conscience and
personal choices is not being tolerated by the other and
this is due to lack of objective rationalisation of acts and
situations. In this regard, it has been aptly said:- "Freedom
of speech is a principal pillar of a free government; When
this support is taken away, the constitution of a free society
is dissolved and tyranny is erected on its ruins." 21. Freedom of speech and expression in different forms
is the élan vital of sustenance of all other rights and is
the very seed for germinating the growth of democratic
views. Plurality of voices celebrates the constitutionalist idea
of a liberal democracy and ought not to be suppressed. That
is the idea and essence of our nation which cannot be, to
borrow a line from Rabindranath Tagore, ―broken up into
fragments by narrow domestic walls‖ of caste, creed, race,
class or religion. Pluralism and tolerance are essential
virtues and constitute the building blocks of a truly free and
democratic society. It must be emphatically stated that a
dynamic contemporary constitutional democracy imbibes the
essential feature of accommodating pluralism in thought and
approach so as to preserve cohesiveness and unity.
Intolerance arising out of a dogmatic mindset sows the
seeds of upheaval and has a chilling effect on freedom of
thought and expression. Hence, tolerance has to be
fostered and practised and not allowed to be diluted in
any manner. 22. In S. Rangarajan v. P. Jagjivan Ram and others , K.
Jagannatha Shetty, J., although in a different context,
referred to the decision of the European Court of Human
Rights in Handyside v. United Kingdom wherein it has 33 been held thus in the context of Article 10 of the European
 Convention on Human Rights (ECHR):- 23. In a rights based approach to constitutional legitimacy,
 the right to life and liberty is considered paramount and,
 therefore, democratic governments must propel and drive
 towards stronger foothold for liberties so as to ensure
 sustenance of higher values of democracy thereby paving the
 path for a spontaneous constitutional order. Crime knows no
 religion and neither the perpetrator nor the victim can be
 viewed through the lens of race, caste, class or religion. The
 State has a positive obligation to protect the fundamental
 rights and freedoms of all individuals irrespective of race,
 caste, class or religion. The State has the primary
 responsibility to foster a secular, pluralistic and
 multiculturalistic social order so as to allow free play of ideas
 and beliefs and co-existence of mutually contradictory
 perspectives. Stifling free voices can never bode well for a
 true democracy. It is essential to build societies which
 embrace diversity in all spheres and rebuild trust of the
 citizenry in the State machinery.”
 (emphasis supplied) 12. Having observed thus, the Court issued extensive

guidelines in the nature of preventive, remedial and punitive

measures to curb incidents of mob lynching and vigilantism as

set out hereinbelow: charge of the Police Stations of the identified areas are extra
cautious if any instance of mob violence within their
jurisdiction comes to their notice. (iv) The Nodal Officer, so designated, shall hold regular
meetings (at least once a month) with the local intelligence
units in the district along with all Station House Officers of
the district so as to identify the existence of the tendencies of
vigilantism, mob violence or lynching in the district and take
steps to prohibit instances of dissemination of offensive
material through different social media platforms or any
other means for inciting such tendencies. The Nodal Officer
shall also make efforts to eradicate hostile environment
against any community or caste which is targeted in such
incidents. (v) The Director General of Police/the Secretary, Home
Department of the concerned States shall take regular review
meetings (at least once a quarter) with all the Nodal Officers
and State Police Intelligence heads. The Nodal Officers shall
bring to the notice of the DGP any inter-district co-
ordination issues for devising a strategy to tackle lynching
and mob violence related issues at the State level. (vi) It shall be the duty of every police officer to cause a mob
to disperse, by exercising his power under Section 129 of
CrPC, which, in his opinion, has a tendency to cause 35 violence or wreak the havoc of lynching in the disguise of
vigilantism or otherwise. (vii) The Home Department of the Government of India must
take initiative and work in co-ordination with the State
Governments for sensitising the law enforcement agencies
and by involving all the stake holders to identify the
measures for prevention of mob violence and lynching
against any caste or community and to implement the
constitutional goal of social justice and the Rule of Law. (viii) The Director General of Police shall issue a circular to
the Superintendents of Police with regard to police patrolling
in the sensitive areas keeping in view the incidents of the
past and the intelligence obtained by the office of the
Director General. It singularly means that there should be
seriousness in patrolling so that the anti-social elements
involved in such crimes are discouraged and remain within
the boundaries of law thus fearing to even think of taking
the law into their own hands. (ix) The Central and the State Governments should
broadcast on radio and television and other media platforms
including the official websites of the Home Department and
Police of the States that lynching and mob violence of any
kind shall invite serious consequence under the law. (x) It shall be the duty of the Central Government as well as
the State Governments to take steps to curb and stop
dissemination of irresponsible and explosive messages,
videos and other material on various social media platforms
which have a tendency to incite mob violence and lynching of
any kind. (xi) The police shall cause to register FIR under Section 153A of IPC and/or other relevant provisions of law against
persons who disseminate irresponsible and explosive
messages and videos having content which is likely to incite
mob violence and lynching of any kind. (xii) The Central Government shall also issue appropriate
directions/advisories to the State Governments which would
reflect the gravity and seriousness of the situation and the
measures to be taken. B. Remedial Measures (i) Despite the preventive measures taken by the State Police,
if it comes to the notice of the local police that an incident of
lynching or mob violence has taken place, the jurisdictional
police station shall immediately cause to lodge an FIR,
without any undue delay, under the relevant provisions of IPC and/or other provisions of law. (ii) It shall be the duty of the Station House Officer, in whose
police station such FIR is registered, to forthwith intimate
the Nodal Officer in the district who shall, in turn, ensure
that there is no further harassment of the family members of
the victim(s). (iii) Investigation in such offences shall be personally
monitored by the Nodal Officer who shall be duty bound to
ensure that the investigation is carried out effectively and
the charge-sheet in such cases is filed within the statutory
period from the date of registration of the FIR or arrest of the
accused, as the case may be. (iv) The State Governments shall prepare a lynching/mob
violence victim compensation scheme in the light of the
provisions of Section 357A of CrPC within one month from
the date of this judgment. In the said scheme for
computation of compensation, the State Governments shall
give due regard to the nature of bodily injury, psychological
injury and loss of earnings including loss of opportunities of
employment and education and expenses incurred on
account of legal and medical expenses. The said
compensation scheme must also have a provision for interim
relief to be paid to the victim(s) or to the next of kin of the
deceased within a period of thirty days of the incident of mob
violence/lynching. (v) The cases of lynching and mob violence shall be
specifically tried by designated court/Fast Track Courts
earmarked for that purpose in each district. Such courts
shall hold trial of the case on a day to day basis. The trial
shall preferably be concluded within six months from the
date of taking cognizance. We may hasten to add that this
direction shall apply to even pending cases. The District
Judge shall assign those cases as far as possible to one
jurisdictional court so as to ensure expeditious disposal
thereof. It shall be the duty of the State Governments and
the Nodal Officers in particular to see that the prosecuting
agency strictly carries out its role in appropriate furtherance
of the trial. (vi) To set a stern example in cases of mob violence and
lynching, upon conviction of the accused person(s), the trial
court must ordinarily award maximum sentence as provided
for various offences under the provisions of the IPC . (vii) The courts trying the cases of mob violence and lynching
may, on application by a witness or by the public prosecutor
in relation to such witness or on its own motion, take such
measures, as it deems fit, for protection and for concealing
the identity and address of the witness. (viii) The victim(s) or the next of kin of the deceased in cases
 of mob violence and lynching shall be given timely notice of
 any court proceedings and he/she shall be entitled to be
 heard at the trial in respect of applications such as bail,
 discharge, release and parole filed by the accused persons.
 They shall also have the right to file written submissions on
 conviction, acquittal or sentencing. (ix) The victim(s) or the next of kin of the deceased in cases of
 mob violence and lynching shall receive free legal aid if he or
 she so chooses and engage any advocate of his/her choice
 from amongst those enrolled in the legal aid panel under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 . C. Punitive Measures (i) Wherever it is found that a police officer or an officer of
 the district administration has failed to comply with the
 aforesaid directions in order to prevent and/or investigate
 and/or facilitate expeditious trial of any crime of mob
 violence and lynching, the same shall be considered as an
 act of deliberate negligence and/or misconduct for which
 appropriate action must be taken against him/her and not
 limited to departmental action under the service rules. The
 departmental action shall be taken to its logical conclusion
 preferably within six months by the authority of the first
 instance. (ii) In terms of the ruling of this Court in Arumugam Servai
 v. State of Tamil Nadu 21 , the States are directed to take
 disciplinary action against the concerned officials if it is
 found that (i) such official(s) did not prevent the incident,
 despite having prior knowledge of it, or (ii) where the incident
 has already occurred, such official(s) did not promptly
 apprehend and institute criminal proceedings against the
 culprits. 41. The measures that are directed to be taken have to be
 carried out within four weeks by the Central and the State
 Governments. Reports of compliance be filed within the said
 period before the Registry of this Court.‖

These recommendations comprehensively set out the manner

in which the State and law-enforcement agencies are expected

to deal with the menace of mob violence specifically lynching

and vigilantism and further, assign responsibility and 38 accountability to officials to curb such incidents as also

 punitive measures to deter law enforcement agencies from

 shirking their duties. 13. Our attention was also invited to the decision in Koshy

 Jacob Vs. Union of India and Ors. , 5 wherein an identical

 direction was sought for implementation of guidelines issued

 by this Court In Re: Destruction of Public and Private

 Properties (supra). The two-Judge Bench, after adverting to

 the stand taken by the Union of India in its reply affidavit and

 the statement made by the Attorney General for India,

 disposed of the said writ petition in the following terms: The writ petition is accordingly disposed of.‖ 14. In Tehseen Poonawalla (supra), the Court adverted to

 the decision in Shakti Vahini Vs. Union of India and Ors.,6 wherein the Court was called upon to address the issue of

 honour killing and other forms of honour crimes inflicted on

 young couples/families by Khap Panahcayats. In paragraph

 55, the Court issued directions to the States to take measures

 to evolve a robust mechanism to meet the challenges of the

 agonizing effect of honour crimes by Khap Panchayats. Paragraph 55 reads thus: caste or inter-religious marriage (or any other marriage
which does not meet their acceptance), the jurisdictional
police official shall cause to immediately lodge an FIR under
the appropriate provisions of the Penal Code including
Sections 141, 143, 503 read with Section 506 IPC.
55.2.2. Upon registration of FIR, intimation shall be
simultaneously given to the Superintendent of Police/Deputy
Superintendent of Police who, in turn, shall ensure that
effective investigation of the crime is done and taken to its
logical end with promptitude. 55.2.3. Additionally, immediate steps should be taken to
provide security to the couple/family and, if necessary, to
remove them to a safe house within the same district or
elsewhere keeping in mind their safety and threat
perception. The State Government may consider of
establishing a safe house at each District Headquarter for
that purpose. Such safe houses can cater to accommodate: Such safe houses may be placed under the supervision of
the jurisdictional District Magistrate and Superintendent of
Police. 55.2.4. The District Magistrate/Superintendent of Police
must deal with the complaint regarding threat administered
to such couple/family with utmost sensitivity. It should be 42 first ascertained whether the bachelor-bachelorette are
capable adults. Thereafter, if necessary, they may be
provided logistical support for solemnising their marriage
and/or for being duly registered under police protection, if
they so desire. After the marriage, if the couple so desire,
they can be provided accommodation on payment of nominal
charges in the safe house initially for a period of one month
to be extended on monthly basis but not exceeding one year
in aggregate, depending on their threat assessment on case-
to-case basis. 55.2.5. The initial inquiry regarding the complaint received
from the couple (bachelor-bachelorette or a young married
couple) or upon receiving information from an independent
source that the relationship/marriage of such couple is
opposed by their family members/local community/khaps
shall be entrusted by the District Magistrate/Superintendent
of Police to an officer of the rank of Additional
Superintendent of Police. He shall conduct a preliminary
inquiry and ascertain the authenticity, nature and gravity of
threat perception. On being satisfied as to the authenticity of
such threats, he shall immediately submit a report to the
Superintendent of Police in not later than one week.
55.2.6. The District Superintendent of Police, upon receipt of
such report, shall direct the Deputy Superintendent of Police
in charge of the sub-division concerned to cause to register
an FIR against the persons threatening the couple(s) and, if
necessary, invoke Section 151 CrPC Additionally, the Deputy
Superintendent of Police shall personally supervise the
progress of investigation and ensure that the same is
completed and taken to its logical end with promptitude. In
the course of investigation, the persons concerned shall be
booked without any exception including the members who
have participated in the assembly. If the involvement of the
members of khap panchayat comes to the fore, they shall
also be charged for the offence of conspiracy or abetment, as
the case may be. 55.3. Punitive measures
55.3.1. Any failure by either the police or district
officer/officials to comply with the aforesaid directions shall
be considered as an act of deliberate negligence and/or
misconduct for which departmental action must be taken
under the service rules. The departmental action shall be
initiated and taken to its logical end, preferably not
exceeding six months, by the authority of the first instance. 55.3.2. In terms of the ruling of this Court in Arumugam
 Servai7, the States are directed to take disciplinary action
 against the officials concerned if it is found that: 55.3.3. The State Governments shall create Special Cells in
 every district comprising of the Superintendent of Police, the
 District Social Welfare Officer and District Adi-Dravidar
 Welfare Officer to receive petitions/complaints of harassment
 of and threat to couples of inter-caste marriage.
 55.3.4. These Special Cells shall create a 24-hour helpline to
 receive and register such complaints and to provide
 necessary assistance/advice and protection to the couple.
 55.3.5. The criminal cases pertaining to honour killing or
 violence to the couple(s) shall be tried before the designated
 court/fast track court earmarked for that purpose. The trial
 must proceed on day-to-day basis to be concluded preferably
 within six months from the date of taking cognizance of the
 offence. We may hasten to add that this direction shall apply
 even to pending cases. The District Judge concerned shall
 assign those cases, as far as possible, to one jurisdictional
 court so as to ensure expeditious disposal thereof.‖ 15. We are conscious of the fact that the crimes committed

by groups of self-appointed keepers of public morality may be

on account of different reasons or causes, but the underlying

purpose of such group of persons is to exercise unlawful

power of authority and that too, without sanction of State and

create fear in the minds of the public or, in a given situation,

section of the community. The dispensation for preventing

occurrences of such crimes or remedial measures and punitive 44 measures would vest in the same police in the State. Therefore, a comprehensive structure will have to be evolved in

the respective States so that the issues of accountability and

efficiency in curbing incidents of peaceful protests turning into

mob violence, causing damage to property including

investigation, remedial and punitive measures, are duly

addressed. While doing so, the directions given by this Court

in In Re: Destruction of Public and Private Properties

(supra), Shakti Vahini (supra) and Tehseen Poonawalla (supra), must be borne in mind. 16. There are overlapping areas of directions which albeit

apply to the situations referred to in the concerned decision. For the purpose of the present writ petition, we have no

hesitation in observing that the dispensation can be similar to

the one decided recently in Tehseen Poonawalla (supra), for

which reason the guidelines delineated in the said decision must apply proprio vigore in respect of peaceful protests

turning into mob violence, causing damage to public and

private properties. A. Ex abundanti cautela, we may hasten to clarify that

similar interim measures will operate in respect of any

peaceful protest turning into mob violence, causing loss of life

or damage to public and private properties, including violence

designed to instill fear in the minds and terrorise the common

man, in the absence of any law to that effect. The

recommendations / directions elucidated hereunder are not

exhaustive but only to set out broad contour of the measures

required to be taken and are in addition to the

recommendations/directions given in In Re: Destruction of

Public and Private Properties (supra): information portal on its website and on its internet-based

application(s) for reporting instances of mob violence and

destruction of public and private properties. B. Remedies to minimize, if not extirpate, the
impending mob violence a) The Nodal Officer(s) will coordinate with local emergency

services, including police stations, fire brigades, hospital and

medical services and disaster management authorities during

incidents of mob violence in order to have a comprehensive

and consolidated response to the situation. b) The authorities must consider the use of non-lethal

crowd-control devices, like water cannons and tear gas, which

cause minimum injury to people but at the same time, act as

an effective deterrent against mob force. c) The authorities must ensure that arrests of miscreants

found on the spot are done in the right earnest. d) The Nodal Officer(s), may consider taking appropriate

steps as per law including to impose reasonable restrictions on 48 the social media and internet-based communication services

or mobile applications, by invoking enabling provisions of law

during the relevant period of mob violence, if the situation so

warrants. e) The Nodal Officer(s) must take coordinated efforts and

issue messages across various audio-visual mediums to

restore peace and to stop/control rumours. This can extend to

issuing communications on local TV channels, radio stations,

social media like Twitter etc.

C. Liability of person causing violence a) If a call to violence results in damage to property, either

directly or indirectly, and has been made through a

spokesperson or through social media accounts of any

group/organization(s) or by any individual, appropriate action

should be taken against such person(s) including under

Sections 153A, 295A read with 298 and 425 of the Indian

Penal Code , 1860. b) In instances where a group/organisation has staged a

protest or demonstration resulting in violence and damage to

property, the leaders and office bearers of such 49 group/organisation should physically present themselves for

questioning, on their own, within 24 (twenty four) hours, in

the police station within whose jurisdiction the violence and

damage occurred. Any such person(s) failing to present

himself/herself in such manner without any sufficient reason

should be proceeded against as a suspect and legal process

must be initiated forthwith against him/her including for

being declared an absconder in accordance with law. c) A person arrested for either committing or initiating,

promoting, instigating or in any way causing to occur any act

of violence which results in loss of life or damage to property

may be granted conditional bail upon depositing the quantified

loss caused due to such violence or furnishing security for

such quantified loss. In case of more than one person involved

in such act of violence, each one of them shall be jointly,

severally and vicariously liable to pay the quantified loss. If the

loss is yet to be quantified by the appropriate authority, the

judge hearing the bail application may quantify the amount of

tentative damages (which shall be subject to final

determination thereof by the appropriate authority) on the 50 principle stated in paragraph 15 of the decision in In Re: E. Compensation a) The person/persons who has/have initiated, promoted,

instigated or any way caused to occur any act of violence

against cultural programmes or which results in loss of life or

damage to public or private property either directly or

indirectly, shall be made liable to compensate the victims of

such violence. b) Claims arising out of such acts of violence should be

dealt with in the manner prescribed in paragraph 15 of In Re: 17. The recommendations that we have made hereinabove be

implemented by the Central and State governments as

expeditiously as possible, preferably within a period of 8 (eight)

weeks from today. 18. While parting, we place on record our sincere

appreciation for the able assistance and constructive 53 suggestions given by the learned Attorney General for India,

the Additional Solicitor General, counsel for the petitioners

and other counsel appearing in this case. 19. We accordingly dispose of the writ petition in the

aforementioned terms. .………………………….CJI. (Dipak Misra)

 …………………………..….J.
 (A.M. Khanwilkar)

 …………………………..….J.
 (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud)
New Delhi; October 01, 2018.