1. All these applications for anticipatory bail

under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code are

filed by the accused of I-CR No.3 of 2018 registered on

19.05.2018 with CID (Crimes), Surat Zone Police Station,

Surat for offences under Sections 364(A) , 365 , 384 , 387 , 343 , 323 , 504 , 506(2) , 170 , 193 and 201 of the Indian

Penal Code and Section 25(1)(A) of the Arms Act.

1.1 Considering the fact that all the applicants of

these applications are accused of the same CR and

represented by the same Advocate, with consent of the Page 1 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

parties, all these applications are taken up for hearing

jointly. 2. It is narrated in the FIR that the applicants

and co-accused have entered into conspiracy to abduct one

Piyush Savaliya and illegally detained him in a farmhouse

and through him, procured whereabouts of another victim

Dhaval Mavani and abducted Dhaval Mavani also and

forcibly transferred large amount of Bitcoins (virtual

currency) in the account of accused No.1 (Shailesh Bhatt)

and also received an amount of Rs.14 lakhs in cash with

help of courier service ("Aangadiya"). It is in this

connection that the FIR came to be registered by

Detective Inspector of CIT (Crimes). 3. In the FIR, it is alleged inter alia as under:- Therefore, Piyush Savaliya got afraid of the threats of

Jignesh Kheni and due to pressure of Jignesh Kheni, he,

for the first time, called for Rs.15 lakhs from Amreli by

Angadiya courier through Shailesh Bhatt and out of which

Rs.7.50 lakhs were given to Piyush Savaliya.

Parsottambhai, the maternal uncle of Piyush sent the

remaining Rs.7.50 lakhs to Jignesh Kheni at Surat from

Amreli by Angadiya courier. Thereafter, Jignesh Kheni

frequently threatened to the maternal uncle of Piyush and

Punit, the brother in law of Piyush at Surat on phone

that, Piyush, leave Gujarat, Dhaval has left the country.

If Piyush leaves Gujarat, I shall get him more money from

Shailesh Bhatt. Because, Piyush has a threat from

Shailesh Bhatt, Kirit Vala, Jignesh Moradiya, J.K.Rajput,

Umesh @ Umalo, Bavaji and other persons. If Piyush

appears before the police, they are afraid that, they

will be implicated in two offences of abduction and

criminal force. Therefore, Shailesh Bhatt and other Page 5 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

persons will give him money. You take this money. By

saying so, he convinced Punit, the bother in law of

Piyush and gave Rs.69 lakhs to Piyush in piecemeal after

getting the money from Shailesh Bhatt. 3.4 It is further alleged that thereafter, Dhaval

Mavani was beaten up and pressurized to give Bitcoins and

cash, and 2256 Bitcoins worth Rs. 1,31,07,36,000/- (price

of one Bitcoin about Rs. 5.81 lakh as on 01/01/18) were

forcefully transferred to the block chain wallet having

ID 003CDPD9-E9804622-84-CD-8ED90267DC96 of the Apple

Mobile of Shailesh Bhatt through Nikunj Bhatt at gun

point. As Shailesh Bhatt was not holding Binoy Excement

Wallet, Shailesh Bhatt called Kirit Paldiya in Sachin

area in order to get lite-coin transferred from Dhaval

Mavani, and total 11,000 lite coins were forcefully

transferred to the Binance Exchange Account having user

ID Anjani Enterprise2012 and email dcom belonging to

Kirit Paldiya from Dhaval Mavani by confining him in the

vehicle at the instance of Shailesh Bhatt. The said 11000

lite coins were converted into 166 Bitcoins by Kirit

Paldiya. The price of the same can be considered to be

Rs. 9, 64, 46,000/-. Thereafter, Shailesh Bhatt, Kirit

Vala, Jignesh Mordiya and Nikunj Bhatt and others

threatened Dhaval Mavani and demanded more money to

release him from abduction. Therefore, Dhaval Mavani Page 6 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

contacted caviar of Bitcoin Suresh Gorsiya, residing at

Surat over mobile and got deposited Rs.14.50 crores in

the name of Raju through Vijay Angadiya, Surat by giving

mobile number of Suresh Gorsiya and informed to send the

said Rs. 14.50 crores to the Income Tax Inspector P.D.

Jadeja, Mumbai, whose name was given by Shailesh Bhatt,

through Vijay Angadiya. Thereafter, Dhaval Mavani was

threatened not to inform anyone about this incident and

to leave India and released from abduction and dropped

from the vehicle, and aforesaid amount was extorted

towards ransom. Rs. 14.50 crores were transferred to

Umesh Angadiya, Mumbai from Vijay Angadiya, Mumbai at the

instance of Shailesh Bhatt. The said money was called for

from P. Umesh Angadiya, Mumbai to Surat. Shailesh Bhatt

received Rs. 10 crores through his accomplice Hitesh

Jotasana. Shailesh Bhatt personally received Rs. 4 crores

at Infocity, Gandhinagar and Rs. 60 lakh was called for

through Kirit Paldiya at Gandhinagar, and Shailesh Bhatt

received the same through P. Umesh Angadiya, Ahmedabad.

Out of 2256 Bitcoins extorted from Dhaval Mavani, 500

Bitcoins were given to Jignesh Mordiya and 350 Bitcoins

were given to Kirit Vala. During investigation of the

application made by Shailesh Bhatt, at the time of taking

Shailesh Bhatt's mobile Apple X as evidence, Shailesh

Bhatt, himself and with the help of others, destroyed

evidence so that evidence pertaining to Bitcoins Page 7 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

transactions is not found and tampered with email

addresses associated with block chain wallet and got them

changed and misled the investigating officer. 4. Heard Mr.P.M.Lakhani, learned Advocate for the

applicants and learned Public Prosecutor Mr.Mitesh Amin

for the respondent-State. 5. It is submitted on behalf of the applicants

that the case of the investigation at best against the

applicants is that they are co-conspirators. Otherwise,

there is no specific role attributed to the applicants

which can amount to an offence. 5.1 It is vehemently submitted that the present FIR

is nothing but a counter-blast to the FIR filed by the

complainant being I-CR No.2 of 2018 registered with CIR

(Crimes), Gandhinagar. The said FIR is filed by the

informant-Shailendrasinh Raghuvanshi for offences of

abduction and extortion along with other offences against

several police officers. In the investigation of the

said FIR, it is also revealed that even an MLA is

involved and therefore, as a part of cover-up exercise,

present FIR is concocted and filed against main accused-

Shailesh Bhatt and in that process, dragged names of the

present applicants as they are associated with said

Shailesh Bhatt. Page 8 of 18 abduction of one Piyush Savaliya and Dhaval Mavani is

mentioned. Still, none of them has come forward to

register this FIR and strangely, Police Officer has

become informant. This is for obvious reasons.

5.3 It is submitted that in the FIR filed by

Shailendrasinh Raghuvanshi, which is prior in point of

time, the investigation reveals involvement of senior

police officers as well as MLA and his relative. The

investigation is unable to even apprehend said MLA, who

is still absconding. 5.4 It is submitted that allegations in the present

FIR are completely baseless and imaginary story of the

informant. It is submitted that till date, the

investigation is unable to even record statement of

Dhaval Mavani, who is alleged to have been abducted. The

statement recorded of Piyush Savaliya is also completely

imaginary and only to sensationalize the entire issue.

5.5 It is submitted that insofar as the applicant

of Criminal Misc.Application No.14587 of 2018 - Kirit

Vala is concerned, the only allegation is of receiving

Bitcoins. It is submitted that Bitcoins being virtual

money, it cannot be said that the offence of receiving

money under Sections 384 and 387 is made out against him. Page 9 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

Moreover, merely being an associate of main accused would

not make the applicant party to crime. 5.6 It is further submitted that insofar as

applicant of Criminal Misc.Application No.14615 of 2018 -

Hitesh Jotasana is concerned, in the entire FIR, the only

allegation is that he had received cash amount from

courier service ("Aangadiya") on behalf of accused No.1 -

Shailesh Bhatt. It is submitted that the applicant is

only an employee of the main accused. He was only

following instructions to receive money from courier

service. 5.7 It is submitted that insofar as applicant of

Criminal Misc.Application No.14613 of 2018 - J.K.Rajput

is concerned, the investigation is unable to point out

any role in the entire incident and the only allegation

in the FIR is that this applicant was one of many persons

present whom the abductor seen during incident of

abduction. 5.8 It is submitted that this offence is a

concocted offence as can be made out on the basis of

elaborate narration made in the FIR. Moreover,

allegations, insofar as applicants are concerned, are not

supported by any evidence. There is no identification

parade to ascertain the identity of the applicants to Page 10 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

have participated in the offence of abduction. It is

submitted that deliberately, reference is made to

transaction of cash amount only to satisfy legal

requirement of real money as the entire offence is

pertaining to transfer of Bitcoins, which is virtual

money and would not attract definition of transfer of

money pursuant to offence of abduction and extortion. 6. As against this, learned Public Prosecutor

submitted that in all, 11 accused persons are involved in

the offence, of whom only 5 are arrested and rest are

absconding. Even the main accused - Shailesh Bhatt,

whose anticipatory bail application is rejected by the

Sessions Court, is also not available for investigation.

6.1 It is submitted that the entire incident of

abduction was with a specific object of getting money

which was stored in the form of Bitcoins by accused No.1.

The incident of abduction had continued from 30.01.2018

to 01.02.2018 and during this period, the investigation

was able to collect Call Detail Records to establish

conspiracy. 6.2 It is further submitted that during the course

of investigation, statement of victim - Piyush Savaliya

was recorded on 19.05.2018, wherein roles of the

applicants are coming out on record. Page 11 of 18 (name of not revealed as investigation is on going) is

also recorded on 19.05.2018, which is supporting the case

of prosecution that after incident of abduction, attempts

were made to win-over the victim so that he can be

prevented from going to police. 6.4 It is submitted that statement of another

witness (name of not revealed as investigation is on

going), who is an ethical hacker, is also recorded, who

narrated the role of main accused with regard to recovery

/transfer of Bitcoins. The investigation has also

recorded statement of another witness (name of not

revealed as investigation is on going) in support of its

case regarding abduction and illegal confinement of

victim at a farmhouse. 6.5 Learned Public Prosecutor has drawn attention

of this Court to the co-accused persons as well and

submitted that as the investigation is in progress, as

per the judgment of this Court in case of Kailash

Govindram Rathi Vs. State of Gujarat , reported in 2008

(1) GLR, 750, statement of co-accused can be referred to

and relied upon at this stage. 6.6 Learned Public Prosecutor has thereafter

referred to and relied upon the judgment of the Apex Page 12 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

Court in the case of Pokar Ram Vs. State of Rajasthan &

Ors. , reported in (1985) 2 SCC, 597, to submit that the

Court must be cautious and circumspect to exercise powers

under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which

are discretionary in nature. 6.7 It is submitted that the investigation is at a

crucial stage and the accused persons are involved in

transfer of money which runs into several crores and from

their conduct, which is coming out on record during the

course of investigation, it is evident that these accused

persons could go to any extent to influence the witnesses

or damager investigation. In support of this, he

referred to a specific paragraph in the statement of

abducted victim from whom the accused persons were able

to extract notarized affidavit in anticipation of action

against these persons. 7. Heard learned Advocates for the parties and

taken into consideration the case papers. 8. The main submission on behalf of the applicants

is that the FIR is a counter-blast to previous FIR being

I-CR No.2 of 2018 registered on 08.04.2018 by the

informant in connection with the incident which took

place on and between 11.02.2018 to 16.02.2018. The said

FIR refers to abduction of accused No.1 of the present Page 13 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

FIR - Shailesh Bhatt and involvement of police officers

in the offence. Moreover, the FIR also narrates method

adopted by accused persons therein in transferring

Bitcoins and cash money. It is pertinent to observe that

the present FIR is registered on 19.05.2018 pursuant to

incident of abduction for period between 30.01.2018 to

01.02.2018, which is prior in point of time to the

incident of previous FIR. It may happen that there is

some interlink between the two abductions mentioned in

two separate FIRs. However, it is apparent that both the

FIRs refer to two independent incidents, at independent

time and regarding abduction of different persons.

Merely because there is some connection, more

particularly the complainant of the previous FIR is

accused in the present FIR, cannot be said to falsify the

present FIR when sufficient evidence in the form of

statements of witnesses are available to substantiate

abduction, threats and transfer of money in form of

Bitcoins and cash. 8.1 The Court has also perused statements of

witnesses which would reveal roles of the applicants in

this offence. The entire incident began with conspiracy

to trace one person named Kumbhani, from whom money in

form of Bitcoins was to be received /transferred. As a

part of conspiracy, six times meetings were held, in Page 14 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

which all the present applicants had participated.

Pursuant to this, victim was abducted on 30.01.2018. His

abduction was in two parts and in the second part of

abduction, roles of Kirit Vala and J.K.Rajput are coming

out. Over and above this, in the trip to Goa in search

of said Kumbhani, both these applicants were part of the

team which proceeded to Goa and returned midway.

8.2 Thereafter, role of Kirit Vala is coming out in

carrying out reccy of house of another victim - Dhaval

Mavani and his abduction. The CDR available with the

investigation is able to establish inter-connect between

the accused persons and the applicants. The

circumstances therefore against Kirit Vala are

participating in the meetings for conspiracy, abductions

of both the victims and receiving 350 Bitcoins, visit to

farmhouse were victims were confined and participating in

forcibly making of an affidavit of victim Piyush

Savaliya. 8.3 Similarly, role of J.K.Rajput is his presence

in the meetings for conspiracy and role in abductions of

both the victims. 8.4 Insofar as accused Hitesh Jotasana is

concerned, according to prosecution, he is part of the

meeting for conspiracy, received 100 Bitcoins, received Page 15 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

10 crores cash from courier company, mobile sim card

running in his name is used by main accused, CDR to show

that he is in constant touch with other accused persons

and that he has visited farmhouse where both the victims

were confined. 8.5 The Court has perused statement of abducted

victim. In his statement, categoric role is attributed

to accused persons. This includes role of the applicants

in forcing him to prepare an affidavit in anticipation of

any criminal action against the applicants and also

influencing the victim and his relative by paying huge

amount so that the victim does not go to police to

complaint about the offence. 8.6 The Court has also perused statement of

relative of the victim and this statement also supports

the version given by the victim insofar as receiving huge

amount of money to prevent the victim from going to

police and also to the threats issued so that the victim

flees out of country. 8.7 The Court has thereafter perused statement of a

witness who is ethical hacker. It appears that through

this person, transaction of huge amount has taken place

in the form of Bitcoins. The Court has also perused

statement of a witness who is security of the farmhouse Page 16 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

where the victims were confined and this witness supports

presence of all the three applicants at the time and

place where abducted victims were confined.

8.8 In the case of Pokar Ram (supra), the Supreme

Court was examining grant of anticipatory bail in a

serious offence by the Sessions Court and rejection of

cancellation of the anticipatory bail by the High Court.

While doing so, the Supreme Court held as under:- 8.9 In the instant case, the Court, having recored Page 17 of 18 R/CR.MA/14587/2018 ORDER

as above, finds that the investigation is at a crucial

juncture, many accused are still absconding and the

investigation is able to point out sufficient evidence to

show prima facie involvement of the applicants in the

offence. The Court also finds that though the previous

offence, i.e. FIR being I-CR No.2 of 2018 of CID

(Crimes), Gandhinagar and the present offence may be

connected to each other, however, the two incidents are

independent, involving different victims and would

therefore be treated as independent investigation and to

be viewed on the facts and circumstances of the

respective cases. 9. The Court is also of the opinion that as the

investigation is at a crucial stage, further elaborate

discussion is not necessary. 10. The Court finds that no error is committed by

the Sessions Court in rejecting the anticipatory bail

applications. 11. In view of the aforesaid, no case is made out

to grant anticipatory bail. The applications are

rejected. Rule is discharged. (A.Y. KOGJE, J)
SHITOLE Page 18 of 18