IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 CrMP(M) No. : 2636 of 2023

 . The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Virender Singh, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. For the applicant : Mr. N.S. Chandel, Senior Advocate,
 with Mr. Jyotirmay Bhatt, Advocate. For the respondent : Mr. Balram Sharma, Deputy
 Solicitor General of India, with Mr.
 Ajeet Singh Saklani and Mr. Vivek
 Anand Singh, Advocates, assisted by

 Mr. Aman Mor, Assistant Director,
 Directorate of Enforcement, Shimla. Virender Singh, Judge. Applicant-Hitesh Gandhi has filed the present

 application, under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure (hereinafter referred to as ' CrPC '), seeking, his

 release on bail, during the pendency of trial, in case No.

 ECIR/SHSZO/04/2019, dated 22nd July, 2019, registered 1 Whether Reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. with the Enforcement Directorate office (ED), Sub Zonal

 office, Rani Villa, Bagrian House, Strawberry Hills, Chotta

 . Shimla, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. 2. According to the applicant, the necessary facts,

 giving rise to the present case, are as under: 3. The Central Bureau of Investigation, Shimla,

 of
 Railway Board Building, The Mall, Shimla (hereinafter

 referred to as 'CBI') had registered RC0962019A0002,dated
 rt
 7th May, 2019, under Sections 409 , 419 , 465 , 466 , 467 read with Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code

 (hereinafter referred to as ' IPC ') and Sections 13(1) (c) , 13

 (1) (d) read with Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of

 Corruption Act (hereinafter referred to as ' PC Act '). 4. As per the case set up by CBI, the applicant,

 who is Vice Chairman of KC Group of Institutes, Pandoga,

 Una, H.P., has wrongly claimed the scholarship of the

 students belonging to certain class, who, without

 completing the concerned course, left the institute. After

 registration of the FIR by the CBI, the case was taken up

 by the Directorate of Enforcement (hereinafter referred to

 as 'ED'), on the basis of which ECIR/SHSZO/04/2019, ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 3 dated 22nd July, 2019, was registered, under the provisions

 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 . (hereinafter referred to as 'PMLA'). 5. It is the further case of the applicant that on

 29th August, 2023, raid was conducted by ED, in the

 premises of the applicant. Thereafter, summons were

 of
 issued to the applicant, by hand, without specifying

 therein the place and date. Thereafter, the applicant was
 rt
 arrested on 29th August, 2023, from Chandigarh, at 09.20

 p.m. at Nawashaher. These facts have been highlighted to

 plead that the arrest of the applicant was in violation of the

 provisions of Section 19 (3) of the PMLA. 6. According to the applicant, in order to cover up

 the delay, the arrest of the applicant has been shown at

 Chandigarh, instead of Navashaher. It is the case of the

 applicant that the applicant, through summons, was

 directed to appear before the authorized officer forthwith

 and those summons were issued at Nawashaher, when the

 raid was completed. 7. As per the further case of the applicant, he was

 to appear in the office of the Authority at Shimla and the

 . date for the same was not specified. 8. Apart from this, it has been pleaded that the

 provisions of Section 19 (1) of PMLA have been violated,

 which mandated that the authorized officer, on the basis of

 of
 the material in his possession, is bound to record the

 reasons to believe that any person has been guilty of the
 rt
 offence, punishable under PMLA. Not only this, the

 grounds of arrest are to be informed to him, as soon as, the

 said person is arrested. The reasons to believe, according

 to the applicant, have to be recorded before the arrest of

 the accused. Highlighting the fact that as per the arrest

 order, no grounds of arrest have been supplied to the

 applicant, which is complete violation of Section 19 (a) of

 PMLA. 9. It has further been pleaded, in the application,

 that during the course of investigation, the applicant was

 associated eight times since the year 2019 and lastly, he

 was associated on 29th August, 2023. He was arrested on ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 5 29th August, 2023 at 09.20 p.m., from his house at Mohal

 Bhatti Colony, Navashaher, Punjab. . 10. The applicant has also tried his luck by moving

 bail application, under Section 439 CrPC, before the

 learned Special Judge, Shimla. However, his application

 has been dismissed, vide order, dated 16 th September,

 of
 2023. 11. According to the applicant, no offence is made
 rt
 out against him, under the provisions of PMLA. Reproducing the allegations, which have been levelled

 against the applicant, it has been prayed that the entire

 case of the ED is based upon assumptions and hypothesis. 12. The applicant has put forward the explanation

 to prima facie prove that the alleged receipt of the

 scholarship amount cannot be called as proceeds of crime. 13. Not only this, according to the applicant, the

 land, which is stated to be purchased out of the proceeds

 of crime, was purchased on 8 th September, 2017 and 8th

 December, 2017. 14. On the basis of the above facts, a prayer has

 been made to allow the bail application. 15. When put to notice, the status report/reply, on

 behalf of the Assistant Director, ED, Sub Zonal Office,

 . Shimla, has been filed, mentioning therein that the

 applicant has been arrested, as per the procedure

 prescribed under Section 19 of the PMLA. 16. According to ED, the matter revolves around a

 of
 scam, involving the allocation of scholarships to SC, ST

 and OBC students, under the Post Matric Scheme. In this
 rt
 fraudulent activity, officials from the Department of Higher

 Education, alongwith private Educational Institutions and

 Banks, were involved, which has resulted into

 misappropriation of scholarship funds of more than ₹ 200

 crore. 17. The applicant, according to the stand taken by

 ED, alongwith others, has played a major role in the scam,

 wrongfully withholding the rightful scholarship entitlement

 of the scholarships of the students, belonging to SC, ST

 and OBC students of Himachal Pradesh. According to ED,

 they have diverted the said funds into their

 pockets/accounts. 22 institutions are stated to be

 involved. In this regard, ED has relied upon the charge ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 7 sheet submitted by CBI. The investigation is stated to be

 going on to unearth the illicit money and ascertain the

 . proceeds of crime (PoC), obtained by way of this scam. 18. After recording the reason to believe in writing,

 the applicant and his co-accused were arrested by ED on

 30th August, 2023, under Section 19 of PMLA, in the said

 of
 ECIR. Thereafter, they were produced before the Special

 Designated Court (PMLA), Shimla, on 31 st August, 2023,
 rt
 and the learned Special Court, after perusal of all the

 documents, including the arrest memo, grounds of arrest,

 reasons to believe and material for formation of such belief,

 has granted five days' ED custody, with a direction, to

 produce the accused persons before the Special Court on

 4th September, 2023, on which date, they were produced

 before the Special Court and were remanded to judicial

 custody. 19. It is the further case of the ED that

 investigation is on going and is at crucial stage, which

 requires gathering of additional evidence, examination of

 voluminous records and recording of statements of several ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 8 persons associated with the applicant and other accused

 persons related to the case. . 20. The prayer, so made by the applicant, has

 further been opposed, on the ground that the offences,

 under the PMLA, are different offences, as such, constitute

 class apart and need to be dealt with different approach, in

 of
 the matter of bail. 21. According
 rt to the ED, the offence, under

 investigation, requires detailed investigation to unearth the

 material and in such circumstances, if bail is granted, it

 would defeat the case of the prosecution. The twin

 conditions, as per Section 45 of the PMLA, are also stated

 to be not satisfied, in this case. 22. Elaborating their stand, it is the case of the ED

 that CBI registered Fir No. RC0962019S0002, dated 7 th

 May, 2019, under Sections 409 , 419 , 465 , 466 and 471 IPC, against the unknown persons. As per the allegations

 of the said case, there were complicity of individuals from

 State Government Education Department, Bank Officials

 and private institutions. Misappropriation in the

 disbursement of scholarship funds, in large scale, has also ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 9 been alleged. The offences, under Sections 419 and 471 IPC, are also stated to be scheduled offences, mentioned in

 . the schedule, appended to PMLA and as such, inquiry was

 initiated. 23. The applicant is stated to be the Vice Chairman

 of KC Group of Institutions at Pandoga, Una and

 of
 Nawashehar, Punjab. According to the ED, during the

 course of investigation, it has been revealed that KC Group
 rt
 of Institutions, Pandoga and Nawashehar, in connivance

 with the officials of Directorate of Higher Education,

 Himachal Pradesh and Bank officials, have fraudulently

 availed the scholarship, under the Post Matric Scheme, for

 SC/ST/OBC of Himachal Pradesh. 24. According to the ED, the applicant has verified

 and claimed the scholarship under Post Matric Scheme, for

 the students, belonging to SC/ST/OBC, who were not

 enrolled in any course, with KC Group of Institutions

 Pandoga and who had left the institute without completing

 their studies. In order to grab more and more scholarship,

 false details of students were uploaded on scholarship

 portal, by changing the course of study in subsequent ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 10 years, by changing the caste category of students and by

 showing the students as hosteler, instead of day scholars. . Such false details were verified by the staff of KC Group of

 Institutions Pandoga and scholarship was claimed from the

 Directorate of Higher Education. 25. The applicant is alleged to have supervised the

 of
 entire work related to admission and claim of scholarship,

 under Post Matric Scheme, for SC/St/OBC students of
 rt
 Himachal Pradesh of KC Group of Institutions, Pandoga

 and Nawashehar. According to the ED, the applicant was

 joint account holder in bank accounts, alongwith his father

 Prem Pal Gandhi, in which, illegally obtained scholarship

 amount got transferred from the bank accounts of the

 students. 26. It is the further allegation of the ED that the

 applicant, so far has obtained proceeds of crime to the

 tune of ₹ 4.42 crore, through KC Group of Institutions,

 Pandoga. 27. The bail application has also been opposed, on

 the ground, that the twin conditions, as per Section 45 of

 the PMLA, have not been fulfilled, in this case, and the ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 11 applicant cannot be released on bail, unless, this Court is

 satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing

 . that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not

 likely to commit any offence, while on bail. 28. The learned Deputy Solicitor General of India,

 in this regard, has relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble

 of
 Supreme Court, in Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No.

 4634 of 2014, titled as Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and
 rt others versus Union of India and others , decided on 27th

 July, 2022; Criminal Appeal No. 1706 of 2015, titled as Gautam Kundu versus Manoj Kumar, Assistant Director ,

 decided on 16th December, 2015; Criminal Appeal No. 730

 of 2013, titled as Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy versus CBI,

 Criminal Appeal Nos. 1878-1879 of 2017, titled as Rohit

 Tandon versus Directorate of Enforcement ; and of the

 Allahabad High Court, in a case, titled as Anirudh Kamal

 Shukla versus Union of India Thru . Assistant Dir. Directorate

 of Enforcement. 29. Lastly, it has been submitted that in money

 laundering cases, jail is the rule and bail is an exception. 30. According to the further stand of ED, searches,

 under Section 17 of PMLA was conducted at 24 locations,

 . including the residential premises of the applicant. After

 completion of search, the summons, under Section 50 of

 PMLA, were served upon him, for appearing before the

 authorized officer at Zonal Office of Directorate of

 of
 Enforcement at Chandigarh, pursuant to which, the

 applicant appeared before the Directorate of Enforcement
 rt
 at Zonal Office, Chandigarh. After recording his statement

 and the reasons to believe, in writing, on the basis of

 material in possession, the applicant was arrested, under Section 19 of PMLA, on 30th August, 2023, at 09.24 a.m.

 According to ED, before his arrest, the applicant was

 informed about the grounds of his arrest, in writing. The

 applicant not only read the grounds of arrest, but, also

 signed each page of grounds of arrest in token of having

 read the same. 31. It is the further stand of the ED that the

 investigation conducted had revealed hat the applicant,

 through KC Group of Institutions at Pandoga and

 Nawashehar had obtained scholarship to the tune of ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 13 ₹ 14,92,37,220/- illegally and fraudulently, in connivance

 with the officials of Directorate of Higher Education,

 . Himachal Pradesh and the bank officials. This amount is

 stated to have been obtained by the applicant as a result of

 criminal activity of cheating and making false claims of

 students to obtain scholarship under Post Matric Scheme,

 of
 in criminal conspiracy with public servant, between the

 years 2013-14 to 2017-18. rt 32. According to the ED, after his arrest, the father

 of the applicant was informed about the arrest over call

 through mobile phone. The averment of the applicant that

 he was arrested from Nawashehar and neither the grounds

 of arrest nor the arrest order were supplied to him is

 stated to be baseless, as he was produced before the

 learned Special Court PMLA on 31st August, 2023 and the

 said Court, after careful examination of the material

 available on record, granted five days' ED custody to the

 applicant. 33. Rest of the contents of the bail application have

 been denied. 34. Mr. N.S. Chandel, learned Senior Counsel,

 assisted by Mr. Jyotirmay Bhatt, learned counsel for the

 . applicant, has argued that in the present case, there is no

 such allegation that the applicant may tamper with the

 evidence or he was not co-operating with the investigation. 35. It has also been argued by the learned Senior

 of
 Counsel for the applicant that on 30 th August, 2023, on the

 day of arrest of the applicant, no Proceeds of Crime were
 rt
 with the ED. The details about the material in possession

 of the ED, recorded reasons to believe were not

 communicated to the applicant, as such, according to Mr.

 N.S. Chandel, learned Senior Counsel, the statutory

 safeguard, provided under Section 19 of the PMLA, were

 not complied with, by the investigating agency. 36. Lastly, it has been argued on behalf of the

 applicant that the Proceeds of Crime should be of the

 relevant period. 37. In order to decide the present application, it

 would be just and appropriate for this Court to reproduce

 the provisions of Section 3 of the PMLA, as under: 38. The term 'proceeds of crime' has been defined in Section 2 (u) of PMLA, as follows: any such property or where such property is

 taken or held outside the country, then the
 property equivalent in value held within the
 country or abroad; Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is
 hereby clarified that "proceeds of crime" 39.
 rt
 It would be also be profitable to reproduce Section 2 (v) of PMLA, as under: Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is
 hereby clarified that the term "property" includes property of any kind used in the
 commission of an offence under this Act or any
 of the scheduled offences; 40. The provisions of Section 19 of PMLA are

 reproduced, as under: person and shall, as soon as may be, inform

 him of the grounds for such arrest. (2) The Director, Deputy Director, Assistant

 Director or any other officer shall, immediately
 after arrest of such person under sub-
 section (1), forward a copy of the order along
 with the material in his possession, referred to

 of
 in that sub-section, to the Adjudicating
 Authority in a sealed envelope, in the manner,
 as may be prescribed and such Adjudicating
 Authority shall keep such order and material
 rt
 for such period, as may be prescribed. (3) Every person arrested under sub- section (1) shall, within twenty-four hours, be
 taken to a 1[Special Court or] Judicial
 Magistrate or a Metropolitan Magistrate, as the
 case may be, having jurisdiction: 41. Similarly, the provisions of Section 45 of the

 PMLA, reads, as under: bailable.-(1) Notwithstanding anything
 contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 1973 (2 of 1974), no person accused of an
 offence under this Act shall be released on bail
 or on his own bond unless- (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given a
 opportunity to oppose the application for
 such release; and ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 18 (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the
 application, the court is satisfied that
 there are reasonable grounds for
 believing that he is not guilty of such

 . offence and that he is not likely to

 commit any offence while on bail: Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is
 clarified that the expression "Offences to be
 cognizable and non-bailable" shall mean and
 shall be deemed to have always meant that all
 offences under this Act shall be cognizable
 offences and non-bailable offences ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 19 notwithstanding anything to the contrary
 contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 1973 (2 of 1974), and accordingly the officers
 authorised under this Act are empowered to

 . arrest an accused without warrant, subject to

 the fulfillment of conditions under section 19 and subject to the conditions enshrined under
 this section. 42. In order to buttress his contentions, Mr. N.S.

 Chandel, learned Senior Counsel, has relied upon the

 of
 decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case, titled

 as Bachhu Yadav versus Directorate of Enforcement rt
 Government of India Represented by its Assistant

 Director (PMLA) and another, reported in AIR 2023

 Supreme Court 4384; and Pankaj Bansal versus Union

 of India , reported in 2023 (13) SCALE 312. 43. The above decisions have been relied upon to

 show that the mandatory provisions of PMLA have not

 been complied with, by the ED, in this case, and non- compliance of the provisions, vitiates the arrest. 44. While relying upon paras 32 to 35 of the

 judgment in Bachhu Yadav 's case (supra), it has been

 argued on behalf of the applicant that in this case, the

 statutory mandate of Section 19 of the PMLA, has not been

 complied with and as such, the arrest is vitiated on ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 20 account of the said fact. Paras 32 to 35 of the judgment,

 read as under: 45. In addition to this, the learned Senior Counsel

 appearing for the applicant has also relied upon para 187 ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 23 of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in Vijay

 Madanlal Choudhary versus Union of India , reported in

 . 2022 (1) SCALE 577. The relevant portion of para 187 of

 the judgment, is reproduced, as under: laundering Act, 2002 could not have been
 enacted by the Parliament by way of a
 rt Finance Act has not been examined in this
 judgment. The same is left open for being
 examined along with or after the decision of

 the Larger Bench (seven Judges) of this Court
 in the case of Rojer Mathew705. (ii) The expression "proceedings" occurring in
 Clause (na) of Section 2(1) of the 2002 Act is

 contextual and is required to be given
 expansive meaning to include inquiry
 procedure followed by the Authorities of ED,

 the Adjudicating Authority, and the Special
 Court. (iii) The expression "investigation" in Clause
 (na) of Section 2(1) of the 2002 Act does not
 limit itself to the matter of investigation

 concerning the offence under the Act and is
 interchangeable with the function of "inquiry"
 to be undertaken by the Authorities under the
 Act. (iv) The Explanation inserted to Clause (u) of Section 2(1) of the 2002 Act does not travel
 beyond the main provision predicating tracking
 and reaching upto the property derived or
 obtained directly or indirectly as a result of
 criminal activity relating to a scheduled
 offence. (v)(a) Section 3 of the 2002 Act has a wider
 reach and captures every process and activity,
 direct or indirect, in dealing with the proceeds
 of crime and is not limited to the happening of

 . the final act of integration of tainted property

 in the formal economy. The Explanation
 inserted to Section 3 by way of amendment of
 2019 does not expand the purport of Section 3 but is only clarificatory in nature. It clarifies
 the word "and" preceding the expression
 projecting or claiming as "or"; and being a
 clarificatory amendment, it would make no

 of
 difference even if it is introduced by way of Finance Act or otherwise. (b) Independent of the above, we are clearly of
 the view that the expression "and" occurring in
 rt Section 3 has to be construed as "or", to give
 full play to the said provision so as to include
 "every" process or activity indulged into by

 anyone. Projecting or claiming the property as
 untainted property would constitute an offence
 of money-laundering on its own, being an
 independent process or activity. (c) The interpretation suggested by the
 petitioners, that only upon projecting or
 claiming the property in question as untainted

 property that the offence of Section 3 would be
 complete, stands rejected. (d) The offence under Section 3 of the 2002 Act
 is dependent on illegal gain of property as a
 result of criminal activity relating to a

 scheduled offence. It is concerning the process
 or activity connected with such property,
 which constitutes the offence of money-
 laundering. The Authorities under the 2002 Act
 cannot prosecute any person on notional basis
 or on the assumption that a scheduled offence
 has been committed, unless it is so registered
 with the jurisdictional police and/or pending
 enquiry/trial including by way of criminal
 complaint before the competent forum. If the
 person is finally discharged/acquitted of the
 scheduled offence or the criminal case against
 him is quashed by the Court of competent ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 25 jurisdiction, there can be no offence of money-
 laundering against him or any one claiming
 such property being the property linked to
 stated scheduled offence through him." . 46. Now, judging the facts and circumstances of the

 present case, in the light of the above decisions, this Court

 would not proceed to discuss the stand of the applicant, in

 of
 this case. 47. As per record, the Assistant Director,
 rt
 Directorate of Enforcement, had issued summons, bearing

 No. ECIR/SHSZO/04/ 2019-521, on 29 th August, 2023,

 directing applicant-Hitesh Gandhi, to appear before him,

 forthwith. On the same day, this notice was received by

 applicant-Hitesh Gandhi. Thereafter, the statement of

 applicant-Hitesh Gandhi was recorded under Sections 50

 (2) and 50 (3) of PMLA, on 29 th August, 2023. The said

 statement was duly signed by applicant-Hitesh Gandhi. Thereafter, the grounds of arrest were served upon him on

 30th August, 2023. Applicant-Hitesh Gandhi not only put

 his signatures over it, but, he has written "read and

 understood" over it. Thereafter, he was arrested on 30 th

 August, 2023. 48. It is not the case of the applicant that he was

 forced by the ED, to put his signatures and date over the

 . arrest memo, which does not contain the actual date. 49. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, in a case, titled as Vikram Singh and others versus State of Punjab ,

 reported in AIR 2010 SC 1007, has distinguished between

 of
 the words 'arrest' and 'custody'. Although, in the said

 case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has discussed the above
 rt
 terms in relation to the provisions of Section 27 of the

 Evidence Act, however , the said decision has bearing on

 the merits of the present case, as, the applicant was

 associated in the investigation, by the ED, prior to his

 arrest, on 30th August, 2023. The relevant paras-12 and

 16 of the judgment, are reproduced, as under: 50. Similar view has also been taken by the Hon'ble

 Full Bench of Lahore High Court in case, titled as Hakam

 Khuda Yar versus Emperor, reported in AIR 1940 Lahore 129. Relevant portion of the judgment, is reproduced, as

 under: 51. In view of the above, the applicant is proved to
 rt
 be arrested on 30th August, 2023, as per the documents,

 i.e. arrest memo, which has not been disputed by the

 applicant, till date. 52. After going through the above documents, it

 cannot be said that the mandatory provisions of Section 19 of PMLA have not been complied with by the ED, in the

 present case. 53. Not only this, the Assistant Director, Directorate

 of Enforcement, has also recorded the reasons to believe,

 which were produced for approval before his senior. The

 reasons to believe contained the brief details of the

 scheduled offences, material collected during the course of

 investigation, the investigation conducted so far, under the ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 30 provisions of PMLA, the details about the proceeds of crime

 and the role of the accused persons, in the offence of

 . money laundering. The role alleged against applicant- Hitesh Gandhi has been mentioned in para 3 of the

 proceedings, on the basis of which, the reasons to believe

 have been recorded, upon which, the Deputy Director,

 of
 Directorate of Enforcement, has recorded the following

 approval: rt
 "After careful consideration of facts and
 material mentioned in the above note, it is

 found that there are sufficient reasons to
 believe that Hitesh Gandhi is guilty of
 offences punishable under PMLA. Therefore,
 the action u/s 19 of PMLA to arrest Hitesh

 Gandhi is approved." 54. If the facts and circumstances of the present

 case are seen in the light of the decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in case titled as Ram Kishor Arora versus

 Directorate of Enforcement , reported in 2023 SCC

 OnLine SC 1682, neither the violation of Article 22 (1) of

 the Constitution of India is prima facie proved, nor, the

 provisions of Section 19 of the PMLA are found to have

 been violated. The relevant paras-20 to 24 of the said

 judgment , are reproduced, as under: Sub-article (5) says that when a person is
 rt
 detained in pursuance of an order under
 a law providing for preventive detention
 the grounds on which the order is made

 have to be communicated to the person
 concerned as soon as may be and he has
 to be afforded earliest opportunity to
 represent against the order. The object of
 communicating the grounds is to enable

 the detenu to make his representation
 against the order. The words "as soon as
 may be" in the context must imply

 anxious care on the part of the authority
 concerned to perform its duty in this

 respect as early as practicable without
 avoidable delay." 21. In view of the above, the expression "as

 soon as may be" contained in Section 19 of
 PMLA is required to be construed as- "as early
 as possible without avoidable delay" or "within
 reasonably convenient" or "reasonably
 requisite" period of time. Since by way of
 safeguard a duty is cast upon the concerned
 officer to forward a copy of the order along with
 the material in his possession to the
 Adjudicating Authority immediately after the
 arrest of the person, and to take the person
 arrested to the concerned court within 24 hours
 of the arrest, in our opinion, the reasonably
 convenient or reasonably requisite time to ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 32 inform the arrestee about the grounds of his
 arrest would be twenty-four hours of the arrest. 22. In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), it

 . has been categorically held that so long as the

 person has been informed about the grounds of
 his arrest, that is sufficient compliance of
 mandate of Article 22(1) of the Constitution. It is

 also observed that the arrested person before
 being produced before the Special Court within
 twenty-four hours or for that purposes of
 remand on each occasion, the Court is free to

 of
 look into the relevant records made available
 by the Authority about the involvement of the
 arrested person in the offence of money-
 laundering. Therefore, in our opinion the person
 rt
 asserted, if he is informed or made aware
 orally about the grounds of arrest at the time of
 his arrest and is furnished a written

 communication about the grounds of arrest as
 soon as may be i.e as early as possible and
 within reasonably convenient and requisite
 time of twenty-four hours of his arrest, that
 would be sufficient compliance of not only Section 19 of PMLA but also of Article 22(1) of
 the Constitution of India. 23. As discernible from the judgment in Pankaj
 Bansal Case also noticing the inconsistent
 practice being followed by the officers arresting

 the persons under Section 19 of PMLA, directed
 to furnish the grounds of arrest in writing as a
 matter of course, "henceforth", meaning thereby

 from the date of the pronouncement of the
 judgment. The very use of the word
 "henceforth" implied that the said requirement
 of furnishing grounds of arrest in writing to the
 arrested person as soon as after his arrest was
 not the mandatory or obligatory till the date of the said judgment . The submission of the
 learned Senior Counsel Mr. Singhvi for the
 Appellant that the said judgment was required
 to be given effect retrospectively cannot be
 accepted when the judgment itself states that it
 would be necessary "henceforth" that a copy of
 such written grounds of arrest is furnished to ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 33 the arrested person as a matter of course and
 without exception. Hence non furnishing of
 grounds of arrest in writing till the date of
 pronouncement of judgment in Pankaj Bansal

 . case could neither be held to be illegal nor the

 action of the concerned officer in not furnishing
 the same in writing could be faulted with. As
 such, the action of informing the person

 arrested about the grounds of his arrest is a
 sufficient compliance of Section 19 of PMLA as
 also Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India, as
 held in Vijay Madanlal (supra). of 24. In so far as the facts of the present case are
 concerned, it is not disputed that the appellant
 was handed over the document containing
 rt
 grounds of arrest when he was arrested, and
 he also put his signature below the said
 grounds of arrest, after making an

 endorsement that "I have been informed and
 have also read the above-mentioned grounds of
 arrest." The appellant in the rejoinder filed by
 him has neither disputed the said endorsement
 nor his signature below the said endorsement. The only contention raised by the learned
 Senior Counsel, Mr. Singhvi is that he was not
 furnished a copy of the document containing

 the grounds of arrest at the time of arrest. Since
 the appellant was indisputably informed about

 the grounds of arrest and he having also put
 his signature and the endorsement on the said
 document of having been informed, we hold
 that there was due compliance of the provisions

 contained in Section 19 of PMLA and his arrest
 could neither be said to be violative of the said
 provision nor of Article 22(1) of the Constitution
 of India." 55. So far as the arguments of the learned senior

 counsel appearing for the applicant, that only the applicant

 has been arrested, in the present case, whereas, the other

 persons, against whom, the allegations have been levelled, ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 34 have not been arrested, are concerned, considering the

 stand of the ED that the investigation is still going on, no

 . benefit could be derived from the said fact, as such, the

 case law relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the

 applicant, in case titled as State of Madhya Pradesh

 versus Sheetle Sahai and others , reported in (2009) 8

 of
 Supreme Court CAses 617, in no way helps the case of

 the applicant.rt 56. In the present case, the twin conditions, as

 enumerated in Section 45 of the PMLA, cannot be said to

 be existing in favour of the applicant, as, at this stage,

 there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the

 accused (applicant) is not guilty of such offence and it

 cannot be said that in case, he is ordered to be released on

 bail, he is not likely to commit any offence. 57. Considering all these facts, the applicant is not

 able to make out a case for grant of bail, at this stage. Consequently, the bail application is dismissed. 58. Any of the observations, made hereinabove,

 shall not be taken as an expression of opinion on the

 merits of the case and the learned trial Court shall decide ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS 35 the matter uninfluenced by any of the observations made

 hereinabove. . 59. Record be returned to the quarter concerned. ( Virender Singh )
 Judge
 January 12, 2024

 of
 ( rajni )

 rt ::: Downloaded on - 12/01/2024 20:37:14 :::CIS