Heard learned counsel for the parties. The applicant has challenged the order dated 17-
01-2012 passed by learned JMFC, Shivpuri in Criminal
Case No.284/2009 whereby the application filed by the
applicant under Section 91 of Cr.P.C. and Sections 45 and 47 of the Evidence Act was dismissed. Brief facts of the case in short are that a complaint is
pending against the applicant before the trial Court for the
offence under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act
(in short 'the NI Act '). It was admitted before the trial Court
that some loan transactions took place between the
respondent Bank and the applicant and when the
impugned cheque was furnished for payment then it was
dishonoured. A notice of demand was given and thereafter
the complaint was filed. The applicant filed an application 2 M.Cr.C.No.1146/2012 that the complainant Bank took 10 blank cheques from the
applicant and 9 blank cheques were still with the Bank,
therefore, such cheques be called from the Bank.
Applicant also simply appended his signature on the
cheques and they were not filled up. Those cheques were
to be filled up by the Bank authority according to their
convenience and therefore, the applicant wanted to get
the impugned cheques to be examined by handwriting
expert. The trial Court after considering the application
dismissed the same. After considering the submissions made by learned
counsel for the parties, it appears that the applicant relies
upon the order passed by the Single Bench of this Court
in the case of " Sohanlal Singhal and another Vs. Sunil
Jain ", {2015 (1) MPLJ (Cri.) 294} in which it was laid that
handwriting expert can be examined to assess the
signature and handwriting mentioned on the cheque. The
aforesaid order has been passed mainly on the basis of
judgment passed by the Apex Court in the case of " T.
Nagappa Vs. Muralidhar ", {2008 (4) MPLJ (SC) 455}. On the other hand, learned counsel for the 3 M.Cr.C.No.1146/2012 respondent has placed his reliance upon the order passed
by the Single Bench of this Court in " Sunita Dubey Vs.
Hukum Singh Ahirwar ", {2015 (1) JLJ 65} in which it
was held that in the light of the provision of Section 20 of
the NI Act blank cheques can be issued and those shall
be considered as valid cheques. After considering the submissions made by learned
counsel for the parties and looking to the facts and
circumstances of the case, it is apparent that the applicant
has accepted that he appended his signature on the
cheques and therefore, his signature on the cheque is not
disputed. The art of examination of handwriting is not
perfect science and it depends upon comparison of two
handwriting. No handwriting expert can claim that he would
give age of ink by which the entries were filled up. Since
the cheque is not filled up in the handwriting of the
applicant then certainly it was filled up after cheque was
given to the respondent. This fact is sufficient for the
decision of criminal complaint under Section 138 of the NI
Act. If it is accepted by the parties that except of the
signature remaining portion of the cheque was filled up 4 M.Cr.C.No.1146/2012 by someone else then it is for the applicant to get
advantage of this fact. If aforesaid fact is already
established then there is no need to know about age of the
ink by which the entry of the cheques were filled up. If
the application of the applicant is allowed and cheque is
referred to the handwriting expert then no fruitful result
would be obtained. It would be simple wastage of time. In the case of T. Nagappa (supra) the matter was referred
to the handwriting expert because the accused denied the
signature on the cheque hence due to factual variance
the law laid in T. Nagappa (supra) cannot be applied
here. As discussed above that no necessity is there to
assess the age of the ink by which the cheque is filled up
and it is sufficient for the applicant to show that the cheque
was not filled up by him. Thus, it cannot be said that any
illegality or perversity was done by the trial Court while
denying the opportunity of examination of expert relating
to handwriting of the cheque. So far as calling of 9 blank cheques is concerned, it
relates to loan transaction of the applicant and present
complaint has been filed only for one cheque, therefore, 5 M.Cr.C.No.1146/2012 the entries of other cheque are not at all relevant with
the present case and therefore, the applicant cannot call
the other cheques given by him to the respondent bank.
Bank is a public institute and officers of the Bank have no
enmity with any customer so that any fraud or violation
of rules would have been done by them. The present
matter does not relate with the remaining 9 cheques
therefore, such 9 cheques are not required to be called
in the present complaint. The trial Court has rightly
dismissed the application under Section 91 of Cr.P.C. in
toto. Looking to the aforesaid factual and legal position,
the aforesaid order passed by the different Single Bench
of this Court cannot be applied in the present case. This is
not necessary at this stage to discuss about Section 20 of
the NI Act otherwise prejudice would be caused to the
Court below at the time of final hearing. On the basis of aforesaid discussions, the applicant
could not prove that the impugned order passed by the
Court below is perverse or away from the legal provisions
hence it is not a case in which the inherent power vested 6 M.Cr.C.No.1146/2012 under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. can be invoked in favour of
 the applicant. Consequently, the petition under Section 482 of
 Cr.P.C. filed by the applicant -Sharafat Khan is hereby
 dismissed at motion stage. Interim stay dated 15-05-2012 is hereby vacated.
 Copy of the order be sent to the trial Court for
 information and compliance and to proceed with the case. (N.K. Gupta)
 Judge

Anil*