These applications are filed by the applicant which is a licensed Money Exchange House in U.A.E. and carrying on exchange and remittance business for the past 28 years having several branches in United Arab Emirates (UAE). 2. The brief facts leading to the filing of above applications are as follows: 3. Pending the above said application, the applicant company has also filed C.A.No.141 of 2009 for direction against the Commissioner of Police to investigate the complaint dated 11.11.2008 stated to have been given against the second respondent and C.A.No.291 of 2009 to implead the proposed party, M/s. Assets Reconstruction Company (India) Limited, Mumbai, which is one of the secured creditors of the company under liquidation. 4. The Official Liquidator in his report dated 30.6.2009 has stated that the said M/s.SIV Industries Limited was wound up by order dated 25.8.2004 in C.P.Nos.17 of 2004 and 107 of 2001 and the Official Liquidator has taken possession of all available assets valued by ITCOT Consultancy as per directions. The sale conducted in respect of factory was confirmed in favour of one Jalal Nazaar for Rs.236 crores on 2.11.2007 and he paid Rs.10 crores being 10% of the upset price fixed by the Court and obtained extension of time for making the balance E.M.D. Ultimately, the sale came to be cancelled and the E.M.D. paid by him was forfeited. The said Jalal Nazaar filed appeals in O.S.A.Nos.381 and 382 of 2007. 4(a). In the meantime, the second respondent who was the next highest bidder offering a sum of Rs.236 crores for the properties has also filed O.S.A.No.383 of 2007 and paid 10% of E.M.D. viz., Rs.23.60 crores. Since both of them have not paid the balance amount, the Division Bench in the order dated 28.8.2008, confirmed the Single Judge order dated 23.8.2008 forfeiting the E.M.D. made by the highest bidder as well as the second respondent and remanded the matter to the Company Court again. 4(b). As far as the events stated to have happened by the first respondent about the issuance of Demand Drafts to Mr. Kochupillai Thulasi Das and another are concerned, the Official Liquidator is not aware of the same, however, according to him, the demand drafts were handed over to the Official Liquidator on 18.3.2008 and the same were encashed on 19.3.2008. It is stated that Abu Dhabi Court punished the said Kochupillai Thulasi Das and the power of attorney agent, Ray Divakar on 22.4.2008 by imposing imprisonment for three years. However, since the said two persons were not traceable, the Red Corner alert against those accused was issued through Interpol in Abu Dhabi. It is stated that the amounts realised by the Official Liquidator were already distributed among the secured creditors and workmen as per the orders of this Court from time to time. It is denied that the Official Liquidator is an unjust beneficiary. 5. In the counter affidavit filed by the second respondent, while questioning the maintainability of the application before this Court, it is stated that the second respondent has nothing to do with the preparation of the demand drafts which were issued in the name of Official Liquidator, Madras and any accommodation by the applicant company to its customers in issuing demand drafts is a business transaction, and the applicant has to work out its remedy only against those customers. It is also denied by the second respondent that it has played fraud in obtaining such demand drafts. It is stated that the second respondent has entered into a written arrangement with M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai which had agreed to have an assignment of this respondent's right in its favour for a consideration. It is, pursuant to the said arrangement, the said M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai agreed to provide an initial amount of Rs.23.60 crores, which was also provided. The demand drafts were submitted to the first respondent, Official Liquidator which were genuine and encashed. It is stated that the second respondent was not aware as to who had obtained the said demand drafts and the second respondent had not been a party to any fraud alleged to have been committed. It is stated that as per the arrangement since the party, viz., M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai did not bring any more funds, the transaction was not able to be proceeded with, resulting in the forfeiture of the amount. 5(a). It is also stated that as against the order of the Division Bench dated 28.8.2008, an SLP was filed before the Supreme Court. The application along with the prayer is stated to be not maintainable and it is stated that the Official Liquidator is a holder in due course and therefore, the recovery of money by him is bona fide. It is the case of the second respondent that it has no contractual relationship with the applicant in obtaining the demand drafts. It is not correct to state that the second respondent has not disputed any allegation made by the applicant. It is also denied that the second respondent has stated that it would settle the dispute with the applicant. It is stated that the authorised share capital of the second respondent is Rs.12 crores and the issued and paid up capital is Rs.2 crores and not Rs.5 crores, a stated by the applicant in the affidavit and the second respondent has estimated the reserves over Rs.53 crores carrying on various businesses. The second respondent company, as a subsidiary of the Frontline Group in the field of international and domestic trading of coal and coke. 6. Mr.M.S.Krishnan, learned senior counsel appearing for the applicant would submit that the entire facts would show that the second respondent has played fraud in collusion with M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai and the said fraud was not only against the applicant company, but also against this Court in producing demand drafts obtained by the said M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai in the auction sale. He would also rely upon the principles of equity to show that inasmuch as the Official Liquidator is not a person entitled for the amounts, the applicant being the owner of the demand drafts is entitled to get back the said amount. His main contention is based on section 58 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881 and also sections 70 and 72 of the Indian Contract Act,1872. He would rely upon the judgment reported in M.L.M.Ramanadan Chettiar vs. Gundu Ayyar and others [AIR 1928 Madras 1238] to substantiate his contention. According to him, the demand drafts having been obtained from the applicant are negotiable instruments which have been obtained by unlawful means for unlawful consideration and therefore, the ultimate beneficiary viz., the Official Liquidator should be directed to release the amount to the applicant, who is admittedly the owner of the instruments. His contention is that on the facts of the case, it is clear that fraud has been played on the applicant which does not require any evidence and therefore it is not necessary for the applicant to go to the appropriate jurisdictional Court and to adduce evidence, etc. 7. On the other hand, it is the contention of Mr.Prakash Gokalaney, learned counsel for the second respondent that it was only as per the arrangement between the second respondent and M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai, the second respondent participated in the auction and handed over the demand drafts obtained by the said M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai from the applicant company. Since the said M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai has not taken any steps to pay the balance amount as per the arrangement, it is not possible for the second respondent to pay the balance amount and it is, in those circumstances, the amount has been forfeited. 7(a). It is his contention that the applicant has no jurisdiction to claim any amount from the Official Liquidator inasmuch as the applicant has not participated in any of the court auction sale. It is his case that since the applicant is unable to recover the amount from its customer viz., Mr.Kochupillai Thulasi Das, Chairman and Managing Director of M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai, the present application is filed for the purpose of recovering the same, which is not maintainable. 7(b). It is his submission that section 58 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881, has no application since there was no fraud played and in any event, whether fraud has been played is a question of fact which requires adjudication of facts and the same cannot be done in this application. He would also submit that the demand drafts obtained from the applicant company are not vague ones and nobody can intermeddle the same and there is no fraud played on the Court. 7(c). He would rely upon the judgment in B.P.Gupta and others vs. Standard Enamel Works (P) Ltd. , [(1987) 62 Com. Cases 36 (Delhi), [(2001) 44 CLA (Sny) 1 (Madras)], The Director of Industries and Commerce, Chepauk, Chennai 5 vs. P.N.Kumar and others [2009( 1) CTC 393], Ravindra S.More and another vs. Sundarsan Chits (I) Ltd. , (in liquidation) [73 Com.Cases 393 (Kerala)], R.P.Verma and others vs. Aanaam Pvt., Ltd., and others [69 Com. Cases 152 (P&H)] and Bhaurao Dagdu Paralkar vs. State of Maharashtra and others [(2005) 7 SCC 605] apart from relying upon Section 188 , Cr.P.C. and contend that the Commissioner of Police, Chennai cannot be directed to investigate the incident which is stated to have taken place in a foreign country. 8. Mr.AL.Somayaji, learend senior counsel appearing for the Official Liquidator submitted that the Application No.2296 of 2008 is not maintainable for the simple reason that the amount of Rs.23.60 crores was received by the Official Liquidator by virtue of order of the Court forfeiting the said amount since the participant of the auction viz., the 2nd respondent failed to pay the balance sale consideration. When the amount was received by the Official Liquidator by way of forfeiture and it was not paid either by the second respondent or the applicant company to the Official Liquidator and it cannot be said that the Official Liquidator is an unjust beneficiary. 8(a). According to him, the Official Liquidator is not concerned with any dispute that the applicant company has got with its customers and it is for the applicant to work out its remedy against its customers. It is also his submission that it is only in furtherance of contractual relationship with its customer, the applicant company has issued demand drafts in favour of the Official Liquidator, Madras, and not for the purpose of the applicant participating in the auction and therefore, the applicant has no locus stanti to file the present application in this Court. 8(b). According to him, whether there is a fraud committed by the applicant's customer in collusion with the second respondent is a matter which cannot be decided in the absence of the said customer of the applicant. Even if there is any remedy available to the applicant towards the second respondent against whom an allegation of fraud is made, the Official Liquidator cannot be made responsible for the same. Once the demand drafts were forfeited, the transactions stood completed. The applicant company having paid the amounts under the demand drafts had no right to stop payment. 8(c). He would rely upon the judgment in Raghavendrasingh Bhadoria vs. State Bank of Indore and others [A.I.R. 1992 Madhya Pradesh 148] apart from relying on Tannan's Banking Law in support of his contention that it is not for the company Court to decide such an issue in winding up proceedings. The demand drafts which can be compared to a letter of credit should be treated as an independent transaction between the applicant and its customer and after the payment was made to the payee, there is no cause of action. He would rely upon the judgment in United Commercial Bank vs. Bank of India and others [(1981) 2 SCC 766]. He would submit that in any event, the Official Liquidator cannot be treated as an unjust beneficiary so as to direct him to return the amounts. He would rely upon Narendra Dada Agro Industries Ltd., vs. State of Maharashtra [CDJ 2006 BHC 1484]. 9. At the outset, on the facts which are enumerated above and which are not in much dispute, the question that has to be decided is whether the Official Liquidator in whose favour as per the order of this Court, forfeiture has been effected in respect of E.M.D. paid by a party can be directed to return the amounts to the applicant which had issued the demand drafts, either on the basis that there was a fraud played on the applicant by its customer or on the basis that the Official Liquidator has become an unjust beneficiary. 10. It is seen that the highest bidder Jalal Nazaar, who has given an offer of Rs.236 crores to purchase the properties of the company in liquidation and paid Rs.10 crores as E.M.D. and he has not paid the balance amount. It was in those circumstances, the petitions in Application Nos.2941 and 2942 of 2007 were disposed of by order dated 23.11.2007 cancelling the sale confirmed in favour of the said Jalal Nazaar, who has filed appeals in O.S.A.Nos.381 and 382 of 2007. The second respondent who was the second highest bidder has also filed an appeal in O.S.A.No.383 of 2007 on the ground that when the sale in favour of the highest bidder was cancelled, as the second highest bidder, his bid should have been accepted. When all the appeals were pending, the present applicant has filed M.P.No.2 of 2008 in O.S.A.No.383 of 2007 to grant leave to file the petition to implead itself as a party. By order dated 4.4.2008, while granting leave, the Division Bench of this Court has observed as follows: 11. On 17.4.2008, on the very same applications in the said appeals, by taking note of the submissions made by all the parties, the Division Bench has passed the following order: 12. By a subsequent order passed in various applications in the above said appeals dated 17.7.2008, the Bench, having noted the fact that neither the highest bidder Jalal Nazaar, nor the second respondent deposited the sale consideration of Rs.236 crores, held as follows: 13. Ultimately, when all the said appeals were taken up along with the applications filed by the applicant as intervener, having heard the parties extensively, the Division Bench in the judgment dated 28.8.2008, has drawn the questions to be decided as follows: 14. After referring to various judgments on the issue relating to the refund of E.M.D., the Division Bench having found that as per the terms of contract, the forfeiture has to be effected, ultimately held as follows: 15. However, while deciding the intervening application filed by the applicant wherein the applicant has also sought for a direction against the Official Liquidator to refund of amounts, the Division Bench has held that the same can be decided only by a competent jurisdictional Court and if necessary, the applicant can bring the above fact to the notice of the Judge deciding the company applications. The Division Bench has held as follows: It is based on the above findings of the Division Bench, the applicant has filed the above applications. 16. The fact that the demand drafts in question to a total amount of Rs.23.60 crores issued by the applicant which is stated to be a foreign company, carrying on banking operations in Dubai, UAE, as per the request of M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai which is admittedly a customer of the applicant company is admitted as it is seen in the affidavit filed on behalf of the application. The said demand drafts were issued by the applicant company on 17.3.2008 to the Chairman and Managing Director of M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai viz., Mr.Kochupillai Thulasi Das, based on the cheque stated to have been issued by the said Mr.Kochupillai Thulasi Das and Mr.Ray Divakar, also a resident of U.A.E. stated to be the power of attorney holder of the wife of Mr.Kochupillai Thulasi Das, by name, Mrs.Santhakumari Amma. It was based on the cheque issued by them, the applicant company issued the demand drafts at the instance of M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai and the demand drafts were drawn in favour of the Official Liquidator, High Court, Madras on Canara Bank, Foreign Exchange, Anna Salai, Madras with which the applicant has commercial transactions. 17. Admittedly, the said demand drafts were presented by the second respondent before the Division Bench for the payment of E.M.D. amount for the purchase of properties of the company in liquidation. It is relevant to point out that the appeals have been periodically taken by the Division Bench. In the year 2007, the Company Judge has passed an order cancelling the offer given by the highest bidder and the second respondent and the highest bidder Jalal Nazaar have been given time to deposit the E.M.D. amount of Rs.23.60 crores. In fact, in O.S.As., the Division Bench has passed the order on 1.2.2008 which is as follows: 18. Subsequently, on 28.3.2008, the second respondent, who is the appellant in O.S.A.No.383 of 2007, through its counsel has informed the Division Bench that on 18.3.2008 the second respondent has deposited with the Official Liquidator the demand drafts dated 17.3.2008 and the Division Bench has passed the following order: 19. It appears that the applicant filed the miscellaneous petitions to implead and to grant leave in the month of April, 2008 and leave was granted on 4.4.2008. In the meantime, the Official Liquidator appears to have encashed the demand drafts which were presented to him on 18.3.2008. The second respondent has produced an agreement of assignment dated 4.3.2008 entered into between the second respondent and M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai represented by its Chairman and Managing Director Mr.Kochupillai Thulasi Das. A reading of the said agreement makes it clear that the said M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai was aware of the auction held in this Court and the second respondent agreed to assign the orders that may be passed by the Madras High Court in respect of sale in favour of M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai for a consideration and the said M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai agreed to pay Rs.240 crores and on the date of agreement a sum of Rs.23.60 crores in the form of Demand Drafts obtained from the applicant Bank was handed over to the second respondent. Therefore, the contention of the second respondent is that the said demand drafts came to the hands of the second respondent only in pursuance of the agreement of assignment dated 4.3.2008 and it was, based on that, the second respondent participated in the auction and handed over the demand drafts on 17.3.2008. In such circumstances, it cannot be said as if the second respondent has played fraud on this Court in participating in the auction and depositing the demand drafts on 18.3.2008. 20. If it is the case of the applicant as it is seen in the pleadings that its customer Mr.Kochupillai Thulasi Das approached it for obtaining the demand drafts by giving a cheque, which was subsequently dishonoured, for which the said Kochupillai Thulasi Das and another were punished, the remedy of the applicant lies elsewhere and not by filing the present application against the Official Liquidator. In any event, unless and until the applicant makes out a case in the appropriate forum that its customer viz., M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai represented by Mr.Kochupillai Thulasi Das has committed fraud, there is absolutely no cause of action for the applicant to proceed even under the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881 , irrespective of the question whether such finding against the customer of the applicant itself would be a cause of action for the applicant under section 58 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881. 21. Section 58 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881, which is relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the applicant is as follows: 22. First of all, the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881 , applies to the territories of India and any instrument that has been obtained in a foreign country and in respect of the transaction that has taken place in a foreign territory, the validity of such transaction cannot be tested under section 58 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881. Even assuming that the applicant's customer M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai which is a company having business in U.A.E. and which is undoubtedly having relationship with the applicant company being its customer, has played fraud on the applicant in obtaining the demand drafts, no decision can be taken on fraud, firstly in the absence of the said M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai and secondly, for want of jurisdiction for this Court or for any other Indian court. In such circumstances, the contention that the instruments have been brought out in an unlawful manner and hence, the subsequent transferee or endorsee will be presumed to have no better title has no meaning. 23. The principle 'nemo dat quod non habet', meaning thereby no one can pass on better title than what he himself has or the principle 'Ex turpi causa non oritur actio', meaning thereby out of a turpitude no cause of action will arise, cannot be made applicable to the facts and circumstances of the present case unless and until a competent court of jurisdiction on merits viz., on appreciation of evidence, decides about the conduct of the parties since the unlawful means and unlawful consideration is of criminal character, which cannot be decided by exchange of affidavits or documents. 24. The further submission of the learned senior counsel appearing for the applicant, by placing reliance on sections 70 and 72 of the Indian Contract Act,1872, for a direction against the Official Liquidator to return the amounts of demand drafts to the applicant, also deserves to be rejected. Section 70 of the Indian Contract Act,1872, imposes an obligation on a person who is enjoying the benefits either by mistake or otherwise, and it enumerates the principle against unjust enrichment. Similarly, section 72 of the Contract Act,1872, deals with a person to whom money has been paid, or anything delivered, by mistake or under coercion imposing obligation on him to repay or return. The said provisions is also not applicable to the facts of the present case. Sections 70 and 72 of the Contract Act are as follows: 25. In a situation like this, where the amount of earnest money deposit has been forfeited in favour of the Official Liquidator, there is absolutely no question of unjust enrichment on the part of the Official Liquidator or the amount paid to the Official Liquidator by mistake. As I have stated earlier, even in respect of the contention that the second respondent has played fraud on the Court, the same is highly doubtful, especially when the second respondent is relying upon the agreement of assignment stated to have been entered into between M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai represented by its Chairman and Managing Director Mr.Kochupillai Thulasi Das and the second respondent. In any event, these are the matters which would not come within the purview of this Court while deciding the abovesaid applications. 26. Equally, it is not known as to how the concept of equity plays a role in the contractual obligation between the applicant and its customer, M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai, in issuing demand drafts. 27. There is one more aspect in this case which is relevant to be considered, viz., once the applicant which is a banking institution issued demand drafts at the instance of its customer viz., M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai, represented by its Chairman and Managing Director Mr.Kochupillai Thulasi Das, even though the said demand drafts can be termed as negotiable instruments, there is no question of issuing an order of 'stop payment' to the bank. The Division Bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court in Raghavendrasingh Bhadoria vs. State Bank of Indore and others [AIR 1992 MP 148] has held that while a demand draft is a bill of exchange drawn by a bank on another bank, it is a negotiable instrument. It was pointed out that the main distinction between a cheque and a draft is that while the cheque is an order by the drawer on his own agent viz., the bank for the payment of certain sum of money to the bearer or the order of the person in whose favour the cheque is drawn, a draft is not an order by a private individual to his own agent. In such view of the matter, the draft cannot be countermanded so easily for the reason that when once the banker issued the demand draft, there is no relationship of principal and agent between the purchaser and the bank. The Division Bench has quoted with approval the earlier decision of Bombay High Court in Tukaram Bapuji Nikam vs. Belgaum Bank Ltd. , (AIR 1976 Bombay 185) wherein it is held as follows: 28. While that is the legal position regarding the demand draft, once such amount payable under the demand draft has been paid on forfeiture as per orders of this Court, the applicant is not entitled to seek either for stopping the payment or recovering the amount from whom it was paid especially in the circumstance that the payee of the demand draft is a third party who has nothing to do with the alleged fraud. 29. While considering about the demand draft issued on the basis of letter of credit given by the banker during commercial transaction, the Supreme Court in United Commercial Bank vs. Bank of India and others [(1981) 2 SCC 766] has held that such payment cannot be restrained by way of an order of injunction. The relevant portion of the judgment of the Supreme Court is as follows: 30. The clause in tender process especially when the same is done by the Court to the effect that the party who is unable to act as per the condition and pay the amount of sale consideration should lose the E.M.D. paid, is a stipulation in the interest of the creditors of the company under liquidation. In case of default, necessarily the forfeiture clause has to follow. The forfeiture being effected based on the terms of tender conditions based on which the intending purchaser had participated in the auction process is certainly binding on the participant who has failed to fulfill the condition for payment of sale consideration. On the facts of the present case, as stated above, when it is not in dispute that as per the terms of tender, the party who fails to fulfill the condition in respect of payment of sale consideration is liable for forfeiture of E.M.D. and in pursuance of the same, as per directions of the Division Bench of this Court, forfeiture was effected, it can never be said to be an unjust enrichment by the Official Liquidator. It is an amount which the Official Liquidator is entitled to receive for the benefit of creditors of the company and at the same time. 31. In the matter of Narendra Dada Agro Industries Ltd., vs. State of Maharashtra [CDJ 2006 BHC 1484], the Bombay High Court has held that forfeiture of E.M.D. as per the clause of contract is in public interest and such forfeiture clause can never be avoided on default committed by bidder. It was held as follows: 32. In such view of the matter, it is not possible to accept the contention of the learned senior counsel for the applicant that by forfeiture, the Official Liquidator is not entitled for the amount and on satisfaction of fraud having been committed on the applicant, it is open to this Court to direct the Official Liquidator to return the demand drafts to the applicant. That apart, there are ever so many reasons to reject the contentions of the learned senior counsel for the applicant as totally untenable. 33. First of all, as stated above, it is not known as to how such application is maintainable in this Court when the transaction has taken place outside the country. Further, there is no presumption of fraud in respect of demand drafts stated to have been issued by the applicant company, especially in India, unless contrary is proved under section 118 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881. On the other hand, the rule of presumption is in favour of the negotiable instrument and it is onus on the part of a party who raises the question that it is not valid, not issued for consideration and the holder of the instrument is not presumed to be the holder in due course, to prove. Further, unless and until it is proved that the Official Liquidator was a party to the alleged fraud or misrepresentation and on the other hand, admittedly, it is not even the case of the applicant, it is not possible to hold that there has been any fraud committed at the time of issuing the instruments by the applicant and as such, the instruments or the right under the instruments are not enforceable under section 58 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881. 34. In such view of the matter, the judgment of Madras High Court in M.L.M.Ramanadan Chettiar vs. Gundu Ayyar and others [AIR 1928 Madras 1238], on which reliance was placed by the learned senior counsel for the applicant is not applicable to the facts of the case. In fact, in the said judgment , the Division Bench of this Court consisting of Phillips and Thiruvenkatachariar,JJ., have reiterated the celebrated concept of presumption under the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881 , especially with reference to section 118 and also about holder and holder in due course under sections 8 and 9 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, and held that only in cases where the instruments have been obtained by fraud by the maker of the instrument or for unlawful consideration, the presumption can be drawn, but the burden of proving that the holder is not a holder in due course lies on the person who disputes. The relevant portion of the judgment is as follows: The law reiterated by the Division Bench above is not of any help to the applicant in this case. 35. The various judgments relied on by the learned senior counsel for the applicant relating to an order obtained by suppression of material fact or judgment obtained by fraud wherein it was held time and again that such judgments and orders are to be treated as nullity which can be questioned even in a collateral proceedings (vide: S.P.Chengalvaraya Naidu (Dead) by LRS. vs. Jagannath (Dead) by LRS. and others [(1994) 1 SCC 1 and Ram Chandra Singh vs. Savitri Devi and others [(2004) 2 LW 70 (SC)]) have no application to the facts of the present case. 36. It can never be presumed as if the order of forfeiture of E.M.D. passed by the Division Bench has been obtained either by playing fraud or by suppression of material fact.	It is relevant to point out that there is absolutely nothing on record to show that any fraud has been committed on this Court by the applicant's customer viz., M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai or by the second respondent. Even if there has been any fraud or collusion as alleged by the applicant between the said M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai and the second respondent, such an issue cannot be decided by the Company Court, since such allegation of fraud or collusion is not forming part of the transaction which has happened before this Court. Further, no useful purpose would be served even by allowing the applicant to let in any evidence. In such view of the matter, it has only to be held that the applicant company which is unable to recover the amount from its customer, M/s.Power Engineering International FZCO, Jebel Ali, Dubai, which is stated to have issued a cheque for the purpose of issuing the demand drafts, has now decided to file the present application against the Official Liquidator, knowing fully well that the amount has gone to the credit of company in liquidation by way of forfeiture as per terms of tender and as per directions of the Division Bench, and such conduct can never be permitted by this Court. Such claim of the applicant can only be termed as a course abusing the process of Court. 37. By virtue of Rule 6 of the Companies (Court) Rules, 1959, enables the applicability of Civil Procedure Code and by virtue of the inherent powers conferred on the applicant as per rules 6 and 9 viz., 
"	R.6. Practice and Procedure of the Court and provisions of the C ode to apply.- Save as provided by the Act or by these Rules the practice and procedure of the Court and the provisions of the Code so far as applicable, shall apply to all proceedings under the Act and these rules. The Registrar may decline to accept any document which is presented otherwise than in accordance with these rules or the practice and procedure of the Court." 38. It is true that this Court is empowered to pass orders even by moulding the prayer, since the power under rule 9 is akin to section 151 of Civil Procedure Code. But, such power is to be restricted only to company court proceedings and not otherwise. The claim of the applicant for the refund of the amount forfeited in favour of Official Liquidator is not on the basis of participation of applicant company in the company court proceedings, and the claim is made totally based on the grounds which are extraneous to the company Court proceedings. Merely because the forfeited demand drafts were issued by the applicant company which were presented before this Court by a participant in the auction, it does not mean that the drawer bank viz., the applicant company has played any role in the company court proceedings. The inherent powers are to be used only for the purpose of rendering substantial justice, and while dealing with an issue and a matter which is not connected with the Company court proceedings, the company Court is not empowered to use the inherent powers, especially in the facts and circumstances of the case where there is absolutely no evidence of fraud having been played on the court and there is absolutely nothing to presume any fraud especially in the context of the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act,1881 . Therefore, the contention of the learned senior counsel for the applicant to mould the relief for rendering justice is not tenable. 39. The English Judgment by the Court of Appeal in Banque Belge Pour L'Etranger vs. Hambrouck and others [1919 B 2351] relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the applicant has no application to the facts of the present case. In that case, Their Lordships, Bankes, Scrutton and Atkin L.JJ. were dealing with a cheque obtained by fraud and the transfer effected without consideration. The judgment was delivered in the context of a person who drew cheque upon his account on his bank and handed it over to his kept mistress who deposited it into her account of London Joint City and Midland bank. When the possession of cheque by him itself was by fraud since it was purported to be drawn by a third party, it was held that when fraud was found out, the amount which was paid into the account of his mistress should be deemed to be an amount obtained by fraud for no consideration. I am of the view that the judgment of the English Court relied upon by the learned senior counsel has no relevance to the facts and circumstances of the present case. 40. That apart, the Application No.141 of 2009 filed by the applicant for a direction against the Commissioner of Police to investigate about the complaint dated 11.11.2008 is also not maintainable. In the affidavit filed by the applicant, it is stated that such complaint was given to the Commissioner of Police, Egmore, Chennai against the second respondent in respect of an alleged fraud stated to have been committed by the second respondent in obtaining and misusing the demand drafts issued by the applicant. In the absence of any material to show that the second respondent has played any fraud on this Court or even any fraud against the applicant, it is not possible to give any direction to the Commissioner of Police to investigate into the complaint. The applicant being a foreign bank has to follow the procedure of law for the purpose of taking criminal action if any against a citizen of India. In any event, the applicant's prayer cannot be given in this company application except directing it to work out its remedy, if any available under the law. In such view of the matter, the applications are dismissed. No costs.