% 19.11.2025 1. The present application is filed by the applicant seeking
 regular bail in FIR No. 124/2025 dated 24.05.2025 registered at
 Police Station Crime Branch for the offences under Sections
 316(2)/318(4)/336(3)/61(2) of the Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023
 ('BNS'). 2. Briefly stated, it is alleged that on 24.05.2025, acting upon
 a secret information regarding delivery of fake/synthetic bank
 account kits being used by fraudsters/scammers in sextortion,
 house-arrest frauds, debit/credit card frauds and other cyber-
 crimes a raid was conducted. Pursuant to the raid, three accused
 persons were apprehended. 3. During the course of investigation, at the instance of BAIL APPLN. 3967/2025 Page 1 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/11/2025 at 22:26:55
 accused Gaurav Barua, a raid was conducted at A-592, Gali No.
 39-8, New Ashok Nagar, Delhi, where the applicant along with
 another accused person was arrested. 4. It is alleged that one bank account kit, one laptop, and two
 mobile phones were recovered from the rented accommodation of
 the applicant. It is alleged that the applicant purchased the bank
 account kit from accused Gaurav and had been using the same for
 cyber-fraud activities. 5. It is alleged that the applicant would send friend requests to
 victims through Facebook, obtain their WhatsApp number and
 initiate video calls with them. Further, the applicant would
 allegedly play pornographic clips to the victims, record their
 reaction and then extort them by threatening to circulate such
 videos on social media. 6. It is alleged that upon inspecting the IMEI of the phone
 recovered from the applicant on 'Samanvaya Portal' of MHA,
 twelve complaints related to online fraud and circulation of
 sexually explicit material from various states were found linked to
 the said device. 7. It is alleged that co-accused Vipin Kumar disclosed that he
 opened multiple bank accounts on the instance of the applicant to
 receive and withdraw extortion money and admitted to
 transferring around 15-20 lakhs from the said accounts to the
 applicant over a period of one year. 8. It is further alleged that Whatsapp Chats were recovered
 from the applicant's phone which clearly show him engaging in
 the alleged acts of extorting victims. 9. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the
 applicant is innocent and he has been falsely implicated in the BAIL APPLN. 3967/2025 Page 2 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/11/2025 at 22:26:55
 present case. He submits that the applicant is a 21 year old student
 and has clean antecedents. 10. He submits that co-accused Ujjawal Pandey, Gaurav Barua,
 Yug Sharma, Dilshad Ali have been admitted on bail by the
 learned Trial Court and the applicant is entitled to bail on account
 of parity. 11. He submits that all material evidence, including electronic
 devices have been seized and custodial interrogation of the
 applicant is no longer required. 12. Per contra, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the
 State vehemently opposes the grant of any relief to the applicant. 13. He submits that the investigation is still ongoing and the
 applicant has cheated and extorted a large number of innocent
 persons. 14. He submits that if the applicant is admitted to bail, he may
 tamper with the digital evidence, which is essential for further
 investigation in the present case. 15. I have heard the counsel and perused the record. 16. It is well settled that the Court, while considering such
 applications, has to keep certain factors in mind, such as: (i) the
 nature or gravity of the offense; (ii) the character of the evidence
 and circumstances unique to the accused; (iii) the likelihood of the
 accused evading justice; (iv) the potential impact of the release on
 prosecution witnesses and its societal repercussions; and (v) the
 probability of the accused engaging in tampering. 17. It has been held in a catena of judgments that while
 considering an application of the accused seeking bail, the Court
 would not be justified in going into evidence on record at such
 depth so as to ascertain probability of conviction of the accused as BAIL APPLN. 3967/2025 Page 3 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/11/2025 at 22:26:55
 the same is a matter of trial. 18. The grant of bail should not be arbitrary or whimsical.
 Being conscious of the fact that individual liberty holds immense
 significance, it is incumbent upon the Courts to examine and
 evaluate, albeit briefly, factors such as the prima facie case, the
 nature and severity of the crime and the accused's likelihood to
 tamper with evidence, among other considerations as noted above. 19. In the present case, the allegations against the applicant
 prima facie are serious in nature. It is alleged that the applicant
 would send friend requests to victims through Facebook, obtain
 their WhatsApp number and initiate video calls with them.
 Further, the applicant would allegedly play pornographic clips to
 the victims, record their reaction and then extort them by
 threatening to circulate such videos on social media. 20. The learned counsel for the applicant contends that co-
 accused Ujjawal Pandey, Gaurav Barua, Yug Sharma, Dilshad Ali
 have been admitted on bail by the learned Trial Court and the
 applicant is entitled to bail on account of parity. However, the role
 of the applicant is distinct from the other accused persons who
 have been admitted on bail. There are specific allegations against
 the applicant of cyber fraud and extortion and WhatsApp chats of
 the applicant indulging in the alleged acts have also been allegedly
 recovered from his mobile phone. Thus, the applicant cannot be
 granted the benefit of parity. 21. It is pertinent to note that the present case pertains to serious
 allegations of digital frauds where complex technological
 mechanisms were employed to defraud gullible victims. Such
 cases, by their very nature, involve intricate methods and multiple
 communication devices and are used to mislead unsuspecting BAIL APPLN. 3967/2025 Page 4 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/11/2025 at 22:26:55
 victims. A perusal of the record shows that accused Vipin Kumar
 has disclosed that he opened multiple bank accounts at the instance
 of the applicant and sent around ₹15-20 lakhs to the applicant in
 the past year. Further, it is stated that only one victim has come
 out so far during the course of investigation, claiming he had been
 extorted for an amount of ₹10,000/-. Thus, the possibility of the
 presence of a large number of victims cannot be ruled out. 22. Such crimes are on the rise and the same tend to be
 significantly harder to crack due to the boon of technology that is
 effectively misused by crooks to wreak havoc and evade the law
 enforcement. The task of the Investigating Agency seems arduous
 and they need to be given a fair play in the joints to investigate the
 matter, admitting the applicant on bail may further impede their
 investigation if the applicant tampers digital evidence which has
 not yet been discovered during the course of investigation. 23. It is also important to mention that while deciding the
 question of bail, the Court must carefully balance the individual's
 right to liberty with the interests of justice. While the presumption
 of innocence and the right to liberty are fundamental principles of
 law, they must be considered in conjunction with the gravity of the
 offence and its impact on society. 24. Accordingly, taking into account the submissions made by
 the learned counsel for the parties, and material available on
 record, this Court is of considered opinion that prima facie, there
 are serious allegations against the applicant which at this stage
 cannot be said to be without any material. 25. Considering the facts and circumstances of this case, this
 Court is not inclined to grant bail to the applicant at this juncture. 26. It is made clear that the observations made in the present BAIL APPLN. 3967/2025 Page 5 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/11/2025 at 22:26:55
 case are only for the purpose of considering the bail applications
 and should not influence the outcome of the trial and also not be
 taken as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 27. In view of the above, the present bail application is
 dismissed. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 NOVEMBER 19, 2025
 "SS" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 21/11/2025 at 22:26:55