The petitioner is a lady, aged 54 years and mother of

 two children. She has been accused of offences under Sections

 376(2)(L) , 384 , 506 and 120(B) of Indian Penal Code. FIR No.

 63/2020 in this regard has been registered on 7.12.2020 at Police

 Station, Chintpurni, District Una. Instant bail petition has been

 preferred by her under Section 438 of Code of Criminal

 Procedure. 2. The FIR was registered on the basis of a written

 complaint lodged at Police Station, Chintpurni on 7.12.2020 by 1 Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the
 Judgment? the husband of the victim to the effect that on 11.11.2020 his

 wife (victim) informed him about her sexual exploitation in the

 . hands of one Narinder Kumar, resident of village Dharamshala

 Mahantan, District Una and her subsequent blackmail on that

 count by accused Narinder Kumar as well as by the petitioner. 3. The case of the prosecution as it comes out

 cumulatively from the status report and from the appended

 demanding money

 from

 record is that the victim got acquainted with Narinder Kumar on

 'Tiktok' in the year 2018. Said Narinder Kumar allegedly started

 her within a month of their

 acquaintance. The victim used to visit a gym at Kurukshetra

 (Haryana) where the petitioner was employed as a gym trainer. The victim aged around 35 years is a house wife. At time when

 she was unable to talk to accused Narinder Kumar on phone in

 confines of her home, then she used to talk to him in the above

 described gym. This was statedly observed by the petitioner, in

 whom the victim confided her problem. On petitioner's

 insistence, the victim disclosed to her the telephone number of

 accused Narinder Kumar. Further allegations are that the

 petitioner of her own called Narinder Kumar to her home in

 Kurukshetra, where the victim also met him. Against victim's

 wishes, physical relations were established with her by Narinder

 Kumar many times in October/November 2018. This was all

 facilitated by the petitioner. The 'act' was allegedly captured on ::: Downloaded on - 31/12/2020 20:18:55 :::HCHP 3 camera/video. Subsequently, the victim was blackmailed by

 Narinder Kumar as well by the petitioner. Under the threat of

 . blackmail, the victim had paid around Rupees twenty two lacs to

 accused Narinder Kumar and around Rupees ten lacs to the bail

 petitioner. Accused Narinder Kumar was arrested on 23.12.2020. 4. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner argued that

 petitioner is innocent and has been falsely implicated with the

 antecedents. r to
 offences. Petitioner is aged 54 years and belongs to respectable

 family, having children of her own and has no criminal

 Learned Senior Counsel further contended that

 offences, if any, are alleged to have been committed in the

 State of Haryana, therefore, in terms of Section 177 of Code of

 Criminal procedure, the FIR in question could not have been

 registered in State of Himachal Pradesh. He further submitted

 that pursuant to the interim protection granted by a co-ordinate

 Bench of this Court to the petitioner on 18.12.2020, she has

 repeatedly joined the investigations as and when directed by the

 investigating agency. In case of her enlargement on bail, the

 petitioner will abide by all the terms and conditions, which may

 be imposed upon her and shall continue to join and co-operate

 the investigating agency. While opposing the bail petition, learned Additional

 Advocate General argued that petitioner is accused of serious

 and heinous offences. The investigation in the case is at an ::: Downloaded on - 31/12/2020 20:18:55 :::HCHP 4 initial stage. The petitioner though has joined the investigations

 but is not co-operating with the investigating agency, therefore,

 . her custodial interrogation is warranted. 5(i) Having gone through the record made available by

 the respondent, certain aspects which are relevant for

 adjudicating this bail petition may be noticed. The victim had

 statedly narrated her tale of sexual exploitation and blackmail in

 the hands of Narinder

 Kumar and petitioner

 husband/complainant on 11.11.2020. The incidents were alleged

 to have happened in October/December, 2018. The complaint,
 to her

 however, was lodged by the husband of the victim on 7.12.2020

 i.e. almost a month later from the alleged date of narration of

 events by the victim and almost two years later from the date of

 alleged offences. 5(ii) The husband of the victim on coming to know of the

 sexual exploitation and subsequent blackmail of his wife,

 immediately on 11.11.2020 rushed to village Dharamshala

 Mahantan in district Una and allegedly executed certain

 agreements on different dates with accused Narinder Kumar for

 getting back the money and articles statedly received by him

 from the victim. The agreements do not mention about any

 video/camera clippings regarding the alleged incidents. There is

 no mention in the agreements about involvement of the bail

 petitioner. 5(iii) The victim is a mature lady, aged around 35 years. She is stated to be a mental patient. Some of her medical

 . prescription slips covering period from the year 2010 to 2016 are

 on record but what is the exact nature of her disease and

 whether she is still suffering from this disease is not discernible

 at this stage. The MLC of the victim mentions about her

 disclosing the fact that she had no sexual contact with the

 5(iv)
 r to
 accused after November 2019 and that she also had no sexual

 contact with her husband ever since then. The case of petitioner is different from that of

 accused Narinder Kumar. In the facts and circumstances of the

 case, it cannot be said at this stage that petitioner had facilitated

 victim's alleged sexual exploitation, if any, in the hands of

 accused Narinder Kumar or was guilty of this offence or that she

 had blackmailed her. There are the issues which are to be

 proved during trial by leading cogent evidence. The offence

 under Section 384 IPC carries punishment for three years,

 whereas the and offence under Section 506 IPC is bailable

 carrying punishment of two years. The petitioner has no criminal

 antecedents and is resident of Thanesher Kurukshetra (Haryana). She has reportedly joined the investigation multiple times as and

 when directed by the investigating agency. Regarding her

 alleged non-cooperation, suffice to observe that it is for the

 investigating agency to bring out the truth in accordance with ::: Downloaded on - 31/12/2020 20:18:56 :::HCHP 6 law. There is no allegation in the status report about petitioner's

 intimidating the victim or the complainant during the currency of

 . interim bail granted to her. These aspects can even otherwise be

 taken care of by imposing stringent conditions. 5(v) In respect of objection raised by learned Senior

 Counsel regarding territorial jurisdiction for registering the FIR, it

 will be apposite to take note of a recent judgment passed by

 Hon'ble Apex Court in Transfer Petition (CRL.) No. 456 of 2019,

 titled Kaushik Chatterjee versus State of Haryana & ors.,

 decided on 30.9.2020, wherein the petitioners were seeking

 transfer of three criminal cases registered against him on ground

 of incompetence of the Court on count of territorial jurisdiction. The Apex Court observed that:- There is no provision in the Criminal Procedure Code akin to Section
 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure. (ii) The second is that in civil proceedings, a plaint can be returned,
 under Order VII, Rule 10, CPC , to be presented to the proper court,
 at any stage of the proceedings. But in criminal proceedings, a

 . limited power is available to a Magistrate under section 201 of the

 Code, to return a complaint. The power is limited in the sense (a)
 that it is available before taking cognizance, as section 201 uses the
 words "Magistrate who is not competent to take cognizance" and (b)

 that the power is limited only to complaints, as the word
 "complaint", as defined by section 2(d) , does not include a "police
 report". After considering the definition clause, chapter-XIII

 and fate of irregular proceedings under Chapter XXXV of Cr.P.C .,

 it was observed in paras 33 and 38 as under:- The legal position was summed up in following
 paras- In the light of the ratio of the above judgment, it shall

 be open for the petitioner to raise this question at an appropriate

 stage before the Competent Court in accordance with law. In view of the above discussion, the instant petition is

 allowed and the interim protection granted in favour of the

 petitioner vide order dated 18.12.2020 is confirmed subject to

 following conditions: Petitioner shall not contact, threaten or intimidate the
 victim in any manner whatsoever. (iv) Petitioner will not leave India without prior
 permission of the Court. . (v) Petitioner shall not make any inducement,
 threat or promise, directly or indirectly, to the
 Investigating Officer or any person acquainted with
 the facts of the case to dissuade him/her from

 disclosing such facts to the Court or any Police
 Officer; (vi) In case of launching of prosecution, petitioner
 shall attend the trial on every hearing, unless
 exempted in accordance with law. (vii) Petitioner shall inform the Station House
 Officer of the concerned police station about her
 place of residence during bail and trial. Any change
 in the same shall also be communicated within two

 weeks thereafter. Petitioner shall furnish details of his

 Aadhar Card, Telephone Number, E-mail, PAN Card,
 Bank Account Number, if any. In case of violation of any of the terms & conditions

 of the bail, respondent-State shall be at liberty to move

 appropriate application for cancellation of the bail. It is made

 clear that observations made above are only for the purpose of

 adjudication of instant bail petition and shall not be construed as

 an opinion on the merits of the matter. Learned trial Court shall

 decide the matter without being influenced by above

 observations. With the aforesaid observations, the present petition

 stands disposed of, so also the pending miscellaneous

 applications, if any. Copy Dasti. Jyotsna Rewal Dua
 Judge. December 31, 2020,
 ( vs) ::: Downloaded on - 31/12/2020 20:18:56 :::HCHP