Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been arrested in connection with Crime
 No.7/2014 registered with STF Police Station, Bhopal for the
 offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120-B of I.P.C. and Section 3(g) 1 , 2 read with Section 4 of the
 M.P. Recognize Examination Act, 1937 - commonly known as
 Vyapam Examination Scam Cases. The role ascribed to the applicant is that he acted as
 middleman in the commission of alleged offence. He allegedly
 received the amount of Rs.18,20,000/- from one Sahil Jain,
 who was to appear in the examination, to arrange for
 impersonator. According to the applicant, however, the applicant only
 acted as conduit between Sahil Jain on the one hand and
 Shravan Sonar and Dhananjay Kumr Chouhan on the other,
 who were the main persons responsible to arrange for the
 impersonator and acted as racketeers. The applicant handed
 over sum of Rupees Seventeen lacs to the latter two persons
 and retained sum of Rs.1,20,000/- for himself. According to the prosecution, in addition to this amount,
 sum of Rupees two lacs was deposited directly in the bank
 account of the brother of Rakesh Patel. The fact remains that
the investigation as against this applicant is complete as of
now. Inasmuch as, charge-sheet has been filed against the
applicant on 10.6.2014. Learned counsel for the State, on instructions, submits
that further custodial interrogation of the applicant may not be
necessary considering the limited role of the applicant and
more so because of the arrest of Shravan Sonar and Dhananjay
Kumar Chouhan, who are racketeers and had arranged the
impersonator for appearing on behalf of Sahil Jain in the
subject examination. Moreover, the applicant through counsel undertakes to
extend full cooperation in the event further investigation is
necessitated including in respect of this applicant. The
applicant also undertakes that he would attend the Court
punctually during the trial and extend full cooperation for
speedy disposal of the trial. As the amount of Rs.1,20,000/-
retained by the applicant has already been recovered from the
applicant when he was arrested and as he has not been named
as accused in any other offence of similar type and considering
the limited role of the applicant of having acted as conduit
between Sahil Jain and the racketeers who are already arrested
and as Sahil Jain has been released on bail, in the interest of
justice, even this applicant deserves to be released on bail on
following strict conditions as the applicant is not resident of
State of Madhya Pradesh. Taking overall view, in the interest of justice, the
application is allowed and the applicant is directed to be
released on bail on following conditions to be strictly observed
by the applicant:- (Rupees Two Lac) with two solvent local
 sureties in the like amount to the satisfaction of
 the Trial Court for his regular appearance during
 the trial in connection with Crime No.07/2014
 in Police Station STF Police Station, Bhopal;
 (2) The applicant shall also comply with the
 conditions enumerated under Section 437 (3) of
 Cr.P.C. meticulously; (3) Additionally, the applicant will report to the
 nearest Police Station Kosamba, District Surat
 where he would reside once a week on every
 Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon unless
 required to attend the office of the Investigating
 Officer at Bhopal on that day; and
 (4) The applicant will deposit his passport, if
 available, with the Investigating Agency, else
 file affidavit in this Court declaring that the
 applicant does not have any passport of any
 country. This compliance will be condition
 precedent for release on bail. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.