This criminal revision petition has been filed to set aside the order dated 23.09.2016 made in Crl.M.P.No.1289 of 2011 in C.C.No.12 of 2011 on the file of the II Additional District Judge, (CBI Cases), Coimbatore. 2.The brief facts of the prosecution case are as follows: 3.It is the further case of the defacto complainant that the total loss pursuant to the OTS compromise shown as sacrifice under two heads viz., (i)actual sacrifice = 369.38 lakhs and (ii) notional sacrifice = 140.87 lakhs and accordingly, total sacrifice is Rs.510.25 lakhs which was waived by the bank, while considering OTS compromise entered between UCO bank and A4 represented by A1 dated 28.03.2009. OTS time was further extended upto 30.12.2009 by the letter of UCO bank dated 12.05.2009. A4 complied with OTS compromise and paid the entire amount of Rs.17 crores as demanded by UCO bank in its approval letter dated 28.03.2009 and redeemed the respective pro-rata collateral securities and thereby nothing remained to be paid by A4 in any account to UCO bank, Tiruppur pursuant to the agreed terms of one time settlement. Thus, it is clear even the assessment of the alleged sacrifice amount of Rs.510.25 lakhs has been done only after receipt of Rs.17 crores as per the OTS compromise. There was no compulsion of any nature for UCO bank to consider the OTS proposal forwarded by the branch and approved by the committee was not a figure or number suggested by A1 or anybody authorised by A4. It was purely the discretion of UCO bank authorities including the officials in the zonal office at Chennai who later on initiated the malafide complaint with the view to separate cognizable offences from civil recovery in order to specifically file criminal complaint particularly when there was no such discussions in any of the records related to OTS proposal which culminated in the approval order dated 28.03.2009. UCO bank cannot raise any grievance regarding subsequent loss after approving OTS compromise. The allegation against A1 and A4 is that without carrying the exports regarding the 29 export bills for which facilities were availed and formed part of the entire liabilities of A4 company and therefore all the accused are liable to be punished for the offences punishable under Section 120(B) read with 409, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of I.P.C . read with 13(2)( read with 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . 4.Aggrieved by the said charge sheet, the petitioners/A1 and A4 have filed discharge petition under Section 239 of Cr.P.C. seeking discharge from C.C.No.12 of 2011 stating that since no triable offence has been made out against the petitioners. After hearing both sides, the learned Additional District Judge passed order dated 23.09.2016, dismissing the discharge petition filed by the petitioners as the grounds for discharge petition are unacceptable, unsustainable and untenable in view of the suspicion against the petitioner and other accused regarding their involvement in the occurrence of his case and thereby holding the existence of prima facie case and grounds to frame charges for proceeding with the trial against the petitioners and three other accused. Against which, the present criminal revision petition has been filed. 5.The learned counsel for the petitioners would submit that A1 has already settled the entire liability by paying Rs.17 crores to UCO bank under one time settlement scheme and the UCO bank by freely accepting the one time settlement by receiving Rs.17 crores from A1 and A4 in full and final quit of the claim is not entitled to lodge a criminal complaint alleging that it suffered a loss of Rs.510.25 lakhs and hence, this criminal case itself is not maintainable. 6.Per contra, the learned Special Public Prosecutor would submit that though it is admitted that A1 and A4 have entered into a one time settlement with UCO Bank on 25.03.2009 and paid Rs.17 crores to UCO bank in terms of the said one time settlement, while securing the release of properties given by them as collateral security, the criminal acts of fabricating forged commercial invoices and using them as genuine one, forgery of export bills and using them as genuine, fraudulent encashment of 27 Foreign Bills, cheating UCO bank and criminal misconduct completed during the year 2006 to 2007. It is further submitted that even though one time settlement has been made by A1 and A4 towards their outstanding to UCO bank, it will not absolve the criminal liability of A1 to A5 in this criminal case, since one time settlement was made only towards civil liability by A1 and A4 and hence, the petitioners are not entitled for discharge placing reliance upon the one time settlement made between A1, A4 and UCO bank. In support of his case, the learned Special Public Prosecutor placed reliance of the decision in the case of Gian Singh V. State of Punjab reported in (2012) 10 Supreme Court Cases 303. 7.In reply, the learned counsel for the petitioners would further submit that even otherwise also the petitioners are entitled to discharge, since as on 31.03.2000, the petitioners paid Rs.17 Crores. In the properties of the petitioners, there were buildings on two survey numbers and the petitioners sold each building, but the bank took considerable time to release the document to the purchasers out of 48 original documents submitted by the petitioners to the Bank at the time of getting the loan. There was no fault on the part of petitioners, but due to inordinate delay on the part of Bank in releasing the documents and adjusting the payments interest was charged in the accounts of petitioners and the interest amount calculated to be collected from these petitioners was Rs.40 lakhs and the liability of the petitioners to pay UCO bank, rent loan was Rs.38.13 lakhs and hence, the total amount arrived to be collected from the petitioners was Rs.78.13 lakhs and for the said outstanding amount, the title deeds of five properties were with held by the bank. The accused had arranged funds from M/s.Top Light Labels, Thirupur and the entire dues were cleared on 27.03.2010. Furthermore, it is submitted that the materials available in the charge sheet does not support the presumption of a prima facie case as no forged documents have been produced by the investigation agency before the Special Court and therefore, the ingredients of Sections 467 , 468 , 471 of I.P.C. have not at all made out. There is no incriminating documents to demonstrate the existence of a fake document even before the Special Court in the entire compilation of charge sheet and no ingredients of Sections 467 , 468 and 471 of I.P.C. can ever be tested in trial and hence, the order passed by the Special Court was without application of mind and the same is liable to be rejected. 8.Heard the learned senior counsel appearing for both the petitioners and the learned Special Public Prosecutor appearing for the respondent and perused the materials available on record along with the order passed by the learned Special Judge for CBI Cases. 9.Perusal of the charge sheet filed under Section 173 of Cr.P.C. along with other material documents and dismissal order of the learned Special Judge would show that there are incriminating materials against the petitioners and other accused. It is well settled principles of law that at the time of considering the discharge petition before framing of charges, the Court ought to have seen whether there is any prima-facie case made out for framing of charge and the Special Court need not to conduct any roving enquiry regarding the oral and documentary evidence collected by the prosecution. The Special Court considering all the materials collected during the investigation found that there is prima facie case as against the petitioners and other accused to frame the charges. The validity and admissibility of the oral and documentary evidence can be done only after the trial and not at the stage of framing of charges and at the time of framing of charges, the probative value of the material on record cannot be gone into. Therefore, I am of the view that the Special Court has correctly come to the conclusion that there is prima facie case made out as against the petitioners and others to frame charges. 10.On a perusal of the entire records furnished to the petitioner and all the documents produced before the Special Court under Section 173 of Cr.P.C. and the order passed by the Special Court, this Court finds that there are incriminating materials against these petitioner to frame charges. Further, as submitted by the learned Special Public Prosecutor, the compromise entered into between the parties will not absolve the cases. 11. At this stage, it is worthwhile to refer the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in (2012) 10 Supreme Court Cases 303  Gian Singh Vs. State of Punjab and another , wherein, the Apex Court has held as follows: 12.Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, I am of the view that the Special Court has correctly come to the conclusion that there is prima facie case made out as against the petitioners and others to frame charges and at this stage, the order passed by the Special Court cannot be interfered by exercising the revisional jurisdiction under Section 397 read with 401 of I.P.C. 13.In this regard, it is worthwhile to refer the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in 2017 CRI.L.J.1433  State of Rajasthan V. Fatehkaran Mehdu , wherein, the Apex Court has dealt with the same issue and has held in paras 26 to 29 as follows: 14.In the result, this criminal Revision Case is dismissed. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is also dismissed. 01.06.2017 
Arul																						 

To 1.The Inspector of Police,
CBI, Banking Securities and
 Fraud Cell, Bangalore 2.The II Additional District Judge, (CBI Cases), Coimbatore. P.VELMURUGAN, J. Arul

Criminal Revision Case No.1260 of 2016
and C.M.P.No.11338 of 2016 01.06.2017

http://www.judis.nic.in