1. The challenge in this appeal is to the judgement and order of the

Additional Sessions Judge, 2nd Court, Malda, in Sessions Trial No. 20 of

2010. The appellant has been convicted for the offences punishable

under Section 489B and 489C of the I.P.C. He has been sentenced to

suffer rigorous imprisonment for eight years and to pay a fine of `4000/-,

in default of which he would have to undergo simple imprisonment for

four months for the offence punishable under Section 489B . For his
 conviction under Section 489C he has been sentenced to suffer four

years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of `2,000/-; in default of

payment of fine to undergo simple imprisonment for three months. 2. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 16th January, 2004

the appellant went to deposit an amount of `7,800/- in his Savings Bank

Account in the Malda District Central Co-operative Banka Ltd. He

delivered his pass-book bearing Account no. 17805, pay-in-slip and 16

notes of `500/- each. He sought to deposit the amount and asked for a

refund of `200/-. The Cashier suspected that the currency notes were

fake. He approached the Head Cashier of the bank to examine the

currency notes. The Head Cashier tested the notes in a machine and it

was detected that the currency notes were counterfeit. These counterfeit

currency notes, pass-book and the pay-in-slip were returned to the

accused who was then taken to the Branch Manager's cabin by the

Cashier and Head Cashier. In response to the Manager's question, the

accused stated that he obtained the currency notes from a relative in

Bangladesh. He was detained in the bank and the police were informed.

On arriving in the bank the police seized the fake currency notes, pass-

book and the pay-in-slip from the accused. An FIR was lodged by the

Branch Manager with the police. The seizure list, labels and fake notes

were signed by the Branch Manager, the Cashier and the Head Cashier

and also by the accused. The police took custody of the accused and the

investigation was launched on the basis of the FIR lodged by the Branch

Manager. The currency notes were sent to Central Forensic Science
 Laboratory (hereinafter referred to 'CFSL') for examination through the

Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Malda. The report obtained by the

police from the laboratory indicated that the notes were fake. On

completion of the investigation a charge-sheet was submitted against the

accused under Sections 489B and 489C of the IPC. The case was

committed to the Sessions Court, Malda, where the accused was found

guilty as charged and has been convicted and sentenced as aforesaid. 3. The prosecution has examined seven witnesses in support of its

case. PW 1 is the Branch Manager, PW 2 the Cashier and PW 3 the Head

Cashier. PWs 4, 5 and 6 are the villagers who know the accused. They

have all been declared hostile. PW 7 is the Investigating Officer. 4. In his complaint which is treated as the FIR, PW 1 has stated that

the accused handed over 16 currency notes of `500/- at the receiving

counter of the branch to the Cashier. The notes were found to be fake.

PW 1 invited the accused to his chamber where he disclosed that he had

obtained these notes from a relative who lives in Bangladesh. The

Branch Manager informed the police about the incident over the

telephone at about 12.30 p.m. The FIR has been received at 1.30 p.m.

by the police in the Main Branch of the Central Co-operative Bank Ltd for

starting the case against the accused. In his examination in chief PW 1,

the complainant has reiterated the contents of the FIR. The Branch

Manager has admitted that on learning of the incident he kept the

accused seated in the bank with the fake notes, his pass-book and pay-
 in-slip in the latter's possession. On the arrival of the police he lodged

the FIR. According to this witness, the fake notes, pass-book and pay-in-

slip were seized from the accused in his presence. He has spoken about

appending his signature on all the notes and that the Head Cashier and

Cashier had all signed on all those notes in his presence. The FIR was

written by one Sankar Ganguli, a member of staff of the bank, as dictated

by the Branch Manager. In his cross-examination he has stated that the

police arrived at the bank at about 1.30 p.m. and that he submitted the

FIR at about 2 p.m. to the police. They were present in the bank up to 3

p.m. He has further admitted that the police seized the fake currency

notes from the accused, kept them in an envelope and left the bank. He

was unable to say whether the envelope was closed nor could he give any

explanation as to why the fake currency notes were returned to the

accused while he was made to wait in the bank. 5. The Cashier has been examined as PW 2. He has stated that he

suspected that the notes deposited by the accused were fake and,

therefore, he took those notes to the Head Cashier to conduct a machine

test on those notes. It was found that the notes were fake. According to

him, he handed over the pay-in-slip and the pass-book also to the Head

Cashier. He has admitted that he was not aware as to what answer the

accused had given to PW 1 when asked about the source of the notes as

he had returned to his counter. PW 2 is also a witness to the seizure. In

his cross-examination he has deposed that after he handed over the fake
 currency notes to the Head Cashier he was not aware about what

happened thereafter. 6. PW 3 was the Head Cashier of the bank. He has not been able to

identify the accused. According to him, on examination of the notes with

the help of the machine it was confirmed that they were fake currency

notes. He has stated that the Branch Manager interrogated the accused,

but he was not aware of what he had replied because he had returned to

his seat. He is also a witness to the seizure of the fake currency notes,

the pay-in-slip and the pass-book. In his cross-examination he has

admitted that he was not aware of what happened after the fake notes

were made over to the Branch Manager and the accused was sent to the

Branch Manager's cabin. This witness has stated that the police left the

bank at around 3.30 p.m. 7. PW 7, the Investigating Officer has deposed that the fake currency

notes were seized from the possession of the accused in the bank along

with one pass-book and one pay-in-slip. The fake currency notes which

were seized from the accused were sent to the CFLS for examination on

5th February, 2004. The Report of the CFSL has been marked as Exhibit

8, and it indicates that the notes are indeed counterfeit. According to the

Investigating Officer he reached the bank at around 2.15 p.m. and was

present there till 5.05 p.m. The accused was arrested in the bank but

there was no noting as to who made over the accused to him in the bank.

He has admitted that the counterfoil of the pay-in-slip was in the pass-
 book which was seized, but there was no noting in this regard on the

record. The witness has deposed that though the case was registered on

16th January, 2004, the counterfeit notes were sent to CFSL on 5th

February, 2004. Between 16th January, 2004 and 5th February, 2004 the

notes were kept in the Malkhana. But there was no noting in this regard

either. 8. Mr. Sekhar Basu, learned Counsel appearing for the appellant, has

submitted that the prosecution has failed to explain the delay in lodging

of the FIR. He pointed out that the notes were tendered by the accused

for being deposited at about 12.30 p.m. according to PW 1. The police

arrived in the bank at 1.30 p.m. according to this witness. However, PW

7 the Investigating Officer has stated that he reached the bank at about

2.15 p.m. and that the FIR was handed over to him in the bank

thereafter. The endorsement on the FIR indicates that it was received in

the bank at 1.30 p.m. Mr. Basu, therefore, submitted that there was a

discrepancy in the time as stated by PW 1 and the Investigating Officer.

He has also submitted that the delay in lodging the FIR has not been

explained by the prosecution. PW 1 has mentioned that the fake notes

were seized by the Investigating Officer and kept in an envelope. There is

no noting on record regarding the sealing and labelling of the envelope.

Mr. Basu, therefore, submitted that there was no reason to believe that

the notes which were sent to the CFSL for analysis were the notes which

were actually seized from the accused. He also pointed out that the

Investigating Officer had sent the currency notes for analysis to the CFSL
 after 10 days of the seizure. The notes were kept in the Malkhana

without there being any record till they were sent to the CFSL. According

to Mr. Basu, the possibility of the notes being tampered with at each

stage cannot be rule out. Mr. Basu urged that there is no noting to

indicate that the accused had culpable knowledge that the notes were

counterfeit. According to the learned Counsel, the conduct of the

accused demonstrates this fact as he had made no effort to leave the

bank at any point of time after the notes were detected to be fake.

Learned Counsel urged that mens rea must be proved and there is no

evidence on record to indicate that the accused had knowledge that these

notes were fake. Mr. Basu has relied on the judgments in the case of M.

Mammutti -vs.- State of Karnataka reported in AIR 1979 SC 1705

and in the case of Umashanker -vs.- State of Chhattisgarh reported in

AIR 2001 SC 3074 to support his submission that no presumption can

be drawn that the notes found in possession of the accused were

counterfeit. Specific questions have not been put to the accused in the

examination under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. 9. On a scrutiny of the evidence it is apparent that there is no

corroboration among PWs 1, 2 and 3 as regards the information given by

the accused with respect to the source of the fake notes. PW 1 has stated

that he was informed by the accused that he had received those notes

from a relative in Bangladesh. Both PW 2 and PW 3 have stated that

they were not aware of the answer given by the accused to the query of

PW 1 regarding the source of the notes. Thus, it is only PW 1 who has
 stated that the notes were received by the accused from a relative in

Bangladesh. This allegation has been put to the accused while recording

his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. and he has stated that the

statement is false. To other questions put to him under Section 313 Cr.P.C. he has admitted that he had a savings bank account with the

District Central Co-operative Bank Limited and that he took original

notes for depositing them in the bank. He has also stated that he was

forced to sign the currency notes in the police station. 10. It has been argued by the learned Counsel for the State that there

is no cross-examination on behalf of the accused with respect to the

statement made by the PW 1 that he was informed by the accused that

he had received the fake notes from a relative in Bangladesh. Therefore,

according to the learned Advocate for the State, the accused was well-

aware of the source of these notes and also that the notes were fake.

This submission of the learned Counsel is rather tenuous and

unacceptable. Even assuming the appellant had mentioned the source of

the notes there is no evidence on record to prove that he had culpable

knowledge of the notes being fake. 11. It is not possible to accept the case of the prosecution for various

reasons. According to the witnesses for the prosecution once it was

detected that the notes were fake by running them through a machine,

the accused was requested to meet the Branch Manager. He was

returned the fake currency notes, his pass-book and the pay-in-slip. The
 accused remained in the bank till the police arrived on the scene. It is

impossible to believe this story. Had the accused knowledge of the notes

being fake when he went to deposit the same, he would continue to

remain in the bank till the police arrived there. If the accused had the

intention to pass off fake currency notes as genuine, he would have

certainly fled from the bank once it was detected that the notes were

counterfeit. Instead he continued to remain in the bank as requested by

the bank staff and the Manager. There is no evidence on record to

indicate that he was detained there forcibly. This would not be the

natural conduct of a person who had culpable knowledge of the notes

being counterfeit. 12. All the witnesses who were employees of the bank have stated that

after the notes were detected to be fake they were returned to the

accused together with his pass-book and pay-in-slip. If that was the case

then there was no reason for the accused to continue sitting in the bank

and wait to get arrested. Furthermore, the Investigating Officer has

stated that he seized the notes from the accused. PW 1 has stated that

after the seizure of the notes the police kept those notes in an envelope

and left the bank. He could not say with certainty whether the envelope

was closed. Thus, there was every opportunity for these notes to be

tampered with after they were seized and before they were sent to the

CFSL. It is surprising and unbelievable that when the bank found that

the notes were fake by running them through a machine, the Branch

Manager would hand over those fake notes to the accused. PW 1 has not
 been able to explain this conduct. Apart from this, PW 7, the

Investigating Officer, has conceded that the notes were sent for

examination to the CFSL twenty days after their seizure on 16th January,

2004. The notes were kept in the Malkhana without any record. No

evidence has been produced on record to show that the envelope

containing the notes was sealed and labelled. Therefore, there is every

possibility that the notes were tampered with when they were kept in the

Malkhana. Thus, the possibility of the notes which were sent to the CFSL

not being the notes which were sought to be deposited by the accused in

the bank cannot be ruled out. 13. Section 489B of the IPC speaks about the use of forged or

counterfeit notes or bank notes as genuine with knowledge or having

reason to believe the same to be forged or counterfeit. Similarly, 489C is

attracted when a person is in possession of forged or counterfeit currency

notes or bank notes having the knowledge or a reason to believe that they

are forged or counterfeit. No presumption can be drawn about the mens

rea of the accused as held in M. Mammutti (supra) and Umashanker

(supra). In fact, the conduct of the accused is to the contrary. Had the

accused the knowledge or any reason to believe that the currency notes

were forged or counterfeit he would not have continued sitting in the

bank till the police arrived there. 14. The statement of the Branch Manager PW 1 that the source of

those notes as stated by the accused was from a relative in Bangladesh
 has not been corroborated by any other witness. Furthermore, when the

accused was put that question in his examination under Section 313 of

the Cr.P.C. he has denied that he had mentioned so to the Branch

Manager. The emphasis placed by the learned Advocate for the State

regarding the source of these notes being found to be relative in

Bangladesh is of no consequence. The prosecution has to prove its case

beyond reasonable doubt. There is no material on record to suggest that

any steps were taken by the Investigating Agency to ascertain whether in

fact these notes were sourced from Bangladesh as alleged by the Branch

Manager. Even assuming these notes had been obtained from a relative

from Bangladesh it cannot necessarily be inferred that the accused had

the knowledge or any reason to believe that the notes were fake. No such

presumption can be drawn. 15. In our view, therefore, the prosecution has failed to prove the

charges levelled against the accused. The impugned judgment and order

of the Sessions Court is set aside. The accused is set at liberty unless

required for any case.