SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 1 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 1. CHARGESHEET
1.1 As per the charge-sheet, a secret informer came to the
police station Lajpat Nagar and informed SI Om Prakash that one
person having fake currency notes shall come to Rampul near Shani
Mandir, Lajpat Nagar, New Delhi and if raid is conducted, he can be
apprehended and fake currency notes can be recovered from him. SI
conveyed said information to the SHO who gave directions to
constitute a raiding party and proceed to the spot.
1.2 Thereupon SI prepared a raiding party comprising of
himself, SI Bengali Babu, ASI Yashpal Singh, HC Mahender Singh,
Ct. Rajesh, Ct. Madan Lal and Ct. Prem Punit. After necessary
instructions the said raiding party left the police station along with
secret informer and at about 12.30 pm they reached at the spot i.e
Rampul near Shani Mandir, Lajpat Nagar-II, Delhi. At the spot, on SI
Om Prakash's instructions, SI Bengali Babu and HC Mahender Kumar
took position towards the Gurudwara road, ASI Yashpal and Ct.
Madan Lal took positions on the road between G- II and F-II Block, SI
Om Prakash along with Ct. Prem Punit and secret informer took
position hiding themselves on the road between F-II and E-I Block
and waited for the suspect. 1.3 At about 3.00 pm one young boy was seen coming from
the side of Krishna Market on a black colour pulsar motorcycle
bearing no. DL 7SBP 1580 and on pointing out of secret informer, SI
Om Prakash gave signal to the raiding party by raising his hand on his
head and even signalled the said boy to stop. Firstly said boy tried to
flee from there but he was apprehended with the help of staff and on
his cursory search, from right side pocket of his wearing pant, one
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 2 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 bundle of Indian Currency notes of Rs.100/- were recovered and on
checking the same, it was found that there were 44 currency notes of
the same serial number 7DS589059 and there were 56 currency notes
of same serial number JBA315765. 14 loose currency notes of
Rs.100/- of similar serial number 7DS589059 and three currency notes
of Rs. 100/- of similar serial number JBA315765 were recovered from
the pocket of his shirt. Said recovered notes were seized by the
police. The case property was sealed with the seal of OP at the time of
the seizure and seal was handed over to Ct. Madan Lal.
1.4 During investigation, the name of said boy was revealed
as Harender Singh who stated that said currency notes were got
prepared by one person namely Sanjay Sharma who resides at
Shalimar Garden, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, UP and he (said boy) uses
the same in the market. Today also he had come to use the said fake
notes in the market. As accused confessed keeping of fake currency
notes, therefore, offence u/s 489C was made out against the accused.
Accordingly, FIR was got registered against said accused and
investigation was marked to SI Bengali Babu. 1.5 During investigation, the spot was inspected and site plan
was prepared at the instance of SI Om Prakash. Seizure of the
recovered fake currency notes was prepared. Accused Harender Singh
was interrogated, arrested and his disclosure statement was recorded.
Motorcycle pulsar Bajaj bearing no. DL 7SBP 1580 was also seized.
During interrogation, the accused stated that he used to take said fake
currency notes from one person namely Sanjay Sharma and he can get
him arrested. Thereafter accused Harender Singh led the police party
to H. No. C-151, second floor, flat no. S-9, Shalimar Garden,
Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, UP where co accused Sanjay Sharma was
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 3 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 apprehended. Thereafter, said accused was interrogated and his
disclosure statement was recorded wherein he confessed his guilt.
Thereafter, accused Sanjay Sharma was arrested and his personal
search was conducted. 1.6 At the instance of accused Sanjay Sharma, printed sheets of
notes in white paper in the denomination of Rs.100/- and Rs.50/- were
recovered from the lower rack of the almirah kept inside the room of
the flat and on counting, same were found to be 206 sheets in the
denomination of Rs.100/- notes (printed indian currency notes) having
different series bearing no. OUG 767244, 7DS589059 and JBA
315765. On counting printed sheets of Rs.50/- notes, it was found that
they were 21 in number having different series 6DF767639,
OHC664292 and 6DC44326 of Indian Currency. Along with said
recovery, from the same rack fake currency notes printed on Indian
currency papers of Rs.100/- were also recovered and on counting the
same were found to be 382 notes out of which 168 notes were of serial
no. JBA 215765, 115 notes were of serial no. 70S589059 and 99 notes
were of serial no. OUG767244. Said fake notes were also seized. Accused also took out from the same almirah a bundle of fake
currency notes in the denomination of Rs.100/- and on counting, the
same were found to be 275 notes printed on the white paper out of
which 142 notes were having 7DS589059 series, 22 notes were having
OUG767244 series and 111 notes were having JBA315765 series.
Said fake notes were also seized. Further, at the instance of said accused, from the room of the
flat some pieces of papers which were covered with a cloth were
recovered. Same were stated to be the cuttings of the sheets which
were used for preparing fake currency notes. Same were also seized.
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 4 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 From the table in the room, articles which were used for preparing
fake currency notes were also recovered i.e. two HP Adapters, one
scanner/printer/copier make HPPSL 1410 All in one and another same
printer of the same company, one CPU of black colour of Intex
company, one key board of black colour make Logitech with one
mouse, one LCD make Samsung make Sync master B-2030. Same
were also seized. One cartridge having written Black Print Cartridge, two
cartridges having written HP Tri Colour Cartridges, five
injections/syringes filled with coloured liquid, one monogram of
Mahatma Gandhi and one aluminum roller with rubber on the same,
were also recovered at the instance of said accused. All these articles
were also seized. One ink filled box with Kohinoor ink screen printing ink PVC
Superwhite written over the same was also got recovered by the said
accused. Same was also seized. Thereafter, the accused got recovered different ink bottles which
were used for putting colour in the fake currency notes. Same was also
seized. One wooden frame with plastic transparent sheet having the
logo of Mahatma Gandhi was also got recovered by the said accused
disclosing that same was used for the printing of currency notes.
Same was also seized. Two-three packets of white paper sheet which were used for
printing were also recovered at the instance of accused. Same were
also seized. The case property recovered at the instance of accused Sanjay
was sealed with the seal of BB at the time of seizure and seal was
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 5 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 handed over to HC Mahender Singh. Statement of the witnesses were
recorded u/s 161 CrPC. Accordingly, on the basis of investigation,
offence u/s 489A , B, C, D or E/34 IPC were made out against the said
accused. 1.7 During investigation, the hard disk of the CPU, and the fake
currency notes were sent to FSL, Rohini for examination. During investigation, both accused disclosed names of their
accomplices as Abad and Chaudhary but none of them could be traced
during the police custody of the accused. Since their addresses were
incomplete therefore no further proceedings could be conducted
against such persons disclosed by accused. 1.8 Accordingly, chargesheet was filed against the accused
Harender Singh u/s 489C / 34 IPC and u/s 489A /B/C/D and E IPC r/w section 34 IPC against accused Sanjay Sharma.
1.9 Subsequently, one FSL report was filed in the court on
04.02.2013 and the second FSL report was filed on 25.02.2013. 2. CHARGE
2.1 On the basis of the charge-sheet, charge u/s 489C IPC
was framed against accused Harender Singh whereas charge u/s
489A / 489C /D and E was framed against accused Sanjay Sharma.
Both accused pleaded not guilty to the said charges and claimed trial.
Accordingly, prosecution was directed to lead evidence in support of
the charge-sheet. 3. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE
3.1 In support of its case, prosecution has examined 14
witnesses. documents/objects in support of its case:- fake currency notes recovered from accused
 Sanjay Sharma
Ex.P-5 (colly) Paper shreds and torn printed papers
 recovered from accused Sanjay Sharma
Ex.P-6 (colly) Paper sheets recovered from accused Sanjay
 Sharma
Ex.P-7 (colly) Six bottles recovered from accused Sanjay
 Sharma

 SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 9 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 Ex.P-8 Ink container recovered from accused Sanjay
 Sharma
Ex.P-9 (colly) One cartridge HP Black, two HP tricolour
 cartridges, five syringes, one butter paper
 with sketch of Mahatma Gandhi and
 aluminum ink spreading plate recovered
 from accused Sanjay Sharma
Ex.P-10 Wooden Dye recovered from accused Sanjay
 Sharma
Ex.P-11 (colly) Adapters recovered from accused Sanjay
 Sharma
Ex.P-12 (colly) CPU with thermocol recovered from accused
 Sanjay Sharma
Ex.P-13 Keyboard recovered from accused Sanjay
 Sharma
Ex.P-14 LCD recovered from accused Sanjay Sharma
Ex.P-15 and Ex.P- Printers recovered from accused Sanjay
16 Sharma
Ex.P-17 Motorcycle bearing no. DL7SBP1580 seized
 from accused Harender
Ex.PW4/A FIR
Ex.PW4/B Endorsement on rukka
Ex.PW5/A Rukka
Ex.PW5/B1 DD No.18A dated 17.09.2012 regarding
 receiving of secret information and departure
 of the raiding party thereupon
Ex.PW6/A & Road Certificate and acknowledgment
Ex.PW6/B regarding deposition of case properties at
 FSL, Rohini
Ex.PW8/A Road Certificate regarding deposition of four
 sealed pullandas to FSL, Rohini
Ex.PW8/B Acknowledgement regarding deposition of
 above mentioned sealed pullandas
Ex.PW9/A Superdaginama of the motorcycle bearing
 registration no. DL-7SBP-1580
Ex.PW9/B and Photographs of above mentioned motorcycle
Ex.PW9/C
Ex.PW10/A FSL report regarding forensic examination of
 250 GB capacity hard disk drive
Ex.PW10/P1 Hard Disk Drive

 SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 10 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 Ex.PW11/A Report FSL No.2012/D-7746 dt. 31.01.2013
 of PW11 regarding 1010 currency notes and
 sheets
Ex.PW12/A Site plan of place of recovery of fake
 currency notes
Ex.P-18 Hard Disk 4. EXAMINATION OF ACCUSED U/S 313 CrPC 4.1 After conclusion of prosecution evidence, accused
 Harender Singh and Sanjay Sharma were questioned u/s 313 CrPC
 regarding incriminating circumstances appearing against them. They
 stated that they are innocent and have been falsely implicated in the
 present case. 4.2 Accused Harender Singh stated that he did not give any
 disclosure statement to the police. Accused stated that rather accused
 Sanjay himself came when he was called after his (Harender) arrest
 and Sanjay had come for getting him released from the police.
 Accused admitted that Ms. Rishu Chhabra i.e. his wife was the
 registered owner of the motorcycle bearing no. DL7SBP1580 make
 Bajaj Pulsar and he used to ply the said motorcycle and her wife got
 the motorcycle released on superdari. Accused stated that he was
 apprehended by the police on Sunday but not on the alleged date
 which is stated to be Monday. He was not on the motorcycle and it
 was parked in the parking. He was purchasing clothes for his son
 from a shop in Lajpat Nagar. He was having Rs.25,000/- all in the
 currency notes of Rs.500/- each. He was running RTVs for schools. While he was leaving he had a quarrel with a boy near police
 barricades in Lajpat Nagar. Policemen present near the barricades
 apprehended him and said boy. His mother in law namely Asha Rani
 was also accompanying him. He was made to sit in the police station
 SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 11 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 Lajpat Nagar till night. His phone, money and all belongings were
taken by the policemen from him. His mother in law called co
accused Sanjay Sharma and informed him that he had some quarrel.
The policemen stated to Harender that he shall be in custody for long.
Even Sanjay Sharma came in the police station. Sanjay was
apprehended by the police but not in his presence. Accused was beaten
by the police officers and he was taken to his home in the night hours.
It was the function of the naming ceremony of his son the next day as
he was about 12-13 days old. The policemen asked for money from
his wife in lieu of releasing him and she handed over Rs. 1 lakh in
cash and one gold kadha to them. Co accused Sanjay Sharma was
taken to his house in his presence. From the house of Sanjay Sharma,
the police officers picked the computer being used by his daughter and
the printer. Then they were brought to the police station. They were
kept separately in the police station. The police officers obtained their
signatures on certain documents under duress. They were produced in
the court 3-4 days later on. 4.3 Accused Sanjay Sharma stated that only a computer and
printer was recovered from him. He admitted that PW9 Ms. Rishu
Chhabra was the registered owner of motorcycle bearing registration
no. DL7SBP 1580 make Bajaj Pulsar and her husband i.e. his co
accused Harender used to ply the said motorcycle. Accused stated that
he received phone call from mother in law of co-accused Harender
Singh namely Asha Rani from the police station Lajpat Nagar who
told him that he had some quarrel and he shall go and see what had
happened. Accordingly, he reached there and police officer asked him
whether he was the uncle of accused. SI Bengali Babu met him in the
police station with other police official namely SI Om Prakash. Both
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 12 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 of them consumed alcohol in the police station and said that he
appeared to be rich and they shall visit his house. They came to his
house with him but the residents of the building opposed stating that
he was a man of good character. They were asking why he was
brought by them but they could not answer. SI Om Prakash used foul
language against his wife and asked accused to send her to him.
Accused held the collar of SI Om Prakash but he was accompanied by
police officials and they caused beatings to him. During the said
period, his wife along with the husband of her sister went to the ACP,
Sarita Vihar to complain against the police officer i.e. SI Om Prakash.
Then he threatened accused that he will implicate him in such serious
offences that he will not be able to come out of jail. 5. DEFENCE EVIDENCE
5.1 No defence evidence was led by any accused. 6. ARGUMENTS
6.1 Thereafter, arguments of both parties were heard. Ld.
Addl. PP for State has submitted that case of prosecution is strongly
corroborated by the amount and the nature of recoveries effected from
the accused persons. He has argued that large number of currency
notes with same serial numbers were recovered from the accused
Harender. Later on, more currency notes of same serial number with
the original currency note of said serial number were recovered from
accused Sanjay Sharma on the disclosure of accused Harender. Even
other counterfeit currency notes of same serial numbers and the
corresponding two original currency notes of said serial number were
also recovered at the instance of accused Sanjay Sharma. Most
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 13 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 importantly, the whole paraphernalia for printing/copying the
counterfeit notes was recovered from the house of accused Sanjay
Sharma which included two copier/printers, large amount of ink and
syringes and even butter paper with the sketch of Mahatma Gandhi for
embossing the same on the fake currency notes. Ld. Addl. PP has
submitted that even the sheets of paper with printed notes and further
the waste cuttings/scrap paper produced from the process of printing
such notes were recovered from the house of accused Sanjay. Even
rims of plain sheets were recovered which were being used by the
accused for printing fake currency notes. Ld. Addl. PP has submitted
that from such large recovery no other conclusion can be drawn except
that accused Sanjay was into the illegal business of printing fake
currency notes. As the police traced Sanjay Sharma through accused
Harender and even Harender was having considerable amount of
currency notes of same serial number with him, it shows that even he
was neck deep into such business of printing and using such currency
notes. Accordingly, Ld. Addl. PP has argued that both the accused are
liable to be convicted for the offences charged against them.
6.2 On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for accused has submitted
that there is no public witness to support the case of prosecution
either regarding the raid or the recovery from accused Harender or
even regarding recovery from accused Sanjay Sharma. Further, there
are various discrepancies in the testimonies of the police witnesses
regarding secret information, timings related to the raid, time taken to
travel to the house of Sanjay Sharma, mode of travel, the number of
passengers and even the presence of other persons at the time of
recovery from the house of accused Sanjay. Accordingly, the alleged
raid as well as the recoveries are seriously doubtful. Further, nothing
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 14 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 incriminating was found in the FSL examination of the hard disk of
the CPU allegedly recovered from accused Sanjay. Therefore, both the
accused are entitled to be acquitted. 7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
7.1 The relevant legal provisions applicable in the present
case are reproduced herewith: Section 489D IPC provides "Whoever makes, or
performs, any part of the process of making, or buys or sells or
disposes of, or has in his possession, any machinery, instrument or
material for the purpose of being used, or knowing or having reason
to believe that it is intended to be used, for forging or counterfeiting
any currency-note or bank-note, shall be punished with imprisonment
for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine." SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 15 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 Section 489E IPC provides "Whoever makes, or causes
to be made, or uses for any purpose whatsoever, or delivers to any
person, any document purporting to be, or in any way resembling, or
so nearly resembling as to be calculated to deceive, any currency-note
or bank-note shall be punished with fine which may extend to one
hundred rupees. 1. If any person, whose name appears on a document the making of
which is an offence under sub-section (1), refuses, without lawful
excuse, to disclose to a police-officer on being so required the name
and address of the person by whom it was printed or otherwise made,
he shall be punished with fine which may extend to two hundred
rupees. 2. Where the name of any person appears on any document in respect
of which any person is charged with an offence under sub-section (1)
or on any other document used or distributed in connection with that
document it may, until the contrary is proved, be presumed that that
person caused the document to be made." 7.2 Thus, from the facts of the case, arguments of the parties and
relevant provisions of law, the following points for determination
arise:- SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 16 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 8. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE AND
 APPLICATION OF LAW

8.1 The first argument of Ld. Defence Counsel is regarding
the absence of public witnesses. As per Ld. Defence Counsel, the case
of prosecution cannot be believed since it is not supported by any
public witness. I have considered his argument. Though there is no independent public witness to support
the case of prosecution regarding arrest of accused and the recovery of
alleged fake currency and other material but such arrest/recovery
cannot be disbelieved on the mere fact that only police witnesses have
deposed regarding the same. It has been held by Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India in Pramod Kumar Vs. State (GNCT) of Delhi (AIR
2013 SC 3344) that "the witnesses from the Department of Police
cannot per se be said to be untruthful or unreliable. It would depend
upon the veracity, credibility and unimpeachability of their testimony.
There is no absolute command of law that the police officers cannot
be cited as witnesses and their testimony should always be treated
with suspicion. Ordinarily, the public at large show their
disinclination to come forward to become witnesses. If the testimony
of the police officer is found to be reliable and trustworthy, the Court
can definitely act upon the same. If, in the course of scrutinizing the
evidence, the court finds the evidence of the police officers as
unreliable and untrustworthy, the Court may disbelieve him but it
should not do so solely on the presumption that a witness from the
department of police should be viewed with distrust. This is also
based on the principle that quality of the evidence weighs over the
quantity of evidence". SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 17 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 Therefore, Court has to see whether public witnesses
were available at the given time and place and whether due efforts
were made by the police to join the same. Secondly, in case the public
witnesses are not available, whether the testimonies of police
witnesses are duly supported by the circumstantial facts, documentary
evidence and whether the testimonies of all police witnesses are in
sync with each other. Proceeding further, PW5 SI Om Prakash has deposed that
when the raiding party reached near Shani Mandir, he requested few
passers by to join the raid but all of them expressed their difficulty and
refused to join. He also deposed that when the accused Harender was
apprehended he requested two passers by to join the proceedings but
nobody agreed. Therefore, he has deposed that he made efforts to join
the public witnesses twice during the raid. However, PW2 HC
Mahender has deposed only about the first effort mentioned by PW5
to join the public witnesses. He did not mention anything about the
second effort to join the public witness when accused Harender was
apprehended. Even PW7 Ct.Prem Punit has only deposed about the
efforts of PW5 to join public witnesses when the raiding party reached
the spot. He has not deposed about any efforts to join any public
witness after the apprehension of accused Harender. Rather PW7 has
deposed in his cross examination that at the time of recovery and
seizure of currency notes, public persons had gathered on the spot. He
deposed that IO requested those public persons to join investigation
but nobody joined. Further PW3 Ct. Rajesh Kumar did not state about
any efforts whatsoever by PW5 to join the public witnesses, either at
the time of reaching the spot or immediately after apprehension of
accused Harender. PW12 Retired SI Bengali Babu has deposed in his
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 18 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 examination in chief that PW5 SI Om Prakash made such efforts to
join public witnesses on reaching the spot and thereafter on
apprehension of accused Harender. However, in his cross examination,
he has deposed that he i.e. PW12 (as opposed to PW5) had asked few
public persons to join the raiding team but none agreed. Let us proceed further to examine the efforts for joining
of public witnesses during recovery proceedings at the house of
accused Sanjay Sharma. PW2 HC Mahender Singh has not deposed
about such efforts. Even PW5 has not deposed in his examination in
chief about any efforts to join any public witness during the
proceedings. During his cross examination, he stated that IO tried to
join independent public witness but only minor children were
available near the spot. Further, even PW12 has not deposed about
any efforts to join public witnesses regarding proceedings at the house
of accused Sanjay. Thus, from the overall circumstances, it is doubtful
whether genuine efforts were made to join the public witnesses in the
police proceedings. 8.2 Let us proceed further to examine whether the testimonies
of police witnesses are otherwise credible or not:- Further, PW2 HC Mahender Singh has deposed that the
raiding party went from police station to Shani Mandir and secret
informer was also with them. Even, PW7 Ct. Prem Punit has deposed
in his cross examination that secret informer left with the raiding party
from the police station. He even confirmed in his cross examination
that as per his knowledge the secret informer never earlier visited PS
Lajpat Nagar. However, PW3 Ct. Rakesh Kumar has deposed that
secret informer was not part of the raiding party when they left the
police station as he was present at the Shani Mandir Lajpat Nagar. Thus, the facts stated by PWs regarding secret
information and the informer are not consistent.
8.2(b) The time/manner of arrival of the raiding
party/accused at the spot. PW2 HC Mahender has deposed in his cross examination
that they (raiding party) went to the spot by foot. Even PW7 has
deposed that they left the PS on foot. However, PW3 Ct. Rajesh
Kumar has deposed that he reached the spot on his motorcycle and the
remaining members of police team went there on their individual
vehicles and also by foot. Presenting a different picture, PW5 SI Om
Prakash has deposed that they left the PS at around 12.15 pm in a
private car. Thus, there is apparent discrepancy in the testimonies of
raiding party members regarding the conveyance used by them to
reach the spot. Further, PW2 HC Mahender Singh deposed in his cross
examination that they reached at the spot at 12.30 pm. PW12 has
deposed in his chief that they reached the spot around 1.00/1.30 pm.
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 20 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 On the other hand, PW7 Ct. Prem Punit has deposed that they reached
at the raiding spot at about 3.00 pm. Though the difference between
timeline stated by PW2 and PW12 can be reconciled but the timeline
stated by PW7 is way off even from the facts of chargesheet. Further, PW2 has deposed that accused Harender reached
at the spot about two and a half hours after they reached the spot.
Even PW3 has deposed that the raiding party took position around
12.30 pm and the accused arrived around 3.00 pm (i.e. after two and a
half hours). However, PW7 Ct. Prem Punit has deposed that when
they reached at the spot and took positions, the accused Harender
came after about 5-10 minutes on his motorcycle. Thus, testimony of
PW7 is going on a different line altogether. Further, PW2 HC Mahender Singh has deposed that at
that time (raid) all of them were in uniform. However, PW5 SI Om
Prakash has deposed that on the date of raid he was in civil clothes.
This discrepancy further dents the credibility of the prosecution
witnesses. 8.2(c) Time to travel, number of persons travelling and the
 mode to travel to the house of accused Sanjay
 PW2 HC Mahender Singh has deposed that they went to
Shalimar Garden by private Tata Qualis. However, PW12 SI Bengali
Babu has deposed that they went to Shalimar Garden, Shahibad, UP in
the vehicle (innova) arranged by SI Om Prakash. On the other hand,
PW5 has deposed that they went there in two private cars but he failed
to tell the model or registration number of said car. Thus, there is
apparent discrepancy not only about the vehicle used to reach Sanjay
Sharma's house but even the number of vehicles used. SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 21 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 Further, PW2 HC Mahender Singh has deposed that they
were eight persons including the driver in the Qualis. Even PW5 has
deposed that all members of raiding party accompanied the IO to the
house of accused Sanjay, besides the accused Harender. However,
PW12 Retired SI Bengali Babu has deposed that there were only four
police officials alongwith accused Harender and the driver inside the
vehicle. Even PW7 Ct. Prem Punit has deposed that he along with Ct.
Rajesh and ASI Yashpal came to the police station whereas other
members of the raiding party and the IO went along with accused
Harender to trace accused Sanjay. Thus, testimonies of prosecution
witnesses are inconsistent regading the members of second raiding
party. In regard to the travel time, PW2 HC Mahender Singh
has deposed that it took them about one hour to travel from Lajpat
Nagar to Shalimar Garden. PW5 SI Om Prakash has deposed that it
took them about one and a half to two hours to reach there. However,
PW12 Retired SI Bengali Babu has deposed that it took them 30 to 45
minutes to reach Shalimar Garden. This discrepancy further adds to
the woes of prosecution. 8.2(d) Presence of other persons at the house of accused
 Sanjay
 During his cross examination, PW2 HC Mahender Singh
has deposed that when they reached at the house of accused Sanjay, no
one else except Sanjay was present in his flat. On the contrary, PW12
Retired SI Bengali Babu has deposed in his cross examination that
accused Sanjay Sharma and his wife met them in the said flat. He even
deposed that she signed the arrest memo. It has come in evidence that
proceedings at the house of Sanjay took number of hours. Thus, in the
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 22 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 given circumstances, said discrepancy is way too material to be
ignored. 8.2(e) The movement of case property from the spot of
apprehension of accused Harender
 PW2 HC Mahender Singh has deposed that while
proceeding from Lajpat Nagar to Shalimar Garden the case property
recovered from accused Harender was handed over to Ct. Rajesh.
However, PW3 Ct. Rajesh has not deposed about depositing the case
property i.e. the sealed currency notes in the malkhana. PW3 Ct.
Rajesh has only deposed that SI Bengali Babu seized the motorcycle
of accused Harender and he took the motorcycle to police station and
deposited the same with malkhana. On the other hand, PW7 Ct. Prem
Punit has deposed IO had handed over the sealed parcels of recovered
notes and the motorcycle to ASI Yashpal and that it was ASI Yashpal
who deposited the sealed parcels of the case property and motorcycle
in the malkhana. Thus, it is ambiguous as to which police official
dealt with the case property recovered from accused Harender.
8.3 In view of aforesaid observations, number of
discrepancies have appeared in the testimonies of the raiding party
members. In the absence of any public witness, Court is hesitant to
believe such prosecution witnesses even if large number of fake
currency/printing machinery was allegedly recovered from the
accused persons. 8.4 Ld. Counsel has also argued that in the FSL examination
of the hard drive of the CPU allegedly seized from accused Sanjay
Sharma, nothing was found regarding currency notes. Rather, PW10
Dr. Narayan P. Waghmare has admitted in his examination that it is
safe to presume that counterfeit notes have not been printed from this
SC No. 1943/2016 State v. Harender Singh & Anr. Pages 23 of 24 FIR No. 221/2012 hard disk. I have considered his argument. Considering the other
defects in the case of prosecution, said fact further creates another
hole in the case of prosecution. 9. CONCLUSION
9.1 Thus, in view of the above said discussion, none of the
points for determination can be decided in favour of prosecution.
Accordingly, benefit of doubt has to be given to both the accused.
Hence, both accused Harender Singh and Sanjay Sharma are acquitted
of all the offences charged against them. Digitally signed
 by SACHIN
 SACHIN SANGWAN
(Announced in the Open Court on SANGWAN Date: 2024.05.10
10th May, 2024) 16:34:54 +0530

 (Sachin Sangwan)
 Additional Sessions Judge (FTC-01):