1. Case of the prosecution is that on 11.05.2017
 at 11:05 PM, the complainant Pawan was present in front
 of T. B. Hospital, Main Road, Karawal Nagar, Delhi. At
 that time, accused Ashish @ Golu and Gaurav, who were
 already known to the complainant, being resident of the
 Mukhiya Market, were quarreling with another boy and
 were beating him. When the complainant intervened,
 accused Gaurav, who was having danda in his hand and Digitally signed PUNEET
 by PUNEET
 PAHWA accused Ashish @ Golu, who was having iron rod (saria)
PAHWA Date: 2. On the statement of the complainant Pawan,
 present FIR was got registered u/s. 308 / 34 of IPC. During
 investigation, site plan (without scale) was prepared at the
 instance of the complainant, both the accused persons
 namely Ashish @ Golu and Gaurav Parihar were arrested,
 weapon of offence i.e. danda was got recovered at the
 instance of the accused Gaurav Parihar and after
 completing the investigation, chargesheet u/s. 308 / 34 of
 IPC was filed against the accused Ashish @ Golu and
 Gaurav Parihar. 3. On dated 23.7.2019, charges under sections
 308 / 34 of IPC were framed against both the accused. 4. Prosecution examined as many as 9 witnesses
 to prove the charges against both the accused. PUBLIC/EYE WITNESS 5. It is pertinent to mention at the outset that the
 prosecution could not examine injured Pawan as a witness,
 as he had expired before he could be examined as a
 witness, due to the reasons not connected with the present Digitally signed PUNEET
 by PUNEET
 PAHWA case. Sh. Anuj Kumar has been examined as PW-4, who
PAHWA Date: 6. He has also deposed that on 12.05.17, he
 alongwith brother-in-law (Jija) of Pawan had gone to PS
 Karawal Nagar, where police official had made enquiry
 from him and recorded his statement with regard to the
 incident. PW-4 also correctly identified both the accused
 persons in the court. However, he did not support the case
 of the prosecution in fullest, therefore, he was cross-
 examined by Ld. Addl. PP for the State. He was also cross-
 examined by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons at
 length. FORMAL/DOCTOR WITNESS 7. ASI Rambir Singh has been examined as PW-
 1 and deposed that on 12.05.2017 at about 8:35 PM, ASI
 Radhey Shyam had produced rukka before him for

PUNEET by Digitally signed PUNEET registration of the FIR and on the basis of said rukka, he
 PAHWA
PAHWA Date: PUNEET PAHWA
 Thereafter, the said patient was given emergency treatment
PAHWA Date: The patient was brought with alleged history of physical
 assault by 3-4 persons about 30 minutes back at Karawal
 Nagar near T.B. Hospital, as told by the patient himself.
 On local examination, various external injuries were seen
 i.e. contused avulsed lacerated wound was present on left
 parietal occipital region of scalp which measured 7 x 0.5
 cm approximately, contused lacerated wound on right
 forehead which measured 3 x 0.5 cm approximately,
 contused lacerated wound on left parietal region of scalp
 measured 2x 0.5 cm approximately and on high parietal
 region measuring 3 x 0.5 cm approximately. 11. She has also deposed that on systemic

PUNEET by Digitally signed PUNEET examination (CNS), the patient had GCS score 15/15 (i.e.
 PAHWA
PAHWA 16:19:22
 Date: 2024.10.16
 +0530 normal). Slurring of speech was present. Gait was

 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . unsteady. Muscle in co-ordination was present. Bilateral
 pupils were mid constructed and reactive. On breath
 alcohol analyzer test, the breath alcohol consternation was
 159.8 miligram percent with counter number 6684. The
 CVS, respiratory, abdominal examination was normal.
 After giving primary treatment to the patient, she referred
 him to surgery SR for further evaluation, management and
 opinion. She had also given opinion that the above injuries
 were fresh and were caused by blunt weapon. The patient
 was under influence of alcohol. She was not cross-
 examined by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons,
 despite opportunity. 12. Sh. Kiran Pal Singh (Retired ASI) has been
 examined as PW-9. He deposed that on 15.9.2017, as per
 the directions of the SHO, further investigation of the
 present case was assigned to him and after going through
 the case file, he had filed the chargesheet before the
 concerned court. He was not cross-examined by the Ld.
 Counsel for the accused persons, despite opportunity. INVESTIGATION WITNESSES 13. Ct. Ashok has been examined as PW-6. He
 has deposed that on 17.07.2017, he was present alongwith
 ASI Radhey Shyam in Mukhiya Market, Karawal Nagar,
 Delhi. During that period, when they reached near Bank of
 Baroda, one boy was found present and after interrogation
 by the IO, accused Gaurav Parihar was arrested, vide arrest
 Digitally signed memo Ex.PW6/A in his presence. His personal search was
PUNEET by PUNEET
 PAHWA
PAHWA Date: 2024.10.16
 16:19:32 +0530 conducted, vide personal search memo Ex.PW6/B. He

 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . identified his signature at points B respectively on the
 same. PW-6 also identified his signature at point B on the
 seizure memo of danda, which was got recovered by
 accused Gaurav Parihar from his house, vide seizure memo
 Ex.PW6/C. He also identified the case property i.e. bans
 danda as Ex. P-1. He was cross-examined by the Ld.
 Counsel for the accused persons. 14. Ct. Sangram has been examined as PW-2. He
 has deposed that on 13.05.17, he had joined investigation
 of the present case with IO ASI Radhey Shyam and on that
 day, he alongwith IO and accused Ashish @ Golu had
 gone to the spot i.e. Main Road in front of TB Hospital,
 Karawal Nagar, Delhi, where accused disclosed to the IO
 that after the quarrel, he had thrown the weapon of offence
 i.e. sariya at that place. However, the weapon of offence
 could not be recovered from that place. Thereafter, accused
 Ashish @ golu led the police team to the house of his co-
 accused Gaurav Parihar at C-1, near Bank of Baroda,
 Mukhiya Market, Karawal Nagar, Delhi. However, Gaurav
 Parihar was not present in his house at that time.
 Thereafter, he alongwith IO and accused Ashish @ Golu
 returned to the PS. He was cross-examined by Ld. Counsel
 for the accused persons. 15. Ct. Harish has been examined as PW-3 and
 deposed that on 12.05.17, he had joined investigation of
 this case with IO ASI Radhey Shyam and on that day, he
 Digitally signed alongwith IO reached to the house of accused Ashish @
PUNEET by PUNEET
 PAHWA
PAHWA 16:19:41
 Date: 2024.10.16
 +0530 Golu at Gali No. 3, Mukhiya Market, Karawal Nagar,

 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . Delhi, where, at the instance and pointing out of
 complainant Pawan, accused Ashish @ Golu was arrested
 by the IO, vide arrest memo Ex.PW3/A and his personal
 search was conducted, vide memo Ex.PW3/B. Disclosure
 statement of accused Ashish @ Golu was also recorded by
 IO, vide disclosure statement Ex.PW3/C. He was cross-
 examined by Ld. Counsel for the accused persons. 16. ASI Radhey Shyam, who is the Investigating
 Officer, has been examined as PW-8. He has deposed that
 on 11.05.2017, on receipt of information regarding PCR
 call no. 92B, he alongwith one Constable reached at the
 spot in front of T.B. hospital, main road, Karawal Nagar,
 Delhi, where on enquiry, he came to know that some
 quarrel had taken place and injured had been removed to
 unknown hospital. Thereafter, on enquiry from the
 hospital, he came to know that one injured Pawan was
 brought in J.P.C. hospital. Thereafter, he reached at JPC
 hospital and collected the MLC of injured Pawan. The
 injured Pawan was referred to higher centre for further
 treatment. 17. He has also deposed that on 12.05.2017, in the
 morning hours, Pawan along with Rinku Raghav (JIJA of
 injured Pawan) came in the Police Station and met him and
 after making enquiries from him he had recorded the
 statement of Pawan, vide Ex.PW8/A and prepared
 RUKKA on the statement of Pawan, vide Ex.PW8/B and Digitally signed got the FIR registered. Thereafter, he along with
PUNEET by PUNEET
 PAHWA
PAHWA Date: 2024.10.16
 16:19:50 +0530
 complainant Pawan reached at the spot, where he had

 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . prepared the site plan of the spot of incident Ex.PW8/C at
 the instance of complainant Pawan. 18. He has also deposed that thereafter, he along
 with complainant Pawan and Ct. Harish reached at
 Mukhiya market, Gali no. 3, Karawal Nagar, where
 accused Ashish @ Golu was identified by the complainant
 and after interrogation, accused Ashish @ Golu was
 arrested, vide arrest memo Ex.PW3/A. He was personally
 searched, vide personal search memo Ex.PW3/B. IO got
 recorded the disclosure statement of the accused Ashish @
 Golu, vide Ex.PW3/C. He also proved the carbon copy of
 application Ex.PW8/D for 1 day PC remand of the accused
 Ashish @ Golu. Supplementary disclosure statement of
 accused Ashish @ Golu, vide Ex.PW8/E was also recorded
 by the IO in the presence of Ct. Sangram. 19. He has further deposed that on 17.07.2017, he
 alongwith Ct. Ashok had gone for the search of co-accused
 Gaurav Parihar, when they reached near Bank of Baroda,
 Karawal Nagar, Delhi, where co-accused Gaurav Parihar
 was found present in the gali. Ct. Ashok was the beat
 officer of the said area and co-accused Gaurav Parihar was
 known to him. They apprehended the co-accused Gaurav
 Parihar and after interrogation, accused Gaurav Parihar
 was arrested, vide arrest memo Ex.PW6/A and accused
 Gaurav Parihar was personally searched, vide personal
 search memo Ex.PW6/B. He also recorded disclosure Digitally signed by PUNEET statement of the accused Gaurav Parihar, vide Ex.PW8/F.
PUNEET PAHWA
PAHWA Date: 20. He has also deposed that on 18.05.2017, he
 also obtained the opinion on the MLC of complainant
 Pawan, vide application Ex.PW8/H from the CMO of JPC
 hospital. The Doctor had opined the nature of injury as
 simple. He had correctly identified both the accused
 Gaurav Parihar and accused Ashish @ Golu in the court
 alongwith the case property i.e. the DANDA Ex.P1. STATEMENT OF ACCUSED 21. All the incriminating circumstances appearing
 in evidence against both the accused persons were put to
 them as required u/s 313 CrPC. Both the accused persons
 stated that they were falsely implicated in the present case,
 as, there is a cross FIR against the complainant, lodged by
 the accused. 22. No defence evidence was led by any of the
 accused persons. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 23. I have heard Sh. F. M. Ansari, learned Addl.
 PP for the State, Sh. S. K. Parihar, learned Counsel for the
 accused Ashish @ Golu and Sh. Anil Nitin, Ld. Counsel
 for the accused Gaurav Parihar. Digitally signed 24. Sh. F. M. Ansari, Ld. Additional PP for the
PUNEET by PUNEET
 PAHWA
PAHWA Date: 2024.10.16
 16:20:10 +0530 State submitted that all the witnesses have supported the

 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . case of the prosecution. It has been argued that though the
 complainant had expired during the pendency of the trial
 and his evidence could not be recorded in the court,
 however, the another eyewitness namely Anuj Kumar has
 supported the case of the prosecution, even if, he had
 partly resiled from his previous statement given to the IO,
 despite that all the essential ingredients of the offences
 against both the accused have been duly proved and
 contended that since the charges have been proved against
 the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt, therefore,
 both the accused persons are liable to be convicted in the
 present case. 25. Sh. S. K. Parihar, learned Counsel for the
 accused Ashish @ Golu and Sh. Anil Nitin, Ld. Counsel
 for the accused Gaurav Parihar submitted to the contrary. It
 has been argued that there are material contradictions in
 the case of the prosecution. First and foremost
 contradiction is that Rinku Raghav, who was Jija of the
 injured, was neither interrogated during the investigation,
 nor examined as witness during trial, which was the major
 lapse on the part of the IO, as, in his cross-examination,
 PW-4 Anuj Kumar had admitted that the injured was taken
 to the hospital on the motorcycle, which was being driven
 by Rinku Raghav and PW-4 Anuj Kumar was sitting as
 second pillion rider. Non-examination of Rinku Raghav
 puts huge doubt upon the case of the prosecution.
 Moreover, as per the story of the prosecution, injury was

PUNEET by Digitally signed PUNEET caused allegedly by the iron rod (saria), but the same was
 PAHWA
PAHWA Date: 2024.10.16
 16:20:18 +0530 not recovered, nor the prosecution has been able to link the

 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . injury with the danda recovered at the instance of the
 accused. It has further been argued that in the MLC, name
 of PW-4 Anuj Kumar has not been mentioned and the
 phone number mentioned in the MLC does not belong to
 Anuj Kumar. Therefore, it is not clear as who had taken the
 injured to the hospital. 26. It is further argued that there is material
 improvements in the testimony of PW-4 Anuj Kumar, as in
 his statement u/s. 161 CrPC, he did not name any of the
 assailants, whereas, in his examination-in-chief, he had
 named both the accused persons and no explanation has
 been given for such improvement. Further, no TIP was got
 conducted during the investigation and the accused persons
 have been identified by the witness during trial at the
 instance of the IO. PW-4 Anuj Kumar is planted witness,
 whose presence is doubtful at the spot as well as at the
 hospital. Further, as per record, the injured was discharged
 from JPC hospital and was referred to GTB hospital for
 further follow up, but, there is nothing on record to show
 that he was taken to the GTB hospital, nor there is any
 MLC on record issued by the GTB hospital. Lastly, it has
 been argued that recovery of the danda at the instance of
 the accused Gaurav Parihar is also doubtful, as no public
 witness was joined during the recovery proceedings. 27. Ld. counsels for the accused persons have
 relied upon the following case-laws:- 28. On these grounds, it has been argued that both
 the accused persons are entitled to be acquitted, as the
 prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused
 persons, beyond reasonable doubt. 29. I have considered the rival submissions, put
 forth by both the sides. FINDINGS 30. As per the record, total 09 witnesses have
 been examined by the prosecution, out of which, only 01
 witness is public witness, whereas, remaining witnesses are
 formal/official in nature. 31. Now, it is to be seen whether the testimony of
 PW-4 Anuj Kumar is credible and trustworthy enough so
 that conviction can be passed solely upon his testimony.
 PW-4 Anuj Kumar is the eyewitness of the incident. 32. Admittedly, the injured could not be
 examined as witness, as he had already expired before he
 could be examined and PW-4 Anuj Kumar is the only
 eyewitness, on whose testimony the entire prosecution case
 Digitally signed depends. In his examination-in-chief, he has very
PUNEET by PUNEET
 PAHWA
PAHWA Date: 2024.10.16
 16:20:38 +0530 categorically stated that on 11.5.2017 at about 10:00 PM,
 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . after taking his dinner, he came out of his house. When he
 was walking on the road, he saw that accused Ashish @
 Golu and Gaurav were present outside the main Gate of
 Veer Sawarkar TB hospital, Karawal Nagar and both the
 said persons were giving beatings to the injured Pawan.
 Accused Ashish @ Golu was giving danda blows to
 Pawan. Witness further stated that initially accused Gaurav
 was involved in the quarrel, which was taking place
 between Pawan and the accused persons, but subsequently,
 accused Gaurav was trying to intervene by asking accused
 Ashish @ Golu not to give beatings to Pawan, but, accused
 Ashish did not pay any heed to him. After causing injuries
 to Pawan, both the accused had fled away from there. 33. Thus, the testimony of PW-4 Anuj Kumar is
 clear and very specific to the effect that accused Ashish @
 Golu and Gaurav were giving beatings to the injured
 Pawan and accused Ashish @ Golu was giving danda
 blows to Pawan. He has very specifically stated that after
 causing injuries to Pawan, both the accused had fled away
 from there. Therefore, the said witness has duly supported
 the case of the prosecution to the extent that it was accused
 Ashish @ Golu and Gaurav, who gave beatings to the
 injured Pawan. Since, he had not fully supported the case
 of the prosecution, he was examined by the Ld. Addl. PP
 for the State, but this court has no hesitation in holding that
 the testimony of witness Anuj Kumar is reliable and sound
 enough so as to believe the case of the prosecution to the
 Digitally signed effect that injuries were caused by both the accused
PUNEET by PUNEET
 PAHWA
PAHWA 16:20:46
 Date: 2024.10.16
 +0530 persons and minor contradictions/omissions do not effect
 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . the credibility of PW-4. No major contradictions came out
 from his cross-examination conducted by the counsel for
 both the accused persons. 34. However, now it is to be seen whether the
 offence u/s. 308 of IPC is attracted or not, for which both
 the accused persons have been charged. 35. In order to constitute an offence under Section
 308 IPC, their lordship of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
 India in case Bhram Dutt v. State 1996 SCC OnLine Del
 163 and the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in case Sanjeev
 Kumar & Anr. v. State , 2023:DHC:2060 have held that
 "it must be proved (1) that the accused
 committed an act, (2) that the said act was
 committed with the intention or knowledge to
 commit culpable homicide not amounting to
 murder and (3) the act was committed under
 such circumstances if the accused by that act
 had caused death he would have been guilty of
 culpable homicide." 36. It was further held that intention is a question of
 fact which is gathered from the acts committed by the accused
 and knowledge means awareness of the consequences of the
 act. This has also been followed by the Hon'ble High Court in Ved Kumari v. State , 2002 SCC OnLine Del 168. 37. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case Anil Phukan v. State of Assam , (1993) 3 SCC 282 has held
 that: The same principle has been enunciated in: 38. To attract section 308 IPC, the prosecution
 has to prove by leading cogent evidence on record that the
 injury was caused under such circumstances that the
 accused persons had knowledge/intention that if by that
 act, they had caused the death of the victim, they would be
 guilty of culpable homicide, not amounting to murder.
 Now, it is to be seen that in the present case, whether the
 accused persons had such knowledge or not and whether
 the said act was committed under such circumstances by
 the accused persons. 39. As per the prosecution story, one of the
 accused was holding iron rod/saria in his hand and another
 accused was holding danda in his hand and both of them
 were giving beatings to the injured with the said saria and
 danda. However, neither the said saria had been recovered,
 nor there is anything on record, which shows that the said
 injuries were caused by the recovered danda only. The Digitally signed PUNEET by PUNEET
 PAHWA
PAHWA Date: 2024.10.16
 16:21:02 +0530
 prosecution also failed to link the said danda with the

 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . injuries caused to the injured. 40. In the present case, the nature of injury
 sustained by the injured has not been proved by the
 prosecution, as there is no opinion of the doctor to that
 effect. Although, doctor, who had conducted the medical
 examination of the injured has been examined as a witness,
 who had deposed about the description of injuries suffered
 by the injured, but, there is nothing on record, which would
 suggest that it was caused under such circumstances that
 the accused persons had intention or knowledge that if by
 the said injuries, they had caused death, they would be
 guilty of culpable homicide, not amounting to murder.
 Such an intention/knowledge on the part of the accused
 persons has to be gathered from the facts and
 circumstances of the case and there is nothing on the
 record which would even remotely suggest that the
 accused persons had caused such injuries to the victim and
 under such circumstances so as to attract section 308 of
 IPC. 41. PW-8 ASI Radhey Shyam has deposed that he
 had moved an application for obtaining the opinion on the
 MLC of the complainant/injured and the carbon copy of
 the application is Ex.PW8/H. The doctor had opined the
 nature of injury as simple. Thus, injuries suffered by the
 injured was simple in nature, so, by no stretch of
 imagination, it can be said to have been caused with such

PUNEET by Digitally signed PUNEET intention or knowledge. Infact, the injury suffered by the
 PAHWA
PAHWA Date: 42. Although, the injured Pawan could not be
 examined as a witness, yet his complaint has been duly
 proved by the IO and the said complaint is Ex.PW8/A. So
 far as the argument of the Ld. Counsel for the accused that
 Jija of the injured was not examined by the IO is
 concerned, though this is a serious lapse on the part of the
 IO, yet same is not fatal to the case of the prosecution as
 witness/PW-4 Anuj Kumar has proved the case of the
 prosecution. In Hema v. State, I (2013) CCR 356 (SC), it
 was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India that for
 defects in investigation, the accused cannot be acquitted. In Gajoo v. State of Uttarakhand , 2012 (9) SCC 532, while
 reiterating the same principle again, the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court had held that:- 43. Therefore, even though, there are some lapses
 in the investigation of the present case, but they do not go
 Digitally signed into the root of the case so as to totally disbelieve the
PUNEET by PUNEET
 PAHWA
PAHWA Date: 2024.10.16
 16:21:27 +0530 prosecution story. Another argument raised by the counsel

 SC NO. 169/2019 STATE VS. ASHISH @ GOLU & ANR . for the accused that no TIP was conducted is of not much
 relevance as the accused persons were known to the
 complainant and the complaint was made by naming both
 the accused persons. Therefore, it was not incumbent upon
 the IO to conduct the TIP in such circumstances. Lastly,
 the argument that the presence of PW-4 Anuj Kumar at the
 spot as well as at the hospital is doubtful and there are
 material improvements in his testimony are also of not
 much force as in his statement u/s. 161 of CrPC, he has
 very categorically stated that when he was walking outside
 his home, he saw two persons giving beatings to the
 injured and when he reached near the spot, both the
 assailants fled away from there. Thus, there is no
 contradiction in his statement u/s. 161 CrPC and in his
 testimony. Infact, both of them are corroborating with each
 other. Since, the incident had happened near his home, his
 presence at the spot could not be doubted. 44. Sec. 222(2) of CrPC provides that when a
 person is charged with an offence and facts are proved
 which reduce it to a minor offence, he may be convicted of
 the minor offence, although he is not charged with it. The
 prosecution has been able to prove beyond reasonable
 doubt that it was the accused persons only, who had given
 beatings to the injured, due to which, he had suffered
 injuries and it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt
 that the accused persons had voluntarily caused hurt to the Digitally signed PUNEET
 by PUNEET
 PAHWA injured Pawan and thus, both the accused persons are liable
PAHWA Date: 45. In view of the above discussion, it can be said
 that the prosecution has failed to prove it's case beyond all
 reasonable doubts with respect to the offence punishable
 under section 308 / 34 IPC, therefore, both the accused
 persons cannot be held guilty for the offence punishable
 under section 308 IPC. Accordingly, both the accused
 persons namely Ashish @ Gulu and Gaurav Parihar stand
 acquitted of the charged offences punishable under sections 308 / 34 of IPC in the present case. However, the
 prosecution has proved it's case beyond all reasonable
 doubts with respect to the offence punishable under section
 323 / 34 IPC, therefore, both the accused persons are held
 guilty for the offence punishable under section 323 / 34 IPC.
 Accordingly, both the accused persons namely Ashish @
 Gulu and Gaurav Parihar stand convicted of the offences
 punishable under sections 323 / 34 of IPC in the present
 case. Let they be heard on the point of sentence qua the
 offences punishable under sections 323 / 34 of IPC. Announced in the open court
on the 16th day of October 2024 Digitally signed
 by PUNEET
 PUNEET PAHWA
 PAHWA Date: