% 03.01.2024 1. This is a petition under section 36 of the Arbitration and Conciliation
 Act, 1996 („the Arbitration and Conciliation Act ‟) seeking enforcement of
 the Arbitral Award dated 17.03.2023 made by International Court of
 Arbitration („ICC‟). As per the Award, the claims of the decree-holder were
 allowed and the total amount awarded in favor of the decree-holder is INR
 381,24,07,982/- plus interest at simple rate of the State Bank of India Prime
 Lending Rate +2% from 05.08.2019 to 31.10.2023. 2. It is stated by Mr Rewari, learned counsel appearing for the decree-
 holder that no amounts have been paid. 3. Mr Gupta, learned senior counsel appears for the judgment-debtor and
 has not filed any reply. The respondent has in fact filed a copy of the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/01/2024 at 21:59:31
 petition under section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 filed
 by the judgment-debtor and has drawn my attention to Clauses W, X, Y, Z,
 DD, EE, LL and MM of the Grounds in the petition, which reads as under: has been violated and the Award is in conflict with the most
 basic notions of morality and justice. X. Because the claim of Respondent no. 1 with respect to
 Engineering expenses (allegedly Respondent no.1 only did Basic
 Engineering) is of Rs.71.74 Crores while the contract price of
 total Engineering (includes Basic as well as Detailed
 Engineering) is Rs.22.7 Crores. Despite the same and beyond
 the contractual terms, the Arbitral Tribunal has awarded the full
 amount of Rs.71.74 Crores to Respondent no.1 and that too on
 the basis of
 false and fabricated documents/ invoices. Y. Because the Arbitral Tribunal has given total perverse
 findings on the face of it with respect to the errors in the invoices
 related to Engineering expenses. The witness of Respondent no.
 1 has categorically admitted that there are errors in such
 invoices and despite the same the Arbitral Tribunal has rendered
 a finding that the said witness did not accept any error in such
 invoices. Z. Because on the basis of fake and fabricated invoices, huge
 sum of Rs.71.74 crores is awarded to the Respondent no. 1,
 which is against the fundamental policy of India and also the
 most basic notions of morality and justice. DD. Because the Arbitral Tribunal has wrongly allowed various
 claims of the Respondent no. 2 just on the basis of some entries
 in the SAP system and without there being any corroborative
 evidence on record despite the same being unreliable and
 manipulated document. EE. Because the witness of Respondent no. 2 has admitted in his
 statement that the column of "WBS Element" is the most

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/01/2024 at 21:59:31
 important column in the SAP sheets which is missing in those
 documents and without which such sheets could not be related to
 the instant project and further also admitted that the SAP sheets
 can be manipulated. Despite the same the huge claims of
 Respondent no. 2 have been allowed. LL. Because the impugned award has been obtained by playing
 fraud and as such the impugned award is liable to be set aside. It
 is well settled that no Court will allow the person to get an
 advantage which he has obtained by fraud. No Award of the
 Arbitral Tribunal can be allowed to stand if it has been obtained
 by fraud. Fraud unveils everything. The Court should find the
 fraud and once it is proved it vitiates judgment, contract and the
 transactions whatsoever. MM. Because various Hon'ble Courts has held as under with
 regard to if any party plays fraud upon Court:........." 4. Mr Gupta, learned Senior Counsel states that detailed instances of
 fraud have been highlighted by the JD and has drawn my attention
 to Section 36(3) 2nd Proviso of the Arbitration and Conciliation
 Act, 1996 which reads as under: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/01/2024 at 21:59:32
 the award unconditionally pending disposal of the challenge
 under section 34 to the award." 5. Mr Gupta, learned counsel further states that a perusal of the grounds
 in the section 34 petition filed by the respondent shows that the Arbitral
 Award was induced by fraud and hence this Court is required to stay the
 Arbitral Award unconditionally pending disposal of the challenge under the Section 34 . He further states that notice has been issued in the Section 34 petition filed by the respondents which prima facie show that the Arbitral
 Award is based upon fraud. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties. 7. Section 36(2) of the Arbitral Award reads as under: section (3), on a separate application made for that purpose." 8. A perusal of sub- section 3 read with sub- section 2 of Section 36 of the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 demonstrates that it would only be
 the court which is hearing the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration
 and Conciliation Act, 1996, which upon satisfaction that the Arbitral Award
 was induced by fraud or corruption, shall stay the Arbitral Award. 9. The Executing Court under the second proviso of section 36(3) of the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 will not be the competent court to
 stay execution of the Arbitral Award, even if it is alleged to have been
 procured by fraud. The "Court" mentioned in Section 36 of the Arbitration
 and Conciliation Act, 1996 will be the Court hearing objections under

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/01/2024 at 21:59:32 Section 34 and not the Court hearing the execution petition. Section 36(2) , Section 36(3) and provisos are to be read in conjunction with each other and
 not in isolation of each other. 10. In addition, the paragraphs reproduced above in the Section 34 petition are arguments on merits which the competent court under Section
 34 is hearing and shall adjudicate the same. 11. This Court in a petition under Section 36 of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act for enforcement of the Arbitral Award is not required to go
 into the said allegations. 12. For the said reasons, I am inclined to allow the Execution petition.
 The respondent is directed to deposit the awarded amount within a period of
 six weeks from today with the Registrar General, Delhi High Court and in
 case the same is not done, the decree-holder will be entitled to seek
 attachment of the bank account and the assets of the judgment-debtor. 13. The observations in the order are only for the purposes of adjudicating
 the Execution petition and will have no bearing on the pending Section 34 petition. 14. List on 09.04.2024. JASMEET SINGH, J
 JANUARY 3, 2024
 sr
 Click here to check corrigendum, if any

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/01/2024 at 21:59:32