This bail application under Section 439 Cr.P.C., has been
preferred by the applicant, seeking his release on bail, for his alleged
involvement in commission of an offence under Section 8 / 22 / 60 of
Narcotics Drugs & Psychotropic Substances, Act (hereinafter referred to as
the NDPS Act ) which was registered against him by way of Case Crime
No.787 of 2019 at P.S. Kotwali, Roorkee, District Haridwar on
15.12.2019. This judgment has to be not only a simplicitor consideration of
bail application; but, would also be, dealing with the authorities, which had
been relied by the counsel for the applicant for substantiating, his case for
consideration of the bail application and his consequential release. 2. The precise facts which engages consideration in the present bail
application, though which is partially pleaded in the bail application
initially and partially later on, developed by way of a supplementary
affidavits dated 02.11.2020 and 22.03.2021, but for the purpose, they are
being dealt with as under: 3. The aforesaid FIR, which was registered as against the present
applicant, as Case Crime No.787 of 2019, on 15.12.2019 at 16:46 'O'
Clock, it has been complaint of that the Sub-Inspector Mr. Sanjay Singh
Negi, on receipt of an information from his sources came to know that a 2 White I-20 Car, bearing Registration No.UK08 AP 3105, was expected to
cross over a place commonly called as Malak Chungi and as per
information which was received by the Sub Inspector, it was informed that
the said vehicle was carrying the contrabanded goods, which were the
prohibited articles, as per the provisions contained under the NDPS Act . It
is the case of the complainant in the FIR, that on receipt of the said
information, prior to his Ravanagi Report No.54 at 16:46 'O' Clock; even
much prior to it he has sent the Chatek, alongwith two constables in order
to keep vigil and to apprehend the car, which was alleged to be informed
was carrying the contraband goods. Subsequently, the police team headed
by Sub-Inspector Mr. Sanjay Singh Negi, the complainant are said to have
reached the place called as 'Malak Chungi' on Haridwar Road, near Laksar
Bus Stop and they apprehended the car bearing Registration No.UK08 AP
3105. When the police officials wanted to stop the car, the driver of the
vehicle attempted to turn the car and make an attempt to run away from the
spot, but however after exercising of force, the police party was able to
stop the car and apprehended the driver, who was driving the said car as it
was informed by the police informer. 4. The police team which apprehended the car on asking the name of
the person, driving the car, the driver very candidly informed that his name
is 'Sharukh', and he informed that he was carrying the contrabanded article
called as NRX-Buprrnorphine Injection (Rexogesie). When the car was
stopped, the present applicant very candidly had intimated the police party,
which was headed by Mr. Sanjay Singh Negi the Sub-Inspector, that his
vehicle was carrying a carton, in the rear of the car, filled with aforesaid
contrabanded articles as detailed above, which were the injections, which
he contended and stated that he used to sell it to the students. On the car
being apprehended, the Sub-Inspector informed the applicant of his rights,
which were enshrined and protected by Section 50 of NDPS Act; for the
purposes of conducting the search and seizer by a Gazetted Officer. The
present applicant on being informed by the Sub-Inspector, about his rights 3 conferred under Section 50 of the NDPS Act; had expressed his opinion
that he wanted the search to be carried on him and his car by a Gazetted
Officer. Accordingly, Mr. Sanjay Singh Negi, the Sub Inspector, who had
his Mobile bearing No.9412957506; at about 19:40 hours, is said to have
given a call to the Circle Officer, Mr. Chandan Singh Bisht; on his Mobile
No.9411112996, informing him about the occurrence of 15.12.2019 at
about 16:46, and also informed to the applicant, that the Circle Officer,
who happens to be an officer of a rank of a Gazetted Officer, would be
falling to be an officer, who is competent to conduct the search and
seizure, as per Section 50 of NDPS Act. On receipt of the said information
the Circle Officer reached the spot by his official vehicle bearing
Registration No.UK07 GA 2281 and thereafter after seeking a prior
consent from the present applicant, he searched the applicant in person, as
well as the car which was being driven by him, and was involved in the
commissioning of the offence. 5. As per the prosecution story in the FIR, the applicant was wearing a
sweater and a shirt and on being searched by the aforesaid Gazetted
Officer, it was found that under his shirt four boxes of the aforesaid
contrabanded injection were found being hidden and each box carried five
strips of the injections, in it, with one strip having five injections in it; that
means the total injections, which were recovered from the body in person
of the applicant, were total 100 injections, and their volume capacity was
of 2 ml each, with the chemical composition of the contrabanded salt to be
0.3 mg. in each injection, and hence, in the recovery memo, it was depicted
that as per the said combination of the salt, it was about 0.600 mg. of
Buperonorphine, the contrabanded salt, which was found to have
recovered out of the said injection from the applicant. During the course of
investigation, the applicant has informed and made a statement too, that he
had brought these contrabanded articles/injection from Purkaji and all
along the way till he was apprehended by the police team at Malak Chungi,
he had sold some of the injections to the students and on the way and he 4 has recovered money from them after the sale of them. The applicant
further informed the Gazetted Officer in the presence of the police party
headed by Mr. Sanjay Singh Negi, the Sub-Inspector, that apart from the
contrabanded, injections recovered from his possession, on person of the
applicant, there was a carton in the diggi of the vehicle bearing
Registration No.UK08 AP 3105, which was being driven by the applicant
and when the police party seized the said carton from the rear of the
vehicle; it was checked by the police party; in the presence of Gazetted
Officer and it was found that the carton was having 36 boxes and each box
was carrying 25 injections, which were the restricted psychotropic
substances and as per the determination of the combination of the
prohibited salt it was found that a total of 0.540 mg. of restricted salt, was
found in possession of the applicant, being carried without any authority
with him. Accordingly, the applicant was arrested on the spot on
15.12.2019, and the recovery memo was prepared in the light of torch and
the head lights of the vehicle, because it was dark. The recovery memo was
signed by the present applicant and he was taken in custody and rest of the
articles for example purse, mobile and the cash, which was being carried
by him were recovered and taken into custody and fard baramadgi was
prepared by the police party at police station. 6. The applicant had preferred a bail application before the court of
Special Judge, NDPS and the said bail application was rejected by the
order of 20.12.2019; observing thereof that the restricted injections, which
were numbered as 1000 injections, which were found from the possession
of the applicant, they are included as Item No.169, in the Schedule of list
of contrabanded goods described under the Act and the quantity thus
recovered from the possession of the applicant, was much above the
commercial quantity, as has been specified under the Act, which limits its
maximum quantity to be 20 grams, but since the recovery itself was
beyond the commercial quantity the bail application was rejected. Hence,
the present bail application. 7. When the present bail application before this Court, was preferred on
02.01.2020, the principal ground, which was taken by the applicant for
seeking his release on bail, was that the factum of recovery being made
from the car, after the same being intercepted by the police team, and the
search being carried in the presence of the Circle Officer, the recovery of
1000 injections, were the facts which were not denied. But the applicant
qualified the pleadings for the grant of bail on the ground that his
implication in the commission of the aforesaid offence is false, and as a
matter of fact, he has been made as a scapegoat, for the reason being that
there was no independent witness of the alleged recovery, which was
carried by the police team, and there was non compliance of Section 50 and 51 of the NDPS Act. Another ground, which was initially taken by the
applicant in the bail application, was that there was a non compliance of
the provisions contained under Section 100 (4) of Cr.P.C., as all the
witnesses of the alleged recovery were the police personnel and their
recovery and recovery memo exclusively, cannot be relied with, though we
cannot loose sight of the fact that the recovery memo thus prepared in the
presence of the Gazetted Officer, was duly endorsed by the applicant and
he had rather confessed his guilt of having carrying the contrabanded
goods in the presence of the Gazetted Officer and he took a plea that he
was not carrying any criminal history. At this juncture, this Court feels it to
be necessary to deal with the pleadings raised by the applicant in the
supplementary affidavit which was filed on 02.11.2020, wherein the
additional plea was raised by the applicant for the first time to the
following effect:- 8. Absolutely, a new case was carved out by the applicant for the
first time in the supplementary affidavit, which was neither a case in the
bail application, which was filed before the court below, or was ever a
case, which was pleaded at the first available instance, even when the bail
was preferred before this Court on 02.01.2020, the new case which was
carved out by the applicant was that the entire theory of the applicant's
engagement in the commission of the offence is per-se false, for the reason
being that it is out of an animosity, which the applicant contends, that he
had because Jahid Ali and Parvez , who are said to be old drug paddlers,
they were got arrested, on an information, which was supplied by the father
of the applicant, as back as on 30.05.2016 and hence on that pretext, he
contended that it was Jahid Ali, who had cooked up a false story in
collusion with Mr. Ravindra Singh, the Sub-Inspector, who is alleged to be
an associate of Jahid Ali, who was allegedly, a relative of Ravindra Singh,
Sub-Inspector. 9. A new story was built up by the applicant, for the first time, yet
again, altogether that Parvej, who was a co-accused with Jahid Ali, on
15.12.2019, has taken the car from the applicant, for one hour and had
planted the drugs in it, which was later on seized by the police party on
15.12.2019, from the applicant at Malak Chungi. Hence, the prosecution
case cannot be relied, and he deserves to be released on bail. 10. This entire theory of the applicant, which was developed by
way of a supplementary affidavit for the first time on 02.11.2020, in the
absence of the same being substantiated by placing any material on record
before the learned trial court or even before this Court; it could be
rationally said that it is absolutely a concocted and a false story, which was 7 developed by the applicant as an after thought. In order to carve out a case
of malice, which was allegedly activated by Jahid Ali, because the father of
the applicant was instrumental in getting him arrested for the alleged
involvement of Jahid Ali, in dealing with the drugs. 11. The counsel for the applicant further contended that in the
absence of there being a video recording, which has been mandated by the
judgment rendered by the Coordinate Bench of this Court on 25.07.2018,
the entire story would be false and particularly a reference was made by
the applicant to the ratio laid down by the Coordinate Bench in the matters
of Ashok Chauhan. 12. He further submits that the facts and circumstances of the
present case, stands squarely covered, on account of the grant of an
identical bail being Bail Application No.977 of 2013 of one Mr. Arif,
which was granted by this Court by an order of 09.09.2013, which was
arising from a different Case Crime No.171 of 2013 (a precedent of bail
relied which was granted six years prior in time to the present offence.) 13. There are two aspects of the matter, which this Court feels it to be
necessary, to deal with at this stage itself, that as far as the reference made
by the applicant to the judgment of the Coordinate Bench of this Court
necessitating the propriety of video recording of the instances of search
and seizure, as has been laid down in the judgment of Ashok Chauhan. As
far as this Court is concerned, if the said reference is taken into
consideration, as it has been dealt with in para 15 of the said judgment
reported in ( 2018) 2 UD 191 Ashok Chauhan vs. State of Uttarakhand ,
para 15 of the said judgment is referred to hereunder:- 14. This Court is of the view that the Coordinate Bench in its
judgment while dealing with the issue regards the necessity of getting a
video recording of the arrest in the NDPS cases too, it was not made as a
mandatory rule of the proceedings, but rather it was only directory in
nature in view of the findings which has been recorded in para 15 (as
highlighted above), which has been referred to above . There the Court has
only expressed an opinion and an expectation, that to prevent the
corruption, it would be advisable to direct the Director General of Police
of State of Uttarakhand, for taking necessary action for getting the video
recording; meaning as per my view thereby it was not a positive directive,
but rather it was the instructions for the State to comply with para 15 of
(page 4) of supplementary affidavit. 15. In relation thereto the learned counsel for the applicant has
made a further reference to para 29 to 33 of the judgment as reported in
( 2020) 1 UD 106, Harish Chandra vs. State of Uttarakhand , which was
based upon yet an earlier ratio which was laid down by the Hon'ble Apex 9 Court in a judgment reported in ( 2016) 3 SCC 379 Union of India vs.
Mohan Lal and another and particularly has extracted in para 19 of the
said judgment , of Mohan Lal (Supra) which reads as under:- 16. As far as the principles of Mohan Lal (Supra) case, which was
relied in Harish Chandra judgment reported in ( 2020) 1 UD 106, Harish
Chandra vs. State of Uttarakhand if para 33 is taken into consideration it
was from the prospective of compliance of Section 52 (A) Sub Section (3); it was yet again only the parameters which was widely laid down and was
expressed and expected to be followed while the High Court deals with the
applications in order to watch the performance of the Magistrate of the
subordinate court in order to deal with the menace of drugs which has now
taken an alarming dimensions and particularly in the State of Uttarakhand,
where no slackness could be adopted:- 17. This Court of the view that the said direction was also only
regulatory in nature and it was a suggestion which was expressed, and it
was not a mandate which was determined at that point of time to be
adhered in the NDPS cases, at the stage of arrest, seizure or recovery of the
contraband. 18. There is another logic, why this Court is not agreeing with the
argument of the counsel for the applicant pertaining to the necessity of
complying with the alleged direction of video recording of the incident of
search, seizure and arrest; its because invariably such type of incidents of
seizure and search, looking to the topography of the State and its
geographical constraints, an accessibility are normally too difficult in the
areas, which is normally not accessed by the public at large or where
normally the public is not readily made available, enabling to record them
as witnesses of the incident of seizure and search, and at times it could not
be ruled out too, that the search and seizure are being conducted, within
such a short interval or notice of an information received by the police
party, that video recording of all the circumstances and cases of NDPS, and
in each cases invariably may not be practically possible. In this particular
case there is yet another aspect which is to be taken into consideration, that
the applicant, as per the pleading raised in the supplementary affidavit,
which was filed by the applicant on 02.11.2020; with the change of
counsel, for the first time, has brought the fact on record that he had filed
an application before the learned trial court for getting the copy of video
recording of the search, seizure and arrest, on record before the trial court,
while his bail application was being considered by filing the same on
08.10.2020, and according to his own case as pleaded in para 5 of the
supplementary affidavit; the said application was rejected by the learned
trial court, by an order of 23.10.2020 and the said order has attained
finality; as it has not been put to challenge by the applicant any further
before any superior forum. 19. The alleged theory of attributing malice, towards his alleged
involvement in the commission of the present offence, on the pretext of the
arrest of Jahid Ali, and Parvej, which was conducted on the basis of the
information, which was allegedly supplied by the father of the applicant as
back as on 30.05.2016, yet again does not repose much confidence on this
theory, this Court is of the view that; it cannot not be relied with; for the 12 reason being that the present incident itself has chanced much thereafter on
15.12.2019 and that to when there is no connectivity of it was established
with the earlier incident of 30.05.2016, and that with the present incident
of arrest and seizure of 15.12.2019, and furthermore, I am of the opinion,
that if at all there was any malice on part of the complainant, for an earlier
action of the father of the applicant of 2016, I am of the view that this plea
of defence, which was already earlier available to the applicant, it ought to
have been taken as defence, at the very first instance, particularly at the
time when the bail application was being considered by the learned trial
court, or even at the stage when it was being instituted before this Court.
As far as his own statement which has been recorded in the recovery memo
of carrying psychotropic substances; preparation of the recovery memo, the
recovery of contrabanded article to the extent, which has already been
discussed above are the facts which are admitted by the applicant, as all
these documents were duly signed by him, without any protest as such. 20. This Court had consistently during the course of argument,
called upon the counsel for the applicant Mr. Vinod Sharma, to answer and
address the Court on the impact of Section 37 of NDPS Act, as to what
would be the impact of the recovery of the contrabanded goods being made
from his possession, which was beyond the commercial quantity, as
envisaged by Entry 169 of the Schedule to the Act , no plausible, or any
justifiable, reply has been extended by the learned counsel for the
applicant, and rather the impact of Section 37 of the Act, was consciously
tried to be avoided, to be answered by the counsel for the applicant;
because as per the consistent finding which has been recorded; the
recovery of the contrabanded article from the applicant, was much beyond
the commercial quantity and hence, the implication of Section 37 of the
Act, as per the opinion of this Court becomes inevitably applicable, which
stipulates certain restrictions in consideration of the bail application, in the
circumstances where recovery of contraband is beyond the commercial
quantity. 21. The counsel for the applicant had placed reliance on the
judgment, as has been rendered by the Coordinate Bench, in the First Bail
Application No.977 of 2013 Arif vs. State of Uttarakhand. At that stage
the Court, which was seized with the jurisdiction under Section 439 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, it had for considering the bail application,
had exercised its inherent power under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. while
quashing the FIR and its implication and consideration, were limited to
under the facts and circumstances of the said case, where the direction was
issued to register the FIR against the police officials, for the offences
punishable under Sections 193 , 195 , 196 , 197 , 199 , 200 , 2003 , 420 , 466 and 471 of the IPC; for their dereliction in performance of their official
duties and because of the false implication of the applicant therein. As per
my view, in fact, the said judgment of 09.09.2013, as has been rendered by
the Coordinate Bench of this Court, in Arif's case (supra) was not laying
down a precedent, but was rather yet again only a direction for the
competent authority for an action to be taken against a police authority for
a wrongful registration of the FIR, owing to the specific facts and
circumstances of the case, as it was involved consideration in the Arif's
case, which is not identical in nature; as pleaded by the counsel for the
applicant in the present case. Hence as far as, the view of this Court is
concerned, I am of the view that the said principle will not be applicable,
herein and that too also in the light of the fact of the judgment reported in
(2016) 3 Supreme Court Cases 135 Pooja Pal vs. Union of India , where
almost an identical direction was issued for registration of FIR against the
erring police personnel, which was yet again a case which was dealing
with an aspect of a final adjudication of the alleged involvement of the
accused therein in the commission of an offence and the effect of a false
registration of the FIR. 22. There is yet an another distinction to be carved out in the
present case, because even as per the C.O.'s statement which was though 14 recorded in under Section 161 of Cr.P.C., he has made reference to the
G.D. entries and no motive or malice as such, which was pleaded by the
applicant in the supplementary affidavit, at a later stage, was said to be
justified and established to be justified by the applicant, under the facts and
circumstances of the present case. Thus in the statement of the C.O. he has
specifically observed that the contrabanded article, which was recovered
from the possession of the applicant, was beyond the commercial quantity
and that there was a strict compliance of Section 50 and 60 of the NDPS
Act, for taking in possession the articles recovered, for the pleading raised
to the contrary no reliance can be placed on the same, at this stage for
consideration of bail, which would obviously be a subject matter of
judicial scrutiny during trial of the case. 23. When this bail application was pending consideration before
this Court, the Coordinate Bench of this Court by an order of 19.11.2020
directed the Government Advocate to place on record the video recording
on record as it was allegedly claimed by the applicant, on basis of
judgment of Ashok Chauhan (Supra) and later on by an order of
10.03.2021, the Investigating Officer, was present and for the purposes of
the alleged non compliance of Section 52(A) (2) of NDPS Act, the
Investigating Officer, has very candidly made a statement that since it was
a sudden search , which was done within a very short interval of receipt of
information, the videography could not be possible in the circumstances of
the present case. As far as the plea of call detail report is concerned the
Investigating Officer, has answered the Court's query to its satisfaction on
10.03.2021, that since one year has lapsed the CDR report cannot be
received now by the I.O. as of now i.e. 10.03.2021. 24. Consequently, the argument which had been extended, that
alleged seizure and search, since was contrary to the provisions of the NDPS Act , the presumption under Section 114 (g) of the Evidence Act,
would be drawn in favour of the present applicant, I am not in agreement 15 with, it for the reason being that since his own application stood rejected
by an order of the trial court dated 23.10.2020, which has attained finality,
no apparent error of non compliance of Section 52(A)(2) of NDPS Act,
could be complaint of by the applicant in the present case at this stage,
which is still left open to be considered by the trial court, when the
applicant is tried for the offence, on its merits. 25. By way of a repetition, the other authorities on which the
counsel has placed reliance pertaining to the necessity of the video
recording, as already observed above that they were only the directives for
laying down a procedure and not the mandate, where the Court has
expressed any positive opinion, it was only an expectations from the
investigating agency, but the other judgments on which the reliance has
been placed where the video recording were expected to have been made
as an essential part of investigation, are not the case in relation to the NDPS Act and hence, principally those judgments will not be applicable in
the present case as were based on different facts and circumstances of the
case, and in relation to other offences, where the parameters of
investigation or trial entails a different percept altogether. 26. The Standing Counsel has later on filed a supplementary
counter affidavit on 13.05.2021; clarifying his plea pertaining to the
compliance of Section 52 (A) and has observed that the inventory of the
contraband recovered, was made in the presence of the applicant. The
samples were sealed in his presence. The samples have been sent for FSL
examination and the other confesticated articles had been kept in malkhana
in compliance of the provisions of Section 52(A) (2) of the Act, which are
still lying there in the safe custody. The facts stated therein, remained
unrebutted by the applicant till date by filing any reply to it, hence would 16 amount to be an admission of facts, narrated by the Government Advocate,
in the supplementary counter affidavit. 27. Apart from the above cited judgment on which the learned
counsel for the applicant has placed reliance, he had further for the
purposes of invoking the jurisdiction of this Court, under Section 439 of
Cr.P.C., had made references to number of other authorities of the Hon'ble
Apex Court, as well as of this Court in support of his contention, In a
reference thereto and particularly most of the authorities, which has been
dealt with by the counsel for the applicant, pertains to the implications of Section 52 (A) of the NDPS Act, which is referred to and extracted
hereunder:- 28. To start with the arguments which has been extended the
learned counsel for the applicant he had made reference to the judgments
rendered by the two Judges Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court, as
reported in (2018) 5 Supreme Court Cases 311, Shafhi Mohd. vs. State
of Himanchal. Later on, the said judgment of Shafhi Mohd. (supra)
was reconsidered in judgment reported in (2018) 10 Supreme Court
Cases 443, Social Action Forum for Manav Adhikar and Ors. vs.
Union of India (UOI), Ministry of Law and Justice and Ors by the
three Judges Bench of Hon'ble Apex Court and particularly the reference
may be had to the basic intention and purposes of the aforesaid two
judgments which were under consideration before the Hon'ble Apex
Court. In case, if the judgments in itself in its nutshell are taken into
consideration particularly that as referred in para 1 of the judgment, where
it extracts the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the Shafhi
Mohd.'s judgment (2018) 5 Supreme Court Cases 311 Shafhi Mohmad
vs. State of Himanchal Pradesh. In fact, it was only suggestive in nature
and it was a preposition, which was laid down while considering the
argument which was extended by the learned Additional Solicitor General
extracting the ratio laid by Hon'ble Apex Court from Karnail Singh's case 18 reported in (2009) 8 Supreme Court Cases 539, with regards to the
implications of the Field Officers Hand Book, which was issued by the
Narcotics Control Bureau, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of
India, which as per the stipulations contained by the Narcotics Drugs &
Psychotropic Substances Amendment Bill 2016, which was presented
before the Lok Sabha by the Members of Parliament, the Hon'ble Apex
Court in the said judgment had only suggested the logistic support to be
provided to such inspection and investigating teams and the methods of
videography, which has been laid to be expected to be followed after
taking the permission under Section 52(A) of the Act; for pre trial disposal
of contraband. If the intention and purpose, as well as the spirit stipulated
by the said judgment is considered from the prospective of sub para 4 to 6
of para 1 of the said judgment, which is extracted hereunder:- 29. It was yet again an endeavor which was made by the Hon'ble
Apex Court by directing the Home Secretary, Government of India and
consequent thereto, to direct the investigating agencies, as to in what
manner and the measures can be adopted in order to make use of the above
technology for effecting investigation. This Court cannot be oblivious of
the fact, that if para 5 of the said judgment of Shafhi Mohd. (supra) which
has dealt with the implications of Section 54 (A) of Cr.P.C., the second
proviso to it, in fact, it was the videography aspect which was taken into
consideration for the purposes of providing more authenticity to the
process of identification, and statement which are recorded under Section
164 of Cr.P.C. as it has been referred in sub para 5 of para 1 of the said
judgment, which is quoted hereunder:- 30. If the implications of sub para 5 of para 1 of the said judgment
is taken into consideration, the necessity of recording the videography was
for the purposes of the recording of the confessional statement which are
made under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. and the measures, which could be
adopted while recording the dying declaration, identification process and
post mortem, that had been one of the prime factors, which was taken into
consideration by the Hon'ble Apex Court, which was only directive in
nature and was only a suggestion which was extended to the Government
of India for its implications. What this Court wants to observe, that in view
of the aforesaid reasoning, which has been given in relation to the said
judgment of Shafhi Mohd. (Supra); it cannot be read and if it was lying
down a ratio rather it was only a directive, which was issued by the 20 Hon'ble Apex Court, and an expectation from the Government of India, for
the purposes of adopting the certain procedure of videography to provide
more authenticity to the investigation which has been carried out and that
is why, if para 9, 10 and 11 of the said judgment, are taken into
consideration, which are quoted hereunder:- 31. The directions contained therein as per my opinion, were
suggestive in nature, on the basis of the report of Expert Committee, which
was called for by the Hon'ble Apex Court, in the said judgment in order to
mandate the implications of the Constitutional Bench Judgment of Karnail
Singh vs. State of Haryana as reported in (2009) 8 Supreme Court
Cases 539, where the technology has been taken, as to be a great and
effective tool in investigation. The videography, as a device for crucial
evidence can be measured and presented in a credible manner and hence in
para 10 of the said judgment the Hon'ble Apex Court had extended an
expression that it would be 'desirable for acceptance' of the suggestions
given therein to be adopted as a practice by the committees, in the
enforcement of the criminal law and ultimately the directions given therein
were contained in para 12, 13 and 14 of the said judgment, which are
quoted hereunder:-. 32. On scrutiny of the judgment aforesaid relied by the counsel for
the applicant, as discussed above, in fact, it was not a mandate which was
compulsorily made applicable by the Hon'ble Apex Court, and to be
invariably followed in all the Criminal cases, irrespective of its factual
backdrop and the nature and circumstances of an offence, which was the
subject matter of investigation and particularly, if we take it from the
prospective of the judgment referred therein in para 13 of the said
judgment of Shafhi Mohd. (supra) from the view point of the judgment as
reported in (1997) 1 Supreme Court Cases 416, D.K. Basu vs. State of
West Bengal , on which the reliance has been placed by the learned
counsel for the applicant. In fact, if the spirit of 1997 judgment of D.K.
Basu (Supra), is taken into consideration, in fact it was dealing with an
aspect of providing checks and control for the purpose of curtailment of
human rights and abuse and particularly the directives contained therein
were for the purposes of installation of CCTV cameras in the police
station, as well as in the prisons in order to keep a check and control on
custodial violence, rape, death in police custody and lockups etc.

 "1. The Executive Chairman, Legal Aid Services, West Bengal, a
 non-political organisation registered under the Societies
 Registration Act , on 26th August, 1986 addressed a letter to the
 Chief Justice of India drawing his attention to certain news items
 published in the Telegraph dated 20, 21 and 22 of July, 1986 and in
 the Statesman and Indian Express dated 17th August, 1986
 regarding deaths in police lock-ups and custody. The Executive
 Chairman after reproducing the news items submitted that it was
 imperative to examine the issue in depth and to develop "custody
 jurisprudence" and formulate modalities for awarding
 compensation to the victim and/or family members of the victim for
 atrocities and death caused in police custody and to provide for
 accountability of the officers concerned. It was also stated in the
 letter that efforts are often made to hush up the matter of lock-up
 deaths and thus the crime goes unpunished and "flourishes". It was
 requested that the letter alongwith the news items be treated as a
 writ petition under "public interest litigation" category. 8. The Law Commission of India also in response to the notice
 issued by this Court forwarded a copy of the 113th Report
 regarding "Injuries in police custody and suggested incorporation
 of Section 114-B in the Indian Evidence Act . 9. The importance of affirmed rights of every human being need no
emphasis and, therefore, to deter breaches thereof becomes a sacred
duty of the Court, as the custodian and protector of the fundamental
and the basic human rights of the citizens. Custodial violence,
including torture and death in the lock ups, strikes a blow at the
Rule of Law, which demands that the powers of the executive
should not only be derived from law but also that the same should
be limited by law. Custodial violence is a matter of concern. It is
aggravated by the fact that it is committed by the persons who are
supposed to be the protectors of the citizens. It is committed under
the shield of uniform and authority in the four walls of a police
station or lock-up, the victim being totally helpless. The protection
of an individual from torture and abuse by the police and other law
enforcing officers is a matter of deep concern in a free society.
These petitions raise important issues concerning police powers,
including whether monetary compensation should be awarded for
established infringement of the Fundamental Rights guaranteed by Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India. The issues are
fundamental. 10. "Torture" has not been defined in the Constitution or in other
penal laws. 'Torture' of a human being by another human being is
essentially an instrument to impose the will of the 'strong' over the
'weak' by suffering. The word torture today has become
synonymous with the darker side of the human civilisation. Torture is a wound in the soul so painful that sometimes you
 can almost touch it, but it is also such intangible that there is
 no way to heal it. Torture is anguish squeezing in your chest,
 cold as ice and heavy as a stone paralyzing as sleep and dark
 as the abyss. Torture is despair and fear and rage and hate. It
 is a desire to kill and destroy including yourself. Adriana P. Bartow 11. No violation of any one of the human rights has been the
subject of so many Conventions and Declarations as 'torture'- all
aiming at total banning of it in all forms, but inspite of the
commitments made to eliminate torture, the fact remains that
torture is more widespread now than ever before. "Custodial
torture" is a naked violation of human dignity and degradation
which destroys, to a very large extent, the individual personality. It
is a calculated assault on human dignity and whenever human
dignity is wounded, civilisation takes a step backward-flag of
humanity must on each such occasion fly half-mast. 12. In all custodial crimes what is of real concern is not only
infliction of body pain but the mental agony which a person
undergoes within the four walls of police station or lock-up.
Whether it is a physical assault or rape in police custody, the extent
of trauma, a person experiences is beyond the purview of law. 13. Custodial violence" and abuse of police power is not only
 peculiar to this country but it is widespread. It has been the concern
 of international community because the problem is universal and
 the challenge is almost global. The Universal Declaration of
 Human Rights in 1948, which marked the emergence of a
 worldwide trend of protection and guarantee of certain basic human
 rights, stipulates in Article 5 that "No one shall be subjected to
 torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment."
 Despite the pious declaration, the crime continues unabated, though
 every civilised nation shows its concern and takes steps for its
 eradication." 33. If a conjoint reading of the judgment of Shafhi Mohd. (Supra)
and that of D.K. Basu vs. State of West Bengal (Supra ), are taken into
consideration, they were based upon all altogether a different set of
circumstances intended and aimed to meet a particular contingency by
adopting the measures of videography, in an effort for an in house control
of affairs of police atrocities, for example in the prison, lockups, as well as,
police station, which rather had intended to postulate to protect a human
right. These judgments will have no implications or bearing, so far in the
circumstances of the present case is concerned, where the a random
checking, on the basis of the receipt of information of Narcotic, being
unauthorizedly carried by the accused was apprehended by the police team,
at a public place and that too in the night hours of the day, where
practically, it would not be possible to adopt the suggestions of
videographying, the search and seizure, which according to the contention
of learned counsel for the applicant was mandatory, as per the said ratio,
which I have already considered and recorded my reasons were only
suggestions to be adopted by way of policy to ensure the protection of
human rights at Police Station, Prison, Lockups etc. 34. This Court has already discussed the judgment of Ashok
Chauhan (Supra) as reported in (2018) 2 U.D 191, if said judgment is taken
into consideration, it was a case which was dealing with the recovery of
charas and the principles for adherence of Section 50 (1) NDPS Act, was 25 being sought to be extracted in the facts and circumstances of that case, on
the basis of the implications of the judgment reported in (2011) 1 Supreme
Court Cases 609 Vijaysinh Chandubha Jadeja vs. State of Gujarat and
(2002) 2 Supreme Court Cases 281 Verman Narayan Ghiya vs. State of
Rajasthan, the reference of which finds place in para 8 and para 6 of the
said judgment. The wider principles given therein in para 8 of the
judgment was in the light of the judgment of (2002) 2 Supreme Court Cases 281, Vaman Narayan Ghiya vs. State of Rajasthan , which is
extracted hereunder:- Bail may thus be regarded as a mechanism whereby the State
 devolutes upon the community the function of securing the
 presence of the prisoners, and at the same time involves
 participation of the community in administration of justice. 7. Personal liberty is fundamental and can be circumscribed only by
 some process sanctioned by law. Liberty of a citizen is undoubtedly
 important but this is to balance with the security of the community.
 A balance is required to be maintained between the personal liberty
 of the accused and the investigational right of the police. It must
 result in minimum interference with the personal liberty of the
 accused and the right of the police to investigate the case. It has to
 dovetail two conflicting demands, namely, on one hand, the
 requirements of the society for being shielded from the hazards of
 being exposed to the mis-adventures of a person alleged to have
 committed a crime; and on the other, the fundamental cannon of
 criminal jurisprudence, viz, the presumption of innocence of an
 accused till he is found guilty. Liberty exists in proportion to
 wholesome restrain, the more restraint on others to keep off from
 us, the more liberty we have. 8. The law of bail, like any other branch of law, has its own
 philosophy, and occupies an important place in the administration
 of justice and the concept of bail emerges from the conflict between
 the police power to restrict liberty of a man who is alleged to have
 committed a crime, and presumption of innocence in favour of the
 alleged criminal. An accused is not detained in custody with the
 object of punishing him on the assumption of his guilt. 11. While considering an application for bail, detailed discussion of
 the evidence and elaborate documentation of the merits is to be
 avoided. This requirement stems from the desirability that no party
 should have the impression that his case has been pre-judged.
 Existence of a prima facie case is only to be considered. Elaborate
 analysis or exhaustive exploration of the merits is not required.
 (See Niranjan Singh and Anr. v. Prabhakar Rajram Kharote
 and Ors. AIR 1980 SC 785). Where the offence is of serious
 nature the question of grant of bail has to be decided keeping in
 view the nature and seriousness of the offence, character of the
 evidence and amongst others the larger interest of the public. 35. In fact, it laid down the parameters, as to at the stage when the
bail application is being considered, for a detailed discussion of the
evidence and elaborate merit consideration of the document, has been
postulated to be avoided. But that cannot be a situation, which could be
made applicable in the present case; particularly when the counsel
himself, has invited the Court, and called upon it to answer the
authorities on which he wants to place reliance in support of pressing
his bail application. Though being conscious of the fact that the exercise
of powers under Section 439 of Cr.P.C., is discretionary in nature but then 27 to this Court cannot be oblivious of the fact that the principles of
adjudication, that if the counsel makes a reference to a judgment in support
of his case, irrespective of the nature of case, being a application for bail
even, thereto it is duty bound to consider, as to whether those principle
would apply or not, as it has been laid down in Verman Narayan Ghiya
(Supra) case. Thus this Court was bound to consider the authorities relied
by the applicant's counsel for the purposes of considering its applicability,
in the present case and its circumstances at the stage of consideration of
bail. 36. The counsel for the applicant had further made reference to a
judgment, which had been reported in (2021) 1 Supreme Court Cases 184
Paramvir Singh Saini vs. Baljit Singh and Ors. which yet again, was
widely based upon the principles of D.K. Basu's case of 1997 (supra);
where while dealing with the impact of Article 21 of the Constitution of
India, for the purposes of protection of fundamental and human rights of
the citizen, where the installation of the videography system and CCTV
cameras was mandated to be made essential inside the Police Station,
Prison and Lockups and that is why the Hon'ble Apex Court in the said
judgment, had postulated once again mandated that efforts should be made
for maintenance of the CCTV cameras, which are to be installed and that
of the SHO of the respective police stations and that is what has been dealt
with while extracting the observations made from Shafhi Mohd.'s
judgment Paramvir Singh Saini (supra) in para 5 of the said judgment ,
which is quoted hereunder:- 37. The counsel for the applicant has drawn the attention of
this Court to para 21 and 22 of the said judgment of Paramvir Singh Saini (supra) which are quoted hereunder:- 38. In fact, once again, it is reiterated that the directives contained
therein for installation or the necessity of the investigating agencies for the
enforcement of the CCTV coverage of recording of the proceedings, are in
the police station, from the view point of the protection of the human
rights, in fact it was yet again only a directive which were given for
resorting to the process of installation of the technology mechanism in the
respective police stations and it was specifically not dealing with the
circumstances, as it is identically involved consideration in the present case
where the applicant was apprehended by the police team at Malak Chungi,
Haridwar Road, near Laksar Bus Stop, but where it may not be feasibly
possible to have a videography in all cases and the coverage of the seizure
and recovery and particularly in the NDPS, case where the informations
are received at the very fag end. 39. The counsel for the applicant had made reference, to number of
other judgments for example as that reported in (2015) 7 Supreme Court Cases 178, Tomaso Bruno vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and particularly he
has made reference to para 26, 27 and 28 of the said judgment , which are
extracted below:- 40. With all due reverence at my command, this Court is not in
agreement for complying the said principle in the present case for the
reason being that the said judgment was considering, the implications of
the provisions contained under Section 114 (iii)(g) of the Evidence Act,
with regards to the accessibility of the investigating agency, for the
purpose of recording the CCTV footage and call records, in the light of the
principle of the provisions contained under Section 65-A , 65-B and 65-E of the Evidence Act. This was a case where the person, who was being
tried, was for an offence under Section 302 IPC. In that eventuality, it is
always the investigation, which was or is being carried after the occurrence
or after its reporting of the incident and there at the stage of investigation,
the CCTV footage and the collection of the call records and mobile details,
has been postulated to be made as one of an essential instruments, for
arriving at a rightful conclusion, while trying a person for the aforesaid
offence. This may not be an identical, example or a situation which could
be applied over here, in the present case; because if the scrutiny of the para
25 of the said judgment of Tomaso Bruno and another (supra) is made
where the implications of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act was under Hence, in that eventuality where a fact stands admitted particularly,
because of the endorsement which was made by him in the recovery memo
and also on account of the statement, which was recorded by the C.O.
under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. and particularly that too when there is no
pleading to the effect, as to what was the motive for the police authorities
to falsely implicate the present applicant, and there was no apparent defect
pointed out by the applicant, that at the time when the confiscated articles
was taken in possession, there was any procedural flaw committed by the
police party under Section 50 of the NDPS Act. The non production of the
videography, which was obviously not there and non production of CDR at
this stage, this Court is intentionally refraining itself to make any
observation with regards to its impact, on the ultimate adjudication to be
made by the NDPS Court, which is to be gone into by the trial court; but
that exclusively in itself cannot be taken as to be a reason for considering
the bail application, particularly when it is an admitted case, the
contraband recovered from the possession of the applicant was beyond the
commercial quantity as per Entry 169 of the NDPS Act and hence, as per
the opinion of this Court the bar of Section 37 of the Act would come into
play to be made applicable. 42. Another main aspect on which the learned counsel for the applicant
had made reference to, is in the light of the judgment reported in (2012) 7
Supreme Court Cases 719 Union of India vs. Mohan Lal and others ,
where the Hon'ble Apex Court was dealing with the provisions of Section 32 52(A) , to be read with Section 8 / 18 (b) , to be read with Section 29 of the
NDPS Act, in the said judgment has specifically dealt with the procedure
which was expected to be adopted for the purposes of disposal of
hazardous substance which are seized by the police team, which is the
contrabanded Narcotics under the Act and how it has to be disposed of
in the light of the Standing Order No.1/1989 dated 13.06.1989, and yet
again in the aforesaid judgment, it was simplicitor intending to create an
observations made from the view point for the recording of the disposal of
the recovered contraband through videography, has to be recorded in order
to ensure its complete damage and destroyal in order to prohibit its
recirculation amongst its probable consumers and in the society at large,
and that is what has been postulated in the principles enunciated in the said
judgment , as dealt with in para 20 to 25 of the judgment, (which is not
being extracted hereunder for the reason being that it is not relevant under
the circumstances of the present case at the stage of consideration of bail
under Section 439 of Cr.P.C.). Because recording of destroyal of the
recovered contraband under Section 52 A, is a predetermined act which has
been directed to be videographed in order to meet its social objective, to
prevent its re-circulation amongst the consumers of the contraband, where
the knowledge of the act of destroyal, is an act already known and in
knowledge of the authorities. Apart from it the very foundation of the said
judgment , which was dealt in para 1 and 2 of the said judgment was
exclusively confined to "the disposal of the seized drugs, Narcotics and
Psychotropic Substances" which is and has not been the case ever
involved consideration for in the present bail application. An identical
principles had been dealt with in yet another judgment, which was relied
by the counsel for the applicant reported in (2018) 4 Supreme Court Case
334, Union of India vs. Jaroopa Ram and particularly, if we have
reference of paras 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the judgment, it was almost an
identical considering of the implications of Section 8 and 29 of the Act,
where the disposal of bulk quantity of Narcotics, which was recovered and 33 seized in a case was supposed to be destroyed as per the provisions of Section 52 A ( referred above ). 43. In fact, if the said judgment is considered, it engaged the
consideration with regards to the aspects, for the disposal of the bulk
quantity of the contraband, which was postulated that the disposal was
expected to be made in the presence of executive Magistrate, after a due
prior notice to the accused person of such destruction and this was a case
where a judgment under consideration was a judgment of confession,
which is not the case at hand, which would be made applicable in the
circumstances of the present case at this stage of bail, where still the trial
is pending consideration and no final adjudication, has yet been made after
application of evidence. 44. In extension of his aforesaid argument, the learned counsel for
the applicant in fact in principle wanted to contemplate and get findings
recorded by this Court that when a particular legislature under, which an
action is being taken, is penal in nature, it has had to be procedurally
strictly construed and for the said purpose he had made a reference to a
judgment reported in (2018) 2 Supreme Court Case 158 (Though under
the taxing and laws) Deputy Commissioner Income Tax vs. M/S Ace
Multi Axes Systems Ltd and particularly he has made reference to para 20
of the said judgment which is extracted hereunder:- 45. The provisions of a penalty contemplated under a Taxing Law,
which is exclusively a law governing a personal field of violation of
Taxing Laws, where the penalty is contemplated under the Act, would not
be attracted in the light of the circumstances of the present case, where the
offence complaint of against the present applicant, is a social offence
which was anticipated and expected to create a menace in the society by
the sale of drugs to the students, which was confessed by the applicant and
hence the principles of the judgment of Deputy Commissioner Income Tax
(Supra) which was based upon another judgment of the Hon'ble Apex
Court reported in (2005) 1 Supreme Court Cases 368 Bajaj Tempo
Limited vs. CIT , will not apply in the present case, because the two fields
of law that is "taxing law" and the "laws of Narcotics", cannot be kept at 35 a common pedestal, as it has been sought to be referred to by the counsel
for the applicant in the light of the observations made in sub para 26 of
para 20 the said judgment . 46. As far as the circumstances of the present case is concerned
and as quite elaborately, this Court has already dealt with the arguments,
which had been extended by the counsel for the present applicant, few
apparent facts are:- iv. That to, when the applicant has been taking a somersaulted stand and
 in distinction, of the various stages, where the bail application was
 being considered by the courts and particularly that to by way of
 supplementary affidavit which was filed by the applicant developing
 the case of animosity with Jahid Ali, whom the applicant alleges to
 be a drug peddler and since he was got arrested, on a complaint of
 his father, the present case has been developed against him with a
 malice. The case which cannot be believed at this stage, particularly
 as there is no material on record and it was developed by the 36 applicant for the first time by way of supplementary affidavit before
 the High Court. v. Even let us for the time being presumed for the sake of argument that
 on the complaint of the applicant's father, Jahid Ali, the drug peddler
 was arrested, it cannot be ruled out that the present applicant and the
 other drug peddlers that is Jahid Ali and Parvej, were indulged in
 commercially dealing with the Narcotics and particularly in the
 instant case, when recovery is beyond the commercial quantity, then
 the provisions of Section 37 of the NDPS Act, would come into play,
 which is quoted hereunder:- 47. Section 37 of the NDPS Act, poses a restriction on the courts
while considering the bail application in those cases where the recovery of
the contraband is beyond the commercial quantity. Hence, on an over all
scrutiny of the case as mentioned above, this Court extracts the
implications of Sub Section (1) of Section 37 and I am of the view that this 37 is not a fit case in which the bail could be granted. Consequently, the bail
application stands rejected. (Sharad Kumar Sharma, J.)
 08.06.2021
Arti