L. NAGESWARA RAO, J. The Appellants in the above appeals along with

 Dharmender @ Bunty were found guilty of abduction and

 murder of Ramesh Jain. They were convicted and sentenced

 for life imprisonment. Their conviction and sentence was

 confirmed by the High Court. Accused Dharmender @ Bunty

 did not file an appeal before this Court. Accused Rampal was

 convicted under Section 328 read with 201 IPC and was

 sentenced to 7 years imprisonment. His conviction was also Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by confirmed by the High Court which is not assailed before us. NEETU KHAJURIA Date: 2017.07.19 16:06:42 IST Reason: 1 2. Dinesh Jain (PW-1) approached the SHO, Ganaur Police

Station (PW 31) at 01:30 pm on 26.12.2005 with a complaint

that his father was missing on the basis of which FIR was

registered by PW 31. As per the FIR, Dinesh Jain left the rice

mill at 7:00 pm on 25.12.2005 and went home while his father

stayed back. As his father did not reach home even at 10:00

pm, he called his father’s mobile number and found it to be

switched off. He went to the rice mill and enquired about the

whereabouts of his father from Radhey, the Chowkidar and was

informed that his father left the rice mill at 9:30 pm on his

motor cycle bearing Registration No. DL-8-SY-4510. He along

with his family members searched for his father but could not

trace him. He apprehended that his father might have been

kidnapped. 3. After registration of the FIR, PW 31 started investigation

by visiting the rice mill and making inquiries. On 28.12.2005

one motor cycle was recovered from a pit near Bai crossing. As

the number plate of the vehicle was blurred, PW31 verified the

engine number, compared it with the registration certificate to

find that the seized motor cycle belonged to Ramesh Jain. 4. On 09.01.2006, Dinesh Jain (PW 1) and Ashok Jain (PW 3)

informed PW 31 that a call was received on the mobile phone

of PW 1 from a person who identified himself as Bunty and who 2 was speaking in Bihari dialect. He informed them that Ramesh

Jain was in his custody and demanded a ransom of Rs.1 crore

for his release. They were also asked to purchase another

mobile phone having Delhi network to which future calls would

be made. The Investigating Officer (PW31) visited the rice mill

belonging to deceased Ramesh Jain on 17.01.2006 and met PW

1, PW3 and Dhir Singh (PW 7). They handed over four

threatening letters (Exh.P 1 to P 4), one key ring (Exh.P 9), one

silver ring having a precious stone (Exh.P 10) and a piece of

cloth of a shirt worn by the deceased on 25.12.2005 when he

was kidnapped (Exh.P11). PW 1 and PW 3 informed the

Investigating Officer that Bunty called them and told them that

they would find the key ring, silver ring, a piece of cloth and

cuttings of newspaper near Bai crossing. They collected the

said articles from Bai crossing. 5. The Investigating Officer along with SHO Special Cell,

Rohini, Delhi constituted three raiding parties on 20.01.2006 on

the basis of information that the accused would visit Tibetan

Market. Pawan (A1), Surender (A2) and Dharmender @ Bunty

(A3) were arrested at 11:45 pm when they visited the Tibetan

Market, Delhi in a Maruti car. Their mobile phones and some

cash were recovered from them. 6. On 22.01.2006, Amar @ Sonu (A5) and Parveen (A4) were 3 arrested near the bus stand at Ganaur Chowk, GT Road,

Ganaur. Two mobile phones were seized from Sonu (A5).

Parveen @ Titu (A4) suffered a disclosure statement during the

course of investigation that Ramesh Jain was abducted and a

demand of Rs. 1 crore was made from his family members for

his release. Parveen (A4) stated that Ramesh Jain was

murdered and his dead body was buried at Baba Rude Nath

temple in village Kheri Khusnam. In his disclosure statement,

Surender (A2) further disclosed that Dr. Rampal administered

injections to keep Ramesh Jain unconscious. He further

disclosed that Ramesh Jain was murdered on 29.12.2005 and

his dead body was buried in a pit at Baba Rude Nath temple.

Dharmender @ Bunty (A3) and Surender (A2) also suffered

disclosure statements in which they stated that they can

identify the place where Ramesh Jain was murdered and buried. 7. The Investigating Officer was led by Parveen (A4),

Dharmender (A3) and Surender (A2) to Baba Rude Nath temple

in village Kheri Khusnam on 22.01.2006. The room in which

Ramesh Jain was confined and murdered was pointed out by A2

to A4. The dead body of Ramesh Jain was exhumed from the

place identified by A2 and A4. PW1, PW3, PW6 along with

PW11 Jai Chand, SDM were present at the spot from where the

dead body of Ramesh Jain was taken out from the pit. 4 8. On 24.01.2006, a disclosure statement was made by

Parveen (A4) pursuant to which he identified the place where

the key ring of the motor cycle, threatening letters and a ring

of deceased Ramesh Jain were placed near a sign board at the

crossing of village Bai. He further disclosed that he concealed

another ring of Ramesh Jain at his house in village Ghasoli at a

place which he can only identify. Parveen led the police party

to the place where he concealed the golden ring of the

deceased which was identified by PW1 and recovered through

memo Exh.PT/5. Dharmender @ Bunty (A3) led the police

party to a rented room situated at Shashtri Park, Delhi from

where the SIM card of mobile No. 9896351091 belonging to

deceased Ramesh Jain was recovered from a concealed place.

Pursuant to a disclosure statement, he also identified the place

where the motor cycle of deceased was thrown after he was

abducted. On 30.01.2006, Sonu @ Amar suffered a disclosure

statement to the effect that he had concealed the wallet of

Ramesh Jain and certain documents like PAN card, diary, three

electricity bills, two water bills and his photographs underneath

the seat of his shop which were exclusively in his knowledge.

The said documents were seized by the Investigating Officer

from the shop belonging to Sonu @ Amar (A5). The registration

certificate of the motor cycle of deceased Ramesh Jain was 5 recovered from a drawer of the table in the house situated at

Begha Road, Ganaur which was occupied by Pawan (A1)

pursuant to a disclosure statement by him. A country made

pistol with two live cartridges were recovered from the same

room situated at Begha Road on the basis of disclosure

statement made by Surender (A2). 9. Dr. Ram Pal (A6) surrendered in the Court of Sub Divisional

Judicial Magistrate (SDJM), Ganaur on 01.02.2006. He suffered

a disclosure statement on the basis of which a syringe which

was used for giving injections to keep the deceased

unconscious was seized from the roof of Baba Rude Nath

temple, village Kheri Khusnam. A spade was also recovered

from underneath a cot in his house on the basis of his

disclosure statement. 10. The Investigating Officer collected the Call Detail Records

(CDRs) of all the mobile phones that were recovered from the

accused, mobile phones of the deceased and Dinesh Jain (PW 1) from the Nodal officers of the mobile companies. 11. Accused Manish (A7) who is a cousin of Sonu (A5)

surrendered on 12.04.2006 in the Court of SDJM, Ganaur. He is

alleged to have assisted A5 in the abduction. He was acquitted

by the Trial Court which was confirmed by the High Court which

remains unchallenged. The accused were tried for offences 6 punishable under Section 120 B, 364 A, 302, 328 A and 201

read with 120 B of the Indian Penal Code . In addition, A2 was

also charged for committing an offence under Section 25 of the

Arms Act. The Additional Sessions Judge, Sonepat by his

judgment dated 11.10.2010 convicted A1 to A5 for the

aforesaid offences and sentenced them to life imprisonment.

A6 was convicted under Section 328 and 201 of IPC and

sentenced to seven years. All the convicted accused filed

appeals before the High Court. Dinesh Jain (PW 1) filed an

appeal for enhancement of the sentence of the convicted

appellants. He also challenged the acquittal of accused Manish

(A7). The High Court dismissed all the appeals after a detailed

re-appreciation of the material on record. A1, A2, A4 and A5

have approached this Court by filing appeals against the

confirmation of their conviction and sentence. 12. We have carefully examined the entire material on record

and the judgments of the Trial Court and the High Court. The

Trial Court relied on the testimonies of PW1 and PW3, the

recoveries made pursuant to the disclosure statements of the

accused and the CDRs of the mobile phones of the accused,

the deceased and PW 1 to conclude that the prosecution

established that the accused are guilty beyond reasonable

doubt. The Trial Court also discussed the complicity of each of 7 the accused threadbare. The High Court re-appreciated the

evidence and placed reliance on the disclosure statements, the

consequential recoveries and the CDRs of the mobile phones to

confirm the findings of the Trial Court. 13. Ramesh Jain left his rice mill at 9:30 pm on 25.12.2005.

His dead body was exhumed from the premises of the temple

in village Kheri Khusnam on the intervening night of

22/23.01.2006. The post mortem examination was conducted

by Dr. Pankaj Jain (PW16) on 23.01.2006. He deposed that the

process of decomposition was in progress. The skin was

peeled off at most places. A muffler was present around the

neck of the dead body. Both wrists and ankles were tied by a

piece of cloth. The hyoid bone was found fractured. In the

opinion of PW 16, Ramesh Jain died of asphyxia. The probable

time of death, according to him, was 3/4 weeks prior to

23.01.2006. He also deposed that the process of

decomposition would be slower during winter. Dinesh Jain

(PW1) deposed that there was a demand of ransom of Rs.1

crore for the release of his father which was made through a

telephone call on 06.01.2006 from a person who identified

himself as Bunty and who was speaking in Bihari dialect. He

also spoke of the calls that were made from the mobile phone

bearing No. 9896351091 belonging to his father on 08.01.2006 8 and 09.01.2006 by which the ransom demands were repeated.

He further stated about the threatening letters received by him

at his shop address. He also deposed that he collected a piece

of shirt worn by his father on the day of his abduction along

with one silver ring and a key ring of the motor cycle of his

father at a place specified in a call received by him on

16.01.2006. He was present when the dead body of his father

was being taken out and he video-graphed the exhumation.

Ashok Jain (PW3) who is the brother of deceased Ramesh Jain,

corroborated the evidence of PW1 regarding the demands that

were made for payment of ransom for the release of Ramesh

Jain. 14. The arrest of A1 to A3 from Tibetan Market, Delhi at 11:45

pm on 20.01.2006 led to several disclosure statements made

by the accused pursuant to which relevant material was

recovered. The details of recoveries made from each of the

accused will be discussed later. The dead body of the

deceased Ramesh Jain was also recovered pursuant to a

disclosure statement made by A2 to A4. The CDRs that were

obtained from the Nodal officers of the telephone companies

which were exhibited in the Court without objection clearly

prove the complicity of all the accused. A detailed and

thorough examination of the number of calls that were made 9 between the accused during the period 25.12.2005 to

20.01.2006 was made by the Courts below to hold the accused

guilty of committing the offences. We do not see any reason to

differ from the conclusions of the Courts below on the basis of

the evidence available on record. Neither do we see any

perversity in the reasons and the conclusion of the Courts

below. The jurisdiction of this Court in criminal appeals filed

against concurrent findings is circumscribed by principles

summarised by this Court in Dalbir Kaur v. State of Punjab ,

(1976) 4 SCC 158 ¶ 8, as follows: They are as under: (See: Shanti Devi v. State of Rajasthan , (2012) 12
 SCC 158 ¶10); (See also: Hanumant v. State of
 Madhya Pradesh ( 1952) SCR 1091 (P.1097) Sharad
 Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4
 SCC 116 ¶153). 16. Applying the above principles to the facts of this case, we

find that the following circumstances would lead to the

conclusion of guilt against the accused: F. The silver ring, key ring of the motor cycle and a
 piece of cloth worn by the deceased on
 25.12.2005 which were sent to PW1 by the
 accused. 17. We deem it proper to consider the submissions made by

the learned counsel for the accused. A1 - Pawan (Criminal Appeal No.1416 of 2013) 18. The registration certificate of motor cycle No.

DL-8-SY-4510 of the deceased was recovered from A1 pursuant

to the disclosure statement Exh.PDD. The registration

certificate was recovered from the drawer of a table lying in the 12 room of his house situated at Begha Road, Ganaur. 19. Mr. D. B. Goswami, learned counsel appearing for A1

submitted that A1 and A4 are brothers. A4 and A2 were

partners in transport business. He submitted that A1 was

arrested from his house in his village Ghasoli, District Sonepat.

He relied upon the evidence of DW 2 and DW 5 in support

thereof. DW2 and DW 5 who are residents of village Ghasoli

deposed that police personnel visited the village around 9 am

in search of Parveen (A4) on 20.01.2006. They stated that A1

accompanied the police to the police station. He travelled in

his own car and the police went in the Govt. Jeep. On the other

hand, the case of the prosecution is that A1 was arrested along

with A2 and A3 at 11:45 PM on 20.01.2006 at Tibetan Market,

Delhi. The police from Rohini Police Station, Delhi were also

involved in the raid pursuant to which A1 was arrested. The

interested testimonies of DW2 and DW5 do not merit

acceptance, especially when the prosecution has proved the

arrest and the subsequent recoveries made pursuant to the

disclosure statement of A1. The learned counsel submitted

that the application filed by A1 to take his voice sample was

rejected by the Trial Court and so he cannot be found fault with

for not giving his voice sample. A1 refused to give his voice

sample when the prosecution moved the Court. Thereafter, A1 13 filed an application to take his voice sample and the said

application was disposed of by the Trial Court giving liberty to

A1 to file again after the prosecution evidence was completed.

Therefore, the learned counsel for A1 is wrong in contending

that his application for giving voice samples was rejected by

the Court. The learned counsel further submitted that the

CDRs of the mobile phone of A1 would suggest that he was

making calls only to A2, A3 and A4. He made an attempt to

justify the calls on the ground that A4 was his brother and A2

was his brother’s partner. No justification has been given for

the 28 calls between him and A3 who is from Bihar and who

was making the calls demanding a ransom of Rs.1 crore from

PW 1. A2 - Surender (Criminal Appeal No.1652 of 2014) 20. A2 was arrested on 20.01.2006 in Tibetan Market, Delhi

along with A1 and A3 and was found to be in possession of a

mobile phone bearing No.9813091701 which was used by him

for conversing with A1, A3 and A4 between 25.12.2005 to

20.01.2006. Three STD booth receipts Exh.P41, P42 and P43

were recovered from A2. These receipts showed calls being

made to mobile No. 9896001906 which belongs to A5 Sonu. He

was a resident of Jhinjhana village and the calls made from the

STD booth with telephone No. 01398257974 pertain to 14 Jhinjhana. An amount of Rs.20,000/- was also recovered from

him at the time of his arrest. The said amount was supposed to

have been given to him by A5 Sonu. Pursuant to his disclosure

statement Exh.PCC A2 led the police party to his rented

accommodation at Begha Road, Ganaur and a country made

pistol with two live cartridges .315 bore were recovered in the

presence of PW5 Mohan Lal. He also identified the place of

abduction of Ramesh Jain at Ganaur and the place where the

dead body was buried at Baba Rude Nath temple in village

Kheri Khusnam. Mr. Ram Lal Roy, learned counsel for A2

doubted the recovery of the country made pistol and

cartridges. He submitted that the dead body recovered on

22.01.2006 is that of a priest and not of Ramesh Jain. There is

no foundation laid by the defence in support of this contention.

There is nothing on record to prove that the dead body is that

of a priest. We are of the opinion that the dead body is that of

Ramesh Jain as identified by his relatives. The medical

evidence shows that the skin was peeled off at several places

but the features of the body could easily be made out. PW 16

also deposed that decomposition is slow in winter months. We

have perused the photograph of Ramesh Jain and compared it

with a photograph of the dead body recovered. We are

convinced that the body recovered is that of the deceased 15 Ramesh Jain. A4 - Parveen @ Titu (Criminal Appeal No.1653 of 2014) 21. The STD booth receipt Exh. P44 showing a call made from

STD booth having No. 01398257974 from Shamli village in

Uttar Pradesh was recovered from A4 at the time of his arrest

on 22.01.2006. As per the receipt, a call was made to mobile

No.9896001906 which belongs to Sonu (A5). Pursuant to the

disclosure statement made by him, he identified the place at

village Bai crossing on GT Road where he kept the key ring of

motor cycle, silver ring belonging to deceased Ramesh Jain and

the threatening letters. A golden ring of the deceased was

also recovered from his residential house at village Ghasoli. He

also made a disclosure statement which led the police to the

place where the deceased was wrongfully confined. His SIM

card with mobile No. 9812016269 was seized from his

residential house. There is sufficient evidence on record to

suggest that he was in constant touch with the other accused.

His mobile phone and the recoveries that were made pursuant

to the disclosure statement would clearly prove his

involvement in the crime. A5 - Sonu (Criminal Appeal No.1418 of 2013) 22. Mr. Sidharth Luthra, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

A5 submitted that it is highly improbable that A5 was arrested 16 at a bus stop at Ganaur Chowk, GT Road, Ganaur. According to

him, A5 was arrested on 20.01.2006 at 10:15(30) pm from his

house. He relied upon the evidence of DW5 and DW8. We do

not find any substance in the submission that A5 was arrested

on 20.01.2006 itself as it is clear from the testimony of DW8

that no complaint was made regarding the forcible arrest of A5

on 20.01.2006. A disclosure statement was made by A5 which

was marked as Exh.PBB pursuant to which there was a

recovery of the wallet belonging to the deceased from the shop

of A5. A laminated PAN card, one passport size photograph of

the deceased, three electricity bills, two water bills and a small

diary of Jain Mantras bearing title ‘Aanu Purvi’ were recovered

from underneath the seat of his Aarat shop at Ganaur Mandi.

The STD booth receipts which were recovered from A2

Surender and A4 Parveen at the time of their arrest show that

they made calls on the mobile No.9896001906 belonging to A5

on 29th and 30th December, 2005. A5 also received a call from

an STD booth in Patna on 06.01.2006. Pursuant to a disclosure

statement made by him an Indica car bearing No. DL-3CW-2447

which was used in the abduction was seized. The recoveries

made pursuant to the disclosure statements of A5 cannot be

relied upon, according to Mr. Luthra. He referred to the six

disclosure statements made by A5 between 22.01.2006 and 17 04.02.2006. He commented upon the improbability of recovery

of the wallet from underneath his seat at his shop. He also

submitted that the recovery is from a public place accessible to

everybody and so the recoveries made cannot be relied upon.

We disagree with Mr. Luthra as the recovery of the wallet from

underneath his seat is something which is to his exclusive

knowledge though other people might have access to his shop. 23. Mr. Luthra contended that the CDRs are not admissible

under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 as

admittedly they were not certified in accordance with

sub-section (4) thereof. He placed reliance upon the

judgment of this Court in Anvar P.V. v. P.K. Basheer , (2014)

10 SCC 473 by which the judgment of this Court in State

(NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu , (2005) 11 SCC 600 was

overruled. In Navjot Sandhu (supra) this court held as

follows: In Anvar’s case, this Court held as under: Therefore, the same cannot be admitted in evidence.
 Thus, the whole case set up regarding the corrupt
 practice using songs, announcements and speeches fall
 to the ground.”

In view of the law laid down in the case of Anvar, Mr. Luthra

submitted that the CDRs are liable to be eschewed from

consideration. 24. Mr. Vivek Sood, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

State of Haryana submitted that the CDRs were adduced in

evidence without any objection from the defence. He

submitted that the accused cannot be permitted to raise the

point of admissibility of the CDRs at the appellate stage. He

placed reliance on Padman v. Hanwanta , AIR 1915 PC 1 in 19 which the Privy Council held that objections regarding

admissibility of a document must be raised in the Trial Court.

Mr. Sood contended that there can be two classes of objections

regarding admissibility of documents. The first class is that a

document is per se inadmissible in evidence. The second is

where the objection is regarding the method or mode of the

proof of the document. He submitted that the objection of the

accused in this case is regarding the mode or method of proof

as it cannot be said that the CDRs are per se inadmissible in

evidence. 25. Refuting the contentions of the learned senior counsel for

the State, Mr. Luthra submitted that the objection raised by him

pertains to inadmissibility of the document and not the mode of

proof. He urged that the CDRs are inadmissible without the

certificate which is clear from the judgment of this Court in

Anvar’s case. He refers to the judgment of RVE

Venkatachala Gounder v. Arulmigu Visweswaraswami ,

(2003) 8 SCC 752 relied upon by the prosecution to contend

that an objection relating to admissibility can be raised even at

the appellate stage. Mr. Luthra also argued that proof required

in a criminal case cannot be waived by the accused. He relied

upon a judgment of the Privy Council in Chainchal Singh v.

King Emperor , AIR 1946 PC 1 in which it was held as under: 20 26. That an electronic record is not admissible unless it is

accompanied by a certificate as contemplated under Section

65B (4) of the Indian Evidence Act is no more res integra. The

question that falls for our consideration in this case is the

permissibility of an objection regarding inadmissibility at this

stage. Admittedly, no objection was taken when the CDRs

were adduced in evidence before the Trial Court. It does not

appear from the record that any such objection was taken even

at the appellate stage before the High Court. In Gopal Das v.

Sri Thakurji , AIR 1943 PC 83, it was held that: 27. It is nobody’s case that CDRs which are a form of

electronic record are not inherently admissible in evidence.

The objection is that they were marked before the Trial Court

without a certificate as required by Section 65B (4). It is clear

from the judgments referred to supra that an objection relating

to the mode or method of proof has to be raised at the time of

marking of the document as an exhibit and not later. The

crucial test, as affirmed by this Court, is whether the defect

could have been cured at the stage of marking the document.

Applying this test to the present case, if an objection was taken

to the CDRs being marked without a certificate, the Court could 23 have given the prosecution an opportunity to rectify the

deficiency. It is also clear from the above judgments that

objections regarding admissibility of documents which are per

se inadmissible can be taken even at the appellate stage.

Admissibility of a document which is inherently inadmissible is

an issue which can be taken up at the appellate stage because

it is a fundamental issue. The mode or method of proof is

procedural and objections, if not taken at the trial, cannot be

permitted at the appellate stage. If the objections to the mode

of proof are permitted to be taken at the appellate stage by a

party, the other side does not have an opportunity of rectifying

the deficiencies. The learned Senior Counsel for the State

referred to statements under Section 161 of the Cr. P.C. 1973 as

an example of documents falling under the said category of

inherently inadmissible evidence. CDRs do not fall in the said

category of documents. We are satisfied that an objection that

CDRs are unreliable due to violation of the procedure

prescribed in Section 65 B (4) cannot be permitted to be raised

at this stage as the objection relates to the mode or method of

proof. 28. Another point which remains to be considered is whether

the accused is competent to waive his right to mode of proof.

Mr. Luthra’s submission is that such a waiver is permissible in 24 civil cases and not in criminal cases. He relies upon a

judgment of the Privy Council in Chainchal Singh’s case in

support of the proposition. The Privy Council held that the

accused was not competent to waive his right. Chainchal

Singh’s case may have no application to the case in hand at

all. In that case, the issue was under Section 33 of the

Evidence Act, and was whether evidence recorded in an earlier

judicial proceeding could be read into, or not. The question

was whether the statements made by a witness in an earlier

judicial proceeding can be considered relevant for proving the

truth or facts stated in a subsequent judicial proceeding. Section 33 of the Evidence Act allows for this inter alia where

the witness is incapable of getting evidence in the subsequent

proceeding. In Chainchal Singh, the accused had not

objected to the evidence being read into in the subsequent

proceeding. In this context, the Privy Council held that in a civil

case, a party can waive proof but in a criminal case, strict proof

ought to be given that the witness is incapable of giving

evidence. Moreover, the judge must be satisfied that the

witness cannot give evidence. Chainchal Singh also held

that: 29. We proceed to deal with the submission of Mr. Luthra that

the ratio of the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shaikh

Farid’s case is not applicable to the facts of this case. It was

held in Shaikh Farid’s case as under: Resultantly, the prosecution was driven to examine
witnesses even when the accused was not interested in
challenging the facts sought to be proved though them.
The inconvenience and the delay was avoidable. 7. Section 294 of the Code is introduced to dispense with
this avoidable waste of time and facilitate removal of
such obstruction in the speedy trial. The accused is now
enabled to waive the said right and save the time. This is
a new provision having no corresponding provision in the
repealed Code of Criminal Procedure . It requires the
prosecutor or the accused, as the case may be, to admit
or deny the genuineness of the document sought to be
relied against him at the outset in writing. On his
admitting or indicating no dispute as to the genuineness,
the Court is authorised to dispense with its formal proof
thereof. In fact after indication of no dispute as to the
genuineness, proof of documents is reduced to a sheer
empty formality. The section is obviously aimed at
undoing the judicial view by legislative process. 8. The preceding Section 293 of the Code also dispenses
with the proof of certain documents. It corresponds
with Section 510 of the repealed Code of Criminal
Procedure . It enumerates the category of documents,
proof of which is not necessary unless the Court itself
thinks it necessary. Section 294 makes dispensation of
formal proof dependent on the accused or the
prosecutor, not disputing the genuineness of the
documents sought to be used against them. Such
contemplated dispensation is not restricted to any class
or category of documents as under section 293, in which
ordinarily authenticity is dependent more on the
mechanical process involved than on the knowledge,
observation or the skill of the author rendering oral
evidence just formal. Nor it is made dependent on the
relative importance of the document or probative value
thereof. The documents being primary or secondary or
substantive or corroborative, is not relevant for 27 attracting Sec. 294 of the Code. Not disputing its
 genuineness is the only solitary test therefor. 9. Now the post-mortem report is also a document as
 any other document. Primary evidence of such a
 document is the report itself. It is a contemporaneous
 record, prepared in the prescribed form, of what the
 doctor has noticed in the course of post-mortem of the
 dead body, while investigation the cause of the death. It
 being relevant, it can be proved by producing the same.
 But production is only a step towards proof of it. It can be
 received in evidence only on the establishment of its
 authenticity by the mode of its proof as provided
 under sections 67 to 71 of the Evidence Act. Section
 294(1) of the Code enables the accused also, to waive
 this mode of proof, by admitting it or raising no dispute
 as to its genuineness when called upon to do so under
 sub-section (1). Sub-section (3) enables the Court to read
 it in evidence without requiring the same to be proved in
 accordance with the Evidence Act . There is nothing
 in Section 294 to justify exclusion of it, from the purview
 of “documents” covered thereby. The mode of proof of it
 also is liable to be waived as of any other document.” 30. Section 294 of the Cr. P.C. 1973 provides a procedure for

filing documents in a Court by the prosecution or the accused.

The documents have to be included in a list and the other side

shall be given an opportunity to admit or deny the genuineness

of each document. In case the genuineness is not disputed,

such document shall be read in evidence without formal proof

in accordance with the Evidence Act . The judgment in Shaikh

Farid’s case is not applicable to the facts of this case and so,

is not relevant. The Effect of Overrule 31. Electronic records play a crucial role in criminal 28 investigations and prosecutions. The contents of electronic

records may be proved in accordance with the provisions

contained in Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act.

Interpreting Section 65B (4), this Court in Anvar’s case held

that an electronic record is inadmissible in evidence without

the certification as provided therein. Navjot Sandhu’s case

which took the opposite view was overruled. 32. The interpretation of Section 65B (4) by this Court by a

judgment dated 04.08.2005 in Navjot Sandhu held the field

till it was overruled on 18.09.2014 in Anvar’s case. All the

criminal courts in this country are bound to follow the law as

interpreted by this Court. Because of the interpretation of

Section 65B in Navjot Sandhu, there was no necessity of a

certificate for proving electronic records. A large number of

trials have been held during the period between 04.08.2005

and 18.09.2014. Electronic records without a certificate might

have been adduced in evidence. There is no doubt that the

judgment of this Court in Anvar’s case has to be retrospective

in operation unless the judicial tool of ‘prospective overruling’

is applied. However, retrospective application of the judgment

is not in the interests of administration of justice as it would

necessitate the reopening of a large number of criminal cases.

Criminal cases decided on the basis of electronic records 29 adduced in evidence without certification have to be revisited

as and when objections are taken by the accused at the

appellate stage. Attempts will be made to reopen cases which

have become final. 33. This Court in IC Golak Nath v. State of Punjab, (1967)

2 SCR 762 held that there is no acceptable reason why it could

not restrict the operation of the law declared by it to the future

and save transactions that were effected on the basis of earlier

law. While referring to the doctrine of prospective overruling as

expounded by jurists George F. Canfield, Robert Hill Freeman,

John Henry Wigmore and Cardozo, this Court held that when a

subsequent decision changes an earlier one, the latter decision

does not make law but rather discovers the correct principle of

law and the result is that it is necessarily retrospective in

operation. As the law declared by this Court is the law of land,

it was held that there is no reason why this Court declaring the

law in supersession of the law declared by it earlier cannot

restrict the operation of the law as declared to the future and

save transactions that were affected on the basis of earlier law.

While so holding, this Court in Golak Nath laid down the

following propositions: (3) The Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951 , Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955 , and, the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964 ,
 abridge the scope of the fundamental rights. But, on the
 basis of earlier decisions of this Court, they were valid.”

While taking note of the doctrine of ‘prospective overruling’ in

the United States, this Court referred to the decisions

concerning the admissibility of evidence obtained by

unreasonable search and seizure. In Weeks v. United

States, 232 U.S. 383 (1914), the US Supreme Court held

that evidence obtained by an unreasonable search and seizure

has to be excluded in criminal trials. In 1949, the US Supreme

Court in Wolf v. Colorado, 338 U. S. 25 (1949) held that the

rule of exclusion laid down in Weeks did not apply to

proceedings in State Courts. The judgment in Wolf was over

ruled in Mapp v. Ohio, 367 U.S. 643 (1961). Subsequently,

the US Supreme Court applied the doctrine of prospective

overruling in Linkletter v. Walker, 381 U.S. 618 (1965) as it

was of the opinion that if Mapp was applied retrospectively it

would affect the interest of the administration of justice and the

integrity of the judicial process. 34. The effect of overrule of a judgment on past transactions 31 has been the subject matter of discussion in England as well. In

R. v. Governor of H.M. Prison Brockhill, ex p. Evans (No. 2), [2000] 4 All ER 15, Lord Slynn dealing with the principle

of prospective over ruling observed as under: 35. This Court did not apply the principle of prospective

overruling in Anvar’s case. The dilemma is whether we

should. This Court in K. Madhav Reddy v. State of Andhra

Pradesh , (2014) 6 SCC 537 held that an earlier judgment

would be prospective taking note of the ramifications of its

retrospective operation. If the judgment in the case of Anvar is

applied retrospectively, it would result in unscrambling past

transactions and adversely affecting the administration of

justice. As Anvar’s case was decided by a Three Judge Bench,

propriety demands that we refrain from declaring that the 32 judgment would be prospective in operation. We leave it open

to be decided in an appropriate case by a Three Judge Bench.

In any event, this question is not germane for adjudication of

the present dispute in view of the adjudication of the other

issues against the accused. 36. For the aforementioned reasons, the judgment of the High

Court confirming the Trial Court is upheld. The appeals are

dismissed. ..……..........................J
 [S. A. BOBDE]

 …................................J
 [L. NAGESWARA RAO]

New Delhi,
July 18, 2017 33