Brief facts of the prosecution case:- Ashish. The inspection report and load report were prepared at the spot.
 An advisory notice was also issued to the accused. Entire set of documents
 prepared at the spot was tendered to the user but the user refused to sign
 and accept the same. The illegal tapping material was removed from the
 site and seized at the spot. Public persons were requested to join the
 inspection proceedings but none agreed. Accused Sonu Choudhary was
 found to be landlady of the inspected premises and co-accused Lalu was
 found to be user/tenant. It is averred that accused Sonu Choudhary being
 owner of the inspected premises, abetted accused Lalu to commit direct
 theft of electricity. The act of the accused Lalu falls within the provision of section 135 / 138 of the Electricity Act and the act of the accused Sonu
 Chaudhary falls within the provisions of section 135 / 138 / 150 of the Act.
 On the basis of inspection, the complainant company assessed the demand
 to the tune of Rs.1,41,792/-. Accordingly following the guidelines of
 DERC, theft bill was raised and sent to the accused persons but they failed

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 2 of 16
 to deposit the said amount. Original CD of the said videography alongwith
 Certificate under section 65B of the Evidence Act was also submitted with
 the complaint. Thus, a prayer was made in the complaint to register an FIR
 against the accused persons U/s 135/138/150 of the Act. 3. The SHO marked the said complaint (Ex.PW2/7) to Duty Officer
 with the direction to register an FIR and hand over the investigation of the
 case to HC Sultan Singh, the IO of the case. The Duty Officer registered
 the present FIR against the accused persons under section 135 / 138 / 150 of
 the Act and handed over the investigation of the case to IO. Thereafter, IO
 visited inspected premises, served the accused Sonu Choudhary with the
 notice U/s 41.1A Cr.P.C . IO interrogated the accused, recorded disclosure
 statement of accused Sonu Choudhary and collected copy of his Aadhar
 Card. During investigation, accused Sonu Choudhary disclosed that at the
 time of raid, co-accused Lalu was residing in the inspected premises as a
 tenant and after raid, said Lalu has vacated the inspected premises and
 went to an unknown place and his whereabouts are not known. IO bound
 down the accused Sonu Choudhary vide pabandinama. Despite efforts, co-
 accused/tenant Lalu could not be traced. After completion of investigation,
 charge-sheet was filed against the accused Sonu Choudhary U/s
 135/138/150 of the Act. 4. On 10.03.2022, notice for the commission of offence U/s 135 r/w section 150 of the Act was given to accused Sonu Choudhary to which he
 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5. In order to prove its case against the accused, the prosecution

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 3 of 16
 examined following witnesses. In order to put the facts in chronological
 order, the testimony of members of inspection team is being discussed
 first:- Entire set of inspection documents was prepared in presence of
 accused/user Lalu and same was tendered to him but he refused to sign
 and accept the same. PW2 further deposed that the illegal wire was
 removed by lineman Sh. Charanjeet Singh and seized at the spot vide
 seizure memo Ex.PW2/4. On the basis of inspection, the theft bill of
 Rs.1,41,791/- (Ex.PW2/6) was raised and sent to accused. Thereafter, on
 19.11.2019, he lodged a complaint (Ex.PW2/7) with the SHO, PS New
 Ashok Nagar for registration of an FIR against the accused. (5.2) PW3 Sh. Pawan Tomar is Diploma Trainee Engineer (DET).
 This witness is another member of the inspection team and he also
 corroborated the testimony of PW2 and deposed on the similar lines of the
 testimony of PW2. He also identified the co-accused/tenant Lalu in the
 video contained in the CD Ex.PW2/1. (5.3) PW4 Sh. Charanjit Singh is the Lineman. This witness is another
 member of the inspection team and he also corroborated the testimony of
 PW2 and deposed on the similar lines of the testimony of PW2 and PW3.
 He also deposed that the illegal wire was removed by him and seized at
 the spot. He also identified the co-accused/tenant Lalu in the video
 contained in the CD Ex.PW2/1. (5.4) PW1 HC Sultan Singh is the IO of the case. This witness
 deposed that on 19.11.2019, on the direction of SHO, the complaint

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 5 of 16
 (Ex.PW2/7) lodged by Sh. S.K. Panchal, DGM BSES YPL, was handed
 over to Duty Officer for registration of an FIR. Accordingly, the Duty
 Officer registered FIR No.563/2019 and marked the investigation of the
 case to PW1 HC Sultan Singh, the IO of the case. The copy of the FIR has
 been brought on record as Ex.PW1/1. Thereafter, on 21.11.2019, he
 visited the spot and prepared site plan Ex.PW1/2. On 23.11.2019, he again
 visited the premises of the accused and recorded disclosure statement of
 accused which is Ex.PW1/3. He also deposed that during interrogation, it
 was revealed that the inspected premises belonged to accused Sonu
 Choudhary at the relevant time and tenant namely Lalu (could not be
 traced) was occupying the inspected premises. However, accused/tenant
 Lalu could not be traced as he has already vacated the premises and went
 to an unknown place. Accused Sonu Choudhary produced copy of his
 Aadhar Card Mark A. Accused Sonu Choudhary was bound down to vide
 Pabandinama Ex.PW1/4. 6. After culmination of prosecution evidence, statement of accused
 Sonu Choudhary was recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C . Accused denied the
 inspection but he did not deny that electricity meter was not available at
 the inspected premises. Accused did not deny that inspected premises
 belongs to him and co-accused Lalu (since not arrested) was his tenant and
 inspected premises was occupied by his tenant Lalu. Accused Sonu
 Choudhary stated that he has settled the matter with the complainant
 company and he has also made the payment and an NOC has been issued.
 Accused opted not to lead any defence evidence. Accordingly opportunity
 to lead defence evidence was closed and matter was listed for final

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 6 of 16
 arguments. 7. Final arguments have been heard from the Ld. Addl. PP for the
 State as well as Ld. Counsel for the accused. During the course of
 arguments, Ld. Addl. PP for the State submitted that at the time of
 inspection, no electricity meter was available at the inspected premises. It
 is also submitted that accused Sonu Choudhary is the owner of the
 inspected premises during relevant time and user/co-accused Lalu was
 tenant in the inspected premises and thus, accused Sonu Choudhary let the
 user/co-accused Lalu to commit direct theft of electricity. It is further
 argued that the complainant company has proved its case against the
 accused beyond reasonable doubt through the testimonies of prosecution
 witnesses. 8. Ld. Defence Counsel, on the other hand, argued that accused is
 innocent and he has been falsely implicated in the present case. Accused
 has not committed any theft of electricity. It is further submitted that
 matter has already been settled with the complainant company and
 settlement amount has already been paid and an NOC has already been
 issued in favour of the accused. 9. Before dealing with the factual aspect of the present case, it is
 deemed appropriate to specify the legal position and relevant provisions of
 the Act which are required to be gone into for appropriate disposal of the
 cases pertaining to section 135 / 150 of Electricity Act. The provisions of section 135 / 150 of the Electricity Act are reproduced as under:- 10. There is a presumption mentioned in the third proviso of Section
 135 (1) of the Electricity Act, 2003 which reads as follows:- 11. As per prosecution case, at the time of inspection, no electricity
 meter was available at the inspected premises and the user/accused Lalu
 (not traceable) was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through
 illegal wires. Accused Sonu Choudhary is the owner of the inspected

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 9 of 16
 premises and user/-co-accused Lalu was tenant in the said premises. Being
 owner of the inspected premises, accused Sonu Choudhary abetted the
 user/accused Lalu to commit direct theft of electricity. Thus, the onus was
 on the prosecution to prove these allegations against the accused persons
 beyond reasonable doubt. 12. PW2 Sh. S.K. Panchal (DGM), PW3 Sh. Pawan Tomar (DET)
 and PW4 Sh. Charanjit Singh (lineman) are the material witnesses in this
 case. They have corroborated the allegations made in the complaint
 Ex.PW2/7 and their testimony is in conformity with the documents i.e.
 inspection report Ex.PW2/2, load report Ex.PW2/3, seizure memo
 Ex.PW2/4 and advisory notice Ex.PW2/5. 13. PW3 Sh. Pawan Tomar (DET) and PW4 Sh. Charanjit Singh
 (Lineman) were also one of the members of the inspection team. They
 have corroborated the testimony of PW2. PW4 also deposed that he
 removed the illegal tapping material from the spot. 14. It is clear from the testimony of PW2, PW3 and PW4 that on
 16.10.2019, at about 7.55 am, an inspection was carried out at the
 premises of accused by the inspecting team members/officials of
 complainant company and at the time of inspection, no electricity meter
 was available and this fact has not been disputed by the accused at all. It is
 further clear from the disclosure statement Ex.PW1/3 as well as testimony
 of PW1 Sultan Singh that the inspected premises belongs to accused Sonu
 Choudhary and co-accused Lalu (since not traced) was residing as a tenant
 in the inspected premises at the time of inspection and this fact has not

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 10 of 16
 been disputed at all by the accused during cross-examination of PW1 as
 well as in his statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C . It is further clear that the
 user/accused was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through
 illegal wires and said illegal wires were removed by the lineman/PW4 Sh.
 Charanjit Singh and the factum of removal of illegal wire by PW4 has not
 been disputed by the accused during cross-examination of PW2, PW3 and
 PW4. the In his statement, accused Sonu Choudhary did not deny that
 there was no electricity meter installed in the inspected premises.
 Inspection proceedings were recorded by videographer Sh. Ashish and CD
 containing videography of the said inspection proceedings was brought on
 record as Ex.PW2/1. Perusal of cross-examination of PW2, PW3 and PW4
 shows that though, the accused endevaoured to dispute the factum of
 inspection, preparation of inspection documents, seizure memo and
 videography of the inspection proceedings, however, he has not
 specifically disputed the factum of preparation of the relevant documents,
 the contents and authenticity of the inspection report and CD containing
 videography of the inspection proceedings. PW2, PW3 and PW4 has
 deposed that inspection documents were prepared at site in presence of co-
 accused Lalu and same were given to him but he refused to sign and
 accept the same and this fact has not been disputed by the accused during
 cross-examination of PW2, PW3 and PW4. Accused has also not
 specifically disputed the genuineness of assessment of load assessed by
 the complainant as mentioned in the load report Ex.PW2/3. During
 evidence, PW2, PW3 and PW4 identified the video recorded by
 videographer Sh. Ashish. Accused has also not disputed the identity of the

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 11 of 16
 inspected premises shown in the video contained in the CD Ex.PW2/1.
 PW2, PW3 and PW4 also identified user/tenant Lalu in the said video and
 accused has not disputed this fact during cross-examination of these
 witnesses. During inspection, PW1 HC Sultan Singh, the IO of the case
 interrogated the accused and recorded his disclosure statement Ex.PW1/3
 in which accused Sonu Choudhary has admitted that after raid in the
 inspected premises, co-accused/his tenant Lalu has vacated the inspected
 premises and went to an unknown place. Thus, inspection proceedings
 conducted at the time of inspection as well as videography of inspection
 proceedings recorded by videographer Sh. Ashish stands proved. 15. PW2, PW3 and PW4 have clearly deposed that accused/user was
 found indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. It is also
 clear from the statement of PW1 as well as document i.e. disclosure
 statement Ex.PW1/3 that inspected premises belongs to accused Sonu
 Choudhary. It is also clear from the statement of PW1 that at the time of
 inspection, co-accused Lalu (could not be traced) was a tenant in the
 inspected premises. In case, accused Sonu Choudhary was unaware that
 co-accused Lalu has committed direct theft of electricity then he ought to
 have brought this fact to the notice of the complainant and he ought to
 have disassociated himself from the said illegal activity of the accused.
 However, it is clear that accused Sonu Choudhary did not take any action
 in this regard against the co-accused and his aforesaid conduct speaks for
 itself that he was well aware of the illegal act of the co-accused Lalu.
 Thus, under these facts and circumstances, it can be very well said that
 once the accused Sonu Choudhary had come to know about the said illegal

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 12 of 16
 activity on the part of the co-accused, he ought to have taken appropriate
 action against him and he was also duty bound to inform the complainant
 about the same, however, he did not do the needful which shows that
 accused Sonu Choudhary was fully aware of the said illegal activity being
 committed by the co-accused. Thus, under these circumstances, it can be
 very well said that accused Sonu Choudhary has abetted the offence of
 direct theft of electricity. Thus, in view of settled provision of section 150 of the Act, the accused Sonu Choudhary being the owner of the inspected
 premises is liable for the offence of abetment as he let the user/tenant Lalu
 (not traceable) commit direct theft of electricity through illegal wire.
 Accused has simply denied the inspection and stated that he was not
 indulged in any type of theft of electricity and that the documents
 regarding the inspection proceedings were not prepared at the spot.
 Accused has not disputed the fact that PW4 removed the illegal wire
 through which the direct theft of electricity was being done by his tenant
 Lalu. During evidence before the court, CD (Ex.PW2/1) containing video
 clip of inspection proceedings was played before the court which depicted
 the manner in which user/accused was indulged in direct theft of
 electricity through illegal wire. 16. In view of the statutory presumption mentioned in the third
 proviso of section 135 (1) of the Act, once the prosecution successfully
 establishes the charges against the accused regarding the theft of
 electricity, it is to be presumed that accused has committed theft of
 electricity unless accused brings some evidence on record to rebut the
 presumption. In view of the discussions made in the preceding paras, it is

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 13 of 16
 held that the prosecution has proved the charges against the accused that
 the user/co-accused Lalu (not arrested) who was tenant of accused, was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity and accused Sonu Choudhary was
 well aware of the same and therefore, in view of the third proviso of section 135 (1) of the Electricity Act 2003, it is to be presumed that
 accused said user/co-accused Lalu (not arrested) was indulged in direct
 theft of electricity, in connivance with accused Sonu Choudhary, if they
 are unable to rebut the statutory presumption. 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case reported as '2001 (6) SCC
 16 titled as Hiten P. Dalal vs Bratindranath Banerjee ' has laid down
 the law related to the rebuttal of statutory presumption. Relevant portion
 of the para no.16 is reproduced as under:- 18. In view of the settled law, now it is to be seen if the accused has
 taken any defence to rebut the presumption existed against him. Accused
 has simply stated in his statement recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C that he is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case. He stated that he has
 already settled the dispute and settlement amount has already been paid by
 him and an NOC has also been issued. Accused did not lead any defence
 evidence. If the co-accused (Lalu) was not indulged in direct theft of
 electricity or that he was using the electricity through any legal means,
 then the accused Sonu Choudhary, who claimed himself to be landlord of
 the inspected premises, was liable to rebut the statutory presumption by

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 14 of 16
 disproving the allegations made in the complaint by leading relevant
 defence evidence. It is admitted position of fact that inspected premises
 was belonging to accused Sonu Choudhary during relevant time, which
 was let out to co-accused Lalu (not traceable). It is clear from the evidence
 led by prosecution that at the time of inspection, co-accused Lalu (not
 arrested) was found indulged in direct theft of electricity and he was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. Accused has not
 brought any material on record or lead any evidence to disprove all these
 allegations. Thus, it is held that accused has failed to rebut the statutory
 presumption. In this regard, this court is supported by the judgment of
 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi reported as 'Mukesh Rastogi vs North
 Delhi Power Limited' 2007 (99) DRJ108. The observations made by
 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi are reproduced as under:- 19. In view of aforesaid discussions, it is held that the prosecution
 has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the user/co-accused Lalu was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. It is also proved

FIR No.563/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 15 of 16
 on record that the inspected premises belongs to accused Sonu Choudhary
 at the time of inspection and he had let out the inspected premises to his
 tenant/user Lalu who was indulged in direct theft of electricity. Thus,
 accused Sonu Choudhary is guilty of abetment of offence of direct theft of
 electricity. Accordingly he is convicted for the offence punishable U/s 135
 r/w section 150 of the Electricity Act 2003. File be taken up again as
 and when user/co-accused Lalu is arrested.