SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The present writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution
 of India read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
 1973 („ Cr.P.C .‟) has been filed on behalf of the petitioner seeking
 quashing of FIR No. 626/2022, registered at Police Station Raj Park,
 Delhi for offences punishable under Sections 376 /506 of the Indian W.P. (CRL). 1192/2024 Page 1 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:52:15 Penal Code, 1860 („ IPC ‟) and Section 67A of the Information and
 Technology Act, 2000 („ IT Act ‟) and all consequential proceedings
 emanating therefrom. 2. Briefly stated, it is the case of the prosecution that on
 22.09.2022 at about 8:30 PM, a complaint was lodged by the
 complainant alleging that a few years back from filing of the present
 complaint, she had found the petitioner/accused i.e., Kamal on
 Instagram and had made her friend. It is alleged that after connecting
 on Instagram, the complainant and the petitioner had exchanged
 phone numbers and had begun chatting regularly, eventually meeting
 up with each other. It is also alleged that on 03.01.2020, when the
 complainant was alone at her house, the petitioner/accused had come
 over and had allegedly forcefully engaged in physical intimacy with
 her, on the false pretext of marriage. It is alleged that this repeated on
 multiple occasions (i.e., on April 10, August 28-30, September 1, in
 December, 2020, as well as on June 15, 2022) and whenever the
 complainant brought up the issue of marriage, the petitioner/accused
 would dodge the topic. It is alleged that the complainant had
 thereafter, discovered that the petitioner/accused herein was already
 married and had a son, yet he continued to exploit the complainant,
 on false pretext of marriage. It is also alleged that when the
 complainant had threatened to report him to the police, the
 petitioner/accused had confessed to having recorded the
 complainant's intimate pictures and videos, and had blackmailed the
 complainant with the threat of sharing those pictures/videos. It is
 further alleged that the petitioner/accused had created fake Instagram W.P. (CRL). 1192/2024 Page 2 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:52:15 accounts with photos of the complainant, posting lewd comments and
 sharing her phone number. It is alleged that the petitioner/accused
 had also physically assaulted the complainant and had threatened her
 with dire consequences. Furthermore, he had constantly started
 messaging and harassing the complainant, blackmailing her with
 video calls and threatening to make her life miserable. Despite the
 complainant's protests, the petitioner had insisted on further physical
 intimacy with him and his friends. It is further alleged that the
 petitioner had made derogatory remarks about the complainant's
 parents and boasted about possessing multiple mobile phones and
 gadgets, claiming he had saved incriminating photographs and videos
 to use against the complainant. On these allegations, the present FIR
 was registered on 22.09.2022. 3. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner argues
 that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present case and
 he had, from the very beginning, told the complainant/respondent no.
 2 about his marriage and his having a child. However, the
 complainant did not have any objection to carrying on a relationship
 with the petitioner and the same is apparent from the WhatsApp chats
 wherein it can be seen that the complainant had wished wife of the
 petitioner on the occasion of their marriage anniversary. It is further
 argued that the petitioner herein was in a consensual relationship with
 the complainant and had no intention either to betray her or to have
 sexual intercourse with her on false promise of marriage. It is stated
 that from a bare perusal of the allegations in the FIR and
 Chargesheet, it is clear that the complainant had called the petitioner W.P. (CRL). 1192/2024 Page 3 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:52:15 at her residence, and thus, her allegations that she had been forced to
 have sexual intercourse with the petitioner in her house cannot be
 sustained. It is also stated that no Call Detail Record ('CDR') has
 been produced by the complainant to support her allegations that the
 petitioner had visited her house on the dates alleged in the FIR and
 chargesheet. Furthermore, the petitioner has also placed on record
 WhatsApp chats between the sister of the petitioner and the
 complainant wherein it can be seen that the complainant had known
 all the family members of the petitioner herein and shared cordial
 relationships with them even before or post-registration of the present
 FIR. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that vide order
 dated 24.11.2022, learned Metropolitan Magistrate-03, North-West,
 Rohini Courts Delhi, had taken cognizance mechanically in the
 above-said case, without recording the reasons and without
 application of mind. It is further submitted that thereafter, the matter
 was committed to the Court of Sessions and is pending trial before
 learned ASJ/FTC, Rohini Courts, Delhi („Trial Court‟). It is also
 argued that the complainant is aged about 21 years and is a graduate
 preparing for competitive examinations, meaning thereby that she
 was well aware of the nitty gritty of their relationship. which further
 establishes that the complainant is mature enough to know such
 things and had this been a forceful relationship, the complainant
 could have reported it on 03.01.2020 itself, as alleged. Therefore, it is
 prayed that the present FIR and all proceedings emanating therefrom
 be quashed. 4. On the other hand, learned ASC for the State, draws this W.P. (CRL). 1192/2024 Page 4 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:52:15 Court's attention to the contents of chargesheet and the statement of
 the complainant and witnesses recorded under Section 161 and 164 of Cr.P.C and argues that the same corroborates with the case of the
 prosecution. It is submitted that the grounds raised in the present
 petition are all matter of trial, and the present case is at an initial
 stage, and thus, the petitioner can raise all these grounds and
 contentions either at the stage of framing of charge or during the
 course of trial. Therefore, it is prayed that the present case be
 dismissed. 5. This Court has heard the arguments advanced by learned
 counsel for the petitioner as well as learned ASC for the State, and
 has perused the material on record. 6. As the petitioner has approached this Court seeking quashing
 of the FIR registered against him alongwith all emanating
 proceedings therefrom, it shall be pertinent to take an overview of the
 principles that govern quashing of FIRs. 7. The Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Neeharika Infrastructure
 v. State of Maharashtra 2021 SCC OnLine 315, after analysing and
 examining several judicial precedents, had culled out the following
 principles governing the law on quashing of an FIR: restraint imposed by law, more particularly the parameters
 laid down by this Court in the cases of R.P. Kapur (supra)
 and Bhajan Lal (supra), has the jurisdiction to quash the
 FIR/complaint; and xv) When a prayer for quashing the FIR is made by the
 alleged accused, the court when it exercises the power under Section 482 Cr.P.C., only has to consider whether or not the
 allegations in the FIR disclose the commission of a
 cognizable offence and is not required to consider on merits
 whether the allegations make out a cognizable offence or not
 and the court has to permit the investigating agency/police to
 investigate the allegations in the FIR." 8. The Hon'ble Apex Court in CBI v. Aryan Singh 2023 SCC
 OnLine SC 379 held that while exercising the powers under Section
 482 of Cr.P.C., the Courts have a very limited jurisdiction and are
 only required to consider "whether any sufficient material is
 available to proceed further against the accused for which the
 accused is required to be tried or not". 9. After going through the case file, the statements of the
 witnesses, the statements of the victim/complainant under Sections
 161 and 164 of Cr.P.C., and the contents of the chargesheet filed in W.P. (CRL). 1192/2024 Page 7 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:52:15 the present case, this Court is of the opinion that there are clear
 allegations levelled by the victim/complainant in her statement
 recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. as well as her complaint which
 culminated in the present FIR, which at this stage, prima facie,
 appears to substantiate her claims. Moreover, the alleged
 conversations between the complainant and the accused, which have
 been produced before this Court by the petitioner, are yet to be
 ascertained as authentic, since the mobile phones of both the
 victim/complainant and the petitioner/accused have been seized and
 sent to FSL and the report is still awaited. 10. Learned ASC for the state has also pointed out that during the
 investigation, it was found that the petitioner herein had in fact
 posted inappropriate and sexually explicit videos of the complainant
 by creating fake IDs on Instagram, on which some friends of his had
 posted dirty comments. It is further noted that there are allegations
 that the petitioner/accused herein had sent the complainant's videos
 and dirty comments to her parents and to her. The said facts can only
 be clarified after the FSL report is received and placed before the
 learned Trial Court. 11. Therefore, at this stage, this Court is of the opinion that no
 ground for quashing of FIR is made out. The contentions raised by
 the petitioner herein are a matter of trial, however, since the FSL
 reports are awaited and charges are yet to be framed in this case, the
 counsel for the petitioner will be at liberty to raise all these
 arguments at the stage of framing of charge before the learned Trial
 Court. 12. In view thereof, the present petition alongwith pending
 application stands dismissed. 13. It is also clarified that nothing expressed hereinabove shall
 tantamount to an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 14. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 APRIL 1, 2024/zp W.P. (CRL). 1192/2024 Page 9 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:52:15