Per B.R. Baskaran (AM) : 2. The assessee is engaged in the business of event management like
conducting shows/concerts/award ceremonies etc. The assessee is part of
Cineyug Group. The revenue carried out search and seizure operations u/s
132 of the Act in the case of Cineyug Group on 25.11.2009. On the very same
day, a survey operation u/s 133A of the Act was conducted on Kusegaon
Fruits & Vegetables. The name of the assessee was changed into Cineyug
Media & Entertainment P Ltd. The name of M/s Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables
was changed into M/s Kusegaon Realty P Ltd. The main promoters of Cineyug
are S/s Karim Morani, Ali Morani and Mohamed Morani. M/s Kusegaon
belongs to "Dynamix Balwas" group company (in short "DB Group"). The main
promoters of DB group are S/Shri Vinod Goenka and Shahid Balwa. 3. During the course of search proceedings, incriminating documents relating
to various events conducted by the assessee were found. The information
given in the website of the assessee about the events organized by them was
also collected. On collation of the details and upon comparison of the same
with the entries made in the books of accounts, the AO noticed that the
assessee has not accounted for certain events, claimed to have been conducted
by it in its website. In some cases, the amount recorded was different from
that one found in the incriminating materials. Hence in AY 2009-10, the AO
made addition towards suppression of receipts to the tune of Rs.5.02 crores.
We shall discuss the details thereof in the ensuing paragraphs. 4. The search operations also revealed that the assessee was part of series of
payments made to M/s K TV, Chennai. During the years 2008 and 2009, a
total sum of Rs.200 crores were seen paid to K TV by Cineyug, the assessee
herein, whose sources were found to be DB reality group of companies. The
monies were routed through M/s Dynamix and M/s Kusegaon to Cineyug,
which, in turn, was paid to K TV. The analysis of the books of accounts
revealed that the assessee herein, M/s Cineyug, has received a sum of
Rs.206.25 crores, i.e., a sum of Rs.28.50 crores was received during the FY 3 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . 2008-09 relevant to AY 2009-10 and the remaining 177.75 crores was received
during the year relevant to AY 2010-11. The transfer of money had taken
place in the following manner:- The AO further noticed that the above cited money transactions were alleged to
be related to 2G spectrum Scam and the entire transactions became subject
matter of criminal investigation by CBI and charge sheets have also been filed. 5. The AO also noticed that the assessee M/s Cineyug has claimed to have
received funds from M/s Kusegaon towards allotment of Shares and ICD.
However, the entries made in the books of accounts of M/s Kusegaon, Cineyug
were showing different picture, i.e., as loans and advances. The AO has
discussed the inconsistencies in a detailed manner in paragraph 17 and 18 of
his order. 6. The AO noticed that the assessee herein has received a sum of Rs.28.50
crores from M/s Kusegaon and the same was used to make payment of
Rs.25.00 crores to M/s K TV. The AO considered the same as transfer of
money by M/s Kusegaon to M/s K TV, wherein the assessee has acted as a
facilitator. Accordingly the difference amount of Rs.3.50 crores (Rs.28.50
crores (-) Rs.25.00 crores) was considered by the AO as facilitation fee received
by the assessee for transfer of funds. Accordingly the AO assessed the above
said amount of Rs.3.50 crores as income of the assessee. 7. Now we shall take up the appeal filed by the assessee for AY 2009-10.
The first issue contested by the assessee relates to the addition of facilitation
fee of Rs.3.50 crores made by the AO. The Ld CIT(A) confirmed the said
addition and hence the assessee is challenging the same. M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . 8. At the time of hearing, the Ld A.R submitted that the impugned addition
has been made by the AO on the basis of allegation made in 2G spectrum
scam and the charge sheets filed by CBI. He submitted that the Special Court
has since relieved the assessee and its directors from all the charges. He
submitted that an identical addition was made in the hands of M/s Kusegaon
Realty P Ltd, from whom the assessee had received funds. When the matter
reached the ITAT, the Tribunal, vide its order dated 17.04.2018 passed in ITA
No.565/Mum/2016 relating to AY 2011-12 has restored the matter back to the
file of the assessing officer for examining the issue afresh, by duly considering
the decision rendered by Special Court. The Ld A.R, accordingly, prayed that
this issue may also be restored to the file of the AO for examining it afresh. 9. The Ld D.R also accepted the factual aspects presented by Ld A.R on this
issue. However, he submitted that Government may be filing appeals against
the orders passed by Special Judge and hence the matter cannot be
considered to have attained finality. 10. We notice that the co-ordinate bench has considered an identical issue
in the case of Kusegaon Realty P Ltd (supra) and has restored the issue to the
file of the AO with the following observations:- Subsequently, the assessee vide letter dated 22.12.2017 requested
 rehearing of the appeals as it wanted to bring on record the orders of ld.
 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi in the trials conducted against the
 assessee under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Prevention of
 Money Laundering Act , which according to the assessee will
 have crucial bearing on the present appeals. Thus, the appeals were
 refixed for hearing and finally heard on 19.01.2018. Though, the
 disputed issue concerning allowability of interest expenditure claimed 5 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . by the assessee on the surface appears to be a simple issue, however,
on deeper scrutiny of facts and materials it is not so. Through a maze of
bank transactions funds worth Rs. 200 crore have been transferred
between number of entities including the assessee. As could be seen
from facts on record, while filing the original return of income for the
assessment year 2010-11 assessee did not declare the interest income
claimed to have been received from Cineyug. Subsequently, through a
revised return of income filed on 07.09.2011 assessee offered the said
interest income. Further, the assessing officer has observed that in the
audited balance sheet as at 31.03.2009 which was before survey, the
assessee had shown unsecured loan of `.31.50 crore from Dynamix
Realty. However, in the audited balance sheet for assessment year
2010-11, which was prepared after survey, the unsecured loan has
been reclassified as inter corporate deposit(ICD). Similarly, while in the
audited balance sheet of assessment year 2009- 10 assessee has
shown an amount of Rs. 28.50 crore as investment in share application
money with Cineyug, in the audited balance sheet of assessment year
2010-11, the nomenclature of Rs. 28.50 has been changed to loans and
advances from investments. Further, the audited balance sheet of
assessee for assessment year 2010-11 shows investment in share
application money with Cineyug at Rs .206.24 crores split into Rs.
06.2475 crore as equity share application money and Rs. 200 crore as
8% debenture application money. Similar inconsistencies were also
pointed out by the assessing officer in respect of transfer of money
between Cineyug and KTV. The assessing officer also alleged that in the
process of advancing/investing in share application money, ICD and
debenture bonds, both, the assessee and Cineyug have violated various
provisions of Companies Act . Further, assessing officer has also
observed, either during search or survey no proof or document was
found to indicate offer of debenture by Cineyug or application made by
assessee for investing in such debenture. Ultimately, though, the
assessing officer assessed the amount offered by the assessee as
interest income, however, he held that it is not in the nature of interest
income. 11. On a careful reading of prargraph 19 to 19.3 of Commissioner
(Appeals) order for assessment year 2010-11, against which the
department is in appeal, it is evident, the Commissioner(Appeals) has
totally overlooked and ignored the inconsistencies pointed out by the
assessing officer with regard to the nature of transactions between the
parties in purported violation of various provisions of Companies Act .
Learned Commissioner(Appeals) while allowing assessee's claim in
Assessment Year 2010-11 has not at all dealt with a number of
factual issues raised by the assessing officer. In as much as, while
deciding assessee's appeal for Assessment Year 2011-12 the 6 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . Commissioner(Appeals) has upheld the disallowance of interest
expenditure claimed by the assessee on a altogether different reasoning
by changing the head of interest income shown by the assessee under
the head 'income from other sources' to 'business income'. Thus, there is
inconsistency even in the stand of the department with regard to the
head of income. 12. Moreover, the most important factor which will have crucial bearing
on the disputed issue is the fate of the cases filed by the CBI against the
assessee under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Prevention of
Money Laundering Act . A reading of the impugned assessment orders
as well as the first appellate order for assessment year 2011-12 would
leave no room for doubt that the disallowance of interest expenditure
stands on the fulcrum of the allegations made by the CBI against the
assessee and other persons in the charge sheet/complaint filed under
the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 . However, learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New
Delhi, while delivering his judgment on 21st December 2017 in C.C.
no.01/2011, the case filed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 ,
has acquitted the assessee from all charges leveled against it on the
following observations:- 13. Relying upon his decision in the Complaint Case filed under
the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , the learned Special Judge, CBI
(04), New Delhi, also acquitted the assessee in the Complaint Case
no.1/2014 filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 ,
with the following observations:- 14. Undisputedly, these are recent developments much after completion
of proceedings before the Departmental Authorities. None of the
Departmental Authorities had the benefit of the aforesaid orders passed
by the learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New Delhi, which were produced
for the first time in course of appeal hearing before us. Rules of natural
justice and fair play demand that the Departmental Authorities must be
given an opportunity to analyze and examine the impact the orders
passed by the learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New Delhi, may have on
the disputed issue arising in the present appeals. 15. Therefore, regard being had to the facts discussed by us herein
before and the changed scenario arising due to the orders passed by the
learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New Delhi, referred to above, we are of
the considered opinion that the issues raised in the present appeals are
required to be restored back to the Assessing Officer for de novo
adjudication after considering all incidental facts and material including
the orders of the learned Special Judge, CBI (04), New Delhi. M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . Consistent with the view taken by the co-ordinate bench, we set aside the
order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue and restore the same to the file of the
assessing officer for examining it afresh as held by the co-ordinate bench. 11. The next issue urged by the assessee relates to the claim of set off of
brought forward business losses and unabsorbed depreciation. The
submission of the assessee is that the AO did not allow set off of brought
forward business losses and unabsorbed depreciation. Hence the assessee
raised a ground relating thereto in the appeal preferred before Ld CIT(A).
However, the Ld CIT(A) omitted to dispose of the same and hence the assessee
preferred an application u/s 154 of the Act before Ld CIT(A). According to Ld
A.R, the Ld CIT(A) has not disposed of the same till date. Accordingly it is
prayed that the AO may be directed to allow set off of brought forward
business losses and unabsorbed depreciation. 12. We heard the parties on this issue. The claim of the assessee is that
the Ld CIT(A) has not disposed of the ground urged before him in this regard.
In any case, the claim of the assessee requires factual verification. Accordingly
we restore this issue also to the file of the assessing officer for examining the
claim of the assessee in accordance with the law. 13. We shall now take up the appeal filed by the revenue for AY 2009-10.
First issue urged by the Revenue relates to addition of Rs.223.03 lakhs made
by the Assessing Officer towards suppression of income earned from various
events, which were not disclosed by the assessee. 14. The Assessing Officer, upon examination of incriminating materials and
also upon considering details of events organized by the assessee as
mentioned in the website of the assessee, came to the conclusion that the
assessee has not accounted for income from following events. The AO has
tabulated the same along with the reply of the assessee:- 15. We have heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. Before
learned CIT(A), the assessee submitted that the above said events have not
taken place as on 20.11.2009 (date of search) and they were under
consideration as on that date. It was further submitted that identical events
were held on other dates and they were conducted by group concerns only. It
was submitted that the group concerns have offered income generated from
the events. It was also pointed that seized paper mentioned the expression
"TBF" meaning "To be finalized" against each of the events, meaning thereby,
they were only at discussion stage. Accordingly it was submitted that these
events did not take place as on the date of search and hence no revenue was
generated there from. It was also submitted that several events are held on
identical names with slight variation in other dates, which were conducted by
group concerns. It was submitted that the Assessing Officer has erroneously
linked certain events with the events having identical name with slight 10 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . variation. The explanations given by the assessee before Ld CIT(A) in respect
of events conducted in the earlier year, are summarized below (a) Zee Astitva was conducted on 30.8.2008 by a group concern name M/s.
 Cineyug Worldwide for M/s. Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. (b) Temptation Revolution: According to the assessee, this event was
 named as 'Temptation Reloaded' and it was conducted on 25.10.2008 by
 Cineyug Entertainment for M/s. Red Chilies International Ltd. (c) Temptation Reloaded:- According to assessee, the actual name of the
 event was 'Temptation Reloaded Dubai' and it was conducted on
 21.6.2008. Said event was conducted jointly by the directors in their
 personal capacity for M/s. Seiker Entertainment. (d) Zee Marathi Gaurav :- According to assessee, actual name is 'Zee Gaurav
 SRPF ground' and it was conducted by M/s. Cineyug Worldwide on
 22.2.2009 for M/s. Zee News Limited. (e) Zee Carnival: According to the assessee, actual name is "Zee Carnival
 London" and the same was conducted on 13.2.2009 by the directors in
 their personal capacity for M/s. Red Chillies International. 16. In view of the above said explanations furnished by the assessee, the
learned CIT(A) called for a remand report from the Assessing Officer. In the
remand report, the Assessing Officer submitted that the assessee has failed for
furnish any compelling evidence to prove that the contents of seized
documents are not correct. It was also submitted that benefit of doubt with
regard to contents of seized documents was duly given to the assessee
accepting its explanation. Accordingly, the Assessing Officer stood by the
addition made by him. 17. Since, the Assessing Officer did not examine the claim of the assessee
with regard to material furnished, the learned CIT(A) directed the assessee as
well as the Assessing Officer to be present before him on 19.3.2013 in order to
examine factual documents furnished by the assessee in the presence of the
Assessing Officer. Accordingly, the learned CIT(A) examined the documents
relating to five events referred above and found that the explanations of the 11 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . assessee were factually correct. The Learned CIT(A) has observed that the
Assessing Officer has also attested to the said facts in course of hearing and
examination of books/documents as furnished. Accordingly, the learned CIT(A)
gave a finding that the above said events were conducted by the group
concerns on other dates. The document seized on the date of search, i.e., on
20.11.2009, only disclosed the events, which were yet to materialize.
Accordingly, he deleted the addition of Rs. 223.03 lakhs made by the Assessing
Officer. 18. We notice that the Ld CIT(A) has rendered his decision after
examination of the documents in the presence of the assessing officer. The
findings given by Ld CIT(A) has also been attested by the AO, meaning
thereby, the AO also appears to have accepted the findings of Ld CIT(A)
before Ld CIT(A). Hence, the revenue should not have grievance over the
same. For the sake of convenience, we extract below operative portion of the
order passed by learned CIT(A) :- per the directions of the C1T(A) as contained in the remand order was
 not complied with. In the interest of justice it was imperative that the
 facts and documents as presented by the appellant be physically
 verified in order to arrive at a decision. Taking into account the said fact,
 the appellant was directed to present its submissions and the relevant
 documents/books of account before the CIT(A) on 19.3.2013. On the
 said date the A.O was requested to be present, which was complied
 with. The submissions as made and the factual documents as furnished
 were physically examined in the presence of the A.O. All the aspects _as
 mentioned by the appellant with reference to all the five events were
 verified in the presence of the A.O, and it was factually seen that the
 contentions/submissions as made by the appellant are factually correct.
 The A.O has also attested to the said fact in the course of hearing and
 examination of the books/documents as furnished. It has been
 examined and seen that the group concerns had indeed conducted the
 events, (which were wrongly correlated by the A.O). It is also observed
 from the relevant seized documents that the seized documents
 contained the notings TBF i.e. as on 20th November 2009 the events as
 mentioned therein were yet to materialize.Under the said circumstances,
 I am unable to sustain the addition of Rs. 2,23,03,841/-; the addition is
 accordingly deleted." In view of the above, we do not find any reason to interfere with the order
passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue. 19. The next issue contested by the Revenue relates to addition of Rs. 57.26
lakhs relating to events named "Khaitan Wedding" and "Events at Indore and
Jaipur". The Assessing Officer noticed from the seized documents that the
assessee has conducted events named Khaitan Wedding and also events at
Indore and Jaipur. The amount mentioned in respect of those events was Rs.
50.60 lakhs and Rs. 6.66 lakhs respectively. According to AO, the above said
events were also mentioned in the assessee's website. The assessee stated
before the AO that those events did not take place and hence no revenue was
generated. The Assessing Officer was not satisfied with the explanations of the
assessee and accordingly made an addition of Rs. 57.26 lakhs. The Learned
CIT(A) deleted the same and hence the revenue has filed this appeal. M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . 20. We have heard the parties and perused. Before learned CIT(A) the
assessee submitted that the seized material relating to above events mentioned
only quotation for the events. However, the assessee did not get contract for
organizing those events. Accordingly, it was contended that the Assessing
Officer was not justified in making addition. Hence the Learned CIT(A) called
for a remand report from the Assessing Officer. In the remand report, the
Assessing Officer placed his reliance on the information given in the official
website and submitted that the website of the assessee disclosed that these
events have been conducted by the assessee. Before the AO, the assessee filed
confirmation letter obtained from Khaitan group confirming that the above said
events did not take place during the A.Y. 2009-10. The Assessing Officer,
however, expressed the view that the confirmation letter only mentions that
the event did not take place during the year under consideration and it has
failed to clarify as to whether the said event was conducted by the assessee
either prior to or after A.Y. 2009-10. In response to the remand report, the
assessee submitted that these events are not reflected in the website as alleged
by the AO. It was further submitted that seized material clearly show that
notings made therein were related to initial discussions only. The Learned
CIT(A) was convinced with the explanations of the assessee and accordingly
deleted the addition with following observation :- taken place and it is only a working sheet drafted as part of discussion of
 the various events proposed to be held for the wedding function. Further,
 on a reading of the remand report of the A.O on the subject, it is perceived
 that the A.O has only reiterated the earlier findings in the order of the
 assessment. However, the A.O took cognizance of the additional evidence
 in the form of confirmation from the Khaitan Group confirming that no
 marriage event has been conducted for them during A.Y 2009-10. To this,
 the reply of the A.O is that the assessee failed to clarify whether the event
 was conducted either before A.Y 2009-10 or after 2009-10; however, there
 is a tacit admission that such an event did not take place during the
 captioned year. It must also be mentioned here that the said matter was
 taken up for discussion in the presence of the A.O on 19.3.2013 in the
 course of hearing of the appeal. No further submission was put forth by
 the A.O other than what is stated in the remand report. From the facts as
 brought out on record, it is to be held that there is no evidence that the
 event had actually taken place. That being so, the said seized document
 denotes the projection for a programme that was under discussion. So
 also, seized documents with regard to Indore/Jaipur, is observed to be the
 projected estimate for stage decoration, signage, furniture etc. considering
 where the event is to be held, i.e. whether at Indore or Jaipur. In short, the
 document is a comparative study in costing considering the place of
 holding of the event. In the absence of any evidence to prove the contrary,
 I am unable to sustain the addition of Rs. 57,26,380/- as income from
 undisclosed sources. The addition of Rs. 57,26,380/- is hereby deleted. 21. On a perusal of the order passed by learned CIT(A), we noticed that
learned CIT(A) has given a clear finding that the seized documents contained
noting relating to initial discussion only. The Learned CIT(A) has also noticed
that the Assessing Officer has duly considered additional evidence furnished
by the assessee in the form of confirmation letter obtained from Kaitan group.
The Assessing Officer has only observed that the confirmation letter did not
clarify as to whether event was conducted either before or after 2009-10,
meaning thereby, there was a tacit admission by the Assessing Officer that
such an event did not take place during the captioned year. Accordingly the Ld
CIT(A) took the view that the noting made in the seized paper was related to
initial discussions only and hence no addition was called for. Accordingly, the
learned CIT(A) deleted addition. We notice that learned CIT(A) has passed a
reasoned order on this issue by duly considering all the evidences. The
confirmation letter of M/s Khaitan furnished by the assessee, in fact, supports 15 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . the contention of the assessee. We notice that the AO did not prove the same
to be false nor did he conduct any enquiry with M/s Khaitan group. The AO's
only observation was that the confirmation letter talks about year under
consideration only and not about either prior or subsequent year. There
should not be any dispute that we are concerned with AY 2009-10 only and if
the events were not held during that year, the question of assessing income in
AY 2009-10 does not arise. Accordingly we are of the view that the Ld CIT(A)
was justified in deleting the addition. Accordingly we uphold the order passed
by him on this issue. 22. We shall now take up the appeal filed by the assessee for AY 2010-11.
The first issue urged by the assessee relates to the assessment of income
relating to closing ceremony of IPL-2009 event held on 24.05.2009 in
Johannesburg, South Africa. The AO noticed from the seized record that the
assessee has given quotation of Rs.5.82 crores (South African Currency
equivalent to ZAR 1,03,16,050) to BCCI to conduct closing ceremony of IPL-
2009. The assessee was awarded contract for a sum of Rs.5.50 crores.
However, the assessee had declared profit of Rs.11,19,160/- from the above
said event as per the details given below:- The assessee submitted that the IPL-2009 final event was shifted to South
Africa due to ensuing elections in India. It was submitted that the closing
ceremony was conducted by M/s SVR Entertainments P Ltd, a company
registered in South Africa along with another company named M/s DNA
Entertainment Networks P Ltd. The assessee further submitted that major
work was executed by M/s DNA Entertainment Network P Ltd and a small
portion was executed by M/s SVR Entertainments P Ltd, from which the
assessee received payments for the work done by it. M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . 23. The AO noticed from the seized documents that M/s SVR Entertainments
P Ltd was a front company/nominee of the assessee only. He further observed
that the assessee did not prove involvement of M/s DNA Entertainment
Network P Ltd in the event. Accordingly he took the view that entire contract
amount should be assessed in the hands of the assessee. Accordingly he
computed profits from this contract as under:- 24. We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. We notice
that the main contention of the assessee is that the major part of closing
ceremony was conducted by M/s DNA Entertainment Network P Ltd. We
notice that the AO has rejected this contention for want of evidences to his
satisfaction. Further, the AO himself has accepted that the assessee was
awarded contract by BCCI for a sum of Rs.5.50 crores. However, the AO has
adopted the gross receipts as Rs.5.82 crores, as per the quotation submitted
by the assessee, while computing profit. This action of the AO contradicts his
own observation. Further the AO was of the view that M/s SVR
Entertainments P Ltd is a front company/nominee of the assessee. However,
the AO himself accepts that M/s SVR Entertainments P Ltd is registered in
South Africa. We notice that the AO has drawn adverse inferences in this
matter, mainly for want of evidences/lack of clarity and the assessee also
appears to have failed to clarify the doubts of the AO. Further, we notice that
the AO has allowed deduction of only Rs.48 lakhs as expenses. This appears
to be very low. Under these set of facts, we are of the view that this issue
requires fresh and proper examination at the end of the AO. Accordingly we
set aside the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue and restore the same to 17 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . the file of the AO for examining it afresh by duly considering the explanations
and evidences that may be furnished by the assessee before him. We also
direct the assessee to furnish all the evidences and documents that may be
called for by the AO. 25. The next two issues contested by the assessee relate to disallowance of
interest of Rs.12.19 crores paid by the assessee to M/s Kusegaon fruits and
vegetables P Ltd (also known as Kusegaon Reality ...) and addition of
facilitation fee of Rs.2.75 crores. Both these issues arise out of financial
transactions entered between M/s Dynamix, M/s Kusegaon, the assessee
herein and M/s K TV. In AY 2009-10, we restored the issue relating to
facilitation fee to the file of the AO for examining it afresh. The result of the
said examination would have bearing on these two issues in AY 2010-11.
Accordingly we deem it proper to restore these two issues also to the file of the
AO for examining them afresh as per the directions given in AY 2009-10.
Accordingly we set aside the orders passed by Ld CIT(A) on these two issues
and restore them to the file of the AO for examining them afresh as per the
directions given in AY 2009-10. 26. We shall now take up the appeal filed by the revenue for AY 2010-11.
The ground no.4 is related to the addition made in respect of IPL-2009. Since
the Ld CIT(A) has confirmed the addition, the revenue should not have any
grievance over the same. Accordingly we reject this ground. The Ground no.5
& 6 are general in nature. The remaining grounds relate to the following
additions made by the AO:- 27. The AO noticed from the seized papers/web site of the assessee that the
above said events have taken place, but the assessee did not offer the income 18 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . therefrom. Accordingly the AO added the above said amounts to the total
income of the assessee. Before Ld CIT(A), the assessee contended that :- 28. Hence the Ld CIT(A) remanded the matter to the AO and called for a
remand report from him. The assessing officer, however, stood by the
additions made. The Ld CIT(A), then, independently examined the seized
documents and came to the conclusion that the submissions made by the
assessee are correct. Accordingly he deleted the addition. For the sake of
convenience, we extract below the operative portion of the order passed by Ld
CIT(A) on this issue:- It is the contention of the appellant that the event "SRK Nights" M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . and the comment "Need to follow up with SNH Baber". The venue
mentioned is UAE (page 185 of paper book containing written
submissions). As per the seized material, this is about an event which
was under planning stage, as is perceived from the terminology used
"as on 6th July 2009" and "project update for Cineyug Entertainment
Event". Thus the seized document is apparently an update of events as
on 6th July, 2009. As per the document, it reasonably appears to be an
event proposed for July, 2009, the venue being UAE. It is submitted that
the said event does not appear in the website and no such event took
place. This is plausible for the reason that the words "Need to follow up
with Baber" appear alongside the said project. The event was evidently
under planning stage. There is no evidence of the event having taken
place. Hence the said addition of Rs.22,69,433/- is deleted. (ii) Jaipur Wedding (Rs. 49,12,955/-)

As per the books of account the receipts from Jaipur show is
Rs.31,68,663(page 193 of paper book). But the A.O. states that as per
seized material (54 & 55) the receipt is Rs.80,81,618/-. The appellant
has contended that seized documents 54 and 55 are unrelated material.
I have examined the copy of the said document 54 & 55 (pages 191 and
192 of paper book). It is observed to be summary of various expenses
incurred aggregating Rs. 80,81,618/-. There is no mention of Jaipur
wedding in the said papers. In the Remand Report dated 4.01.2013, the
A.O. himself admits that in respect of the said event the appellant had
made disclosure of Rs.35,00,000/- on account of possible omission of
expenses and further states that "as per seized papers page no. 54 &
55 showed total receipts of Rs.80,81,618/- which appear to be receipt
from the event of wedding at Jaipur". However, on an examination of the
papers 54 & 55, they are observed to be payments made for certain
expenses. Hence I am of the view that the addition made is not
sustainable. The addition stands deleted. (iii)........... (iv) King Khan Night - Kamala Mills (Rs. 22,69,433/-)
According to the A.O., the said event was reflected in the website to
have been conducted but there is no reference to the same in the books.
According to the appellant, the said event was conducted by one G.S.
Entertainment and not the appellant. Further, a e-mil confirmation was
filed stating to be from one Mr. Naresh Asrani to the effect that the event
was not conducted by the appellant, which was taken on record as
additional evidence. In the Remand proceedings, the CIT(A) directed the
A.O. to cause necessary enquiries to be conducted with M/s G.S.
Entertainment or Mr. Naresh Asrani and lo ascertain whether the show 20 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . was conducted by the appellant or not. However this exercise was not
 carried out by the A.O. The A.O. has only reiterated that what has been
 perceived from the seized material ought to be perceived as true and
 genuine. 1 am unable to accept the said contention of the A.O when the
 appellant has completely denied the transaction and has also
 endeavored to give further evidence to support its contention that it had
 not conducted the event; then the burden shifts and the 'A.O. who has to
 necessarily discharge the burden cast on him. The A.O. has not
 enquired into the contention of the appellant that the event was
 conducted by another entity. In the absence of such an action on the
 part of the A.O., and that a confirmation has been placed on record, the
 addition of Rs.22,69,483/- cannot be sustained. 29. We have heard the parties and perused the record. We notice that the
Ld CIT(A) has independently examined the seized papers and has given finding
that the event named "Sharukh Khan Nights" was at the initial stage of
discussions only and did not take place. In respect of Jaipur Wedding, the Ld
CIT(A) has noticed that the seized papers were not related to that event. The
other event named King Khan Nights was accepted as conducted by M/s G.S.
Entertainments. Before us, the revenue did not file any material to contradict
the findings given by Ld CIT(A). Since the Ld CIT(A) has given a finding on the
above said events by duly considering the seized papers and explanations of
the assessee and since the revenue could not controvert the same, we have no
other option but to confirm the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue. 30. We shall now take up the appeal filed by the assessee for AY 2011-12.
The only issue urged by the assessee related to disallowance of interest
expenses, i.e., interest paid to M/s Kusegaon Reality ... (also known as M/s
Kusegaon Fruits...). This issue arises out of financial transactions entered
between M/s Dynamix, M/s Kusegaon, the assessee herein and M/s K TV. In
AY 2009-10, we restored the issue relating to facilitation fee to the file of the
AO for examining it afresh. The result of the said examination would have
bearing on this addition made in AY 2011-12. Accordingly we deem it proper
to restore this issue also to the file of the AO for examining it afresh as per the
directions given in AY 2009-10. Accordingly we set aside the order passed by 21 M / s . C i n e y u g M ed i a &
 E n te r t a i n m e n t P v t. L td . Ld CIT(A) on this issue and restore it to the file of the AO for examining it
afresh as per the directions given in AY 2009-10. 31. In the result, both the appeals of revenue are dismissed. The appeals of
the assessee are treated as allowed for statistical purposes. Order has been pronounced in the Court on 09.1.2019.