Crl.P.No.58 of 2017 is filed by A.1-Sri C.Sudhakar

Reddy, RDO Nandyal and Crl.P.No.2613 of 2017 is filed by

A.2 Sri V.Venkata Ramana, Inspector of Police, Nandyal in

seeking to quash the proceedings in SC ST CC.No.29 of 2016

on the file of Special Judge for ST and SC Cases-cum-VI

Additional District & Sessions Judge, Kurnool, which is

outcome of private complaint of the 2nd respondent-defacto

complainant P.Pamulety, an advocate by avocation at

Nandyal, taken cognizance for the offences punishable under

Sections 3(1)(p)(r)(s)(u)(z), 3(2)(vii) of Scheduled Cates &

Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) amendment Act

2015 (for short 'the Act') and Section 341 r/w 34 IPC . 2. Heard learned counsel for the respective petitioners

and the learned counsel for the defacto complainant in both

the matters for common disposal and also the learned Public

Prosecutor representing the 1st respondent-State and perused

the entire material on record. 3. Before coming to the grounds in the quash petition,

the factual matrix necessary to refer is that there is a

complaint in the form of report and not in the form of private

complaint, dated 28.06.2016 filed by the 2nd respondent-

defacto complainant in Telugu script before the learned

Special Judge supra saying he is advocate by profession at
 2 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

Nandyal, one of his client S. Vimala Rani W/o. Nararaja

Reddy expressed her grief on 07.06.2016 in the Nava

Nirmana Deeksha program at Allagadda complaining against

revenue authorities with regard to non-issuance of pattadar

passbooks, the officers then stated in wiping out their tears of

they will inform the RDO and see that justice will be done.

However on next day i.e., 08.06.2016 there is a news item

published as disputed payment of bribe the officers are not

working properly in discharge of their official duties. On that

day evening said Vimala Rani along with her papers came to

Nava Nirmana Deeksha program and submitted a

representation to the RDO. It was on next day 09.06.2016

the RDO telephoned to the MRI, Chagalamarri and the VRO

in turn told to meet the RDO at Nandyal. On 10.06.2016

next day at 10.00 AM said Vimala Rani along with her mother

Jojamma went to the RDO, Nandyal and submitted further

details. At that time the RDO put a question to Vimala Rani

as to when her husband died and she did not reply and

immediately he returned the papers to her. He questioned

how she can forgot the date of death of her husband and

thrown the papers on her. She while weeping telephoned to

him and at about 11.00 AM he went to the RDO-Sudhakar

Reddy-A1 and introduced himself as advocate practising at

Nandyal by name Sri Pamulety and said Vimala Rani is his

client who approached him in relation to getting of pattadar

passbooks and shown his ID card. The RDO used the words
 3 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

merely because he happened to be an advocate and he replied

to him and thrown his ID card. He questioned the RDO how

far he justified to do so mere because he happened to be an

SC advocate and came to render justice to his client and the

RDO responded saying he has seen many advocates like the

complainant in saying they used to take bribes and move

around the office and interfere with administration without

any concern and merely because happened to be an advocate

are there any horns born to him and had he chooses he can

cause cancel his enrolment and also his caste certificate and

asked him to go out by saying he can call after half an hour

and made him to wait till 4 PM without calling. Said Vimala

Rani telephoned to the Joint Collector and informed the same

and the Joint Collector through the camp clerk telephoned to

the Vimala Rani saying he talked to the RDO who is on video

conference and later came and met the RDO. After sometime

when said Vimala Rani along with complainant-Pamulety

were waiting the CPI leaders P.Muralidhar, D.Tulasi Ramaiah

and A. Nagamalleswara Reddy in relation to the issue of

Vimala Rani met the Senior Assistant Madhusudhan of RDO

office and Rc.No.255/2016/A dated 08.06.2016. Pursuant to

the newspaper clipping the file received from Tahsildar,

Chagalamarri by RDO, Nandyal was shown and when asked

to give Xerox copy he did not give but permitted to reduce to

what it contains and it was mentioned therein of the mother

in law of Vimala, executed a document to her eldest son Indra
 4 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

Prasad Reddy as her successor and the legal heir of Indra

Prasad Reddy by name Singam Rajashekar Reddy obtained

pattader passbook No.48713, account No.343 and Appi

Reddy, Prameela Devi and Rammohan Reddy purchased from

him. It is further stated later the advocate Pamulety and his

client Vimala Rani and her mother Jojamma met the RDO

and he asked the RDO to acknowledge about their

approaching him in writing for which RDO questioned as to

can they ask any written acknowledgment of their presence

and also questioned about telephoning to the Joint Collector

by him and his client and asked to go out of his office. Said

Advocate Pamulety questioned the RDO in asking to go out of

his office when he came for his client, RDO stated not bound

to respond him and RDO in his cell phone photographed the

same and asked to call the police and then III Town ASI and

constable came there and removed the cell phones of them

and arrested them on the evening of Friday at 5.00 PM and

kept at III Town PS and their names and address noted and

given to the III Town CI-A2 and the CI received therefrom

complaint of RDO, he said Pamulety even informed that he is

advocate the CI questioned was what if an advocate and did

not even enquire them and left the police station and they

were kept till next day 3.00 PM without any enquiry in the

police station and produced before the JFCM by Saturday

evening and he made a representation of he is suffering from

ill-health before the Magistrate, however he remanded all of
 5 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

them to judicial custody to the Nandyal Sub Jail. It is stated

further that 2 years prior to that he suffered with heart

problem and having seen the jail climate in the jail cell he lost

conscious and one Muralidhar who was also in the cell raised

cries and the jail officer Satyanarayana came there and

decided to shift him to hospital and telephoned to III Town

Police Station for escort and the CI III Town or SI III Town did

not respond even to the landline of the Police Station from jail

landline called and it was at about 9 PM on that Saturday as

a last resort when telephoned to the landline of PS, head

constable informed of telephoned to CI and II town constables

from II Town, HC and 2 constables when telephoned to II

Town Police Station and they put handcuffs to him (advocate

Pamulety) and even he questioned they did not heed by

saying it is order of their Inspector and taken therefrom to

Government Hospital, Nandyal and informed to provide any

treatment early and he was administered saline and while so

even he asked to go for urinals they did not believe and

questioned as if he was speaking falsehood with abuse and

cause stopped the saline administering and did not remove

the handcuffs and he was asked with those handcuffs to go

for urinals and thereafter in an auto got back to the jail by

unheeded to the request to continue his treatment in the

hospital and further administering of saline and he was in

precarious situation. The co-jailor in the cell Muralidhar has

given mental strength to him with breath analysis exercise
 6 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

and he spent till next morning with that difficulty and on next

day the jail authorities informed escort people to come by

9.00 AM to send to hospital and 2 constables again came and

put handcuffs and taken to Government hospital by made

him to walk and the Doctor examined his pulse and he was

admitted in ICU with handcuffs kept there and at the noon

time III Town police came and continued accordingly. The co-

advocates Rajendraprasad, Satyam, Krishna Lingamaiah

came there to see him on seeing the handcuffs perturbed and

shocked and they telephoned to III Town Police Station who

stated they are no way concern and on next day that is

Monday at about 11 AM Inspector Venkata Ramana came and

asked him as to why he is playing dramas and tamashas and

asked to continue the treatment with handcuffs in the

Hospital and even threatened the hospital nurses and Doctors

and he suffered mentally therefrom. On that day the

advocate association Nandyal convened a general body

meeting and boycotted the Courts and came in writing to the

III Town Police Station and raised rastarokos for nearly one

hour and they came to the hospital to see him and noticed

with handcuffs hence to take action. 4. The learned Special Judge by impugned order dated

25.10.2016 taken the case on file against A.1 and A.2 supra

for the offences supra and against A.3 & A.4 for the offences

punishable under Sections 341 , 195 , 503 & 506 r/w 34 IPC 7 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

and ordered to issue summons to execute personal bonds for

appearance before the Court. 5. The present quash petition is in impugning the same

saying the impugned cognizance order of the learned Sessions

Judge is outcome of non-application of mind and without

even considering the bar under Section 197 Cr.P.C. to take

cognizance on any private complaint against public servant

and without even any discussion to how the ingredients of the

offence under Section 3 of the Act applies against any of them

to take cognizance and the learned Judge in taking

cognizance failed to consider the whole issue between the 2nd

respondent and A.1-RDO regarding issuance of pattedar

passbooks by Tahsildar which is purely a civil dispute. The

very complaint of the 2nd respondent vis-à-vis sworn

statement in tune to it is the subordinate staff acted rudely

under the alleged directions of petitioner with no basis and

what was after submitted to judicial custody for anything

there is no role of RDO and Inspector of Police but for court

custody with sub jail to send by jail authorities with escort if

any secured to provide and the contentions contra are

baseless and false and brought into being the crime registered

by the Inspector of Police was on the report of the RDO for the

offence under Section 353 IPC against the 2nd respondent and

he was arrested and submitted to judicial custody from the

order of the learned Magistrate and not in police custody and

thereby the proceedings are liable to be quashed. 8 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017 6. Whereas the learned counsel for the defacto

complainant submitted that in the hospital bed as per the

newspaper clipping of Sakshi and Andhra Jyothi daily

14.06.2016 and Eenadu daily of even date the complainant

was while on hospital bed under treatment to his leg there

was a chain tied to the cot and it is grave ill-treatment for

which the accused persons are responsible and there is a

prima facie accusation against the accused Nos.1 &

2/petitioners who exceeded their jurisdiction and not entitled

to the protection under Section 197 Cr.P.C. and there is

nothing to interfere with the cognizance order of the learned

Magistrate and the quash petitions are liable to be dismissed. 7. Heard and perused the material on record from what

is discussed supra. 8. From perusal of the very report of the defacto

complainant that was taken as private complaint by recording

the sworn statement by learned Special Judge what all

mentioned was in exchange of words between him and RDO

in relation to his representation of his client for grant of

pattadar passbook. In fact the RDO has given a complaint

against the defacto complainant for which the crime was

registered as FIR and it is a cognizable offence for the offence

under Section 353 IPC at the office of the RDO while he was

discharging the duties from what was stated of the defacto

complainant used criminal force. There is nothing to find

fault the Inspector of Police who is not even the SHO for the
 9 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

crime was registered by the SHO and the complainant who

was available at RDO and according to him even therefrom

arrested and within 24 hours produced by the police to the

judicial custody before the learned Magistrate and the learned

Magistrate has taken him to judicial custody and remanded

to the Sub Jail, Nandyal. To that extent there is no offence

punishable under Section 3(1) &(2) of the Act applicable even

taken from the face value of the averments in the complaint

and not specifically any intentional insult on the complainant

but for if at all a general utterance from what the defacto

complainant of he is an SC advocate in response of the RDO

stated he has seen many such SC advocates and in general or

if at all sarcastically with no reason they go around the office

and merely because SC advocate there is nothing any special

to recognize and if at all threatened that if at all he chooses

can allegedly cancel his enrollment or caste certificate and

asked him to wait outside and what is stated is not even

called in the evening and what is stated however the

complainant called the Joint Collector and Joint Collector

stated RDO busy with video conference and he could talk and

in the meantime so called CPI leaders came to the RDO office

verified with the senior assistant the file and noted what it

contains. It is what the defacto complainant further stated

demanded the RDO to give in writing endorsement about his

presence along with his so called client. It is not even his

case that he filed any vakalat in any pending matter by filing
 10 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

any written explanation and it was not received. Without

vakalat he has no right to represent a party even as advocate

for such claim and it is not even his case that he filed with

vakalat with any representation petition before the RDO and

even RDO got jurisdiction and he refused to entertain. Merely

because RDO refused and questioned in asking to give return

acknowledgment of his appearance RDO cannot be implicated

in a SC & ST (POA) Act case. Even for that from heated

exchanges from what he questioned the RDO asked to go out

or to call police or covered by video coverage. What all further

stated is III Town Police Station ASI and head constable and

came there and arrested him and brought to the police

station and taken the address of him and the other 2 and

they received the written report of RDO and registered the

crime and he informed the Inspector came there that he is an

SC advocate and the CI unheeded the even stated as advocate

by kept him in the cell and later produced before the Court

within 24 hours. It is not even his case that any advocate

came and represented on his behalf before the CI or SHO for

any station bail and its entitlement. The issue happened on

Friday and he was produced on Saturday within 24 hours

before the learned Magistrate concerned with remand report

and taken to judicial custody. Nothing prevented him or any

body on his behalf even before to file any search warrant that

was not done much less any anticipatory bail. 11 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017 9. Coming to the subsequent events after admitted in

jail within 24 hours of judicial custody from the judicial

remand of order of learned Magistrate, what was happened is

at jail he lost conscious on seeing the jail climate and the co

jailer in the cell raised crises and jail authorities asked III

Town or II Town police to provide escort to cause shift and the

escort police taken to hospital with handcuffs. Where is the

direct role of RDO or Inspector from the III Town PS for the

escort police of II Town PS of at the request of jail authorities

provided the escort to take from Jail to Hospital and with

handcuffs if any. These aspects not even considered by the

learned Special Judge in taking cognizance from the said

report taken as private complaint with sworn statement of

said version in registering the case under SC ST Act or for

any wrongful restraint. Leave apart what the report given by

the RDO from what the defacto complainant in his very

complaint says approached the RDO in relation to the

pattadar passbook for RDO concerned to discharge the official

duty where for what all happened complaint given that is end

of the role of the RDO and not for subsequent events

responsible with no role as it is the police that registered the

crime and arrested him, even for the so called any abuse by

RDO referred supra to register any crime the sanction is

essential even it is while in discharge of official duties asked

him to go out or when he claimed as SC in saying he has seen

many SC advocates etc., words and without sanction the
 12 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

question of taking cognizance does not arise. Likewise even

coming to the Inspector of Police even not heeded on

intimation about he is SC advocate when the III Town police

having registered the crime for the offence under Section 353 IPC also that kept in cell of the police station and when

Inspector there not chosen to release him and if at all he has

claimed as advocate there is no concession and thereby so

what. It is even taken any exceeding of limit; it is only in

discharge of official duty there also sanction is a pre-

requisite. 10. What all the order of the learned Special Judge in

this regard reads is that PW.1-P.Pamulety and PW.2-Vimala

Rani stated of A.1-RDO abused PW.1 in the name of caste for

asking him to discharge his duties as RDO in the matter of

PW.2, in a manner unbecoming of a public servant and PW.3

also stated of A.1-RDO by influencing A.2-Inspector foisted

the crime No.130 of 2016 and the sworn statement goes to

show they were arrested in the evening at 5 PM and taken to

police station and A.1 prepared the complaint and sent the

same to police at 8.00 PM and the arrest is prior to the

complaint and thereby they acted illegally. It is not even the

case that Inspector personally came to the RDO office and

arrested them, but the III Town police and who arrested and

brought to the police station and shown arrest and kept in

the police station. Once it is the ASI and constable that is

allegedly arrested and not the Inspector, how the learned
 13 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

Special Judge can come to such a conclusion in his order at

Para 7 as if A.1 and A.2 acted illegally and perpetrators of

illegality for said arrest and brought to III Town police station

and shown arrest in the crime registered by the SHO only.

A.3 and A.4 are the constables who took PW.1 to the hospital

and jail with so called handcuffing to the leg tied to the cot in

saying there is wrongful restraint. The legal position of

handcuffing is not easily resorted to unless he is a hardcore.

The learned Special Judge cannot presume for his

observation in Para 9 that without instructions or order of

A.2, A.3 and A.4 could not resort to handcuffing. Thereby A.2

is liable or in his conclusion in Paras 9 & 10 as if there is

prima facie case against A.2 also for the offence under Section

341 r/w 34 IPC along with A.3 & A.4 including under Section

3(1)(p) and Section 3(2)(vii) of the SC & ST (POA) Act so also

against RDO under Section 3(1)(p)(r)(s)(u)(z) and 3(2)(vii) of the

Act, no way sustains. 11. It is one of the contentions of the defacto

complainant is not an SC but Christian and placed reliance

on the expression of the three judge bench in State of Kerala

Vs. Chandramohanan1 of change of status by conversion into

Christianity ceased to be a Hindu to claim SC & ST status for

the conversion will not made him to continue as member of

ST or SC as upon conversion the person may be governed by

different law governing the community to which originally he 1 2004 (3) SCC 429
 14 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

belongs. It is a matter which requires a detailed discussion

on facts by letting evidence and premature to go into unless it

is shown by any documentary proof of he is a converted

Christian and ceased to be an SC. 12. In S.Bala Krishna Vs. The State of Telangana rep.

by its Public Prosecutor2, this Court held at Paras 17 to 22

as follows: section will apply as if for the expression" Central
Government" occurring therein, the expression" State
Government" were substituted. (3A) 1 Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub- section (3), no court shall take cognizance of any
offence, alleged to have been committed by any
member of the Forces charged with the maintenance of
public order in a State while acting or purporting to
act in the discharge of his official duty during the
period while a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of Article 356 of the Constitution was in force therein,
except with the previous sanction of the Central
Government. (3B) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this Code or any other law, it is hereby
declared that any sanction accorded by the State
Government or any cognizance taken by a court upon
such sanction, during the period commencing on the
20th day of August, 1991 and ending with the date
immediately preceding the date on which the Code of
Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1991 , receives
the assent of the President, with respect to an offence
alleged to have been committed during the period
while a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of article
356 of the Constitution was in force in the State, shall
be invalid and it shall be competent for the Central
 16 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

Government in such matter to accord sanction and for
the court to take cognizance thereon.] (4) The Central
Government or the State Government, as the case may
be, may determine the person by whom, the manner in
which, and the offence or offences for which, the
prosecution of such Judge, Magistrate or public
servant is to be conducted, and may specify the Court
before which the trial is to be held. 18. As per Section 197(1) supra the sanction is
mandatory from the government concerned of the
public servant, the accused of an offence alleged to
have been committed by him while acting or
purporting to act in the discharge of official duty and
without such previous sanction, no Court shall take
cognizance such alleging offences. In three judge
Bench expression of Apex Court in P.K.Pradhan Vs.
State of Sikkam Rep. by the CBI held at paras-5 to 16
that referring to several of the earlier expressions right
from Hori Ramsingh Vs. Emperor , HHB Gill Vs. the
King , Amrik Singh Vs. State of Pepsu Sreekantiah
Ramayya Munipalli Vs. State of Bombay , Matajog
Dobey Vs. H.C.Bhari , Omprakash Gupta Vs. State of
U.P. , B.Saha Vs. M.S. Kochar , Baijnath Gupta Vs.
State of Madhya Pradesh , Abdul Vahab Ansari Vs.
State of Bihar , K.Satwant Singh Vs. State of Punjab observed in para- 5 that the legislative mandate
engrafted in sub section (1) of Section 197 debarring a
court from taking cognizance of an offence except with
the previous sanction of the Government concerned in
a case where the acts complained of are alleged to
have been committed by a public servant in discharge
of his official duty or purporting to be in the discharge
of his official duty and such public servant is not
removable from office save by or with the sanction of
the Government touches the jurisdiction of the court
itself. It is a prohibition imposed by the Statute from
taking cognizance. Different tests have been laid down
 17 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

in decided cases to ascertain the scope and meaning of
the relevant words occurring in Section 197 of the
Code, "any offence alleged to have been committed by
him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge
of his official duty." The offence alleged to have been
committed must has something to do, or must be
related in some manner, with the discharge of official
duty. No question of sanction can arise under Section
197 , unless the act complained of is an offence, the
only point for determination is whether it was
committed in the discharge of official duty. There
must be a reasonable connection between the act and
the official duty. It does not matter even if the act
exceeds what is strictly necessary for the discharge of
the duty, as this question will arise only at a later
stage when the trial proceeds on the merits. What a
court has to find out is whether the act and the official
duty are so inter-related that one can postulate
reasonably that it was done by the accused in the
performance of official duty, though, possibly in excess
of the needs and requirements of situation and further
discussing in para-6 from Hori Ram Singh supra
observed that the question was considered as to
whether the protection under Section 197 of the Code
can be confined only to such acts of the public servant
which are directly in pursuance of his public office,
though in excess of the duty or under a mistaken
belief as to the existence of such duty, and in para-8
referring to Sreekantiah Ramavva Munipalli supra
quoting Hori Ram Singh supra observed that Section
197 of the Code should not be construed in such a
narrow way so that the same can never be applied for
of course it is no part of an official's duty to commit an
offence and never can be. But it is not the duty we
have to examine so much as the act, because an
official act can be performed in the discharge of official
duty as well as in dereliction of it. The section has
 18 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

content and its language must be given meaning." In
para-9 referring to Amrik Singh supra held that held Section 197 of Cr.P.C. that if the discharge of official
duty and the act of the accused complained of are
inseparable, sanction under Section 197 of the Code
would be necessary. In para-12 referring to
Sureshkumar Bhikamchand Jain supra referring to
earlier expression of Matajog Dobey held the legislative
mandate engrafted in subsection (1) of Section 197 debarring a court from taking cognizance of an offence
except with previous sanction of the Government
concerned, this Court has laid down that he said
provision is a prohibition imposed by the statute from
taking cognizance and, as such, exercising jurisdiction
of the court in the matter of taking cognizance and,
therefore, a court will not be justified in taking
cognizance of the offence without such sanction on a
finding that the acts complained of are in excess of the
discharge of the official duty of the government servant
concerned. Para-14 to 16 referring to the
Constitutional Board expressions of K.Satwanth Singh
and also Om Prakash Gupta supra observed that for
claiming protection u/sec. 197 Cr.P.C . It has to be
shown reasonable connection between the Act,
complained of and discharge of official duty. It is well
settled that the question of sanction u/sec. 197 of Cr.P.C . can be raised at any time after the cognizance,
may be immediately after cognizance or framing of
charge or even at the time of conclusion of trial and
after conviction as well, any appeal. In Rajib Ranjan
Vs. R.Vijakumar two judge Bench at paras 14 to 18, it
is observed sanction however is necessary if the
offence alleged against the public servant is committed
by him after acting or purporting to act in the
discharge of his official duties as held in Buddi Kota
Subbar Rao Vs.K.Prakasham para-6 the fact or
omission on facts found reasonable connection that
 19 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

discharge of his duty by the accused thereby sanction
is required that cannot be disputed. In Raghunath
Anant Govilkar Vs. State of Maharashtra supra
referring to Sreekantaiah and Amrik Singh supra
observed if the act complained of is concerned with
official duties, sanction would be necessary and
therefrom observed if a public servant enters into a
criminal conspiracy and indulges in criminal
misconduct and misdemeanor, it is not to be treated
as an act in discharge of official duty thereby in that
case sanction held not necessary. Even from Rajib
Ranjan supra, the principle of law laid down of the act
complaint of no way connected to the discharge of
duties, sanction is imposed is reiterated. In Inspector
of Police Vs. Battenapatla Venkateramaiah the three
judge Bench expression of the Apex Court referring to Rajib Ranjan supra observed the facts of that case
while reiterating the principle of the protection u/sec. 197 given to the public servant is in the public interest
and in Subramanian Swamy Vs. Manmohan Singh -it
was held that the provisions dealing with sanction
u/sec. 197 of Cr.P.C . must be construed in such a
manner as to advance the cause of honesty, justice
and good governance and the para-74 therein speaks
that public servants are treated as a special class of
persons enjoying the special protection so that they
can perform their duties without fear and favour and
without threats of malicious prosecution. Thus even
from this Battenapatla Venkata Ratnam supra if it is
connected with the discharge of duties even there is
excess sanction is required. 19. In Om Prakash V. State of Jharkhand and
Kailashpathi Singh V. Rajiv Ranjan Singh (common
order) in relation to the encounter killings from the
attack against police, it was observed on the scope of Section 197 Cr.P.C that prior sanction is a pre-
condition for taking cognizance of offences against the
 20 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

police officials and there is no requirement for such
accused officials to wait till framing of charges to raise
the plea. In Sankaran Moitra V. Sadhana Das it was
held that when police fired in defence and in
performance of their officials duties cannot be
prosecuted without sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C
and therefrom quashed the prosecution initiated
against them by the Apex Court. In N.K.Ganguly Vs.
CBI, New Delhi though a case under Section 19 of the
P.C.Act referring to Section 197 of Cr.P.C. also
referring to the earlier three judge Bench expression of R.R. Chary Vs. State of U.P. on the scope of Section
197 of Cr.P.C. the word cognizance indicates very
initially of proceedings against the public servant and
the three judge Bench in Amrik singh supra held the
requirement of sanction can be raised at any stage and
in Matajog Dubey supra it was held Section 197 of
Cr.P.c is not ultra vires to Article 14 of the
Constitution of India, and it is imperative to obtain
sanction of the alleged offence is committed in
discharge of official duty by the accused in saying
without sanction the proceedings are unsustainable
also referring to the conclusion, several expressions
including Srikanthaiah and Hori Ramsingh, a Federal
Court and Satwanth Singh of Constitutional Bench
expression and Baidyanath Gupta supra in concluding
that if the application of the Cr.P.C . of also held in
another Constitutional Bench expression B.Saha supra is that the offence charged for want of
commission or omission must be one which has been
committed by the public servant either in his official
capacity or under the colour of the office held by him. In another recent expression of the Apex Court in Nanjappa Vs. State of Karnataka . No doubt the case
under Section 19 of P.C. Act by also referring to
several expressions including u/ sec.197 of Cr.P.C.
including the Constitutional Bench expressions of
 21 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

B.Saha, Badrinath Tripati supra and State of
Karnataka Vs. C.Nagarajaswamy among the others to
the conclusion that the order of acquittal on the
ground of acquittal recorded by setting aside by the
High Court found fault by allowing the appeal setting
aside the reversal order of the High Court saying
sanction required. 20. In Nagarajaswamy supra it was held that
when prior sanction by competent authority is
provided by statutory provision which is a sine-qua-
non for taking cognizance, ordinarily the question to
be dealt with is at the stage of taking cognizance. Even
cognizance taken erroneously, once the same comes to
the notice of the Court at a later stage finding to that
effect is to be given by the Court. The accused is
entitled to take such plea or sanction required at any
point of time including even in hearing the appeal
before the appellate Court. It was held that when all
the mandatory requirements of the statutory
formalities not complied with, practically cognizance
cannot be taken by the Court and any cognizance
taken is therefrom is unsustainable. 22. In further saying as held in Nagarajaswamy supra and State of Goa Vs. Babu Thomas for want of
sanction the Court taking cognizance is incompetent
and that error was so fundamental that invalidated the
proceedings conducted by trial Court by relegating the
parties to apposition where the competent authorities
could issue on appropriate order sanctioning the
prosecution. In another expression D.T.Virupakshappa
Vs.C.Subhash referring to Kumar Raghavendra Singh
Vs. Ganesh Chandra Jew of protection u/ sec.197 Cr.P.C. is to protect responsible public servant against
the institution of possibly vexatious criminal
proceedings for the offences alleged to have been
committed by them while they are acting or purporting
to act as public servants. If in doing his official duty he
 22 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

 even acted in excess of a duty when there is
 reasonable connection between the act and
 performance of duty, the excess will not be sufficient
 ground to deprive the protection to the public servant
 and it was observed ultimately when police allegedly
 exceeding in exercise of his power in alleging while
 investigating he assailed the complainant and detained
 him in police station, said offence committed is when
 reasonably connected with the performance of the
 official duty previous sanction is mandatory and the
 proceedings thereby followed vitiated in quashing the
 proceedings." 13. Coming to the decision placed reliance by the

complainant in Surinderjit Singh Mand and another v.

State of Punjab3 on the requirement of sanction or not for

illegal detention for 4 days which is beyond what is provided

by Section 57 Cr.P.C. by maximum 24 hours excluding

journey time cannot be kept with place after arrest to produce

before the Magistrate. Here within 24 hours the defacto

complainant was produced before the Magistrate

undisputedly thereby there is no illegal detention and the

principle laid down therein as no application to the facts as it

is also laid down therein that whether sanction required or

not to be decided with reference to the attended facts of each

case. 14. In fact as referred supra, it is the SHO III Town PS

that registered the crime, arrested the accused and produced

with remand report before the Magistrate and the Magistrate 3 2016 (8) SCC 722
 23 Dr.SSRB,J
 Crl.P.Nos.58 & 2613 of 2017

sent him to jail and the jail authorities with police escort that

could sent to hospital as accused practically in judicial

custody and while under custody judicial control can be with

jail authorities and no direct role of police, but for to provide

escort and keep in watch while under treatment at Hospital.

Before sending back to jail having taken from jail and that too

there is no any written instructions from the Inspector from

the material on record for handcuffing to rope A.2 for that. 15. Having regard to the above and in the result, both

the Criminal Petitions are allowed by quashing the

proceedings against A.1 and A.2 SC ST CC.No.29 of 2016 on

the file of Special Judge for ST and SC Cases-cum-VI

Additional District & Sessions Judge, Kurnool, and the

accused are acquitted and the bail bonds of the accused, if

any, shall stand cancelled. Miscellaneous petitions, if any, shall stand closed. _______________________________
 Dr. B. SIVA SANKARA RAO, J
Date: 31.12.2018
ska