RESERVED: 14th October 2020
 DATED : 29th October 2020

 P.C:- 2 Heard the learned senior counsel Mr.AHH Ponda
for the applicant and Mr.Venegaonkar for the Directorate of
Enforcement, Mumbai. ECIR bearing No.ECIR/MBZO-
1/2/2019 was registered by the Directorate of Enforcement,
Mumbai. The Assistant Directorate, PMLA filed a complaint
in the designated Court for the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 under Sections 44 and 45 of the
PMLA for commission of the offence of Money Laundering
as defined under Sections 3 and punishable under Section 4 of the said Act. On 31st August 2019, the designated Court
took cognizance of the complaint and issued summons to the
accused persons. The case was then numbered as Case No.6
of 2019. The applicant is one of the accused who has been
alleged to have indulged in money laundering according to
the said complaint. 3 Learned counsel Shri Ponda appearing for the
complainant would urge that the applicant is a sexagenarian
and is a qualified Civil Engineer who had joined the
Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Ltd (hereinafter
referred to as 'IL&FS'). He was sent to deputation to the
IL&FS Transportation Networks Limited (ITNL). He came
to be appointed as Managing Director of ITNL and

Tilak
 3 BA 361-2020 .doc

continued on the said post till he was asked to tender his
resignation in October 2018. The learned counsel would submit that on an
ECIR numbered above, being registered on 19th February
2019, the applicant was summoned by Enforcement
Directorate for investigation and he co-operated with the
investigation throughout. The applicant was arrested on 19 th
June 2019 and the Enforcement Directorate was granted his
custody. From 20th June 2019, he was remanded to judicial
custody and since then, is incarcerated. The submission of
Mr.Ponda is to the effect that on perusal of the complaint, the
alleged case of ED is that the Committee of Directors (COD)
of IFIN in connivance with promoters of groups sanctioned
loans to several group companies which have been named in
the complaint, at the time when these groups were under
financial stress and unable to discharge their outstanding
loans and the new loans were sanctioned to repay their earlier
loans and to be utilized by the groups, otherwise then, as
mentioned in the Credit Approval Memorandum thereby
committing schedule offences. It is alleged that the COD did
so in order to maintain the credentials of IFIN and in lieu to
continue to receive high remuneration. Thus, according to
him, the COD of IFIN which had the sole authority to

Tilak
 4 BA 361-2020 .doc

approve all loan proposals but the COD included four
accused persons i.e. Ravi Parthasarthy, Ramesh Bawa, Hari
Sankaran and Arun Saha. According to Shri Ponda, the
applicant was not a member of COD of IFIN and thus, no
accusations can be attributed to him. Further, according to
him, the name of the applicant is not included in the Top
Management, which is not the case as regards the other
accused persons. According to him, the applicant was only a
member of United Approval Framework (UAF) of IFIN
Infrastructure Projects and the role of the applicant was
limited to review of the infrastructure projects which, in any
case, was not binding on IFIN. Further, he is not recipient of
any monies from IFIN. The submission, therefore, is during
his entire tenure with IL&FS, the applicant remained merely
as its employee. He came to be deputed to ITNL being
employee of IL&FS, which raised invoices over ITNL
towards deputation cost and this deputation cost was paid to
IL&FS and not to the applicant who received his salary from
IL&FS and Performance Related Perquisites (PRP) from
ITNL. According to Shri Ponda, the applicant was not
recipient of any PRP, deputation cost, commission and sitting
fees through IFIN during his entire tenure. The applicant is
said to have been received salary from IL&FS and also his

Tilak
 5 BA 361-2020 .doc

superannuation dues including the Provident Fund, Gratuity
which was deposited into a fund in LIC has not been released
in his favour. Thus, according to Shri Ponda, the offence of
Money laundering which has been attributed in the
complaint do not implicate him and he has no concern with
IFIN. 4 Shri Ponda also claim parity with other co-accused
and he submit that, that other members of the COD of IFIN
being Shri Ravi Parathasarathy, Shri Ramesh Bawa and Shri
Hari Sankaran were not arrested by ED and in fact, they have
been granted bail under Section 88 of the Cr.P.C. by the
designated Court on 23rd September 2019. Same is the case
of another co-accused C. Sivasankaran. According to the
learned counsel, the applicant is only a non-Director, non-key
managerial personnel and a non-employee and non-
consultant of IFIN who has been arrested by ED, whereas
other Directors and members of COD who were at the helm
of the affairs have been spared. Thus, the very basis of his
arrest is erroneous. He would submit that in the complaint,
ED has apportioned an amount of Rs.27,78,00,000/-
(Rupees Twenty Seven Crore Seventy Eight Lakhs) towards
proceeds of crime under Section 2(1)(u) of PMLA being PRP,

Tilak
 6 BA 361-2020 .doc

deputation cost and proceeds receipts from sale of shares
received by the applicant during financial year 2015 to 2018,
out of which the submission advanced is, the deputation cost
is not paid to the applicant but it has gone to the IL&FS from
ITIN. The submission is that the properties worth
Rs.21,50,00,000/- are already provisionally attached by the
ED and the competent authority appointed under PMLA,
thus, securing the alleged claim of proceeds of crime against
the applicant. The submission, therefore, is that since the
complaint is now filed and the properties being attached, the
applicant is entitled to be released on bail. 5 In response to the submissions of the learned
senior counsel, Shri Venegaonkar appearing for the
respondent strongly rely on the material contained in the
complaint and submit that the applicant is implicated in a
serious offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering
Act and relying on the affidavit in reply sworn by the
competent officer of the Directorate of Enforcement, Shri
Venegaonkar would asseverate that while considering the bail
for an offence under the PMLA, the barrier of Section 24 of
the Act, which cast a burden of proof on the
accused/applicant in any proceedings under PMLA will have

Tilak
 7 BA 361-2020 .doc

to be crossed. He submit that this has become even more
essential as post the 2018 amendment, Section 45(1) of the
Act now refers to the offence of Money Laundering and
therefore, the accused must discharge the burden of proof cast
under Section 24, before seeking any relief under the Act.
The submission of Shri Venegaonkar is that the applicant has
failed to discharge the burden and has failed to produce even
prima facie material in support of his contention. Shri
Venegaonkar specifically deny the submission of Shri Ponda
that the applicant was not a member of COD of IFIN at any
point of time. According to him, from the Forensic Audit
Report conducted by Grant Thorton, Shri Ramchand
Karunakaran, i.e. the applicant was one of the members of the
Committee of Directors as regards the infrastructural projects.
Further, according to him, in his own statement recorded
under Section 50(2) and (3) of PMLA 2002, he has
addressed himself to be a member of COD of IFIN. Further,
from the Credit Approval Memorandum, the applicant has
signed as a Member of COD of IFIN. Shri Venegaonkar
would also submit that he was one of the members of the
COD of IFIN for infrastructural projects and apart from that,
he was a Managing Director of ITNL and in IFIN, every
member shared equal responsibilities like sanction of loans

Tilak
 8 BA 361-2020 .doc

for infrastructural projects and therefore, the applicant cannot
now say that he did not share any responsibility. Shri
Venegaonkar has exhaustively taken me through the
complaint and the allegations levelled against the present
applicant. He has also referred to the FIR registered with
EOW, Delhi which was the trigger point for commencement
of investigation by the DRI under the PMLA. He also refer
to a complaint filed by Serious Fraud Investigation Office
(SFIO) on 30th May 2019 for commission of offence under Section 447 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Section
120B and Section 420 of the IPC. Further, responding to the
submission that the applicant is the only one who has been
discriminated, Shri Venegaonkar submit that the present
applicant along with one of the Members of COD of IFIN
was arrested on 19th June 2019, the other two members Shri
Ramesh Bawa and Hari Sankaran were also arrested by SFIO
and they are already in jail custody. He has also placed
reliance on the statement given by various officials of IFIN
and relied on documents including the Forensic Audit Report
submitted by Grant Thorton reflecting substantial anomalies
in sanctioning loan to third parties. 6 Relying on the said documents, Venegaonkar
would urge that IFIN business model has focussed on

Tilak
 9 BA 361-2020 .doc

working with select groups with relationship driven by top
management team comprising of Mr.Ravi Parthasarathy,
Mr.Hari Sankaran, Mr. Ramesh Bawa, Mr.Ramchand and
there has been no change in the top management team since
last 15 - 20 years. They also happened to be the members of
Committee of Directors in whom the sole authority to
approve the loan proposals vested. Since the applicant was
the Managing Director of ITNL and one of the member of
COD of IFIN for infrastructure project, IFIN had the sole
mandate to carry out debt and equity syndication for ITNL.
During the course of investigation, it appear that RBI in its
inspection report dated 1st November 2017 had advised IFIN
to run down its exposures to group companies with no fresh
lending and in ignorance of this advise, it managed to receive
funds from IFIN and the modus operandi was that the loans
came to be sanctioned to various entities and through them,
the money was routed to ITNL and the Special Purpose
Vehicles by IFIN. Shri Venegaonkar would submit that the
allegations levelled in the complaint that the applicant along
with other COD members of IFIN, in connivance with
promoters of loanee group did not exercise their due diligence
for their personal benefit is substantiated. He would state
that the amount received by the applicant is part of proceeds

Tilak
 10 BA 361-2020 .doc

of crime in terms of Section 2(1)(u) of PMLA, which was
thereafter laundered and projected by him as untainted.
Thus, the applicant has indulged in the offence of money
laundering in terms of Section 3 read with Section 70 of the
PMLA 2002, since he has received huge amount of
performance related perks and there was a substantial hike in
the PRP and sitting fees during last three consecutive
financial years. 7 The respective counsel have place reliance on
several documents to support their submission. From the
material placed on record including the complaint, the
following factual events can be discerned. IL&FS Group is an Indian Infrastructure
Development and Finance Company formed in 1987 as an
RBI registered core investment company by 3 financial
institutions, i.e.Central Bank of India, Unit Trust of India and
Housing Development Finance Company to provide finance
and loans for major infrastructure projects. Its primary
mandate is catalyzing the development of innovative, world
class infrastructure in India. IL&FS Limited is a core
investment company and serve the holding company IL&FS
group. This group operated as on 31st March 2018 with 24

Tilak
 11 BA 361-2020 .doc

direct subsidiaries, 136 indirect subsidiaries, 6 joint ventures
and 4 associate companies. IL&FS had institutional
shareholders which included LIC (25.34%), Orix
Corporation of Japan (23.54%), ADIA (12.56%), HDFC
(9.2%), Central Bank of India (7.67 %) and State Bank of
India (6.42%). The IL&FS Finance Services Ltd (IFIN) was
incorporated as IL&FS Asset Management Co. in 1995 and
in the year 2005, obtained a Non-Banking Finance Company
licence (NBFC) and was renamed as IL&FS Invest Limited.
Subsequently, in the year 2006, the banking team from ILFS
and the syndication team from ILFS Investment Ltd were
integrated and integrated team was renamed as ILFS
Financial Services Ltd (IFIN). It is a 100% subsidiary of
Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited. IFIN
is responsible for undertaking corporate advisory services,
syndication, project finance and lending transactions. IFIN
was led and managed by Ravi Parthasarathy, Ramesh Bawa as
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer since its
inception. Milind Patel was the joint Managing Director of
IFIN who oversaw the asset and structured finance and
Corporate Advisory Business. Rajesh Kotian was the Dy.
Managing Director and was entrusted with debt syndication

Tilak
 12 BA 361-2020 .doc

business of IFIN (both domestic and overseas). Additionally,
from the IL&FS Board, Shri Ravi Parthasarathy, Hari
Sankaran, Vaibhav Kapur and Arun Saha were discharging
their function as non- executive directors of IFIN till their
resignation. The Committee of Directors (COD) of IFIN
comprise of Shri Ravi Parthasarathy, Arun Kumar Saha,
Ramesh Bawa, Hari Sankaran, Ramchand Karunakaran (in
case of infrastructure projects) as on 31 st March 2018 till their
resignation on appointment of new Board of Directors as per
the direction issued by NCLT. Further, the name of the
applicant was also found in the Approval Committee for
approval of various documents i.e. transaction approval
Memorandum (TAM), Advisory Approval Memorandum
(AAM), Bid submission Approval Memorandum, Investment
Approval Memorandum etc. along with Shri Ravi
Parthasarathy, Ramesh Bawa, Hari Sankaran and Arun Saha. 8 The IFIN also had an Unified Approval
Framework which mandated that all loan approvals by IFIN
Committee of Directors (COD). Asset and Structured
Finance (ASF), team was primarily involved in execution of
these transactions. The method of working disclose that all
loan approvals were to pass through the COD of IFIN and

Tilak
 13 BA 361-2020 .doc

the Asset and Structured Finance Team was involved in
execution of the transaction including client sourcing,
preparation of group approval memo, getting approval from
COD, documentation of facilitating and disbursement of
loan. The ASF team was required to discuss the proposal
with Milind Patel and Ramesh Bawa and only after their
approval on the issue of pricing, adequacy of security,
modification, extent of incremental exposure, etc. a Credit
Approval Memorandum was prepared which was routed
through various departments and then, the proposal was put
up before the approval of Committee of Directors who had
ultimate power to approve any Credit Approval
Memorandum. The IFIN loans were primarily given to corporate
business houses involved in various business. The IFIN's
main lending was to holding/promoter companies where
repayments were linked to future liquidating events rather
than confirmed cash flow out. Liquidity events were mostly
equity divestment to private equity/strategy
investors/IPO/Cell of identified assets. 9 IL&FS Transportation Networks Limited (ITNL)
was formed as a wholly owned subsidiary of IL&FS in the

Tilak
 14 BA 361-2020 .doc

year 2000. Transportation Infrastructure Development was
initially taken up in IL&FS and thereafter transportation
vertical IL&FS transportation was formed wherein the
projects undertaken and implemented by IL&FS were
domiciled. ITNL benefits significantly from its affiliation
with IL&FS which had an established track record in
promoting and financing range of public infrastructure in
India over the last decades. The applicant along with Shri
Ravi Parthasarathy, Hari Sankaran, Arun Saha was
incorporated in the Board of Directors of ITNL since 2010-
11 and continued till he resigned in the year 2018. The
applicant also continued to be in the COD of ITNL till 2018.
The brief working of ITNL was that after successful bidding
for a project, SPV was formed and named after the name of
the project to be undertaken. Subsequent to formation of
SPV, there was bidding process for award of contract and a
separate SOP was drawn. ITNL was entrusted the
responsibility of executing the entire project and from the
SOP, it is discerned that the Managing Director, the
Executive Director and the Committee of Directors had a key
role to play in execution of any project. After the company
defaulted on its loss in 2018, the Government of India took
control of the company and appointed new Board. Tilak
 15 BA 361-2020 .doc

10 In the backdrop of the said framework of the
IL&FS and its subsidiary companies, FIR No.0253 of 2018
was registered by EOW, Delhi on a complaint filed by Ashish
Begwani, Director of M/s.ENSO Infrastructure (P) Ltd
against ILFS, Rail Ltd, ILFS Transportation Networks Ltd
(ITNL), Shri Ravi Parthasarathy, Chairman and Managing
Director of IL&FS, Director of ITNL, Shri Hari Sankaran
Director of ILFS and ITNL. Ramesh Bava, Chairman and
CEO of IFIN, Ramchand Karunakaran, Managing Director
of ITNL alleging commission of offences under Section
120B , 409 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC, which fall within the
purview of scheduled offence under PMLA Part 'A'.
Accordingly, the Directorate of Enforcement, Bombay Zonal
Office-I recorded case vide ECIR MDZO-1/02/2019 dated
19th February 2019 under the provisions of PMLA against the
aforesaid entities and the accused persons which included the
applicant in the capacity of Managing Director of ITNL.
Further, against the ILFS, on 30th September 2018, the
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India directed
the Serious Fraud Investigating Office (SFIO) to conduct
investigation against the group companies of ILFS. On
investigation, SFIO filed a criminal complaint bearing No.20

Tilak
 16 BA 361-2020 .doc

of 2019 dated 30th May 2019, wherein the ILFS and the
accused persons along with M/s.Siva Group Companies and
its proprietor C. Sivasankaran and others under Section 447 of the Companies Act, 2018 read with Section 120B , 417 , 420 of IPC. Section 447 of the Companies Act also being a
scheduled offence under Para 29 of Part 'A' of PMLA, the
offence registered by SFIO was merged in ECIR dated
1/02/2019 for the purpose of investigation. The
investigation under the PMLA was thus initiated against the
entities and the individuals who have been alleged to have
committed the aforesaid scheduled offences. 11 Investigation reveal that as far as the complaint
registered by Ashish Begwani who had alleged that the
accused persons had offered to sell him aggregate of 2,62,000
shares which were held by M/s.ILFS Transportation Network
Limited in the name of ILFS Rail Ltd which were offered to
him at the price of Rs.25/- per share. Lured by a promise for
handsome returns, the complainant agreed to purchase shares
of ITNL @ Rs.10/- each at a premium of Rs.15 per share
amounting to Rs.65.50 crore. A facade was being projected
and it is alleged that in connivance and collusion with each
other, all the accused persons indulged in initially locating

Tilak
 17 BA 361-2020 .doc

and identifying dubious companies which have been engaged
in infrastructure development and later, issued fictitious
purchase orders for non-existent works. The forte of such
companies lie in providing accommodation entries in form of
bogus billing, inducting bogus share capital and advancing
unsecured loan(s) to the beneficiaries in lieu of commission.
Thus, with regard to ILFS Rail Ltd, bogus entities were
allocated bogus work orders and invoices were raised by those
companies, and the money was received and layered through
their accounts and cash was taken and handed back. The
investigation reveal a common thread in the work orders
issued to such bogus companies as nearly all the work orders
were issued to either resettle the shopkeepers or for road
repairs or road widening and it is alleged that the accused
persons siphoned a sum approximated at Rs.74.00 crores and
more. The Income Tax department also mentioned the
investigation into the bogus nature of work awarded to shell
companies in the assessment order and focused its attention
on the bogus invoices M/s.ILFS Rail Limited had procured
from such companies, leading to identification of some of the
companies but unaware of the magnitude of the fraud
perpetuated by the accused. Tilak
 18 BA 361-2020 .doc

12 The SFIO alleged that the accused persons who
were controlling day to day affairs of IFIN colluded in order
to avoid declaring non-performing asset of the defaulting
loan recipients, lent to other companies belonging to the
borrowing group for repaying the principal and/or interest of
the defaulting borrower company. The aforesaid modus
operandi was alleged to be in violation of the RBI directives.
The process was repeated on multiple occasions with the
earlier loan facility being closed and a new one being created
which was again funded, on their default through another
cycle of funding through the same or another group company.
After the scam broke off, the current outstanding final loan
facility was declared as NPA or written off, or is still shown
outstanding resulting in delayed recognition of the non-
performing assets, balloning of debt and ultimate higher
losses to IFIN and its stake holders. The lending of IFIN to
its group companies increased substantially and reached to
37% of total loans and advances in financial year 2017-18 and
to circumvent the RBI guidelines on group lending, they
devised illegal strategy for IFIN to lend money to its group
companies by routing the funds in the garb of sanctioning
loans to third party contractors of the ITNL. In order to keep

Tilak
 19 BA 361-2020 .doc

IFIN and its other group companies afloat, the accused
persons abused their position, connived and through the
fraudulent means delayed the debt classifying of the
defaulting borrower as NPA. M/s.Siva Group of Companies
connived with the top management of IFIN and received
wrongful gain in the form of loan from IFIN with no
intention to repay. Statutory auditors also played their role in
colluding and concealing the material information/facts and
fraudulently falsifying the books of accounts and also the
financial statements from the Financial Year 2014-15 to
2017-18. The Auditor did not report the true state of affairs
of the company, particularly the negative net owned fund
(NOF) and Negative Capital to Riskweight Asset Ratio
(CRAR). This resulted in loss being caused to the creditors of
the company who had lent and invested in the non-
convertible debentures. The complaint contained the minute
details in respect of lending to M/s.Siva Group. The entire
routing of fund sanctioned from IFIN in the various group of
companies of Siva Group is elaborated in form of an
annexure. The COD of IFIN in connivance with C. Siva
Sankaran continued to re-fiance huge loans to various Siva
Group Companies against which there was already a huge
outstanding. At the time of re-financing, no proper collateral

Tilak
 20 BA 361-2020 .doc

security was obtained. The said groups which were already in
financial stress were chosen, is the allegation. 13 The investigation till date has revealed that ILFS
Financial Service Ltd had the sole mandate to carry out the
debt and equity syndication for ITNL. IFIN would
approach bank, financial institutions and other market players
like Mutual Funds to source finances, to match requirements
of ITNL. The investigation has revealed that RBI in its
inspection report for the Financial Year ending on 31 st March
2016 clearly instructed IFIN to run down its exposures to
group companies with no fresh lending. The said inspection
is carried out under Section 45N of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934. In spite of the said advice, ITNL managed
to receive fund from IFIN and a new method was adopted
through companies which were their contractors or with
whom they had business relations in the past. The rate of
interest for entities/contractors which were getting loan from
IFIN was 1 to 2 % less than the rate of interest at which they
were lending to IFNL or its Special Purpose Vehicles. 14 such
companies are enlisted, through whom the amounts were
transferred to ITNL by IFIN. The statement recorded under
the PMLA reveal that thus the Directors/third parties were

Tilak
 21 BA 361-2020 .doc

instructed to transfer the loans received, either to ITNL or to
its SPV in the form of loan. By this method, ITNL and its
SPVs received huge loans and as per Grant Thorton report,
Rs.2270 crores remained outstanding against those parties to
IFIN, who in turn funded to ITNL or its SPV. It is in the
conspectus of this transaction, the applicant has been
implicated. 14 The response of ED is to the effect that the
Committee of Directors had thus created a complex system in
order to show artificially enhanced turnover and show profits
in order to increase profitability and attract capital from third
parties. This was done in order to maintain high credibility
which gave way to easy access to the loans at lower rate of
interest. The COD members have shown inflated
performance of the group in order to receive high PRP. The
accused persons received huge amount of PRP from the
financial Year 2011-12 to 2017-18. There was substantial
hike in their PRP and sitting fees for last three consecutive
financial years. The complaint give the details of the amounts
received by the accused persons and as far as the present
applicant is concerned, he is alleged to have received
Rs.14,81,87,500/- towards PRP, sitting/deputation fee to the

Tilak
 22 BA 361-2020 .doc

tune of Rs.25,09,67,490/-. 15 The attempt of Mr.Ponda is to repel the
allegations contained in the complaint. As far as the
direction issued by RBI is concerned and the allegation that
the methodology adopted was contrary to the RBI directives
issued on 1st November 2017, Mr.Ponda submit that the IFIN
is a listed company regulated by SEBI and not by RBI and it
has no power to impose a cap on its borrowings. This has no
merit. IFIN is incorporated as Asset Management Company
of IL&FS and it has obtained a non-banking Financial
Company licence. As far as ITNL is concerned, it is a wholly
owned subsidiary of IL&FS. The directives of RBI contained
in its letter dated 1st November 2017 are in pursuance of the
inspection carried out of the IL&FS Financial Services Ltd
and is under Section 45N of the RBI Act, 1934. The RBI by
virtue of the said provision is competent to cause inspection
of any non-banking institution including a financial
institution for the purposes of verifying the correctness or
completeness of any statement, information or particulars
furnished to the Bank. The RBI is also empowered to carry
out inspection of any non-banking institution, being a
financial institution if the bank considers it necessary or

Tilak
 23 BA 361-2020 .doc

expedient. The advise given is to revisit the framework for
assessing group exposure and the classification of group
companies in order to arrive at the NOF and CAR in terms
of Section 45(1)(A) , which relate to requirement of
registration before commencement of any business by a non-
banking financial institution. The registration is mandatory
before a non-banking financial company commence its
business as Non-banking Financial Institution (NBFI) and
having net owned fund of Rs.25 lakhs. The provision
inserted in the year 1997 is the reason for the inspection
carried out and and advise tendered which was directed to be
placed before the Board of Directors and action taken report
to be placed on record. Prima facie, the counsel for the
applicant is therefore not justified in making his submission
that the letter of RBI is only an advisory. The letter is
addressed to IFIN, which is a subsidiary of IL&FS and
subjected to the RBI Regime. 16 As far as the complicity of the applicant is
concerned, though Mr.Ponda has asserted that he is not
involved in the entire allegation as he is not the member of
COD of IFIN and for this purpose, he has placed reliance on
some brochure as well as the documents from Ministry of

Tilak
 24 BA 361-2020 .doc

Corporate Affairs, he is shown as Managing Director of
ITNL and a Director of IL&FS Engineering and
Construction Ltd. The profile of the applicant on the website
of Ministry of Corporate Affairs reflect him to be a Director
and Additional Director in the IL&FS subsidiaries including
the Transportation Networks Limited (ITNL) Renewable
Energy Limited, IL&FS Energy Development Co, Maritime
Infrastructure Company, ITNL Road Infrastructure
Development Company, IL&FS Asian Infrastructure
Managers Ltd, IL&FS Township and Urban Asset Ltd etc.
From the material placed by the respondent, it can be seen
that the applicant was involved in the infrastructure projects
and the documents from the Ministry of Corporate affairs
rather corroborate the submission of the respondent. He was
involved into various infrastructure projects and therefore, in
various Special Purpose vehicles or various infrastructure
Limited companies, his name feature as a Director. The
submission of Mr.Ponda therefore thus require a mention,
just for its rejection. The applicant has also received amounts
towards PRP, deputation cost and sitting fee that is clearly
reflective of the benefit being drawn by him from the dealings
of IFIN as well as IL&FS Financial Services. Reliance is
placed on statements recorded during the course of

Tilak
 25 BA 361-2020 .doc

investigation under the PMLA Act and the modus operandi
of IL&FS and its subsidiary companies has surfaced. The
PMLA Act of 2002 which aim to prevent money laundering,
it contain a provision which raises presumption as to records
or property and into interconnected transactions. By virtue of
Section 24 while dealing with proceedings relating to
proceeds of crime unless the contrary is proved, a
presumption exists that such proceeds of crime are involved,
where a person is charged with offence of money laundering.
The burden under Section 24 is cast on the accused to prove
that proceeds of crime are not involved in purchasing the
properties owned by the accused. The applicant who has
been arraigned as an accused in the capacity as the Managing
Director of ITNL and one of the members of the Committee
of Directors of IFIN (for infrastructure projects) is attributed
a key role. IFIN who was shouldering the responsibility of
syndicating the debt and equity for ITNL and ITNL would
post its requirement for the projects to IFIN, the RBI had
advised IFIN to run down its exposure to group companies
with no fresh lending. In spite of that, ITNL for whom the
applicant was working as Managing Director received fund
from IFIN. It is revealed during investigation that loans were
sanctioned to various entities who were undertaking various

Tilak
 26 BA 361-2020 .doc

projects and the applicant had given letter of assurance dated
29th March 2018 on behalf of ITNL. The CFO of one of the
groups in his statement has admitted that he had meetings
with K. Ramchand for obtaining fund from IFIN in favour
of M/s.GHV Hotels Ltd which is running in loss for last few
years which was entitled to be transferred to ITNL. As a
decision maker in the infrastructure project, the applicant
shared the same responsibility as the COD of IFIN who had
alleged to act in connivance with the promoters of the loanee
group and for not exercising due diligence and availing
personal benefit. The burden which he is expected to
discharge under the provisions of PMLA would be done by
him at the time of trial. Prima facie on the basis of the allegations levelled
against him and on the basis of the statements of the co-
accused, Arun Saha has described the applicant to be in
executive management of ITNL as Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer and his response to the query
whether ITNL had any control over the SPVs and the
contractors to whom work was allotted, is that ITNL had
control over those SPVs in which ITNL was one of the
partners and holding majority stake and that the executive
management of ITNL had a role to play by ascertaining the

Tilak
 27 BA 361-2020 .doc

genuineness, working experience, good will etc for
contractors and their companies. The applicant has played a
pivotal role since in most of the SPVs, ITNL had 100% stake.
The applicant who was working as Managing Director of
ITNL, therefore, will have to answer the charge. 17 In the backdrop of the aforesaid incriminating
material collated by the ED against the applicant, the present
application requires a consideration in light of the view which
has been echoed by the higher Courts over the years in
relation to economic offences. It is a well settled position that the jurisdiction to
grant bail has tobe exercised having regard to the facts and
circumstances. The following factors are to be taken into
consideration while considering an application for bail - (a)
The nature of accusastion and severity of the punishment in
case of conviction and nature of material relied upon by the
prosecution (b) reasonable apprehension of tampering with
the witnesses or apprehension of threat to the complainant or
the witnesses (c) reasonable possibility of securing the
presence of accused at the time of trial or the likelihood of his
abscondence (d) character, behaviour and standing of accused
and circumstances peculiar to him. (e) larger interest of public

Tilak
 28 BA 361-2020 .doc

of the State and similar other considerations. There is no
hard and fast rule regarding grant or refusal to grant bail.
Each case has to be considered on its own merit, the only
rider is that the Court has to exercise the discretion
judiciously and not arbitrarily. 18 In Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, (2013) 7 SCC 439,
Their Lordships while dealing with an offence involving
conspiracy to commit economic offence of huge magnitude
involving public monies and public properties have laid down
the following parameters. 34 Economic offences constitute a class apart and
 need to be visited with a different approach in the
 matter of bail. The economic offence having deep
 rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of public
 funds needs to be viewed seriously and considered as
 grave offences affecting the economy of the country as
 a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the
 financial health of the country. 35. While granting bail, the court has to keep in
 mind the nature of accusations, the nature of evidence
 in support thereof, the severity of the punishment
 which conviction will entail, the character of the
 accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the
 accused, reasonable possibility of securing the
 presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable
 apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with,
 the larger interests of the public/State and other

Tilak
 29 BA 361-2020 .doc

 similar considerations. 19 In Union of India v. Hassan Ali Khan , (2011) 10
SCC 235,the Apex Court has laid down that what will be the
burden of proof when attempt is made to project the proceeds
of crime as untainted money. It is held that allegations may
not ultimately be established, but having been made, the
burden of proof that the monies were not the proceeds of
crime and were not, therefore, tainted shifted on the accused
persons under Section 24 of the PML Act, 2002. Therefore, taking into account the aforesaid
proposition of law, the application for bail of the applicant
should be seen at this stage while he is involved in the
economic offence, in general, and for the offence punishable
under Section 4 of the PMLA, in particular. 20 Learned counsel Shri Ponda has heavily relied
upon the judgment of the Apex Court in P. Chidambaram vs.
DRI, 2019 SCC Online SC 1549. The said judgment will
have to be read in light of the facts involved. While testing
the judgment of the High Court which had concluded that
the triple test of flight risk, tampering with evidence and
influencing the witnesses, was in favour of the appellant, the
High Court was found to be justified in adverting to the issue

Tilak
 30 BA 361-2020 .doc

relating to gravity of the offence. On discerning the typical
facts involved that the appellant was not named as one of the
accused in the ECIR but the allegation while being made
against the co-accused, it is indicated that the appellant who
was the Finance Minister at that point has aided in illegal
transaction since one of the co-accused is the son of the
appellant. It is in this context by taking into account the
statements on record, it was noted that the complicity of the
appellant will have to be established in the trial and if
convicted, he will undergo a sentence. Noting that one of the
co-accused has already been granted bail by the High Court,
taking into account the age of the appellant and the bouts of
his illness during his incarceration, he was entitled to be
released on bail. It is in the typical facts of the case the ratio
of the judgment will have to be applied. 21 In Nikesh Tarachand Shah Vs. Union of India ,
2018(11) SCC 1, the Apex Court has reiterated the principle
concerning grant of bail being the rule and refusal being
exception and while dealing with Section 45 of the PMLA
Act which imposes twin stringent condition for offences
classified thereunder, direction was issued to reconsider all
Bail Applications denied under Section 45 on merits without
applying the twin stringent conditions. In the wake of the

Tilak
 31 BA 361-2020 .doc

said authoritative pronouncement, the complaint of the
applicant would be entitled to be considered by applying the
parameters applicable while availing bail under Section 439 of the Cr.P.C and the seriousness of the accusation, the nature
of involvement, the penalty to be imposed on conviction and
the possibility of tampering with the prosecution evidence, if
released on bail, will have to be properly weighed and each
factor be given due weightage. The magnitude of the offence involving the
applicant is enormous and the amount involved is huge. The
effect of the conspiracy on behalf of the accused persons
focusing on a desired result makes it a serious economic
offence. The IL&FS Financial Services which was facing a
serious liquidity crisis leading to their inability to fulfil debt
obligation and the investigation has revealed that those in
helm of affairs played a hoax and in a disguised way duped
the stakeholders and general public whose monies were at
stake. The Committee of Directors failed to discharge their
obligation and they were in hand-in-gloves with big corporate
groups. They continued to refinance the big groups in
connivance with their promoters, on the existing collateral or
without sufficient security merely on personal guarantees
being offered in order to avail the loans as also in re- Tilak
 32 BA 361-2020 .doc

financing. IFIN continued to project its business as healthy
and robust and maintain high rating though the Directors
continued to receive their remuneration. Investigation has
revealed that although the profit earned by IFIN was on a
decline, the PRP, commission, deputation cost, sitting fee
received by the officials of IL&FS as well as IFIN, ITNL have
increased significantly. This had a wide impact on the
economy of the country, since the IL&FS is a finance
company which subdued the equity from shareholders like
the LIC, HDFC, Central Bank of India and State Bank of
India. In light of the accusations and the manner in which
the economy of this country has been impacted, the role of
the applicant is clearly exposed. The default crisis in the
IL&FS has adversely impacted the growth of Non-banking
Finance Companies. It has jeopardised hundreds of investors,
banks and mutual funds associated with IL&FS and sparked
panic among equity investors, as several NBFC faced turmoil
amid a default scare. In the background of the accusations and its
gravity, the applicant is not entitled for being released on bail
and the application deserves to be rejected. 22 The observations made above are prima facie in
nature, on the bare reading of the complaint of the DRI and

Tilak
 33 BA 361-2020 .doc

the material collected by it during the course of investigation
and any observations made above will not be taken as a
finding recorded, relating to the alleged offence. 23 Application is rejected. SMT. BHARATI DANGRE, J

Tilak