Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been arrested in connection with Crime
 No.07/2014 registered with STF Police Station, Bhopal for the
 offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120-B of I.P.C. and Section 3(g) 1 , 2 read with Section 4 of the
 M.P. Recognize Examination Act, 1937 - commonly known as
 Vyapam Examination Scam Cases. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is
 that he had parted with sum of Rs.20,20,000/- to facilitate his
 son- Sahil Jain to indulge in unfair means during the subject
 examination. In that, some impersonator was engaged to
 appear for the applicant's son during the examination. According to the prosecution, an amount of Rs. Two lacs
 was deposited directly in the bank account of Rakesh Patel.
 This position has been revealed during the investigation. The
 remaining amount of Rupees Eighteen lacs Twenty thousand
 was handed over to Hardik Patel by Sahil. The said Hardik
 Patel retained sum of Rs.1,20,000/- for himself towards his
 commission and made over sum of Rupees Seventeen lacs to
 the racketeers, who in turn were to arrange for the
 impersonator. The facts remains that after the arrest of the
 applicant, charge-sheet has already been filed on 3.8.2014.
That presupposes that investigation against the applicant is
complete as of now. The applicant, through counsel, undertakes that as and
when his presence is required by the Investigating Officer, he
would make himself available during such period without fail
and also punctually appear before the trial Court during the
trial for ensuring speedy trial of the case. As aforesaid the role of the applicant is only of handing
over sum of Rs.20,20,000/- to his son Sahil Jail and nothing
more. Even if that case is to be accepted as it is, at the best it
would indicate that the applicant knowingly handed over such
huge amount to his son who in turn indulged in unfair means
during the examination and thereby contributed in commission
of the alleged offence. But, as the investigation is complete and
the applicant undertakes to extend full cooperation for further
investigation and also to ensure speedy trial, in the interest of
justice, we deem it appropriate to release the applicant on bail
on strict conditions. The applicant has not been named in any other offence of
similar type. The applicant's son has already been released on
bail who was arrested in connection with the same offence. The counsel for the State, on instructions, submits that
custodial interrogation of the applicant is not necessary for the
time being unless further investigation is necessitated. The
applicant having assured to extend full cooperation to the
 Investigating Officer, we accede to his request for grant of bail
on the following strict conditions. Taking overall view, in the interest of justice, the
application is allowed and the applicant is directed to be
released on bail on following conditions to be strictly observed
by the applicant:- (Rupees Five Lac) with two solvent local
 sureties in the like amount to the satisfaction of
 the Trial Court for his regular appearance during
 the trial in connection with Crime No.07/2014
 in Police Station STF, Bhopal; (2) The applicant shall also comply with the
 conditions enumerated under Section 437 (3) of
 Cr.P.C. meticulously; (3) Additionally, the applicant will report to the
 nearest Police Station Chandloriya, Ahmedabad
 (Gujarat) where he would reside once a week on
 every Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
 unless required to attend the office of the
 Investigating Officer at Bhopal on that day; and
 (4) The applicant will deposit his passport, if
 available, with the Investigating Agency, else
 file affidavit in this Court declaring that the
 applicant does not have any passport of any
 country. This compliance will be condition
 precedent for release on bail. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.