Heard counsel for the parties. This application is for grant of anticipatory
bail by the suspect in Crime No.266/2012
registered at Police Station Gopalganj, District
Sagar for offence punishable under sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 120-B , 417 I.P.C. and
section 3(gha)2/4 of the M.P. Recognized
Examination Act 1937 - commonly known as
VYAPAM Examination Scam cases. The role ascribed to the applicant is that he
impersonated Yogendra Sachan during the
examination conducted by VYAPAM in 2010 and
thereby committed unfair means during the
examination. The applicant is resident of Uttar
Pradesh. He impersonated candidate who is also
resident of Uttar Pradesh in District Kanpur. The
applicant was given liberty to appear before
 the Investigating Officer being a student of final
MBBS which was availed by the applicant,
however, according to the Investigating Officer
that did not yield any positive outcome.
Inasmuch as the applicant whilst admitting that he
had filled the application form of Yogendra Sachan
in his hand writing but revealed the details of the
persons involved in the commission of offence,
which information has been found to be
misleading and incorrect. It is for that reason the
Investigating Officer is of the opinion that
custodial interrogation is the only way forward for
completing the investigation. Counsel for the applicant on the other hand
submits that the applicant has already furnished
information within his knowledge and that the
applicant has no criminal antecedent, coupled
with the fact that the applicant appeared before
the Investigating Officer and revealed all
information including admission of having filled in
the form of the original candidate Yogendra
Sachan. No doubt, the applicant is a student of final
MBBS, however, the offence in question is a
serious offence involving life sentence. Further,
 the investigation is not making any headway
because of the misleading information furnished
by the applicant as is stated by the Investigating
Officer in the note submitted in sealed cover. The
said note also reveals that telephone numbers
furnished by the applicant pertain to some other
person and not of the persons involved in the
offence in question. Suffice it to observe that the
Investigating Officer is of the opinion that
custodial interrogation is the only way forward for
the investigation of the crime in absence of the
other clues available during the investigation
already done by him. The efficacy of custodial
interrogation has been expounded by the Supreme
Court in the case of CBI Vs. Anil Sharma, AIR
1997 SC 3806. In paragraph 6 of the said decision,
the Apex Court has observed thus :- Taking overall view of the matter, considering
the fact that the applicant had admitted having
filled in the form of original candidate and has not
offered any explanation as to how his photograph
is appearing in the form of Yogendra Sachan and
that the information furnished by the applicant to
the Investigating Officer has not yielded any
positive results rather have been found to be
misleading the investigation, no case for grant of
anticipatory bail is made out. Rejected.
 The information (note) submitted by the
Investigating Officer through Mr. P.K. Kaurav
 is directed to be kept in sealed cover in the
 custody of Registrar (J).