This criminal original petition has been filed for quashing the First

 Information Report in Crime No.136 of 2020 registered on the file of the

 Inspector of Police, Melapalayam police station, Tirunelvlei District for

 the offences under Sections 292A, 295A and 505(2) of I.P.C. 2.The defacto complainant is the second respondent herein. He is

 a member of Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam. After watching

 the video uploaded by the petitioner on the YouTube platform on

 03.04.2020 at 11.00 PM, he lodged information before the first

 respondent on the next day leading to registration of the impugned FIR.

 In his complaint, the second respondent alleged that the petitioner had

 falsely spoken that the attendees of Tablighi Jamaat conference held in

 March 2020 at New Delhi were spreading Covid-19 ; he also insulted

 Islam with an intention to create ill-will and discord between Muslims

 and non-Muslims. 3.The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner reiterated the

 contentions set out in the memorandum of grounds and contended that

 the petitioner as a responsible YouTuber and commentator on current

 affairs had merely exercised his right to free speech. According to him,

 the petitioner had not committed any of the offences set out in the FIR.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 2/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021 4.The learned Advocate General called upon this Court to bear in

 mind the conduct of the petitioner. The petitioner after obtaining

 anticipatory bail from the Principal Sessions Court, Tirunelveli, did not

 surrender and execute sureties. That is why, he has been arrested.

 The first respondent had filed an application for taking the petitioner to

 police custody. The jurisdictional magistrate is actively seized of the

 petition. Investigation commenced only recently. This Court may

 therefore allow the legal process to take its normal course. The

 petitioner is a prominent social media personality. He ought to have

 been responsible while putting out his views. The video presentation

 runs to twenty seven minutes. The petitioner has used potentially

 provocative expressions. It is not necessary that public tranquility must

 have been actually disturbed as a result of the petitioner's act. It is

 enough if it is shown that there was a likelihood of breach of peace. He

 relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in (2021)

 1 SCC 1 ( Amish Devgan vs. Union of India ). 5.The learned counsel appearing for the defacto complainant

 apart from adopting the stand of the learned Advocate General added

 that the complaint makes out the offences under Section 153 A of IPC

 and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. According to
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 3/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021

 him, the petitioner had conducted himself with scant regard for truth.

 He tried to create a false alarm as if because of the attendees of the

 aforesaid conference, the pandemic would sweep the entire country.

 The presentation of the petitioner was replete with references to Islam

 and terrorism. Any normal person watching the video would develop

 feelings of ill-will and hatred towards Muslims. The Constitution of India

 imposes a duty on the citizens to uphold the pluralistic character of the

 society. The defacto complainant had only fulfilled this duty by lodging

 the impugned complaint. He called for dismissal of the quash petition. 6.I carefully considered the rival contentions and went through

 the materials on record. 7.Only in the second half of March, 2020, the nation became

 aware of the attack of Covid-19 pandemic. The Government of India

 announced stiff lock down measures. Life came to a complete standstill.

 Congregations and meetings were totally banned. When it became

 known that a huge conference was held at Nizamuddin Markaz, New

 Delhi in March 2020 and that it was attended by delegates from all over

 the world and that many of them were still staying huddled in the

 Markaz campus and elsewhere, there was a hysterical reaction all over
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 4/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021

 the country including the media. Delegates from across India including

 Tamil Nadu had attended the conference and returned to their

 respective states. The desperate state governments and local

 administrations made fervent appeals to the returnees to report before

 the nearest health centres for testing. I can take judicial notice of the

 fact that many such returnees did test positive and were quarantined. 8.The Tablighi event was uniformly characterized as a super-

 spreader. As a prominent commentator dealing with current affairs, the

 petitioner in his YouTube channel spoke on the subject. It is this that

 has given rise to the impugned prosecution. The transcript of the entire

 video has been made available. I carefully went through the same. I

 am now called upon to determine whether the content constitutes the

 offences set out in the complaint. 9. Section 292A of IPC is as follows : https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 7/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021

 Explanation II – In deciding whether any person
 has committed an offence under this section, the court
 shall have regard, inter alia, to the following
 considerations- Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1960, Section 3 (w.e.f. 9.11.1960). Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1984.
 Inserted ibid.”

 This provision will be attracted only if the offending video contains

 statements or materials which are grossly indecent, or scurrilous or

 intended for blackmail. “Indecent” relates to something morally

 offensive because it involves sex or being naked. “Scurrilous” means

 something that is very rude and insulting and intended to damage

 somebody's reputation. “Blackmail” refers to the crime of demanding

 money from a person by threatening to make a revelation about him.

 I have relied on the meanings assigned to the said expressions in
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 8/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021

 Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary. One can very easily come to the

 conclusion that the primary object of Section 292A of IPC is to come

 down heavily on what is known in common parlance as “Yellow

 Journalism”. Bona fide expressions of opinions on public questions or

 issues of public importance cannot be construed as scurrilous. I fail to

 understand as to how such a provision can be invoked in this case. 10. Section 295A of IPC is as follows : 11.The next question that falls for consideration is whether the

 ingredients of Section 505 (2) of IPC are present. The said provision

 reads as follows : In Manzar Sayeed Khan and Ors. vs. State of Maharashtra and

 Ors (2007) 5 SCC 1, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows : “16. Section 153A of IPC, as extracted
 hereinabove, covers a case where a person by words,
 either spoken or written, or by signs or by visible

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 12/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021

 representations or otherwise, promotes or attempts to
 promote, disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or
 ill-will between different religious, racial, language or
 regional groups or castes or communities or acts
 prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony or is likely
 to disturb the public tranquility. The gist of the offence
 is the intention to promote feelings of enmity or
 hatred between different classes of people. The
 intention to cause disorder or incite the people to
 violence is the sine qua non of the offence under Section 153A of IPC and the prosecution has to prove
 prima facie the existence of mens rea on the part of
 the accused. The intention has to be judged primarily
 by the language of the book and the circumstances in
 which the book was written and published. The
 matter complained of within the ambit of Section
 153A must be read as a whole. One cannot rely on
 strongly worded and isolated passages for proving the
 charge nor indeed can one take a sentence here and
 a sentence there and connect them by a meticulous
 process of inferential reasoning. 17. In Ramesh Chotalal Dalal v. Union of India and : [1988]2SCR1011 , this Court held that TV serial
 "Tamas" did not depict communal tension and
 violence and the provisions of Section 153A of IPC
 would not apply to it. It was also not prejudicial to the

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 13/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021

 national integration falling under Section 153B of IPC. Approving the observations of Vivian Bose, J. in
 Bhagvati Charan Shukla v. Provincial Government AIR
 1947 Nagpur 1, the Court observed that the effect of
 the words must be judged from the standards of
 reasonable, strong-minded, firm and courageous men,
 and not those of weak and vacillating minds, nor of
 those who scent danger in every hostile point of view.
 It is the standard of ordinary reasonable man or as
 they say in English Law, "the man on the top of a
 clapham omnibus. 18.Again in Bilal Ahmed Kaloo v. State of A.P. 1997CriLJ4091, it is held that the common feature in
 both the Sections, viz., Sections 153A and 505(2),
 being promotion of feeling of enmity, hatred or ill-will
 "between different" religious or racial or linguistic or
 regional groups or castes and communities, it is
 necessary that at least two such groups or
 communities should be involved. Further, it was
 observed that merely inciting the feeling of one
 community or group without any reference to any
 other community or group cannot attract either of the
 two Sections.”

 The petitioner's video does not involve two groups at all. There is no

 reference to religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 14/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021

 community. The Hon'ble Supreme Court had clearly held that unless

 one group is sought to be pitted against the other on the

 aforementioned grounds, the penal provisions are not at all attracted. It is on this ground Amish Devgan case relied on by the respondents is

 distinguishable. The religious element was so obvious in the said case.

 Even in Amish Devgan, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the

 question of intent would be relevant. The petitioner's intention was that

 the spread of the pandemic must be stopped. He wanted the persons

 who attended the conference to co-operate with the administration and

 the health workers. “Contact tracing” was then a new addition to the

 national vocabulary. The cyber cell of the state police was effectively

 deployed to trace not only the attendees of the conference but also

 everyone else who came in contact with them. The petitioner nowhere

 spoke in a divisive manner. In fact, he did not even challenge the

 ideology of Tablighi Jamaat which has now been proscribed as a

 terrorist organization by Saudi Arabian Government. He was directing

 his criticism only at a section of the attendees. One cannot lose sight of

 the fact that India is seen as a soft target by global terror networks.

 That a number of persons have been misled in the name of religion and

 turned terrorists is a reality. Terrorism can take any form. When

 pandemic struck, it was seen as another form of bio-warfare. Such
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 15/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021

 reports were very much made even in the mainstream media.

 Therefore, the petitioner cannot be blamed or faulted for having voiced

 his apprehensions. The petitioner held aloft icons such as Shri.Azim

 Premji. This shows that the petitioner never intended to cause any

 feeling of alienation in the Muslim community. A reading of the entire

 transcript of the video in question gives an impression that the

 petitioner wanted everyone to stand together with the administration in

 a time of grave health emergency. 12.The petitioner as a YouTuber actively commenting on current

 issues is entitled to the protection of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.

 The petitioner has relied solely on the news resources then available in

 the public domain. Criticism of an organization cannot be taken as a

 criticism of a community. Tablighi Jamaat cannot be equated with Islam.

 It is a religious organization professing particular goals. No one can

 deny that Tablighi Jamaat came under severe and harsh criticism for its

 reckless and irresponsible conduct during March 2020. There are

 established reports that its puritanical and revivalistic project prepares

 the ground for islamic radiclation. Probably that is why even Saudi

 Arabia has recently banned it as a terrorist organization.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 16/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021 13.In Vinod Dua vs. Union of India (UOI) and Ors. AIR

 2021 SC 3239, the Hon'ble Supreme Court clarified that every

 journalist will be entitled to protection in terms of Kedar Nath Singh as

 every prosecution under Section 124A IPC and 505 IPC must be in strict

 conformity with the scope and ambit of the said Sections as explained

 in, and completely in tune with the law laid down therein. After so

 holding, the Hon'ble Supreme Court quashed the FIR registered against

 the petitioner by invoking Article 32 of the Constitution of India. 14.The petitioner was granted anticipatory bail in this case. Due

 to the pandemic-induced lockdown, the petitioner did not surrender and

 execute sureties. This has been taken advantage of by the state police.

 The petitioner is under arrest. In these circumstances, since the liberty

 of the petitioner was involved, the quash petition was taken up for

 disposal. The prosecution was sought to be sustained by none other

 than the learned Advocate General of the State. The counsel for the

 defacto complainant also argued elaborately. After a careful

 consideration of the rival submissions, I come to the conclusion that

 none of the ingredients of any of the offences are present in this case.

 The very registration of the impugned FIR is illegal and it stands

 quashed. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 17/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021 15.The criminal original petition stands allowed. Connected

 miscellaneous petition is closed. 23.12.2021

 Index : Yes / No
 Internet : Yes/ No
 skm

 Note : Issue order copy today. Note: In view of the present lock down owing to COVID-19
 pandemic, a web copy of the order may be utilized for official
 purposes, but, ensuring that the copy of the order that is
 presented is the correct copy, shall be the responsibility of the
 advocate/litigant concerned. To: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 18/19 CRL.O.P.(MD)NO. 20560 OF 2021

 G.R.SWAMINATHAN, J. skm

 Crl.O.P.(MD)No.20560 of 2021
 and
 CRL.M.P.(MD)No.11714 of 2021

 23.12.2021

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 19/19