Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been arrested on 27/10/2014 in
connection with Crime No.02/2014 registered with Police
Station S.T.F., Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM
Examination Scam cases - for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 120-B of IPC and
Section 3D (1) read with Section 2/4 of M.P. Recognized
Examination Act, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution, is
that, he participated in the examination conducted by
VYAPAM and impersonated Shailendra Parmar. The applicant
was engaged by one Naman Kumar Bhandari, who has already
been arrested. Shailendra Parmar has also been arrested and
later on released on bail. Charge-sheet has been filed against
the applicant on 15/11/2014. It is, fairly, accepted by the respondent that custodial
interrogation of the applicant is no more required in connection
with the subject crime, as of now. The applicant through counsel undertakes to extend full
 cooperation to the Investigating Officer for further
investigation including against the applicant. The applicant
also undertakes to punctually appear before the Trial Court to
ensure early disposal of the trial. The applicant has also
assured to abide by any other strict condition that may be
imposed by the Court. Since the applicant was arrested only after resorting to
proceedings under Section 82 of the Criminal Procedure Code,
we agree with the submission made by the counsel for the
State that the surety amount should not be less than Rs.5.00
lacs as regards this accused. Accordingly, although the applicant is ordered to be
released on bail, to re-assure that the applicant will not misuse
the bail and flee from the ends of justice, we accede to the
suggestion made by the respondent to provide for surety
amount of Rs.5.00 lacs. Hence application is allowed and the
applicant is ordered to be released on bail in connection with
Crime No.02/2014 on following strict conditions : The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.