Heard counsel for the parties. This is a second bail application filed under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. by the applicants. The applicants have been arrested
in connection with Crime No.266/2012 registered with S.T.F.
Police Station Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM
examination scam cases - for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 109 and 120 of I.P.C.
and also under Section 3 (D) (2) / 4 of the Madhya Pradesh
Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicants is that of beneficiaries.
The Applicant No.1 allegedly took assistance of one Hemant
Shakya, who arranged for Dipak Shakya to appear for him as
impersonator during the examination. The Applicant No.2, on
the other hand, contacted Gyan Singh to help him during the
Vyapam Examination to secure good marks. In other words,
Hemant Shakya and Gyan Singh acted as middlemen to
facilitate the Application No.1 and Applicant No.2 respectively
in commission of unfair means during the subject examination. As regards Applicant No.2, it has come on record that
Gyan Singh, who acted as middleman, is reportedly dead. The
 Investigating Officer made inquiries to reassure himself that the
dead person was the same person with whom the Applicant
No.2 had interacted in commission of the alleged crime. He has
placed his satisfaction in that behalf on record. Since no further
clue is possible after the death of Gyan Singh coupled with the
fact that the charge sheet has already been filed against the
Applicant No.2 on 11.9.2014, which presupposes that the
investigation qua him was complete unless further investigation
was required against him after new revelations. However, since
the arrest of Gyan Singh is not possible being a dead person, the
applicant need not be kept in jail any further especially when
charge sheet has already been filed on 14.9.2014. There is no
certainty of early conclusion of the trial as large number of
students are named as accused and witnesses in the Vyapam
Examination Scam Cases. The Applicant No.2, through counsel undertakes to extend
full cooperation to the Investigating Officer for further
investigation of the case, if and when required including against
him. Further the Applicant No.2 also undertakes that he would
punctually appear before the Trial Court during the trial to
facilitate early disposal of the trial. Taking overall view of the matter and in the interest of
justice, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to Applicant No.2
on the conditions which will be spelt out hereinafter. Reverting back to Applicant No.1, he was assisted by one
Hemant Shakya. Initially the Investigating Officer was given to
 understand that Hemant Shakya, who is in Gwalior jail in
connection with some other offence is the same Hemant Shakya
with whom Applicant No.1 had interacted. Applicant No.1,
however, after filing of charge sheet on 11.9.2014, when called
upon to identify the said Hemant Shakya lodged in Gwalior jail,
stated that the said person was not the same with whom he had
interacted. In other words, Hemant Shakya lodged in Gwalior jail is
not the same Hemant Shakya with whom the Applicant No.1
had interacted. After this disclosure was made by the Applicant
No.1, the Investigating Officer has prepared posters of Hemant
Shakya on the basis of the information furnished to him, inter
alia, by the Applicant No.1. The Investigating Officer has not
been able to obtain any further clues regarding the whereabouts
of Hemant Shakya, who acted as middleman for Applicant
No.1. The Applicant No.1 cannot be kept in jail for indefinite
period merely because of failure of the Investigating Officer in
not tracing the real middleman Hemant Shakya. The role
ascribed to Applicant No.1, as aforesaid, is only that of
beneficiary. The Applicant No.1 has throughout cooperated
during investigation as can be discerned from the record and
even the subsequent conduct referred to above. Taking overall view of the matter, as the applicant No.1
through counsel undertakes that if and when required in future
he will make himself available before the Investigating Officer
in connection with the further investigation of the crime
 including against the applicant and that he shall punctually
appear before the Trial Court during the trail to ensure speedy
disposal of the trial, in the interest of justice, even applicant
No.1 deserves to be granted bail on the conditions as may be
specified hereinafter. Accordingly, this application is allowed and both the
applicants are directed to be enlarged on bail on following strict
conditions :-