1. The above noted accused have been chargesheeted
for having committed the offences punishable u/s.376 / 420 / 120B / 366 / 365 / 506 / 120B IPC. It is alleged that the accused in pursuance
to a criminal conspiracy hatched by all of them cheated the
prosecutrix by inducing her to deliver a sum of Rs.45,000/- to them
in lieu of a job with some reputed airlines, abducted her from her
house, confined her in a house at West Patel Nagar, got her
married to accused Amit Kumar deceitfully as well as forcibly who
thereafter committed sexual intercourse with her against her
consent. 2. It is the case of the prosecution that on 28.3.2008, the
prosecutrix namely 'N' (real name withheld in order to conceal her
identity) submitted a written complaint to ACP CAW Cell, Kirti
Nagar, New Delhi, alleging torture, harassment and cruelties by
the accused in relation to dowry demands as well as cheating,
impersonation and forcible marriage. The gist of her complaint is
mentioned herein below : 3. It is further the case of the prosecution that after
receipt of the aforesaid complaint of the prosecutrix, conciliation
proceedings were held between prosecutrix and her husband Amit
Pal Walia. However, no settlement could be reached and SC No.76/13. Page 7 of 67 accordingly FIR No.139/08, u/s.498A/406/34 IPC , was registered in
P.S. Bindapur and the investigation was entrusted to SI Sri Krishan.
The IO conducted raids on the hide outs of the accused but could
not find them. Further investigation was transferred to DIU West
and entrusted to Inspector Ran Singh. Meanwhile, the prosecutrix
filed an application before the court of concerned Ld. Magistrate
alleging that the police officials have not considered her
complaint properly and FIR has been registered under wrong
provisions of law. Prayer was made to add sections
365 / 366 / 420 / 376 / 120B IPC to the FIR. Inspector Ran Singh
recorded the statement of the prosecutrix and her mother and
accordingly added sections 420 / 120B / 365 / 366 / 342 / 376 IPC to the
case. Statement of the prosecutrix u/s.164 Cr.PC was got recorded
on 14.7.2008 and she was got medically examined in DDU Hospital
on 15.7.2008. Inspector Ran Singh collected various documents
from the prosecutrix and her family relating to the case and also
collected treatment papers of the prosecutrix from Kolmet
Hospital, Karol Bagh, New Delhi, where she remained admitted
from 08.10.2007 to 12.10.2007. Amit Kumar came to be arrested
on 29.7.2008. He is stated to have made disclosure statement
admitting his involvement in the commission of offence and also
got recovered Tata Indigo car bearing registration no.
DL-9CQ-1621, in which the prosecutrix had been abducted from
her house on 12.10.2007. The car was seized by the IO.
Statements of various witnesses were recorded. Other accused
Charu Singh was also arrested. However, Amit Pal Walia and
Sukhdev Singh could not be arrested despite search and
accordingly, Charge Sheet was filed without waiting for arrest of
these two accused. 4. Later on, accused Amit Pal Walia came to be arrested
on 27.9.2008 but accused Sukhdev could not be arrested despite
intense efforts. Ultimately, Sukhdev Singh was granted
anticipatory bail by the concerned Sessions Court on 14.11.2008.
Accordingly, a Supplementary Charge Sheet was filed. The
supplementary Charge Sheet was then clubbed with the main
Charge Sheet and both were tried together. 5. Upon committal of the case to the court of Sessions,
Charges u/s.120B IPC, u/s.420/120B IPC , u/s.366/120B IPC , u/s.
365/120B IPC and u/s.506 / 120B IPC were framed against all the
accused on 01.7.2009. Additional Charge u/s.376 IPC was framed
on the same date against accused Amit Pal Walia. The accused
pleaded not guilty to the Charge framed against them and
accordingly trial was held. 6. The prosecution has examined following 24 witnesses
to prove the charges against the accused : According to him, the Tata Indigo car bearing
 registration no.DL-9CQ-1621 was in the name of his
 brother Om Pal and the same was seized by the
 police officials from his house on 30.72008 vide
 seizure memo Ex.PW3/A. He also deposed that
 accused Amit Pal Walia refused to accept the service
 of any driver other than Amit Kumar. (4) PW4 is Dr. Aruna Singh, who had examined the
 prosecutrix in Casualty and prepared MLC Ex.PW4/A.
 (5) PW5 is HC Ramfal, who was the MHC(M) in P.S.
 Bindapur in the year 2007 - 08. (6) PW6 is Const. Ram Kumar. He was alongwith
 Inspector Ran Singh when accused Amit Kumar was
 arrested on 29.7.2008 at the instance of the
 prosecutrix near Sulabh Sauchalaya in Mehram
 Nagar, Delhi Cantt. vide arrest memo Ex.PW6/A. He is
 also a witness to the disclosure statement of the
 accused Amit Kumar Ex.PW6/C.
 (7) PW7 is WSI Uma Bhardwaj, who was posted at CAW
 Cell, West District, in the year 2008 and had
 conducted counselling between the prosecutrix and
 accused Amit Pal Walia. She had sought permission
 for registration of the FIR u/s.406 / 498A / 34 IPC.
 (8) PW8 is Sh. Kamal Chandna. He is UDC in Transport
 Office, District South West, Palam and proved the
 registration record of the vehicle no.DL-9CQ-1621.
 (9) PW9 is Smt. Prabha Aggarwal. She is the mother of
 the prosecutrix. Her deposition would be discussed in SC No.76/13. Page 10 of 67 detail in the later part of the judgment. (10) PW10 is ASI Radhey Shyam. He was the Duty
 Officer in P.S. Bindapur on the night intervening
 between 21 - 22.5.2008 and had received the
 complaint of the prosecutrix marked by SHO and on
 the basis of the same recorded the FIR Ex.PW10/A.
 (11) PW11 is Sh. Pooran Chand. He was the Metropolitan
 Magistrate on 14.7.2008 and had recorded the
 statement u/s.164 Cr.PC Ex.PW11/A of the
 prosecutrix. (12)PW12 is Sh. Pradeep Kumar. He is the photographer
 and had taken photographs and video of the marriage
 of the prosecutrix with Amit Pal Walia on 17.10.2007.
 He had been called there by accused Amit Kumar. He
 deposed that he did not find any priest or any guest
 in the house and he was told that the marriage has
 already been performed. He also deposed that
 atmosphere in the house was not of a marriage. He
 proved the photographs taken by him as Ex.PW1/D1
 to Ex.PW1/D19. (13) PW13 is Sh. Om Pal. He is the owner of the Tata
 Indigo car bearing registration no.DL-9CQ-1621 which
 was being run in travel agency under the name and
 style of Rohit Tour and Travels. (14) PW14 is HC Pooran Mal. He had taken the exhibits
 of the case to FSL on 11.11.2008 and 12.11.2008. (15) PW15 is Const. Hari Om, who was posted as
 Constable in DIU South West, Sector-9 Dwarka, and
 accused Sukhdev had been formally arrested in his SC No.76/13. Page 11 of 67 presence vide memo Ex.PW15/A.
 (16) PW16 is Dr. Rita Ranjan. She had come to depose
 in place of Dr. Preeti Gupta, who had conducted
 gynaecological examination of the prosecutrix and
 identified the signatures of Dr. Preeti Gupta on the
 MLC at point A.
 (17) PW17 is Sh. Rakesh Kumar Sadh. He is the owner of
 house no.B-48, Lajpat Nagar-I, New Delhi-24, who had
 rented out the ground floor of the same to accused
 Amit Pal Walia. He deposed that Amit Pal Walia was
 residing there alongwith his wife and mother. (18)PW18 is Sh. Ajay. He was the Assistant Branch
 Manager of Karnataka Bank, Lajpat Nagar, New Delhi,
 and proved the account opening form pertaining to
 bank account no.5472500100261301 upon in the
 name of Simran Pal w/o Sh. Amit. (19)PW19 is Sh. Rohtash Singh. He is an LDC from
 Transport Authority, Sheikh Sarai, New Delhi, but not
 produced the summoned record as same could not be
 retrieved. (20) PW20 is Smt. Kamlesh Khanna. She was running a
 grocery shop in Lajpat Nagar and had deposed that
 accused Amit and his wife used to purchase grocery
 items from his shop. Amit's wife Simran had also
 borrowed some money from her. Accused Amit also
 had taken Rs.4 lacs from her on the pretext of
 sending her as well as her husband to USA. (21) PW21 is Sh. Subhash Chand Sharma. He is a
 photographer and on the instructions of police SC No.76/13. Page 12 of 67 officials, he had taken photographs of house in Hari
 Enclave in presence of accused Amit. He also
 deposed that accused Amit opened the lock of the
 door and upon search of the house, police had
 recovered one passport of Karnataka Bank, which was
 seized vide memo Ex.PW1/G.
 (22) PW22 is Inspector Ran Singh. He was the initial IO
 of the case and had arrested accused Amit Kumar,
 accused Charu Singh and accused Amit Pal Walia. (23) PW23 is Inspector Satish Kain, who was also the IO
 of this case for some period of time and had sent the
 exhibits of the case to FSL. He had formally arrested
 accused Sukhdev Singh. (24) PW24 is Sh. Manoj Kumar Pandey. He was the Chief
 Editor of the newspaper (Poll India Newspaper) in the
 year 2008 and according to him, accused Amit Pal
 was given job in the said newspaper in the year 2007
 as a Reporter. Amit Pal had worked with them about
 15 to 20 days and thereafter stopped reporting for
 duty. He had handed over the documents of accused
 Amit Pal Walia to the police officials. 7. The accused were examined u/s.313 Cr.PC on
24.7.2013. All of them denied the incriminating facts and
circumstances put to them and claimed false implication. Accused
Amit Pal Walia further stated that he has been falsely implicated in
this case by the mother of the prosecutrix as she was not happy
with his marriage with the prosecutrix. He also stated that the
prosecutrix had undergone abortion as per her own wish despite SC No.76/13. Page 13 of 67 advise against it by him as well as the doctor. 8. The accused have examined two witnesses in their
defence. DW1 is Dr. Harish Tyagi, Consultant Medicine, Kolmet
Hospital, Pusa Road, New Delhi, and proved the treatment record
of the prosecutrix when she was admitted in their hospital from
081.0.2007 to 12.10.2007 as Ex.DW1/A (colly). DW2 is HC Brahm
Swaroop from PCR North West zone, Model Town, Delhi and
proved DD No.30A dated 26.3.2008 recorded in P.S. Sultanpuri at
5.50 p.m. 9. I have heard Ld. APP, Ld. Counsel for the accused and
have perused the entire documentary as well as oral evidence on
record. 10. It was submitted by the Ld. APP as well as Ld. Counsel
for the complainant/prosecutrix that the prosecutrix fell into the
trap which was laid by the accused pursuant to a well hatched
conspiracy to cheat her and blackmail her. It was submitted that
the evidence on record establishes that all the four accused were
conducting themselves according to a definite plan. The
prosecutrix was made to believe by accused Amit Kumar and Amit
Pal Walia that they would secure her a good job in a reputed
airlines in pursuance to which she handed over certificates as well
as requisite money to them. She was taken for false interview
twice to Mumbai and thereafter on the pretext of a third interview,
she was taken from her residence and held captive in Patel Nagar
house of accused Sukhdev, where she was pressurized to
solemnize marriage with accused Amit Pal Walia. Despite her SC No.76/13. Page 14 of 67 initial resistance, she had to give in on account of hostile
atmosphere all around her. She was forced to put a garland
around the neck of accused Amit Pal Walia, who put vermilion
upon her forehead just to instill a belief in her mind that she has
married to accused Amit Pal Walia. It is submitted that the
prosecutrix was misled in believing that she is the legally wedded
wife of accused Amit Pal Walia and accordingly she gave her
consent for sexual intercourse with accused Amit Pal Walia. It is
submitted that in fact the so called marriage between the
prosecutrix and Amit Pal Walia is no marriage in the eyes of law,
firstly for the reason that essential ceremonies requisite for a
Hindu marriage i.e. Saptpadi etc. were not performed and
secondly for the reason that accused Amit Pal Walia was already a
married man and hence the sexual intercourse committed by
accused Amit Pal Walia with the prosecutrix amounts to rape as
the consent for the same given by the prosecutrix was not free
and fair. It is submitted that the case is fully covered by Clause
Fourthly contained in section 375 of Indian Penal Code. It is further
submitted that all the four accused were acting in tandem with
each other and were playing their rules as agreed upon by them,
which shows that all were acting pursuant to a conspiracy. It is
further submitted that nothing contrary to the prosecution case
has been elicited in the cross examination of any of the
prosecution witnesses and all the accused are liable to be
convicted for the offences for which they have been charged with. 11. Per Contra, Ld. Counsel for the accused submitted that
from the initial complaint of the prosecutrix itself, on the basis of
which FIR has been registered u/s.498A / 406 / 34 IPC, it is evident SC No.76/13. Page 15 of 67 that there was a proper marriage between her and accused Amit
Pal Walia. It is submitted that the marriage was performed with
the consent and approval of parents of the prosecutrix, which is
evident from the dowry articles given by them to the prosecutrix, a
list of which has been annexed alongwith aforesaid complaint. It is
further submitted that the mother of the prosecutrix has admitted
in her cross examination that the prosecutrix and accused Amit Pal
Walia used to visit their house after the marriage and she had
given the gifts to them on every occasion. It is submitted that from
the facts which have come out in the cross examination of the
prosecutrix, it is manifest that she had solemnized the marriage
with accused Amit Pal Walia willingly and without any force, fraud
or pressure. It was further contended that there is no reliable
evidence on record to suggest that accused Amit Pal Walia was
already married to some other lady. It is further submitted that the
physical relations between the prosecutrix and accused Amit Pal
Walia do not amount to offence of rape as they are legally wedded
husband and wife. It is further submitted that the charges framed
against other three accused have also remained to be proved by
the prosecution and therefore, all the four accused are liable to be
acquitted. 12. The prosecutrix has been examined as PW1. She has
deposed that she has done a course from Frankfin Institute of Air
Hostesses Training in Aviation Hospitablity, Travel & Tourism
Industry from Rajouri Garden Branch, New Delhi. After completion
of course, she had applied for job as a Cabin Crew in different
airlines. On 13.8.2007 at about 4 p.m., she was present at her
home, one Amit Kumar called her from telephone no.9211078033 SC No.76/13. Page 16 of 67 p.m. on her mobile no.9891354915. He introduced himself as Amit
Kumar, a Crime Reporter, Star News and told her that he had
received her resumes through one person namely Deepak or
Dinesh and that he can arrange for her job with some airlines. She
told him that Deepak/Dinesh returned her resume on account of
some objection regarding my height in respect of job in Spice Jet
Airlines. She asked Amit Kumar as to the name of the airlines
where he can get her job arranged. He told that Indian Airlines had
advertised some vacancies on which she asked for the eligibility
criteria. On this, Amit Kumar handed over phone to other person
namely Amit Pal Walia. He also told her that he was working as
Crime Reporter with Star News and was also running a placement
agency with one person namely Sukhdev Singh. On her asking, he
informed her that the eligibility criteria for Cabin Crew in Indian
Airlines was "Graduate, Height 5 feet 5 inches, and age 20 years".
She told him that she did not fulfill any of these criteria. On this,
he stated that they were having good contacts in different airlines
and he can arrange for her job in some airlines. She asked him to
come home to meet her family. She further deposed that on
15.8.2007 at about 7.00/8.00 p.m., accused persons Amit Kumar
and Amit Pal Walia came to her house in a silver grey colour Indigo
car bearing no.DL-9CQ-1621. There was a sticker of Star News
displayed on the front windscreen of the said car. Both of them
had displayed I. Cards of Star News Reporter in their neck.
Accused Amit Pal Walia told her father that they can arrange for
her job in some airlines and he was supported in this by accused
Amit Kumar. They further informed that they will charge Rs.3
Lakhs to Rs.4 Lakhs for the said purpose. Amit Pal Walia told that
he was residing at South Extension, New Delhi and that he was SC No.76/13. Page 17 of 67 having office at four to five places in Delhi. He further informed
that his father Sh. Sukhdev Singh was owner of United News of
India. He confirmed that Sukhdev Singh was also running a
placement agency with them. Amit Pal Walia further stated that
they shall take a token money of Rs.15,000/- initially to start the
process. Thereafter they left their house. Afterwards, she checked
on Internet and found that Indian Airlines had advertised some
vacancies for Cabin Crew. Thereafter, both accused persons Amit
Kumar and Amit Pal Walia again visited her house in the same car
on 16.8.2007 or 17.8.2007 and gave her a form of Indian Airlines
stating that they shall collect it on 19.8.2007 alongwith token
money. On 19.8.2007 both of them again came to her house and
collected a demand draft of Rs.300/-, cash of Rs.15,000/- and filled
up form and 2 - 3 passport size photographs from her. They
showed her photographs and resumes of some other persons
stating that they had arranged job for those persons in Jet Airways
and Cruise and that they were getting Rs.70,000/- to Rs.80,000/-
per month. On her asking, accused Amit Pal Walia had informed
her that the interview call shall be received on his mobile phone as
he has mentioned his number on her resume. Thereafter, both of
them left. After about 2 - 3 days, accused Amit Kumar called her
asking if she had done her course from Frankfin Institute. When
she replied in affirmative, he stated that no airline is hiring the
students of Frankfin Institute as some of their students had
indulged in illegal activities for which some case against them was
going on. She told him that she does not have diploma or
certificate from any other Institute. Then he stated that they shall
look it into the matter. They had harassed her over this issue.
Thereafter, whenever she called them to ask about date of SC No.76/13. Page 18 of 67 interview, they gave evasive answers and once they gave the date
as 02.9.2007. When she told them that they have to go to Vaishno
Devi around that time, accused Amit Pal Walia stated that her
interview was not on 02.9.2007 and they can go to Vaishno Devi.
They returned from Vaishno Devi on 4/5.9.2007 and accused Amit
Pal Walia had informed her that the interview was scheduled for
09.9.2007 at Mumbai. On 07.9.2007 or 08.9.2007, both accused
Amit Pal Walia and Amit Kumar came to her house to ensure that
she had prepared for interview. Her mother told him to get three
tickets reserved for Mumbai for 09.9.2007 on which accused Amit
Pal Walia stated that as she was applying for Air-hostess, her
mother could not accompany her everywhere and there was no
need for her mother to go with them to Mumbai and that they
should have faith. Her mother gave Rs.20,000/- to Rs.25,000/- to
accused Amit Pal Walia for tickets and hotel expenses. On
09.9.2007, both the accused persons again came to her house.
Her mother also accompanied upto the airport from where
accused Amit Pal Walia took her to Mumbai via Kingfisher Airlines,
on the same day. They stayed at Parklane Hotel at Mumbai in a
single room on twin beds. On 10.9.2007, accused Amit Pal Walia
took her to some place and on the way he met one person namely
Dinesh. Accused Amit Pal had called Dinesh there telephonically.
Accused Amit Pal and Dinesh talked at some distance from her.
Thereafter, accused Amit Pal told her that Dinesh belonged to
Indian Airlines and that he had seen her and that no further
interview was required and that all the formalities had been
fulfilled and that she shall be called for second round for interview.
Thereafter, accused Amit Pal remained at Mumbai on the pretext
of some official work and also to meet his Tau ji who was staying SC No.76/13. Page 19 of 67 at Mumbai and he made her also stayed at Mumbai saying that
she had come to Mumbai with him and she was his responsibility
and she shall return with him only. They returned to Delhi on
12.9.2007. On 12.9.2007 or 13.9.2007 accused Amit Pal Walia in
presence of accused Amit Kumar took a sum of Rs.50,000/- from
her mother stating that first round of interview had been cleared
and payment was required on that account. On 27.9.2007 or
28.9.2007, both the accused persons Amit Pal Walia and Amit
Kumar again came to their house and told that she was to go to
Mumbai for another interview on 30.9.2007. Her mother again
insisted for going with her but accused Amit Pal Walia again
refused to take her Mumbai with her. On 30.9.2007, both the
accused persons picked her from her house and her mother
accompanied them to the airport. Accused Amit Pal Walia took her
to Mumbai and they stayed there in a hotel namely 'The Jewels'.
On the next day or next to next day, they shifted to Hotel
Parklane. On her asking about the stay in the Hotel Parklane,
accused Amit Pal Walia replied that the hotel belonged to some of
his known. Accused had taken her to an office like place where
two/three persons and some candidates were found. Accused Amit
Walia asked her not to interact with any candidate saying that
since she has come through some source and not to reveal
anything about herself. They remained there for about half an hour
and thereafter they returned to the hotel. Entries in the visitor
register of the hotel were made by the accused and she did not
sign in the register at any point of time. She may have signed at
one place in the register in the hotel on the first day during her
second visit to Mumbai but she had signed in her name. On
04.10.2007, they returned to Delhi and accused Amit Pal had SC No.76/13. Page 20 of 67 taken Rs.30,000/- from her mother on the same day. He told her
that he will inform her about the status of interview. After
two/three days, she called accused Amit Pal Walia on his mobile
phone and enquired about status of interview and he replied that
he was busy with some reporting work. On the next day, she again
tried on his mobile phone but he was not responding. She was
having another number of accused Amit Pal Walia and she
contacted on the said phone also, the phone was picked by
accused Amit Kumar and he told her that "Amit Bhaiya had gone
for some reporting at Sansad Bhawan and he shall call her as soon
as he gets free." On the next day, both accused persons came to
their house and accused Amit Pal Walia had shown her a
document in respect of my selection in second round and a
certificate of Air Wings Academy stating that in case some
objection regarding my training at Frankfin Institute is raised, he
shall show the said certificate for my selection. She requested him
to give her photocopies of both these documents but he refused.
Thereafter both of them left stating that they shall inform me as
and when call for final interview is received. 13. She further deposed that on 08.10.2007, she had
attended birthday party of her friend wherein she got food
poisoning. At about 6.00/7.00 p.m. when her mother was about to
take her hospital, incidentally accused Amit Pal Walia came to
their house and took them to Kolmet Hospital, Karol Bagh, on the
pretext that the doctor there was known to him. She was admitted
in the hospital. Thereafter, accused Amit Pal Walia telephoned his
family and accused Sukhdev Singh came to the hospital and Amit
Pal Walia introduced him to her as his father. Next day, accused SC No.76/13. Page 21 of 67 Charu came to hospital alongwith accused Sukhdev Singh and
their daughter Neetu Singh. Accused Amit Pal introduced them as
his mother and sister. On the third day, one other elderly lady
namely Snehlata was also called in the hospital telephonically by
accused Amit Pal Walia or accused Amit Kumar. When her mother
and brother offered to stay in the hospital at night with her,
accused Charu and Sukhdev had told them that she was just like
their daughter and that they shall take care of her as their house
was near that hospital. So her mother and her brother did not stay
with her at night in the hospital. She was discharged from the
hospital on 12.10.2007. All the formalities in the hospital were
completed by accused Amit Pal Walia and Sukhdev Singh. The
documents were signed by accused Amit Pal Walia as her cousin
or relative whereas the payment was made by accused Sukhdev
Singh. After discharge, she had gone to her home. During her stay
in the hospital, accused Sukhdev Singh and Amit Pal Walia had
also introduced her to one aged person namely Ram Naresh Tiwari
whom they were addressing as Guruji. She was told that he was
Editor of Dainik Jagran and was also working in United News of
India. From the hospital, she alongwith her father went to her
home on 12.10.2007 and reached there at about 12.00/1 p.m. In
the hospital, accused persons Sukhdev Singh, Amit Pal Walia, Amit
Kumar and Charu Singh had informed her that final interview was
to be held on 13.10.2007 at Mumbai. But her father told them that
she was not well and she would not go for the said interview. On
12.10.2007 at about 3.00/4.00 p.m., all the abovesaid accused
persons came to her house in Indigo car having no.DL-9CQ-1621
and insisted that it was question of her career. Accused Charu
Singh assured her parents stating that she was also like her SC No.76/13. Page 22 of 67 daughter. She further stated that she (prosecutrix) and accused
Amit Pal Walia would go to the Airport while the remaining
accused persons would go to Patel Nagar. She also gave her
address and phone number to her parents. On this, they were
convinced and her mother permitted her to go with Amit Pal Walia
on assurance of the accused persons. She went with them in the
same car. When they did not reach Airport for some time, she got
suspicious and asked the accused persons as to where were they
taking her. Accused Sukhdev Singh told her that they were first
going to Patel Nagar as Amit Pal Walia had to collect some
documents from there. At Patel Nagar, they took her to their
house at 3rd Floor on the pretext that there was some delay in
flight. At about 6.00 p.m. they told her that interview had been
rescheduled for two days after 13.10.2007. When she tried to call
her mother on her mobile phone to take her back, accused
Sukhdev Singh snatched her mobile phone and her documents.
Accused Charu Singh locked the main door. Thereafter, accused
Sukhdev Singh and Charu Singh started compelling her to marry
accused Amit Pal Walia. When she refused, they threatened her
that they had some private recordings at her stay at Bombay in
the hotel room and they would expose those CDs through media
channel. Accused Charu Singh further threatened that accused
persons had contacts with high police officers and they knew that
her father was living at Manipur and they were staying there alone
and also that they would kidnap her brother from his college.
Accused Sukhdev Singh and Amit Kumar threatened her that they
would falsely implicate her family members in criminal cases by
planting drugs etc. in their house. She still refused to marry Amit
Pal Walia. She was kept there till 16.10.2007. Accused Amit Kumar SC No.76/13. Page 23 of 67 thereafter left from there. During her stay there, she was
continuously threatened by remaining three accused persons.
They used to telephone accused Amit Kumar and instruct him to
park a black colour car in front of her house and to send some anti
social elements to her house so as to scare me. On this she got
scared and told them not to harm her family and agreed to do
whatever they wanted. On 17.10.2007 all the four accused
persons threatened her to act according to their will stating that
two photographers would be coming there shortly and that she
has to pretend that everything was being done with her consent.
Thereafter, photographers came there. Myself and Amit Pal Walia
exchanged garlands. Daughter of accused Sukhdev Singh and
Charu Singh was also present there at that time. Accused Amit Pal
Walia had forcibly put Sindoor in her hairs. All this was
photographed in a closed room. The lights of the room were also
kept switched off. At that time, she was introduced to one more
lady namely Snehlata by accused Sukhdev Singh and Amit Pal
Walia stating that she was "Badi Maa". When the photographer
left, she requested the accused persons to let her go and that she
can arrange for whatsoever amount is demanded by them. But
accused Amit Pal Walia declined stating that they would take large
amount of money as she was from Aggarwal family. Thereafter,
she was again locked in another room where accused Amit Pal
Walia had sexual intercourse with her against her will or consent. 14. She further deposed that on 18.10.2007, all the four
accused persons took her out of Delhi in a Toyota car. She does
not know whether it was Chandigarh or some other place as she
has never been to Chandigarh earlier. Before leaving their home, SC No.76/13. Page 24 of 67 accused Amit Pal Walia and Charu Singh again threatened her that
she should not create any scene in the public place otherwise they
would expose the recording of the previous night recorded in a
mobile phone. At Chandigarh also, accused Amit Pal Walia had
physical relations with her without her consent. She subsequently
came to know that the said place was Chandigarh. Photographer
was also there at that place. Again said, there was no
photographer and photographs were taken by accused Amit
Kumar with their camera. On 20.10.2007, after receiving a call
from Delhi, accused Amit Pal Walia told her that they were
returning to Delhi and they came back to Delhi on the same day.
On 21.10.2007, accused Sukhdev Singh and Amit Pal Walia told
her that they had to go to PS Bindapur as police had received a
complaint against her. They further threatened her that in the
police station, she has to state that everything was done with her
consent otherwise, accused Amit Kumar would take the
photographs and expose her in the media channels. Due to this,
she gave the statement according to their directions in the police
station. On direction of accused Amit Pal Walia, she gave a wrong
address of South Extension in the police station. In th police
station, the accused persons had shown some documents to the
police and got some calls made to the IO to show that they were
genuine persons. From police station, they returned to Patel
Nagar. In the evening, accused Amit Pal Walia brought her to
Sultanpuri where the lady namely Snehlata was present. On
22.10.2007, all the accused persons came to Sultanpuri house.
They asked her to call her mothr and to pay Rs.60 Lakhs - 70
Lakhs cash for her release. When she refused, she was beaten and
she was denied food. Then she agreed to call her mother. On 10 or SC No.76/13. Page 25 of 67 11.12.2007, she called her mother telephonically in the presence
of accused Charu Singh and Sukhdev Singh and asked for some
money. Her mother stated that she did not have so much money
and further that the accused persons were not allowing her to
meet her for one reason or another and that she wanted to meet
her. Her mother called all of them for 12.12.2007 to her house.
When her mother asked her whether she had voluntarily married
accused Amit Pal Walia, accused Charu Singh disconnected the
phone before she could reply. On 12.12.2007, accused Amit Pal
Walia and herself went to her parental house. Before going there,
he had threatened her not to disclose anything there. At her
mother's house, she was not left alone for a moment to talk to her
mother. They stayed there for 1½ - 2 hours and her mother gave
some cash and jewellery to accused Amit Pal Walia specifying the
gifts for accused persons. From there, they went to Patel Nagar
where all the cash and jewellery articles were taken by accused
Charu Singh. Accused Sukhdev Singh started shouting that they
did not need jewellery and they wanted Rs.60 - 70 lakhs cash.
Then accused Amit Pal Walia took her to Sultanpuri. In Sultanpuri,
she was never left alone and there was always someone to ensure
that she does not run away from there. One person namely
Rishipal also used to visit Sultanpuri house whom Amit Pal Walia
used to call his elder brother. Accused Amit Walia used to tell her
that they would leave her if she had physical relation with Rishipal.
Accused Sukhdev Singh and Charu Singh one day told her to call
her mother as they needed money. She informed her mother and
her mother handed over a cheque of Rs.1 lakh to Amit Pal Walia in
his favour. In the first week of December, 2007 when she was at
Sultanpuri at home of accused Amit Pal Walia, he told her that she SC No.76/13. Page 26 of 67 would have to go with him. On this she accompanied him in car
no.DL-9CQ-1621. First they went to Patel Nagar from where he
took along accused Sukhdev Singh and Charu Singh in the car and
she was taken to Kolmet Hospital, Karol Bagh, New Delhi. She was
told in the car that they were taking her there for abortion. She
refused and insisted that her mother be recalled first. They stated
that they were not able to contact her mother. When she still
refused to undergo abortion, they told that they will tell her
neighbours that she was living with Amit Pal Walia at his house
and was not studying at Bombay as had been told by her mother
to their neighbours. On this, she agreed to do as per their
directions. They instructed me to tell the doctors at Kolmet
Hospital that myself and accused Amit Pal Walia were both
reporters and were going abroad and there was no one in their
family to take care of child, due to which she wanted abortion. At
Kolmet Hospital, first doctor also advised them against abortion
but accused Amit Pal Walia convinced her and she was admitted
there and abortion was carried out. After she was discharged from
the hospital on the same day or probably on the next day, we first
went to Patel Nagar and from there she was taken to Sultanpuri. 15. On 26.1.2008, accused Amit Pal Walia took her to
Swati Hotel at Karol Bagh where they stayed for one night and
next day they went to Mumbai by train. She was not told the
purpose of our visit to Mumbai. They stayed there about 7 - 8
days. During her stay there, she came to know through telephonic
conversation of accused Amit Pal Walia that police was looking for
him in Delhi in connection with some passport and Visa. After 5 - 6
days of their stay at Mumbai accused Amit Pal Walia took her SC No.76/13. Page 27 of 67 jewellery stating that funds with him have finished. He told her
that he will sell her jewellery i.e. chain, earrings and two rings to
buy ticket for Delhi. 16. She further deposed that on 9/10.2.2008 they returned
to Delhi and after three to four dates, she came to know that
accused Amit Pal Walia had married twice before marrying her.
She saw one passport and Visa of accused Amit Pal Walia issued in
some muslim name i.e. Naved Hussain. I also saw passport of his
wife again with some muslim name i.e. Shirin Hussain and of his
child as well. Again said, I had seen photograph of the child and
not passport. When she confronted him, he told her to mind her
own business. During her stay there, she had also seen accused
Amit Pal Walia offering Namaj due to which she became suspicious
about his identity and religion. She also come to know that
accused Amit Pal Walia was also known as Raj, Ritu, Raja, Naved
etc. and that he had escaped from Ambala also where CBI was
looking for him. However, she did not know about the details of
the said case at Ambala where it was murder or something else.
After coming from Mumbai, she was convinced that accused Amit
Pal Walia used to deal in issuance in fake passport, visa,
appointment letters etc. He had got written from her also some
letters and application to Australian Embassy and French Embassy
in the names of some other applicants on the basis of their
resumes provided to her by accused Amit Pal Walia. She also came
to know that accused persons Sukhdev Singh and Amit Kumar and
other another person named Ali were also involved with accused
Amit Pal Walia in this case. She had also seen at the house of
accused Amit Pal Walia the demand draft of Rs.300/- handed over SC No.76/13. Page 28 of 67 by her to accused Amit Pal Walia in favour of Indian Airlines. By
this, she came to know that accused persons had wrongly told her
that said demand draft had been submitted to Indian Airlines. On
02.3.2008 when she was in the house situated at Sultanpuri, she
came to know that accused Amit Pal Walia was missing from the
house. She also came to know that Sneh Lata living in the said
house with them was mother of accused Amit Pal Walia. When she
inquired from Snehlata the whereabouts of accused Amit Pal
Walia, she informed her that he shall return shortly but she
appeared to be perturbed. Thereafter, Sneh Lata called Rishipal
and Rishi Pal and Snehlata talked to accused persons Sukhdev
Singh and Charu Singh and from thier talk, she came to know that
accused Amit Pal Walia was arrested in FIR No.61/2008 u/s.
420 / 120B IPC, P.S. Pandav Nagar. Those persons asked her to ask
her mother to pay Rs.3 lakhs to Rs.4 lacks cash. On her refusal,
she was beaten up. After 4 - 5 days, the accused persons forced
her to write some letters to create a defence for themselves as
they thought that she could run away from their house. She had
written the letters including some love letters as per their
direction. Accused Amit Pal Walia was released on bail on
18.3.2008. On 22.3.2008 accused Amit Pal Walia took her to Patel
Nagar, on occasion of Holi. She came to know from their
conversation that accused Amit Kumar and accused Sukhdev
Singh had also married twice and all of them had made plan to
eliminate her for which they gave her milk laced with some thing
which she refused to have. On this, she was beaten up and she
lost consciousness. She regained consciousness in the evening at
Sultanpuri where she was again threatened not to leave that
house. On 26.3.2008 she came to know that accused Amit Pal SC No.76/13. Page 29 of 67 Walia was going to Chandigarh and after he left his house, as she
was alone that day, she picked up the keys and managed to
escape from there. Again said, Sneh Lata was also present at
home at that time. She went to PS Sultanpuri from where she
called her mother and talked to her. She asked her to come to P.S.
Sultanpuri and she did not say anything else. Her parents came to
P.S. Sultanpuri and she wrote an application, copy of which is
Mark-A1 to SHO P.S. Sultanpuri. They also disclosed the complete
facts to SHO but he directed them to go to the police station of
their area, on which her father brought her home. When they had
given their complaint to P.S. Sultanpuri, they had given them some
document. On 27.3.2008, she got drafted a complaint from her
lawyer but she did not tell him the complete facts. They gave the
said complaint to various authorities on 28.3.2008. 17. She further deposed that on 07.4.2008, they went to
CAW Cell, Kirti Nagar and from there, they were directed to CAW
Cell, Nanakpura. But they were again sent back to CAW Cell, Kirti
Nagar. The inquiry officer conducted the proceedings with a view
to get the matter compromised, but they informed him that their
case was not regular matrimonial dispute and that they had been
cheated. Thereafter, they got case registered u/s.498A / 406 / 34 IPC.
They had also given alongwith their complaint, a list of dowry
articles. The said list is Ex.PW1/A (two pages) bearing her
signature at point A. When they had gone to P.S. Bindapur to
collect a copy of FIR, on their query, they were informed that sections 498A / 406 IPC were in respect of matrimonial offence.
They contacted CAW Cell where they were informed that other
sections will be added as per investigation report. As no action SC No.76/13. Page 30 of 67 was taken by IO, they approached DCP and their matter was sent
to DIU West. In fact, IO of P.S. Bindapur had also threatened them.
Her complaint made to CAW Cell Kirti Nagar is Ex.PW1/B (eight
pages). On 09.7.2008 her statement was recorded by IO of DIU
West. On 14.7.2008 her statement u/s.164 Cr.PC was got recorded
in Rohini Courts. On 15.7.2008, she was got medically examined at
DDU Hospital. The doctor had taken her garments and swabs
which were seized by IO vide memo Ex.PW2/A. On 27th or 29th July,
2008 accused Amit Kumar was arrested in her presence from
Mehram Nagar near Palam Airport vide arrest memo Ex.PW6/A. His
personal search was also carried out vide memo Ex.PW6/B. In the
last week of July, they came to know that accused Amit Pal Walia
had filed a writ petition no.986/2008 before Hon'ble High Court of
Delhi against them alleging that they had kidnapped his mother.
They went there and apprised the Public Prosecutor about the true
facts. It was revealed that accused Amit Pal Walia had himself kept
his mother Snehlata at Pyare Mohan Hotel at Mathura. The writ
petition was then dismissed as withdrawn. On 30.7.2008, in her
presence, the Indigo car bearing no.DL-9CQ-1621 was seized vide
memo Ex.PW3/A. On 10.9.2008, accused Charu Singh was
arrested from her house at Patel Nagar vide memo Ex.PW1/C.
During investigation, IO, herself and her mother went to house of
accused Charu alongwith accused Charu Singh where photographs
of the spot were taken by the IO with the help of some
photographer. Thereafter, on the same day, they alongwith IO and
accused Charu went to United News of India to point out the office
of accused Sukhdev Singh. She also gave another address of
accused Sukhdev Singh at Safdarjung and they went to the said
address. Thereafter, they returned to the police station. On SC No.76/13. Page 31 of 67 26.9.2008 or 27.9.2008, accused Amit Pal was arrested from
Dwarka in her presence but she did not recollect exact location.
During investigation, she and her mother were asked by the IO to
reach at A-104, Sultanpuri, Delhi, i.e. the house of accused Amit
Pal Walia. From the search of the house, a passbook in the name
of Simran Pal w/o Amit Pal was recovered. Same was taken into
possession vide house search memo Ex.PW1/G and the passbook
is Ex.PX1. When she was living with accused Amit Pal Walia, she
was given a Press Card of Dainik Jagran, religious messenger times
by accused Amit Pal and Sukhdev Singh. It was having the date of
issue as 08.10.2007. The said card is Ex.PX2. She never used the
said Card. All her education certificates are in custody of accused
persons. 18. In the cross examination of prosecutrix conducted by
the Ld. APP after declaring her hostile on some aspects, she
deposed that Press Card Ex.PX2, photocopy of form of DD No.
747150 dated 16.8.2007 issued from SBI Branch, Keshav Puram,
Delhi, photocopy of Saving Bank account passbook of A/c No.2088
of Corporation Bank, withdrawing Rs.15,000/- by cheque no.
309507, photocopy of cheque no.513473 of A/c No.2088 of Rs.1
lakh issued in the name of Amit Pal Walia dated 28.12.2007,
photocopy of educational documents, character certificate and
photos of marriage were seized by the IO vide memo Ex.PW1/H.
The photocopies of abovesaid documents are collectively marked
as Mark X1. 19. In her cross examination conducted on behalf of
accused Amit Pal Walia, she deposed that she has two brothers, SC No.76/13. Page 32 of 67 one elder to her and one younger to her and both are unmarried.
Her brother has done B.Tech. from NSIT, Dwarka, and is doing
business. Her father runs a military canteen in Manipur and comes
to Delhi 6 - 7 times in a year and stays for one or two months on
each occasion. Her maternal aunt (Mausi) Mrs. Anuradha Jindal
and some other relatives are also living in Delhi. She only visits the
house of her maternal aunt. Her maternal aunt resided within a
distance of half an hour from their house during the period 2006
to2008. After finishing her course at Frankfin Institute, she had
personally applied for job with many aviation companies such as
Spice Jet, Jet Airlines, Go Airways and Kingfisher Airlines. She also
applied in hotels namely Hotel Raddison, Hotel Lee Meridian and
Hotel Maurya Sheraton in Delhi. She appeared in interview in all
the airlines and the hotels. She had got placement at Hotel Taj,
Dhaula Kuan, where she worked for 2 months or 3 months as
Guest Service Executive at a salary of Rs.6,000/- per month. She
left the job as she was not comfortable in night shifts and has her
studies for graduation were getting disturbed. She also worked for
3 - 4 months in Event Management Company namely 'Encompass'
on a salary of Rs.12,000/- per month. At that time, she was using
mobile phone no.9891354915 of Idea Cellular Company Ltd. Her
elder brother was using mobile no.9810991910 of Airtel Company
and her mother was using mobile no.9436034988. She was not
working anywhere in the months of June or July, 2007 and she had
sent application to various companies for the post of Air
Hostesses. She had gone for an interview to Mumbai in connection
with job in Go Air Airlines with her uncle Mr. Anil. Again said, Mr.
Anil is not related to her but is only a family friend and lives in
Paschim Vihar. Her parents were not in Delhi at that time and her SC No.76/13. Page 33 of 67 elder brother was to appear in engineering exams and therefore,
her parents had telephonically requested Mr. Anil to accompany
her to Mumbai for interview. She had cleared the interview of
Deccan Airlines and Go Air Airlines but Deccan Airlines told her
that she is under age and Go Air Airlines preferred local residents
of Mumbai. Her candidature in Spice Jet was rejected because of
her less height. She further deposed that she did not make any
call to M/s. Star News confirming whether accused Amit Pal Walia
and accused Amit Kumar were employed there. She also did not
check this fact on the website of Star News. On 13.8.2007, her
mother and brother were present at home and the call from
accused Amit Kumar was first received by her mother and then
she handed over the phone to her. She stated voluntarily that
between October, 2007 and December, 2007, her father had made
enquiry at his level and had come to know that neither Amit
Kumar nor Amit Pal Walia had any concern with M/s. Star News.
She also did not make any effort to find out the veracity of the
placement agency which Amit Pal Wali was running alongwith
accused Sukhdev. She admitted that pursuant to the talks with
accused Amit Pal Wali and accused Amit Kumar on 13.8.2007, she
visited the website of Indian Airlines on her home computer in the
evening hours and found that some vacancies have been
advertised by the airlines. She talked to accused Amit Pal Walia
either from her mobile phone or from the mobile phone of her
brother in the evening of 14.8.2007 in presence of her mother and
asked him to visit her residence on 15.8.2007 at about 3 p.m./4
p.m. as her father was to leave for Manipur during the night. Her
father left for Manipur on 15.8.2007 in the night and remained
there for almost two months. Accused Amit Pal Walia and accused SC No.76/13. Page 34 of 67 Amit Kumar reached their house on 15.8.2007 at about 7 p.m. or 8
p.m. and her father as well as mother were present there. They
remained in their house for about half an hour or one hour and she
happened to see their Indigo car, in which they had come. He and
her parents had asked them about the credential documents of
their placement agency but they did not have any. Her parents
also spoke to both the accused. Amit Pal Walia introduced his co-
accused Amit Kumar as his brother and also as a reporter in Star
News. Accused also told them that Sukhdev Singh is their father
and all the three carry on the business of consultancy together
and accused Sukhdev Singh is the owner of United News Agency.
She admitted not having mentioned in her complaint Ex.PW1/B
and in her statement u/s.164 Cr.PC Ex.PW7/A about the visit of
accused Amit Pal Walia and accused Amit Kumar to their residence
between 16.8.2007 and 19.8.2007. She denied that between
16.8.2007 and 31.8.2007 she used to talk continuously to accused
Amit Pal Walia on phone daily about 10 - 15 times a day. She did
not meet accused Amit Pal Walia anywhere between 20.8.2007
and 31.8.2007. She denied that she had told accused Amit Pal
Walia that she had developed liking for him and had fallen in love
with him. She denied knowing any person by the name of
Narender, r/o Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg. She also denied that she
had gone to Mata Vaishno Devi pilgrimage alongwith said
Narender and not with her maternal aunt and uncle. She denied
that accused Amit Pal Walia had met them at Mata Vaishno Devi
shrine on 03.9.2007 and that she spent whole day with him there.
She denied having told accused Amit Pal Walia that she has a lot
of friction with her mother on account of said Narender as she
suspected her mother of having illicit relations with said Narender. She denied that she had returned from the pilgrimage in Toyota
Innova car bearing registration no.DL-1VB-2720 hired by accused
Amit Pal Walia. She admitted that she did not check and verify
about the interview for the selection of Air Hostesses with Indian
Airlines for 02.9.2007 either before her visit to Mata Vaishno Devi
on 02.9.2007 or after her return therefrom on 05.9.2007. Neither
she nor her mother asked accused Amit Pal Walia or accused Amit
Kumar about any document viz. E-mails, fax, etc. as proof of
interview schedule for 10.9.2007. She had told her father about
her visit to Mumbai alongwith accused Amit Pal Walia. She had
stayed in Hotel Parklane alone as accused Amit Pal Walia told her
that he will stay with his Tauji (uncle) namely Goga Kapoor. She
did not go even once with accused Amit Pal Walia to the house of
said Goga Kapoor. She denied that actually, there was no
interview fixed for 10.9.2007 or that after her travel to Mata
Vaishno Devi with accused Amit Pal Walia, she desired to go out of
Delhi with him alone and due to this reason the plan for interview
at Mumbai was hatched. She also denied that from 09.9.2007 to
12.9.2007, she stayed in a single room in Hotel Parklane alongwith
accused Amit Pal Walia with her wish and consent. She denied that
she had made physical relations with accused Amit Pal Walia
during that period voluntarily. She admitted that after her return
from Mumbai on 12.9.2007 till the end of that month, she did not
take any measure on her own to verify the factum of interview
with Indian Airlines by any means. She only remained in touch with
accused Amit Pal Walia in this regard. She admitted that between
12.9.2007 and the end of the month, she was having regular
telephonic conversation with accused Amit Pal Walia. She
admitted that on their second visit to Mumbai on 30.9.2007, she SC No.76/13. Page 36 of 67 and the accused Amit Pal Walia stayed in a single room in Hotel
Jewel as well as Hotel Park. The interview was to be held on
01.10.2007 and on that day, accused Amit Pal Walia had taken her
to some other office but it was not the Head Office of Indian
Airlines. She did not sign any document or register in that office
and did not get any official documents from the said office
regarding her interview. She denied the suggestion that from
30.9.2007 to 04.10.2007, she had regular physical intercourse
with accused Amit Pal Walia with her free will and consent and
that for this reason, they chose to stay in a single room in the
hotel at Mumbai. 20. She further deposed that on 08.10.2007 she had gone
to attend a birthday party of her friend Anita at her residence
which was 2 or 3 Blocks away from their house. She went there at
or around 1 p.m. or 2 p.m. and returned at about 5 p.m. or 6 p.m.
She suffered food poisoning and due to which she was feeling sick
in the evening hours. At that time, her mother and brother were
present at home. Her mother had taken her to a lady physician in
a nearby clinic, who advised her that she needed to be admitted in
some hospital. When they were about to leave for a hospital,
suddenly accused Amit Pal Walia came there, even though he was
not to visit them on that day and offered to take them to the
hospital in his car. She admitted that there are various Nursing
Homes and private hospitals in their own locality and in the
neighbourhood area and her mother did not take her to any of
these hospitals. Her mother had not asked accused Amit Pal Walia
to take her to Kolmet Hospital, Karol Bagh and the accused himself
took her there. She denied that actually on 08.10.2007 she had a SC No.76/13. Page 37 of 67 serious fight with her mother, as she had told her mother that she
is madly in love with accused Amit Pal Walia and in a fit of rage,
she had consumed phenyl, due to which she vomitted constantly.
She also denied that her mother deliberately called accused Amit
Pal Walia in order to seek his help as she herself was reluctant to
take her to any hospital fearing registration of a criminal case. She
further deposed that accused Amit Pal Walia used to visit the
hospital regularly for one or two hours daily. Her father, accused
Amit Pal Walia and accused Sukhdev were present at Kolmet
Hospital at the time of her discharge on 12.10.2007. She admitted
that accused Amit Pal Walia had signed on the hospital documents
as close relative/person, who got her admitted in the hospital and
also put his signature on the endorsement of receiving satisfactory
service from the hospital despite presence of her father in the
hospital. Accused Amit Pal Walia visited their house on 12.10.2007
at 3 p.m. even though there was no occasion for him to come
there. He had come there alongwith accused Charu, accused
Sukhdev and accused Amit Kumar and they remained in their
home for about one hour. She admitted that none of her family
members accompanied them to airport on 12.10.2007. She
admitted that when she left her house alongwith aforesaid four
accused on 12.10.2007, she was having her mobile phone bearing
no.9891354915 with her and she did not make any telephonic call
to her parents or brother to tell them that they were not going
straight to airport and rather are going to Patel Nagar to pick up
some documents. She did not ask accused Sukhdev and accused
Charu Singh as to how they came to know that flight was delayed.
She did not call her parents or her brother at that time. She did
not notice whether anybody was residing at the ground floor, first SC No.76/13. Page 38 of 67 floor and second floor of the said house at Patel Nagar. As far as
she remembered the third floor had a separate entry but a
common staircase leading from ground floor. Besides the accused
Amit Pal Walia, daughter of accused Sukhdev was also present on
the third floor when she entered there. Even at that moment, she
did not ask accused Amit Pal Walia about the airport to Mumbai.
Accused Sukhdev and accused Charu Singh had told her that her
interview has been rescheduled after two days. On her enquiry
that she did not see them receiving any call, they told her that
perhaps she did not notice the same. When accused Sukhdev
snatched her mobile phone, she did not shout for help as she was
not able to comprehend the situation. She further deposed that
she raised hue and cry and shouted for help 4 or 5 times during
the period of her confinement from 12.10.2007 till 16.10.2007.
She denied that during this period, she alongwith accused Amit Pal
Walia had gone to different markets for shopping and other
recreational activities. She denied that during this period, she was
regularly making calls to her parents from her mobile phone and
requested them to give consent for her marriage with accused
Amit Pal Walia. She was not given any food for three days of
confinement. Only water was kept in her room in a jug. She denied
that she alongwith accused Amit Pal Walia had met her mother on
16.10.2007 and requested her to give consent for their marriage
and to participate in the marriage but she refused. As per his
memory, the marriage between herself and accused Amit Pal
Walia had taken place at around 7 p.m. on 17.10.2007. Accused
Sukhdev and accused Charu Singh gave her a Saari to wear before
solemnization of marriage. She did not raise any hue and cry at
that time as she was threatened by accused that they would kill SC No.76/13. Page 39 of 67 her if she raised any alarm. She admitted that solemnization of
marriage was photographed as well as videographed. She
admitted that the photographs Ex.PW1/D1 to Ex.PW1/D19 are the
photographs of her wedding ceremony with accused Amit Pal
Walia on 17.10.2007. The marriage function including the
photography continued for about 35 minutes. She denied that the
aforesaid photographs were taken in broad and bright light. She
admitted that she appears to be happy and in celebrity mood in
these photographs and stated voluntarily that she was asked to
give these expressions. She admitted that the house shown at
point A in photographs Ex.PW1/D20 and Ex.PW1/D21 are of the
house, in which she had been kept confined by the accused. She
was shown the contents of the CD produced on behalf of the
accused and she admitted that it is the recording of her marriage
ceremony with accused Amit Pal Walia. The CD is Ex.PW1/D22.
She admitted that in the videography, she is seen taking
Mangalsutra from the hands of accused Amit Pal Walia and helping
him to open it so as to enable him to put it around her neck. She
admitted that during the period from 18.10.2007 to 20.10.2007
when she had gone to Chandigarh alongwith accused and stayed
there in a hotel. She did not raise any hue and cry or offer any
resistance or seek any help from any quarter whatsoever. She
also admitted that during this period all of them had visited Mansa
Devi temple. She admitted that she is seen in 11 photographs
collectively marked as Ex.PW1/D23. She admitted that these
photographs were taken at public places where many persons
were present. She admitted that she did not raise any hue and cry
or shout for help in the temple or at the aforesaid places. She
admitted that in one or the photographs, she is seen riding a SC No.76/13. Page 40 of 67 horse. She admitted that during this period, she did not ask the
accused Amit Pal Walia to permit her to talk to her mother. 21. She further deposed that she had gone to P.S.
Bindapur on 21.10.2007 in the morning hours i.e. before 12'O
Clock. She met two police officials in the police station but did not
recollect their name or rank. They spent atleast one hour in the
police station. Her parents had also come to the police station. She
admitted that she had gone there regarding the complaint of
kidnapping lodged by her mother. She admitted that she gave
statement to the police officials that she had gone with accused
Amit Pal Walia voluntarily and also performed marriage with him
and was living with him on account of her own volition and desire
and that she was not under any sort of illegal confinement. She
voluntarily stated that she gave this statement to the police at the
instance of the accused. She admitted that she did not complain to
the police officials in this regard nor did she raise any hue and cry
in the police station. She did not tell police official that she wanted
to talk to her parents separately. She did not remember the exact
address of Sultanpuri where she was residing with accused Amit
Pal Walia. One Mrs. Snehlata was also residing in that house and
one Rishi Pal also used to visit there on a number of occasions.
She admitted that the said house was located in residential area
and the area was extremely congested with thousands of people
living in the vicinity. She deposed that she did not talk to her
mother during the period 21.10.2007 to 01.12.2007 but she saw
accused Amit Pal Walia talking to her mother on number of
occasions during this period. Even accused Snehlata also talked to
her mother on some occasions. She admitted that she alongwith SC No.76/13. Page 41 of 67 accused Amit Pal Walia had visited her parental house on
12.12.2007 and she had made a telephonic call to her mother a
couple of days prior to the visit at the instance of accused
Sukhdev and accused Charu to ask for money from her parents.
They remained in her parental house for one and a half hours. She
admitted that on that occasion, her mother accepted her marriage
with accused Amit Pal Walia and also gave them blessing. Her
father was not present in the house at that time. From her
parental house, she again accompanied accused Amit Pal Walia to
Patel Nagar and from there went to Sultanpuri. She admitted that
she did not offer any resistance and did not raise any hue and cry
and did not shout for help at any point of time from 21.10.2007 to
01.12.2007. She further deposed that bangles worn by her seen in
photographs Ex.PW1/D1 to Ex.PW1/D19 were given to her by
accused Charu and accused Amit Pal Walia. She also admitted that
the photographs show that the designer 'Henna' (Mehndi) was
applied on her hands and arms. According to her, she discovered
in the first week of December, 2007 that she was pregnant. She
did not share this news with anybody else but mother of accused
Amit Pal Walia disclosed it to everybody else. She admitted that
she had got her pregnancy terminated in Kolmet Hospital, Karol
Bagh, but did not seek any help from the doctor in any manner.
She did not remember the date of abortion. She deposed that she
voluntarily desired to terminate her pregnancy as she was not
happy with the same. She did not disclose the history of illegal
confinement and forcible sexual intercourse to the lady doctor,
who treated her, as she felt embarrassed to see all this. She
admitted that on 26.1.2008, she spent a night alongwith accused
Amit Pal Walia in Hotel Swati, Karol Bagh, and from there they SC No.76/13. Page 42 of 67 went to Mumbai where they stayed for 7 to 8 days in Hotel Park
Lane. She admitted that during this entire period, she did not seek
any help from any person at the railway station, co-passengers in
the train, ticket checker in the train, railway police etc. as she was
feeling embarrassed. She admitted that they had stayed in a
single room in a hotel at Mumbai and accused Amit Pal Walia had
gone out of the hotel once or twice during those 7 - 8 days and
she did not attempt to run away or raise any hue and cry or seek
anybody's help. According to her, the room was closed from
outside whenever accused Amit Pal Walia went out. She admitted
that she did not call anybody from the telephone available in the
hotel room. She deposed that after return from Mumbai, one day
she noticed that the briefcase of accused Amit Pal Walia was lying
open and on checking the same, she found Visa in the name of
Simran Hussain and passport in the name of Simran Pal Walia,
both having same photograph. It was noted on the passport that
Simran Pal Walia is the wife of accused Amit Pal Walia. She also
saw the driving licence of Simran Pal Walia w/o Sh. Amit Pal Walia.
She came to know that accused Amit Pal Walia is also known as
'Raj' or 'Raja' as Rishi Pal used to address him as such. She
gathered from the conversation of Rishi Pal and Snehlata that
accused Amit Pal Walia was wanted by CBI and was on the run.
When she confronted accused Amit Pal Walia with the aforesaid
Visa, passport and driving licence of other girl, he asked her to
mind her business. She tried to escape from Sultanpuri but could
not succeed as either there was someone present in the house or
the house was locked from outside. However, she never cried for
help during her period of confinement. She came to know on
01.3.2008 or 02.3.2008 about the arrest of accused Amit Pal Walia SC No.76/13. Page 43 of 67 in another case. After his arrest, accused Amit Pal Wali remained
in custody for 14 - 15 days. She did not try to raise any alarm or
escape from the house during those days as Snehlata, Rishi Pal,
accused Charu and accused Amit Kumar and accused Sukhdev
used to remain in the house during the day time. However, she did
not try to seek help at night time. She had gone to visit Amit Pal
Walia at Tihar Jail during his custody and mentioned herself as his
wife in the application submitted there. She did not raise any
alarm or seek any help from police officials present at Tihar Jail.
She admitted that she had written love letters to accused Amit Pal
Walia during the period of his stay in Tihar Jail. She did not
remember the contents of those letters. She also did not
remember if she addressed accused Amit Pal Walia as 'Shona' in
those love letters or if she had written in those letters "I will die if
you will not come soon, really I am telling you, you mean a lot of
me, you are everything to me, my love, I am missing you terribly."
She stated voluntarily that these letters were dictated in English to
her by accused Sukhdev. She had gone two or three times to
Karkardooma Court to meet Sh. A.P. Singh, Advocate, for filing bail
application of accused Amit Pal Walia and spent half an hour with
the said advocate on each occasion. She did not complain to that
advocate that she was illegally confined and raped by accused
Amit Pal Walia. She did not raise any alarm during her visit to the
court. She did not shout for help when she was beaten at Patel
Nagar on the day of Holi in March, 2008. On 26.3.2008 she had
found the keys of the house lying in a room of the house and the
door was locked from inside not from outside. She admitted that
on 26.3.2008, her parents had taken her to P.S. Sultanpuri but
neither she nor her parents lodged any complaint against anybody SC No.76/13. Page 44 of 67 on that day. 22. She further admitted that the list of dowry articles
Ex.PW1/A is in her handwriting. She also admitted that she had
never met accused Amit Kumar before 13.8.2007 nor had she
talked to him on phone or otherwise. She admitted that she had
signed as Neha Walia on the treatment papers Ex.PW1/D27 (colly)
on 03.12.2007. She admitted that she was fully conscious on that
day before she was examined in Kolmet Hospital and the doctor
had asked her about the history of ailment but she did not tell the
doctor that she had been kidnapped and her pregnancy is the
result of her having been raped. At another place in the cross
examination, she admitted that she had talked to her mother on
telephone on 10th or 11th December, 2007 and her mother had
asked her to visit their house on 12.12.2007 which she accepted.
She also admitted that on 12.12.2007 when she alongwith accused
Amit Pal Walia had gone to her parental house, her mother had
given her some gifts and cash and blessing as well. She admitted
that her mother was quite aware that she alongwith accused
would be visiting their house on 12.12.2007 and still she had not
informed police about their visit. Besides this, she denied all other
suggestions put to her by Ld. Cross examining Counsel. 23. The next material witness for the prosecution is Smt.
Prabha Aggarwal, the mother of the prosecutrix, who has been
examined as PW9. In her examination in chief, she has
corroborated the deposition of the prosecutrix by saying that
accused Amit Kumar and Amit Pal Walia introduced themselves to
her as Crime Reporter in Star News and able to arrange a job for SC No.76/13. Page 45 of 67 the prosecutrix which would cost about Rs.2 Lacs to Rs.2.5 Lacs;
that they refused to take payment by cheque and on their
demand, she paid them Rs.15,000/- in cash as token money; that
after about 15 - 20 days both the accused came to their house
and stated that the first round of interview of the prosecutrix
would be held at Mumbai and after two or three days thereof,
accused took the prosecutrix alongwith them to Mumbai for
interview; that she wanted to accompany her daughter to Mumbai
for the interview but the two accused persuaded her to leave the
prosecutrix alone; that after further 15 to 20 days, the two
accused again took the prosecutrix alongwith them for a second
round of interview at Mumbai and returned from there after 3 to 4
days; that on that occasion accused Amit Pal Walia took a sum of
Rs.30,000/- from her; that on 08.10.2007 she was informed by the
two accused that the final found of interview would be held on
12.10.2007 at Mumbai and she requested them to extend the date
of interview as the prosecutrix was not feeling well; that accused
Amit Pal Walia came to their house on the same day and took her
alongwith prosecutrix to Karol Bagh where he got the prosecutrix
admitted in Kolmet Hospital; that accused Charu Singh also
remained in the hospital for one night; that the prosecutrix was
discharged from the hospital on 12.10.2007 and on the same day
all the four accused came to their house asking her to send
prosecutrix for final interview; that she initially did not agree but
later on sent the prosecutrix alongwith them for the final round of
interview; that she was not able to talk to her daughter or accused
Amit Pal for the next two days and accordingly talked to accused
Sukhdev and Charu, who told her that Amit Pal Walia has taken
the prosecutrix to Mumbai for the interview and when she was not SC No.76/13. Page 46 of 67 able to talk to her daughter or Amit Pal Walia for the next 3 - 4
days and the accused Sukhdev as well as Charu Singh were not
giving satisfactory reply, she lodged a complaint in P.S. Bindapur
on 20.10.2007. She further deposed that on 21.10.2007, she was
called to P.S. Bindapur and on reaching there, she found her
daughter i.e. the prosecutrix alongwith accused Amit Pal Walia and
Sukhdev already present there. She saw vermilion in her
daughter's hairs. She tried to talk to the prosecutrix but the
accused did not allow her to do so. When she demanded marriage
documents and photographs, accused Sukhdev told her that she
would get the same within three days and thereafter the accused
left the police station alongwith prosecutrix. She was not able to
talk to her daughter for next two months. In the first or second
week of September, 2007 the prosecutrix telephoned her and
demanded money. She told the prosecutrix to bring accused Amit
Pal Walia, Amit Kumar, Sukhdev and Charu to her house and she
would try to help her as much as possible. She further deposed
that the prosecutrix alongwith accused Amit Pal Walia came to
their house on 12.12.2007 and remained there for about one hour
but she was not able to talk to her daughter as all her questions
were answered by accused Amit Pal Walia. She gave Rs.50,000/- in
cash and some gold to them. Thereafter the prosecutrix went back
alongwith accused Amit Pal Walia. She further deposed that within
one week thereafter, the prosecutrix telephoned her again and
told her that she is in need of more money. She gave the
prosecutrix a cheque in the sum of Rs.1 Lac in favour of accused
Amit Pal Walia. The cheque was collected by accused Amit Pal
Walia from her near Uttam Nagar Metro Station. On 02.3.2008, she
received a phone call from P.S. Sultanpuri informing her that the SC No.76/13. Page 47 of 67 family members of accused Amit Pal Walia have lodged a
complaint against her alleging that she has kidnapped him. She
visited P.S. Sultanpuri on the next day and came to know that
accused Amit Pal Walia is lodged in Tihar Jail. She got address of
prosecutrix at Sultanpuri and went there to see her. The door of
the house was opened by one gentleman, told her that the
prosecutrix is residing in the said house. She saw the prosecutrix
upstairs but could not talk to her and accordingly returned home.
On 26.3.2008, she received a call from the prosecutrix asking her
to reach P.S. Sultanpuri. She alongwith her husband reached P.S.
Sultanpuri and found that the prosecutrix was crying. The
prosecutrix told her that she had not been taken for final interview
but was actually taken to Patel Nagar, confined in a room there,
forced to marry accused Amit Pal Walia and was raped by him.
They brought the prosecutrix home. After some days, they
contacted a lawyer and got drafted a complaint but they did not
tell the complete facts in order to save the honour of their
daughter. They submitted a complaint to CAW Cell. She further
deposed that later on accused Amit Kumar was arrested vide
arrest memo Ex.PW6/A and accused Amit Pal Walia was arrested
vide arrest memo Ex.PW1/E. She proved the photocopy of the
complaint submitted by her to the police on 20.10.2007 as
Ex.PW9/A. 24. In the cross examination she stated that her younger
sister Anu resides in Delhi with her family and some of her distant
relatives like uncles, cousin etc. also reside in Delhi. In the year
2007 - 08 her sister Anu was residing in Uttam Nagar just two or
three Blocks away from her house and used to visit them SC No.76/13. Page 48 of 67 occasionally on festivals or when she had some work. She
admitted that in the year 2007 her daughter i.e. prosecutrix had
appeared for several interviews with various airline companies for
a job of air-hostess and sometimes she used to accompany her for
these interviews, if the place of interview was far off. She further
deposed that on 15.8.2007, accused Amit Kumar and accused
Amit Pal Walia had come to their house in presence of her
husband and only her husband talked to them. Accused Amit
Kumar introduced accused Amit Pal Walia as his elder brother and
they were having Star News I.Cards hanging around their neck.
She did not try to verify from the office of Star News whether
these two accused were actually working there or not. She denied
the suggestion that accused Amit Pal Walia had met them during
their pilgrimage to Mata Vaishno Devi on 02.9.2007 to 05.9.2007
or that they returned to Delhi from there in a vehicle arranged by
them. She deposed that the prosecutrix was having a mobile
phone during that period and denied that she was aware that the
prosecutrix used to meet accused Amit Pal Walia daily during that
period or that there used to be frequent calls between her and the
prosecutrix on this issue. She deposed that she did not ask
accused Amit Pal Walia to show any written document about the
interview at Mumbai. She had asked him about the name of
organization that was conducting the interview of the place where
the interview was to be held but he did not give any specific reply.
According to her, the prosecutrix had never went alone with
anyone out of Delhi before 09.9.2007. When she accompanied
accused Amit Pal Walia to Mumbai for the interview. She did not
ask her son to accompany the prosecutrix to Mumbai as she did
not want to disturb his studies. She admitted that the prosecutrix SC No.76/13. Page 49 of 67 had earlier also gone on one occasion to Mumbai for interview with
Go Air Airlines with a family friend Anil as on that day, she was not
in Delhi. She did not feel it necessary to ask her sister or her
brother-in-law (Jija) to accompany the prosecutrix to Mumbai on
09.9.2007. She was in regular touch with the prosecutrix during
her aforesaid visit to Mumbai and she used to talk to her about 4
to 5 times in a day. Prosecutrix had told her that she was staying
alone in Hotel Parklane as they had got only one room and the
accused Amit Pal Walia was staying in his uncle's house. On return
from Mumbai, prosecutrix told her that she was not interviewed by
any person orally or in writing and she was just taken in front of
somebody on 10.9.2007 who after seeing her said 'O.K.'. She did
not remember in whose birthday party had the prosecutrix gone
on 08.10.2007, when she felt ill. She had taken the prosecutrix to
a doctor in the neighbourhood, who advised her to take the
prosecutrix to the main clinic as she was suffering from food
poisoning. She did not call her sister or her brother-in-law for help
at that time. Her husband was in Delhi at that time and had gone
to attend some marriage. She informed her husband about the
condition of the prosecutrix and her husband returned home after
attending the marriage. According to her, accused Amit Pal Walia
had come to their house on that day at about 7 p.m. or 8 p.m. on
his own. She did not ask accused Amit Pal Walia to take the
prosecutrix to the hospital and they went alongwith him to Kolmet
Hospital at Karol Bagh as she was not able to arrange any
conveyance. She admitted that Mata Chanan Devi Hospital is at a
distance of 15 - 20 minutes from their residence. She was not
aware about AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, DDU Hospital and other
such big hospitals. On reaching Kolmet Hospital, she did not fill SC No.76/13. Page 50 of 67 any form at the reception. She did not know whether the
prosecutrix had undergone for stomach wash. She did not deposit
any fee in the hospital before admission of the prosecutrix there
and did not know who deposited the fee. She did not know if
accused Amit Pal Walia also remained in the hospital for the night
or had left after dropping them there. 25. She further admitted that she did not call her younger
sister or her brother-in-law (Jija) to the hospital despite the doctor
telling her that the prosecutrix would remain hospitalized for next
two to three days. She did not pay the final bill of the hospital as it
was paid by accused Amit Pal Walia and he had filled up the
documents. She further deposed that after discharge of
prosecutrix from the hospital on 12.10.2007, they reached home
at about 12 noon or 1 p.m. and all the four accused also reached
there after about one and a half hours. Her husband was present
at home at that time. The accused asked her to send the
prosecutrix for final round of interview and when she refused, they
forced her for the same. She did not ask them to show any
document regarding final round of interview. She did not see any
air ticket in the hands of the accused but accused Charu had told
her that there was an open ticket. She deposed that neither she
herself nor her husband nor her son had accompanied the
prosecutrix to airport on that day. She further deposed that when
she alongwith her husband had gone to P.S. Bindapur on
21.10.2007 regarding the complaint filed by them on 20.10.2007.
all the accused persons alongwith the prosecutrix were present
there. The police officials did not permit her to talk to the
prosecutrix despite the fact that they alongwith the prosecutrix SC No.76/13. Page 51 of 67 and the accused were sitting in one and the same room. From the
appearance of the prosecutrix, accused Amit Pal Walia and the
clothes they had worn, she assumed that they had got married.
She and her husband did not complain to the SHO or any other
superior police officer against the conduct of the police officials,
who did not allow them to meet their daughter. She denied the
suggestion that the prosecutrix had told the police officials in her
presence that she was a major and had voluntarily solemnized the
marriage with accused Amit Pal Walia. She admitted that she did
not call any of her relatives including her younger sister between
12.10.2007 and 21.10.2007 to inform that the prosecutrix had
been kidnapped. She admitted that she did not inform any of her
relatives about the kidnapping of the prosecutrix till March, 2008.
She further deposed that they did not go to the residence of
accused Sukhdev during the period between 12.10.2007 to
21.10.2007 as they did not have his address but stated that she
had called accused Sukhdev on mobile phone once or twice during
this period as she was having his mobile phone numbers. She
deposed that the prosecutrix had made a telephonic call to her in
the second week of December, 2007. She talked to the prosecutrix
for two minutes at that time and the prosecutrix did not tell her
that she had been kidnapped or has been forced to marry accused
Amit Pal Walia or that she has been confined in the house or that
she has been raped. She did not remember the exact date when
accused Amit Pal Walia alongwith the prosecutrix came to their
home in the month of December, 2007. she served them tea and
snacks only and they remained at their house for about one hour.
She did not have any direct talk with the prosecutrix at that time.
Her son was also sitting with them at that time. On that day also, SC No.76/13. Page 52 of 67 the prosecutrix did not tell her that she had been forcibly detained
by accused Amit Pal Walia or that he has raped her. She had told
her husband before the aforesaid visit of prosecutrix that she has
invited Amit Pal Walia and the prosecutrix home as her husband
was in Manipur at that time, it was not possible for him ro come to
Delhi to meet his daughter and accused Amit Pal Walia. She
admitted that she had given some gifts including one gold chain,
gold earrings and some cash to the prosecutrix and accused Amit
Pal Walia on 12.10.2007 for themselves and for the other three
accused. The said gold chain and earrings were available with her
at her home. She also admitted that she had given her blessings
to the couple for their marriage as she wanted to take them in
confidence. She further deposed that she did not make any
telephonic call to the prosecutrix or Amit Pal Walia after
12.12.2007 but the prosecutrix used to call her as and when she
thought necessary. She admitted that the prosecutrix never told
her during any of these telephonic calls after 12.12.2007 that she
was in illegal confinement or that she had been abducted or
subjected to forcible marriage and rape. She further admitted that
she used to accompany the prosecutrix to CAW Cell on a number
of occasions and also used to meet the Enquiry Officer, who was
dealing with the complaint filed by the prosecutrix. She admitted
that during this period, neither she nor the prosecutrix submitted
any complaint in writing to the police officials regarding the
kidnapping and rape. She further denied all the suggestions put to
her by the Ld. Counsels for the accused. 26. A close scrutiny of the testimony of aforesaid two star
witnesses of the prosecution reveals that there is no truth in the SC No.76/13. Page 53 of 67 allegation regarding kidnap of the prosecutrix, her forcible
marriage with accused Amit Pal Walia and her having been raped
by accused Amit Pal Walia. According to their deposition before
this court, accused Amit Kumar, accused Amit Pal Walia had
introduced themselves as Crime Reporters of Star News and told
them that they can arrange a job for the prosecutrix (PW1) with
some airlines. It is not in dispute that these two accused were
totally stranger to PW1 and her mother PW9 till that day. It is thus
intensely intriguing as to how they placed utmost trust and faith
upon the representations of the two accused Amit Kumar and Amit
Pal Walia. Neither PW1 nor PW9 made any attempt to confirm
whether these two accused were in fact employed in Star News.
They did not try to find out the veracity of the placement agency
being run by accused Amit Pal Walia alongwith accused Sukhdev.
It has come in the testimony of PW1 that she had done course of
air-hostess at Frankfin Institute and had personally applied for job
in various aviation companies and had also appeared for the
interview conducted by these aviation companies in Hotel
Raddison, Hotel Le Meridian and Hotel Maurya Sheraton etc. It has
also come in her cross examination that her brother had obtained
degree of B.Tech from NSIT, Dwarka, a reputed technical institute
of India. Still they believed the representation of these two
accused blindfoldedly without making enquiry regarding their
credentials. It is quite strange that PW1 accompanied accused
Amit Pal Walia to Mumbai on three occasions for an interview with
an airlines company but no such interview took place there and
still she or her mother did not doubt the conduct of accused Amit
Pal Walia and his co-accused. Neither PW1 nor PW9 asked
accused Amit Pal Walia to show any interview letter to them and SC No.76/13. Page 54 of 67 they kept on believing him without asking for any document
confirming that he had applied for a job on behalf of PW1 and that
she had been called to Mumbai for any interview. PW9 has
deposed in her cross examination that she had asked accused
Amit Pal Walia about the name of the organization which was
conducting interview at Mumbai and the place where the interview
was to be held but he did not give any specific reply. However,
despite this she did not become suspicious about the conduct of
the accused and sent her daughter alongwith him to Mumbai for
the interview. 27. It is the case of the prosecution that the four accused
had taken the prosecutrix from her house on 12.10.2007 on the
pretext of accompanying accused Amit Pal Walia to Mumbai for
final round of interview and instead of taking her to Mumbai, she
was taken to a house in Patel Nagar, confined there forcibly and
compelled to solemnize marriage forcibly with the accused Amit
Pal Walia. It has come in the evidence of PW1 that on that day,
accused Charu Singh assured her parents that the prosecutrix was
like a daughter to her and only accused Amit Pal Wali would
accompany her to Mumbai. PW1 has further deposed that accused
Charu Singh gave her address and phone number to her parents
whereupon they were convinced and permitted her to go
alongwith the accused. PW9 has deposed that when she was not
able to talk to her daughter or accused Amit Pal Walia for the next
two days, she talked to accused Sukhdev and Charu, who told her
that accused Amit Pal Walia as well as prosecutrix are in Mumbai
for the interview and when she was not able to talk to her
daughter or accused Amit Pal Walia for next 3 or 4 days, she and SC No.76/13. Page 55 of 67 accused Sukhdev and accused Charu Singh were not giving any
satisfactory reply, she lodged a complaint in P.S. Bindapur on
20.10.2007. PW9 has deposed in her cross examination that she
did not ask the accused to show any document regarding final
round of interview. She did not see any air ticket in the hands of
any of the accused but accused Charu Singh had told her that
there was an open ticket. Neither she nor her husband nor her son
accompanied the prosecutrix on that day and the prosecutrix was
sent alone alongwith the accused. 28. I wonder that if the accused intended to kidnap and
confine the prosecutrix, why would accused Charu give her
address and phone member to the mother of prosecutrix. It is
totally unheard of that a kidnapper would provide his/her address
and phone number to the kins of the victim to be kidnapped.
Further when PW9 was not able to contact her daughter or
accused Amit Pal Walia on phone, she could have easily visited the
house of accused Charu and found her daughter there. Very
strangely, she did not do so. 29. It is evident from the testimony of PW1 that the
accused brought her to the P.S. Bindapur on 21.10.2007 pursuant
to the missing complaint lodged by her parents on 20.10.2007. it
is also evident that PW9 and her husband has also reached the
police station on that day. PW9 has deposed in cross examination
that she, her husband, their daughter (PW1) and all the accused
were sitting in one room in the police station but still they could
not talk to their daughter. PW1 has deposed that she did not tell
the police officials that she wanted to talk to her parents SC No.76/13. Page 56 of 67 separately. She gave a voluntary statement to the police officials
that she has performed marriage with accused Amit Pal Walia
voluntarily, is living with him on her own volition and is not under
any sort of confinement. However, she stated that she made this
statement at the instance of the accused. Which of the accused
had influenced or pressurized or threatened her to make such
statement and in what manner, has not been explained by her.
She admits that she did not complain to the police officials in this
regard and did not raise any hue and cry in the police station. She
did not tell the police officials that she wants to go with her
parents. 30. In this regard, PW9 has deposed in her cross
examination that police officials did not permit them to talk to
their daughter but neither she nor her husband complained to the
SHO or any other senior police officer against the conduct of police
officials. She also deposed that from the appearance of PW1 and
accused Amit Pal Walia and the clothes they had worn, she
assumed that they had got married. 31. The impression which can be gathered from the
deposition of PW1 as well as PW9 is that PW9 and her husband
were satisfied that their daughter (PW1) has solemnized marriage
willingly with the accused Amit Pal Walia and that she had not
been kidnapped or confined forcibly by the accused and therefore
they did not press further their complaint dated 20.10.2007 and
did not ask their daughter to return home alongwith them. 32. PW1 had admitted in her cross examination that the SC No.76/13. Page 57 of 67 marriage function held on 17.10.2007 was photographed as well
as videographed and has admitted that photographs Ex.PW1/D1 to
Ex.PW1/D17 are that of her marriage with the accused Amit Pal
Walia. Even a cursory look at these photographs shows that she
seems to be very glad. The smile on her face, as seen in these
photographs, seems to be genuine and not a fake one. The
photographs do not give any impression that the marriage had not
taken place with her consent or that she was forced to sport a fake
smile when these photographs were taken. 33. Coming back to the date 08.10.2007. Evidence on
record suggests that PW1 had fallen sick on that day. Case of the
prosecution is that she had suffered food poisoning in the birthday
party of a friend. PW9 had taken her to a nearby doctor but was
advised to take her to a big hospital. It is deposed by both PW1
and PW9 that accused Amit Pal Walia came to their house on that
day on his own, unexpected and took PW1 to Kolmet Hospital,
Karol Bagh, for treatment where she remained admitted till
12.10.2007. PW9 admitted that Mata Chanan Devi Hospital is at a
distance of 15 - 20 minutes from their house. She further deposed
that she did not fill any form in the hospital, didn't deposit any fee
there and didn't pay the final bill of the hospital. She did not call
her sister or sister's husband to the hospital during those days and
didn't inform them about the hospitalization of her daughter. 34. The aforenoted conduct of PW9 demonstrates that
accused Amit Pal Walia was not having mere business relations
with her family and there was something more than that.
Otherwise how come accused Amit Pal Walia came to their house SC No.76/13. Page 58 of 67 on 08.10.2007 when he had no business there on that day. Even if
nothing unusual can be read in the conduct of accused Amit Pal
Walia in taking PW1 to hospital on seeing her ailing but his taking
her not to a nearby hospital but to a distant hospital in Karol Bagh
is not usual. Why did PW9 allow the accused Amit Pal Walia to fill
the documents in the hospital and why did he pay the hospital
charges, which by no means could have been negligible, when his
acquaintance with them only as an agent to provide job to PW1. It
becomes manifest that some sort of intimacy had grown between
him and PW1 and that on 08.10.2007 he had been informed about
her sickness either by PW1 herself or PW9. It is for his reason only
that the accused Amit Pal Walia showed personal interest in the
hospitalization and treatment of PW1, accused Charu as well as
accused Sukhdev also visited the hospital during those days and
accused Amit Pal Walia paid all the hospital charges. 35. It is also for the same reason that PW9 and her
husband permitted their daughter (PW1) to accompany the
accused on 12.10.2007 without getting any satisfaction that she
was in fact required to appear in some interview at Mumbai. It
appears that the prosecutrix (PW1) wanted to go with the accused
and her parents had no option except to allow her. It is for this
reason that they did not insist upon the accused to show the
interview letter or the air ticket. This totally falsifies the kidnap
and forcible confinement allegations. 36. The conduct of PW9 is not informing any of her near
relatives including those who were residing in Delhi about the
kidnap or forcible marriage of PW1 raises strong doubts regarding SC No.76/13. Page 59 of 67 the credibility of the prosecution case. 37. PW1 has deposed that accused Charu Singh and
Sukhdev Singh compelled her to marry accused Amit Pal Walia and
when she refused, they threatened her that they had some private
recordings of her stay at Mumbai in the hotel room and they would
expose those videos through media channel. PW1 has deposed
that she had stayed alone in the hotel room in Mumbai and the
accused has stayed at his uncle's house. In that case, where was
the occasion for the accused Charu and Sukhdev to possess any
private recordings at Mumbai Hotel and hence, to the knowledge
of PW1, the threats extended by them were useless. This too
demonstrates that the prosecutrix (PW1) had solemnized marriage
with the accused Amit Pal Walia without any threat or pressure. 38. The deposition of PW1 that she was having regular
telephonic conversation with accused Amit Pal Walia between
12.9.2007 till the end of month also shows that she did treat him
only as an agent for getting her a job but had come very close to
him. 39. According to PW1, she was kept confined by the
accused in a room on the third floor of a house in Patel Nagar. She
admitted in cross examination that the said house was located in
an extremely congested area with thousands of people living in
the vicinity. She further admitted that she did not offer any
resistance and did not shout for help at any point of time from
21.10.2007 to 01.12.2007. she also admitted that she did not raise
any alarm or offer any resistance or seek help from any quarter SC No.76/13. Page 60 of 67 whatsoever during her visit to Chandigarh alongwith the accused
from 18.10.2007 to 20.10.2007. She admitted that they had also
visited Mata Mansa Devi shrine. She admitted that photographs
Ex.PW1/D23 (colly) were taken during this visit and she is seen in
these photographs. She admitted that these photographs were
taken in public places where many persons were present and she
did not raise any hue and cry at those places. In these
photographs too, the prosecutrix (PW1) is seen in a very cheerful
mood without any signs of fear or pressure. She seems to be
enjoying the company of the accused Amit Pal Walia. In one of the
photographs, she is seen riding a house alone. Apparently, she has
not made any attempt to run away at any of these places and
remained in the company of Amit Pal Walia without any fear or
threat. Such conduct of the prosecutrix does not support
allegations of kidnap, forcible marriage and rape. Further a
kidnapper would never take his victim to these public places, roam
freely with the victim at these places and permit his victim to have
a horse ride alone. 40. PW1 has further deposed in his cross examination that
she did not talk to her mother during the period 21.10.2007 to
01.12.2007 but she saw accused Amit Pal Walia talking to her
mother on number of occasions and even Snehlata also talked to
her mother. If these calls were made by the accused for ransom
for the kidnapped girl, PW9 would have deposed so. Since she has
not stated anything in this regard, it can be said that calls were
made to PW9 to accept the marriage of PW1 with Amit Pal Walia,
as suggested by the accused. 41. PW9 has deposed in her cross examination that PW1
had made a call to her in first week of December, 2007 and they
talked to each other for two minutes but prosecutrix didn't tell her
that she has been kidnapped, forcibly married and raped. 42. With regards this, PW1 has deposed that on 10th or 11th
December, 2007 she called her mother telephonically in the
presence of accused Charu and Sukhdev and asked for some
money. Her mother told her that she doesn't have so much money
and expressed her desire to meet her (PW1). Her mother (PW9)
called all of them to her house on 12.12.2007. She alongwith
accused Amit Pal Walia went to her parental house on 12.12.2007,
stayed there for about 1½ hours and her mother gave some cash
and jewellery to Amit Pal Walia specifying the gifts for all the
accused. She deposed that before going there, Amit Pal Walia had
threatened her not to disclose anything there. However in the
cross examination, she admitted that on that occasion her mother
accepted their marriage and gave them blessings and from her
parental house, she again accompanied back accused Amit Pal
Walia. 43. PW9 has deposed that on the aforesaid visit of PW1
and accused Amit Pal Walia to their house, she served them tea
and snacks. Her son was present in the house at that time. PW1
did not tell them that Amit Pal Walia has forcibly confined and
raped her. She admitted that she had give some gifts including
one gold chain, earrings etc. and also her blessings to the couple
for their marriage. She also deposed that she had informed her
husband, who was in Manipur at that time, that she has invited SC No.76/13. Page 62 of 67 PW1 and Amit Pal Walia but it was not possible for him to come to
Delhi to meet his daughter and Amit Pal Walia. Later on, she also
hands over a cheque in the sum of Rs.One Lac to Amit Pal Walia
near Uttam Nagar Metro Station. 44. It is, therefore, amply evident that PW9 as well as her
husband had accepted the marriage of PW1 with Amit Pal Walia
and for this reason only PW9 gave cash, jewellery as well as her
blessings to the couple. Had she been infact under the belief that
her daughter PW1 has been kept under forcible confinement, she
would have already called police to her home before arrival of
Amit Pal Walia there and got him arrested. She knew already that
Amit Pal Walia is coming to visit her on 12.12.2007. Thus PW1 and
PW9 have themselves trashed the prosecution case. Their
aforesaid deposition clearly demonstrates that prosecutrix (PW1)
had willingly married accused Amit Pal Walia and the allegations of
kidnap, forcible marriage and rape are totally baseless. 45. PW9 has further deposed in her cross examination that
she did not make any telephonic call to prosecutrix or Amit Pal
Walia after 12.12.2007 but prosecutrix used to call her as and
when she thought necessary but in their calls also, prosecutrix did
not tell her that she has been abducted or was in illegal
confinement or has been raped. 46. Much emphasis was laid by the Ld. APP as well as Ld.
Counsel for the complainant upon the testimony of PW12, the
photographer who had taken photographs Ex.PW1/D1 to
Ex.PW1/D19 to contend that no marriage ceremony was in fact SC No.76/13. Page 63 of 67 performed between PW1 and Amit Pal Walia on 17.10.2007 and
therefore the physical intercourse between the two amounts to
rape. PW12 has deposed that he did not find any priest or any
guest in the house and he was told that marriage has already been
performed. He also deposed that the atmosphere in the house was
not of marriage. 47. I concur with the submissions of Ld. APP and Ld.
Counsel for the complainant that there is no evidence on record to
show that the marriage of PW1 with Amit Pal Walia was performed
as per Hindu rites. There are only photographs Ex.PW1/D1 to
Ex.PW1/D19 on record in this regard but these do not show that
the ceremonies like 'Saptpadi', 'Kanyadan' etc. were performed
which are essential rites for a valid Hindu marriage. However this
does not advance the case of prosecution at all. As discussed
hereinabove, evidence on record shows that PW1 (prosecutrix)
was major, had developed intimacy with Amit Pal Walia,
accompanied him voluntarily, was living with him voluntarily and
engaged in physical relations with him willingly. Sexual intercourse
between an adult male and female is not rape, even though they
are not married to each other. 48. It was next submitted on behalf of the prosecution as
well as the complainant that even if it is assumed that PW1 had
willingly performed marriage with PW1, it is not a valid marriage
as the deposition of PW17, PW18 and PW20 shows that he was
already married. It was contended that since PW1 was not aware
of previous marriage of the accused Amit Pal Walia at that time
her consent to the sexual intercourse with him can not be termed SC No.76/13. Page 64 of 67 as fair and untainted. She did it with the belief that she is his
legally wedded wife, which turns out to be untrue. It is submitted
that case falls squarely under clause 'fourthly' of section 375 IPC
and hence the sexual intercourse between PW1 and accused Amit
Pal Walia amounts to rape. I cam unable to countenance these
submissions. First for the reason that as noted hereinabove, there
is no proof on record that essential rites and ceremonies of a
Hindu Marriage were performed between PW1 and Amit Pal Walia.
The evidence only shows that PW1 was living with the accused
Amit Pal Walia voluntarily and having intercourse with him
willingly. Similarly there is no evidence on record that accused
Amit Pal Walia was already married to a lady Simran Pal. The
evidence of PW17 and PW20 is to the effect that Amit Pal Walia
was staying in House No.B-48, Lajpat Nagar-I, New Delhi,
alongwith a lady named Simran Pal who, they claim to be his wife.
PW17 in his cross examination had deposed that he did not see
any marriage photograph or marriage certificate of the accused
Amit Pal Walia. He did not see any document or correspondence
showing that Amit Pal Walia and Simran Pal were husband and
wife. Similarly, PW20 has not stated on what basis she claims
Simran Pal to be wife of accused Amit Pal Walia. 49. So far as PW18 is concerned, he proved account
opening form of Bank A/c No.5472500100261301 (Ex.PW18/A)
which shows that this account is in the name of Simran Pal w/o Sh.
Amit, R/o B-9, Lajpat Nagar. There is no evidence to show that
Amit mentioned in the Ex.PW18/A is accused Amit Pal Walia or that
this bank account was got opened by him. 50. It may further be noted that this lady Simran Pal has
not been traced during the course of investigation. She turns out
to be a mysterious lady. Neither could she be identified nor could
her whereabouts be found. 51. Be that as it may, I find no evidence on record to
establish that accused Amit Pal Walia was already married to the
lady Simran Pal before his so called marriage with PW1. Testimony
of PW17 and PW20 merely shows that Amit Pal Walia was living
with a lady. She could have been his friend or a live-in partner. 52. It is also pertinent to note here that the prosecutrix
(PW1) has addressed her complaint dated 28.3.2008 (Ex.PW1/B) to
the ACP CAW Cell, Kirti Nagar and not to the SHO of the concerned
police station. The complaint is typed in English and has been
prepared after due deliberation and admittedly in consultation
with a lawyer. Both PW1 and PW9 have deposed that they
alongwith the accused participated in conciliation proceedings in
the CAW Cell. The complaint Ex.PW1/B is accompanied by a list of
dowry articles given to the prosecutrix by her parents before and
after the marriage. The list is Ex.PW1/A. 53. I wonder that if it was a case of abduction,
confinement, forcible marriage and rape, where was the occasion
for PW1 to file the complaint in CAW Cell and participate in
conciliation proceedings and where was the occasion for her
parents to give dowry (cash & jewellery as mentioned in Ex.PW1/A)
to her. 54. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I conclude that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove guilt of any of the
accused. Therefore, all the accused are hereby acquitted.