(1) As per the allegations, on or before 16.12.2009 all the accused 

namely Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky, Praveen Goel @ Vipin 

and Jitesh Gogia @ Jeetu along with Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) 

hatched a criminal conspiracy to commit robbery on Puran Chand a jeweller 

by profession with pistol like dead weapon. Further, on 16.12.2009 at about 

9:20 AM at Open Road in front of House No. C­2/31, Phase­II, Ashok Vihar, 

Delhi all the accused in furtherance to common object of criminal conspiracy 

along with accused Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) committed robbery 

of Rs.1,55,00,000/­ (One Crore and fifty five lacs) belonging to Puran 

Chand Gupta, proprietor of Bansal Jewellers and Hari Ram Puran Chand 

Jewellers by using a deadly weapon i.e. pistol. It is also alleged that the 

accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky, Praveen Goel @ 

Vipin and Jitesh Gogia @ Jeetu were found in possession of stolen / robbed 

amount with they knowingly and having reasons to believe that the said 

money was robbed / stolen property. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 2 CASE OF THE PROSECUTION/ BRIEF FACTS

(2) The case of the prosecution is that on 16.12.2009 DD No. 10A 

was received at Police Station Ashok Vihar pursuant to which SI satya 

Prakash and Ct. Pawan reached at House No. C­2/32, Ashok Vihar, Phase­II, 

Delhi where Puran Chand Gupta met them who informed the police that he is 

having his shop of Jewellery at Central Market, Phase­I, Ashok Vihar in the 

name and style of Bansal Jewellers and also another shop at 12 Tooti, Sadar 

Bazar in the name of Hari Ram Puran Chand. He further informed the police 

that on 16.12.2009 at about 9:15 AM he along with his daughter in law Jyoti 

brought cash from the house for depositing at HDFC Bank, West Patel Nagar 

and were keeping the same cash in Zen Estilo car bearing No. DL­8CR­1678 

when at about 9:20 AM Jyoti brought two bags containing Rs.1,55,00,000/­ 

and opened the dicky of the car when one black colour motorcycle without 

number plate came on which three boys were riding and one boy was having 

pistol in his hand. He further informed the police that the said boy came 

down and showed the pistol to him and threatened him after which he 

removed the checkdar bag containing cash from the dicky and handed over to 

his two associates sitting on the motorcycle whereas he himself picked up 

another bag of black colour containing cash and ran away towards another 

motorcycle parked in a start position. Puran Chand Gupta also informed the 

police that the boys were in the age group of 25­20 years with a height about 

6 feet, middle built having fair complexion and having slight beard. He 

further told the police that both the bags were containing total amount of Rs. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 3 1,55,00,000/­ in the denomination of 500 & 1000 having the stamp of Hari 

Ram Puran Chand and the bags were also containing RTGS Form and deposit 

slips. Puran Chand further informed the police that he could identify the 

assailants if shown to him. (3) On the basis of the complaint of Puran Chand Gupta the present 

FIR was got registered and investigations were commenced. During 

investigations, statements of Smt. Jyoti, Dharmender Kumar and Amit Kumar 

were recorded and it was confirmed that four persons had come on two bikes 

at around 8:40 AM near the house of the complainant and two persons got 

down at Washer­Man Dharmender's ironing table while two kept waiting with 

their bikes. On the basis of the descriptions given by Jyoti, Amit and 

Dharmemder the portrait of the assailants got prepared by the Investigating 

Officer. During investigations the secret informer gave the number of mobile 

phones of suspected persons pursuant to which the call details of mobile No. 

9716451108, 9999337000, 9873222031 and 9873670551 were collected and 

kept on surveillance. Thereafter on 3.1.2010 first of all the accused Vikas 

Aggarwal @ Vicky was apprehended at service road, Gal No.5, Multan 

Nagar, Delhi while he was trying to flee in his car bearing No. DL­4C­

AJ­6389. Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky disclosed that he was trying to escape 

from Delhi along with his associate Praveen Goel. The car of Vikas 

Aggarwal was searched during which Rs.70,00,000/­ were recovered from 

the bag which the accused disclosed to be the robbed amount of his share as 

well as the share of Deepak Gogia. From the personal search of accused St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 4 Vikas Aggarwal one mobile phone having SIM No. 9716451108 was 

recovered. At the instance of Vikas Aggarwal another accused Praveen Goel 

was apprehended from Multan Nagar along with a bag which was containing 

Rs.30,00,000/­. In the meanwhile a call was received on the mobile phone of 

accused Vikas Aggarwal and the caller declared his name as Harshit 

Prabhakar who was waiting near Liberty Cinema. Thereafter at the instance 

of accused Vikas Aggarwal the accused Harshit Prabhakar was apprehended 

near Liberty Cinema where he was standing near his Endeavor car bearing 

No. DL­4CAF­0113. A blue coloured bag was recovered which was kept 

near the co­driver sear and on checking it was containing Rs.25,00,000/­. 

From the possession of the accused Harshit Prabhakar mobile phone No. 

9873222031 was recovered. Thereafter all the three accused persons were 

arrested and at the instance of accused Vikas Aggarwal one black­red colour 

motorcycle bearing No. DL­45­AQ­0277 was seized which was used in the 

robbery. Further, at the instance of all the three accused one blue­black 

coloured Discover motorcycle bearing No. DL­45­BD­5243 was recovered 

from outside the house of Deepak Gogia at D­13, Rama Vihar, Delhi. 

(4) On 4.1.2010 on the basis of secret information the accused Jitesh 

Gogia @ Jitesh was apprehended near Shastri Nagar Metro Station from 

whose possession Rs.1,00,000/­ were recovered. The accused Jitesh Gogia 

disclosed that he has given information his Deepak Gogia about a jeweller in 

Ashok Vihar and Deepak Gogia promised him to give Rs.5,00,000/­ for this 

information and he had already received Rs.1,50,000/­. Thereafter the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 5 accused Jitesh was arrested. (5) On 7.1.2010 Test Identification Parade proceedings of the accused 

Praveen Goel, Vikas Aggarwal and Harshit Prabhakar was conducted but the 

accused refused to participate in the same. During police custody remand of 

five days Rs.1,00,000/­ was also recovered at the instance of accused Harshit 

Prabhakar. After completion of investigations charge sheet was filed against 

the accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and Jitesh 

Gogia. However, the accused Deepak Gogia could not be apprehended and 

was declared a Proclaimed Offender. CHARGES: EVIDENCE: (9) The witness Puran Chand has further deposed that one day police 

informed him and called him at the police station stating that the recovery 

had been effected by them on which he He went to Crime Branch Office, 

Rohini where he was showed the recovered bundles of currency notes and he 

identified the currency notes bundles as they were having same seal of HDFC 

Bank. According to the witness, the police recovered an amount of Rs. One 

Crore Twenty Five Lacs and it was released to him by the court on Superdari 

on Superdarinama before the Ld. MM's Court. He has testified that the 

original currency notes were released to him and the police kept photocopies 

of currency notes from both the sides. According to him, later on he never St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 8 joined any proceedings with the police officials. He does not remember 

whether police recorded any other statement. The witness has also deposed 

that at the time of incident he also raised alarm by crying but he does not 

remember in his first statement Ex.PW3/A how many persons were 

mentioned by him. (10) He has identified two bags i.e. the bag with check design which 

is Ex.P­1; another bag of grey colour which is Ex.P­2; photocopies of 

currency notes bundles and original receipts on which witness had put stamps 

of his firm Hari Ram Pooran Chand which receipts 100 in number are 

collectively Ex.P­3. The witness has clarified that he did not use the HDFC 

stamp as same was required to be signed in the bank itself before the bank 

official. He has further identified three torn white clothes in which the 

currency notes were kept by the police after sealing the same, which torn 

cloth parcels of white colour are collectively Ex.P­4. He has also identified 

the photocopies of currency notes of Rs. One Crore twenty five lacs which 

are collectively Ex.P­5. However, he has not been able to identify the 

assailants who had robbed his amount because they were wearing the helmets 

at the time of commission of crime. (11) The witness was found resiling from his earlier statement and 

hence he was cross­examined by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State wherein he 

has admitted that the date of incident was of 16.12.2009 and due to lapse of 

time he could not tell the exact year in his examination in chief. He has 

further admitted that the number of his car is DL­8CR­1678. According to St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 9 the witness, he did not read over his statement Ex.PW3/A when it was 

recorded and he signed the same. He has denied that he did not disclose 

about the helmet in his statement Ex.PW3/A that is why it was not 

mentioned in that statement and has voluntarily explained that he had told to 

the police that fact but police did not record the same. He has testified that 

he did not tell to the police that one of the boy was having light beard. He is 

unable to tell if police recorded his another statement on 16.12.09 U/s 161 Cr. 

P.C. The witness has denied that he had told the police in his statements that 

the boy who was having beard showed him the pistol and has voluntarily 

explained that one tall boy came to him and showed the pistol but he cannot 

say whether he was having any beard. According to him, he did not tell to 

the police in the statement Mark A that he can identify the boys who robbed 

the bags as he had seen their faces. He has testified that he had pointed out 

the place of occurrence to the police but he is unable to tell if the police 

prepared site plan of the spot at his instance nor he is able to tell if he told the 

police in his statement that washer­man Dharmender and Anil were enquired 

by the police in his presence. He has admitted that two washer­men were 

ironing the clothes in front of his house and has voluntarily added that he 

does not know the name of the washer­men. He has denied that police made 

enquires from washer­men Dharminder and Anil in his presence. However, 

the witness has admitted that Dharminder washer­man produced one 

jeans pant to the police in his presence and told that the jeans pant was 

given by the robbers to him for ironing and that the robbers were St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 10 watching their house on the pretext of ironing of the pant. The witness 

has further admitted that the police inquired from him about his bank 

account, insurance etc. and that the bank statements income tax return and 

other documents regarding the savings were handed over by his son Deepak 

to the police. He has further admitted that tax invoice Ex.PW3/B, 

Ex.PW3/C, Ex.PW3/D and Ex.PW3/E having the same stamp at point A 

which was affixed on the bundles of the currency notes and that the 

documents Ex.PW3/C, Ex.PW3/D, Ex.PW3/E related to Hari Ram Pooran 

Chand Jewellers bear his signatures. He has denied that after incident, he 

along with the police officials went for preparation of sketch of assailants and 

sketch was developed which is Mark B and has deposed that the sketch 

Mark B was shown to him after preparation. He has denied that sketch Mark 

B was prepared at his instance and that his daughter in law Jyoti was also 

with him at that time. He has no knowledge whether police published Mark 

C at his instance and an award for a sum of Rs.50,000/­ was announced. The 

witness has denied the suggestion that when he came to know about the 

recovery of his money, police showed him sealed parcels containing his 

currency or that the currency notes in the bundle were not shown to him and 

the sealed parcels were shown to him. He has also denied that he had 

introduced a new story about the helmet worn by the assailants or that he saw 

the faces of robbers at the time of commission of crime. According to the 

witness, he came to know in the Court that police did not write the facts 

regarding the robbers wearing helmets and he was not supplied with the copy St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 11 of the FIR. He has denied the suggestion that he was supplied with the copy 

of FIR immediately after registration of FIR and he signed the receipt or that 

after receiving the copy of FIR, he came to know that there was no mention 

about the helmet and after perusal of FIR he did not make any complaint to 

any senior police officer as the fact of helmet was not mentioned. The 

accused Parveen Goyal, Vikas Aggarwal and Harshit were specifically put to 

the witness in the Court on which the witness replied that he is unable to 

identify the accused. He has denied the suggestion that he deliberately not 

identified the accused persons before the Court. (12) The witness Puran Chand has admitted that on 07.01.2010 he 

accompanied the police to the jail for identification of the robbers where he 

he came to know there that the robbers refused to join the TIP proceedings or 

that he accompanied the police to the jail because he had already told to the 

police that he can identify them if shown to him. He has admitted that after 

07.01.2010 he did not make any complaint to the senior officers of the police 

to the effect that he was unable to identify the robbers. He has denied the 

suggestion that he actually saw the faces of the robbers at the time of robbery 

due to which he accompanied the police to the jail for identification of the 

accused persons or that due to fear of the accused persons he deliberately not 

identified them. He has further denied the suggestion that he has been won 

over by the accused Praveen Goel, Vikas Aggarwal and Harshit Prabhakar 

due to which he deliberately not identified them before the Court. He has 

admitted that jeans pant of light blue colour was produced by Dharminder St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 12 washer­man to the police which is Ex.P­6. Witness has also clarified that in 

his examination in chief due to mistake and a lapse of period about one 

year, he wrongly stated that the seal of HDFC bank was affixed on the 

bundles instead of seal of his firm Hari Ram Pooran Chand. He has 

admitted that when he saw the bundles of currency notes for the first time 

there was a seal on the slip of his firm Hari Ram Pooran Chand and there was 

no seal of HDFC Bank. He has denied that he has deposed falsely on the 

point of identification of the accused persons. (13) In his cross­examination by the Ld. Defence counsels a specific 

question was put to the witness that when he had visited the police station on 

2.1.2010 at 11:30 AM whether the accused Vikas Aggarwal was present in the 

police station or not, to which the witness has replied in negative. He has 

denied the suggestion that the police got his signature taken on blank papers 

on 02.01.10 at police station and has voluntarily explained that police 

obtained his signatures on many papers therefore, he could not read them. 

He has however admitted that those papers were not read over to him. He has 

testified that he was called by police on 02.01.2010 at about 11.00/11.30 AM 

by informing that the robbed money had been recovered and the assailants 

had been apprehended. According to the witness, on that day, he had seen 

the robbed amount lying in the police station in the same bags and he 

was also shown four­five boys by telling that these were the boys who 

robbed his money. The witness has also deposed that he did not enter that 

room where those boys were sitting and saw those boys from outside by St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 13 peeping inside the room and says that he did not see accused Harshit 

Prabhakar among those boys. He has further deposed that he made only one 

seal of his firm Hari Ram Puran Chand and police never saw that seal. 

(14) PW5 Sh. Deepak Gupta is the son of the complainant / victim 

who has deposed that he is the authorized signatory in the firm Hari Ram 

Puran Chand and they deals in the jewelery business at 713, Bara Tooti, Sadar 

Bazar, Delhi. According to him, he is the partner of Bansal Jewellers, 18, 

Central Market, Ashok Vihar. He has testified that they used to purchase 

gold bullions from MMTC at Jhandewalan for both the above said firms and 

used to sell the same to several customers. The witness has further deposed 

that they used to deposit the sale money with their Bankers ICICI Ashok 

Vihar and HDFC Bank, East Patel Nagar. According to the witness, they get 

profit of Rs.2,000/­ of sale of 1Kg. gold which they used to purchase from 

MMTC through CCOD account from Union Bank of India, Sadar Bazar 

Branch. He has also deposed that this account has a limit of 3.25 crores and 

provides the facility to utilize in a day maximum amount of Rs.3.25 crores. 

According to the witness, on 16.12.2009 he went to Ahemdabad for purchase 

of gold where he received a telephonic call from his father Sh. Puran Chand 

that Rs.1.55 crores have been robbed by five boys who came on two 

motorcycles and after showing the pistol type weapon to him. He has 

testified that on the same day i.e. on 16.12.2009 he caught a flight and came 

to his house at about 4:00 PM where he found media and police officials at 

his residence and was informed that a dacoity had taken place at his St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 14 residence. According to the witness, police officials made inquiries from 

him regarding the sources of the amount of Rs.1.55 crores on which he 

showed them the cash book and ledger and the police officials on seeing the 

aforesaid documents were satisfied. He has further deposed that the said 

amount was to be deposited in the account of the firm M/s. Hari Ram Pooran 

Chand in the HDFC Bank, East Patel Nagar and he also showed the 

documents pertaining to account which was earlier maintained at ICICI Bank 

Ashok Vihar Branch and Union Bank of India, Sadar Bazar Branch but the 

transaction was not being maintained at ICICI Bank. He has proved that the 

said documents were taken by the police into possession vide memos 

Ex.PW5/C and Ex.PW5/D. He has also proved the Form DVAT which are 

Ex.PW5/A & Ex.PW5/B; copy of Income Tax Return which is Ex.PW5/E 

which is in the name of his father Sh. Pooran Chand Gupta; copy of Income 

Tax Return Ex.PW5/F which is in his name; certificate from Union Bank of 

India, Sadar Bazar which is Ex.PW5/G; Tax Invoice of MMTC which is in 

the name of their firm which is Ex.PW3/B; ledger Accounts (sales/ cash 

books) which are Ex.PW3/C, PW3/D and Ex.PW3/E; copy of the statement 

of HDFC Bank Account which is Ex.PW5/H; copy of the statement of ICICI 

Bank Account which is Ex.PW5/I; another copy of the statement of ICICI 

Bank Account showing the statement from 1.7.2009 to 30.9.2009 which is 

Ex.PW5/J; copy of the statement of HDFC Bank Account which is 

Ex.PW5/K. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 15 (15) In his cross examination by the Ld. Defence Counsels the 

witness has deposed that he received information about the incident at about 

9:45 AM while he was going to Ahmedabad in the train but he does not 

remember the name of the train. He does not remember the time when he 

boarded the flight from Ahmedabad nor does he remember if he handed over 

the train ticket and air ticket to the Investigating Officer. According to him, 

he had not visited the police station on 16.12.2009. He has testified that 

when he came at his house at 4 PM, 20 to 25 people had collected but he has 

no knowledge if police recorded the statement of any person collected. He 

does not recollect the date on which his statement was recorded by the police. 

He has testified that he visited Police Station Ashok Vihar on 16.12.2009 at 

about 7­8 PM but he does not remember whether his statement was recorded 

by the IO at that time. According to the witness, he had attended the office 

of AATS thrice but he does not remember the dates of his visits there. He 

has also deposed that he had signed his statement which was recorded by IO 

Rajiv Ranjan however on seeing the judicial file the witness has admitted that 

it does not bear his signatures. He has denied the suggestion that his 

statement Ex.PW5/DX1 and Ex.PW5/DX2 are not the same statements 

which he had made to the Investigating Officer or that the Investigating 

Officer never recorded his statement in this case. He has testified that his 

accounts were maintained by a Chartered Accountant and has admitted that 

the ledger account running into three pages are not duly stamped or signed by 

his CA. The witness has denied the suggestion that the ledger account was a St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 16 fabricated document. He has further deposed that he had handed over the 

said documents to the police on 16.12.2009 but he does not remember on how 

much documents the police obtained his signatures. He is also not aware the 

procedure of the police therefore he is unable to tell as to what documents 

were prepared regarding seizing the document and wherever he was asked by 

the police to sign, he signed the document. He is not aware whether any 

seizure memo was prepared regarding seizing of the documents on 

16.12.2009 and states that he had supplied the entire documents to the police 

at the same time and one sitting. He has denied the suggestion that he had 

not received any information from his father. (16) PW6 Ms. Jyoti Gupta is the wife of Deepak Gupta (PW5) and 

daughter in law of Puran Chand Gupta (PW3). She is an eye witness to the 

incident who has deposed that on 15.12.2009 her husband Sh. Deepak Gupta 

had gone to Ahmedabad. She has further deposed that they are having 

jewellery business and having a shop in the name of Hari Ram Puran Chand 

at Baratoti, Sadar Bazar, Delhi and in the name of Bansal Jewellers at Ashok 

Vihar. According to her, on 16.12.2009 she was present in her house along 

with her in laws in the morning hours when her father in law asked her to 

accompany her at HDFC Bank Patel Nagar Branch as they had to deposit Rs.

1.55 crore there and since her father in law was not knowing driving and 

therefore she had to go with him to drive the car. She has further deposed 

that they took Rs.1.55 crores in two bags which currency notes were having 

the stamp of their firm and they had to go in a Estilo bearing no. DL8CR St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 17 1678 which was parked just in front of her house. The witness has further 

testified that she and her father in law were putting the bags containing the 

aforesaid amount in the dicky of the aforesaid car and she put one bag in the 

dicky and her father in law was standing while she went inside the house to 

take another bag and came out of the house near the car with the other bag. 

According to her, she found that one person was showing revolver to her 

father in law Sh. Puran Chand and the said person asked her to go inside the 

house and showed the pistol to her. The witness has also deposed that 

thereafter she went inside the house and within a minute her father in law had 

come inside the house after which a call was made on 100 number and before 

arrival of PCR they went to police station Ashok Vihar. According to the 

witness, she heard the voice of throwing the bag while she was inside the 

house but just near the gate of the house. She has further deposed that she 

could not see any one from the accused persons. (17) With the permission of the Court, since the witness was not 

giving the complete facts, the Ld. Addl. PP for the State cross examined the 

witness wherein she has deposed that the police officials came at the spot 

alongwith them and then they were interrogated by the police officials and 

her statement was recorded by the police. A specific question was put to 

the witness whether the boy who had shown her the katta was of fair 

complexion to which the witness has replied in affirmative and explained 

that when he had shown her the katta she had seen his hand. She has 

testified that she had stated to the Investigating Officer in her statement the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 18 fact that she heard the voice of throwing the bag, but she had not stated in her 

statement that the person was having the beard and she was of about 6 ft. 

height. According to her, she had not stated in her statement to the police 

that another boy came to the spot who lifted the bag containing the aforesaid 

cash and at the same time one bike of black colour came there on which the 

other boy ran away. She had also not stated to the police in her statement that 

the first boy who had shown the revolver to her father in law and her, also 

lifted the other bag and ran away on the red coloured bike and she had seen 

both the boys in a close distance and she could identify them. The witness 

has confronted with her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. which is 

Ex.PW6/DX1 where the aforesaid facts were found so mentioned, but she 

has denied having told these facts to the police. She does not remember if 

one Dharmender and Amit were also present in the front of her house. 

According to her, she was interrogated many times by the police but she does 

not remember the exact date of her examination. The statement 

Ex.PW6/DX2 was read over to the witness who has denied having made any 

such statement to the police. She has denied that the police officials had 

brought three accused in front of her house and while they were preparing the 

documents she had identified all the accused persons by height and by faces; 

that she had given the role of each accused person in her statement 

Ex.PW6/DX2; that when they were interrogated by the Investigating Officer 

in her presence, their names were known as Harshit Prabhakar, Praveen Goel 

and Vikas Agarwal and she had duly identified them as the same persons St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 19 involving in showing the revolver to her father in law or to her and in lifting 

the bags containing the aforesaid amount on 16.12.2009 at about 9:15 AM. 

She has also denied the suggestion that the statement Ex.PW6/DX2 is the 

same statement which she had given on 11.1.2010 and she has not given the 

facts mentioned in this statement deliberately in order to save the accused 

persons. The witness was duly advised by the court to state true facts and has 

been duly explained the consequences of not speaking the truth. She has 

denied that she had been won over by the accused persons. The accused 

Parveen Goyel, Harshit Prabhakar and Vikas Aggarwal were specifically put 

to the witness in the Court but she is unable to identify anyone of them. She 

has also denied that she has not identified the accused persons deliberately 

despite the fact that she had mentioned in her statement that she could 

identify the accused persons if shown to her. This witness has not been 

cross­examined by the Ld. Defence Counsels despite opportunity in this 

regard. (18) PW7 Amit has deposed that he is residing at Wazirpur Village 

in a tenanted house along with his brother Raj Kumar and father Nembu Lal. 

According to him, he is doing the work of ironing the clothes in front of 

House No. C2/31, Ashok Vihar Phase­II and one Manoj and Shailesh used to 

work with him at the aforesaid place / thaiya. He has testified that it was 16th 

day, month he does not remember, in the year 2009, he came at his thaiya at 

about 8:30 AM along with Dharmender and after cleaning the thaiya he went 

to take the woolen clothes from the customers. He has further deposed that St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 20 when he was going to take the clothes he found two bike­walas aged about 

25­26 years in front of house no. 26 who were talking each other. The 

witness has also deposed that when he came back at his work place he found 

the police team in front of house no. 26 and he came to know that robbery 

had taken place at house No. C31. He has further deposed that his brother 

Dharmender informed him that one person had come to the thaiya and asked 

him to iron a pant. Further, the witness has deposed that he had not stated 

anything to the police nor is he able to identify the persons standing with 

motorcycles in front of C26. He has however stated that the colour of one 

motorcycle which he found in front of C26 was black and another was of red 

colour. He has testified that thereafter the police officials had brought three 

persons in the police station and shown them to him but he did not identity 

any of them as the person involved in that case. (19) Leading question was put to the witness regarding identity of the 

accused persons wherein the witness has deposed that he had not seen the 

faces of those persons standing near the motorcycles in front of C26, 

Ashok Vihar. (20) Thereafter the witness was cross­examined by the Ld. Addl. PP 

for the State wherein the witness has deposed that he had not stated in his 

statement Ex.PW7/A that he could identify the person standing near the 

motorcycles as he had seen them in close distance in front of C26, Ashok 

Vihar. However, when confronted with his statement Ex.PW7/A the 

aforesaid fact was found so mentioned bur the witness has denied having St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 21 made the same before the police. He has denied that he had stated in his 

statement Ex.PW7/A to the police that Dharmender had informed him that 

two associates of the persons standing near motorcycles came to him and one 

of them got the pant ironed which fact he was concealing deliberately in 

order to save the accused. According to the witness, he had not stated to the 

police in his subsequent statement that he had identified one of three accused 

persons Vikash Agarwal as the same person who was sitting on the red 

coloured motorcycle. The witness was confronted with his statement 

Ex.PW7/B wherein the said fact was found so mentioned but he has denied 

having made any such statement to the police. He has denied that he had 

identified one of three boys who was smallest in height and was wearing 

spects on the day of incident and was talking while sitting on the motorcycle; 

that the other boy who was sitting in the black motorcycle and was of strong 

built and he had identified the person sitting on the red colour motorcycle as 

his name was known to him as Vikas Agarwal and thereafter he had given his 

name in his statement Ex.PW7/B. He has denied the suggestion that he has 

not identified the accused Vikas Agarwal deliberately in order to save him or 

that he was won over by the accused persons. The witness has further denied 

that he was under pressure from the side of the accused persons therefore he 

has not deposed correctly and not identified them in the court. This witness 

has not been cross­examined by the Ld. Defence Counsels.

(21) PW10 Dharmender a press­wala with his table / thaioya in the 

area is stated to be an eye witness to the incident. He has deposed that St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 22 previously, he was residing at Wazir Pur on rent at WP­319, Wazir Pur 

Village, Delhi and was working as painter and Manoj and Pradeep are his 

brother who are residing at Wazir Pur with him. According to the witness, he 

and Manoj were working ironing on clothes at C­2/31, Phase­2, Ashok Vihar, 

Delhi. Witness has further deposed that prior to the present incident about 

18/20 days back his brother Manoj went to village at U.P. that is why he left 

his work of painting and started working ironing the clothes at Ashok Vihar. 

According to him on 16.12.2009 he came to the ironing shop at about 8.00 

AM and on that day, Amit the son of his uncle was also with him. He has 

testified that he sent Amit to collect the clothes from the adjoining houses 

and at about 8.30/8.45AM two boys looking like the age of 25­28 years, came 

at his ironing shop wearing helmet and one of them, asked him for ironing 

the jeans pant and handed over the jeans pant to him. According to the 

witness, one of the said boys was tall whereas the other was short in 

height but he could not notice their complexion. The witness has testified 

that asked both the boys that after heating the iron, he would iron his clothes 

and told them that it would take about 30 minutes on which both the boys left 

his iron shop and started burning the coal/ koyla for the press. He has also 

deposed that both the boys went towards house No. C­2/26, Ashok Vihar 

side and when both the boys came to his iron shop on foot and he was 

busy in his work. Witness has also deposed that a dacoity took place in 

front of house No. C­2/31, Ashok Vihar from a car belonging to the house 

No. C­2/31 owned by one Guptaji whose name he is not aware. According to St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 23 him in the mean time, his brother also came at the iron shop along with 

clothes and Auntiji of the house No. C­2/31 started shouting and public 

persons gathered there. Witness has further deposed that she was making 

alarm "chori ho gai­ chori ho gai." He has testified that he remained at his 

shop and after some time, police reached there and came to his iron shop and 

asked him about the incident. The witness has further deposed that both the 

boys did not come back to collect their jeans pant and therefore he handed 

over the jeans pant to the police. According to him, he was called at police 

station and inquiries were made from him when police recorded his 

statement. Witness has further deposed that whatever he saw he told to the 

police and police did not prepare anything at his instance. 

(22) He has testified that one day (date, month and year he does not 

remember) police came to his iron shop and brought three boys since he 

could not see the faces of the those two boys who came on his shop for 

ironing the jeans pant that is why he could not identify them and police did 

not record his statement on that day. He does not remember if police told the 

names of those boys on that day. He is also unable to identify the jeans pant 

because he did not see it carefully when it was given to him but states that it 

was of blue colour. According to him, none of the boys who came to his shop 

for ironing and none of those three boys who were brought at his ironing 

shop were present in the court. (23) The witness has declared hostile and in his cross­examination by 

the Ld. Addl. PP for the State he has admitted that his brother Manoj went to St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 24 the village on 29.11.2009 but has denied the suggestion that he told to the 

police in his statement that he sent Amit to Pragati Market for bringing the 

match box; that he told to the police in his statement that both the boys were 

of fair complexion. However, when confronted with his statement 

Ex.PW10/A the said facts were found so mentioned. He has further denied 

the suggestion that he introduced a new story about wearing of helmet by 

both the boys deliberately. Witness has admitted that the tall boy was 

reading the newspaper while sitting at his shop. He does not remember if 

jeans pant was given by the small boy to him. He has denied the suggestion 

that he told to the police in his statement that small boy had given jeans pant 

to him for ironing whereas the tall boy left his shop; that both the boys went 

towards the house of Puran Chand; that the tall boy reached near the car of 

Puran Chand and subsequently, the other boy also reached there. However, 

when confronted with his statement Ex.PW10/A the said facts were found so 

recorded. He is not aware the name of the person namely Puran Chand. 

Witness has admitted that one bike of black and red colour came to the 

house of Puran Chand and two boys having two bags went away on that 

bikes. He has again deposed that he is not aware the name of Puran Chand 

and states that he knew him as Guptaji. Witness has denied the suggestion 

that he told to the police in his statement that two boys having the bags were 

the same who came to his shop for ironing the jeans pant; that he got 

prepared sketch of the tall boy. However, when confronted with his statement 

Ex.PW10/A where it was found so recorded. He has denied the suggestion St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 25 that the sketch Mark B of the tall boy was got prepared by him as per his 

memory from the police; that on 11.01.2010 police brought three boys at his 

iron shop; that he identified two boys one was tall and other was some short 

height before the police who came at his shop on 16.12.2009 and gave the 

jeans pant for ironing; that on his identification police told him the name of 

the tall boy as Praveen and the short height boy as Harshit whereas he told to 

the police about the third boy who was wearing spects which was not seen by 

him on that day. When confronted with his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. Ex.PW10/B the said facts were found so recorded. 

(24) The accused Praveen Goel was specifically put to the witness in 

the Court and it was suggested by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that he was 

the same tall boy who came at his shop with a short height boy and 

thereafter, went towards the car of Puran Chand and he got prepared the 

sketch of the accused Praveen before the police and also identified him on 

11.01.2010 before the police at his iron shop. However, the witness was 

unable to identify the accused Praveen in Court. Further, the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar was specifically put to the witness and it was suggested that he 

was the same boy who accompanied with tall boy accused Praveen and had 

given jeans pant to him (witness) on 16.12.2009 and subsequently they both 

went towards the car of Puran Chand and subsequently ran away with the 

bags on motorcycle and thereafter, he on 11.01.2010 identified both the 

accused before the police. The witness was unable to identify the accused 

Harshit in the Court. the accused Vikas Aggarwal was also put to the witness St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 26 and it was suggested that he was the same who had been brought by the 

police on 11.01.2010 alongwith accused Praveen and Harshit to whom he 

(witness) did not identify before the police but according to the witness he 

has not seen the accused Vikas. (25) Further, one blue colour jeans pant was put to the witness as the 

same jeans pant which was given by accused Harshit for ironing in presence 

of accused Praveen and the same was handed over to the police by him 

(witness) to which the witness has deposed that it may be possible that it 

was the same jeans pant which is Ex.P6. (26) The witness has further deposed that he came before the court 

for deposing as the summons were received at his iron shop as he came from 

the Gujrat on 27.02.2012 since his brother Manoj called him regarding the 

deposition about the incident. According to the witness on 28.02.2012 he 

met with Bhaiyaji R/o C­2/31, Ashok Vihar, Phase­II, Delhi and some formal 

talks were took place. The witness has further deposed that he earned Rs. 

3000­4000/­ per month in Gujrat and is working as labour in a glass factory 

at Gujrat. He has also deposed that he spent Rs. 1500/­ 1800/­ per month for 

his living in Gujrat and send remaining amount to his parents at District 

Devariya, U.P. Witness has denied the suggestion that he has been won over 

by the accused who paid him a hefty amount on account of which he has 

traveled from Ahmedabad Gujrat after making prior reservation or that he 

was tutored prior to and that is why he planned to travel Delhi prior to 

receiving the summons; that due to fear of the accused persons he has St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 27 deliberately not identified the accused before the court. He has also denied 

the suggestion that he prepared a false story regarding wearing of helmet of 

accused Praveen and Harshit when they came at his shop or that he himself 

got prepared the portrait of accused Praveen on 16.12.2009 itself on the date 

of incident and which is similar to the face of the accused Praveen. 

(27) In his cross examination by Ld. Defence counsels, witness has 

admitted that that his statement was not read out to him by the police and 

hence he is not aware what was recorded by the police. Witness has admitted 

that he is unable to tell the colour of the motorcycle because he has not seen 

the motorcycle. The witness has admitted that he cannot identify jeans pant 

Ex.P6 specifically. (28) On a specific Court Question the witness has admitted that he 

had told the Public Prosecutor in his examination in chief of having seen the 

red and black motorcycle. Witness has also admitted that he has stated in his 

cross examination that he had not seen the motorcycle that is why he cannot 

tell the colour of the motorcycle. According to him the statement he has now 

made in the cross examination that he has not seen the motorcycle is correct. 

He has denied the suggestion that he has been won over by the accused and it 

is for this reason that he is supporting the defence version rather than what he 

had earlier told the the prosecution. (29) PW11 Harish is the maternal uncle (Mama) of the accused 

Harshit Prabhakar who deals in denting business. He has deposed that he 

does not remember the date, month but perhaps in December 2010 he had St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 28 gone to A­32, Subhdra Colony, Sarai Rohilla in the house of his sister. 

According to him, on that day police official reached there along with 

accused Harshit and police made inquiries from him. Witness has further 

deposed that thereafter, police prepared some documents and obtained his 

signature which was not read over to him. He has testified that police did not 

conduct any other investigation there and nothing was recovered in his 

presence. He has identified his signature at point A on document 

Ex.PW11/A. According to him, whatever he told in the court was recorded 

by the police in his statement and thereafter police left the spot along with 

accused Harshit itself. (30) The witness was cross­examined by the Ld. Addl. PP for the 

State wherein he has admitted that police along with accused Harshit came at 

A­32, Subhdra Colony, Sarai Rohilla on 12.01.2010 and that police asked the 

neighbourer to join the investigation but none of them agreed to join the 

investigation. Witness has also admitted that police asked him to join the 

investigation on which he agreed but has denied the suggestion that accused 

Harshit led them in bed room at second floor and lifted a polythene from the 

bed box and told that it contained Rs.1,00,000/­(one lac) which money he 

hide for his personal use. He has also denied the suggestion that police 

checked the polythene and it found to contain two packets of currency notes 

with the denomination of Rs.500/­ and on counting they were of Rs. One lac; 

that police kept both the packets of currency in the same polythene and same 

were turned into cloth parcel and sealed with the seal of RS. However, when St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 29 confronted with his statement Ex.PW11/B where the aforesaid facts were 

found so recorded. He has further denied the suggestion that police seized 

the said parcel vide Ex.PW11/A in his presence and after going through the 

contents of seizure memo he signed the same. (31) The case property i.e. one polythene was put to the witness and 

it was suggested that it was the same polythene which was got recovered by 

the accused Harshit from his bed box in the bed room at Second floor at 

house No. A­32, Subhadra Colony, Sarai Rohilla. However, the witness has 

stated that no money was recovered in the polythene in his presence, the said 

polythene bag is Mark PW11/1. Further, the case property i.e. cloth of 

parcel and photocopies of the currency notes were also put to the witness, but 

he has not been able to identify the same and has stated that no parcel was 

prepared in his presence and nothing was recovered. (32) He has testified that Harshit is his bhanja i.e. son of his sister 

Chanderkanta. The witness has denied the suggestion that since the accused 

Harshit is his closed relative that is why he has denied the facts about the 

recovery of Rs. One lac at his instance from the house of his sister. He has 

denied the suggestion that Mark PW11/1 was recovered alongwith Rs. One 

lac from the bed box of the bed room of accused Harshit and it was turned 

into a cloth parcel by the Investigating Officer and sealed with the seal of RS 

subsequently Investigating Officer prepared seizure memo Ex.PW11/A and 

he has gone through the contents of the seizure memo then he signed. The 

witness has also denied the suggestion that he has been won over by the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 30 accused persons due to close relation that is why he has deposed falsely and 

deliberately not identified the case property. This witness has not been cross­

examined by the Ld. Defence Counsels. (33) PW12 Supriya wife of the accused Jitesh Gogia has deposed 

that presently, she is working as Assistant Manager in the Company namely 

EXL Services, Sector­58, Noida and prior to this job she was posted as Team 

Developer in Bank of America from October 2009 to December 2011, prior 

to this she was working as Banking Officer in ICICI Bank, Ashok Vihar, 

Phase­II, Delhi where she worked from 30 June 2008 to 30 September, 2009. 

According to her, since she got the job in Bank of America therefore she left 

the job of ICICI Bank. She has deposed that at that time she was having 

mobile No. 9911998444 and was the user of that phone. Witness has also 

deposed that this phone was in the name of Jitesh Gogia who was her Fiancée 

(Mangetar) at that time and now he is her husband. According to the witness 

in ICICI Bank she was handling the job of customer quarries and during 

office hours nobody was allowed to meet her. She has also deposed that she 

never met anybody till she posted there and Jitesh Gogia or his associates 

never made transaction through ICICI Bank, Ashok Vihar. The witness has 

testified that Jitesh Gogia never inquired her about any customer of the ICICI 

Bank and she never told accused Jitesh Gogia regarding any customer of the 

ICICI Bank. According to her, the exact date she does not remember but it 

was in the month of January, 2010 police called her on which she along with 

her parents went to Ashok Vihar in a office, she is not aware whether it was a St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 31 police station or not. The witness has also deposed that police made 

inquiries from her and whatever she stated was recorded by them. She does 

not remember if she told any other facts to the police due to lapse of time of 

about two years nor does she remember if she told to the police any fact in 

respect of accused Jitesh Gogia. (34) Since the witness was residing from her previous statement 

therefore she was cross­examined by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State, wherein 

he has admitted that she told to the police in her statement that accused Jitesh 

Gogia was studying with her in the college but she did not tell to the police 

that accused Jitesh Gogia was her friend. However, when confronted with 

her statement Ex.PW12/A the said facts was found so recorded on which the 

witness has voluntarily explained that she told to the police that talks of their 

marriage were going on and roka ceremonies had been performed. Witness 

has denied the suggestion that she told to the police in her statement that she 

also dealt in the cash counter of ICICI Bank. When confronted with 

statement Ex.PW12/A the said fact was found so recorded. She has denied 

the suggestion that she had told to the police in her statement that accused 

Jitesh Gogia used to visit her with his friend Harshit in the Bank and used to 

make transaction through ICICI Bank on many times. When confronted with 

her statement Ex.PW12/A the said fact was found so mentioned. Witness 

has further deposed that she is not known to accused Harshit nor she can 

identify him. She has denied the suggestion that she told the police in her 

statement that in the month of August­September 2009 when accused Jitesh St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 32 Gogia and accused Harshit came to her Bank at that time, their bank 

customer namely Deepak Gupta was depositing heavy cash in the Bank; that 

during talks with Jitesh he asked about that customer and she told him that he 

is a premium customer of their bank and used to deposit heavy cash in the 

bank; that she did not tell the address of that customer to the Jitesh and 

Harshit because she was not aware about it; that due to innocence 

information given to the Jitesh Gogia, they committed robbery. However, 

when confronted with her statement Ex.PW12/A the said facts where found 

so recorded. (35) Initially her examination in chief was deferred on 29.2.2012. On 

15.3.2012 when she appeared when it was observed by this Court that she had 

come in the court and after about 15 to 20 minutes left the court room with 

the counsel for the accused and again appeared in the court to depose along 

with the counsel for the accused namely Jitesh Gogia. (Note: this demeanor 

of the witness being important has been specifically recorded).

(36) In her further cross­examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for the 

State the witness has deposed that the mobile number of Jitesh Gogia is 

8010070058 and prior to this number he was having mobile number 

9911992444 and so far as her knowledge is concern accused Jitesh Gogia was 

not having account in ICICI Bank. She has admitted that if any person is 

having an account in ICICI Bank of any branch, he can operate his account 

from any branch of ICICI Bank situated anywhere. Witness has denied the 

suggestion that she had been dealing with cash for a few months and this St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 33 fact is reflected in the reply filed by his office to the query put by the 

Investigating Officer U/s 91 Cr.P.C . which reply is Ex.PW12/PX­1 

(running into three pages) and has further voluntarily explained that she 

sometime used to deal with small amount of cash at a different counter 

whereas the main cash counter was responsibility of other official. She 

has admitted that she was in continuous touch with accused Jitesh Gogia 

during the period 12.01.2009 till the date of offence and has voluntarily 

explained that because he was her Fiancee. She does not recollect the 

date but she was engaged in the month of January 2007 again said 2008 

and was married with Jitesh Gogia on 14.4.2011 but she cannot produce 

any documentary record of the engagement. Witness has denied the 

suggestion that she is giving the wrong date of engagement only to justify the 

frequent call details as reflected in the CDR Ex.PW12/PX­2 (running into 

six pages) or that she used to pass the information regarding the bank 

transaction to Jitesh Gogia and his friend Harshit. She has admitted that she 

had spoken to accused Jitesh Gogia on 14.12.2009 and 15.12.2009 on his 

mobile phone which entries are reflected in the CDR Ex.PW12/PX­2 at 

various points bracketed as A. Witness has denied the suggestion that being 

a friend she furnished the information to Jitesh Gogia and his friends so that 

she would enjoy her life lavishly with accused Jitesh Gogia after marriage. 

According to her, she has only one brother and her father is a businessman 

who is a contractor and she has no idea about the earning of her father. She St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 34 has testified that her mother is a housewife and her brother and she herself 

are twins and her brother is working at Adobe but she has no idea about his 

post. She has also deposed that her husband accused Jitesh are four brother 

and sisters and Jitesh is youngest in his family and is having his own house 

and his parents also having their own house. The witness has admitted that 

her lifestyle and of accused Jitesh Gogia is very well and that whatever they 

are earning they spent and has voluntarily explained that they also make 

some savings. She has denied the suggestion that on account of their lavish 

lifestyle they could not meet their day to day expenses and it is for this reason 

she passed the information regarding bank transactions to Jitesh Gogia and 

his friend or that Jitesh Gogia and his friends used to visit in her ICICI Bank 

branch and also made transactions from there. She has further denied the 

suggestion that friends of Jitesh Gogia were also having lavish life and 

always in need of money for their expenditures or that since prior to the 

occurrence she and Jitesh Gogia were in need of money to spend on each 

other therefore she passed the information in respect of Guptaji. 

(37) In her cross examination by Ld. Defence counsel, the witness 

has deposed that she knew Jitesh Gogia since the year 2004 when she met 

him in college and since then she is in regular touch with him out of love and 

affection. (38) The witness Ms. Supriya has been recalled for additional cross­

examination by Addl. PP for State wherein the witness has denied the 

suggestion that she has been won over by the accused persons, due to which St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 35 she has deposing falsely. She has also denied the suggestion that she made 

her actual statement to the police. Witnesses proving electronic record: photocopy of the plan of the said mobile number which is Ex.PW2/H; St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 36 photocopy of appointment letter of applicant Deepak Gogia with Life 

Insurance of Kotak which is Ex.PW2/I; photocopy of the declaration letter 

which is Ex.PW2/J; photocopy of the salary package which is Ex.PW2/K 

which is in continuation of Ex.PW2/I; photocopy of the election identity card 

in two pages which is Ex.PW2/L and Ex.PW2/L­1. He has also proved the 

attested copy of call details of mobile no. 9873222031 for the period of 

01.12.2009 to 02.01.2010 running in 35 pages which are collectively 

Ex.PW2/M, certificate under Section 65 ­B of Evidence Act in respect of the 

same which is Ex.PW2/M1; call details of mobile no. 9873670551 for the 

period 01.12.2009 to 02.01.2010 running in 20 pages which are collectively 

Ex.PW2/N, certificate under Section 65 ­B regarding the correctness of the 

above call details which is Ex.PW2/N­1; call details for mobile number 

9999337000 for the period 20.12.2009 to 31.12.2009 running in six pages 

which are collectively Ex.PW2/O and certificate regarding the correctness of 

the call details under Section 65 ­B Evidence Act which is Ex.PW2/O­1. 

According to the witness, at the time of investigation the above call details 

were provided to the Investigating Officer through E Mail.

(41) In his cross examination by the Ld. Defence Counsels, the 

witness has deposed that in order to get the call details and CDR, he operated 

his own PC and download the same. According to the witness, the proforma 

of the certificate under Section 65 ­B was fed in his PC and he took the print 

out of the present case after inserting the concerned number therein which St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 37 practice he has also adopted in the present case. The witness has further 

deposed that the Mobile Switching Centre of their company was also situated 

in Okhla itself and the work of the MSC was to switch call from one tower to 

another for the calls to mature. According to him, on that day in Delhi, there 

are 21 MSC working for Vodaphone and there are approximately 5000 towers 

working for Vodaphone. He has explained that when a call was made, then 

digital signature of the call was recorded in the server. The witness has 

further deposed that they had only one server for the CDR but he never 

worked on the server and he has no physical accessibility to the server and 

MSC and has voluntarily explained that the network engineers used to work 

with the server as well as MSC. According to the witness, if a call was made 

to a particular number and the concerned tower was congested or busy the 

said call would be routed through the other nearest tower and in the CDR the 

tower through which the call was routed, has been reflected. He has further 

testified that the coverage of a tower in residential area is .5 to 2.5 km 

approximately. (42) PW4 Sh. Shishir Malhotra Nodal Officer from Aircel Limited 

has brought original customer information form of mobile no. 9716451108 

which was issued in the name of Deepak Gogia S/o Om Prakash Gogia R/o 

D­1/3, Rama Vihar, Block D, Mohd. Pur, Maajri, Delhi - 110039. He has 

placed on record the photocopy of application form having the photograph 

duly certified which is Ex.PW4/A; attested photocopy of the PAN Card and 

photocopy of the RC of the vehicle no. DL 8C J4276 which is Ex.PW4/B; St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 38 call details of the mobile no. 9716451108 for the period 13.12.09 to 18.12.09 

running in four pages which are collectively Ex.PW4/C; certificate under Section 65 ­B Evidence Act which is Ex.PW4/D and complete covering letter 

which is Ex.PW4/E. He has also proved the attested copy of the cell ID 

Location Chart for the mobile number 919716451108 is Ex.PW4/F attested by 

him with seal impression. He has testified that the first two digits of mobile 

number i.e. 91 is the code of India and remaining is the mobile number and 

the during the investigation the call details and location chart have been 

provided to the Investigating Officer by the then Nodal Officer Mr. Gulshan 

Arora. He has not been cross­examined by the Ld. Defence Counsels despite 

opportunity in this regard and his testimony has gone uncontroverted. 

Police witnesses: Pawan for handing over the same to SI Satya Prakash. He has not been cross­

examined by the Ld. Defence Counsels despite opportunity and his testimony 

has gone uncontroverted. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 39 (44) PW8 Ct. Pawan has deposed that on 16.12.2009 he was posted 

at Police Station Ashok Vihar and on that day on the receipt of DD No.10­A 

he along with Investigating Officer SI Satya Prakash reached at C2/31, Ashok 

Vihar, Phase­II where father of Deepak Gupta met them and had given his 

statement on the basis of which SI Satya Prakash prepared the rukka. 

According to the witness, he took the same to the police station for 

registration of the FIR and after getting the case registered, he came back at 

the spot with copy of FIR and original rukka and handed over to the same to 

the Investigating Officer. He has proved that SI Satya Prakash took one pant 

from press­wala into possession vide seizure memo Ex.PW8/A. He has 

identified the said pant which is Ex.P6. This witness has not been cross­

examined by the Ld. Defence Counsels despite opportunity in this regard and 

his testimony has gone uncontroverted. (45) PW9 HC Banar Singh is the MHCM who has deposed that on 

16.12.2009 SI Satya Prakash deposited one pant which he took vide entry no. 

4458 of register no. 19 copy of which is Ex.PW9/A. He has also deposed 

that on 3.1.2010 SI Rajiv Ranjan had deposited one car bearing No. DL 4C 

AJ 6389, another car bearing No. DL 4 SA F0113, one motorcycle bearing 

no. DL 4S BD 5343, another motorcycle bearing no. DL 4S AG­0277, 

another parcel duly sealed with the seal of RS containing Rs.40 lacs, another 

pullanda duly sealed with the seal of RS containing Rs. 25 lacs, another 

parcel duly sealed with the seal of RS containing Rs. 30 lacs, one mobile 

phone duly sealed with the seal of RS bearing mobile phone number St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 40 9873670551 having two SIMS, another parcel containing NOKIA mobile 

having number 9873222031, another mobile NOKIA E­90 having mobile 

number 9716451108 with the same seal and all the aforesaid parcels were 

received by him vide entry no. 3202 of register no. 19 copy of which is 

Ex.PW9/B. The witness has also testified that on the same day he also 

received the articles recovered from the possession of the accused Vikas 

Agarwal, Parveen Goel and Harshit Prabhakar vide same entry. He has 

further deposed that on 4.1.2010 SI Rajiv Ranjan deposited one sealed parcel 

containing Rs.1 lac duly sealed with the same seal, another parcel sealed with 

the same seal containing one check shirt, one jeans pant, one towel of small 

size, one handkerchief of cream colour, one under wear of black colour make 

Joky, articles recovered from the personal search of accused Jitesh Gogia 

which he had taken into possession vide entry no. 3203 of register no. 19 

copy of which is Ex.PW9/C. According to the witness, on 12.1.2010 SI Rajiv 

Ranjan had deposited one parcel duly sealed with the seal of RS containing 

Rs. One lac which he received vide entry no. 3211 of register no. 19 copy of 

which is Ex.PW9/D. 

(46) In his cross­examination the witness has admitted that he had 

not mentioned any time of deposition of the articles vide entry no. 3202, 

3203, 3211 and 4458 nor can he tell the same. He has admitted that the 

contents of the seizure memo had been mentioned in the register. He has 

denied the suggestion that the entries had been ante­timed and ante­dated by 

him in connivance with the Investigating Officer only for purposes of St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 41 ensuring penal consequences to the accused and that the articles / pullandas 

remain always available with the Investigating Officer and were not 

physically deposited in the malkhana. (47) PW13 Insp. Satya Prakash has deposed that on 16.12.2009 he 

was posted at police station Ashok Vihar and on that day he received DD No. 

10A attested copy of the same is Ex.PW13/A regarding daicoity was 

committed at phase II, house No. C­2/31 on which he along with Ct. Pawan 

reached the spot. According to him, complainant Puran Chand Gupta met 

him there and recorded his statement which is Ex.PW3/A and prepared 

rukka Ex.PW13/B and handed over to Ct. Pawan for registration of the FIR 

and Ct. Pawan left the spot. The witness has deposed that he recorded the 

statement of Jyoti and prepared the site plan of the spot at the instance of 

Puran Chand which is Ex.PW13/C and in the meantime Ct. Pawan returned 

to the spot and handed over copy of FIR and original rukka to him. Witness 

has also deposed that he joined public witness Dharmender and Amit who 

were running a thaiya for ironing the clothes near the place of occurrence and 

witness Dharmender produced one jeans pant before him and told that the tall 

boy having slight beard, handed over the same for ironing and also standing 

there for some time and thereafter he left the thaiya without taking his pant 

and seized that blue jeans pant vide Ex.PW8/A. He has testified that he 

recorded statement of witness Dharmender and Amit and subsequently he 

also recorded supplementary statement of Puran Chand Gupta. The witness 

has proved that he also got prepared a portrait at the instance of Jyoti and St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 42 Amit through HC Mahender on the same day which portrait is 

Ex.PW13/D and recorded statement of Ct. Pawan. He has further deposed 

that he tried to search the accused persons but they were not traceable. 

According to him the investigations remained with him upto 24.12.2009 and 

thereafter he proceeded on leave on which he deposited the case file with 

MHC(R). He has identified the blue jeans pant as the same as produced by 

Dharmender, which is Ex.P6. (48) In his cross examination by the Ld. Defence counsel, the witness 

has admitted that there are residential houses on the both sides of the house 

of complainant and has voluntarily explained that there is a park in front of 

the house of complainant. According to him the road outside the house of 

complainant is a thoroughfare and used by the public. He has testified that he 

made inquiries from the occupants of adjoining houses of the complainant 

but they did not tell anything about the incident. He does not remember the 

name of those occupants of the adjoining houses. Witness has further 

deposed that no public person was found present on the spot when he reached 

there, except the thaiya of Dharmender and Amit. According to him, there 

were three employees of the complainant in the house who made inquiries 

from the complainant family about any maid / servant of their house but they 

informed that they had not kept any maid or servant. Witness has also 

deposed that he did not made any inquiry in respect of their cook from the 

complainant and after reaching the spot he did not make any inquiry as to 

who was the informant of DD No.10A and explained that Pooran Chand St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 43 informed him that some family member had informed the police. According 

to the witness, he did not inquire as to from which phone number the DD No.

10A was recorded and he did not inquire as to who was the subscriber of the 

phone number mentioned in DD No.10A. He has further deposed that he 

received the DD No.10A when he was present in the police station Ashok 

Vihar, when he recorded the statement of Jyoti and prepared the site plan, he 

had not mentioned the FIR details on those documents however sections were 

mentioned therein and clarified that after arrival of Ct. Pawan he mentioned 

the FIR details on the documents. Witness has denied the suggestion that no 

rukka was sent through Ct. Pawan or that the proceedings regarding 

registration of FIR including the preparation of rukka were conducted in the 

police station only. Witness has admitted that he has not marked any place of 

the position of any culprit, complainant and witnesses in site plan 

Ex.PW13/C. He has admitted that in the said site plan, no place of thaiya of 

Dharmender and Amit has been marked and that in the site plan he has not 

marked any place as to where the vehicle of the complainant was parked or 

that he has not shown / marked any spot as to where the alleged robbery 

taken place. The witness has further admitted that he has not marked any 

place in the site plan as to where the alleged motorcycles were parked or that 

he has not shown the direction from where the motorcycle had come and the 

direction in which it had gone. He has further deposed that he left the spot at 

about 2.30PM alongwith Ct. Pawan and thereafter no other police official 

remained there. According to the witness, SHO also visited the spot during St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 44 his stay there and reached the spot at about 10.00AM and left the spot at 

about 11.00AM but no other senior officer visited there. He has denied the 

various suggestions put by the Ld. Defence counsels. (49) PW14 Insp. Rajeev Shah has deposed that on 03.01.2010 he 

was posted as SI at Special Staff, North West and on that day he joined the 

investigations of this case when HC Naresh informed to the ACP who 

constituted two teams one headed by SI Rajeev Ranjan and the other team 

was headed by him (witness) and he was instructed to deploy the team at 

Multan Nagar. According to the witness, Ct. Sohan Lal was with them and 

had already identified the house of accused Parveen Goyal and he along with 

his team consisting of Ct. Sohan Lal, Ct. Baljeet, Ct. Anand and ASI Suresh 

left the office of Special Staff and went to Multan Nagar. He has also 

deposed that in the way he was in the contact of SI Rajeev Ranjan who 

headed the other team and he (witness) deployed his staff at gate No.5, 

Multan Nagar, Hari Singh park. According to him, SI Rajeev Ranjan 

informed him that his team was following the i­10 vehicle of white color 

bearing No. DL­4CAJ­6389 which was moving towards Multan Nagar side 

and also instructed him to keep a watch on the vehicle on which he 

accordingly instructed his staff. Witness has further deposed that at around 

3:00 PM the said white color i­10 car bearing the same number came to gate 

No.5 Multan Nagar and took a left turn on the service road on which he 

immediately blocked the way of i­10 car by putting his car in front of it and 

HC Naresh who was following the said car put his car behind the i­10 car. He St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 45 has testified that he along with HC Naresh apprehended the boy who was 

driving the i­10 car and in the meantime SI Rajiv Ranjan also reached there 

and the said boy disclosed his name as Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky also 

disclosed about his involvement in the robbery of this case. According to the 

witness, Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky informed them that he tried to run away 

with the money outside the Delhi and his associate Deepak Gogia had 

already gone to Bombay whereas Parveen would arrive shortly with the 

money. He has testified that subsequently accused Praveen Goel was arrested 

near Gate No.5, Multan Nagar who also confessed about his crime about the 

robbery at Ashok Vihar and thereafter the i­10 car bearing No. 

DL­4CAJ­6389 was searched and it found to contain one black color bag in 

the diggi which was containing bundles of currency notes totaling Rs.

70,00,000/­ (Seventy Lacs) which the accused disclosed as the looted amount 

from the Ashok Vihar robbery and containing his share as well as that of 

Deepak Gogia. The witness has further deposed that each packet of currency 

note was having a slip having a stamp of Hari Ram Puran Chand proprietor 

and on the back side the mark of ICICI Bank was affixed. He has proved that 

all the currency notes were turned into a cloth parcel in the same bag and 

sealed with the seal of RS after which it was taken into possession vide 

memo Ex.PW14/A and thereafter the accused Vikas Aggarwal was arrested 

vide memo Ex.PW14/B and his personal search was conducted vide 

Ex.PW14/C. Witness has also deposed that the mobile phone of Vikas @ 

Vicky was taken into possession in running condition. According to the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 46 witness, on searching the bag of the accused Parveen Goyal it found to 

contain packets of the currency notes totaling Rs.25,00,000/­ (Twenty Five 

Lacs) and the packets were containing slips having written Hari Ram Puran 

Chand proprietor and the other side was having mark of ICICI Bank. He has 

proved that the recovered cash was again turned into a cloth parcel in the 

same bag and sealed with the seal of RS after which it was taken into 

possession vide memo Ex.PW14/D and accused Parveen Goyal was arrested 

vide memo Ex.PW14/E and his personal search was conducted vide memo 

Ex.PW14/F. Witness has further deposed that the mobile of the Parveen 

Goyal was also taken into possession in running condition but he does not 

remember the number of the said mobile. According to him the accused 

Parveen Goyal disclosed that the said mobile was used by him during the 

robbery committed at Ashok Vihar on 16.12.2009 and in the meantime on the 

mobile phone of Vikas Aggarwal one call was received and Vikas told that it 

was the phone of Harshit Prabhakar. Thereafter at the instance of accused 

Vikas Aggarwal, the accused Harshit Prabhakar was located at Liberty 

Cinema and was apprehended by him (witness), HC Naresh and SI Rajeev 

Ranjan which he was standing near his ford Endeavor car bearing No. 

DL­4C­AF­0113. The witness has testified that the said car was checked and 

it found to contain one blue color bag lying under the dash board near the 

adjacent seat of the driving seat and it found to contain packets of currency 

notes totalling Rs.25,00,000/­ (Twenty Five lacs) and each packet was having 

a slip having written Hari Ram Puran Chand proprietor and on the other side St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 47 marka of ICICI bank. He has proved that the said currency notes were sealed 

and seized vide memo Ex.PW14/G after which the accused Harshit was 

arrested vide memo Ex.PW14/H, his personal search was conducted vide 

memo Ex.PW14/I and the car bearing No. DL­4CA­F0113 was taken into 

possession vide memo Ex.PW14/J. He has also proved that when the 

accused Vikas was arrested his car Hundai i­10 No. DL­4CAJ­6389 was also 

seized vide memo Ex.PW14/K. Witness has further deposed that the mobile 

of the accused Harshit Prabhakar was also taken into possession after which 

they returned to their office. He has proved that the mobile of accused 

Parveen Goyal make NOKIA E­90 bearing mobile No. 9716451108 and 

IMEI No. 353660010946147 was taken into possession vide memo 

Ex.PW14/L, mobile of accused Vikas make SPICE M4580 having number 

9873670551 with dual SIM having number 931171120 also having IMEI No. 

863263008371460 and IMEI No. 86326300837478 was taken into possession 

vide Ex.PW14/M and the mobile of accused Harshit make NOKIA having 

number 9873222031 bearing IMEI No. 358249039815800 was taken into 

possession vide Ex.PW14/N. The witness has further proved that all the 

three accused persons were thoroughly interrogated and they made their 

disclosure statements regarding the incident and about the involvement of the 

co­accused persons, the disclosure statement of accused Harshit Prabhakar is 

Ex.PW14/O, disclosure statement of accused Vikas is Ex.PW14/P and 

disclosure statement of accused Parveen Goyal is Ex.PW14/Q. Witness has St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 48 further testified that in pursuance of their disclosure statement accused Vikas 

led them to house No. C­5/6, Mahalaxmi Society, Rama Vihar from where he 

got recovered Caliber motorcycle bearing No. DL­4SAQ­0277 of Red Color 

which was used by him in the robbery at Ashok Vihar, which motorcycle was 

seized vide Ex.PW14/R and in pursuance of their disclosure statements 

accused Vikas, Parveen and Harshit led them to house No. D1/3, Rama Vihar 

near Gas godown and pointed out towards a motorcycle of blue black color 

make Bajaj Discover bearing No. DL­4SBD­5343 belonging to Deepak 

Gogia, which was taken into possession vide memo Ex.PW14/R1. 

(50) The witness has further deposed that on 04.01.2010 all the three 

accused persons were produced before the Ld. Area Magistrate and sent in 

Judicial Custody after which he along with HC Naresh, SI Rajeev Ranjan 

reached at Sarai Rohilla, Subhadara colony in search of Jitesh Gogia and 

Deepak Gogia where one secret informer informed to the Investigating 

Officer that Jitesh Gogia and Deepak Gogia are cousin brothers and Jitesh 

Gogia would come in the night itself and further informed that Deepak Gogia 

was away in Bombay whereas Jitesh Gogia would go to Mumbai in the night 

and he would reach railway station through metro. According to the witness 

at about 7:00 PM at the instance of secret informer the accused Jitesh Gogia 

was apprehended near the stairs which leads to the metro station Shastri 

Nagar from Subhadara colony side. He has also deposed that the plastic bag 

which the accused was carrying was checked and it found to contain some 

clothes and two packets of currency notes totalling Rs. One lacs. According St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 49 to the witness, the accused disclosed that the said amount was given to him 

by Deepak Gogia for providing information about Guptaji (victim) of 

depositing the cash in ICICI Bank and Deepak had given him Rs.1,50,000/­ 

out of which Rs.50,000/­ has been spent by him and remaining amount would 

be given to him by Deepak Gogia after his return from Mumbai. He has 

proved that the parcel of the currency notes and of the bag with clothes were 

prepared after which the currency notes were seized vide memo 

Ex.PW14/R2 and bag with the clothes was seized vide memo Ex.PW14/R3. 

The witness has also proved that accused Jitesh Gogia was arrested vide 

memo Ex.PW14/R4, his personal search was conducted vide memo 

Ex.PW14/R5 and the disclosure statement of the accused was recorded 

which is Ex.PW14/R6. The witness has testified that on 10.01.2010 he again 

joined the investigations of the present case when the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar, Parveen Goyal and Vikas Aggarwal were interrogated and their 

supplementary disclosure statement were recorded which are Ex.PW14/S, 

Ex.PW14/S1 & Ex.PW14/S2. According to the witness, on 12.01.2010 he 

again joined the investigations of this case and on that day accused Harshit 

pointed out his house at A­32, Subhadra Colony, Sarai Rohilla where one 

relative of Harshit Prabhakar namely Harish was joined to which he agreed. 

He has proved that the accused Harshit led them at his bed room situated at 

second floor and lifted a polythene bag from the bed box which was 

containing Rs. One lacs as part of robbed amount. The witness has further 

proved that the currency notes were thereafter sealed and seized vide memo St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 50 Ex.PW11/A.

(51) He has correctly identified the accused persons in the Court and 

also identified the case property i.e. car bearing No. DL­4CAF­0113 Ford 

Endeavor which is Ex.PXX; car bearing No. DL­4CAJ­6389 make i­10 of 

white color which is Ex.PYY; motorcycle bearing No. DL­4SAQ­0277 of 

Bajaj Caliber of red color recovered at the instance of accused Vikas which 

motorcycle is Ex.PZZ; motorcycle bearing No. DL­4SBD­5343 of Bajaj 

Discover of blue black color which was recovered at the instance of accused 

Vikas, Parveen and Harshit which motorcycle is Ex.PXZ; one black jacket, 

one checkdar shirt, one blue jeans, one towel, one handkerchief and one 

underwear in a plastic bag as the articles recovered with the bag from Jitesh 

Gogia which are collectively Ex.P7 including the plastic bag; one black color 

bag with lines and checks of stitching & photocopies of the currency notes in 

denomination of Rs 1000/­ and Rs 500/­ which were recovered from the 

accused Vikas Aggarwal which bag is Ex.P1; another grey color bag and 

photocopies of the currency notes which bag is Ex.P2; another blue color bag 

and photocopies of the currency notes which bag is Ex.P8; photocopies of 

currency notes totaling Rs.1 crore 25 lacs which are collectively Ex.P5; one 

mobile phone make SPICE M­4580 bearing IMEI No. 863263008371460 

and 86326300837478 with two SIM and battery recovered from the 

possession of the accused Vikas Aggarwal which is Ex.P9; one mobile phone 

make NOKIA E­90 bearing IMEI No. 353660010946147 with one SIM and St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 51 battery recovered from the possession of the accused Parveen Goyal which is 

Ex.P10; mobile phone make NOKIA bearing IMEI No. 358249039815800 

with one SIM and battery recovered from the possession of the accused 

Harshit Prabhakar which is Ex.P11. (52) The witness has been cross­examined by the Ld. Defence 

Counsel at length wherein he has deposed that the Investigating Officer did 

not join any public witness at the time of recording to the disclosure 

statements which were recorded in the AATS Office in late night hours at 

about 10:00 PM. According to him the, the accused Jitesh Gogia was 

apprehended at around 7 PM but the Investigating Officer did not join any 

public person, metro staff, private security, CISF staff at the time of 

apprehension and arrest of accused Jitesh Gogia and also at the time of 

seizure of currency notes and bag. He is not aware if the Investigating 

Officer had taken the footage of the CCTV of the spot where the accused 

Jitesh was apprehended. Witness has admitted that there was no seal of ICICI 

bank on the currency notes seized from the possession of accused Jitesh. 

(53) According to the witness, on 03.01.2010 he had joined the 

investigations on the directions of the ACP Operation who first briefed him 

and thereafter by SI Rajiv Ranjan. He has further deposed that it was around 

1:00 PM when he was present in the office that he was told about the secret 

information by SI Rajiv Ranjan. He has testified that they were briefed about 

the details of the accused Parveen resident of Multan Nagar, of accused Vikas 

Aggarwal resident of Begampur, of accused Deepak Gogia resident of St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 52 Begampur and of accused Harshit Prabhakar resident of Subhadra colony and 

they were also told about the telephone numbers being used by the said 

persons and it was around 1­1:30 PM when they got this briefing. He has 

further deposed that for the first time they spotted the i­10 car was at Multan 

Nagar, service lane at around 3:00 PM and it was SI Rajiv Ranjan who 

informed him on telephone that Vikas was driving the i­10 car. According to 

him, none of the members of the police party in his car could identify Vikas 

and has voluntarily explained that HC Naresh was the only one who could 

identify him, who was in the other car with SI Rajeev Ranjan. Witness has 

further deposed that as soon as they stopped the i­10 car by obstructing it 

with their vehicle, it hardly took a minute for the other police party headed by 

SI Rajeev Ranjan to reach the spot and by that time he and HC Naresh who 

was in the other car had already apprehended Vikas. On a specific court 

question the witness has clarified that there were three cars, one in which he 

was present along with his team, second in which HC Naresh was present 

along with one constable and in the third SI Rajeev Ranjan was with his 

team. He has further deposed that a mechanics of the surrounding shops had 

come near the car but when they showed their I­Card, they went away. 

Witness has further deposed that in his presence Investigating Officer did not 

call any person from the residential area to join the proceedings. He has 

testified that when they searched the i­10 car they did not find any document 

in the car relating to Vikas Aggarwal or confirming his identity or the 

ownership of the car. According to him after the arrest of accused Vikas the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 53 information was given to his family but he is unable to tell the name of the 

person to whom the information was given and by which mode and what 

time. Witness has further deposed that Parveen Goyal came to the spot after 

about 10­15 minutes of apprehension of accused Vikas and when Parveen 

Goyal had reached the spot, the amount recovered from Vikas had been kept 

in the dikki of the same i­10 car. He has testified that before the 

apprehension of Parveen Goyal, formally no documents of recovery / seizure 

pertaining to Vikas Aggarwal were prepared due to lack of time, since the 

accused had informed them that Parveen Goyal was also going to come hence 

documentations were kept pending. Witness has admitted that formally the 

arrest memo of accused Vikas was not prepared nor any document of 

personal search or disclosure was prepared. Witness has admitted that at that 

time before Parveen Goyal was apprehended he was not know the details 

regarding the denominations and number of currency notes recovered and has 

voluntarily explained that he came to know of it later after Parveen Goyal was 

apprehended. According to him, no public person was joined at the time 

when the seizure memos of the recovered currency notes from Vikas 

Aggarwal and Parveen Goyal were prepared. He has further deposed that all 

the documents were prepared together at around 5:00 PM on the spot itself 

and no photographs / video graphs of bags recovered at the spot were taken. 

He does not recollect the time when the alleged call of Harshit had come on 

the telephone of Vikas Aggarwal and is not aware if the call detail records of 

the mobile phone of Harshit and Vikas Aggarwal were being collected by the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 54 Investigating Officer. Witness has further deposed that at the time when this 

call had come, the mobile phone of Vikas was in the possession of the 

Investigating officer and he was at the spot when the call had come. He has 

further testified that they left the spot at around 5:30 PM and reached Liberty 

Cinema at about 6 PM where the accused Harshit had been pointed out by 

Vikas at the distance of hardly ten to fifteen meters. According to the 

witness they were all in civil dress and the accused did not try to run away on 

seeing them but offered a little resistance. He has admitted that on one side of 

the road, there are residential houses and on the other side there are 

commercial establishments including a cinema hall and a petrol pump with 

large number of public persons available. According to him, in his presence 

Investigating Officer did not join any public person in the proceedings of 

apprehension, search and seizure memo nor he called any person from the 

petrol pump or cinema hall to join the proceedings. He has further deposed 

that the proceedings lasted for about one and a half hours and nobody asked 

them to remove their vehicles from the spot at that time nor any public person 

came to see what was happening. Witness has further deposed that during 

the proceedings he along with SI Rajeev Ranjan, HC Naresh and the accused 

Harshit were present inside the Ford Endeavor but the accused Vikas and 

Parveen remained inside the other vehicle with other police party. He has 

also deposed that at that time no joint interrogations was made. According to 

him, the seal of RS was handed over to HC Naresh and the seal had been 

taken by the Investigating Officer from HC Naresh as it was in his possession St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 55 after the sealing of the currency notes at Multan Nagar and after sealing the 

recovered notes from Harshit the seal was again handed back to HC Naresh. 

He has further deposed that they had not taken any photographs / video 

recordings of the recovered bag or of the Endeavor vehicle from which it was 

recovered. According to the witness, Investigating Officer did not made any 

site plan of the alleged spot of recovery from Harshit. He does not recollect 

if there was a memory card in the mobile phone recovered from the 

possession of accused Harshit. He has testified that Investigating Officer did 

not put any identification mark on the currency notes so recovered from the 

possession of Vikas, Parveen and Harshit before sealing the same. The 

witness has further deposed that prior to 12.01.2010 he had never gone to the 

house of Harshit in connection with the investigations. According to him no 

neighbours were joined during the search proceedings conducted at his house 

and has voluntarily explained that neighbours were requested to join but they 

refused. He is unable to tell the names or details of the address of the 

neighbours who refused to join the proceedings nor is he aware if the 

Investigating Officer had told the complainant to join the investigations dated 

12.01.2010. He does not recollect if Investigating Officer had taken the 

signatures of Harish on any of the documents prepared at the spot or recorded 

his statement. The witness also does not recollect if at the time when Vikas 

was apprehended his hand was already injured. Witness has denied the 

various suggestion put to him by the Ld. Defence Counsels. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 56 (54) PW15 SI Rajiv Ranjan is the Investigating Officer of the 

present case who has deposed that on 02.01.2010 he was posted at ATS, 

North West District, Delhi and on that day investigations of this case was 

handed over to him. According to him, on that day their secret informer gave 

four mobile numbers 9716451108, 999937000, 9873222031 and 9873670551 

of four suspected persons who committed the incident of this case and CDRs 

of these mobile phone were collected by them and after scrutiny it was found 

that the location of these mobile phone shows that user of mobile phone was 

present at the place of incident on the day of incident. He has deposed that 

the CDR Ex.PW15/A (running into six pages) shows the location of mobile 

no. 9873222031 on 16.12.2009 at Ashok Vihar Central Market and Phase II at 

point X on page no.2 & 3; the CDR of mobile No. 9716451108 which are 

Ex.PW15/B (running into two pages) shows the location of this mobile 

phone on 16.12.2009 at Central Market, Ashok Vihar at point X on page 1; 

CDR of mobile no. 9873670551 which is Ex.PW15/C (running into two 

pages) shows the location of this mobile phone on 16.12.2009 at Ashok Vihar 

Phase­II and Ashok Vihar Central market at point X on page no.1; the CDR 

of mobile no. 9999337000 which is Ex.PW15/D (running into four pages) 

shows the location of the mobile phone at Ashok Vihar Phase­II and Ashok 

Vihar Central Market at point X on page no.3. The witness has testified that 

on verification they came to know about the ownership of these mobile 

phones and on his directions one constable made calls to the mobile phone 

number 9716451108 and made inquiries from him during which the user told St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 57 him name as Parveen Goel, R/o WZ­30, Hari Singh Park, Multan Nagar, 

Delhi. According to him, on the same day i.e. 02.01.2010 in the evening time 

secret informer informed him that one of the suspect was coming to Deep 

Hyundai, Ashok Vihar Industrial Area for service of his i­10 car bearing 

number DL4C AJ 6389 on which he (witness) immediately gave this 

information to his senior officers and on their directions he along with his 

staff went to Deep Hyundai, Ashok Vihar Industrial Area where he came to 

know that the above said car was being used by Vishal Aggarwal who was 

using mobile number bearing no. 9873670551. Witness has further deposed 

that at about 5.00PM one person came there to receive the aforesaid car after 

which they followed him and finally the car was stopped at C­5/6, Mahalaxmi 

Society, Rama Vihar, Delhi. The witness has testified that he immediately 

informed his Senior Officers and they directed the deployment of two teams 

one at Multan Nagar and second was deployed at Mahalaxmi Society of 

Rama Vihar. (55) This witness has corroborated the testimony of PW14 Inspector 

Rajiv Shah in toto in respect of investigations dated 3.10.2010, 4.10.2010, 

10.1.2010 and 12.1.2010. He has proved the following documents: (56) Apart from the above, the witness SI Rajeev Ranjan has proved 

that on 04.01.2010 he moved an application Ex.PX­2 for TIP of the accused 

persons which was fixed for 07.01.2010. He has testified that during the 

Police Custody Remand on 11.01.2010 accused Vikas, Praveen and Harshit 

pointed out the place of incident vide Ex.PW15/A. He has further deposed 

that on 06.01.2010 he examined Supriya Kalaniya, employee of ICICI Bank 

and recorded her statement. The witness has also deposed that on 07.01.2010 

accused Vikas, Praveen and Harshit Prabhakar refused to take part in the TIP 

proceedings and he obtained the copy of TIP proceedings vide his application 

Ex.PX­6. He has further proved that on 12.01.2010 at the instance of accused 

Harshit Prabhakar Rs.1,00,000/­ were recovered from the second floor of his 

house in the presence of Harish and HC Naresh which was seized vide memo 

Ex.PW11/A. According to the witness, on 12.01.2010 the complainant 

Deepak Gupta handed over bank statements of ICICI bank and HDFC Bank 

and loan documents of Union Bank of India to him which was seized by him 

vide seizure memo Ex.PW5/D. He has testified that on 18.01.2010 Deepak 

Gupta also produced some documents of income tax and banks which he 

seized vide memo Ex.PW5/C. He has proved that during his investigations 

he recorded statements of witnesses and collected certified copies of call 

details and customer application forms from the service providers in respect 

of the abovesaid mobile phones. According to him on completion of 

investigation he submitted the charge sheet against accused Harshit, Vikas, St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 61 Praveen and Jitesh Gogia and during the investigation Deepak Gogia could 

not be arrested and hence he was declared Proclaimed Offender by the court. 

(57) He has correctly identified the accused persons in the Court and 

also identified the case property i.e. car bearing No. DL­4CAF­0113 Ford 

Endeavor which is Ex.PXX; car bearing No. DL­4CAJ­6389 make i­10 of 

white color which is Ex.PYY; motorcycle bearing No. DL­4SAQ­0277 of 

Bajaj Caliber of red color recovered at the instance of accused Vikas which 

motorcycle is Ex.PZZ; motorcycle bearing No. DL­4SBD­5343 of Bajaj 

Discover of blue black color which was recovered at the instance of accused 

Vikas, Parveen and Harshit which motorcycle is Ex.PXZ; one black jacket, 

one checkdar shirt, one blue jeans, one towel, one handkerchief and one 

underwear in a plastic bag as the articles recovered with the bag from Jitesh 

Gogia which are collectively Ex.P7 including the plastic bag; one black color 

bag with lines and checks of stitching & photocopies of the currency notes in 

denomination of Rs 1000/­ and Rs 500/­ which were recovered from the 

accused Vikas Aggarwal which bag is Ex.P1; another grey color bag and 

photocopies of the currency notes which bag is Ex.P2; another blue color bag 

and photocopies of the currency notes which bag is Ex.P8; photocopies of 

currency notes totaling Rs.1 crore 25 lacs which are collectively Ex.P5; one 

mobile phone make SPICE M­4580 bearing IMEI No. 863263008371460 and 

86326300837478 with two SIM and battery recovered from the possession of 

the accused Vikas Aggarwal which is Ex.P9; one mobile phone make 

NOKIA E­90 bearing IMEI No. 353660010946147 with one SIM and battery St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 62 recovered from the possession of the accused Parveen Goyal which is 

Ex.P10; mobile phone make NOKIA bearing IMEI No. 358249039815800 

with one SIM and battery recovered from the possession of the accused 

Harshit Prabhakar which is Ex.P11. (58) In his cross examination by Ld. Defence counsels, witness has 

deposed that the secret informer gave him the information with regard to the 

suspect on 02.01.2010 in the morning hours and secret informer told him the 

mobile phone number, however he was not aware about the particulars of the 

suspect. According to him on 02.01.2010 itself, he got the ownership and 

about the subscriber of all the phone numbers and inspite of having the 

details of the ownership and subscription of the above mentioned phone 

numbers neither he issued any notice to the subscribers of those numbers nor 

he send any police officials to their respective residence in order to join them 

in the investigations or to verify about their phone numbers. Witness has 

admitted that near the house of the complainant there is a huge commercial 

market i.e. Deep Market situated. He has testified that the same informer 

informed him in afternoon hours that one of the suspect would be coming to 

Deep Hundai, Ashok Vihar and he came to know by way of verification on 

02.01.2010 itself that the vehicle No. DL­4C­AJ­6389 belongs to one Vishal 

Aggarwal. He has admitted that no entry in the rojnamcha with regard to the 

information given by secret informer, above said four mobile phones and i­10 

car was made. He does not remember the phone number which he was using 

during that period and also as to which phone number was being used by St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 63 Insp. Rajeev Shah nor is he able to tell the above said phone numbers even if 

time is given to him to check the same. The witness has testified that he for 

the first time spotted the said car on 03.01.2010 at about 2:00 PM near sector 

20/22 Rohini and at that time Insp. Rajiv Shah had already taken his position 

at Multan Nagar, Metro Station along with his team in his car. According to 

the witness he started chasing the said i­10 car from sector 20/22 Rohini in 

private car along with SI Surender, Ct. Kulbhushan, Ct. Mahesh, Ct. Jai 

Bhagwan whereas Insp. Rajeev Shah had already reached to Multan Nagar 

directly in his private vehicle with Ct. Sohan Lal, Ct. Anand, HC Baljeet, ASI 

Suresh. Witness has admitted that the spot i.e. gate No. 5 Multan Nagar is a 

densely populated area and there are shops on the road. He has further 

deposed that no public person came there after seeing them and no vehicle 

stopped there as to inquire as to what had happened. The witness has 

testified that there was no need for anybody to come there to inquire as they 

had not got occupant / driver of the i­10 car down and kept him inside the 

i­10 car itself, so the public person did not see anything. According to him 

they did not ask any residential public person or shop keepers to join the 

proceedings at the time of apprehension and arrest of Vikas Aggarwal and 

the information with regard to the arrest of Vikas Aggarwal was not given to 

anybody at that time and has voluntarily explained that it was given in the 

evening time, after coming to the special staff office to his father. This 

witness has been cross­examined on similar lines as that of witness PW14­

Inspector Rajiv Shah and nothing much has come out of the same. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 64 STATEMENT OF ACCUSED / DEFENCE EVIDENCE: (63) The accused Vikas Aggarwal has stated that the i­10 car 

bearing No. DL­4C­AJ­6389 belongs to his brother which was lifted by the 

police from his house to falsely implicate him in the present case. According 

to him, he was lifted from his house by the police and he did not disclose 

anything as alleged. He has further stated that nothing was recovered from 

his possession and the currency notes have been planted by the police upon 

him to falsely implicate him. He has denied having made any disclosure 

statement to the police and has alleged that his signatures were obtained 

forcibly on blank papers which were later on converted into various memos 

including the disclosure statement. According to the accused, no mobile 

phone was recovered from his possession and the said mobile phone has been 

planted upon him. He has admitted having refused to participate in Judicial 

TIP since he was shown to various persons including the witnesses in this St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 67 case and even his photographs were taken and videography was done. He has 

further stated that he is innocent and has nothing to do with the alleged 

incident. According to the accused, nothing was recovered from his 

possession or at his instance and the case property has been planted upon 

only to falsely implicate him in the present case. He has stated that he is 

running a restaurant in the partnership at Ashok Vihar where the local 

police used to come and ask for money / monthly and also used to have food 

without making the payment. The accused has further stated that even at the 

relevant period when the alleged incident had taken place the wrist of his 

right hand was fractured and he was not in a position to move freely.

(64) The accused have examined four witnesses in their defence. 

DW1 Shiv Kumar Goel is the father of accused Praveen Goel who has 

deposed that on 03.01.2010 four­five persons came at his house at about 12:45 

PM and asked about his son Parveen. According to the witness, he opened 

the door and they came inside when his son was present at home at that time. 

The witness has further deposed that he also came out from his room and in 

the meantime, son of his brother namely Gaurav and son of Jai Kumar Goel 

also came there. According to him, the said four­five persons disclosed that 

they were from Special Staff, Sector­16, Rohini and on enquiry they disclosed 

that they want to make enquiry from Parveen in regard to some case and were 

taking him at special staff office at Sector­16, Rohini and after enquiry they 

would release Parveen at evening time. He has also deposed that thereafter 

they took Parveen with them at about 1:00 PM on which his nephew Gaurav St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 68 made a telephone call from his mobile number 9212227092 at 100 number to 

the police at about 1:30 PM. The witness has further deposed that at about 8 

PM he himself, his nephew and two three neighbours reached at Special Staff 

Office, Sector­16, Rohini and made request to the officers present there to 

release his son but the officials present there disclosed that they would 

release Parveen in morning next day because investigation was going on. He 

has further deposed that on 04.01.2010 at 10:00 AM he along with his 

neighbours visited at Special Staff Office but they refused to release his son 

and disclosed that they arrested Parveen. According to the witness, his son 

was lifted from his house on 03.01.2010 at about 1:00 PM by the special staff 

officials and falsely implicated in this case. (65) In his cross­examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State the 

witness has deposed that he did not make any complaint against the police of 

special staff about the picking of his son from his house nor he made any 

complaint to any court of law in this regard. He has denied the suggestion 

that the police of the special staff had not lifted his son from his house. 

(66) The accused Parveen Goel @ Vipin has examined himself as 

DW2 wherein he has deposed that he received a reply in respect of his 

application under RTI Act from the Public Information Officer cum Addl. 

DCP of Police Control Room, Delhi in respect of call made at 100 number on 

03.01.2010 from mobile No. 9212227092 which reply of the Addl. DCP is 

Ex.DW2/A. In his cross­examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State the 

witness has admitted that Ex.DW2/A does not show the time when the call St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 69 was made. (67) DW3 Smt. Rozy Thakur is the neighbour of accused Vikas 

Aggarwal. According to the witness Vikas Aggarwal is her neighbourer and 

was residing with his full family. According to her, the accused was doing 

work in a restaurant at Ashok Vihar and on 03.01.2010 at about 9­10 AM two 

private cars came with 8­9 persons in civil clothes came and lifted Vikas 

Aggarwal who was already at home since 20­22 days because his right hand 

was fractured. He has testified that due to this reason he could not join his 

job. According to her, police officials told that they were taking Vikas for 

enquiry and on the next day she along with the neighbours went to office of 

Crime Branch at Prashant Vihar and police informed that the Vikas have 

been arrested in a case. (68) In his cross­examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State the 

witness has deposed that on 03.01.2010 she did not inform any higher police 

officials by telegram that accused Vikas had been lifted from his house nor 

did she inform any higher police officials even on the next day after they 

came to know that accused Vikas have been arrested by the police. She has 

further deposed that she also did not make any complaint to any court of law 

in this regard. She is not aware about the exact allegations against the 

accused, however, she came to know later on that he has been arrested in a 

robbery case but she is not aware how much money have been recovered 

from accused Vikas. She has also deposed that Vishal Aggarwal is the 

brother of accused Vikas who used to drive one i­10 car of white colour. She St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 70 is not aware whether the accused Vikas Aggarwal was misapprehended by 

the police at about 3:10 PM with his i­10 car at gate No. 5, Hari Singh Park, 

Multan Nagar, Delhi. She has denied the suggestion that the accused has not 

been lifted from his house on 03.01.2010 between 9 to 10 AM.

(69) DW4 Pradeep Goswami is a neighbour of the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar who has deposed that on 03.12.2009 at about 10:30 AM he was 

present at Krishna Medical Store in the gali at Subhadara Colony, Delhi­35. 

According to the witness, he saw that four­five police personnels took the 

accused Harshit Prabhakar in a car and thereafter, he is not aware where he 

has been taken. He has deposed that his father also informed him that police 

lifted his son from his house. (70) In his cross­examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State the 

witness has deposed that he has not informed any higher police officials that 

accused Harshit Prabhaker has been lifted from his house on 03.12.2009. He 

is not aware whether father of Harshit Prabhaker informed any higher police 

officials about lifting of the accused Harshit Prabhaker on 03.12.2009. He 

also does not aware whether father of Harshit Parabhaker made any 

complaint in any court of law nor is he aware when accused Harshit 

Prabhaker was arrested by police in this case or that allegations against the 

accused Harshit. He has admitted that the accused Harshit Prabhaker is a 

resident of his colony and he had come before this Hon'ble Court at the 

instance of father of accused Harshit Prabhaker. He has denied the 

suggestion that he has deposed falsely in favour of accused Harshit Prabhaker St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 71 being resident of his colony. FINDINGS: PP for the State and the Ld. Defence Counsels. I have also gone through the 

evidence on record and the written memorandum of arguments filed by the 

parties. My findings are as under: there was no way that a public notice / reward would have been announced. 

Hence, I hereby hold that the same is incriminating qua the accused Praveen 

Goel and connects him to the incident of robbery. Electronic Evidence: (78) I have examined the Call Details Record of the various mobile 

phones and it is evident that all the accused including the accused Deepak 

Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) were regularly in touch with each other. I now 

proceed to analyze the call details record of each of the accused individually.

(79) Coming first to the accused Praveen Goel who was using the 

mobile No. 9716451108 which is in the name of Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed 

Offender) which mobile set was recovered from his possession at the time of St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 76 his arrest, the relevant entries are as under: 9716451108 which was in the name of Deepak Gogia but actually used by the 

accused Praveen Goel, conclusively establishes that he was in regular touch 

with the accused Harshit and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) 

throughout the date of incident and couple of days earlier. The following 

facts emerge from the analysis of the same: From the analysis of the same the following facts emerge: (90) I have considered the rival contentions and I may observe that a 

joint reading / analysis of the aforesaid call details of the various mobile 

phone numbers show that the entries of mobile phone numbers of other 

accused persons have come on the call details record. Further, it has also 

come on record that Vishal Goel (in whose name mobile No. 9873670551 has 

been issued) is the brother of accused Vikas Aggarwal and explains the user 

of mobile phone by him. When the aforesaid material was put to the accused 

under Section 313 Cr.P.C. they have simply denied the same. In case if the 

mobile phone was not recovered from the possession of the accused then it 

became all the more necessary for the accused to explain how the number of 

the other accused persons find reflected in the same particularly those whose 

Customer Application Form has been confirmed. There is also no reason 

why Ms. Supriya (PW12) would tell a lie when she stated that the accused 

Jitesh Gogia (to whom she has now married) was using mobile No. 

9911992444. Further the analysis of the location chart of the various mobile 

phones allegedly recovered from the possession of the various accused 

establish their location during the night and early morning hours at the same 

places where they reside establishing the user of the said phones by them.

(91) It stands established from the electronic evidence on record that 

all the accused namely Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel, 

Jitesh Gogia and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) were in constant St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 93 touch with each other. Further, it stands established that the location of the 

various accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and 

Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) are in the area where the incident took 

place, not only during during the time of incident but also even a couple of 

days earlier and even during night time, thereby proving that prior to 

committing the incident the accused conducted a recce over the area. 

(92) In view of the above I hereby hold that the electronic evidence 

independently corroborates and connects the accused with the offence and is 

also compatible with the time which the accused Harshit, Vikas, Praveen and 

Deepak could have taken in first reaching to the house of Deepak Gogia at 

Rama Vihar (from the spot of occurrence at Phase­II Ashok Vihar) where 

distribution of the looted cash was done and thereafter in reaching to their 

respective houses. Vikas Aggarwal and Deepak Gogia had come to Rama 

Vihar / Karala where they reside after committing the incident at Ashok 

Vihar. Praveen Goel and Harshit Prabhakar too after the incident went first 

to Rama Vihar via Pitampura, Rohini Sector­5 and then returned to their 

respective houses at Multan Nagar via Paschim Vihar (Praveen Goel) and 

Subhadra Colony (Harshit Prabhakar) as indicated in the Call Detail Records 

of the said accused. The defence has not been able to successfully demolish 

the case put forth by the prosecution as aforesaid. Motive / Criminal Conspiracy: During the course of her official duties it came to her knowledge that huge 

money transaction are being done by a Jeweller Deepak Gupta who had an 

account in their bank, she passed on the said information to accused Jitesh 

Gogia whom she later married in the year 2011. (94) According to the prosecution case all the accused are young 

boys belonging to good families and are having a lavish life­style on account 

of which they require money from time to time and hence Jitesh Gogia 

passed on this information to his cousin brother Deepak Gogia for which 

information he was to be given his share and this accused Deepak Gogia in 

turn shared this information with his friends Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel 

and Harshit Prabhakar after which they all hatched a criminal conspiracy to 

commit an armed robbery on the complainant who used to regularly deposit / 

withdraw huge amount of cash at his bank i.e. ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar and 

HDFC Bank Patel Nagar. It is alleged that prior to the date of the incident 

the accused conducted a recee at the house of the victims and studied their 

movements. Thereafter on the date of incident i.e. 16.12.2009 first two 

accused had come on a motorcycle and conducted a recee and kept a watch at St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 95 the house of victim at C­2/31, Ashok Vihar. At about 9:15 AM while the 

victim Puran Chand and his daughter in law Jyoti were loading two bags 

containing the cash amount totalling Rs.1,55,00,000/­ (Rs. One Crore Fifty 

Five Lacs) into the vehicle as Jyoti has to drive away Puran Chand to the 

bank since Sh. Deepak Gupta (son of Sh. Puran Chand) was away to 

Ahmedabad. First two boys came on a Black coloured motorcycle and 

pushed Puran Chand as a result of which he moved ahead and when the said 

boys picked up a bag and in the meantime another motorcycle came on a Red 

coloured motorcycle and the boy riding on the pillion seat showed a pistol to 

Puran Chand and picked up another bag and thereafter all the boys escaped 

on the bikes. Both the bikes were not having number plates. According to 

the victim, the assailants were of 5­6 feet in height and were in the age group 

of 25­26 years. One of the bag was of black colour and another bag was 

having a check design and the bundles of currency notes were having the 

stamp of their firm (i.e. Hari Ram Puran Chand). The case of the prosecution 

is that the conspiracy which was hatched by the accused can be proved not 

only by the manner in which the incident has been executed reflecting a 

detailed deliberations and planning and also from the Call Details Record of 

the accused persons which show that all the accused were in constant touch 

with each other not only on the date of incident as well as a couple of days 

prior to the incident and conducted a recee / observation at the house of the 

victim. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 96 (95) In so far as the aspect of Motive is concerned I may observe that 

motive has to be gathered from the surrounding circumstances and such 

evident should form one of the links to the chain of circumstantial evidence. 

The proof of motive would only strengthen the prosecution case and fortify 

the court in its ultimate conclusion but in the absence of any connecting 

evidence or link which would be sufficient in itself from the face of it, the 

accused cannot be convicted. Motive is best known to the perpetrator of the 

crime and not to others. Motives of men are often subjective, submerged and 

unamenable to easy proof that courts have to go without clear evidence 

thereon if other clinching evidence exists. A motive is indicated to heighten 

the probability that the offence was committed by the person who was 

impelled by the motive but if the crime is alleged to have been committed for 

a particular motive, it is relevant to inquire whether the pattern of the crime 

fits in which the alleged motive. (96) Regarding the motive of crime, it may be observed that in a case 

based on circumstantial evidence, the existence of motive assumed 

significance though the absence of motive does not necessarily discredit the 

prosecution case, if the case stands otherwise established by other conclusive 

circumstances and the chain of circumstantial evidence is so complete and is 

consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and 

inconsistent with the hypothesis of his innocence. (97) Existence of motive for committing a crime is not an absolute 

requirement of law but it is always relevant fact, which will be taken into St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 97 consideration by Courts as it will render assistance to Courts while analysing 

prosecution evidence and determining guilt of accused. [Ref.: IV (2012) 

SLT 257]. (98) Further, in so far as the issue of Criminal Conspiracy is 

concerned, I may observe that since conspiracy is the primary charge against 

the accused, we first advert to the law of conspiracy - its definition, essential 

features and proof. (99) Section 120­A IPC defines "criminal conspiracy" as under:­ 

"Definition of criminal conspiracy­ When two or more person agree to do, 

or cause to be done, (1) An illegal act, or (2) An act which is not illegal by 

illegal means, such an agreement is designated a criminal conspiracy: (103) Thus, the substantive section of the IPC i.e. Section 120­A 

adumbrated thereon Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act give us the 

legislative provisions applicable to conspiracy and its proof. 

(104) After survey of the case law on the point, following legal 

principles pertaining to the law of conspiracy can be conveniently culled 

out:­ 

 (A) When two or more persons agree to commit a crime 
 of conspiracy, then regardless of making or considering any 
 plans for its commission, and despite the fact that no step is 
 taken by any such person to carry out their common 
 purpose, a crime is committed by each and every one who 
 joins in the agreement. There has thus to be two 
 conspirators and there may be more than that. To prove the 
 charge of conspiracy it is not necessary that intended crime 
 was committed or not. If committed it may further help 
 prosecution to prove the charge of conspiracy. ( State v 
 Nalini (1999) 5 SCC 253) 

 (B) The very agreement, concert or league is the 
 ingredient of the offence. It is not necessary that all the 
 conspirators must know each and every detail of the 
 conspiracy as long as they are co­participators in the main 
 object of the conspiracy. It is not necessary that all 
 conspirators should agree to the common purpose at the 
 same time. They may join with other conspirators at any 
 time before the consummation of the intended objective, and 
 all are equally responsible. What part each conspirator is to 
 play may not be known to everyone or the fact as to when a 
 conspirator joined the conspiracy and when he left. There 
 may be so many devices and techniques adopted to achieve 
 the common goal of the conspiracy and there may be St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 100 division of performances in the chain of actions with one 
 object to achieve the real end of which every collaborator 
 must be aware and in which each one of them must be 
 interested. There must be unity of object or purpose but 
 there may be plurality of means sometimes even unknown to 
 one another, amongst the conspirators. In achieving the 
 goal several offences may be committed by some of the 
 conspirators even unknown to the others. The only relevant 
 factor is that all means adopted and illegal acts done must 
 be and purported to be in furtherance of the object of the 
 conspiracy even though there may be sometimes misfire or 
 overshooting by some of the conspirators. Even if some 
 steps are resorted to by one or two of the conspirators 
 without the knowledge of the others it will not affect the 
 culpability of those others when they are associated with the 
 object of the conspiracy. But then there has to be present 
 mutual interest. Persons may be members of single 
 conspiracy even though each is ignorant of the identity of 
 many others who may have diverse role to play. It is not a 
 part of the crime of conspiracy that all the conspirators 
 need to agree to play the same or an active role. ( Yash Pal 
 Mittal v State of Punjab AIR 1977 SC 2433 and State v 
 Nalini (1999) 5 SCC 253) 

 (C) It is the unlawful agreement and not its 
 accomplishment, which is the gist or essence of the crime of 
 conspiracy. Offence of criminal conspiracy is complete even 
 though there is no agreement as to the means by which the 
 purpose is to be accomplished. It is the unlawful agreement, 
 which is the graham of the crime of conspiracy. (D) The unlawful agreement which amounts to a 
 conspiracy need not be formal or express, but may be 
 inherent in and inferred from the circumstances, especially St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 101 declarations, acts, and conduct of the conspirators. The 
 agreement need not be entered into by all the parties to it at 
 the same time, but may be reached by successive actions 
 evidencing their joining of the conspiracy. Since a 
 conspiracy is generally hatched in secrecy, it would quite 
 often happen that there is no evidence of any express 
 agreement between the conspirators to do cause to be done 
 the illegal act. For an offence under Section 120B, the 
 prosecution need not necessarily prove that the perpetrators 
 expressly agreed to do or cause to be done the illegal act; 
 the agreement may be proved by necessary implication. The 
 offence can be only proved largely from the inference drawn 
 from acts or illegal omission committed by the conspirators 
 in pursuance of a common design. The prosecution will also 
 more often rely upon circumstantial evidence. It is not 
 necessary to prove actual meeting of conspirators. Nor it is 
 necessary to prove the actual words of communication. The 
 evidence as to transmission of thoughts sharing the 
 unlawful design is sufficient. Surrounding circumstances 
 and antecedent and subsequent conduct of accused persons 
 constitute relevant material to prove charge of conspiracy. 
 ( Shivnarayan Laxminarayan Joshi v State of 
 Maharashtra AIR 1980 SC 439, Mohammad Usman 
 Mohammad Hussain Maniyar v State of Maharashtra AIR 1981 SC 1062 and Kehar Singh v State AIR 1988 SC 
 1883) 

 (E) A conspiracy is a continuing offence and continues to 
 subsist and committed wherever one of the conspirators 
 does an act or series of acts. So long as its performance 
 continues, it is a continuing offence till it is executed or 
 rescinded or frustrated by choice or necessity. A crime is 
 complete as soon as the agreement is made, but it is not a 
 thing of the moment. It does not end with the making of the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 102 agreement. It will continue so long as there are two or more 
 parties to it intending to carry into effect the design. Its 
 continuance is a threat to the society against which it was 
 aimed at and would be dealt with as soon as that 
 jurisdiction can properly claim the power to do so. The 
 conspiracy designed or agreed abroad will have the same 
 effect as in India, when part of the acts, pursuant to the 
 agreement are agreed to be finalized or done, attempted or 
 even frustrated and vice versa. (F) Section 10 of the Evidence Act introduces the doctrine 
 of agency and if the conditions laid down therein are 
 satisfied, the acts done by one are admissible against the 
 co­conspirators. In short, the section can be analysed as 
 follows: (1) There shall be a prima facie evidence affording 
 a reasonable ground for a Court to believe that two or more 
 persons are members of a conspiracy; (2) if the said 
 condition is fulfilled, anything said, done or written by any 
 one of them in reference to their common intention will be 
 evidence against the other; (3) anything said, done or 
 written by him should have been said, done or written by 
 him after the intention was formed by any one of them; (4) it 
 would also be relevant for the said purpose against another 
 who entered the conspiracy whether it was said, done or 
 written before he entered the conspiracy or after he left it; 
 and (5) it can only be used against a co­conspirator and not 
 in his favour. (See the decision of Supreme Court reported 
 as Sardar Sardul Singh v State of Maharashtra AIR 1957 
 SC 747). (105) As discussed in the foregoing paras, more often than not, the 

prosecution would adduce circumstantial evidence to prove the charge of 

conspiracy. The question which arises is that what should be the nature of St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 103 circumstantial evidence in a case of conspiracy to bring home the guilt of 

the accused persons. (106) Applying the settled principles of law to the facts of the present 

case it is writ large that the manner in which the whole incident had been 

executed, Robbery was the Sole Motive and the whole incident was 

premeditated and pre­planned and in order to execute the same the accused 

persons have hatched a criminal conspiracy which stands established from 

the Call Details Record. (107) The witnesses Amit (PW7) and Dharmender (PW10) were 

having a thaiya of ironing the clothes outside the house of the victim. In fact 

Dharmender (PW10) has also proved that one of the boy had brought a blue 

jeans pant (Ex.P­6) for ironing but since it was early morning and he told the 

said boy that it would take thirty minutes on which the said boy sat on his 

shop & started reading the newspaper. He has further proved that it was 

these boys who had committed the incident after which they ran away after 

leaving the jeans pant behind which he handed over to police. Puran Chand 

(PW3) has proved that the said pant (Ex.P­6) which was seized by the police 

in his presence which pant he has duly identified in the Court. Further, the 

Call Details Record of all the accused conclusively establish that two days 

prior to the incident i.e. on 14.12.2009 & 15.12.2009 the accused Harshit 

Prabhkar, Praveen Goel, Vikas Aggarwal and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed 

Offender) were present in the area covered by tower installed at Central 

Market Ashok Vihar where the property of victim is situated. When the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 104 incriminating material was put to the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C. they 

have not been able to satisfactorily explain their presence in the area. The 

presence of the accused Harshit Prabhakar, Praveen Goel, Vikas Aggarwal 

and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) on 15.12.2009 in the area of 

Central Market Ashok Vihar between 6:00 PM to 9:00 PM (as reflected from 

Call Details Records) stands established. It is a settled law that there cannot 

be a direct evidence to conspiracy. It stands established that Ms. Supriya 

(PW12) who was earlier working with ICICI Bank was in constant touch with 

the accused Jitesh Gogia and had initially disclosed to the police that she was 

also dealing with the Cash Counter and had innocently passed on the 

information regarding the victim Puran Chand jelweller to Jitesh Gogia 

though in the Court she has turned hostile on this aspect. 

(108) The record reveals that the accused Jitesh Gogia who is the 

cousin brother of Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) had been 

apprehended along with cash amount of Rs.1,00,000/­ (Rs. One lacs) and he 

had then disclosed that it was the same amount which was robbed from the 

victim and fell into his share for passing on the information to Deepak Gogia. 

Ms. Supriya (PW12) to my mind should have been made an accused but it is 

surprising that the Investigating Agency has instead for reasons best known to 

them chosen to make her a witness. Her conduct and demeanor while 

deposing before this Court is also dubious and as observed and noted by this 

Court has been constantly under the influence of the defence counsel 

(naturally so the accused Jitesh Gogia being her husband whom she had St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 105 married after the incident). Supriya has in her testimony has admitted having 

maintained a mobile No. 9911998444 and used to communicate to the 

accused Jitesh Gogia on his mobile No. 8010070058 and prior to that Jitesh 

Gogia was also maintaining a mobile No. 9911992444. Ms. Supriya (PW12) 

in her statement before this Court has concealed the date of her engagement 

to Jitesh Gogia. She has tried to justify the frequent calls between her and 

Jitesh Gogia on the ground that she at that time was engaged to accused 

Jitesh Gogia and her roka ceremony was performed but when asked to give 

the date of the said engagement or proof of said engagement, she is unable to 

produce the same (no documentary record of the roka ceremony has been 

placed before this Court). She has further falsely deposed that she had never 

dealt with the Cash Counters and when confronted with the reply of her 

office to the query put by the Investigating Officer under Section 91 Cr.P.C. 

which is Ex.PW12/PX­1 wherein her office had confirmed that she had dealt 

with Cash Counter, she desperately tried to explain by stating that off and on 

she dealt with the Cash Counter but with the very small cash payment. 

Apparently she is an interested witness being the wife of one of the accused. 

It is from her that the information regarding the victim and the fact that they 

were indulging into transaction of huge amount, was passed on to the other 

accused or else there was no other way how they could have an access to such 

details. Supriya was working in the ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar and admits that 

even a couple of days earlier to the date of incident i.e. on 14.12.2009 and 

15.12.2009 she had spoken to accused Jitesh Gogia on a number of occasions St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 106 which entries are reflected in the CDR Ex.PW12/PX­2 and has justified that 

Jitesh was an old friend and during the said period her roka ceremony was to 

be solemnized (which fact she has not been able to prove). She is an 

important link in the conspiracy who passed on the information to her friend 

Jitesh Gogia (accused before this Court) the brother of Deepak Gogia. The 

Call Detail Records of the accused Harshit Prabhakar, Praveen Goel and 

Deepak and the location chart of the mobile phones used by the said accused 

prove that the accused were very much present in the area even on 14.12.2009 

and 15.12.2009 i.e. a couple of days prior to the incident where ICICI Bank 

Ashok Vihar Branch where Supriya previously worked and where victims 

had their account and also where their house is situated where the incident 

took place. The pattern of calls details as deciphered from the data, the 

frequency of calls, the location of the user / accused at various times together 

in the area where the incident took place, leads me to conclude that the 

prosecution has been able to successfully establish a high degree of 

probability of existing of prior meeting of mind, premeditation leading to 

concerted action directed towards common object leading to commission of 

robbery on victims. (109) In view of the above I hereby hold that the prosecution has 

been able to successfully establish the motive of the crime was to commit 

robbery upon victims which was pursuant to a criminal conspiracy hatched 

by the accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel, Jitesh 

Gogia and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender). St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 107 Portrait of the suspect / accused Praveen prepared at the instance of eye 
witnesses: 50,000/­ was announced) yet he admits in the Court that during the initial 

investigations a portrait had been shown to him by the police after 

preparation. Hence, under the given circumstances the preparation of sketch 

which has been duly proved by SI Satya Prakash Prakash (PW13) at the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 108 instance of eye witnesses Jyoti and Amit through HC Mahender cannot be 

doubted and I may observe that the fact that portrait Ex.PW13/D matches 

with the accused Praveen Goel (whose presence is independently established 

at the spot of the incident from his Call Details Record) is an aspect which is 

incriminating qua him and is a strong pointer towards his guilt.

Huge recovery of cash of Rs.1,27,00,000/­ from the possession of the 
accused persons: The cash amount so recovered from the accused Vikas Aggarwal and Praveen 

Goel was in the from of bundles of currency notes in the denomination of 

500 and 1000 and the bundles were having slips with the stamp of Hari Ram 

Puran Chand and printed slip of ICICI Bank. The aforesaid amount was 

thereafter sealed and seized. In the meanwhile a call was received on the 

mobile phone of accused Vikas Aggarwal which call was heard by the police 

team on loudspeaker of the mobile and the caller was Harshit Prabhakar 

who was waiting near Liberty Cinema for the accused Vikas. Thereafter at 

the instance of accused Vikas Aggarwal the accused Harshit Prabhakar was 

apprehended near Liberty Cinema where he was standing near his Endeavor 

car bearing No. DL­4CAF­0113 and a blue coloured bag was recovered 

which was kept near the co­driver sear and on checking it was containing Rs.

25,00,000/­ (Rs. Twenty Five Lacs) and from the possession of the accused 

Harshit Prabhakar mobile phone No. 9873222031 (in the name of Mahesh 

Sharma) was recovered. All the three accused persons were thereafter 

arrested and pursuant to their disclosure statements at the instance of accused 

Vikas Aggarwal one black­red colour motorcycle bearing No. DL­45­ St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 110 AQ­0277 was seized which the accused Vikas Aggarwal got recovered from 

C­5/6, Mahalaxmi Society, Rama Vihar which was used in the robbery. 

Further, at the instance of all the three accused one blue­black coloured 

Discover motorcycle bearing No. DL­45­BD­5243 was got recovered by 

them from outside the house of Deepak Gogia at D­13, Rama Vihar, Delhi. 

On the next date i.e. 4.1.2010 on the basis of secret information the accused 

Jitesh Gogia @ Jitesh was apprehended near Shastri Nagar Metro Station 

from whose possession Rs.1,00,000/­ were recovered. The accused Jitesh 

Gogia disclosed that he had given information to his brother Deepak Gogia 

about a jeweller in Ashok Vihar and Deepak Gogia promised him to give Rs.

5,00,000/­ for this information and he had already received Rs.1,50,000/­.

(112) The Ld. Defence Counsels for the accused persons have 

vehemently argued that the disclosure statement of the accused are 

inadmissible in evidence being hit by the provisions of Section 27 of 

Evidence Act. On the other hand the Ld. Addl. PP for the State has argued 

that the disclosure statements of the accused are admissible in evidence since 

it led to discovery of relevant fact. (113) Before analyzing the evidence on merits, it is necessary to 

observe that as per the provisions of Section 27 of Evidence Act, which is in 

the nature of a proviso to Section 26 of the Act, to the extent it is relevant, 

when any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of information 

received from a person accused of any offence, in the custody of a police 

officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a confession St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 111 or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be 

proved. Thus the requirement of law is that before the fact discovered 

in consequence of an information received from an accused is allowed to be 

proved, he (accused) needs to be in the custody of a police officer. 

(114) Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act explains the meaning of 

the word Fact. It provides that a fact means and includes: (115) It further provides five illustrations as to what would constitute 

a fact which are as under: (118) After considering the settled principles the Hon'ble Apex Court 

observed as under: would be inadmissible as they would amount to an 
 admission by the accused that he was in possession. There are in our opinion two answers to this argument. In the first place S. 27 itself says that where the 
 statement distinctly relates to the discovery it will be 
 admissible whether it amounts to a confession or not. In 
 the second place, these words by themselves though they 
 may show possession of the appellant would not prove 
 the offence, for after the articles have been recovered the 
 prosecution has still to show that the articles recovered 
 are connected with the crime, i.e., in this case, the 
 prosecution will have to show that they are stolen 
 property. We are, therefore, of opinion that the entire 
 statement of the appellant (as well as of the other 
 accused who stated that he had given the ornament to 
 Bada Sab and would have it recovered from him) would 
 be admissible in evidence and the Sessions Judge was 
 wrong in ruling out part of it. Therefore, as relevant and 
 admissible evidence was ruled out by the Sessions Judge, 
 this is a fit case where the High Court would be entitled to 
 set aside the finding of acquittal in revision though it is 
 unfortunate that the High Court did not confine itself only 
 to this point and went on to make rather strong remarks 
 about other parts of the evidence. (119) Later in the year 1969 the Three Judges Bench of the Hon'ble 

Supreme Court has in the case of Zaffar Hussain Dastagir Vs. State of 

Maharastra reported in 1969 (2) SCC 872 while dealing with the 

applicability of the provisions of Section 27 of the Indian Evident Act relied St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 116 upon the case of K. Chinnaswamy Reddy Vs. State of A.P. observed as 

under: (121) In the recent past the Hon'ble Supreme Court has in the case of State (NCT of Delhi) Vs. Navjot Sandhu with Shaukat Hussain Guru Vs. 

State (NCT of Delhi ) reported in AIR 2005 SC 3820 reinforced the above 

view when it observed that "discovery of fact" should be read with the 

definition of "fact" as contained in Section 3 of the Evidence Act which 

defines the "fact" as meaning and including anything, state of things or 

relation of things, capable of being perceived by the senses and also includes 

any mental condition of which any person is conscious (emphasis supplied). 

It was held that the provisions of Section 27 would apply whenever there is 

discovery which discovery amounts to be confirmatory in character 

guaranteeing the truth of the information given to which facts the police 

officer had no access earlier which also includes recovery of material object. 

The Hon'ble Court further observed that so much of the information as 

relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered is admissible. 

(122) Applying the settled principles of law to the facts of the present 

case, it is evident that the fact that more than four persons were involved in 

the conspiracy to commit robbery was in the knowledge of the accused and St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 118 none else. I may further observe that Firstly neither the make nor the 

number of the motorcycles used in the armed robbery, were in the knowledge 

of the Investigating Agency except for the fact that one of the motorcycle was 

of red colour and another was of black and according to the eye witnesses 

both had no number plates. It was pursuant to the disclosure statement of the 

accused that first the accused Vikas Aggarwal got the recovery of the 

motorcycle of Red Colour bearing No. DL­45­AQ­0277 affected from 

C­5/6, Mahalaxmi Society, Rama Vihar and thereafter the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar, Praveen Goel and Vikas Aggarwal led them to the house of 

Deepak Gogia at D­13, Rama Vihar, Delhi from where a blue­black 

coloured Discover motorcycle bearing No. DL­45­BD­5243 was recovered. 

(123) Secondly at the time of the arrest of the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar, Praveen Goel and Vikas Aggarwal they were found to be in 

possession of currency notes totalling Rs.1,25,00,000/­ (Rs. One Crore 

Twenty Five lacs) which were bearing the stamp of Hari Ram Puran Chand 

on the slips of ICICI Bank (i.e. ribbon slips normally kept in the bank for 

purposes of advertisement which customers sometimes use for bundling the 

currency notes) and were identified by the complainant as the looted amount. 

The manner in which the looted amount was distributed i.e. how much 

amount went to share of which accused was not in the knowledge of the 

police. This fact for the first time came to the knowledge of the police only 

when it was so disclosed to the police and pursuant to the same (i.e. 

disclosure statement) the accused Harshit Prabhakar got recovered Rs. One St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 119 lacs from his house on 12.1.2010 (seizure memo of which also bears the 

signatures of his maternal uncle / mama namely Harish who has admitted his 

signatures on the said memo though has turned hostile on recovery and 

understandably so on account of the relationship). The said currency notes 

which were bundled with the advertising ribbon material of ICICI bank with 

the stamp of Hari Ram Puran Chand affixed on the back side, have been duly 

identified by the victim. The amount of recovery of Rs.One crore twenty 

seven lacs is huge and it is difficult to believe that the same could not have 

been planted on the accused. The onus of justifying and explaining the 

possession of this huge amount so recovered from their possession shifted on 

the accused and I may observe that not even a single accused had placed on 

record any documentary proof in the form of Bank Account etc. to explain 

the same. (124) Thirdly the fact that after the incident of robbery all the four 

accused i.e. Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel, Harshit Prabhakar and Deepak 

Gogia then went to the house of Deepak Gogia where they distributed the 

looted amount between themselves and also separately kept share of Jitesh 

(cousin of Deepak) who had furnished them the information regarding the 

victims, was not within the knowledge of the police and it is only on their 

disclosure that this fact came to be discovered. This is admissible in evidence 

because the Call Detail Records of all the accused match and tally with this 

information so disclosed by the accused to the police (when the accused 

Jitesh Gogia was arrested he was found in possession of Rs. One lacs and he St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 120 had explained that for giving the information to Deepak Gogia it was agreed 

that he would be paid Rs.5 lacs of which Rs.1,50,000/­ were already paid to 

him out of which he had already spent Rs.50,000/­ and the remaining amount 

was yet to be paid). The accused Jitesh has not been able to successfully 

explain the possession of the amount found in his possession. I hereby hold 

that this disclosure of fact regarding involvement of Jitesh was not within the 

knowledge of police and came to be known only on the basis of disclosure of 

accused leading to recovery of part of the robbed amount from his 

possession. His Call Detail records independently connect him with accused 

Harshit Prabhakar and Deepak with whom he was maintaining regular 

contacts and also with Supriya an employee of ICICI Bank, Ashok Vihar 

where Deepak Gupta had his account. This is compatible to their locations at 

various points of time i.e. after the incident or robbery, followed by 

distribution of cash at Rama Vihar in the house of Deepak Gogia and then 

return of the accused to their respective houses and explains the route taken 

by them. This is disclosure of fact as contemplated under Section 27 of 

Evidence Act and is not hit by the same. (125) Fourthly the route taken by the accused after committing the 

robbery was not within the knowledge of the police and came to be known 

only when disclosed by accused to the police and is admissible because it 

tallies with the Call Detail Records of the mobile phones used by the accused 

[in this regard reference is being made to the case of State (NCT of Delhi) 

Vs. Navjot Sandhu (Supra )]. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 121 (126) Lastly Deepak Gupta (PW5) has duly proved that they are 

maintaining two bank accounts one at ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar Branch and 

another at HDFC Bank Patel Nagar. He has proved that they used to 

purchase gold from MMTC through CCOD account from Union Bank of 

India, Sadar Bazar Branch and had a maximum limit of Rs.3.25 crores. He 

has also proved having handed over the relevant documents to the Police i.e. 

sales tax return and statements of account of both ICICI Bank and HDFC 

Bank to show the source of the robbed amount. On the one hand the accused 

have not been able to explain the source of cash so recovered from their 

possession whereas on the other hand the complainant has satisfactorily 

explained the same. Therefore, I hold that the source of robbed amount from 

the complainant / victim stands established. The victim Puran Chand Gupta 

has identified the currency notes recovered from the possession of the 

accused persons i.e. Rs.26 lacs from the accused Harshit Prabhakar; Rs.70 

lacs from the accused Vikas Aggarwal; Rs.30 lacs from the accused Praveen 

Goel and Rs. One Lacs from the accused Jitesh Gogia. (127) Therefore, I hereby hold that the fact that the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal and Praveen Goel got recovered motorcycles 

bearing No. DL­45­AQ­0277 and No. DL­45­BD­5243 which were used in 

the offence of robbery, also disclosed to the police regarding the source of 

information i.e. from the co­accused Jitesh the brother of Proclaimed 

Offender Deepak who provided the details of the information regarding the 

victims. The arrest of the accused Jitesh later confirmed this information so St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 122 given by the accused in their disclosure statement and it is Jitesh who then 

disclosed how he had received this information from his friend Supriya 

(whom he married in the year 2011 after the incident) who was employed in 

ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar Branch where the victims had their bank account. 

It is this which is a strong pointer towards their guilt and further recovery of 

the huge amount of robbed money (totaling Rs. One crore twenty six lacs) 

from the possession of the accused, incriminates all the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and Jitesh Gogia and connects 

them with the offence of conspiracy and also the robbery (Section 392 r/w 

120­B Indian Penal Code ). Further, having been found in possession of the 

robbed amount all the accused are also held guilty of the offence under Section 411 Indian Penal Code. Discrepancies & contradictions / Defence of the accused: (129) In support of their claims the accused have examined four 

witnesses. Shiv Kumar Goel (DW1) who is the father of he accused Harshi 

Prabhakar; Smt. Rozy Thakur (DW3) is the neighbour of accused Vikas 

Aggarwal and Pradeep Goswami (PW4) is the neighbour of the accused 

Harshit Prabhakar who have deposed that the accused Harshit Prabhakar and 

Vikas Aggarwal had been lifted from their house and falsely implicated in the 

present case. The accused Praveen Goel has examined himself as DW3 has 

placed on record his application under RTI in respect of call made at 100 

number on 03.01.2010 from mobile No. 9212227092 which reply of the 

Addl. DCP is Ex.DW2/A. 

(130) I have considered the submissions made before me. Before 

proceeding to come to the merits of the case, it is necessary to briefly discuss 

the guiding principles of law as laid down by the various Courts. In the case 

of State of H.P. v. Lekhraj and another reported in JT 1999 (9) SC 43 it was 

observed by the Supreme Court of India as that:­ 

 "In the depositions of witnesses there are always normal 
 discrepancy, however, honest and truthful they may be. 
 Such discrepancies are due to normal errors of 
 observation, normal errors of memory due to lapse of 
 time, due to mental disposition such as shock and horror at 
 the time of occurrence, and the like......... .......The traditional dogmatic hyper technical approach 
 has to be replaced by rational, realistic and genuine 
 approach for administering justice in a criminal trial." St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 125 (131) Further, in the case of Surender Singh v. State of Haryana reported in JT 2006 (1) SC 645, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has 

observed as under :­

 "It is well­established principle of law that every 
 discrepancy in the witness statement cannot be treated as a 
 fatal to the prosecution case. The discrepancy, which does 
 not affect the prosecution case materially, does not create 
 infirmity." (132) As far as minor inconsistencies are concerned in the statement 

of the witnesses it is held in Ousu Varghese v. State of Kerala , reported in 

(1974) 3 SCC 767 that minor variations in the accounts of the witnesses are 

often the hallmark of the truth of their testimony. In the case of Jagdish v. 

State of Madhya Pradesh , reported in AIR 1981 SC 1167, the Supreme Court 

has held that When the discrepancies are comparatively of minor character 

and did not go to the root of the prosecution story, they need not be given 

undue importance. Mere congruity or consistency is not the sole test of 

truth in the depositions. Also in the case of State of Rajasthan Vs. Kalki , 

reported in (1981) 2 SCC 752 it has been held that in the depositions of 

witnesses there are always normal discrepancy, however, honest and truthful 

they may be. Such discrepancies are due to normal errors of observation, 

normal errors of memory due to lapse of time, due to mental disposition 

such as shock and horror at the time of occurrence, and the like. Material 

discrepancies are those which are not normal, and not expected of a normal 

person. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 126 (133) Even otherwise, when an eye witness is examined at length it is 

quite possible for him to make some discrepancies. No true witness can 

possibly escape from making some discrepant details. Perhaps an untrue 

witness who is well tutored can successfully made his testimony totally non­

discrepant. Courts have to bear in mind that it is only when discrepancies in 

evidence of witness are so incompatible with the credibility of his version 

that the Court is justified in jettisoning his evidence. Too serious a view to 

be adopted on mere variations falling in the narration of incident (either as 

between the evidence of two witnesses or as between two statements of the 

same witness) is an unrealistic approach for judicial scrutiny.

(134) The Supreme Court had an opportunity to discuss as to why 

discrepancies arise in the statements of witnesses. In the judgment of Bharwada Boginbhai Hijri Bhai Vs. State of Gujarat , reported in 1983 

(CRI) GJX 0252 SC: AIR 1983 SC 7453 (1), the Supreme Court pointed out 

the following reasons as to why the discrepancies, contradictions and 

improvements occur in the testimonies of the witnesses. (a) By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess 
 a photographic memory and to recall the details of an 
 incident. It is not as if a video tape is replayed on the 
 mental screen. (b) Ordinarily it so happens that a witness is overtaken 
 by events. The witness could not have anticipated the 
 occurrence which so often has an element of surprise. The 
 mental faculties therefore cannot be expected to be attuned 
 to absorb the details. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 127 (c) The powers of observation differ from person to 
 person. What one may notice, another may not. An object 
 or movement might emboss its image on one person's mind, 
 whereas it might go unnoticed on the part of another. (d) By and large people cannot accurately recall a 
 conversation and reproduce the very words used by them or 
 heard by them. They can only recall the main purport of the 
 conversation. It is unrealistic to expect a witness to be a 
 human tape recorder. (e) In regard to exact time of an incident, or the time 
 duration of an occurrence, usually people make their 
 estimates by guess work on the spur of the moment at the 
 time of interrogation. And one cannot expect people to 
 make very precise or reliable estimates in such matters. 
 Again, it depends on the time sense of individuals which 
 varies from person to person. (f) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall 
 accurately the sequence of events which take place in rapid 
 succession or in a short time span. A witness is liable to get 
 confused, or mixed up when interrogated lateron. (g) A witness, though wholly truthful, is liable to be 
 overawed by the court atmosphere and the piercing cross­
 examination made by counsel and out of nervousness mix 
 up facts, get confused regarding sequence of events, of fill 
 up details from imagination on the spur of the moment. The 
 subconscious mind of the witness sometimes so operates on 
 account of the fear of looking foolish or being disbelieved 
 through the witness is giving a truthful and honest account 
 of the occurrence witnessed by him perhaps it is a sort of 
 psychological defence mechanism activated on the moment. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 128 (135) It should be remembered that human behaviour varies from 

person to person and different people react and behaved differently in a 

different situation. How person can behave in a particular situation cannot be 

predicted. (Ref.: State of UP Vs. Devender Singh reported in AIR 2009 SC 

3690). (136) Applying the settled principles of law to the facts and 

circumstances of the present case, Firstly I may mention that in so far as the 

eye witnesses of the prosecution having turned hostile is concerned, the 

circumstances brought on record reflect that the possibility of this being so 

on account of fear of the accused or even because they have been won over 

cannot be ruled out. Either ways it will not make much difference to the 

prosecution case. The aspect that the assailants were in helmets had been 

disclosed by the said witnesses for the first time in the Court. Puran Chand 

(PW3) has admitted that even earlier his statement has been recorded on large 

number of occasions and he had stated whatever had been brought to his 

notice. However, in none of the statement the fact regarding the assailants 

wearing helmets have not been mentioned. The complainant and his 

daughter­in­law Jyoti are educated persons belonging to affluent section of 

the society and it is impossible that they would have not noticed this fact in 

their statements recorded by the police or pointed out the same to the police. 

It is also evident from the record that portrait of the suspect has been duly 

prepared at the instance of Jyoti, Dharmender and Amit whereas in the Court 

all the said witnesses have denied the said fact. It is writ large that the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 129 portrait Ex.PW13/D is matching accurately with the accused Praveen Goel 

which portrait has been duly proved by SI Satya Prakash (PW13)). In his 

testimony Puran Chand (PW3) has denied that the sketch / portrait was 

prepared at his instance though he admits that the portrait had been shown to 

him after preparation. This being so, it stands established that in fact the 

portrait of one of the suspects was prepared and shown to the complainant on 

the basis of which even an award of Rs.50,000/­ was being announced and 

this could not have been done unless the victims and eye witnesses 

themselves got the same prepared. Incidentally the portrait of the suspect 

accurately matches with the accused Praveen from whom a huge recovery of 

Rs.30 lacs was effected which currency notes were having slips of ICICI 

bank. I have gone through the said slips which are ribbon slips of the bank 

i.e. an advertisement material kept on the counters of the bank are easily 

accessible and available in the bank and are normally picked up by 

customers. In fact the victims had used these slips invertedly (on the blank 

side) for making the bundles of the currency notes on which they had put the 

stamps of their firm i.e. Hari Ram Puran Chand which they normally did as a 

matter of practice. (137) This Court cannot overlook the possibility that the accused are 

an organized gang who had committed an armed robbery though it should 

have been dacoity. However, legally and technically since Jitesh Gogia was 

not present at the spot hence it is taken as robbery and is not covered under 

dacoity. This Court also cannot ignore this fact that during the trial one of St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 130 the accused i.e. Jitesh Gogia was on bail and his wife Ms. Supriya (PW12) 

who to my mind should have been made an accused rather than a witness, 

were free and one of the other accused Deepak Gogia the main brain behind 

the entire operation is still at large being declared a Proclaimed Offender. 

In this background the possibility of the victims and eye witnesses being won 

over by the accused or not having identified the accused on account of dear 

cannot be ruled out. Even otherwise, the presence of the accused persons 

being otherwise established from the electronic evidence and other evidence 

on record, the fact that the eye witnesses have turned hostile on their identity 

will not be fatal to the case of the prosecution case. (138) I may further observe that Harish (PW11) is related to the 

accused Harshit Prabhakar being his maternal uncle (mama) and is an 

interested witnesses and has turned hostile as such only to secure benefit to 

his nephew Harshit Prabhakar who is facing trial before this Court. In so far 

as Ms. Supriya (PW12) is concerned she has arrayed as a prosecution witness 

though she should have been implicated as an accused being the main person 

who was the first person in the chain have passed on and leaked the 

information regard is Deepak Gupta son of the complainant Puran Chand 

Gupta (who at that time was in Ahmedabad for official work) being the 

premium customer of the ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar where she was employed 

and maintaining a regular account where huge money transactions were 

being conducted regularly, to accused Jitesh Gogia who in turn passed on this 

information to his cousin Deepak Gogia for a consideration. During the trial St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 131 of the case the demeanor of this witness Supriya has also been noted by this 

Court when she was present in the company of and also communicating with 

the Defence Counsels. Hence, being an interested witnesses naturally she has 

not supported the case of the prosecution. As already observed she has not 

been able to tell the Court the date of her engagement or roka ceremony and 

it is impossible that she would have forgotten the same or that she would have 

no documentary record to prove the same. It is writ large that she has done 

so only to justify the frequent calls made between her and Jitesh Gogia 

during the time when the incident took place. I may observe that it is 

primary requirement of all Banking Institution is maintenance of strict 

secrecy regarding the details of customers and their accounts. In fact any 

employee violating the same makes an employee not only for departmental 

action but also for criminal action. The call details record placed before this 

Court prove that she was in constant touch with accused Jitesh Gogia 

throughout the period when the incident took place. Further, though in her 

testimony before the Court she has denied having stated to the police in her 

earlier statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that she had innocently passed on 

the information to Jitesh Gogia and the accused who used to visit the bank 

which probably was the reason why she was cited as prosecution witness 

rather than being made an accused, yet it is writ large that there was no other 

way the personal information of the victims could have reached the accused. 

It is also material that despite the accused Jitesh Gogia being involved in the 

present case, she married him after about one and a half years and this St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 132 explains why she had turned hostile in the Court. Further, Ms. Supriya 

(PW12) has stated before this Court that she had never been dealing with the 

cash counter which is contrary to the response / reply given by her office to 

the notice of the Investigating Officer under Section 91 Cr.P.C. Despite being 

confronted with the reply given by her office pursuant to the notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C. which reply is Ex.PW12/PX1 she again denied having 

worked at cash counters which was found contrary to her office confirming 

that during the period she had been working on the cash counter. The 

conduct of Ms. Supriya (PW12) is highly dubious and leads to irresistible 

conclusion that she was fully aware of what was happening and had passed 

on the information to Jitesh Gogia. Whether it was done innocently or 

deliberately now looses its consequence because the prosecution has chosen 

to cite her as their own witness but she cannot escape the clutches of law for 

having made a false statement on oath to the extent that she had never 

handled the cash counter which lie has been nailed from the response of her 

office which is Ex.PW12/PX1 and the explanation given by her that she had 

handled small cash amount, does not cut much ice being in the nature of a 

over­up. (139) Secondly in so far as the discrepancies in the testimonies of 

Puran Chand Gupta, Jyoti, Dharmender and Amit are concerned, it is evident 

that the entire offence of armed robbery took place in quick succession which 

the victims could not have contemplated and there was an element of surprise 

which overtook everyone. Hence what could have been observed by Puran St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 133 Chand Gupta, perhaps went unnoticed by Jyoti, Dharmender and Amit and 

similarly what was probably noticed by Jyoti or Dharmemder or Amit could 

have not been noticed by Puran Chand Gupta. When the offence has been 

committed in quick succession the witness could not have anticipated the 

occurrence which so often has an element of surprise and the mental faculties 

therefore cannot be expected to be attuned to absorb the details. The powers 

of observation differ from person to person. What one may notice, another 

may not. An object or movement might emboss its image on one person's 

mind, whereas it might go unnoticed on the part of another. It is evident that 

it is only Puran Chand Gupta has claimed that initially there were three 

persons whereas all other eye witnesses claimed that there were four persons. 

Whether there were three persons or more than three or four persons would 

again loose its significance in view of the statements made by other witnesses 

after the incident and also in view of the fact that the electronic evidence in 

the form of Call Detail Records of the accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas 

Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) show that 

they were together at the same place and there is other circumstantial evident 

to connect them including the recovery of motorcycles used in the 

commission of the offence which were recovered at the instance of the 

accused and the jeans pant which the accused had given to Dharmender for 

ironing and the recovery of currency notes from their possession much later 

which connect them to the offence. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 134 (140) Thirdly in so far as the defence of accused that they have been 

lifted by the police and taken to the Police Station after which they were later 

on implicated is concerned and the father of accused Praveen Goel having 

deposed to the effect that a call at 100 number was made at 1:30 PM which 

was made by his nephew Gaurav made from his mobile number 9212227092 

is concerned, I may mention that it has come on record that the police party 

had kept a surveillance on the suspects and had following the accused Vikas 

Aggarwal after which he had lead to the accused Praveen Goel. It has come 

on record in the cross­examination of the police witnesses that due to 

shortage of time the documents of arrest were formally prepared later. It is 

also a matter of common knowledge that at the time of apprehension and 

arrest of the accused persons normally the documents of arrest are prepared 

much later and in any case as per the existing statutory law of the land 

accused can always be detained for interrogation and is required to be 

produced before the Ld. MM within 24 hours. Assuming that the accused 

Praveen Goel was lifted at 1:00 PM and he was shown to have been arrested 

at 3:25 PM, it will not make much difference whether the formal arrest was at 

1­1:30 PM or after a couple of hours as claimed by the accused. This will 

not be an illegality but only a procedural irregularity for which benefit cannot 

be given to the accused (Ref.: Rabinder Kumar Pal @ Dara Singh Vs. 

Republic of India reported in AIR 2011 SC 1436). (141) Lastly I may further observe that making of PCR call has been 

duly proved by the accused Praveen Goel but the contents of the said call has St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 135 not been proved. The RTI reply Ex.DW2/A only proves the call but not the 

information so given. As already observed the possibility that the documents 

relating to arrest of the accused were prepared after the arrest of all the 

accused persons cannot be ruled out. Even otherwise, Shiv Kumar (DW1) 

has only deposed to the extent that at 12:45 PM some persons had come and 

lifted his son on which his nephew Gaurav made a telephone call to the 

police from his mobile number 9212227092 at 100 number at about 1:30 PM. 

This person / nephew of Shiv Kumar i.e. Gaurav has not come to the Court to 

prove the same. Further, the PCR Form containing the information given has 

not been proved nor the witness from PCR to whom information was given, 

has been examined. Simply stating that a call had been made at 1:30 PM at 

100 number would not assist the accused in any manner. There is no reason 

to disbelieve the testimonies of the police officers. Here, I may observe that 

the Hon'ble Supreme Court has time and again frowned upon the idea of 

disbelieving the police witnesses and in this regard the Hon'ble Supreme 

Court has observed that no infirmity attaches to the testimony of police 

officials merely because they belong to the police force (Ref.: Tahir vs. State , 

(1996) 3 SCC 338), The presumption that a person acts honestly and legally 

applies as much in favour of police officers as of others. It is not proper and 

permissible to doubt the evidence of police officers. Judicial approach must 

not be to distrust and suspect their evidence on oath without good and 

sufficient ground thereof. (Ref.: Aner Raja Khima Vs. The State of 

Saurashtra , AIR 1956 SC 217). The aforesaid two authorities were also St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 136 relied upon by Hon'ble High Court in Aslam & Ors (Mohd.) Vs. State , 

reported in 2010 III AD (Delhi) 133. The testimonies of the police witnesses 

cannot be rejected merely because they happen to be police officers. Rather, 

on the contrary the father of the accused is an interested witness whose aim is 

to save his son involved in a heinous offence from penal consequences and 

hence his testimony is required to read with due caution. The police officers 

have no animosity with any of the accused so as to falsely implicate them in 

this case. In so far as the testimonies of Smt. Rozy Thakur (DW3) and 

Pradeep Goswami (DW4) are concerned they are interested witnesses who 

have never complained to any senior police officer or any authority that the 

accused have been lifted by the police. Rather, Pradeep Goswami (DW4) has 

given a wrong date and claimed that the accused Harshit Prabhakar was lifted 

from his house on 3.12.2009 which is even before the incident. This being so 

I hereby hold that the testimonies of the witnesses examined by the accused 

does not appear to be credible and cannot be relied upon.

(142) Further, as regards the contradictions in the timings, presence 

of a particular police official at a particular time, etc., I am of the considered 

that the same are too immaterial and irrelevant as it is the evidence of the 

prosecution witnesses regarding the commission of the offence by the accused 

which is more important than the investigation conducted in the present case. 

Even otherwise, the alleged contradictions are not fatal to the prosecution case 

in any manner as the same relate to the investigation. All the discrepancies in 

the timings as pointed out by the counsels for the accused are too immaterial St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 137 which can be ignored attributing the same to the lapse of time as the material 

facts have been substantially proved by the prosecution. I do not find any 

force in the submission of the counsels for throwing out the case of the 

prosecution merely on the ground of certain discrepancies / contradictions in 

the deposition of various prosecution witnesses. I am of the considered view 

that such discrepancies are bound to occur in the deposition of various 

witnesses being usual and natural and even otherwise as they are found to be 

formal in nature without striking at the root of the matter and the same cannot 

be treated as fatal for the prosecution. FINAL CONCLUSIONS: (144) Applying the above principles of law to the present case it is 

evident that the investigation conducted including the documents prepared in 

the present case have been substantially proved by the police witnesses 

including the first and the second investigating officers. On the basis of the 

evidence on record the following facts stand established: ➢ That on 16.12.2009 in the morning at about 9:00 AM the 

 complainant Puran Chand prepared the packets of currency notes 

 totalling Rs.1,55,00,000/­ (Rs. One Crore Fifty Five Lacs) in the 

 denomination of 500 and 1000 at his house for depositing the same 

 in the bank which packets were put into two bags i.e. one of black 

 colour and which had a design like check. ➢ That on 16.12.2009 since Deepak was away to Ahmedabad for 

 official work, the daughter in law of the complainant namely Jyoti 

 Gupta had to drive the complainant to the bank. ➢ That at about 9:20 AM while the complainant Puran Chand and his 

 daughter in law Jyoti were putting the bags in the dickey of their 

 Maruti Zen Estilo bearing no. DL­8CR­1678 one person pushed 

 him from the shoulder as a result of which he move ahead and the 

 said boy lifted the said bag and ran away on the black motorcycle 

 which was already in a starting position while one person was in 

 driving position. ➢ That in the meanwhile another motorcycle of red colour came on 

 which two persons were sitting and the pillion rider of came down 

 and showed a pistol to the victims Puran Chand and Jyoti after 

 which he lifted another bag containing the currency notes and ran St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 140 away on the said motorcycle. ➢ That both the motorcycles did not have a number plate.

 ➢ That a PCR call was made at 100 number pursuant to which the 

 police reached the spot and local police was informed. 

 ➢ That the complainant / victim informed the police that both 

 motorcycles were not having any number plate and all the four 

 assailants were of the age of 20 to 25 years with a height between 

 5­6 feet. ➢ That on the basis of the complaint of Puran Chand Gupta the 

 present FIR was got registered and during investigations, 

 statements of Smt. Jyoti, Dharmender Kumar and Amit Kumar 

 were recorded. ➢ That it was confirmed that two persons had come on bike at around 

 8:40 AM near the house of the complainant and got down at 

 Washer­Man / press­wala Dharmender's ironing table and one of 

 them gave a jeans pant to Dharmender for ironing and pretended to 

 wait at his shop while keeping a watch at the house of the victim. 

 ➢ That during investigations the secret informer gave the number of 

 mobile phones of suspected persons pursuant to which the call 

 details of mobile No. 9716451108, 9999337000, 9873222031 and 

 9873670551 were collected and kept on surveillance. ➢ That on verification the Investigating Agency came to know about 

 the ownership of these mobile phones and a call was made on St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 141 mobile phone number 9716451108 and inquiries were made on 

 which the user told his name as Parveen Goel, R/o WZ­30, Hari 

 Singh Park, Multan Nagar, Delhi. ➢ That on 02.01.2010 the secret informer informed the Investigating 

 Officer that one of the suspect was coming to Deep Hyundai, 

 Ashok Vihar Industrial Area for service of his i­10 car bearing 

 number DL4C AJ 6389 pursuant to which inquires were made 

 from Deep Hyundai, Ashok Vihar Industrial Area where it was 

 came to be known that the said car was being used by Vishal 

 Aggarwal who was using mobile number bearing no. 9873670551. 

 ➢ That on the same day i.e. 2.10.2010 at about 5.00 PM one person 

 came there to receive the aforesaid car after which they followed 

 him and finally the car parked at C­5/6, Mahalaxmi Society, Rama 

 Vihar, Delhi. ➢ That police teams were deployed at Multan Nagar as well as at 

 Mahalaxmi Society of Rama Vihar for keeping a watch on the 

 suspects. ➢ That on 3.10.2010 two police teams were constituted one was 

 headed by SI Rajeev Shah who deployed his staff at Gate No.5, 

 Multan Nagar, Hari Singh Park and another team headed by SI 

 Rajeev Ranjan who along with his team was following the i­10 

 vehicle of white color bearing No. DL­4CAJ­6389 which was 

 moving towards Multan Nagar side. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 142 ➢ That at around 3:00 PM the said white color i­10 car bearing the 

 same number came to gate No.5 Multan Nagar and took a left turn 

 on the service road on which SI Rajeev Shah blocked the way of 

 i­10 car by putting his car in front of it and HC Naresh who was 

 following the said car put his car behind the i­10 car. ➢ That the boy who was driving the i­10 car was apprehended and in 

 the meantime SI Rajiv Ranjan also reached there. ➢ That the said boy disclosed his name as Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky 

 and also disclosed about his involvement as well as the involvement 

 of other accused Praveen Goel, Harshit Prabhakar, Jitesh Gogia 

 and Deepak Gogia (proclaimed offender) in the robbery.

 ➢ That the accused Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky informed them that he 

 tried to run away with the money outside Delhi and his associate 

 Deepak Gogia had already gone to Bombay whereas Parveen 

 would arrive shortly with the money. ➢ That subsequently accused Vikas Aggarwal was arrested and 

 thereafter the i­10 car bearing No. DL­4CAJ­6389 was searched 

 which found to contain one black color bag in the dickey which 

 was containing bundles of currency notes totaling Rs.70,00,000/­ 

 (Seventy Lacs) which the accused disclosed as the looted amount 

 from the Ashok Vihar robbery and containing his share as well as 

 that of Deepak Gogia. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 143 ➢ That each packet of currency note was bundled with an advertising 

 ribbon of ICICI and on the back side of the same stamp of Hari 

 Ram Puran Chand was affixed. ➢ That the said currency notes were taken into possession and from 

 the personal search of accused Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky one 

 mobile phone make SPICE M4580 with dual SIM bearing No. 

 9873670551 & 931171120 having IMEI No. 863263008371460 

 and IMEI No. 86326300837478 was recovered which was taken 

 into possession. ➢ That accused Vikas Aggarwal was asked to sat in the said i­10 car 

 and SI Rajeev Ranjan, HC Naresh and Ct. Kulbhushan also sat in 

 the same whereas SI Rajiv Shah along with his members of police 

 party reached at Gate No.5 where they took their position.

 ➢ That after sometime a boy of thin stature was noticed coming on 

 foot with a bag in his hand from the gate No.5 on which he was 

 covered while he was going towards the i­10 car. ➢ That the said boy was apprehended and he disclosed his name as 

 Praveen Goel and also confessed about the robbery at Ashok 

 Vihar. ➢ That the bag of accused Praveen Goel was searched and it was 

 found to contain Rs.30,00,000/­ (Rs. Thirty lacs) and each packet 

 of currency note was bundled with an advertising ribbon of ICICI 

 and on the back side of the same stamp of Hari Ram Puran Chand St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 144 was affixed. ➢ That from the personal search of accused Praveen Goel a mobile 

 phone make NOKIA E­90 bearing No. 9716451108 and IMEI No. 

 353660010946147 was recovered which was taken into possession.

 ➢ That in the meantime on the mobile phone of Vikas Aggarwal one 

 call was received which was heard by the police on loudspeaker 

 and the caller disclosed his name as Harshit Prabhakar who was 

 waiting for Vikas Aggarwal at Liberty Cinema. ➢ That thereafter at the instance of accused Vikas Aggarwal, the 

 accused Harshit Prabhakar was located at Liberty Cinema and 

 was apprehended while he was standing near his ford Endeavor car 

 bearing No. DL­4C­AF­0113. ➢ That the said car was checked and it found to contain one blue 

 color bag lying under the dash board near the adjacent seat of the 

 driving seat and it found to contain packets of currency notes 

 totalling Rs.25,00,000/­ (Twenty Five lacs) and each packet was 

 having an advertising ribbon material of ICICI Bank with stamp of 

 Hari Ram Puran Chand proprietor on the back side which currency 

 notes were thereafter seized. ➢ That from the personal search of the accused Harshit Prabhakar 

 one mobile make NOKIA having number 9873222031 bearing 

 IMEI No. 358249039815800 was recovered which was also taken 

 into possession. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 145 ➢ That all the three accused persons were thoroughly interrogated 

 and they made their disclosure statements regarding the incident 

 and about the involvement of the co­accused persons Deepak 

 Gogia and his cousin Jitesh Gogia through whom they received 

 information about the complainant and his bank account. 

 ➢ That in pursuance of his disclosure statement the accused Vikas led 

 the police to his house No. C­5/6, Mahalaxmi Society, Rama Vihar 

 from where he got recovered Caliber motorcycle bearing No. 

 DL­4SAQ­0277 of Red Color which was used by him in the 

 robbery at Ashok Vihar, which motorcycle was thereafter seized.

 ➢ That in pursuance of their disclosure statements accused Vikas, 

 Parveen and Harshit led the police party to house No. D1/3, Rama 

 Vihar near Gas godown and pointed out towards a motorcycle of 

 blue black color make Bajaj Discover bearing No. DL­4SBD­5343 

 belonging to Deepak Gogia, which was taken into possession. 

 ➢ That on 4.1.2010 on the basis of secret information the accused 

 Jitesh Gogia @ Jitesh was apprehended near Shastri Nagar Metro 

 Station from whose possession Rs.1,00,000/­ were recovered. 

 ➢ That Jitesh Gogia disclosed that his friend Supriya who was 

 working in ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar had informed him that 

 Deepak Gupta (son of the complainant Puran Chand) used to make 

 huge transactions in their bank, which information he had shared 

 with Deepak Gogia and it was agreed that he would be paid Rs.5 St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 146 lacs of which Rs.1,50,000/­ were already paid to him out of which 

 he had already spent Rs.50,000/­ and the remaining amount was 

 yet to be paid. ➢ That during police custody remand of five days on 12.1.2010 Rs. 1,00,000/­ was also got recovered by the accused Harshit 

 Prabhakar from his house which were taken into possession.

 ➢ That Ms. Supriya friend of accused Jitesh Gogia was employed in 

 ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar who passed on the information to Jitesh 

 Gogia regarding Deepak Gupta son of the complainant Puran 

 Chand Gupta being a premium customer of their bank and about 

 the huge transactions done by them. ➢ That accused Jitesh Gogia passed on this information with his 

 cousin Deepak Gogia who thereafter shared the same with his 

 friends Harshit Prabhakar, Praveen Goel and Vikas Aggarwal who 

 thereafter planned the robbery and executed the same on 

 16.12.2009. ➢ That the eye witnesses have specifically proved the incident of 

 armed robbery and after the incident portrait of the suspect was by 

 the police which apparently matches with the accused Praveen 

 Goel. ➢ That as per the electronic evidence in the form of Call Details 

 Records all the accused namely Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas 

 Aggarwal, Praveen Goel, Jitesh Gogia and Deepak Gogia St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 147 (Proclaimed Offender) were in constant touch with each other. 

 ➢ That the location of the various accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas 

 Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) 

 are in the area where the incident took place, not only during 

 during the time of incident but also even a couple of days earlier 

 and even during night time, thereby proving that prior to 

 committing the incident the accused conducted a recce / observed 

 the area. ➢ That the electronic evidence independently corroborates and 

 connects the accused with the offence and is also compatible with 

 the time which the accused Harshit, Vikas, Praveen and Deepak 

 could have taken in first reaching to the house of Deepak Gogia at 

 Rama Vihar (from the spot of occurrence at Phase­II Ashok Vihar) 

 where distribution of the looted cash was done and thereafter in 

 reaching to their respective houses. ➢ That the motive of the crime was to commit robbery upon victims 

 which was pursuant to a criminal conspiracy hatched by the 

 accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel, Jitesh 

 Gogia and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender). ➢ That recovery of the motorcycles and huge amount of robbed 

 money (totaling Rs. One crore twenty six lacs) from the possession 

 of the accused, incriminates all the accused Harshit Prabhakar, 

 Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and Jitesh Gogia and connects them St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 148 with the offence of conspiracy and also the robbery. ➢ That all the accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky, 

 Praveen Goel and Jitesh Gogia have not been able to explain the 

 source of huge cash amount recovered from their possession which 

 currency notes were bundled with the ribbon of the advertising 

 material of ICICI bearing the stamps of Hari Ram Puran Chand on 

 the back side whereas the victims have been able to explain the 

 source of the robbed amount. (145) There are two stages in the criminal prosecution. The first 

obviously is the commission of the crime and the second is the investigation 

conducted regarding the same. In case the investigation is faulty or has not 

been proved in evidence at trial, the question which arise is whether it would 

absolve the liability of the culprit who has committed the offence? The 

answer is obviously in negative, since any lapse on the part of the 

investigation does not negate the offence. (146) The prosecution has proved the identity of the accused, the 

manner in which the offence has been committed, place of commission of the 

offence, the investigation including the documents prepared etc. There is 

nothing which could shatter the veracity of the prosecution witnesses or 

falsify the claim of the prosecution. All the prosecution witnesses have 

materially supported the prosecution case and the testimonies of the 

prosecution witnesses do not suffer from any infirmity, inconsistency or 

contradiction and are consistent and corroborative. The evidence of the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 149 prosecution witnesses is natural and trustworthy and corroborated by 

circumstantial evidence and the witness of the prosecution have been able to 

built up a continuous link. (147) In view of the above, I hereby hold the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and Jitesh Gogia guilty of 

having hatched a criminal conspiracy to commit the robbery upon the 

complainant for which they are held guilty of offence under Section 392 r/w 

120­B Indian Penal Code . Further, having been found in possession of the 

robbed amount all the accused are also held guilty of the offence under Section 411 Indian Penal Code. (148) However, in so far as the charge under Section 397 Indian 

Penal Code is concerned, the prosecution has not been able to prove and 

establish which of the accused had used the pistol and therefore, I acquit the 

accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and Jitesh 

Gogia for the charge under Section 397 Indian Penal Code.

(149) Further, in so far as the witness Ms. Supriya (PW12) is 

concerned, as per the material collected by the prosecution at the initial 

stages it had come on record that she was working in ICICI Bank where 

Deepak Gupta (son of the complainant) was a premium customer and had 

passed on the said account details to Jitesh Gogia which is not only in 

violation of the existing banking rules and regulations requiring maintenance 

of confidentiality of the details of the customer but also entails criminal 

liability (i.e. breach of trust for disclosing the details of the customers of the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 150 bank to the outsiders). During investigations she claimed that she had 

innocently passed on this information to Jitesh Gogia with whom she was 

having an affair and roka ceremony had already been taken place but later on, 

before the Court when asked to produce the date of roka ceremony, she had 

concealed the same and could not able to place on record any documentary 

proof of the same. It is writ large that she has deliberately tried to conceal 

this fact only to justify her frequent call with accused Jitesh Gogia even a day 

before the incident and during intervening night and also on the date of the 

incident. During the course of investigations it was also revealed that she had 

been working on the cash counter of the bank a fact which was disclosed by 

the Authorized Signatory of the bank when a specific query under Section 91 Cr.P.C. was made by the Investigating Officer to the bank which reply is 

Ex.PW12/PX1. Despite the aforesaid she had turned hostile on this aspect 

(she having stated so in her statement under section 161 Cr.P.C.) and when 

confronted with the response of her bank which response was given on the 

basis of the record maintained by the bank she again denied the said response 

but hopelessly tried to justify her earlier statement by explaining that off and 

on she dealt with small amount of cash on the counter. (150) It is writ large that she has made a false statement on oath 

before the Court in order to assist the accused particularly the accused Jitesh 

Gogia her husband whom she married after the incident and to save them 

from penal consequences. Firstly she has turned hostile and did not support 

her earlier version given to the police (under Section 161 Cr.P.C.) wherein she St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 151 had claimed that she had innocently passed on the information to Jitesh 

Gogia regarding the huge money transactions being made by Deepak Gupta 

son of the complainant who was a premium customer of ICICI Bank. 

Secondly before the Court she had claimed that her engagement / roka 

ceremony had been conducted with the accused Jitesh Gogia at the time 

when the incident took place but she is unable to give the date of the same. 

When specifically asked by the Court she has not been able to produce any 

photograph or any documentary proof to show the same. She has apparently 

done so only to conceal the actual date of her engagement / roka ceremony in 

order to justify her frequent calls with the accused Jitesh Gogia on the date of 

the incident and even prior to the same. Lastly earlier she had disclosed to 

the police (in her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C.) that she was working 

on the cash counter (at ICICI Bank) but before the Court she totally denied 

the same which is despite the fact that the Authorized Signatory of ICICI 

Bank had sent a response which is Ex.PW12/PX­1 pursuant to the query put 

by the Investigating Officer under Section 91 Cr.P.C. in which the bank had 

confirmed that she had dealt with the cash counter which response of the 

Bank she also denied when confronted but at the same time she tried to 

justify the same by stating that she off and on had dealt with small amount at 

cash counter. (151) I may observe that Chapter IX of Indian Penal Code has 

been incorporated to deal with the offences relating to giving false evidence 

against public justice. The offence in the Chapter are based upon recognition St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 152 of decline of moral values and erosion of sanctity of oath. The witnesses are 

eyes and ears of the court and are extremely important subjects of the 

criminal justice system. Unscrupulous litigants are found daily resorting to 

utter blatant falsehood in the courts which has to some extent resulted in 

polluting the judicial system. Any attempt by a witness to divert the course 

of justice, is required to be dealt with sternly. Ms. Supriya was legally bound 

by an oath to state the truth in the court which she did not do. This being so I 

am of a considered view that this court cannot allow the witness Ms. Supriya 

to pollute the stream of justice by making a false statement on Oath for 

reasons writ large and get away with it. I hereby direct that she be prosecuted 

and tried for these offences effecting Administration of Justice so that it is 

deterrence for others attempting to indulge into such adventurism.

(152) Therefore, under these circumstances, I am satisfied that 

primafacie there is sufficient material on record to show that Ms. Supriya 

committed offence effecting Administration of Justice by giving false 

evidence on Oath believing the same to be false during the trial of the case 

despite being legally bound to state truth and for offence against Public 

Justice (punishable under Chapter X and XI Indian Penal Code ­ Section 

191 r/w 193 Indian Penal Code ) and it is expedient in the interest of Justice 

that an inquiry be conducted into the offence as alleged. In this regard, I 

hereby authorize and direct the Reader of this Court [in terms of provisions 

of Section 195 (1) (b) (iii) Cr.P.C.] to file a complaint under Section 195 Cr.P.C. along with the relevant documents (i.e. copy of the judgment, copy of St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 153 the statement of Supriya u/s. 161 Cr.P.C., copy of the testimony of Supriya 

before the Court and the copy of the response of the bank) before the Ld. 

CMM for proceeding against Ms. Supriya in accordance with law. 

(153) I may also observe that the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of 

Pritish Vs. State of Maharastra reported in 2001 (IX) AD (SC) 501 has 

observed that there is no statutory requirement to offer an opportunity of 

hearing to the person against whom the court might file a complaint before 

the Magistrate for initiating prosecution proceedings. The court is under no 

obligation to offer an opportunity (to the person against whom a complaint 

would be made) to be heard prior to making a complainant and the principles 

of natural justice would not be hampered by not hearing the person 

concerned at the stage of deciding whether such a person should be 

proceeded against or not. Accordingly there is no need to issue any show 

cause notice to Ms. Supriya. (154) Case be listed for arguments on sentence on 18.3.2013. IN THE COURT OF Dr. KAMINI LAU: ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE­II 
 (NORTH­WEST): ROHINI COURTS: DELHI Session Case No. 145/2011 Unique Case ID No.: 02404R0043732010

State Vs. (1) Harshit Prabhakar
 S/o Shailash Prabhakar
 R/o A­32, Subhadra Colony, 
 Sarai Rohilla, Delhi
 (Convicted)

 (2) Vikas Aggarwal 
 S/o Amrit Lal Aggarwal
 R/o C­5/6, Mahalaxmi Society,
 Rama Vihar, Delhi
 (Convicted)

 (3) Parveen Goel
 S/o Shiv Kumar
 R/o WZ­30, Hari Singh Park,
 Multan Nagar, Delhi
 (Convicted)

 (4) Jitesh Gogia @ Jeetu
 S/o Ram Swaroop Gori
 R/o B­129 Subhadra Colony,
 Sarai Rohilla, Delhi
 (Convicted)

 (5) Deepak Gogia
 S/o Late Om Prakash
 R/o D­1/3, Rama Vihar, Delhi
 (Proclaimed Offender) St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 155 FIR No.: 528/2009 Police Station: Ashok Vihar
Under Sections: 392/397/411/120­B/34 IPC Date of conviction: 12.3.2013

arguments concluded on: 22.3.2013

Date of Sentence: 23.3.2013

APPEARANCE: All the eye witnesses in the present case i.e. complainant / victim 

Puran Chand Gupta, his daughter­in­law Jyoti Gupta and the washer­man / 

press­wala Dharmender & Amit have proved the incident of robbery but have 

turned hostile on the identity of the accused persons. However, on the basis 

of the electronic evidence in the form of Call Detail Records of the various 

mobile phones being used by the accused persons at the time of the incident 

and also on the basis of other circumstantial evidence on record, this Court 

vide a detail judgment dated 12.3.2013 held all the accused i.e. Harshit 

Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky, Praveen Goel @ Vipin and Jitesh 

Gogia @ Jeetu guilty of having committed robbery upon the complainant in 

pursuance to the criminal conspiracy which they had hatched and also of 

being found in possession of robbed property i.e. currency notes. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 158 In the detail Judgment this Court has observed that it stood 

established that the complainant / victim Puran Chand was residing at 

C­2/32, Ashok Vihar, Phase­II, Delhi and is the owner of jewellery shop 

situated at 12 Tooti, Sadar Bazar, Delhi under the name and style Hari Ram 

Pooran Chand Sarraf as well as of another shop of jewellery situated at 

Ashok Vihar Central Market under the name and style of Bansal Jewellers 

where his son Deepak Gupta and son­in­law were partners; that Deepak 

Gupta son of the complainant used to purchase gold bullions from MMTC at 

Jhandewalan for both the above said firms and used to sell the same to 

several customers; that they used to deposit the sale money with their 

Bankers ICICI Ashok Vihar and HDFC Bank, East Patel Nagar; that they get 

profit of Rs.2,000/­ of sale of 1Kg. gold which they used to purchase from 

MMTC through CCOD account from Union Bank of India, Sadar Bazar 

Branch which account has a limit of 3.25 crores and provides the facility to 

utilize in a day maximum amount of Rs.3.25 crores. It has been established during the trial that Ms. Supriya was 

working in the ICICI Bank and often handled cash counters and came to 

know about the detail dealings of Deepak Gupta who had maintained an 

account at ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar and passed on the information to Jitesh 

Gogia whom she alleged was her Fiancée (whom she married later). It also 

stood established that on receiving the said information Jitesh Gogia then 

passed on the same to his cousin brother Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed 

Offender) who in turn shared this information with his friends Harshit St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 159 Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal and Praveen Goel. On the basis of the evidence on record it also stood established 

that on 16.12.2009 in the morning at about 9:00 AM the complainant Puran 

Chand prepared the packets of currency notes totalling Rs.1,55,00,000/­ (Rs. 

One Crore Fifty Five Lacs) in the denominations of 500 and 1000 at his 

house for depositing the same in the bank which packets were put into two 

bags i.e. one of black colour and which had a design like check; that on 

16.12.2009 since Deepak was away to Ahmedabad for official work, the 

daughter in law of the complainant namely Jyoti Gupta had to drive the 

complainant to the bank; that at about 9:20 AM while the complainant Puran 

Chand and his daughter in law Jyoti were putting the bags in the dickey of 

their Maruti Zen Estilo bearing no. DL­8CR­1678 one person pushed him at 

his shoulder as a result of which he move ahead and the said boy lifted the 

said bag and ran away on the black motorcycle which was already in a 

starting position while one person was in driving position; that in the 

meanwhile another motorcycle of red colour came on which two persons 

were sitting and the pillion rider of came down and showed a pistol to the 

victims Puran Chand and Jyoti after which he lifted another bag containing 

the currency notes and ran away on the said motorcycle; that both the 

motorcycles did not have a number plate; that a PCR call was made at 100 

number pursuant to which the police reached the spot and local police was 

informed; that the complainant / victim informed the police that both 

motorcycles were not having any number plate and all the four assailants St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 160 were of the age of 20 to 25 years with a height between 5­6 feet. It has also been established that on the basis of the complaint of 

Puran Chand Gupta the present FIR was got registered and during 

investigations, statements of Smt. Jyoti, Dharmender Kumar and Amit Kumar 

were recorded wherein it was confirmed that two persons had come on bike 

at around 8:40 AM near the house of the complainant and got down at 

Washer­Man / press­wala Dharmender's ironing table and one of them gave a 

jeans pant to Dharmender for ironing and pretended to wait at his shop while 

keeping a watch at the house of the victim. It also stood established that 

during investigations the secret informer provided to the police the number of 

the mobile phones of suspected persons pursuant to which the call details of 

mobile No. 9716451108, 9999337000, 9873222031 and 9873670551 were 

collected and kept on surveillance; that on verification the Investigating 

Agency came to know about the ownership of these mobile phones and a call 

was made on mobile phone number 9716451108 and inquiries were made on 

which the user gave his name as Parveen Goel, R/o WZ­30, Hari Singh Park, 

Multan Nagar, Delhi. It has further been established that on 02.01.2010 the secret 

informer informed the Investigating Officer that one of the suspect was 

coming to Deep Hyundai, Ashok Vihar Industrial Area for service of his i­10 

car bearing number DL4C AJ 6389 pursuant to which inquires were made 

from Deep Hyundai, Ashok Vihar Industrial Area where it was came to be 

known that the said car was being used by Vishal Aggarwal who was using St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 161 mobile number bearing no. 9873670551; that on the same day i.e. 2.10.2010 

at about 5.00 PM one person came there to receive the aforesaid car after 

which they followed him and finally the car parked at C­5/6, Mahalaxmi 

Society, Rama Vihar, Delhi; that police teams were deployed at Multan Nagar 

as well as at Mahalaxmi Society of Rama Vihar for keeping a watch on the 

suspects. Further, it has been established that on 3.10.2010 two police 

teams were constituted one was headed by SI Rajeev Shah who deployed his 

staff at Gate No.5, Multan Nagar, Hari Singh Park and another team headed 

by SI Rajeev Ranjan who along with his team was following the i­10 vehicle 

of white color bearing No. DL­4CAJ­6389 which was moving towards 

Multan Nagar side; that at around 3:00 PM the said white color i­10 car 

bearing the same number came to gate No.5 Multan Nagar and took a left 

turn on the service road on which SI Rajeev Shah blocked the way of i­10 car 

by putting his car in front of it and HC Naresh who was following the said car 

put his car behind the i­10 car; that the boy who was driving the i­10 car was 

apprehended and in the meantime SI Rajiv Ranjan also reached there; that the 

said boy disclosed his name as Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky and also disclosed 

about his involvement as well as the involvement of other accused Praveen 

Goel, Harshit Prabhakar, Jitesh Gogia and Deepak Gogia (proclaimed 

offender) in the robbery; that the accused Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky informed 

them that he tried to run away with the money outside Delhi and his associate 

Deepak Gogia had already gone to Bombay whereas Parveen would arrive St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 162 shortly with the money; that subsequently accused Vikas Aggarwal was 

arrested and thereafter the i­10 car bearing No. DL­4CAJ­6389 was searched 

which found to contain one black color bag in the dickey which was 

containing bundles of currency notes totaling Rs.70,00,000/­ (Seventy Lacs) 

which the accused disclosed as the looted amount from the Ashok Vihar 

robbery and containing his share as well as that of Deepak Gogia; that each 

packet of currency note was bundled with an advertising ribbon of ICICI and 

on the back side of the same stamp of Hari Ram Puran Chand was affixed; 

that the said currency notes were taken into possession and from the personal 

search of accused Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky one mobile phone make SPICE 

M4580 with dual SIM bearing No. 9873670551 & 931171120 having IMEI 

No. 863263008371460 and IMEI No. 86326300837478 was recovered which 

was taken into possession; that accused Vikas Aggarwal was asked to sit in 

the said i­10 car and SI Rajeev Ranjan, HC Naresh and Ct. Kulbhushan also 

sat in the same whereas SI Rajiv Shah along with his members of police 

party reached at Gate No.5 where they took their position; that after 

sometime a boy of thin stature was noticed coming on foot with a bag in his 

hand from the gate No.5 on which he was covered while he was going 

towards the i­10 car; that the said boy was apprehended and he disclosed his 

name as Praveen Goel and also confessed about the robbery at Ashok Vihar; 

that the bag of accused Praveen Goel was searched and it was found to 

contain Rs.30,00,000/­ (Rs. Thirty lacs) and each packet of currency note 

was bundled with an advertising ribbon of ICICI and on the back side of the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 163 same stamp of Hari Ram Puran Chand was affixed; that from the personal 

search of accused Praveen Goel a mobile phone make NOKIA E­90 bearing 

No. 9716451108 and IMEI No. 353660010946147 was recovered which was 

taken into possession; that in the meantime on the mobile phone of Vikas 

Aggarwal one call was received which was heard by the police on 

loudspeaker and the caller disclosed his name as Harshit Prabhakar who was 

waiting for Vikas Aggarwal at Liberty Cinema; that at the instance of 

accused Vikas Aggarwal, the accused Harshit Prabhakar was located at 

Liberty Cinema and was apprehended while he was standing near his ford 

Endeavor car bearing No. DL­4C­AF­0113; that the said car was checked 

and it was found to contain one blue color bag lying under the dash board 

near the adjacent seat of the driving seat and it found to contain packets of 

currency notes totalling Rs.25,00,000/­ (Twenty Five lacs) and each packet 

found tied with an advertising ribbon material of ICICI Bank having stamp of 

Hari Ram Puran Chand proprietor on the back side which currency notes 

were thereafter seized; that from the personal search of the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar one mobile make NOKIA having number 9873222031 bearing 

IMEI No. 358249039815800 was recovered which was also taken into 

possession; that all the three accused persons were thoroughly interrogated 

and they made their disclosure statements regarding the incident and about 

the involvement of the co­accused persons Deepak Gogia and his cousin 

Jitesh Gogia through whom they received information about the complainant 

and his bank account; that in pursuance of his disclosure statement the St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 164 accused Vikas led the police to his house No. C­5/6, Mahalaxmi Society, 

Rama Vihar from where he got recovered Caliber motorcycle bearing No. 

DL­4SAQ­0277 of Red Color which was used by him in the robbery at 

Ashok Vihar, which motorcycle was thereafter seized; that in pursuance of 

their disclosure statements accused Vikas, Parveen and Harshit led the police 

party to house No. D1/3, Rama Vihar near Gas godown and pointed out 

towards a motorcycle of blue black color make Bajaj Discover bearing No. 

DL­4SBD­5343 belonging to Deepak Gogia, which was taken into 

possession. It has also been established that on 4.1.2010 on the basis of secret 

information the accused Jitesh Gogia @ Jitesh was apprehended near 

Shastri Nagar Metro Station from whose possession Rs.1,00,000/­ were 

recovered; that Jitesh Gogia disclosed that his friend Supriya who was 

working in ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar had informed him that Deepak Gupta 

(son of the complainant Puran Chand) used to make huge transactions in their 

bank, which information he had shared with Deepak Gogia and it was agreed 

that he would be paid Rs.5 lacs of which Rs.1,50,000/­ were already paid to 

him out of which he had already spent Rs.50,000/­ and the remaining amount 

was yet to be paid; that during police custody remand of five days on 

12.1.2010 Rs.1,00,000/­ was also got recovered by the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar from his house which were taken into possession; that Ms. Supriya 

friend of accused Jitesh Gogia was employed in ICICI Bank Ashok Vihar 

who passed on the information to Jitesh Gogia regarding Deepak Gupta son St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 165 of the complainant Puran Chand Gupta being a premium customer of their 

bank and about the huge transactions done by them; that accused Jitesh 

Gogia passed on this information with his cousin Deepak Gogia who 

thereafter shared the same with his friends Harshit Prabhakar, Praveen Goel 

and Vikas Aggarwal who thereafter planned the robbery and executed the 

same on 16.12.2009; that the eye witnesses have specifically proved the 

incident of armed robbery and after the incident portrait of the suspect was 

by the police which apparently matches with the accused Praveen Goel. It has further been established that as per the electronic evidence 

in the form of Call Details Records all the accused namely Harshit Prabhakar, 

Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel, Jitesh Gogia and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed 

Offender) were in constant touch with each other; that the location of the 

various accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and 

Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed Offender) are in the area where the incident took 

place, not only during during the time of incident but also even a couple of 

days earlier and even during night time, thereby proving that prior to 

committing the incident the accused conducted a recce / observed the area; 

that the electronic evidence independently corroborates and connects the 

accused with the offence and is also compatible with the time which the 

accused Harshit, Vikas, Praveen and Deepak could have taken in first 

reaching to the house of Deepak Gogia at Rama Vihar (from the spot of 

occurrence at Phase­II Ashok Vihar) where distribution of the looted cash 

was done and thereafter in reaching to their respective houses; that the motive St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 166 of the crime was to commit robbery upon victims which was pursuant to a 

criminal conspiracy hatched by the accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas 

Aggarwal, Praveen Goel, Jitesh Gogia and Deepak Gogia (Proclaimed 

Offender); that recovery of the motorcycles and huge amount of robbed 

money (totaling Rs. One crore twenty six lacs) from the possession of the 

accused, incriminates all the accused Harshit Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, 

Praveen Goel and Jitesh Gogia and connects them with the offence of 

conspiracy and also the robbery; that all the accused Harshit Prabhakar, 

Vikas Aggarwal @ Vicky, Praveen Goel and Jitesh Gogia have not been able 

to explain the source of huge cash amount recovered from their possession 

which currency notes were bundled with the ribbon of the advertising 

material of ICICI bearing the stamps of Hari Ram Puran Chand on the back 

side whereas the victims have been able to explain the source of the robbed 

amount. In view of the above I hereby hold the accused Harshit 

Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and Jitesh Gogia guilty for he 

offence under Sections 392 r/w 120­B Indian Penal Code and Section 411 Indian Penal Code for which they have been accordingly convicted. 

However, they have been acquitted of the charge under Section 397 r/w 120­

B Indian Penal Code . Heard arguments on the point of sentence. The convict Harshit 

Prabahakar is stated to be aged about 33 years having a family comprising 

of parents, one elder brother, wife and one son. He holds a degree of St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 167 Bachelor of Commerce and at the time of his arrest was doing the business of 

publication. Ld. Counsel for the convict has vehemently argued that the 

convict is in Judicial Custody since 3.1.2010 and has clean antecedents. 

According to the Ld. Counsel the parents of the convict are suffering from all 

old age ailments. The convict Vikas Aggarwal is stated to be aged about 30 years 

having a family comprising of parents, one elder brother and one younger 

sister. He holds a degree of Bachelor of Commerce and at the time of his 

arrest was doing his Private Business. The Ld. Counsel for the convict has 

argued that the convict is in judicial custody since 3.1.2010 and is a first time 

offender. It is submitted that the convict is the only son of his helpless 

parents since his father is suffering from blood pressure and hypertension etc. 

and his mother is suffering from arthritis. It is argued that the family of the 

convict has been undergoing a crucial phase of life and besides the financial 

hardships all family members have been lacking an emotional and moral 

strength in the absence of the applicant due to which they are at the verge of 

loosing all hopes of leading a peaceful life. The convict Praveen Goel is stated to be aged about 30 years 

having a family comprising of parents, two married younger sisters, wife and 

one son. He is 10th class pass and at the time of his arrest was working in a 

Hotel. Ld. Counsel for the convict has vehemently argued that he is in 

judicial custody since 3.1.2010 after which he is inside the custody 

continuously. It is submitted that the convict is not involved in any other case St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 168 and is a first time offender. It is also submitted that at the time of the 

incident the convict was aged about 28 years and the parents of the convict 

are suffering from various old age ailments. Ld. Counsel has also pointed 

out that the grandmother of the convict with whom he was deeply attached 

had expired on 20.3.2013. The convict Jitesh Gogia is stated to be aged about 30 years 

having a family comprising of parents, one elder brother, two elder sisters(of 

whom one is married) and wife. He is a B. Com. and is having a shop of 

Spare Parts at Kashmere Gate. Ld. Counsel for the convict has vehemently 

argued that the convict is a first time offender and is not involved in any other 

case. It is also argued that the wife of the convict is pregnant and the convict 

has to take her care also apart from his aged parents. All the counsels have prayed for a lenient view and that the 

convicts be released on the period already undergone by them. On the other hand the Ld. Addl. PP for the State has prayed for a 

stern view against the convicts. He has argued that during the trial of the 

present case the convict Harshit Prabhakar has been granted interim bail by 

the Hon'ble High Court during which period he has involved himself in 

another case bearing FIR No. 36/2012, PS Tilak Marg, under Sections 223 , 224 IPC. He has also argued that keeping in view the allegations involved 

the convicts deserve no leniency. I have considered the rival contentions. Law and order situation 

has been deteriorating in the country and has worsen in the recent past. St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 169 Instances of young persons getting involved in criminal activities of robbing 

innocent persons by putting them under threat of death, are also on rise. 

Recently there has also been a spike in reports of young educated youth 

belonging to affluent families committing crimes such as armed robbery as 

happened in the present case and it is on account of increasing culture of 

consumerism, lust for easy money, lack of role models within the family and 

no fear of law. Trigger friendly youths unhesitatingly and indiscriminately 

use dangerous firearms on helpless victims who may or not offer any 

resistance thereby spreading terror in the society and adversely affecting 

social order and the faith of people in the system. This is not a case where the position of the convicts Harshit 

Prabhakar, Vikas Aggarwal, Praveen Goel and Jitesh Gogia could be held as 

vulnerable on account of abject poverty or social status. Rather, on the other 

hand they are all qualified young men belonging to affluent families and it is 

writ large that they were driven by desire for easy money for meeting their 

affluent life styles. There was no previous animosity between the convict and 

the victim and the intent was solely monetary gain. Undue sympathy, under 

these circumstances, to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to 

the justice system to undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of law 

and society could not long endure under such serious threats. It is, therefore, 

the duty of this court to award a sentence having regard to the nature of the 

offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed. (Ref: Sevaka 

Perumal Etc. Vs. State of Tamil Nadu reported in AIR 1991 SC 1463). St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 170 In this background, I award the following sentence to the convict 

Harshit Prabhakar: Both the sentences shall run concurrently. I award the following sentence to the convict Vikas Aggarwal: Both the sentences shall run concurrently. I award the following sentence to the convict Praveen Goel: Both the sentences shall run concurrently. In so far as the convict Jitesh Gogia is concerned, I award the 

following sentence to him: Both the sentences shall run concurrently. Benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C. shall be given to the convicts for 

the period already undergone by them, as per rules. The convicts have been informed that they have a right to prefer an 

appeal against this judgment. They have been apprised that in case they 

cannot afford to engage an advocate, they can approach the Legal Aid Cell, 

functioning in Tihar Jail or write to the Secretary, Delhi High Court Legal St. Vs. Harshit Prabhakar Etc., FIR No. 528/09, PS Ashok Vihar Page No. 172 Services Committee, 34­37, Lawyers Chamber Block, High Court of Delhi, 

New Delhi. One copy of the judgment and order on sentence be given to all 

the convicts free of costs and one copy of order on sentence be attached with 

their jail warrant. File be consigned to Record Room to be taken up on the arrest 

of accused Deepak Gogia who is a Proclaimed Offender.