Hon'ble Shashi Kant, J. (Delivered by Hon'ble Vikram Nath, J)
 
	The Ministry of Coal, Government of India issued an Office Memorandum dated 18.10.2007 laying down the New Coal Distribution Policy with regard to the consumers in Small and Middle Sectors as contained in Paragraph 3 of the Coal Policy filed as Annexure-2 to the Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015 which directed that the earmarked quantity of coal for companies / consumers would be distributed through the agencies notified by the State Governments. It also provided that these agencies could be State Government Agencies, Central Government Agencies [National Cooperative Consumer Federation (NCCF) / National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC) etc.] or industries associations as the State Government may deem appropriate. The agency so notified will continue to distribute coal until the State Government chooses to denotify it. There was further incorporation made that the agency / association so notified by the State Government would be required to enter into Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA) with coal company to be designated by the Coal India Limited and such agreement would continue to remain in force till either the State Government denotifies the agency / association or Coal India Limited shifts the obligation to some other coal company. With regard to the State of U.P., the Government vide the Government Order dated 01.04.2008 (Annexure-3 to the Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015) appointed the U.P. Small Industries Corporation Limited, Kanpur (a Government of India Undertaking) (hereinafter referred to as the UPSIC) as the nodal agency for distribution of coal in the entire State of U.P. An agreement was executed on 19.04.2011 which is the fuel supply agreement in between the Central Coalfields Limited and the UPSIC (Annexure-4 to the Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015). The UPSIC in turn as per the National Coal Policy advertised for appointment of a coal coordinator / handler to take care of lifting of the coal from the site and deliver it to the consumers as per the allotment made by the UPSIC. Pursuant to the said advertisement, the UPSIC appointed one M/s A.K.A. Logistics Private Limited as its handler (petitioner in Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015). This arrangement continued till July 2014 when the State Government took a decision on 16.07.2014 to bifurcate the distribution of coal given to the UPSIC by appointing another nodal agency i.e. U.P. Pradeshik Cooperative Federation Limited (hereinafter referred to as the UPPCF). 40% of the distribution remained with UPSIC and 60% of the distribution was given to the UPPCF (Annexure-10 to the Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015). The newly appointed nodal agency UPPCF thereafter advertised for appointing its' handler and accordingly notice was published on 30.08.2014 in different newspapers having State / National circulations, inviting the Expression of Interest (EOI) from different firms / companies. The applications could be purchased up to 23.09.2014 and submitted on or before 27.09.2014. In all 9 applications were received by the UPPCF. A pre-bid meeting is said to have taken place on 24.09.2014 in which the Committee constituted by the UPPCF and the applicants participated. On 27.09.2014 the technical bids were opened and as per the terms and conditions laid down by the UPPCF, marks were allotted to all the applicants under 7 different heads. The terms and conditions of the EOI also provided that the highest 2 scorers would then be considered for opening of their financial bids. The financial bids are said to have been opened on 04.10.2014 in which 2 highest scorers were namely M/s Pavan Coal Company (respondent in Writ Petition No.58843 of 2014 & Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015 and petitioner of Writ Petition No.21028 of 2015) along with M/s Swastik Coal Suppliers. It would be relevant to mention here that M/s Pavan Coal Company scored 70 out of 70 marks whereas M/s Swastik Coal Suppliers scored 58 marks. M/s Sendoz Impex Limited (petitioner in Writ Petition No.58843 of 2014) scored 18 marks and M/s A.K.A. Logistics Private Limited (petitioner in Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015) secured 50 marks. On 04.10.2014 as the financial bid of Ms/ Pavan Coal Company was better than the second highest scorer M/s Swastik Coal Suppliers, it was appointed as the coal handler for UPPCF. An agreement pursuant to the said appointment was executed on 10.10.2014. M/s Sendoz Impex Limited filed Writ Petition No.58843 of 2014 before this Court on 03.11.2014 praying for issuance of a writ in the nature of certiorari quashing the appointment of the respondent no.3 (M/s Pavan Coal Company) as coal coordinator appointed by the UPPCF. The prayers as claimed in the aforesaid writ petition are reproduced below : This Court while hearing the petition on admission passed the following order on 10.11.2014 : This Court while entertaining this petition passed an interim order dated 09.03.2015 inviting counter affidavit from all the respondents who were duly represented by their respective counsels and further restraining the respondent no.6 (M/s Pavan Coal Company) from indulging in any activities pertaining to handling and movement of coal in terms of the supply order dated 28.10.2014. The Court further stayed the operation of the appointment order dated 04.10.2014. The interim order was made operative till 25.03.2015 which was the next date fixed in the matter. The interim order dated 09.03.2015 is reproduced below : After hearing learned counsel for the parties this Court passed an order on 15.04.2015 to connect this writ petition with the earlier 2 petitions and directed that the matter be fixed for 22.04.2015, the date already fixed in the earlier 2 petitions. On 22.04.2015 when the matter was taken up, an amendment application (registered as Application No.156465 of 2015) was filed by the petitioner for adding certain paragraphs and grounds and also prayer clause for quashing the order dated 21.04.2015 passed by the Managing Director of the UPPCF whereby the appointment of M/s Pavan Coal Company vide order dated 04.10.2014 and the agreement executed on 10.10.2014 pursuant to the said appointment were cancelled. Arguments have been heard in all the 3 petitions together. We have heard Sri Shanti Bhushan, learned Senior Counsel along with Sri Chhotey Lal Pandey, Sri Prashant Chandra, Ms. Kamini Jaiswal, learned Senior Counsels assisted by Sri Rahul Agrawal & Sri Rohan Gupta, learned counsels for M/s Pavan Coal Company, Sri Pinaki Mishra & Sri Shashi Nandan, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Sri Anurag Khanna and Sri Nipun Singh, learned counsels for M/s A.K.A. Logistics, Sri Navin Sinha, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Sri Devansh Rathore, learned counsel for M/s Sendoz Impex Limited, Sri Vijay Bahadur Singh, learned Advocate General for the State of U.P. assisted by Sri Ramesh Upadhyay, learned Chief Standing Counsel and Sri Ravi Kant, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Sri R.G. Tripathi, Sri Ajay Bhanot, Sri Mohit Singh and Sri Gaurav Mehrotra, learned counsels for the UPPCF. The writ petitions filed by Ms/ Sendoz Impex Limited and M/s A.K.A. Logistics Private Limited primarily raised three grounds with regard to the appointment of M/s Pavan Coal Company as the coal coordinator. The aspect relating to the bifurcation of the work of the nodal agency would be dealt with separately. The first ground of attack was the violation of the terms of the EOI (clause 12) which provided that any proprietor or partner or director of the applicant firm / company shall not be black listed / debarred by any State agency and further that with regard to any work done within the State, there was no inquiry pending against it by any State or Central agency. According to the 2 petitioners, Pavan Gupta, one of the partners of M/s Pavan Coal Company, was facing criminal charges and was charge sheeted by the CBI in the State of Maharashtra with regard to diversion and black marketing of coal, working as coal handler for National Cooperative Consumers Federation (NCCF). In such circumstances M/s Pavan Coal Company was not eligible to apply for being considered for appointment as coal coordinator / handler. The second ground taken was that an affidavit was required under the terms and conditions of the EOI to clearly state that the applicant firm / company which was carrying on the work of coal handling in different States of the Country had a good reputation (Achchi Prathistha) in those States. According to the 2 petitioners as one of the partners of M/s Pavan Coal Company was facing criminal charges and the CBI had submitted a charge sheet against him, the Firm M/s Pavan Coal Company could not be said to have a good reputation in the State of Maharashtra where it was carrying the work of coal handler for NCCF. The affidavit given by one of the partners of M/s Pavan Coal Company contains incorrect facts and amounts to misrepresentation. Third and the last point taken by the 2 petitioners was to the effect that M/s Pavan Coal Company was a partnership concern / firm at the time it purchased the tender documents and submitted the same on 27.09.2014. Soon thereafter on 29.09.2014 M/s Pavan Coal Company partnership firm got itself converted and incorporated as a Limited Liability Partnership under the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (hereinafter referred to as LLP Act ) in the name of M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP. The case of UPPCF is that the tender documents were purchased and submitted by M/s Pavan Coal Company partnership firm which was in existence till 29.09.2014 and w.e.f. 29.09.2014 it became M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP but despite the same on 10.10.2014 the agreement was executed by the partner of M/s Pavan Coal Company partnership firm & not M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP and therefore the agreement itself having been executed by a non-existent person / firm was void. In addition to above 3 grounds other grounds were also raised by the 2 petitioners relating to certain relaxations in the terms and conditions of the EOI. The marking system was also criticized. Argument was also raised regarding incorrect award of marks. Further clause 12 of EOI which limited the scope of inquiry with regard to work in the State of U.P. only as being against public policy. The said clause 12 was said to be unreasonable, arbitrary and was made only to extend benefit to M/s Pavan Coal Company, to become eligible. Even the first part of clause 12 of the EOI was criticized which had limited debarment / black listing by any State agency. The Central agencies were deliberately excluded. During the pendency of the 2 petitions filed by M/s Sendoz Impex Limited and M/s A.K.A. Logistics Private Limited, UPPCF after suspending the agreement in favour of M/s Pavan Coal Company on 09.04.2015 and after giving a show cause notice of even date UPPCF cancelled the agreement as also the appointment of M/s Pavan Coal Company as its' coal coordinator / handler vide order dated 21.04.2015. Sri Navin Sinha, learned Senior Counsel appearing in Writ Petition No.58843 of 2014 and Sri Shashi Nandan, learned Senior Counsel appearing in Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015 upon instructions stated that both these petitions may be dismissed as withdrawn in view of the development relating to the cancellation of the agreement of M/s Pavan Coal Company. According to them as the reliefs claimed in the two petitions have since been granted by UPPCF nothing survives to be considered in these petitions. In terms they also gave up their relief against bifurcation of work of the nodal agency. The said request for dismissing the 2 petitions as withdrawn was opposed by learned counsel for M/s Pavan Coal Company and written objections were also submitted in that respect. Sri Rahul Agrawal, learned counsel representing M/s Pavan Coal Company submitted that in case the 2 petitioners are withdrawing their petitions they should not be granted any liberty or leave to file an application for recall in case the Writ Petition No.21028 of 2015 is allowed by this Court and the agreement in favour of M/s Pavan Coal Company is restored. This issue will be taken up after the decision in Writ Petition No.21028 of 2015. We therefore proceed to deal with Writ Petition No.21028 of 2015, M/s Pavan Coal Company vs. State of U.P. and others. As mentioned in the earlier part of this order this petition (Writ Petition No.21028 of 2015, M/s Pavan Coal Company vs. State of U.P. and others) was originally filed against the show cause notice dated 09.04.2015 as also the order of suspension dated 09.04.2015 by which the agreement in favour of M/s Pavan Coal Company had been suspended. However, as during the pendency of this petition UPPCF terminated the contract on 21.04.2015 by cancelling the appointment vide order dated 04.10.2014 as also the agreement dated 10.10.2014 in favour of M/s Pavan Coal Company, an amendment application was filed which has since been allowed and an amended petition has already been filed. Sri Prashant Chandra, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner (M/s Pavan Coal Company) submitted that once this Court was seized with the matter wherein the validity of the appointment of M/s Pavan Coal Company and the agreement executed consequent thereto was under consideration, UPPCF ought to have kept its hands off and should not having indulged into initiating any proceedings for cancellation. He further submitted that in case UPPCF wanted to initiate such proceedings it ought to have taken leave or liberty from the Court before proceeding any further in the matter. This argument does not appeal to us in as much as UPPCF was well within its rights to reconsider as to whether the contract had been rightly obtained or not, whether or not there was any concealment or misrepresentation. The fact that M/s Pavan Coal Company is proceeding in the matter was placed before the Court and there was no embargo imposed upon UPPCF for not proceeding to reconsider the giving of the contract to M/s Pavan Coal Company Thus we do not find any infirmity or lack of jurisdiction in UPPCF in reconsidering the matter and taking a decision pursuant to its' show cause notice. The charge sheet dated 09.04.2015 is the genesis of the termination order. It contained 3 charges. The 1st charge related to the concealment of material facts while giving the disclosure as required by Clause 12 of the EOI. The non-disclosure related to the criminal case against Pavan Kumar Gupta, one of the partners of M/s Pavan Coal Company in the State of Maharashtra where charge sheet was submitted by the CBI before the Special Judge (Anti-Corruption), Nagpur relating to the diversion and black marketing of coal while working as coal coordinator / handler for NCCF. The charge mentioned is that NCCF was the nodal agency for the entire Country which included the State of U.P. also and as such there was deliberate concealment and incorrect information having been provided by M/s Pavan Coal Company in stating that there was no inquiry or investigation pending with regard to handling of coal by any State or Central Agency. In support of this charge the UPPCF has referred to 2 documentary evidences ; first document is the charge sheet submitted by the CBI dated 28.12.2010 and second is an order dated 05.11.2014 passed by Mumbai High Court, Nagpur Bench in Criminal Application No.603 of 2012, Pavan Ramsnehi Gupta vs. CBI . The 2nd charge alleged was that the tender submitted by M/s Pavan Coal Company was accepted and approved on 04.10.2014. Thereafter the agreement was executed on 10.10.2014. It was executed by a partner of and on behalf of M/s Pavan Coal Company, a partnership firm. It further mentioned that during the hearing of earlier 2 writ petitions in the counter and supplementary counter affidavits filed by M/s Pavan Coal Company it was disclosed that M/s Pavan Coal Company partnership firm had been converted into a limited liability partnership by the name of M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP on 29.09.2014. The information regarding this conversion into LLP from a partnership firm was given only on 14.11.2014 by the Company whereas it should have been provided prior to 04.10.2014. The charge further mentioned that on 10.10.2014 at the time of execution of the agreement M/s Pavan Coal Company partnership firm was not in existence and this fact having deliberately not been brought to the knowledge of the UPPCF, a fraud was committed by M/s Pavan Coal Company. It further mentioned that deliberately by concealing material facts it entered into an agreement having been executed by a firm which was not in existence on the date of the execution. As such the agreement in question was void ab initio. In support of this charge the UPPCF has referred to two documentary evidences; first document is the agreement dated 10.10.2014 and second document is Annexure-2 to the counter affidavit of M/s Pavan Coal Company dated 23.03.2015 filed in Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015 which was a copy of the LLP deal. The 3rd charge alleged was that Sri Abhimanyu Kashiwar, a partner of the firm gave an affidavit as partner of the firm which stated that the firm carries out work of coal handling in different States of the Country and in all such States its reputation was good (Achchi Pratistha). According to the charge this statement was incorrect in as much as M/s Pavan Coal Company indulged in diversion and black marketing of coal in the State of Maharashtra and the CBI had submitted its charge sheet before the Nagpur Court against Pavan Kumar Gupta, partner of M/s Pavan Coal Company. In such circumstances it could not be said that the reputation of the said firm was good. As evidence copy of the partner affidavit dated 05.09.2014 was relied upon. M/s Pavan Coal Company was called upon to submit its reply within a week with regard to the concealment of facts and committing fraud as to why the agreement be not cancelled. The charge sheet also mentioned that in case no reply is received within the time allowed, the appointment and agreement as coal handler would be cancelled. M/s Pavan Coal Company submitted a detailed reply dated 17.04.2015 (Annexure-25 to the writ petition). The reply runs into 20 pages containing 54 paragraphs. Paragraphs 1 to 39 give the background and the procedure adopted in awarding the contract. Paragraph 40 deals with in detail all the 3 charges levelled in the charge sheet. The remaining paragraphs thereafter further contain material facts relating to M/s Pavan Coal Company. It was stated that the charges as framed were not tenable in law. The order dated 21.04.2015 passed by the Managing Director cancelling the appointment as also the agreement also runs into 18 pages. It has separately dealt with each of the charges and also refers to the relevant paragraph no.40 which is a specific reply to the 3 charges contained in the charge sheet. With regard to charge no.1 it was stated in the objections filed by M/s Pavan Coal Company that the charge sheet submitted before the Nagpur Court was with regard to works carried out in State of Maharashtra and not in the State of U.P. therefore there was no concealment or furnishing of incorrect facts as Clause 12 of the EOI only required that the inquiry / investigation by a State or Central agency should be with regard to the works carried out in the State of U.P. itself. According to M/s Pavan Coal Company there is no charge sheet or inquiry or investigation by a State or Central agency with regard to any work done in the State of U.P. As such there was neither any concealment nor furnishing of any incorrect information. The finding however is that the charge sheet submitted before the Nagpur Court by the CBI was not only against the officers of the NCCF or the State agency M/s Nitin Marketing but also against Pavan Kumar Gupta, partner of M/s Pavan Coal Company. It was further found that it was the duty of M/s Pavan Coal Company at the time of submitting its tender to have mentioned about this fact which was deliberately concealed. The Managing Director in the impugned order recorded that since the NCCF was the nodal agency for the allotment of coal in the entire Country which covers the State of U.P. also as such M/s Pavan Coal Company was under obligation to have informed about this fact and about the charge sheet filed before the Nagpur Court and thus its' eligibility would be hit by Clause 12 of the EOI. With regard to charge no.2 the objection of the petitioner M/s Pavan Coal Company was that on 06.10.2014 before signing of the contract they had informed Sri G.S. Kalsi, Executive Director, UPPCF the Incharge of the EOI Evaluation Committee about the conversion of M/s Pavan Coal Company, a partnership firm, into M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP by an e-mail. It was also informed that copy of the registration certificate dated 29.9.2014 issued by the Registrar as well as a letter of M/s Pavan Coal Company to the aforesaid effect was also attached along with the e-mail. M/s Pavan Coal Company further mentioned that they had purchased the stamp papers required for executing the contract in the name of M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP on 08.10.2014 and it is on these stamp papers that the agreement had been executed. It is also the case of M/s Pavan Coal Company that covering letter of the Bank dated 14.10.2014 about furnishing the bank guarantee of Rs.50 lakhs was issued to M/s Pavan Coal Company on behalf of M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP as per the terms and conditions of the EOI. This would show that the bank guarantee was charged from the account of M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP. It further mentioned in the reply to the show cause that several letters were written in the month of October 2014 to the UPPCF by M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP which clearly mentioned this fact of conversion of the partnership firm into LLP. Further reference was made to a communication dated 20.12.2014 by the UPPCF requesting the petitioner M/s Pavan Coal Company not to use LLP in correspondence. While dealing with these objections the Managing Director in the impugned order of termination has recorded that the e-mail communication dated 06.10.2014 which admittedly is the only communication prior to execution of the agreement on 10.10.2014 was sent at the personal ID of Sri G.S. Kalsi. The finding is that the petitioner M/s Pavan Coal Company for the first time in its' communication dated 14.11.2014 mentioned about the conversion of the partnership into LLP. With regard to the e-mail on 06.10.2014 to Sri Kalsi the finding is that the communication with the UPPCF was being made on e-mail ID [email protected] . and not on any personal e-mail ID of any officer. The impugned order further proceeded to deal with the provisions contained in the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 and referring to Clauses 7 (b) & (c) of Second Schedule. Clauses 7 (b) & (c) are quoted below : According to the above provision on and from the date of registration specified in the certificate of registration issued under clause 5 the firm shall be deemed to be dissolved and consequent thereof the earlier registration made under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 be removed from the records maintained under that Act. Relying upon such provision the Managing Director recorded a finding that w.e.f. 29.09.2014 M/s Pavan Coal Company partnership firm having been converted and registered as M/s Pavan Coal Company LLP, the partnership firm could not have remained in existence and the execution of the agreement on 10.10.2014 by a partnership firm would be by a non-existent party and as such the agreement would be void ab initio. In reply to charge no.3, the objections raised by the petitioner M/s Pavan Coal Company are that mere filing of the charge sheet against one of the partners of M/s Pavan Coal Company cannot lead to a conclusion that the reputation of the Company was not good or that its' reputation stood tarnished. It is also the case of the petitioner M/s Pavan Coal Company that even after the submission of the charge sheet by the CBI, the NCCF had continued the petitioner as its' coal handler and agreement with the NCCF remained intact. The NCCF neither cancelled the agreement nor at any stage initiated any proceedings against the petitioner M/s Pavan Coal Company or gave any show cause notice or disrupted its working as coal handler. It is also the case of the petitioner that subsequently also NCCF had awarded work to the petitioner M/s Pavan Coal Company. The Managing Director found the explanation of the petitioner M/s Pavan Coal Company as not convincing and relying upon the charge sheet submitted by the CBI before the Nagpur Court against Pavan Kumar Gupta, partner of M/s Pavan Coal Company, proceeded to hold that the reputation of the petitioner could not be said to be good in the State of Maharashtra and as such the affidavit given by one of its' partners did not contain the correct facts. Discussion : Charge No.1 : For one or the other reasons the High Court went on to dismiss the petition filed under Section 482 Cr.P.C. by Pavan Kumar Gupta. The SLP filed against the Bombay High Court order was also dismissed by the Apex Court. The trial has not concluded and there is no conviction against Pavan Kumar Gupta. It is also the case of the petitioner which apparently is not disputed that the petitioner has been in the business of coal handling for approximately 3 decades and claims that it has neither been black listed nor charge sheeted nor its contract has been terminated on account of breach of contract or otherwise ever. For this reason the partner of the petitioner's firm Abhimanyu Kashiwar strongly believed that the reputation of the firm was good in all the States where the firm was carrying on business of coal handling. One more fact may be recorded here that even after submission of the charge sheet the petitioner's work has not been terminated or disturbed by the NCCF. The petitioner has received and entered into other contracts in other States as coal handler subsequent to the submission of the charge sheet. The affidavit which was required to be given by one of the partners of the firm is simply worded as it is nowhere defined as to how Prathista is to be determined and what are the parameters to be considered in declaring the reputation (Pratishtha) to be good (Achchi). It may also be noted that the term "Pratistha" is subjective and is open to interpretation. The affidavit has been sworn on personal belief and hence cannot be said to be false on this ground alone. Even as per the own showing of UPPCF it has been contended that "Prathistha" is akin to reputation and it is different from 'character' since it connotes what the perception of the general public is. It is submitted that the perception of the general public is subjective and not objective. Moreover it may be noted that it is not the case of UPPCF that the general public opinion was taken into account at the time of or before passing the impugned order. Hence the question here is not whether the Prathistha is good or not but whether the partner of the firm Abhimanyu Kashiwar could be denied from even expressing his assessment that he believed that the petitioner firm was a respectable firm, due to it being the oldest and most experienced in the country with no previous bad antecedents and for all other reasons recorded above. Just because a charge sheet had been filed against one of the directors of the firm, its long untarnished reputation could not be said to be tarnished at least in his belief and understanding. The answer would have to be in the negative since mere filing of the charge sheet is of no consequence and a person would be presumed to be innocent unless proved guilty. Reference in this regard may be had to the following decisions of the Apex Court and High Courts : ii)	In Kailash Gour and others vs. State of Assam reported in 2012 (2) SCC 34 the Supreme Court in para 39 has explained as follows: iii)	In S. Ganesan vs. Rama Raghuraman reported in 2011 (2) SCC 83 the Supreme Court in paragraph 39 has explained as follows : iv)	In Girja Prasad Sharma and others vs. Umashankar Pathak reported in AIR 1973 M.P. 79 the High Court in para 18 has explained as follows : We may reproduce the following quotations on reputation with appreciation : In Kiran Bedi vs. Committee of Inquiry reported in (1989) 1 SCC 494 Supreme Court referred to Bhagwad Gita, Blackstone's Commentary of the Laws of England and Corpus Juris Secundu. Paras 22 to 24 of the report are reproduced hereunder : 23. In Blackstone's Commentary of the Laws of England, Vol. I, 4th Edn., it has been stated at p. 101 that the right of personal security consists in a person's legal and uninterrupted enjoyment of his life, his limbs, his body, his health and his reputation. 24. In Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. 77 at p. 268 is to be found the statement of law in the following terms: For all the reasons recorded above we are unable to accept the finding recorded by the Managing Director that the affidavit contained incorrect statements with regard to the reputation of the petitioner firm. The statement given was an honest belief of the deponent in his own wisdom and understanding. Discussion : Charge No.2 : (a)	suing and being sued ; (b)	acquiring, owning, holding and 	developing or disposing of property, 	whether movable or immovable, tangible 	or intangible. (c)	having a common seal, if it decides to 	have one; and (d)	doing and suffering such other acts and 	things as bodies corporate may lawfully 	do and suffer. Under Section 21 of the LLP Act every limited liability partnership is required to bear the name and address of its registered office, registration number and a statement that it is registered with limited liability on all its invoices, official correspondences and publications. The extent of liability of limited liability partnership and that of liability of partnership has been laid down under Sections 27 & 28 of the LLP Act. Chapter X of the LLP Act deals with the conversion of a pre existing firm or private company or a public limited company into a limited liability partnership. Section 55 of the LLP Act provides that a firm may convert into a limited liability partnership in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and the Second Schedule. In the present case it is a conversion of partnership firm into a limited liability partnership and therefore the provision of the Second Schedule as also the other provisions of Chapter X would be relevant. Section 58 of the LLP Act deals with the registration and effect of conversion. The same is reproduced below : The Second Schedule contains 7 paragraphs. There is no issue that the partnership firm has converted into a limited liability partnership and registered as such on 29.09.2014. Paragraph no.5 of the Second Schedule deals with the registration of conversion, which is admitted to be 29.09.2014. It further requires that the limited liability partnership shall within 15 days of the date of registration inform the concerned Registrar of the Firms or Registrar of the Companies with which it was registered under the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 or the Companies Act, 1956 about the conversion and of the particulars of the limited liability partnership. 	Paragraph no.7 of the Second Schedule provides the effect of registration. It reads as follows : Clauses (a), (b) & (c) of Paragraph no.7 of the Second Schedule are to the effect that on and from the date of registration specified in the certificate of registration issued under Paragraph no.5 as mentioned in opening part thereof. According to Clause (a) the limited liability partnership would come into existence on and from the date of registration specified in the certificate of registration ; under Clause (b) it is provided that from that date all tangible (movable and immovable) property as well as intangible property vested in the firm all assets, interests, rights, privileges, liabilities, obligations relating to the firm and the whole of the undertaking of the firm shall be transferred to and shall vest in the limited liability partnership without further assurance, act or deal from the date mentioned in the certificate of registration ; Clause (c) provides that the firm shall be deemed to be dissolved and if earlier registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 removed from the record maintained under that Act. All the above consequences take effect from the date of registration as limited liability partnership. It is these words "shall be deemed to be" which have been emphasized upon by the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner to show that there was a deeming clause and the legal fiction stood corrected and should be given full effect and taken to a logical conclusion keeping in mind that the object for which the fiction was created should not be lost. We are unable to accept the submission of the learned Senior Counsel that the partnership firm would by legal fiction continue in any form whatsoever to act any further. The words used "deemed to be" in Clause (c) of Paragraph 7 of the Second Schedule only make it further clear that on or from the date of registration the firm would stand dissolved. There can be no other meaning assigned or attributed to the phrase, and language used therein. The effect of registration takes place on and from the date of registration and on and from the said date it is limited liability partnership firm which comes into existence and becomes a legal entity to carry on further all transactions, and hold all assets and liabilities of the firm. Before proceeding further we may also refer to the provisions contained under Section 58 , sub-clause (4) of the LLP Act which in terms is the same as the language used in Paragraph no.7 of the Second Schedule that is to say even at the cost of repetition that on and from the date of registration of LLP the firm or a company as the case may be would stand dissolved and removed from the records of the Registrar of the Firms or Registrar of the Companies as the case may be. The words "deemed to be" used in fact cannot extend any benefit to the petitioner rather it is to their detriment. The question would now arise as to what would be the effect if a non-existing entity entered into an agreement. A company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 or a partnership firm registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 is a legal entity competent to contract. In the present case the limited liability partnership registered under the LLP Act became competent to contract having acquired legal entity w.e.f. 29.09.2014. M/s Pavan Coal Company became limited liability partnership which was registered and incorporated under the LLP Act on 29.09.2014. It was this legal entity which was competent to enter into a contract in view of the provisions contained under Section 14 of the LLP Act. Prior to 29.09.2014 M/s Pavan Coal Company Partnership Firm was a registered firm under the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 . Once the conversion took place w.e.f. 29.09.2014 the partnership firm stood dissolved in view of Section 58 clause (4) (c) of the LLP Act from the date of registration as also under Paragraph 7 (c) of the Second Schedule to the LLP Act . That would clearly mean that the partnership firm was not in existence from 29.09.2014 and therefore it could not be competent to enter into a contract. It was a non-existent firm on 10.10.2014 when the agreement was executed. The argument advanced on behalf of the petitioner that the mistake was only superficial if at all there was any mistake and the same could have been corrected by way of rectification between the parties. The argument in our opinion cannot be sustained for the reason that this is not a case of any mistake in description of the parties or the work assigned or any terms of the contract but this is a case where a non-existing firm is said to have entered into an agreement and such agreement would result into a situation that there was no contract at all. Reference may be had to the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation Limited and another vs. Pampa Hotels Limited (2010) 5 Supreme Court Cases 425. In the above case of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation Limited (supra), the company M/s Pampa Hotels Limited got the certificate of registration by the Registrar of the Companies on 09.04.2003 and a further certificate under section 149 (3) of the Companies Act, 1956 was given by the Registrar of the Companies on 06.06.2003 certifying that the said company was entitled to commence the business. In the said case the agreement had been executed on 30.03.2002 and at that time the Company M/s Pampa Hotels Limited was neither incorporated nor had the certificate of the Registrar of Companies permitting it to commence business. In these circumstances the Supreme Court held that there was no contract and on that count held that the company was not entitled to seek arbitration under the agreement. Paragraphs 16 to 18 of the said report are reproduced below : The other submission on behalf of the petitioner is with regard to the conduct of the UPPCF somersault they took during the pendency of the writ petitions or that they were estopped from changing their stand also cannot be of any help in as much as where the agreement itself had been executed by a non-existent party, the contract would be void and there could be no estopp against law. The UPPCF could not have justified something which was void from the very inception. Thus we do not find any infirmity in the findings of the Managing Director with regard to the charge no.2 in so far as the agreement being void ab initio. However with regard to committing of fraud we are not entering into that question as there were disputed question of facts in that regard. Another argument raised by Sri Prashant Chandra, learned senior counsel for the petitioner was to the effect that the agreement could have been cancelled under the terms of the contract only upon a finding recorded on an issue mentioned in Clause 12 and Clause 19 of the agreement and not otherwise. In the present case as there is no allegation with regard to the violation of Clause 12 or Clause 19 and as such the agreement could not have been cancelled. According to Clause 12 the second party to the agreement i.e. M/s Pavan Coal Company was required to furnish a security amount by way of demand draft or bank guarantee of Rs.50 lakh within 10 days of the appointment of the coal handler. In the event of default of submitting the security of Rs.50 lakh it would be understood that the second party to the agreement is not willing to accept the work and the appointment would deemed to be cancelled automatically. Further as per Clause 19 of the agreement assessment would be made with regard to the work of the second party i.e. M/s Pavan Coal Company on quarterly basis and if it is found that the fixed target is not satisfactory, the first party i.e. UPPCF would be within its right to cancel the agreement. It is true that in the present case the agreement has not been cancelled for the breach of Clause 12 or Clause 19 but has been cancelled on three grounds one of which is that the second party which executed the agreement was non-existent as it had ceased to exist w.e.f. 29.09.2014 i.e. the date of the conversion of the partnership firm into LLP. Once the agreement has been found to have been executed by a non-existent party, the only consequence is cancellation of the same even if the terms of the agreement had not been said to be violated. We thus do not find any merit in this argument. In addition to the above we may also record here that paragraph 5 of the affidavit clearly stated that in case any information furnished by the firm is found to be incorrect then also the UPPCF would be entitled to forfeit the earnest money and cancel the EOI. We may now refer to the provisions contained under Section 47 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 which is reproduced below : We may also note our concern as to what prompted the firm to get itself converted into a limited liability partnership in the middle of a major contract under process. Despite specific query from Court, counsel for M/s Pawan Coal Company LLP (petitioner) could not did not give any satisfactory answer. The only answer given was that it was a combined decision of the partners to convert the firm into a limited liability partnership and process for the same had started much earlier but the registration was granted only on 29.09.2014 by the Registrar over which the partners had no control. For all the reasons recorded above, Writ Petition No.21028 of 2015, Pavan Coal Company LLP vs. State of U.P. & 2 others is liable to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed. In view of the above that Writ Petition No.21028 of 2015 has been dismissed, the other 2 petitions i.e. Writ Petition No.12680 of 2015, M/S A.K.A. Logistics Private Ltd. vs. State of U.P. & 5 others and Writ Petition No.58843 of 2014, M/S Sendoz Impex Ltd. vs. State of U.P. & 2 others as per statement made by learned counsel for the parties stand dismissed as withdrawn. In the facts of the case there shall be no order as to costs. We may record here that the conduct of the officers of the UPPCF has not been fair and above board. Salient features in this regard are incorporated hereunder : We direct the Chief Secretary, Government of U.P. to get an inquiry conducted into the affairs of UPPCF on the above points and on any other aspect relating to the award and cancellation of contract with M/s Pawan Coal Company, by an Officer not below the rank of Principal Secretary. The inquiry may be got concluded within 2 months of the filing of the certified copy of this order by any of the parties or its communication by the Registrar General of this Court. If in the inquiry any of the officers are found at fault appropriate departmental civil and criminal proceedings be initiated forthwith. Registrar General of this Court is directed to forward a copy of this order to the Chief Secretary, Government of U.P. within a month from today and ensure that it is duly served. Order Date :- 15.5.2015
 
pk