1. Brief facts of the case as revealed from the chargesheet are that a
 complaint was filed by the complainant Irshad Khan against Delhi
 Traffic Police, Patel Nagar Circle, MIG Chowk stating that he is the
 president of the Janta Ka Adhikar Kalyan Samiti and is employee as
 cameraman in Jan Ujala daily newspaper. He further stated that on

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 1/37
 07.03.2014, he projected himself as helper of a vehicle and they were
 going from Inderlok to Punjabi Bagh and at Rampura Metro Station,
 Jakhira Circle, police officials were checking the vehicles after stopping
 them and had also stopped the vehicle of the complainant and asked him
 to show the papers of the vehicle. The complainant further stated that he
 produced all the papers related to his vehicle and thereafter, the police
 official stated that he must show entry of the vehicle on the route and
 further stated that he accepts Rs.500/­ as entry fees for the said route and
 if the complainant wanted that his vehicle should ply on this route, then
 he should also pay entry fees of Rs.500/­ and thereafter, he can take as
 many passengers as he wants in his vehicle. The complainant further
 stated that he pleaded with the police official to reduce the amount but
 the police official persisted that he would accept only Rs.500/­ as entry
 fees otherwise he would seize his vehicle. The complainant further
 stated that thereafter, he had to pay Rs.500/­ to the police officials and he
 also noticed that police officials were stopping other vehicles also and
 was demanding entry fee from them also and therefore, extorting illegal
 money. He further stated that he recorded the said incident in his spy
 camera and had given a complaint regarding incident to T.I., Patel Nagar
 Circle on 09.04.2014 alongwith the CD but no action was taken on the
 said complaint and therefore, he was filing this complaint alongwith a
 video DVD for action against corrupt police officials. On the said
 complaint, it is stated that an enquiry was conducted and after approval
 of the senior officers, present FIR was registered and investigation was
 conducted. During investigation, IO called the complainant and in the
 presence of the complainant, video CD was played and the complainant
 identified the CD to be the same which was made by him on 07.03.2014

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 2/37
 at Rampura Metro Station near Jakhira Flyover. Thereafter, the original
 CD was seized and sealed with the seal of RRK. Certificate under section 65B Indian Evidence Act was also given by the complainant.
 Statement of complainant was also recorded. During further
 investigation, Munna also joined the investigation and produced the
 memory card of 2GB which was having the recording of the same sting
 which was conducted by Irshad Khan on 07.03.2014. It is stated that
 transcription of the video was made in the presence of Munna and
 working copy of the transcription was made and was sealed with the seal
 of RRK. The investigation was thereafter, conducted by Insp. Anand
 Singh. Accused was identified by HC Shaji Mon P.K. The duty roster
 of the accused was also collected. Accused also joined the investigation
 and was shown the video CD but he stated that he did not take any
 money from anybody and there was some editing in the video and he
 also refused to give his sample voice. Munna was also asked to give his
 sample voice but Munna also refused to give his sample voice and rather
 gave an affidavit stating that he had nothing to do with the CD and he
 had never given any money to police officials and he had never met any
 police official. He stated that when he was going to Vigilance Office
 someone gave envelope having a memory card to him and told to give
 the same at Vigilance Office. He further stated in the affidavit that he
 has no concern with the video nor he wanted to give his sample voice.
 Irshad Khan gave certificate under section 65B Indian Evidence Act
 regarding correctness of the recording and he further stated that when he
 was doing sting of SDM, Nand Nagari, his original device was broken
 by some persons and he had reported the matter to PS Nand Nagari on
 04.04.2015 and he further stated that he could not produce original

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 3/37
 device. The exhibits i.e. memory card and CD were sent to FSL for
 examination and the FSL opined that there was no indication of
 alteration in the video CD. Bribe money was not recovered as the
 amount was small and case was registered after seven months.
 Thereafter, chargesheet was filed in the court and cognizance of the
 offence under section 7 / 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act against
 accused was taken on 18.01.2019, vide order dated 08.01.2019. 2. Thereafter, charge for the offences punishable under section 7 & 13 (1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 was framed on 16.04.2018
 against accused Subhash Borker to which he pleaded not guilty and
 claimed trial. Prosecution in support of their case examined 15
 witnesses and the accused did not examine any witness in his defence. 3. PW­1 Ct. Ankush deposed that he had collected the FSL result from
 FSL Rohini alongwith the sealed exhibits and came back to PS Vigilance
 and handed over the FSL result and sealed exhibits to MHC(M). 4. PW­2 SI Krishan Pal deposed that on 07.10.2014, SHO gave him
 complaint of Irshad Khan bearing endorsement Ex.PW2/B of SHO and
 he had registered the FIR Ex.PW2/A by using computer system installed
 at PS Vigilance. Certificate under section 65B Indian Evidence Act in
 respect of FIR is Ex.PW2/C. 5. PW­3 Raghu Raj Khatana deposed that in the year 2014 he was posted
 as SHO, PS Vigilance and had received a complaint of Irshad Khan
 alongwith one CD and after preliminary enquiry and approval of the
 senior officers, the present case was registered and investigation was
 entrusted to Insp. Raj Kumar. The complaint is Ex.PW3/A. 6. During the cross­examination by ld. Counsel for accused, he stated that
 he cannot tell the exact time as to when the complaint was received or

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 4/37
 for how many days the preliminary enquiry was conducted. He further
 admitted that preliminary enquiry report was not annexed with the
 complaint Ex.PW3/A, neither the same has been show to the court.
 He further stated that he did not make any enquiry from Munna and
 Irshad Khan. However, he denied the suggestion that he gave directions
 for registration of case mechanically without due application of mind. 7. PW­4 Ct. Mahender Kumar deposed that on 07.10.2014, he was posted
 at PS Vigilance and the duty officer gave him complaint of Irshad Khan
 with endorsement of SHO and he had fed the same into the computer
 system for registration of FIR and had also issued certificate under section 65B Indian Evidence Act. 8. PW­5 HC Jai Bhagwan deposed that on 29.06.2015, he had handed over
 the attested copy of duty roster and point­wise duty chart of Patel Nagar
 Circle for 07.03.2014 Ex.PW5/A to the IO. He further deposed that as
 per the duty roster, HC Subash Borker i.e. the accused was deputed on
 07.03.2014 at Zakhira under flyover/round about Zakhira, Ganda Nala
 from 08:00 am to 10:00 pm. He further deposed that vide DD no. 3
 dated 07.03.2014 Ex.PW5/B, accused had proceeded from Traffic Circle
 for his duty. 9. PW­6 ASI Joseph deposed that he was posted at PS Vigilance on
 11.01.2016 and had collected two sealed exhibits with the seal of RRK
 from the MHC(M) and had deposited the same at FSL Rohini and receipt
 of the same was given at FSL Rohini which he gave to the MHC(M). 10. PW­7 Ct. Sikandar Mann deposed that on 02.12.2014, Irshad Khan
 came to the office of Vigilance at Barakhamba and produced a CD
 containing recording of transaction of bribe by Munna at Zakhira, before
 Insp. Raj Kumar. He further deposed that the CD was played on the

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 5/37
 office computer and thereafter, the CD was kept in sealed envelope and
 converted into pullanda and sealed with the seal of RRK and taken into
 police possession vide memo Ex.PW7/A. Thereafter, on 19.12.2014,
 one person Munna came to Vigilance office and handed over memory
 card of 2 GB black colour to the IO which were seized vide seizure
 memo Ex.PW7/B and sealed with the seal of RRK. He also identified
 the case property i.e. memory card Ex.P1 and the CD mailer envelope
 Ex.P2 as well as DVD Ex.P3. He further deposed that Irshad produced
 certificate under section 65B Indian Evidence Act on 02.12.2014 while
 he produced DVD Ex.P3. He further stated that he does not remember,
 if in his presence the transcript was read over to Munna and he had
 signed the same. He further deposed that on 30.06.2015, the IO had
 asked the accused to give his sample voice but the accused had refused
 to give his sample voice. The accused was apprised about the
 consequences of not giving the sample voice and IO had prepared the
 memo Ex.PW7/B in this regard. 11. PW­8 Dr. Bharti Bhardwaj deposed that she was working as Scientific
 Assistant, Physics since January 2000 and in the year 2014, she was
 working as Senior Scientific Officer and had examined the exhibits of
 the present case i.e. micro SD card Ex.Q1 and the DVD Ex.QCD­1. She
 further deposed that micro SD card Ex.Q1 contained one file and there
 was no indication of alteration in the video shot on the basis of frame by
 frame examination. She further deposed that video file in Ex.QCD­1
 also contained one video shot and there was no indication of alteration in
 the video shot on the basis of frame by frame examination and her report
 in this regard is Ex.PW8/A. She further deposed that the exhibits were
 thereafter sealed with her seal. She identified the memory card Ex.P1

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 6/37
 and Ex.P3 to be the same which were examined by her. 12. During the cross­examination, she deposed that there was no subject of
 video frame examination in M.Sc. (Physics) and Ph.D (Physics) and she
 has not passed any diploma or degree in video file frame examination.
 She further deposed that there was also subject computer science in
 M.Sc. (Physics) which also covers Video Frame Examination. She
 further deposed that she did not ask for the original recording device
 before forming her view and framing her report. She further stated that
 the formats of recording of CD and SD card are different. She further
 stated that she had not stated in her report Ex.PW8/A as to whether
 the recording was done originally/primarily in the micro SD card.
 She further admitted it to be correct that the contents can be pasted
 in micro SD card. She further admitted that the lab i.e. FSL, Rohini
 was not notified under section 79A of Information and Technology Act
 at the time when she gave her report Ex.PW8/A, though she stated that
 the same was notified at the time of recording her testimony. 13. PW­9 S.K. Tewari, DCP is the sanctioning authority who stated that he
 had received a request from DCP, Vigilance alongwith FIR and
 documents including statement of witnesses, draft chargesheet, refusal
 memos of accused to give his sample voices etc. and that PW­9 was the
 disciplinary authority of the accused and was competent to remove him
 from his services. He further stated that he perused all the documents
 and found sufficient incriminating material for according prosecution
 sanction and thus, granted sanction vide order dated 12.07.2017
 Ex.PW9/A. 14. During the cross­examination on behalf of the accused, he stated that he
 had also received list of documents and list of witnesses alongwith the

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 7/37
 request letter for grant of sanction. He also admitted that copy of one
 affidavit of one Munna in which Munna had stated that he had no
 connection with the present case was also sent to him. He further stated
 that he did not verify as to which vehicle was used by the complainant in
 respect of which the demand was made. He further admitted that the
 document Ex.PW9/D1 dated 28.10.2017 bears his signature as per which
 the accused was exonerated in the departmental enquiry. 15. PW­10 ASI Shaji Mon deposed that on 07.03.2014, he was shown the
 recording contained in CD in the Traffic Circle and PW­10 found that a
 person was looking like Subhash Borker and was talking about challan
 and money. He further deposed that HC Subhash Borker was posted at
 Patel Nagar Traffic Circle on 07.03.2014. The CD annexed with the
 judicial file was played on the laptop and after seeing the same, PW­10
 submits that accused is visible in this recording taking some money from
 a person and the DVD is Ex.P5. During cross­examination, he stated that
 he does not remember whether the CD was in sealed condition or not. 16. PW­11 SI Sagar Singh deposed that on 11.01.2016, he was working as
 MSI, PS Vigilance and exhibits of the present case were given by him to
 HC Joseph for depositing at FSL Rohini and after depositing all the
 exhibits in FSL Rohini, HC Joseph gave him copy of acknowledgement
 of FSL. Copy of register no. 21 containing the road certificate is
 Ex.PW11/A. He further deposed that on 19.12.2014, the case property
 was deposited in Malkhana by the IO and the copy of the register
 containing the relevant entries is Ex.PW11/B. 17. PW­12 Insp. Raj Kumar is the IO who deposed that on 07.10.2014 after
 registration of the FIR, the investigation of this case was assigned to him
 and he issued notice to the complainant. Complainant Irshad Khan came

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 8/37
 to the Vigilance office on 02.12.2014 and produced a CD which was
 played on the office computer in the presence of Ct. Sikandar Mann and
 thereafter, kept in an envelope and sealed with the seal of RRK and
 seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW7/A. He further deposed that on
 19.12.2014, Munna came to Vigilance office and produced one memory
 card and the recording in the memory card was played on the laptop and
 a working copy of the same was made and thereafter, the memory card
 was sealed with the seal of RRK and seized vide seizure memo
 Ex.PW7/B. He further stated that on 19.12.2014, transcription
 Ex.PW12/A of the recording was also seen by him and shown to Munna
 and signed by him. 18. PW­13 Munna Ansari did not support the case of the prosecution
 and was declared hostile and deposed that he has nothing to do with the
 present case and on receipt of notice from Vigilance, he visited
 Vigilance office at Barakhamba and when he was marking his
 attendance in register at reception, one person met him and asked him as
 to whether he was going to meet Sahab on which he replied in
 affirmative on which that person gave him one envelope to handover the
 same to Sahab which PW­13 had handed over to Sahab. He further
 stated that he was asked to sign some papers which he signed. He
 further stated that he had told the concerned official that he had no
 concern with the sting operation and further requested him not to
 send notice. 19. PW­13 was cross­examined by Ld. Addl. PP for the State. During the
 cross­examination by Ld. Addl. PP for the State, he denied the
 suggestion that at the reception of the Vigilance office no person met
 him or gave him any envelope to hand over to any Sahab. He further

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 9/37
 deposed that he did not enquired about name of the person who had
 given envelope to him. He denied the suggestion that on 19.12.2014, he
 had produced one memory card of 2 GB capacity. He also denied the
 suggestion that memory card was played in his presence on the laptop or
 that the same was sealed and seized in his presence. Though, he
 admitted his signature on the seizure memo of the memory card. He
 further stated that the contents on the seizure memo were also written
 when he had put his signature. PW­13 also admitted his signature on the
 transcript Ex.PW12/A though he stated that he was not aware about the
 contents of the same. He further admitted that he knew Irshad Khan but
 he further stated that he does not know as to what is the profession of
 Irshad Khan. He also failed to identify the accused in the court. He
 denied the suggestion that accused Subhash Borker is a traffic police
 official who had demanded bribe from him on 07.03.2014 while
 Mohd. Irshad was present with him and on the demand of accused,
 he had given Rs.500/­ to him at Zakhira Flyover. He failed to
 identify the memory card ExP1 and stated that he had seen the
 memory card for the first time in the court. PW­13 has also been
 shown the DVD containing the video during his testimony but he
 stated that he has no concern with the DVD and he cannot say
 anything about the contents of the recording. He further stated that
 on 07.03.2014, he was present at his house and he was not working as
 driver at that time. 20. During the cross­examination by Ld. Defence counsel, he admitted his
 signature on the affidavit Ex.PW13/DA wherein he has stated that he has
 no concern with the present case. 21. PW­14 Irshad Khan stated that he was running Tansport Business and

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 10/37
 was also running an NGO namely Janta Ka Adhikar Kalyan Samiti. He
 further deposed that when he was sitting in his office when one person
 namely Imtiaz came to his office and gave him one CD and asked him to
 take action against police official. He further stated that he asked as to
 why Imtiaz himself was not going to police whereupon he stated that
 PW­14 had already filed several cases against the police officials and
 therefore, he wanted Irshad Khan to file the same. He further stated that
 he had seen the contents of the CD by playing on the computer and
 prepared a complaint Ex.PW3/A and sent to police to take action against
 traffic police official. He further stated that he had produced one CD
 which was seized vide memo Ex.PW7/A when he was asked to identify
 the accused and to check if the person present in the court was visible in
 the CD, Irshad Khan stated that accused was not present in the court and
 thus, failed to identify the accused in the court. However, he identified
 the DVD Ex.P3 and further stated that he cannot identify the person
 visible in the CD. 22. As he was not supporting the prosecution case, therefore, he was
 cross­examined by Ld. Addl. PP for the State. During the cross­
 examination by Ld. Addl. PP, he denied that no person with the name
 Imtiaz had come to his office and had not given any CD to him. He
 further stated that he had told the police that Imtiaz had recorded the
 sting but police officials told him that they would not record the name of
 the original complainant in the complaint as police officials may
 pressurize the complainant. He further stated that they told him that they
 will call him separately. He also admitted that he had not mentioned the
 name of Imtiaz in his complaint Ex.PW3/A. However, he had taken
 Imtiaz alongwith him to the police station/Vigilance Branch where his

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 11/37
 statement was recorded. He denied the suggestion that he had not taken
 Imtiaz with him in the Vigilance Office or that he had not mentioned the
 name of Imtiaz in his complaint as no person by the name of Imtiaz had
 produced the DVD to PW­14 in his office or that he himself had
 recorded the incident in the DVD. PW­14 admitted his signature on the
 certificate and same is Ex.PW14/B. However, he stated that the police
 had obtained the signature of Imtiaz also on similar papers. He also
 admitted his signature on the certificate under section 65B Indian
 Evidence Act Ex.PW14/C and stated that Ex.PW14/B and
 Ex.PW14/C were provided by police official and he had only signed
 the same. He further stated that he does not know English language. He
 denied the suggestion that the certificate Ex.PW14/B and Ex.PW14/C
 were not provided to him by the police and further stated that he had
 given all the documents in Hindi language. He further stated that he had
 not mentioned the name of Imtiaz in his complaint Ex.PW3/A because
 he was apprehensive that if he would disclose his name, police will
 harass him. He further stated that he does not know any person with the
 name Munna. He denied the suggestion that on 07.03.2014 at
 Zakhira Flyover when he alongwith Munna were on vehicle, accused
 Subhash Borker had demanded bribe from Munna who gave
 Rs.500/­ to him as bribe and he had captured the incident in a spy
 button camera. He denied the suggestion that Munna was working with
 him on his vehicle and further stated that Imtiaz was working on his
 vehicle at that time. He denied the suggestion that he had produced the
 memory card before the police. He also denied the suggestion that the
 memory card Ex.P1 was attached with the spy camera with which he had
 done the sting operation of the accused on 07.03.2014 at Zakhira

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 12/37
 Flyover. 23. During the cross­examination by Ld. Defence counsel, he deposed that
 the complaint Ex.PW3/A was got typed in the office of PS Vigilance
 and the complaint which he had sent to Vigilance Branch is not
 Ex.PW3/A. He further deposed that police never asked him for the
 registration certificate of any vehicle. 24. PW­15 Insp. Anand Singh deposed that on 07.04.2015, investigation of
 the present case was assigned to him. He further deposed that the
 complainant Mohd. Irshad told that original device used in the sting
 operation in the present case has been snatched from him and he could
 not produce the same. He further stated that video recording was played
 and HC Shahji Mon identified the accused. He further stated that he
 collected the copy of the Chittha Ex.PW5/A from the concerned traffic
 circle. He further stated that on 30.06.2015, he asked the accused to give
 his sample voice but the accused refused to give his sample voice and in
 this regard memo is Ex.PW7/C. He further stated that the complainant
 produced certificate under section 65B Indian Evidence Act i.e.
 Ex.PW14/C pertaining to micro chip which was used in the sting
 operation and that he had sent the CD and micro chip to FSL, Rohini.
 He further deposed that after receipt of FSL result Ex.PW8/A, request
 for prosecution sanction against accused was sent and prosecution
 sanction Ex.PW9/A was received. He further stated that he had
 signed the transcript of the recording Ex.PW12/A which was already
 prepared by Ins. Raj Kumar. During cross­examination by Ld.
 Defence counsel, he admitted that he had not mentioned in the memo
 Ex.PW7/C that refusal to give sample voice would go against the
 accused. He further admitted that it is not mentioned in Ex.PW7/C in the

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 13/37
 same manner. He further stated that he had prepared the Ex.PW14/C
 and that handwritten portion in the ExPW14/C is in his handwriting. 25. After completion of the prosecution evidence, statement of accused was
 recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C. wherein all the incriminating
 evidence was put to the accused which he denied to be false and
 incorrect and further stated that he is innocent and has been falsely
 implicated in the present case. 26. Thereafter, I have heard Sh. Manoj Kumar Garg, Ld. Addl. PP for the
 State and Sh. Yogesh Verma, Ld. Counsel for the accused. I have also
 gone through the case file carefully. 27. Ld. Addl. PP for the State has argued that FSL expert PW­8 Dr. Bharti
 Bhardwaj has deposed that there was indication of alteration in the video
 shot on the basis of frame by frame examination and further accused has
 refused to give his sample voice for comparison with recording of sting.
 It is not disputed that the accused was on duty on the alleged day of the
 incident on 07.03.2014 near Rampura Metro Station, Zakhira and he has
 been identified in the recording by PW­10 ASI Shaji Mon and further
 accused is clearly visible in the audio­video recording played during the
 examination of witnesses. It has been deposed by the prosecution
 witnesses namely PW­7 Sikandar Mann and PW­12 Insp. Raj Kumar
 that SD card and CD containing audio­video recording was produced by
 Munna and Irshad Khan. PW­9 S.K. Tewari had proved the prosecution
 sanction against the accused. PW­13 Munna and PW­14 Irshad Khan
 had admitted their signatures on the documents. Finally, it was argued
 that there was sufficient incriminating evidence against accused and
 prayed for his conviction. CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 14/37
 SANCTION : 28. Ld. Defence counsel has argued that the sanctioning authority has not
 applied his mind independently and the sanction was granted
 mechanically as sanctioning authority had not seen the audio­video
 footage before grant of sanction and therefore, same also reveals non­
 application of mind by the sanctioning authority. 29. On the other hand, Ld. Addl. PP for the State has argued that no
 prejudice has been shown to have been caused to the accused. As far as
 the fact that the sanctioning authority had not gone through the audio­
 video recording is concerned, in the judgment of State Vs R.C. Anand
 & Anr. , (2004) 4 SCC 615, it was held that : 30. In view of the above case of R.C. Anand, it is immaterial if the

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 15/37
 sanctioning authority has not gone through the audio­video recording
 before according sanction, as the same are matters of proof during trial. 31. Also, as regards application of mind by sanctioning authority in 2013
 (8) SCC 119 State of Maharashtra through CBI Vs Mahesh Jain ,
 following principles were culled out :­
 "14.1 It is incumbent on the prosecution to prove that the
 valid sanction has been granted by the sanctioning
 authority after being satisfied that a case for sanction
 has been made out. 14.2 The sanction order may expressly show that the
 sanctioning authority has perused the material placed
 before it and, after consideration of the
 circumstances, has granted sanction for prosecution.
 14.3 The prosecution may prove by adducing the
 evidence that the material was placed before the
 sanctioning authority and its satisfaction was arrived
 at upon perusal of the material placed before it. 14.4 Grant of sanction is only an administrative function
 and the sanctioning authority is required to prime
 facie reach the satisfaction that relevant facts would
 constitute the offence. 14.5 The adequacy of material placed before the
 sanctioning authority cannot be gone into by the
 court as it does not sit in appeal over the sanction
 order. 14.6 If the sanctioning authority has perused all the
 materials placed before it and some of them have not
 been proved that would not vitiate the order of
 sanction. 14.7 The order of sanction is a prerequisite as it is
 intended to provide a safeguard to a public servant
 against frivolous and vexatious litigants, but
 simultaneously an order of sanction should not be
 construed in a pedantic manner and there should
 not be a hypertechnical approach to test its validity." It was further held that : Also, flimsy technicalities cannot be allowed to become tools in the
 hands of accused. 33. Also in Mansukhlal Vithaldas Chauhan Vs State of Gujarat , decided
 on 03.09.1997 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, it has been
 observed that : 34. There is nothing on record to suggest that the sanctioning authority was
 under any obligation or compulsion to grant sanction or had not applied
 his independent mind. 35. Also, in CBI Vs Ashok Kumar Aggarwal , decided on 31.10.2013 by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it has been held that :­
 "(a) The prosecution must send the entire
 relevant record to the sanctioning authority
 including the FIR, disclosure statements,
 statements of witnesses, recovery memos, draft
 charge sheet and all other relevant material. The record so sent should also contain the

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 18/37
 material/document, if any, which may tilt the
 balance in favour of the accused and on the
 basis of which, the competent authority may
 refuse sanction. (b) The authority itself has to do complete and
 conscious scrutiny of the whole record so
 produced by the prosecution independently
 applying its mind and taking into consideration
 all the relevant facts before grant of sanction
 while discharging its duty to give or withheld
 the sanction. (c) The power to grant sanction is to be
 exercised strictly keeping in mind the public
 interest and the protection available to the
 accused against whom the sanction is sought. (d) The order of sanction should make it
 evidence that the authority had been aware of
 all relevant facts/materials and had applied its
 mind to all the relevant material. (e) In every individual case, the prosecution
 has to establish and satisfy the court by leading
 evidence that the entire relevant facts had been
 placed before the sanctioning authority and the
 authority had applied its mind on the same and
 that the sanction had been granted in
 accordance with law." 36. Certainly, it is the duty of the prosecution to send entire record of the
 case to the sanctioning authority and the emphasis of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the above case is also that the record should be
 sent alongwith material and document that may tilt the balance in
 favour of the accused and on the basis of which competent authority
 may refuse the sanction. Though, Ld. Counsel for the accused has
 argued that the entire record was not sent but he has failed to show as to
 which of the documents which the prosecution had not sent, would have
 tilted the balance in favour of the accused. None of the document which

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 19/37
 were not sent to the Sanctioning Authority could have formed basis for
 refusing sanction. Also, how the balance would have tilted in his favour,
 if the sanctioning authority would have perused the audio­video
 recording or the audio recording of the conversation between the
 complainant and the accused. The accused has not been able to point out
 any document or material which if would have been put before the
 Sanctioning Authority (but was not sent to Sanctioning Authority by the
 IO) might have tilted the balance in favour of the accused and on the
 basis of which it can be said that if the said document would have been
 brought to the notice of the Sanctioning Authority, he would not have
 granted sanction for prosecution of the accused. Moreover, no question
 regarding non­perusal of audio­video footages has been put to the
 witness PW­9, Sanctioning Authority during his cross­examination. The
 accused has also not been able to show that the discretion vested in the
 Sanctioning Authority was affected by any extraneous consideration or
 that the mind of sanctioning authority was under pressure from any
 corner. 37. Also, in Ashok Kumar Tshering Bhutia Vs State of Sikkim , 2011 (3)
 LRC 93 (SC) on the point of sanction, it was held as follows: 38. The object behind the requirement of grant of sanction to prosecute a
 public servant under the POC Act are designed as a check on frivolous
 and unscrupulous attempts to prosecute honest public servant for acts
 arising out of due discharge of their duties. Section 19(1) of the POC Act
 are mandatory and forbid courts from taking cognizance of any offence
 punishable U/S 7,10,11,13 & 15 of the POC Act against public servants
 except with the previous sanction of the competent authority. 39. Also, this court is of the view that accused failed to show that failure of
 justice had occasioned by any error, omission or irregularity in the
 sanction. Moreover, as regards errors, omission or irregularity in the
 sanction order including competency of the authority to grant sanction, it
 has been held in " State of Bihar Vs. Raj Mangal Pandey , 2014 (II)
 SCC 388" as under : 40. PW­9 has denied the suggestion that he had not applied his mind.
 There is nothing established on record to suggest that any draft sanction
 order was placed before competent authority before grant of sanction and
 therefore, it cannot be said that there is any non­application of mind. CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 22/37 41. In view of the above discussion, it cannot be said that the order of
 sanction for prosecution of accused is not valid or illegal. ADMISSIBILITY OF MEMORY CARD EX.P1 AND CD EX.P3 AND
THE REPORT OF FORENSIC EXPERT : 42. It is argued that the report Ex.PW8/A cannot be read in evidence for
 want of notification under section 79A I.T. Act. 43. As far as the argument that the FSL was not notified under section 79A of I.T. Act is concerned, the electronic evidence is explained in Section
 29 ­A IPC :­ The words "electronic record" shall have the meaning
 assigned to them in clause (t) of Sub­section (1) of section 2 of the
 Information Technology Act, 2002. 44. Sec. 2 (1)(t) I.T. Act : 45. The issue as to whether in absence of notification under section 79A of
 Information Technology Act, the report given by an expert from FSL,
 New Delhi regarding examination of electronic evidence, would be
 admissible in evidence, is a legal issue. 46. The relevant law provisions in this regard Section 79 A of I.T. Act was
 enacted in the year 2000, which came into force w.e.f. 17.10.2000. This
 provision provides that the Central Government may for the purposes of
 providing expert opinion on electronic form evidence, specify, by
 notification, any department, body or agency as an examiner of
 electronic evidence. 47. Moreover, the provision under section 79A I.T. Act or provision under section 45A Evidence Act do not provide that in absence of such
 notification, opinion based on scientific examination given by a person
 well versed or skilled in such science, would not be admissible in
 evidence. Unless such bar is created in law, it cannot be read as an
 extension of section 79A of I.T. Act, that the report given by any other
 authority/lab would be inadmissible in evidence. Therefore, the court
 does not find any occasion to go into the question of intention of
 legislature while using the term 'may' in Section 79 A. 48. Hon'ble High Court at Madras in the case of K. Ramajayam Vs
 Inspector of Police, Chennai 2016 Cr.LJ 1542, on the issue of Section
 79A of I.T. Act, observed that­

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 24/37
 "It is axiomatic that the opinion of an expert, which is
 relevant under Section 45 of the Indian Evidence Act,
 1872, when accepted by the Court graduates into the
 opinion of the Court. The Central Government has not
 yet issued notification under Section 79A of the
 Information Technology Act, 2000 on account of which Section 45A of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 remains
 mute. Therefore, the methods evolved by Kala (PW­ 23)
 and Pushparani (PW­24), Scientific Officers of the
 Tamil Nadu Forensic Sciences Department to analyze
 and give their opinions on the electronic data, are
 correct and cannot be faulted." 49. It is also pertinent to mention that the Information Technology Act was
 enacted in the year 2000, after much advancement in the use of
 electronic data, transactions being carried out by means of electronic
 data and other means of electronic communication. It was so enacted to
 provide safeguards necessary for legal recognition to such transactions.
 However, recorded conversations were being produced during criminal
 trial of a case since long and much prior to 2000 and same were duly
 relied upon by the courts, subject to certain precautionary measures, for
 the purpose of giving decision in such cases. 50. Also, section 293 Cr.P.C. refers to certain government scientific experts
 and provides that report of such experts may be used as evidence even
 without calling such expert to formally prove their reports before the
 court. Thus, report of certain experts were given special status and were
 admissible without formally calling such expert in the witness box to
 prove the same. In the year 2005, legislature added one more category in section 293 (4) Cr.P.C. to include any other government scientific expert
 specified by notification by the Central Government for this purpose.
 This addition took effect from 23.06.2006. Thereafter, w.e.f. 27.10.2009,
 legislature again came up with section 45A Indian Evidence Act, which

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 25/37
 provided that opinion of examiner of electronic evidence referred in Section 79 A of I.T. Act shall be a relevant fact in respect of any
 information stored in any computer resource or any other electronic
 devise. Thus, it is clear that legislature has been taking steps one after
 another for the purpose of due legal recognition of electronic evidence in
 formal manner. 51. It cannot be said that prior to 2009, opinion of any scientific expert qua
 recorded conversations was irrelevant or not admissible in any court
 proceedings. Section 45 of Evidence Act in itself is enabling provision to
 accept opinion of such expert in the court proceedings. Obviously, the
 courts over the passage of time, have evolved certain precautionary
 measures for the purpose of appreciation of expert opinion. Notification
 under section 79A of I.T. Act may further lay down a basis to accept
 report of such notified expert under Section 293(4)(g) Cr.P.C., without
 formal proof of the same. It is also to be appreciated that other experts
 viz. handwriting experts have to prove their opinion or report before the
 court, after appearing as witness. Their opinion/reports are evaluated and
 appreciated by court on merits rather than being rejected on the grounds
 that they are not notified experts. As the CFSL was not notified under section 79A of the I.T. Act, the formal proof of report of such experts
 cannot be dispensed with under section 293(4)(g) of Cr.P.C. and the
 prosecution would have to prove their report by calling such experts as
 witnesses. 52. In the present case, PW­8 appeared in the court for her evidence and
 proved her report and was subjected to lengthy cross­examination also
 by the defence. She adopted prevalent scientific instrument and method
 of audiography and spectrography. Her opinion/report is based on

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 26/37
 scientific examination, rather than personal opinion. Therefore, the same
 cannot be discarded or be said to be inadmissible for want of notification
 under section 79A of I.T. Act. 53. Ld. Counsel for the accused has further argued that the certificate under section 65B of Indian Evidence Act Ex.PW14/B and Ex.PW14/C are
 not as per law and as prosecution has not produced the certificate as
 required under Section 65B(4) of the Evidence Act in respect of CD
 Ex.P3 and micro chip Ex.P1, therefore, the CD and micro chip are not
 admissible in evidence and no oral evidence or opinion of Examiner of
 electronic evidence on CD Ex.P3 or micro chip Ex.P1 can be taken in
 view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Anvar P.V.
 Vs P.K. Basheer . For the same reason, the transcript Ex.PW12/A and
 FSL report Ex.PW8/A are also inadmissible, as they are derivatives of
 the CD Ex.P3 and micro chip Ex.P1, which itself is inadmissible. 54. In case titled as Anvar P.V. Vs P.K. Basheer , AIR 2015, SC 180, it
 has been observed that : Under Section 65B(4) of the Evidence Act, if it is
 desired to give a statement in any proceedings
 pertaining to an electronic record, it is permissible
 provided the following conditions are satisfied : It is further clarified that the person need only to state
 in the certificate that the same is to the best of his
 knowledge and belief. Most importantly, such a
 certificate must accompany the electronic record like
 computer printout, Compact Disc (CD), Video
 Compact Disc (VCD), pen drive, etc. pertaining to
 which a statement is sought to be given in evidence,
 when the same is produced in evidence. All these
 safeguards are taken to ensure the source and
 authenticity, which are the two hallmarks pertaining
 to electronic record sought to be used as evidence.
 Electronic records being more susceptible to
 tampering, alteration, transposition, excision, etc.
 without such safeguards, the whole trial based on
 proof of electronic records can lead to travesty of
 justice. Only if the electronic record is duly produced in
 terms of Section 65B of the Evidence Act, the question
 would arise as to the genuineness thereof and in that
 situation, resort can be made to Section 45A­ Opinion
 of examiner of electronic evidence. The Evidence Act does not contemplate or permit the
 proof of an electronic record by oral evidence if
 requirements under Section 65B of the Evidence Act
 are not complied with, as the law now stands in
 India." 55. The above judgment was again discussed in the case Shafhi
 Mohammad Vs State of Himachal Pradesh , in Special Leave Petition
 (Crl.) No.2303 of 2017 by Hon'ble Supreme Court and vide order dated
 30.01.2018 the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as follows : 56. Thus, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the above case of Shafhi
 Mohammad, after discussing the judgment in Anvar P.V. Case held
 that requirement of certificate under section 65(B) is not mandatory and
 applicability of the requirement of certificate being procedural can be
 relaxed by the court wherever interest of justice so demands. Though,
 one of the situation where requirement of certificate can be dispensed
 with as discussed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the above judgment
 is where electronic evidence is produced by a party who is not in
 possession of original device, then in such case applicability of Section
 63 and 65 of the Evidence Act cannot be held to be excluded. However,
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has not stated that it is only in case where a

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 31/37
 party is not in possession of original device that the requirement of
 certificate under section 65B (H) can be dispensed with and thus, person
 producing electronic device being not in possession of original device is
 one of the instances wherein the requirement of the certificate being
 procedural can be relaxed. The Hon'ble Supreme Court categorically
 held that the requirement of certificate under section 65B Evidence Act
 is not always mandatory and the applicability of the requirement of
 certificate under section 65B can be relaxed whenever interest of justice
 so justifies. Therefore, in view of the above judgment, let us analyze
 the evidence brought on record in the present case to see whether
 the requirement of certificate under section 65B(H) should be
 relaxed in the present case in the interest of justice. 57. The requirement of certificate under section 65B Evidence Act is to rule
 out any tampering with the electronic evidence produced on record.
 Source and authenticity are the two hallmarks pertaining to electronic
 record. The CD in the present case was examined in the FSL to check
 the authenticity in the audio­video recording. The findings of the FSL
 expert in report dated 25.05.2016 regarding authenticity of the audio­
 video recording being relevant is reproduced as follows : ­
 "1. On examination of micro SD Card, Exhibit­Q1 it
 was found that it contains one video file. The video
 file contains one identified video shot & there is no
 indication of alteration in the video shot on the
 basis of frame by frame examination. 2. On examination of video file in Exhibit­QCD­1 it
 was found that content of video is similar to the
 content of video in Exhibit­Q1 containing one
 identified video shot. There is no indication of
 alteration in the video shot on the basis of frame by
 frame examination." CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 32/37 58. In view of the FSL report Ex.PW8/A, the authenticity of the video shot
 in CD Ex.P3 and micro SD card Ex.P1 is established qua video but there
 is no report regarding the fact as to whether there was any alteration in
 the audio in the audio­video recording. The video shot has been
 examined frame by frame for ruling out any possibility of attention in the
 video but no spectrographic test has been carried out to rule out any
 possibility of alteration in the audio in the audio­video recording. The
 recording in the CD and micro chip are audio­video recording and the
 possibility of alteration in the audio as well as video was required to be
 ruled out. 59. As regards source, the complainant has stated that he had not prepared
 the CD Ex.P3 and according to him the said CD was prepared by Imtiaz.
 Even the said sting was conducted by Imtiaz as per the statement of
 complainant PW­14. In such circumstances, the source of CD Ex.P3 has
 not been proved on record. As far as micro chip Ex.P1 is concerned,
 PW­13 Sh. Munna has stated that he was handed over micro chip by
 somebody else and thus, micro chip Ex.P1 did not belong to him as per
 his statement on oath. The original recording device has not been
 produced by the complainant and has not been seized by the IO. 60. Also, PW­15 Insp. And Singh has stated that he had only signed the
 transcript which was already prepared by Insp. Raj Kumar but Insp. Raj
 Kumar has not stated in his statement that he had prepared the transcript
 Ex.PW12/A. He has only stated that the transcript of the recording was
 seen by him and was also shown to Munna. In such circumstances, it
 has not been proved on record that who has prepared the transcript
 Ex.PW12/A. The source of transcript is thus, also not proved on record. CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 33/37
 As the source of transcript Ex.PW12/A as well as micro chip Ex.P1 and
 CD Ex.P3 has not been proved on record, therefore, the requirements of
 certificate under section 65B Indian Evidence Act cannot be dispensed
 with in the present case. Two certificates under section 65B Indian
 Evidence Act of the complainant Ex.PW14/B and Ex.PW14/C are
 available on record. However, as the complainant has disowned the CD
 and the micro chip, he was not competent to issue certificate under section 65B Indian Evidence Act and thus, certificate under section 65B Indian Evidence Act Ex.PW14/B and Ex.PW14/C available on record
 are not as per law. As the source as well as authenticity, the two
 hallmarks pertaining to electronic record are not established, therefore,
 the memory card Ex.P1 and CD Ex.P3 and transcript Ex.PW12/A are
 held to be inadmissible in evidence. DEMAND & ACCEPTANCE : WHETHER PROVED ? 61. It is settled law that the prosecution has to prove the charge beyond
 reasonable doubt under the Prevention of Corruption Act also, like any
 other criminal offence and the accused has to be considered innocent till
 it is established by cogent evidence regarding demand and acceptance of
 illegal gratification which are vital ingredients. In State of Kerala &
 Anr. Vs C.P. Rao (2011) 6 SCC 450, Hon'ble Supreme Court held that
 mere recovery by itself would not prove the charge against the accused
 and in absence of any evidence to prove payment of bribe or to show that
 the accused had voluntarily accepted the money knowing it to be bribe,
 conviction cannot be sustained. 62. In B. Jay Raj Vs State of Andhra Pradesh, (2014) 13 SCC 55,
 Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that mere possession and recovery of

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 34/37
 currency notes from an accused without proof of demand would not
 establish an offence under section 7 as well as 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the
 Act and it was further observed that in the absence of proof of demand
 for illegal gratification, the use of corrupt or illegal means or abuse of
 position as a public servant to obtain any valuable thing or pecuniary
 advantage cannot be held to be proved. The proof of demand, thus, has
 been held to be an indispensable essentiality and of permeating mandate
 for an offence under Section 7 and 13 of the Act. It was further held that
 in the absence of proof of demand, such legal presumption under section
 20 of the Act would also not arise. It was held that such proof of
 acceptance of illegal gratification could follow only if there is proof of
 demand. 63. In P. Satyanarayana Murthy Vs District Inspector of Police & Anr. ,
 2015 AIAR (Criminal) 1008, Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that : 64. The complainant has not deposed about any specific words being
 spoken by the accused to indicate demand, it has not been proved on
 record that the accused had demanded or accepted any illegal
 gratification from the complainant. The two star witnesses of the
 prosecution PW­13 and PW­14 have turned hostile and have not

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 35/37
 supported the case of the prosecution. They have not deposed about any
 demand made by the accused or any amount being accepted by the
 accused. Despite extensive cross­examination by Ld. Addl. PP, nothing
 has come on record to prove that the accused had made any demand or
 had accepted any illegal gratification from Munna. In fact, Munna has
 stated that he during the investigation itself had given an affidavit that he
 was not concerned with the present case and that he had never given any
 bribe to anybody. The said affidavit was filed by the IO alongwith the
 chargesheet and is Ex.PW13/DA. He has clearly stated that he has never
 met the police official who can be seen in the video. He further stated
 that he does not own any vehicle. No document was seized by the IO
 regarding the vehicle which was plying on the said route and if the
 registration number of the vehicle which was being plied allegedly by
 Munna and the route of the said vehicle has not been stated in the
 chargesheet. The IO has not even seized any document regarding
 vehicle which was plying on the route and therefore, no motive for
 demand has been established on record. The FIR was registered on
 07.10.2014 and the CD was seized after seven months. The delay in
 registration of FIR and seizing the CD has not been explained in the
 chargesheet. Moreover, as per the complaint the demand was of
 Rs.500/­ whereas in the audio­video recording the demand was of
 Rs.600/­ and thus, the complaint is totally at variance with the audio­
 video recording. Also in the complaint, it is stated that the concerned
 police official had stated that after the demand of bribe money, the driver
 can take as many passengers as he wants. But as per the transcript, the
 carriage was containing slipper (Chappal), thus, the transcript
 Ex.PW12/A and complaint Ex.PW3/A are totally at variance. To

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 36/37
 convict the accused in such circumstances would be negation of justice. 65. The prosecution has thus, failed to establish its case and to bring home
 the guilt of the accused because of the following grounds : 66. If the evidence adduced by the prosecution is of such a nature that room
 still exists for taking the view that every reasonable possibility of his
 innocence has not been excluded, the accused would be entitled to
 benefit of doubt. Therefore, in view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of
 the view that prosecution failed to prove its case against the accused for
 the offences under section 7 & 13 (1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act
 1988 beyond reasonable doubt, so the accused Subhash Borker is given
 benefit of doubt and therefore, acquitted of above offences. 67. His bail bond is cancelled and surety discharged. 68. File be consigned to record room. Announced in the open court KIRAN by KIRAN BANSAL on this 21st November, 2019. BANSAL Date: 2019.11.27
 12:10:54 +0530

 (Kiran Bansal)
 Special Judge
 (PC Act) (ACB­01)
 Central District, Rouse Avenue
 Court Complex, Delhi

CC No.98/19 State Vs Subhash Borker Pages: 37/37