1. M/s Pariston Exim, Rajkot had imported a total quantity of 3917 kgs, of mulberry silk from Hong Kong and filed three Bills of Entry on, 09.04.1997 for clearing the same. Bills of Entry Nos.18235, 18236 and 18237 covered 1284 kgs., 1294 kgs., and 1339 kgs., respectively. The import was under DEEC scheme. The goods were supplied by M/s. Simehan Trading Co., Hong Kong (STC, for short), ppellants in Appeal No. C/236/2001. The Commissioner of Customs, Chennai received, information from DGFT, Rajkot to the effect that the relevant Advance Licences (DEEC) had been cancelled prior to 23.05.1997. The above goods covered under the three bills of entry were seized, on 31.05.1997. Thereafter, the Commissioner received a representation from M/s. Worldwide Trading Est. Pvt. Ltd., Lucknow (WT.L, for short), appellants in Appeal No. C/235/2001, which was, to the effect that the seized mulberry silk weighing 2633 kgs. covered under the second and third bills of entry had been transferred to them by M/s. STC and, therefore, they (WTL) should be permitted to clear the same. This claim of M/s. WTL was rejected by the Commissioner, who, in adjudication of show-cause notice dated 20.11.1997 issued after DRI investigation into the imports, confiscated the entire quantity (3917 kgs.) of raw silk valued at Rs. 58.5 lakhs, with option for redemption on payment of a fine of Rs. 30 lakhs. He also imposed a penalty of Rs. 1 lakh, on the proprietor of M/s Pariston Exim, Rajkot. After this order was passed by the Commissioner, he received a report from M/S. STC on 1.8.04.1998, wherein the suppliers of the goods sought permission to take back the goods to Hong Kong or to sell it to any other buyer in India. The Commissioner informed M/s. STC feat nothing could be done in the matter at that stage and they were at liberty to go in appeal to the Tribunal against the above order dated 06.03.1998. Subsequently, on 16.06.1998, the goods were sold in auction for a total price of Rs. 14,20,848/-. M/s. WTL and M/s. STC filed appeals against the above order of the Commissioner, which were disposed of by this Tribunal remanding the case for de nova consideration by the Commissioner vide Final Order No. 1822 & 1823/1999 dated 27.07.1999 is Appeal Nos.C/592 & 1362/1998 [2001 (136) E.L.T. 88 (Tri-Chennai)]. After noting that the goods had already been disposed of through auction, the Tribunal directed the Commissioner to consider the claims of both the parties for sale proceeds of the goods. The Commissioner was to pass a detailed order in the light of the apex court's judgments in East India Commercial Co. Ltd. v. Collector of Customs and Union of India v. Sampath Raj Dugar and the Tribunal 's decision in Savitri Electronics Co. v. Collector . Pursuant to the above remand, the Commissioner heard, both parties and passed order dated 19.03.2001 rejecting their claim for sale proceeds. Hence the present appeals by M/s. STC and. M/s. WTL. 2. The "limited point" framed by learned Commissioner for consideration in the impugned order was whether the claims of M/s. WTL and M/s. STC could be considered in the light of the Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgment in Sampath Raj Dugar case and whether the goods were liable for confiscation under the Customs Act . For deciding the point, learned Commissioner went into the chronology of relevant events., which he noted as under: 03.02.1997
 
 
 
 
 

Bills
 raised by M/s. Surchan Trading Ltd. on M/s. World wode Trading Est. Pvt. Ltd. 03.02.1997
 
 
 
 
 

Good
 reached Madras harbour on or about 
 
 
 

20.02.1997
 
 
 
 
 

B/E
 filed by M/s. Pariston Exim, Rajkot 
 
 
 

 09.04.1997
 
 
 
 
 

DRI,
 Chennai letter to DKI Ahmedabad to make enquiries about M/s Pariston Exim
 
 
 

 09.04.1997 & 24.04.1997
 
 
 
 
 

M/s
 Sunchan Trading fax offering the goods to M/s Worldwide Trading Lucknow
 (Part)
 
 
 

 22.04.1997
 
 
 
 
 

M/s. Worldwide Trading accepting the offer
 
 
 

 23.04.1997
 
 
 
 
 

M/s. Sunchan Trading confirming the offer
 
 
 

 25.04.1997
 
 
 
 
 

DGFT,
 Rajkot letter informing the Commissioner that person belonging to M/s
 Pariston Exim were not available and licences cancelled. 23.05.1997
 
 
 
 
 

Goods
 seized on 
 
 
 

31.05.1997
 
 
 
 
 

Letter
 for withdrawal of B/E by M/s. Parison Exim Ltd. (*based on a letter dated 20.06.1997 received
 from M/s. Pariston Exim)
 
 
 

15.07.1997*
 
 
 
 
 

Payment
 by M/s Worldwide Trading 
 
 
 

02.06.1997
 
 
 
 
 

Requested
 Commissioner to transfer B/E in their name M/s. Worldwide Trading Ltd. 16.06.1997
 
 
 
 
 

Show
 Cause Notice issued
 
 
 

Nov. 1997
 
 
 
 
 

Case
 adjudicated on 
 
 
 

06.03.1998
 
 

 

From the above chronology of events, it appeared to learned Commissioner that M/s. STC had sold the same consignment to two different buyers viz. M/s. Pariston Exim,. Rajkot and M/s. WTL, Lucknow. It appeared to him that M/s. STC were keeping sale documents in duplicate for the same consignment, one in the name of M/s. Pariston Exim, Rajkot and the other in the name of M/s. WTL, Lucknow. He further inferred that there was collusion between M/s. STC and M/s. Pariston Exim, Rajkot. On this basis, learned Commissioner proceeded to examine the applicability of the ratio; of the apex court's decision in Sampath Raj Dugar case to the facts of the case on, hand. He observed that a foreign supplier of goods imported into India was not entitled to ask for re-export of the goods under claim of ownership over the same, where he was party to any fraud committed by the importer. Alter noting that the Advance Licences issued to M/s. Pariston Exim, Rajkot had been cancelled, by the Licensing authority which found the said firm to be fictitious and observing that M/s. STC were hand in glove with the above firm, learned Commissioner found. M/s. STC to be a party to fraud and, on this basis, held that M/s. STC were not entitled to the benefit of Sampath Raj Dugar case (supra). The same view was taken by the Commissioner with reference to the Tribunal's decision in: Uniflex Cables v. Collector of Customs, Bombay . In relation to M/s. TL, the adjudicating authority observed that they were only used as a front by M/s. STC to save a part of the goods exported to India. 3. Heard both sides. Learned Counsel for the appellants submitted that the adjudicating authority had gone beyond the scope of the remand order of the Tribunal. The authority had recorded findings contrary to the Tribunal's findings in the remand order. Contextually, Counsel referred to Collector of Central Excise, Aurangabad v. Tigrania Metal and Steel Industries 2001 (J32) E.L.T.103 (Tri-Del.) wherein a second remand to Collector was ordered as he was found to have recorded findings contrary to certain findings recorded by the Tribunal in its first remand order. Counsel submitted that it was not open to the Commissioner to seek to distinguish Sampath Raj Dugar case from the case on hand. The apex court's decision had only to be followed by the adjudicating authority in terms of the Tribunal's remand order. The remand order was not challenged by the department and, therefore, it was not open to the respondent to argue to the contra. 4. Counsel submitted that M/s. WTL had paid the price for 1294 kgs, of raw silk (covered under the second bill of entry) to M/S. STC as evidenced by the relevant payment request and payment advise of fee suppliers bankers. However, in respect of 1339 kgs. of raw silk (covered under third bill of entry)., Counsel conceded, that no such payment was made by M/s. WTL to M/s STC. On these facts, Counsel contended that M/s. WTL had clear title to 1294 kgs. of raw silk covered under second bill of entry while M/s. STC retained title to 1339 kgs. of raw silk covered under the third bill of entry. They must get "seizure value" of the goods rather than its sale value. In this connection, Counsel relied on the Calcutta High Court's judgment in Bhogilal Mekla v. Union of India . Alternatively, It was argued that the appellants were entitled to receive proportionate shares of sale proceeds of the goods auctioned by the department, in terms of Section 150 of the Customs Act. 5. Learned. SDR did not think that the adjudicating authority had travelled beyond the scope of the Tribunal's remand order. According to her, it would appear from the operative part of the said order that it was an open remand enabling the commissioner to consider all claims and contentions of the parties. With reference to Counsel's claim under Section 150 of the Customs Act, learned SDR pointed out that the provision was applicable only to sale proceeds of goods not confiscated. In the present case, the goods were confiscated and thereafter auctioned. Hence the provision would not be applicable. Learned SDR submitted that, in the event of the appellant's claim for share of sale proceeding being allowed, the department liability would be only to retain the balance sale proceeds after adjusting redemption fine, with interest at the rate of 12% on such balance amount. In this connection, reliance was placed on fee Hon'ble High Court's judgment in Collector of Madras v. Meena A. Bharwani . In the event of the appellants being allowed to get proportionate shares of sale proceeds of the goods, they should be made to pay redemption fine and penalty. In this connection, SDR claimed support from the decision of this Bench in MV Marketing and Supplies v. Commissioner of Customs, Chennai 2004 (178) KLT. 1034 (Tri-Chennai). Learned Counsel, in his rejoinder, sought to distinguish the case of MV Marketing & Supplies (supra), on facts. 6. We have given careful consideration to the submissions. The first question to be considered is whether, in passing the impugned order, learned Commissioner travelled beyond the scope of our remand order viz. Final Order No. 1822 & 1823/1999 reported in 2001 (136) E.L.T.88 (Tri.-Chennai). The findings, observations and directions of the Bench are contained in paragraphs 9 and 10 of the said order, which are reproduced below: The appeals are thus allowed by remand. 6.1. It would appear from the above order of the Tribunal that the direction to the Commissioner was to consider two contentions of the appellants; (a) that the goods were not liable for confiscation and (b) that they (appellants) were entitled to receive the sale proceeds of the goods. These contentions were to be considered in the light of the Supreme Court's decision in. Sampath Raj Dugar case and the Tribunal's decision in Savitri Electronics case. As regards confiscation, we find that the proposal in the show-cause notice was to confiscate the goods under Section 111(d) of the Customs Act (vide para 28 of the SCN), Clause (d) of Section 111 provides for confiscation of goods which are imported contrary to any prohibition imposed by or under the Customs Act or any other law for the time being in force. This provision was invoked in the show-cause notice in the wake of cancellation of the advance licences. The notice alleged that the raw silk, a restricted item under Exim Policy 1992-97, had been imported without valid import licence. On this aspect, a conclusive finding is noticeable in the Tribunal's remand order, which is to the effect, that the goods had been imported under valid, licence and could not be held to be tainted goods on the date of filing of the relevant bills of entry. Accordingly, it was held that the goods could not be confiscated. This view, taken in the remand order, ruled out confusability of the goods under Section 111(d) . The importation of the goods was made under Advance Licences issued by the competent authority which were validly in force when the relevant bills of entry were filed. Hence it cannot be said that the goods were imported contrary to any prohibition. The subsequent cancellation of the Advance Licences by DGFT on the ground that the licensee-firm had subsequently turned out to be fictitious would not detract from this position. Hence the application of Section 111(d) is ruled out. This is the view implicitly taken in the remand order, which did not purport, to mandate that the Commissioner should examine the question whether the goods were liable far confiscation under Section 111(d) . Though it may appear from some observations made in para (10) of the remand order that the appellants plea against confiscation was required to be considered by the Commissioner, the order, read as a whole, could not mean that way. Such observations are not determinative of the scope of the remand as they are of superfluous nature. We find that, in the impugned order, learned Commissioner held the goods liable for confiscation under Section 111(d) of the Customs Act, which decision is beyond the scope of the remand (as rightly submitted by learned Counsel) inasmuch as such confiscation was already ruled out in the remand order. 6.2. The real purport of the remand order was to make the adjudicating authority consider the appellants' claim for sale proceeds of the goods in the light of Sampath Raj Dugar (supra). The remand order had also given a brief account of the facts of the case of Sampath Raj Dugar for the benefit of the lower authority. Learned Commissioner, however, chose to distinguish those facts and to hold that the ratio of Sampath Raj Dugar was not applicable to the facts of the case of STC and WTL. He held M/s. STC to have colluded with M/s. Panston Exim and to have acted with fraudulent intention. On this basis, learned Commissioner took the view that M/s. STC were not entitled to claim, re-export of the goods. We are unable to accept the distinction drawn between the case of Sampath Raj Dugar and that of STC inasmuch as, in the remand order, this Bench has already found that the facts of the two cases are almost identical. We find that by holding the goods liable for confiscation and venturing into the act of distinguishing the case of Sampath Raj Dugar the adjudicating authority was travelling beyond the scope of the remand order. 6.3. The reference to M/s. STC is contained in para 16 of the SCN, which reads as under: We have to accept the above explanation, not controverted by the respondent. We are at a loss to understand how fraud could be detected in the above transactions and attributed to M/s. STC. Allegations of serious nature, such as collusion and fraud, require firm and cogent evidence, which is missing in the impugned order. We, therefore, reject the above finding of the commissioner against M/s. STC. 6.5. It is not in dispute that, through M/s. WTL, had initially to from M/s. STC the raw silk covered under the second and third bills of entry filed by M/s. Priston Exim, they paid far only 1294 kgs, of silk Covered under the second Bill of Entry and did not pay for 1339 kgs. of silk covered under the third-Bill of Entry. M/s. STC retained ownership over 1339 kgs of raw silk, for which the bill of lading remained with them and the invoice returned to them unpaid. In the light of the apex court's judgment in Sampath Raj Dugar (supra), the claim of Ms. STC for re-export of 1339 kgs. of raw silk covered under the third, bill of entry filed by M/s. Pariston Exim ought to have been accepted by the Commissioner and, the goods having already been disposed of through, auction, their alternative claim for proportionate share of sale proceeds should have been favourably considerded. 6.6. The only finding recorded ill the impugned order, as against M/s. WTL is that they were used by M/s. STC only as a "front" to save part of their (STC's) goods. M/s. STC were entitled to take care of their own goods and, for this purpose, they were in constant and direct correspondence with the Commissioner. We have already examined this aspect and have found nothing which can be said to indicate that M/s. WTL were used as a "front" by M/s. STC to save their goods. In any case, the right claimed by M/s. WTL to clear 1294 kgs. Of raw silk covered under the second bill of entry cannot be defeated on the sole ground that they acted as a 'front' for M/s. STC to save the latter's goods. They had requested for permission to present bill of entry in their own name after the importer (Pariston Exim) had abandoned the goods. This request was made on the strength of a bill of lading and an invoice, both of which were in their own name. These documents along with banker's document evidencing payment of price of goods to the supplier should have been accepted as constituting genuine transaction between M/s. STC and M/s. WTL. By presenting such documents to the Customs authorities, M/s. WTL were holding themselves out to be " importer" of 1294 kgs. Of raw silk in terms of Section 2(26) of the Customs Act for the purpose of presenting a bill of entry under Section 46(1) of the Act of clearing the goods. Bill they were also liable to produce valid import licence for such clearance of the goods, which was a restricted, item. M/s. WTL have also no case that the goods was freely Importable, It appears, at no point of time did M/s. WTL claim to cleat the goods under a valid licence. The Commissioner, on all these facts and circumstances, should have carefully considered their plea for sale proceeds. Instead, he was rejecting M/s. WTL's claim on the ground that they had been used by M/s. STC as a "front' to save their goods, and that too, without potting them to notice of this ground. 6.7. We have found that natural justice was denied to both the parties by the adjudicating authority. Having found that M/s. STC are entitled claim their share of sale proceeds of the goods, we must now examine the extent to which they can claim this benefit. The only provision cited before us in this connection is Section 150 of the Customs Act, which reads as under: Learned SDR. has argued that the above provision is not applicable to the subject goods which were confiscated. We have already held that confiscation of the goods by the Commissioner is beyond the scope of the Tribunal's remand order. Therefore, for the purpose of Section 150 ibid, the goods must be deemed not to have been confiscated. The word "confiscated" figuring in the above provision should be understood as "confiscated in accordance with law". In the present case,, the goods were confiscated beyond tee scope of the Tribunal's order and such confiscation cannot be said to be in accordance with law inasmuch as the remand order had became final and binding on the adjudicating authority. It would follow that the sale proceeds of the goods will have to be applied, in terms of Section 150 ibid. 7. In the result, we set aside the impugned order and allow these appeals s by way of remand. with the following directions to the Commissioner: (Pronounced in open court on 12.03.2007)