Heard counsel for the parties. Both these applicants are arrested in connection with
Crime No.16/2014 registered with S.T.F. Police Station,
Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM examination scam
cases - for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of I.P.C., and under Section 3
(D) 1 and 2 / 4 of the Madhya Pradesh Manyata Prapt
Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicants by the prosecution
is that of beneficiary and impersonator respectively. It is fairly accepted by the counsel for the State that
the charge sheet has been filed against both these applicants
in the said crime and custodial interrogation of the
applicants may not be necessary any further as of now as
the person with whom applicants had interacted has already
been arrested and the relevant part of the investigation
involving the role of the applicants having been completed
coupled with the fact that the applicants through counsel
undertake to extend full cooperation to the Investigating
 Officer for further investigation, if any, including against
them and that they will punctually appear before the trail
Court to ensure early disposal of the criminal case, in the
interest of justice, taking overall view of the matter,
therefore, both the applications are allowed and the
applicants are ordered to be released on bail on following
conditions to be strictly observed by the applicants:- (Rupees One Lac) with two solvent local
 sureties in the like amount each to the
 satisfaction of the Trial Court for their
 regular appearance during the trial in
 connection with Crime No.16/2014 in
 Police Station S.T.F. Bhopal; (2) The applicants shall also comply with
 the conditions enumerated under Section
 437 (3) of Cr.P.C. meticulously; and
 (3) Additionally, the applicant Kapil Rawat
 will report to the nearest Police Station
 where he would reside in Tehsil Ora,
 District Murena and applicant Manish
 Rawat will report to the nearest Police
 Station where he would reside in Tehsil
 Veerpur, District Shivpur (M.P.) once a
 week on every Sunday between 10:00
 a.m. to 12:00 noon unless required to
 attend the office of the Investigating
 Officer at Bhopal on that day. (4) The applicants will deposit their passport,
 if available, with the Investigating
 Agency, else file affidavit in this Court
 declaring that the applicants do not have
 any passport of any country. This
 compliance will be condition precedent
 for release on bail. The bail applications stand disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules. We make it clear that grant of bail in this matter will not
influence the decision in considering the bail application
against the applicant in other cases, which will have to be
decided on its own merit.