% 27.05.2021 1. This is a petition filed by the petitioner under Section 439 read with Section 482 Cr.P.C seeking bail in case FIR No. 483/2020 under Sections
 387 / 440 / 506 / 120B / 201 / 34 IPC and Sections 25 / 27 / 54 / 59 of the Arms Act
 registered at P.S.Hari Nagar. 2. Brief facts of the case are that on 31.07.2020 two persons have fired
 in one shop and ran away. On receiving the complaint, DD No. 55A was
 recorded and said DD was handed over to ASI Sohanveer who along with
 PSI Kavish went to the spot and met the complainant who has handed over
 one letter written in Hindi to them in which Rs. 1 crore was demanded. On
 the basis of the said complaint made by Azim Khan, the present FIR was
 registered. 3. According to the prosecution, during the course of investigation and
 examination of CCTV Footage, one motorcycle bearing registration no. (VIA VIDEO-CONFERENCING)

 DL10SR-1915 was found from the scene of crime. It was found that the
 motorcycle was registered in the name of one Bhola Ram, which was
 mortgaged to Ashish Madan. According to the prosecution, investigation
 revealed that Ashish Mohan had given the said motorcycle to Annu Malik
 and Annu Malik, on interrogation told that he had given the said motorcycle
 to Parmod @ Parvesh. During investigation, it was further revealed that the
 letter which was shown at the shop of the complainant demanding an
 amount of Rs.1 crore was on behalf of one Kaushal Gang, whose leader was
 launched in Hisar Jail. According to the prosecution, two co-accused of the
 applicant Annu Malik and Parmod has been arrested and on interrogation
 Parmod revealed that his brother Naveen was launched in Bhondsi Jail and
 was in contact with Kaushal Gang. According to the prosecution, it is
 further revealed that fire was done by Sachin and Kapil. As per the
 prosecution, on interrogation, Ashu @ Hukka and Naveen who were in
 Bhondsi Jail disclosed that Naveen managed a mobile in jail and Amit @
 Lara had given him a whatsapp code of 9518876384. 4. During investigation, it was further revealed that Ashu @ Hukka was
 in touch with his brother with the present applicant/accused with similar
 number. The applicant/accused was interrogated on 5.8.2020 and during
 investigation, it was revealed that applicant had arranged a sim card of
 which mobile no. 9518876384 was operated, which was registered in the
 name of his cousin Kapil @ Ravi. The applicant/accused was arrested on
 the same day. 5. It is submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner is in
 judicial custody since 5.8.2020, and he is not required for any investigation
 purposes as charge sheet has already been filed. It is further submitted by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:11.06.2021 20:27 (VIA VIDEO-CONFERENCING)

 the counsel for the petitioner that simply because the petitioner is the brother
 of Ashu @ Hukka, he has been falsely implicated in this case. It is further
 submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that prosecution has not filed any
 supporting documents revealing the source of internet through which the
 accused Ashu @ Hukka and Naveen were operating mobile no.
 9518876384. It is further submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that
 there is no question of applicant tampering the evidence or settling the
 witnesses. It is further submitted that the applicant has clean past
 antecedents and the trial would take time to conclude. It is further submitted
 by the counsel for the petitioner that the allegations put-forth against
 applicant/accused in the FIR are highly improbable and cannot be proved
 during the course of trial. It is further submitted by the counsel for the
 applicant/accused that the case is based on circumstantial evidence and story
 of the prosecution and documents filed along with the charge sheet do not
 complete the chain of circumstantial evidence to prosecute the
 applicant/accused. 6. On the other hand, it is submitted by learned APP that the allegations
 against the applicant/accused are grave and serious in nature. It is further
 submitted that the applicant/accused has provided sim card through which
 whatsapp calls for extortion were made. It is further submitted by learned
 APP that Jio Hotspot Device and Jio Sim Card were recovered from the
 possession of the applicant/accused through which calls were made through
 whatsapp call. It is further submitted that investigation had revealed that
 accused Ashu @ Hukka was using the said whatsapp number and only on
 that basis the said number was recovered from the applicant/accused on
 5.8.2020. (VIA VIDEO-CONFERENCING) 7. In the instant case, it cannot be said that the allegations against the
 petitioner are not grave and serious in nature because calls for extortion of a
 sum of Rs.1 crore were made from the complainant on the basis of the sim
 card and whatsapp provided by the present applicant/accused. 8. During the investigation, the Jio Hotspot Device and Sim Card were
 recovered from the present applicant/accused which facilitated the making
 of the whatsapp calls through which demands of extortion were made. As
 far as the contention of counsel for the petitioner that chain of circumstantial
 evidence is not complete, the same cannot be appreciated at this stage,
 because this is not the stage, where detailed analysis of the evidence
 produced by the prosecution in the court in the form of charge sheet is to be
 considered and deeply analyzed to arrive at a conclusion either in favour of
 the accused or the state as such an exercise might prejudice the case of either
 of the parties. Hospot Device and Sim Card were recovered from the
 applicant/accused on the basis of the information provided by the co-
 accused Ashu-Hukka. In these circumstances, at this stage no ground for bail
 is made out, therefore the application seeking regular bail is dismissed. RAJNISH BHATNAGAR, J
 MAY 27, 2021/ib Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:11.06.2021 20:27