Hon'ble S.C. Chaurasia,J. (Delivered by Hon'ble Devi Prasad Singh, J)

 Question involved and raised in the instant writ petition are :- (b) Whether a bona fide error in decision making process
may be termed as mis-conduct and for that, a police officer may be
suspended and charged by adopting the procedure for major
penalty ? What constitute misconduct ? (c) Whether the action of the State and its authorities based
on no evidence or on trivial grounds may be permitted to continue
which may demoralise the police force ? 2. The petitioner, who is Deputy Superintendent of Police in the
U.P. Police Force, has approached this Court under Art. 226 of the
Constitution of India with the grievance that he has been
persecuted by the government only because he had interrogated
the Chief Minister of the State Ms. Mayawati while serving in
Central Bureau of Investigation (in short, C.B.I.) and in
consequence thereof, the impugned action has been taken which
suffers from bias based on no evidence. The order of suspension as well as the charge-sheet has
been impugned while invoking extraordinary remedy of the Court 2 under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India. SERVICE CAREER 3. On 25.12.1976, the petitioner was appointed as Sub
Inspector in U.P. Police through direct recruitment. It has been
stated that from very beginning, the petitioner has been
discharging duty with utmost commitment to his job. In the year
1977, the former Minister of the State Brahmadutt Dwivedi was
murdered and the petitioner was entrusted to assist C.B.I. which
resulted with positive outcome. 4. Keeping in view the bright service career, the petitioner was
chosen by the C.B.I. and from 13.7.1999 to 31.7.2006, the
petitioner remained in C.B.I. on deputation. He raided the Director
of Doordarshan, Lucknow and arrested him on accepting bribe of
Rs.1 lac. He was also associated in Century Scam case. 5. The petitioner was part of the team conducting enquiry (P.E.
No.4(A)/2003 with regard to Taj Heritage Corridor. During the
course of investigation, evidence was collected by the petitioner
with regard to fake donors who were earlier not traceable. For this
act of skillful investigation, the C.B.I. has rewarded the petitioner
with Rs.5000/-. 6. In para 5 of the writ petition, it has also been stated that from
1976 to 1983, the petitioner was posted in Varanasi and recovered
2.50quintal of looted silver while serving at police station Adampur,
Varanasi and for this, he was rewarded. 7. It has also been stated that "Argha" made of gold of Baba
Vishwanath temple, Varanasi was stolen but it was recovered by
the petitioner and the accused were convicted during trial. It has
been stated that in 1987, the petitioner was posted at police station
Pannuganj, Mirzapur (now district Sonbhadra) and while posted 3 there, he arrested a dacoit Ghamari Kharwar bearing reward of
Rs.50,000/- on his head. For this act of bravery, the petitioner was
rewarded by payment of Rs.30,000/- by the Government of Bihar. While posted at police station Pannuganj, Mirzapur, the
petitioner had recovered 60 guns, one sten gun, seven rifles of 303
bore belonging to Bihar Police and granades and got released five
abducted persons of U.P. in the custody of Ghamri Kharwar gang. 8. In the year 1990, the petitioner was promoted as Inspector in
U.P. Police and posted in the Vigilance Department at Varanasi
Sector, Varanasi and arrested several employees indulged in
bribery. While working as Inspector in Anti Corruption Branch,
Lucknow, the petitioner laid several traps of Class-I officers
including I.T.S. Officers and DGM of Telecom Department and
Director, Doordarshan, U.P. and for this courageous work, he was
paid Rs.5,000/- by the C.B.I. as reward. 9. The petitioner was part of investigation team in Century Scam
case and arrested the accused from Kalimpong for which the C.B.I.
Director has rewarded him with payment of Rs.10,000/-. The
petitioner has generated various valuable information while serving
in C.B.I. 10. While investigating Case No. R.C. No.19(A)/2003 as member
of team of C.B.I., the petitioner had searched the house of Ms.
Mayawati (as she then was), at 13, Mal Avenue, Lucknow and
interrogated Ms. Mayawati on 10.5.2005 at her residence at
Humayun Road, New Delhi and recorded her statement under Section 161 CrPC. He also interrogated other family members of
Ms. Mayawati (as she then was) and sisters of Late Kashiram.
While investigating as member of the team in C.B.I. In R.C.
No.19(A)/2003, the petitioner detected an asset of huge amount in
the name of a lady who is wife of Siddharth Kumar who happens 4 to be the real brother of Ms. Mayawati. Siddharth Kumar had taken
V.R.S. on 16.2.2005 while serving on the post of Joint Director,
Training in the Ministry of Labour and Social Justice. It has also
been stated that the petitioner detected huge assets existing in the
name of Bhabhi of Ms. Mayawati. 11. It has been stated that the petitioner was rewarded twice with
payment of Rs. 1,750/- and Rs.1000/- for commendable work he
has done in connection with investigation of a case against Ms.
Mayawati (as she then was). A copy of the reward sanctioned by
the D.I.G., C.B.I. On 7.10.2004 has been annexed as Annexure
No.3 to the writ petition. 12. The petitioner was recommended by the Superintendent of
Police, Lucknow vide his letter dated 30.10.2003 for Indian Police
Medal on account of his meritorious service on the occasion of
Republic Day 2004. The recommendation dated 30.10.2003(copy
Annexure-4 to the writ petition) is self speaking depicting the
petitioner's meritorious service record. On the Republic Day, Indian Police Medal was awarded to
the petitioner by the President of India, a copy of which has been
annexed as Annexure No.5 to the writ petition. 13. Thereafter in May, 2006, Departmental Promotion Committee
has considered and promoted the petitioner on the post of Deputy
Superintendent of Police. Subsequently, on 31.7.2006, he was
reverted back to the U.P. Police by the C.B.I. and joined on the
post of Deputy Superintendent of Police, C.B.C.I.D. While posted
as Circle Officer in Lucknow, the petitioner arrested several
prominent persons for their criminal act. He served on Economic
Offences Wing and then transferred to Special Task Force, in short
STF. A team was constituted under the leadership of the petitioner 5 to carry out the operation against the rewarded dacoit Daduwa and
Thokiya. 14. On July 21, 2007, after receipt of the information with regard
to the presence of Thokiya alias Amibika Patel in Sakri Bera forest
of district Chitrakoot, the petitioner along with his team members
proceeded to said village area in forest after informing the Senior
Superintendent of Police, STF in Chitrakoot. It has been stated
that the petitioner had proceeded in vehicle from Chitrakoot to Gupt
Godawari, district Satna of Madhya Pradesh and from there, he
along with his team members left the vehicle and marched to the
assigned area on foot from the mid of hilly area and jungle. 15. On 22.7.2007, between 8.00a.m. to 9.15a.m., encounter took
place between the petitioner and Thokiya gang of dacoits. In the
said encounter, one dacoit Maiyadeen was killed but other dacoits
managed to escape. Keeping in view the blood stains on earth, the
petitioner's team has tried to chase other dacoits who were injured
in the said encounter. It has been stated that the petitioner
communicated the Senior Superintendent of Police, STF on mobile
phone No.9415902216 and as per his instruction, he also informed
the Addl. Director General of Police, STF Shri Shailja Kant Mishra
on his mobile phone No.9415902048. The petitioner also
requested Dr. Pritender Singh, Superintendent of Police, Chitrakoot
six times on his mobile phone No.9415902832 for additional
force(back-up). An assurance was given by the Superintendent of
Police, Chitrakoot to the petitioner for additional force. Information
was communicated by the petitioner to Shri Brijendra Rai, Station
House Officer, Karvi on his mobile phone No.9415904408 in
compliance of the instruction issued by the Superintendent of
Police, Chitrakoot but except the assurance, the Station House
Officer, Karvi had not sent reinforcement team to provide back-up
to the petitioner's force. 16. It has been stated by the petitioner that in spite of repeated
demands raised to the various authorities, no force was sent to
provide assistance to the petitioner's team which was fighting with
the dreaded dacoits of the locality and one of whom was killed
during the course of encounter. It has also been stated that Shri Brijendra Rai, Station House
Officer, Karvi through his mobile phone No.9415904408 informed
the petitioner for necessary assistance to be reaching there soon
but no one has arrived till night. Though the encounter with dacoits
took place on 22.5.2007 between 8.00a.m. to 9.15a.m. but no
assistance was provided to the petitioner's team in spite of due
communication to various authorities. 17. On getting no reinforcement or back-up from the local police,
the petitioner's team took a decision to leave the place and back to
district headquarter. While coming back after encounter in the
intervening night of 22/23.7.2007, dacoit Thokiya had arranged an
ambush along with his gang and fired upon the petitioner's team in
which six police personnel of the team and one informer died.
Thereafter, the petitioner was transferred to district Pratapgarh and
later on Special Investigating Team, Lucknow. He was again
transferred to district Unnao. 18. A magisterial enquiry was held and the Sub Divisional
Magistrate, Karvi, Chitrakoot submitted his report dated 31.8.2007.
After receipt of the report, by the impugned order, the petitioner
was placed under suspension in contemplation of departmental
enquiry with the allegation that because of lack of leadership
quality, six members of the STF team died on account of ambush
arranged by dacoit gang. It has been treated to be dereliction of
duty. 19. A charge-sheet of the same date, i.e. 26.5.2008 was served 7 upon the petitioner in which the report of the Superintendent of
Police, Chitrakoot and report of Shri Ghanshyam Ahirwar , Circle
Officer, Chitrakoot and the report of the Shri Brijendra Rai, SHO,
Karvi has been shown to be evidence. It shall be appropriate to
reproduce the impugned charge-sheet dated 26.5.2008 a copy of
which has been filed as Annexure No.2 to the writ petition. आरोप-पत

शी धीरने द राय,
पुिलस उपाधीकक (िनलिमबत )
 आपके िवरद संिसथत िवभागीय कायरवाही मे आपको एतददारा िनमनवत
आरोिपत िकया जाता हःै
 जब आप एस०टी०एफ० टीम के पभारी थे तब िदनांक २२.०७.०७ को
एस०टी०एफ० एवं ठोिकया गगै के मधय पातः ८.०० बजे से ९.१५ बजे तक थाना
 े ा जगं ल मे हु इ मुठभेड. मे गगै का सदसय मय
कोतवाली, कवी, िचतकूट के बड ै ादीन
उफर लमझगड. उफर पनडा पुत जगं िलया उफर वयापारी िनवासी खमहिरया, थाना
कोतवाली कवी, जनपद िचतकूट मारा गया था । ठोिकया अपने सािथयो के साथ
भागने मे सफल रहा । एस०टी०एफ० टीम घटना के पशचात १५ घणटे तक जंगल
मे मौजूद रही थी । आप एस०टी०एफ० टीम पभारी थे, आपका यह पथम दाियतव
था िक जब ठोिकया गगै का एक सदसय मारा गया था तो आपको इसकी सूचना
सथानीय पुिलस/केतािधकारी/पुिलस अधीकक को दी जानी चािहए थी, परनतु आपके
दारा ऎसा नही िकया गया और िबना सथानीय पुिलस के सहयोग से घटना के लगभग
१५ घणटे तक भीषण जगं ल मे मौजूद रहने एवं राित २३.१५ बजे जंगल से वापस आते
समय बघौलन ितराहा, गाम बघौलन मे ठोिकया गगै के दारा पितशोध से
एस०टी०एफ० टीम के उपर फायिरगं की गयी, िजसमे एस०टी०एफ० के ०६ सदसय
मारे गये तथा १० अनय सदसय घायल हु ए थे । आपकी लापरवाही/उदासीनता एवं
अकमरणयता के कारण एस०टी०एफ० के ०६ जवान मारे गये तथा १० जवान घायल
कर िदये गये थे, जबिक आप यह अचछी तरह जानते थे िक दसयु गगै ठोिकया का जब
भी कोइ सदसय पुिलस मुठभेड. मे मारा जाता है वह पितशोधसवरप पुिलस से बदला
अवशय लेता है, इस ओर आपके दारा धयान नही िदया गया । यिद आपके दारा इस
ओर धयान िदया गया होता और थोडी सी सूझ-बूझ से एस०टी०एफ० टीम का
मागरदशरन िकया गया होता तो एस०टी०एफ० के जवान नही मारे जाते और न ही
घायल होते एवं इस बडी घटना से बचा जा सकता था । इस समबनध मे आपके दारा
िदनांक २३.०७.०७ को थाना कोतवाली कवी, जनपद िचतकूट मे िलिखत तहरीर दी 8 गयी, िजसके आधार पर मु०अ०स०
 ं -३२६/२००७, धारा-१४७/१४८ /
१४९/३०७/ ३०२/३४ भादिव व ७ िक०ला०अ०एकट एवं १०/१२ डी०ए० एकट
बनाम ठोिकया गगै कुल १६ अिभयुको के िवरद पज
 ं ीकृत िकया गया , िजसकी
िववेचना शी बृजेनद राय, ततकालीन पभारी िनरीकक थाना कोतवाली कवी दारा की
गयी तथा पशनगत पकरण की जांच शी घनशयाम अिहरवार, ततकानीन केतािधकारी
नगर, िचतकूट दारा की गयी । पशनगत अिभयोग की िववेचना के दौरान पूरे पकरण मे
आपके दारा की गयी तुिटयां पाई गई । आपकी लापरवाही/उदासीनता के कारण एक और एस०टी०एफ० के ०६
जवान शहीद हो गये तथा १० जवान घायल हो गये तो दस
 ू री ओर दसयू गगै लीडर
ठोिकया का मनोबल/उतसाह और बढ. गया । इस पकार आपके दारा अपने कतरवयो के
पित घोर लापरवाही/उदासीनता एवं अकमरणयता बरती गयी । उक आरोपो के समथरन
मे िनमन साकय पसतािवत हःै - २. एतददारा आपसे पतयेक आरोप के उतर मे अपने बचाव का िलिखत िववरण,
आरोप पत की पािप के १५ िदन के अनदर जांच अिधकारी को पसतुत करने की अपेका
की गयी है । आपको सचेत िकया जाता है िक यिद जांच अिधकारी को िनधारिरत समय
के अनदर एवं कोई िववरण नही पाप होता है, िजसकी पतयाशा की गयी है, तो यह
माना जाएगा िक उपरोक के सब ं मे आपको कुछ नही कहना है , और आपके पकरण
 ं ध
मे तदनुसार एकपकीय कायरवाही/िनणरय ले िलया जायेगा । ३. यिद आप वयिकगत सुनवाई के िलये इचछुक है और िकसी साकी की
परीका/पितपरीका करना चाहते है तो अपने िलिखत िववरण के साथ उसका नाम, पता 9 साकय का, िजसे पतयेक ऎसे साकी से देने की पतयाशा की जायेगी, समुिचत िववरण भी
जांच अिधकारी को पसतुत करे ।" proclaimed Coke, "is a science of understanding to discern
between falsity and truth, between right and wrong, between
shadows and substance, between equity and colourable glosses
and pretences, and not to do according to their wills and private
affections. 26. In Sharp v. Wakefield, reported in 1891 AC 173, 179, Lord
Halsbury rightly observed as under:- 27. Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case reported in 2004(2) SCC
590; Union of India v. Kuldeep Singh has held that the discretion is
to know through law what is just. To quote:- Their Lordships of Hon'ble Supreme Court further proceeded
to hold as under:- 28. In view of above in case the statutory discretion vests in an
authority then such discretion should be exercised not in arbitrary,
whimsical and fanciful manner. It must be reflected from the
outcome of event that the authority concerned has exercised
discretion within the sound principle of law, skill and wisdom with
vigilant circumspection and care. The discretionary power imposes
a heavy responsibility on a person or authority. The latitude or
liberty accorded by statute, Circular or Order to the higher authority
does not permit to exercise such power in unjust and unfair
manner. In the case of Kuldeep Singh (supra), their Lordships of
Apex Court further held as under:- 29. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of U.P. vs.
Mohd. Nooh reported in 1958 SC 86, Pratap Singh vs. State of
Punjab reported in AIR 1964 SC 72, Fashih Chaudhary vs. D.G.
Doordarshan reported in 1989(1) SCC 189 held that if the act
complained of is without jurisdiction or is in excess of authority
conferred by statute or there is abuse or misuse of power, a Court
can interfere. In such an eventuality, mere fact that there is denial
of allegation of malafide or oblique motive or of its having taken
into consideration improper or irrelevant matter does not preclude
the court from enquiring into the truth of allegations levelled against 14 the authority and granting appropriate relief to the aggrieved party. 30. In number of cases Hon'ble Supreme Court ruled that every
arbitrary action, whether in the nature of legislative or
administrative or quasi-judicial exercise of power, is liable to attract
the prohibition of Article 14 of the Constitution of India vide AIR
1974 SC 555; E.P.Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu, 1979 (3) SCC
489; R.D. Shetty v. International Airport Authority, 1978 (1) SCC
248; Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, 1981(1) SCC 722; Ajay
Hasia v. Khalid Mujib, 1990 (3) SCC 223; Shri Sitaram Sugar
Co. Ltd. v. Union of India . 31. In M.I. Builders Pvt. Ltd. v. Radhey Shyam reported in
(1999) 6 SCC 464, the Apex Court ruled that the decision is
unlawful if it is one to which no reasonable authority could have
come. 32. The Constitution Bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case
reported in AIR 1991 SC 101; Delhi Transport Corporation v.
D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress and others had repelled the
presumption that person holding high office does not commit
wrong. Discretion enjoyed by the persons holding high offices
should not be left to the good sense of individuals. Relevant portion
from the judgment of Delhi Transport Corporation (supra) is
reproduced as under:- 33. The Supreme Court in 2005(5) SCC 181; State of NCT of
Delhi and another v. Sanjeev alias Bittoo upheld the right of
judicial review under Article 226 on the basis of illegality in decision
making process coupled with irrationally and perversity. While
holding that decision is irrational and Court may look into the
material on record. (Paragraphs 16, 17 and 21)

 Hon'ble Supreme Court further held in the case of Sanjeev (supra) that if the administrative or judicial power has been
exercised on non-consideration or non-application of mind to
relevant factors, such exercise shall stand vitiated. Relevant
portion from the judgment of Sanjeev (supra) is reproduced as
under:- 34. In Centre for Public Interest Litigation and another v.
Union of India reported in 2005 (8) SCC 202, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court reiterated the settled proposition of law that every
administrative action should be reasonable and fair. Hon'ble
Supreme Court further held that the procedure adopted by the
Administrative body should not be only fair but also seems to be
just, fair and proper. 35. Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case reported in AIR 1966 SC
81, Dwarka Nath Vs. Income Tax Officer and another while
pronouncing the scope of article 226 of constitution of India held as
under:- This article is couched in comprehensive
 phraseology land it ex facie confers a wide power
 on the High Courts to reach injustice wherever it
 is found. The Constitution designedly used a 17 wide language in describing the nature of the
 power, the purpose for which and the person or
 authority against whom it can be exercised. It
 can issue writs in the nature of prerogative writs
 as understood in England: but the scope of those
 writs also is widened by the use of the expression
 "nature" for the said expression does not equate
 the writs that can be issued in India with those in
 England, but only draws an analogy from them.
 That apart, High Courts can also issue directions,
 orders or writs other the prerogative writs. It
 enables the High courts to mould the reliefs to
 meet the peculiar and complicated requirements
 of this country. Any attempt to equate the scope
 of th empower of the high court under Art. 226 of
 the constitution with that of the English courts to
 issued prerogative writs is to introduce the
 unnecessary procedural restrictions grown over
 the years in a comparatively small country like
 England with a unitary form of government to a
 vast country like India functioning under a federal
 structure. Such a construction defeats th purpose
 of the article itself. To say this I snot to say that
 the High Courts can function arbitrarily under this
 Article. Some limitations are implicit in the article
 and others may be evolved to direct the article
 through defined channels. This interpretation has
 been accepted by this court in T.C.Basappa Vs.
 Nagappa , 1955-1 SCR 250 (AIR 1954 SC 440)
 and Irani Vs. State of Madras 1962-(2) SCR 169;
 (AIR 1961 SC 1731)." 36. In the famous Minerva Mills Ltd. Vs. Union of India case
reported in AIR 1980 (2) SCC 1789, the Apex Court held that the
High Court can substitute its own finding in case an action is found
to be wrong. The controversy was relating to Government right to
exercise power under Article 352 of the Constitution of India but the
Supreme Court had given emphasis to exercise power to preserve
the constitutional rights of the people of country. For convenience
relevant portion from Minerva Mill case (supra) is reproduced as
under:- 37. In a case reported in 1965 SC 1150, Devilal Vs. Sales Tax
Officer , Hon'ble Supreme Court held that an application under Article 226 of Constitution of India can not be refused on mere
ground that application is not in proper form. The relevant portion
from the Apex Court judgment is reproduced as under:- 38. Hon'ble Supreme court in a case reported in AIR 1981 SC
344, Fertiliser Corporation Kamagar Union (Regd.) Sindri and
others Vs. Union of India and others , while considering the
power under Article 32 as well as 226 of the Constitution of India 20 held that the power under Article 32 can be used only for
enforcement of fundamental right but under Article 226 also for 'any
other purpose', for convenience relevant portion from Fertiliser's
case is reproduced as under:- It is manifest that the jurisdiction conferred on this
 Court by Article 32 can be exercised for the
 enforcement of the rights conferred by Part III
 and for no other purpose. Clause (1) as well as
 Clause (2) of article 32 bring out this point in
 sharp focus. As contrasted with Article 32 , article
 226 (1) of the Constitution provides that: The difference in the phraseology of the two
 Articles brings out the marked difference in the
 nature and purpose of the right conferred by
 these Article. Whereas the right guaranteed by Article 32 can be exercised for the enforcement
 of fundamental rights only, the right conferred by article 226 can be exercised not only for the
 enforcement of fundamental rights but for any
 other purpose." 39. In the case of Union of India versus Vicco Laboratories 21 (2007)218 ELT 647 SC again the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reiterated the earlier propositions that alternative remedy is no bar
for exercising writ jurisdiction by the courts. Their Lordships held
that where a show cause notice is issued either without jurisdiction
or in an abuse process of law, certainly in that case , the writ court
would not hesitate to interfere even at the stage of issuance of
show cause notice. The relevant portion is reproduced as under: 40. In the case of Radha Krishan Moorthy(supra), their Lordships
of Hon'ble Supreme Court held that while interfering through
judicial review, the Court may not go into the truth of allegation
/charges except in case they are based on no evidence or charges
are vague and not clear. 41. Reliance placed by the learned Addl. Chief Standing Counsel
on the case of Upendra Singh (supra) seems to be not applicable
under the facts and circumstances of the case. In the case of 22 Upendra Singh (supra), it was the tribunal which interfered with the
enquiry on the basis of correctness of charges. Hence, Hon'ble
Supreme Court held that it was beyond the jurisdiction of the
tribunal which is akin to that of High Court under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India to interfere with the charge-sheet. The power
of tribunal is restricted statutory power whereas the power of this
Court under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India is wider to interfere
for "any other purpose". 42. The case of L. Srinivasan (supra) relates to interference by
administrative tribunal quashing order of suspension or charge-
sheet is not applicable in the present context. 43. The case of Ajit Singh (supra) relates to a situation where
Punjab and Haryana High Court has examined the merit of the
charges, hence the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that it could not
have been done. 44. In the present case, the submission of the petitioner's
counsel is with regard to abuse of process of law, mala fide on the
part of the State authorities and also a plea has been raised that
assuming the allegation on record as correct, it shall not amount to
misconduct. It has been vehemently stated that final outcome of
the enquiry is well-known fact, hence the Court should exercise
extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. 45. The case of Kunisetty Satyanarayana (supra) also relates to
different facts and circumstances which does not seem to be
applicable in the present case. JUDICIAL REVIEW 46. Since almost six decades, courts have been following the
Wednesbury principle while interfering with the administrative 23 orders through judicial review but keeping in view the moral
devaluation in the society as well as the functioning of the
government, the Wednesbury's principle (Associated Provincial
Picture Houses Limited v. Wednesbury Corp [1948]1 K.B.223) has
been further given strength by evolving and adding other grounds
for judicial review of administrative action (DE SMITH'S "Judicial
Review"). 47. Learned author held that the Wednesbury formulation has
been challenged in recent orders. Learned author has proceeded
to observe as under : 48. Learned author (supra) has considered various grounds for
interference through judicial review which includes statutory
reasonableness, unreasonable process, violation of common law
or constitutional principles, oppressive decisions, inadequate
evidence, mistake of fact, mixed question of law and facts, 24 decisions unsupported by substantial evidence, irrational decision
etc. 49. While considering oppressive decisions, in De Smith's
Judicial Review, learned author observed that the official decisions
may be held unreasonable when they are unduly oppressive. To
reproduce relevant portion " The focus of attention in these cases will be
 principally the impact of the decision upon the
 affected person. The outcome or end-product of
 the decision-making process will thus be assessed,
 rather than the way the decision was reached
 (although the factors taken into account in reaching
 the decision may also be- or may be assumed to
 be-incorrectly weighed). Since the claim is
 essentially abuse of power, in the sense of
 excessive use of power, each case must be
 considered in the context of the nature of the
 decision, the function of the particular power and
 the nature of the interests or rights affected." 50. Hon'ble Supreme Court in some of the recent cases has
departed from Wednesbury principle and held that the court while
proceeding with judicial review may consider later development of
law and pass appropriate order to do complete justice between the
parties vide 2008( 9)SCC 677 Nikhil Merchant versus CBI . 51. In a recent case, reported in ( 2009)9 SCC 610 Babubhai
Jamnadas Patel versus State of Gujarat and others , their
Lordships of Hon'ble Supreme Court held that appropriate direction
may be issued to do complete justice between the parties. It shall
be appropriate to reproduce relevant portion : 52. Democratic polity is founded on the principle that each
individual possess equal value and the dignity of a person is
important factor to be secured by courts without any discrimination.
Baroness Hale in Ghaidan versus Godin-Mendoza [2004]UKHL
30; [2004]2 A.C. 557 observed : 53. The dignity of individual is part and parcel of Art. 21 of the
Constitution of India and a person cannot be dealt with shabbily or
oppressively in case he discharges his duty bona fidely, honestly
as per his own knowledge and skill (2010)3 SCC page 786 Maharashtra University of Health Society versus Satchikitsa
Prasarak Mandal Dignity . 54. Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case reported in ( 2008)3 SCC 26 484 Moni Shankar versus Union of India and another has held
that the doctrine of unreasonableness is giving way to doctrine of
proportionality propounded by Wednesbury (supra) (para 17). 55. In one another judgment, reported in ( 2006)3 SCC 173
Commissioner of Police and others versus Syed Hussain , their
Lordships of Hon'ble Supreme Court have held that while
exercising power of judicial review, the Court may not merely follow
the Wednesbury principle but now adjudication involves a full blown
merit judgment. To reproduce para 12, to quote; As for example in Huang and Ors. v. Secretary
 of State for the Home Department , referring to R. v. Secretary of State of the Home
 Department , ex. P. Dale , it was held that in
 certain cases, the adjudicator may require to
 conduct a judicial exercise which is not merely
 more intrusive than Wednesbury, but involves a
 full-blown merits judgment, which is yet more
 than Ex p. Daly requires on a judicial review
 where the Court has to decide a proportionality
 issue." 56. In State of U.P. Versus Sheo Shanker Lal Srivastava and
others (2006)3 SCC 276, again Hon'ble Supreme Court has held 27 that the judicial review may require full blown merit judgment. The
principle involved in Syed Hussain has been reiterated. 57. In another case, reported in (2008)2 SCC 161 Jitendra
Kumar and others versus State of Haryana and another,
Wednesbury doctrine has been considered and Hon'ble supreme
Court held that now it is on terminal decline. Their Lordships of
Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the doctrine of unreasonableness
is giving way to the doctrine of proportionality (para 63). 58. The Constitution is organic body and it has to cope up the
situation with the change of time. While there is fall of morality in
public life and arbitrariness in administration is not uncommon, to
meet the situation, the Court shall cross the Wednesbury doctrine.
Unreasonableness, justness and fairness in action are the
grounds to interfere under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India. 59. Apart from this, when an action suffers from mala fide or
oppression or bias, the courts may lift the veil to find not only the
motive behind action but correctness of the allegations raised
against a person. 60. In view of above, since it has been stated that the action of
the State Government is oppressive in nature because of mala fide
and bias and because of the fact that the petitioner has
interrogated and searched the house of Ms. Mayawati (as she then
was), and the action taken is in consequence to it, the controversy
requires judicial scrutiny and interference under extraordinary
remedy of Article 226 of the Constitution of India. FACTUAL DISCUSSION 61. Shri Pritender Singh, Superintendent of Police in his report of
September 1, 2007 (Annexure No.SCA-2 to the supplementary 28 counter affidavit dated 7.4.2010) had charged the petitioner that
instead of using vehicles while returning from the place of combat,
the petitioner should have taken decision to return through jungle
on foot. The reason assigned by the Superintendent of Police is
that after killing of their colleague, ordinarily, dacoits take revenge
and to meet out such situation, the STF team should not have used
the vehicle but should have followed the procedure of "field craft
and tactics" marching back on foot. It has been noted by the
Superintendent of Police that there is only one connecting road,
hence obviously, the ambush was arranged by the dacoits on the
said road and this should have been visualised by the petitioner.
Because of lack of leadership quality, the petitioner took a decision
to return on the vehicles without keeping reasonable distance
between one vehicle to other and in consequence thereof, suffered
causalities. 62. However, a plain reading of the report of the Superintendent
of Police seems to be one sided. There is not even a whisper as to
why reinforcement force was not sent to the petitioner to help the
petitioner's team whole of the day. Why Shri Brijendra Rai in spite
of specific information received from the petitioner and
Superintendent of Police, Chitrakoot had not approached the spot
with necessary assistance for several hours though he was well in
touch on mobile phone ? 63. While filing an affidavit dated 17.12.2009, the petitioner had
filed details of call giving statement of facts in para 16 of the
affidavit. For convenience, para 16 is reproduced as under : 64. A perusal of Annexure No.SA-2 which contains the details of
 call shows various calls made on mobile of the petitioner and some
 of the deceased members of the team and calls received by them
 from various authorities. It shall be appropriate to reproduce the
 call detail chart, a copy of which has been filed as Annexure
 No.SA-2 to the supplementary rejoinder affidavit. To quote : Preetinder
 Singh
10 9415903255 Sh. Dhirendra Rai/Sh. 9415902832 Sh. 22.07.07 13.37.40 44 SADAH, 04F455139
 Dhirendra Rai Preetinder U.P.E. 3C85C
 Singh, SP, Manikpur
 Chitrakoot/Sh. These twenty-nine calls speaks volume, whereby the
 petitioner's cry for help remained futile. 65. It has not been disputed that mobile phones were provided to
 the petitioner and other authorities by the government. Even the
 calls were made by the petitioner during the course of encounter
 with dacoits between 8.00a.m. to 9.15a.m. have not been disputed
 by the respondents while filing supplementary affidavit dated
 25.11.2009, sworn by Shri Prakash Narayan, Deputy Secretary,
 Home. It is horrible to note that in spite of receipt of call when the
 encounter was going on, the Senior Superintendent of Police, STF
 admittedly had not provided any assistance on the pretext of
 engagement in operation of Daduwa gang. In case he was not in a
 position to provide back-up to the petitioner's team, then he should
 have requested to other authorities to send the reinforcement but
 the same was not done and burden has been shifted to the 33 petitioner's shoulder with regard to causality of six persons who
died in the ambush. It shall be appropriate to reproduce relevant
portion from para 23 of the affidavit dated 25.11.2009 sworn by the
Deputy Secretary, Home.: 66. While serving the charge-sheet, Shri Ghanshyam Ahirwar,
Circle Officer of the area has been mentioned as witness. When a
defence was taken by the petitioner that Shri Ghanshyam Ahirwar
had not sent any report against the petitioner, the respondents
have changed their stand that it was not Shri Ghanshyam Ahirwar
but one Shri Akhilesh Narayan Singh has held an enquiry and
submitted a report against the petitioner. This shifting of stand has
been taken at belated stage during course of hearing of the writ 34 petition while filing supplementary affidavit dated 25.1.2009, by Shri
Prakash Narayan Dubey, Secretary, Department of Home. 67. There is one other aspect of the matter which falsifies the
entire case set up against the petitioner. Shri Shailja Kant Mishra,
who was Addl. Director General of Police, (STF) at the relevant
time had made a statement before the enquiry committee on
22.1.2010 that the petitioner had duly informed the authorities with
regard to death of Maiyadeen in encounter and the allegation
raised against the petitioner is false and not correct. He stated on
oath that in spite of information communicated, local police had not
arrived to the scene of occurrence and kept the petitioner waiting
whole of day. The petitioner along with team members were
waiting for assistance from the local police and panchayatnama of
dead body of dacoit Maiyadeen but no one turned up though force
was available only at a distance of few kilometres. It shall be
appropriate to reproduce the statement of Shri Shailjakant Mishra,
the then Addl. Director General of Police, STF, a copy of which has
been filed as Annexure No.SA-I to the supplementary affidavit
dated 1.2.2010 : (अपर पुि लसमहािनदे श क) के पद पर कायर रत रहा हू ं ।
 मे रे दारा पुि लस उपमहािनरीकक, मुर ादाबाद पिरके त
 मुर ादाबाद को िलिखत पत सं ख या अपुम /पाकािल- िविवध/२००८-१८०५ िदनांि कत १९-११-२००८
 जो मे रे सामने है , व पदशर ख-१ है , पर मे रे हसताकर
 है व उसमे िलखे गये तथय को मै सवीकार करता हू ं । िदनांक २२-७-२००७ को पातः ०९ बजे के लगभग 35 शी धीरे न द राय, पुि लस उपाधीकक, एस०टी०एफ०
दारा ठािकया गै ग से एस०टी०एफ० की मुठ भे ड एवं गै ग
के सिकय सदसय मै य ादीन के मारे जाने की सूच ना
मोबाइल फोन दारा मुझे दी गई थी । िदनांक २२-७-२००७ को ततकालीन पुि लस
महािनदे श क, उ०प० शी िवकम िसं ह के साथ िदन मे
कु खयात दसयु दद ुआ के मारे जाने की सूच ना पर मै
है ल ीकापटर से जनपद िचतकू ट गया था और रासते मे
मे रे दारा पुि लसमहािनदे श क, उ०प० से ठोिकया गै ग से
मुठ भे ड की चचार की गइ थी वे सवतः इस मुठ भे ड की
बात से िभज थे । िदन मे ही लगभग १५००बजे शी
धीरे न द राय से मे र ी मोबाइल से पुन ः बात हु इ थी । िजला पुि लस अधीकक, िचतकू ट को ठोिकया गै ग से
एस०टी०एफ० टीम से हु इ मुठ भे ड की बात पता थी
इसिलए शी धीरे न द राय के उपर लगाया गया यह
आरोप िक िदनांक २२-७-२००७ को ठोिकया गै ग से
हु इ एस०टी०एफ० टीम की मुठ भे ड की सूच ना उनके
दारा िजला पुि लस को नही दी गइ, गलत है । जहां तक मे र ी जानकारी है बावजूद पयारप सूच ना
के जनपदीय पुि लस का कोइ बल शी धीरे न द राय के
ने त ृत व वाले एस टी एफ बल के साथ मुठ भे ड मे मारे
गये डकै त मै य ादीन के शव का पं च ायतनामा करवाने दे र
रात तक मौके पर नही गया । पुि लस मुठ भे ड मे मौके
पर पं च ायत नामा कराना कानून की ऎसी आवशयकता
है िजसे नकारा नही जा सकता । मे र ा मानना है िक
यिद समय से िदन मे िजला पुि लस बल मौके पर पहु ं च
कर मै य ादीन के शव का पं च ायतनामा दं ० प०सं ० के
पावधानो के अधीन मिजसटे ट से करवा ले त ा तो
एस०टी०एफ० का दल समय से वापस आ जाता और
यह द ुघर टना न होती । शी धीरे न द राय के उपर लगाया
गया यह आरोप सही नही है िक उनहोने मै य ादीन की
मुठ भे ड के बाद सथानीय पुि लस से समपकर नही िकया । वासतिवकता यह है िक सथानीय पुि लस सूच ना के 36 बावजूद घटनासथल पर नही पहु ं च ी और दणड पिकया
सं ि हता के पावधानो के तहत मौके पर ततकाल
मिजसटे ट से पं च ायतनामा नही कराया िजस कारण शी
धीरे न द राय एस०टी०एफ० टीम के साथ पितकू ल
पिरिसथितयो मे अनावशयक रप से १५ घं टे तक
भीषण जं ग ल मे रहने को बाधय हु ए । ठोिकया गै ग से एस०टी०एफ० दल की मुठ भे ड
के घटनासथल का िनरीकण भी मे रे दारा घटना के
अगले िदन ततकाल पुि लस महािनदे श क, उ०प० शी
िवकम िसं ह के साथ हे ल ीकापटर से जाकर िकया गया
था । घटनासथल के िनरीकण से सपष था िक दसयु
गै ग ठोिकया दारा आकिसमक रप से एमबुश िकये जाने
के बाद भी शी धीरे न द राय के ने त ृत व मे
एस०टी०एफ० के जवानो ने सवर था पितकू ल
पिरिसथितयो मे डकै तो का जम कर मुक ाबला िकया
तथा अपने जान की बाजी लगाकर अपने हिथयारो एवं
दल के द ू स रे सदसयो की जीवन रका का पयास िकया
। शी धीरे न द राय के िवरद लगाये गये यह आरोप
िक उनहोने कतर वय िशिथलता, अकमर णयता बरती, मे रे
िवचार से असतय एवं आधारहीन है । यह पशासिनक
दिषकोण से नयायोिचत नही है िक सथानीय पुि लस
अिधकारी िजनके समय से घटनासथल पर न पहु ं च ने के
कारण एस०टी०एफ० बल जं ग ल मे िघरा रहा , व राित
मे दे र से लौटने के कारण दसयु बल दारा
एस०टी०एफ० बल एमबुश हु आ, उन सथानीय
अिधकािरयो को दोषी न मानकर शी धीरे न द राय को
दोषी माना गया । शी धीरे न द राय को उक मुठ भे ड के समसत
पकरण मे दोषी माना जाना मे रे दिषकोण मे नयायोिचत
नही है । ------------ आरोिपत अिधकारी का पशनः- मै ठोिकया गै ग से 37 िदनांक २२-७-२००७ को एस०टी०एफ० टीम से हु ई
 दोनो मुठ भे ड ो का पभारी था । एस०टी०एफ० के
 पभारी अिधकारी के रप मे उक मुठ भे ड ो के िवषय मे
 मे रे िकसी अपचार को इं ि गत करते हु ए कया को ई
 मौिखक अथवा िलिखत िशकायत िजला पुि लस के
 िकसी सतर के अिधकारी अथवा एस०टी०एफ० के
 िकसी सतर के अिधकारी ने आपसे की थी । उतरः- नही । िजला पुि लस अथवा एस०टी०एफ० के
 िकसी अिधकारी ने कोइ िलिखत अथवा मौिखक
 िशकायत घटना के िदन से आज तक उक समबनध मे
 नही की है । (शै ल जाकानत िमश) (बदी पसाद िसं ह ) (धीर े न द राय)

अपर पुि लस महािनदे श क, पुि लस उपमहािनरीकक/ पुि लस उपाधीकक(िनलं ि बत )

उ०प० पावर कारपोर े श न विरष पुि लस अधीकक, समबद मुख या० पुि लस महािनदे श क

िलिमटे ड , शिक भवन,लखनउ मुर ादाबाद उ०प०, लखनउ । 68. The defence taken by the State while assailing the

petitioner's conduct does not seem to be only after thought but also
it shows that the persons who are responsible in not providing
assistance during the occurrence in question have been tried to be
shielded. In the supplementary counter affidavit dated 22.2.2010,
Shri Prakash Narain, Deputy Secretary, Home Department submits
that the petitioner had requested the Superintendent of Police,
Chitrakoot for carrying the body of Maiyadeen and in consequence
thereof, a team of police officials were sent at 3.30p.m., to support
S.T.F. Team. The petitioner had never demanded extra police force
to search Thokiya gang. Such averment on the part of the State is
disturbing and seems to have been cooked up in a very
irresponsible manner. It shall be appropriate to reproduce relevant
portion of para 9 of the affidavit dated 22.2.2010, filed by the State
: 69. For the sake of repetition, we are constraint to observe that
while imputing the petitioner's conduct, the State and its authorities
had tried to cook up a false case. Once it is admitted that during
the course of encounter at 8:24, 8:34, 8:36 and 8:37 A.M., the
petitioner contacted Senior Superintendent of Police, S.T.F. for help
who denied the same because of engagement to search out 39 Daduwa gang, then at no stretch of imagination, it could be
presumed that the petitioner had not requested for any assistance
with regard to enforcement or back-up of police to assist his team. 70. The Superintendent of Police, Chitrakoot while sending a team
of police at 3.30p.m. with Station House Officer, Karvi has forgotten
his responsibility to ensure that whether the team arrived at the
spot or not. The repeated requests made to various authorities
speak loudly that the petitioner and the members of the team
repeatedly have requested for extra police force but the same was
not provided. Even the alleged police force sent by the
Superintendent of Police, Chitrakoot at 3.30p.m. even after more
then six hours of the occurrence had not arrived to the place of
encounter and the petitioner's team was forced to come back on
their own strength. Virtually, it is failure on the part of the
administration in putting the life of S.T.F. Team in danger by not
sending additional force in spite of repeated requests made. For
two days and night, the members of the team were combing the
forest and encountered the dacoits. In such a situation, ordinarily,
it is not expected that they should come on foot from jungle area
instead of using their vehicle. Affidavits filed on behalf of State
containing self-contradictory facts shows concoction and
fabrication to persecute the petitioner, may be for extraneous
reasons. MIS-CONDUCT 71. U.P. Government Servant Conduct Rule 1956 ( in short, 1956
Rules) regulate the conduct of government servant employed in
connection with the affair of the State of U.P. Rule 3 (1) and 3 (2)
provides that every government servant shall at all times maintain
absolute integrity and devotion to duty. The government servant
shall at all times conduct himself in accordance with the specific or
implied orders of Government regulating behaviour and conduct 40 which may be in force. For convenience Rule 3 (1) and 3(2) is reproduced as under:- A plain reading of sub-rule (1) and (2) of Rule 3 of 1956 Rules
indicates that every government servant shall maintain at all times
integrity and devotion to duty. He or she shall be abide by specific
or implied order of the government regulating behaviour and
conduct which may be in force. 72. The U.P. Government Servant (Discipline and Appeal) Rules,
1999, in short, 1999 Rules prescribe procedure for taking
disciplinary action against the government servant. Under Rule 3,
minor and major penalties have been provided. Rule 4 deals with
suspension. For convenience, Rule 3 and and relevant portion of
rule 4 are reproduced as under : Provided that the amount of such fine shall in no
case exceed twenty-five per cent of the month's pay
in which the fine is imposed. Major Penalties- (I) Withholding of increments with cumulative
effect; (ii) Reduction to a lower post or grade or time
scale or to a lower stage in a time scale; (iii) Removal from the service which does not
disqualify from future employment; (iv) Dismissal from the service which disqualifies
from future employment. Explanation.- The following shall not amount to
penalty within the meaning of this rule, namely : 73. Now it is trite in law that while construing an Act, Rule or
Regulation each and every word, every line, para should be given
meaning and considered in its totality and not in piecemeal vide
2002 ( 4) SCC 297 Grasim Industries Limited Vs. Collector of
Customs ; 2003 SCC (1) 410 Easland Combines Vs. CCE; 2006 ( 5)
SCC 745 A.N.Roy Vs. Suresh Sham Singh and 2007 ( 10) SCC 528
Deewan Singh Vs. Rajendra Prasad Ardevi . 74. According to Maxwell, any construction which may leave
without affecting any part of the language of a statute should
ordinarily be rejected. Relevant portion from Maxwell on the 43 Interpretation of Statutes (12th edition page 36) is reproduced as
under:- 75. In AIR 2005 SC 1090, Manik Lal Majumdar and others Vs.
Gouranga Chandra Dey and others , Hon'ble Supreme Court
reiterated that legislative intent must be found by reading the
statute as a whole. 76. In 2006 ( 2) SCC 670, Vemareddy Kumaraswami Reddy
and another Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh , their Lordship of
Hon'ble Supreme Court affirmed the principle of construction and
when the language of the statute is clear and unambiguous court
can not make any addition or subtraction of words. 77. In AIR 2007 SC 2742, M.C.D. Vs. Keemat Rai Gupta and AIR
2007 SC 2625, Mohan Vs. State of Maharashtra, their Lordship of
Hon'ble Supreme Court ruled that Court should not add or delete
the words in statute. Casus Omisus should not be supplied when
the language of the statute is clear and unambiguous. 78. In AIR 2008 SC 1797, Karnataka State Financial Corporation
Vs. N. Narasimahaiah and others , Hon'ble Supreme Court held that
while construing a statute it can not be extended to a situation not
contemplated thereby. Entire statute must be first read as a whole
then section by section, phrase by phrase and word by word. While
discharging statutory obligation with regard to take action against a
person in a particular manner that should be done in the same
manner. Interpretation of statute should not depend upon
contingency but it should be interpreted from its own word and 44 language used. 79. House of Lord in the case of Johnson Vs. Marshall, sons and
Co. Ltd. reported in (1906) AC 409 (HL) where the issue was
whether the workmen was guilty of serious and wilful misconduct
their Lordships held that burden of proving guilt was on employer.
Misconduct is reduced to the breach of rule, from which breach
injuries actionable or otherwise could reasonably be anticipated is
depend upon each case. 80. In the case of Rasik Lal Vaghaji Bhai Patel vs. Ahmedabad
Municipal Corporation reported in (1985) 2 SCC 35, (Para 5)
Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that unless either in the certified
standing order or in the service regulations an act or omission is
prescribed as misconduct, it is not open to the employer to fish out
some conduct as misconduct and would not be comprehended in
any of the enumerated misconduct. 81. In the case of Union of India versus J. Ahmed (1979)2
SCC 286, Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that, deficiency in
personal character or personal ability do not constitute misconduct
for taking disciplinary proceedings. 82. In the case of A.L. Kalara vs. Project & Equipment
Corporation (1984) 3 SCC 316: Hon'ble Supreme court has held
that acts of misconduct must be precisely and specifically stated in
rules or standing orders and can not be left to be interpreted ex-
post facto by the management. 83. The case of Rasik Lal Vaghaji Bhai Patel vs. Ahmedabad
Municipal Corporation, (1985) 2 SCC 35, the apex court has held
that it is well settled that unless either in the certified standing order
or in the service regulations an act or omission is prescribed as
misconduct, it is not open to the employer to fish out some conduct 45 as misconduct and would not be comprehended in any of the
enumerated misconduct. (Para 5) 84. In the case of State of Punjab vs. Ex-Constable Ram Singh (1992) 4 SCC 54, Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the word
misconduct though not capable of precise definition as reflection
receives its connotation from the context, the delinquency in its
effect on the discipline and the nature of duty. It may involve moral
turpitude, it must be improper or wrong behaviour, unlawful
behaviour , wilful in character; forbidden act, a transgression of
established and definite rule of action or code of conduct but not
mere error of judgement, carelessness or negligence in
performance of the duty; the act complained of bears forbidden
quality or character. Its ambit has to be construed with reference to
the subject matter and context where in the terms occurs; regard
being had to the scope of the statute and public purpose it seeks to
serve. 85. In the case of G.M. Appellate Authority,Bank of India vs.
Mohd. Nizamuddin (2006) 7 SCC 410: Hon'ble Supreme court has
held that, it is well settled law that gravity of misconduct has to be
measured in terms of the nature of misconduct. (Para 9) 86. In Black's Law Dictionary Seventh Edition, the word, "mis-
conduct" has been defined as under : official misconduct. A public officer's corrupt
 violation of assigned duties by malfeasance,
 misfeasance, or nonfeasance. - Also termed
 misconduct in office; misbehavior in office;
 malconduct in office; misdemeanor in office;
 corruption in office; official corruption." 87. In Law Lexicon by P Ramanatha Aiyar, mis-conduct has been
defined as under : 88. Various meanings have been given of word, "mis-conduct" in
the celebrated book, "Words and Phrases" published by West
Publishing Company. The definition of mis-conduct in reference to
present context is reproduced as under : 89. Thus from the dictionary meaning, the word, "mis-conduct" 90. In a case, reported in State of Punjab versus Ex-Constable
Ram Singh (1992) 4 SCC 54, their Lordships of Hon'ble Supreme
Court have interpreted the word, "mis-conduct". To reproduce
relevant portion from the judgment of Ram Singh (supra), to quote; 91. In another judgment, reported in AIR 2002 SC 1124 Baldev
Singh Gandhi versus State of Punjab, their Lordships of Hon'ble
Supreme Court had occasion to define the word, "misconduct" which is reproduced as under : means wrong or improper conduct, unlawful
 behaviour, misfeasance, wrong conduct,
 misdemeanour etc. Since there are different
 meanings of that expression, the same has to be
 construed with reference to the subject and the
 context wherein it occurs. Regard has to be paid
 to the aims and objects of the statute." 92. In a case reported in AIR 1979 SC 1022, Union of India Vs.
J.Ahmed, their Lordship of Hon'ble Supreme Court held that failure
to take any effective preventive measures like error in judgement in
evaluating developing situation or failure to visit the scenes of
disturbance to perform duty in certain manner are shortcomings in
the personal capacity or degree of efficiency. Such allegation of
personal quality could not constitute misconduct for the purpose of
disciplinary proceedings. To reproduce relevant portion from the
judgement of J. Ahmed (supra), which is as under:- 93. The ratio of J.Ahmed (supra) in case taken into
consideration then the facts and circumstances and the material on
record do not constitute misconduct as the allegation relating to
petitioner is lack of leadership qualities though that too seems to be
not correct keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the
case. 94. In view of above, assuming the contention of the
Superintendent of Police, Chitrakoot as correct that the petitioner
should have come back along with team members on foot from
jungle area not through vehicle, it may be error in decision making
process but it shall not constitute mis-conduct under the service
rules which may call for disciplinary action under 1999 Rules. 95. There is no material on record which may indicate that the 50 decision taken by the petitioner was with oblique motive, mala fide
or for some unreasonable consideration. Rather the action of the
petitioner has been upheld by his Head of Department (supra),
hence also, the petitioner does not seem to have committed any
mis-conduct under the service rules. SUSPENSION : 96. The next question cropped up as to whether the State should
have suspended the petitioner for allegations on record. Rule 4 of
1999 Rules (supra) provides that the suspension shall not be
resorted to unless the allegation against the government servant is
so serious that in the event of their being established may
ordinarily warrant major penalty. There appears to be no element
of mis-conduct warranting major penalty. 97. The first proviso to Rule 4 of 1999 Rules makes it obligatory
upon the appointing authority, that before resorting the power of
suspension, necessary exercise must be done to find out whether
the allegations against the Government servant constitute
misconduct and is so serious that it shall warrant major penalty.
Meaning thereby, there should be effective application of mind by
the authorities to record that the allegations against the
Government servant shall ordinarily warrant major penalty. In the
present case, the original record placed before us, does not
indicate any such exercise done by the State Government. 98. Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case reported in AIR 1959 SC
1342 The Management of Hotel Imperial, New Delhi and others
Vs. Hotel Workers' Union , has held that power to suspend is the
creature of statute or contract and decision be taken keeping in
view the letter and spirit of statute. 99. In a case reported in 1974 ALJ 92, State of U.P. Vs. Jai
Singh Dixit (Alld.) a Special Bench of Allahabad High Court 51 consisting of five Hon'ble Judges while interpreting the provisions
contained in U.P. Punishment and Appeal Rules and power to
State Government to suspend a government servant held that "the
power of suspension arise when on an objective consideration the
appointing authority is of the view that a formal disciplinary inquiry
is expected or is proceeding". It has further been held that
suspension should not be resorted to unless the allegations against
the Government servant are so serious that in the event of their
being established, they may ordinarily be expected to warrant his
dismissal, removal or reduction. Meaning thereby suspension may
be resorted to only in case there is serious misconduct on the part
of government servant which may culminate into major penalty
after due enquiry. 100. A Division Bench of Allahabad High Court in a case reported
in 1997 (31) ALR 605, Ram Dular Tripathi vs. State of U.P. And
others while interpreting Rule 49-A (1) of the Civil Services (CCA
Rules) deprecated the suspension of government servant on flimsy
ground observing that such suspension will have adverse affect on
the service which may ultimately affect the working of the
government. The principle opined by Hon'ble Five Judges of this
Court in the case of Jai Singh Dixit (supra) has been reiterated and
followed. Their Lordship of Allahabad High Court in the case of Ram
Dular Tripathi (supra) further held that mere lack of efficiency or
skill does not ipso facto constitute misconduct and call for
suspension for a government servant. To reproduce relevant
portion from the judgement of Ram Dular Tripathi (supra) which is
as under:- 101. Hon'ble the Supreme Court in the case of State of
Orissa versus Bimal Kumar Mohanty reported in 1994(4) SCC
126, has ruled that order of suspension should not be passed as
an administrative routine in the mechanical manner. It should be on
consideration of gravity of alleged misconduct or the nature of
allegations imputed to a delinquent employee. In the case of A.
Radha Krishna Moorthy (supra), their lordships of Hon'ble Supreme
Court has ruled that disciplinary proceedings should not be initiated
on vague charges. The charge should be clear and specific
according to service rules and not of general nature. In the case of K. Sunkhendar Reddy (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court
deprecated the practice of passing selective orders of suspension. 102. Prof. Wade in his famous treatise, "Administrative Law" Ninth
Edition, after discussing the law on the subject, has observed that
the court will not accept the indiscriminate use of a power where
cases ought to be considered on their own merits. The learned
author further observed that the discretionary authority does not
have got unfettered discretion. 103. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case reported in AIR 1998
SC 477, Amarnath Ashram Trust Society Vs. Governor of U.P. ,
has held that discretion of the Government cannot be absolute and
unjusticiable. The same principle has been affirmed in 1993(3)
SCC 634, Hansraj H. Jain Vs. State of Maharastra and others;
AIR 1979 SC 1628: Ramana Dayaram Shetty Vs. International
Airport Authority of India and others and in catena of other
judgments of Hon'ble the Supreme Court. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court from time to time has cautioned the Government not to 53 demoralise the bureaucracy by arbitrary use of power. FABRICATION/MANIPULATION OF RECORD AND FALSITY OF
 CHARGES/ALLEGATIONS 104. The allegation against the petitioner more or less based on
the letter dated 1.9.2007, sent by the Superintendent of Police,
Chitrakoot. In the said letter, a finding has been recorded on the
basis of case diary No.22 dated 01.9.2007 filed with the
supplementary counter affidavit of the respondents sworn on
7.4.2010. It has been stated that the charge-sheet No.221/2007
dated 1.9.2007 was filed against the accused Thokia alias Ambika
Patel and Deepak alias Avdhesh Patel. Copy of the charge-sheet
No.221 dated 1.9.2007 has been annexed as Annexure No.SA-6 to
the supplementary affidavit dated 5.4.2010 filed by the petitioner. 105. A perusal of the charge-sheet reveals that it does not relate to
accused Thokia alias Ambika Patel and Deepak alias Avdhesh
Patel. It relates to the accused, namely Anis Ahmad, Kalyan Singh
Patel and Ram Prasad Vishwakarma. Thus, the letter dated
1.9.2007 sent by the Superintendent of Police recommending
action against the petitioner is at the face of record based on
unfounded facts. The date of occurrence has also been corrected
by ink pen from 22.2.2007 to 22.7.2007. It appears that the
Superintendent of Police, Chitrakoot had not acted with
responsibility to place correct facts while forwarding the letter dated
1.9.2007. 106. In the report dated 1.9.2007 of the Circle Officer, City,
Chitrakoot, the date of occurrence has been corrected and
converted from 22.2.2007 to 22.7.2007. Fluid seems to have been
used and the word, "Kshetradhikari, Nagar" has been substituted
by, "Prabhari Nirikshak, Karvi". 107. The alleged report of the Circle Officer, City dated 1.9.2007 54 contains a reference with regard to the report of the Investigating
Officer/Station House Officer, Karvi but the case diary filed with the
supplementary affidavit dated 7.4.2010 (Annexure No.SCA-4) does
not reveal existence of such report. Things seem to have been managed against the petitioner by
interpolation of records. 108. In the charge-sheet dated 26.5.2008, Shri Ghanshyam
Ahirwar, Circle Officer, City, Chitrakoot has been mentioned as
witness to prove the allegations. It has been stated that during the
course of enquiry, the petitioner had demanded the report of Shri
Ghanshyam Ahirwar. In response to which, the Superintendent of
Police, Chitrakoot, vide his letter dated 6.8.2008, directed Shri
Ghanshyam Ahirwar to send his report. Shri Ghanshyam Ahirwar
by FAX message dated 6.8.2008 had informed that he had not
conducted any preliminary enquiry. Copy of the FAX message of
Shri Ghanshyam Ahirwar has been filed as Annexure No.RA-2 to
the petitioner's affidavit dated 26.11.2008. This is an additional material which shows the temptation on
the part of the State Government to prosecute and punish the
petitioner. 109. During the course of enquiry, Shri Brijendra Rai, Station
House Officer, Karvi admitted before the enquiry officer that
whatever allegation has been raised by him against the petitioner is
in pursuance to the direction issued by the higher authorities, i.e.
by the Superintendent of Police and the Deputy Inspector General
of Police, Chitrakoot. The petitioner has specifically pleaded in
paragraph 38 of the rejoinder affidavit dated 26.11.2008 which has
not been denied by filing supplementary counter affidavit dated
25.11.2009(para 30 of the supplementary counter affidavit). 110. In the supplementary affidavit dated 5.4.2010, under para
10A to 10K, the petitioner has categorically stated that on 1.9.2007, 55 C.D. No.22 along with charge-sheet No.221 dated 1.9.2007 was
not in existence to facilitate the Superintendent of Police,
Chitrakoot to write the letter which became foundation to proceed
against the petitioner. While filing supplementary counter affidavit
sworn on 29.4.2010, the Deputy Home Secretary has not denied
this fact. The non-existence of the charge-sheet dated 1.9.2007
has been virtually accepted in para 8 of the supplementary counter
affidavit dated 29.4.2010 filed by the State. 111. In the supplementary affidavit dated 5.4.2010, the petitioner
has categorically stated that C.D. No.22 along with the charge-
sheet No.221/2007 was received in the office of the Circle Officer,
Chitrakoot on 24.9.2007. The supplementary charge-sheet of case
crime No.326 to 329 of 2007 dated 1.10.2007 has also been filed
as Annexure No. SA-5 to the supplementary affidavit dated
5.4.2010. Since the charge-sheet as well as the C.D. was received on
24.9.2007, there was no occasion for the Superintendent of Police,
Chitrakoot to send the letter dated 1.9.2007 condemning the
petitioner's conduct on the basis of these reports which was not in
the office of the Circle Officer or the Superintendent of Police,
Chitrakoot on 1.9.2007. 112. The charge-sheet does not contain relevant material with
regard to encounter in question as well as the telephonic calls
between the petitioner and other authorities requesting to send
back-up or reinforcement team. The letter of the Superintendent of
Police, Chitrakoot dated 26.7.2007 (Annexure No.RA-1) also
negates the prosecution version. 113. The magisterial enquiry has not been relied upon while
framing the charges against the petitioner which more or less
shows how the petitioner and his team had fought with the dacoits
without any help in spite of demand raised. 114. In view of above, the overwhelming evidence on record
shows that the authorities have taken decision to charge the
petitioner on unfounded grounds by fabrication of records suffering
from bias - may be for political or other unforeseen reasons. 115. It is unfortunate that the State of U.P. has acted in a very
high-handedness manner to charge the petitioner by cooking false
case by fabricating the record. A person who was awarded
President Medal has been charged because of his honesty and
uprightness in discharging his duty. 116. Virtually a fraud has been committed deliberately to initiate
disciplinary proceedings against the petitioner. According to
Black's Law Dictionary, 'fraud' has been defined as under : 117. In Law Lexicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyar, in the present
context, the definition of word, 'fraud' is as under : Explanation.- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect
 the willingness of a person to enter into a contract
 is not fraud, unless the circumstances of the case
 are such that, regard being had to them, it is the
 duty of the person keeping silence to speak, or
 unless his silence is in itself, equivalent to speech.
 [Act IX of 1872 (Contract) S. 17 .]" 118. While considering the fraud committed by persons holding
high offices, their Lordships of Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case
reported in 1987( 1) SCC 227 Shivajirao Nilangekar Patil versus
Dr. Mahes Madhav Gosavi and others observed that the things in
public life are happening otherwise which were never anticipated
before and there are glaring instances of misuse of power by
authority in position. Hence the courts are bound to take judicial
notice of the State action even on the ground of commission of
fraud or alike allegations but that should be done after close
scrutiny of the allegations in a cautious manner. To reproduce
relevant portion from the judgment of Shivajirao Nilangekar Patil (supra), to quote:- 119. Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case reported in 2003( 8) SCC
311 Ram Preeti Yadav versus U.P. Board of High School and
Intermediate Education and others observed with regard to fraud
as under : 15. In S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath , this 59 Court stated that fraud avoids all judicial acts,
 ecclesiastical or temporal." 120. In another case reported in 2003(8)SCC 319 Ram Candra
Singh versus Savitri Devi and others, their Lordships of Hon'ble
Supreme Court observed as under : 121. In a case reported in (2005)8 SCC 283 Lily Kutty 60 versus Scrutiny Committee, SC&ST, their Lordships of
Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that commission of fraud
shall be subversive to Constitution and fraudulent act shall not
be encouraged by the Court. 122. In Baburao Dagdu Paralkar versus State of
Maharastra (2005)7 SCC 605, their Lordships of Hon'ble
Supreme Court held that fraud may be committed expecting
advantage of from ill-will towards other. It is an act of
deliberate deception. It is a deception in order to gain by
another's loss. It is cheating for some advantage (paras 9 and 10). 123. In ( 2006)5 SCC 353 Prem Singh versus Birbal , Hon'ble
Supreme Court held that the fraudulent misrepresentation as
regards character of a document is void but fraudulent
misrepresentation as regards contents of document is
voidable. 124. In A.V. Papayya Sastry versus Government of Andhra
Pradesh (2007)4 SCC 221, Hon'ble Supreme Court ruled that
a judgment, decree or order obtained by playing fraud on the
court, tribunal or authority is a nullity. It can be challenged at
any time in a writ petition or appeal or revision or even in
collateral proceedings. 125. The aforesaid proposition of law has been reiterated by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case reported in
2008(13)SCC 170, 2008(2)SCC 383 State of Andhra
Pradesh versus A.S. Peter and 2008(8) SCC 54. 126. The facts, circumstances and the material on record
reveals that deliberately and consciously, the State or its
authorities have committed fraud by cooking up a false case to
persecute the petitioner on unfounded ground while initiating
disciplinary proceedings. MALAFIDE/BIAS 127. While assailing the order of suspension passed in
contemplation of departmental enquiry as well as charge-sheet, the
petitioner has stated that the disciplinary proceedings have been
initiated because of bias. Even if the charges are correct, they
shall not make out a case of mis-conduct. So far as the mis-
conduct is concerned, it has been dealt with in preceding
paragraphs of this judgment. The question cropped up is whether the impugned action has
been taken on account of bias or mala fide ? 128. As per government legal glossary the word 'bias' means; As per law lexicon by P. Ram Nath Aiyer the word 'bias'
means; 129. In the case of Secretary to Government, Transport
Department Vs Munuswamy Mudaliar , 1988 Supp. SCC 651, 62 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has defined the word 'bias' "as
predisposition to decide for or against one party without proper
regard to the true merits of the dispute". Going through the
meaning of bias mentioned above, it is borne out that the bias
means inclination or leaning of mind of Judge or Inquiry Officer in
favour or against any person which sways his mind to form an
opinion on the point in issue before him. 130. In the case of Ratan Lal Sharma Vs Managing Committee,
Dr. Hari Ram (Co-education) Higher Secondary School and
others , reported in (1993) 4 Supreme Court Case, Page 10, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court has classified three kinds of bias namely, (i) personal bias (ii) pecuniary bias and (iii) official bias. The
present case relates to the personal bias as well as official bias
because of political pressure. 131. In case of Ratan Lal Sharma (supra), Hon'ble Supreme Court
has held that in case the inquiry is challenged on the ground of
bias and malafidies, the petitioner is required to establish the real
likelihood of bias not the likelihood of bias. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court in this case has considered a number of its earlier judgments
on the points in issue. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has relied on
R.V. Sussex Justices, 1924 (1) KB. 256, wherein it has been held
that "answer to the question whether there was a real likelihood of
bias depends not upon what actually was done but upon what
might appear to be done". 132. The Hon'ble Supreme Court also relied on Halsbury's Laws
of England, 4th Edn., Vol.2, para 551 in its judgment wherein it has
been indicated that "the test of bias is whether a reasonable
intelligent man, fully apprised of all the circumstances would feel a
serious apprehension of bias". 133. The same principle had been laid down by the Hon'ble 63 Supreme Court in Manak Lal Vs Dr. Prem Chand , 1957, SCR 575
in which it has been held that "the test is not whether in fact, a bias
has affected the judgment; the test always is and must be whether
a litigant could reasonably apprehend that a bias attributable to a
member of the tribunal might have operated against him in the final
decision of the tribunal. It is in this sense that it is often said that
justice must not only be done but must also appear to be done". 134. In the case of Cantonment Executive Officer and others
Vs Vijay Deewani and others (2008) 12, Supreme Court Cases,
page 203, Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that "question of bias
is always question of fact. The court has to be vigilant while
applying the principle of bias as it primarily depends upon the facts
of each case, the court should only act on the real bias and not
merely likelihood of bias." 135. In case of Union of India and others Vs Prakash Kumar
Tandon reported in (2009) 2 Supreme Court Cases 541 the
Hon'ble Supreme Court found that the raid against the respondent
was conducted by the vigilance department and the Chief of the
vigilance department was appointed as Inquiry Officer. Keeping in
view of this fact Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the inquiry was
not fair. The appointment of Chief of vigilance department as
Inquiry Officer should have been avoided. The Tribunal as well as
High Court held the inquiry to be vitiated. The Hon'ble Apex Court
confirmed the judgment of the High Court. In view of above, it is
settled that the Inquiry Officer should be fair and impartial. It is not
necessary that he would have been witness in the inquiry or he
would have in any way interested in the subject matter of the
inquiry. If the Inquiry Officer has prejudices against the employee,
he cannot be said to be fair and impartial. The bias of Inquiry
Officer may not relate to subject under inquiry. It may relate to
different matter too which really causes apprehension that charged
person will not get justice from him. 136. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Punjab Vs.
V.K. Khanna & others : (2001) 2 SCC 330, has examined the
issue of bias and mala fide and observed as under: "Whereas fairness is synonymous with
 reasonableness-- bias stands included within the
 attributes and broader purview of the word 'malice'
 which in common acceptation means and implies
 'spite' or 'ill will'. One redeeming feature in the
 matter of attributing bias or malice and is now well
 settled that mere general statements will not be
 sufficient for the purposes of indication of ill will.
 There must be cogent evidence available on
 record to come to the conclusion as to whether in
 fact, there was existing a bias or a mala fide move
 which results in the miscarriage of justice... In
 almost all legal inquiries, 'intention as
 distinguished from motive is the all-important
 factor' and in a common parlance a malicious act
 stands equated with an intentional act without just
 cause or excuse." (Emphasis added)." 137. Apart from the above, it appears that the authorities have
acted maliciously to abuse the process of law. The State is under
obligation to act fairly without ill will or malice-- in facts or in law. 138. Passing an order for unauthorised purpose constitute malice
in law. ( Vide Punjab State Electricity Ltd. Vs. Nora Singh , (2005)
6 SCC 776; and Union of India Vs. V. Ramakrishnan , (2005) 8
SCC 394). 139. In the constituent assembly debate with regard to
bureaucracy in India, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar had persuaded to prefer
British system of bureaucracy, over and above the spoiled system
existing in America at that time. Lord Denning had appreciated the
work of members of Indian Civil Service because of their honesty,
knowledge and highest degree of integrity. But it appears that in
post independent India, the bureaucracy is gradually falling in
standard with regard to honesty, independence and commitment to
job expected from them and their action is influenced by political
masters. Present case is an example. 140. Prof. H.W.R. Wade in his famous treatise "Administrative
Law" (fifth edition page 58-59) had observed that it is expected
from the bureaucracy to possess high degree of detachment from
the party politics and publicity. The learned author proceeded to
observe as under: 141. De Smith, Woolf and Jowell in their famous treatise, "Judicial 66 Review of Administrative Action", (fifth edition page 521) while
defining the scope of the rule against bias and its content,
observed that there are three requirement of public law to quote:- 142. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of O. P. Gupta versus
Union of India and others 1987(4) SCC 328, has ruled, to quote:-- In view of above, the order of suspension in contemplation of
enquiry passed by the respondents State seems to be an act of
non-application of mind based on no material. 143. Though the petitioner had charged Ms. Mayawati, Chief
Minister of State who is alleged to have actuated the proceeding,
but as submitted by Shri H.P. Srivastava, no finding can be
recorded against her, since she has not been made party. The proceedings initiated may safely be inferred biased and
suffers from malice in law. HIGH AUTHORITY THEORY 144. It was vehemently argued by learned Chief Standing counsel
that no inference of malice or fraud can be drawn against the
government or its officers being decision taken at higher level.
Submission of learned Additional Chief Standing counsel would
have been correct before 5,6 decades or little earlier. Much waters
have flown from the rivers of the country diluting the moral
standard. Dr. Ambedkar was of the view that social and
constitutionally morality are necessary ingredients of the
democratic politics which seems to be missing. 145. We are conscious of the fact that the petitioner has attributed
malafide on the part of state authorities and even Chief Minister of
the State. However, no finding can be recorded since she has not
been made party. However, this court is not precluded to record
finding with regard to malice in law or commission of fraud while
initiating departmental proceeding and that we have done. 146. It is borne in mind that charges of personal hostility are easily
and very often made by persons who are subjected to penal or
quasi penal proceeding against those who initiate them hence
pleadings and material on record should be examined with close
scrutiny which we have done (supra) while recording the finding. 147. In a case reported in AIR 1964 SC 72, S. Pratap Singh Vs.
State of Punjab where allegations were raised against the Chief
Minister of State while initiating disciplinary proceeding their
Lordship of Hon'ble Supreme Court instead of throwing the
petitioner's case under the presumption of correctness at higher
level scrutinised the evidence and material placed by the petitioner
and decided the case. Their Lordships in the case of S.Pratap
Singh (supra) have observed as under:- 148. In one another case reported in C.S.Rawjee & Ors. v.
Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation , [1964] 2
SCR 330, Hon'ble Supreme Court had cautious that when
allegation is raised against the higher authorities court should be
cautious while scrutinising the related material. 149. In 1987 AIR 294, Shivajirao Nilangekar Patil Vs. Dr.
Mahesh Madhav Gosavi and others where allegation was raised
against the higher authorities and role of Chief Minister was also in
question Hon'ble Supreme Court reiterating the principle
enunciated by C.S.Rawjee (supra) observed that court should be
cautious to deal with the allegations of mala fide or cast aspirations
on holders of high office and power but the court cannot ignore the
probabilities arising from proven circumstances. It shall be
appropriate to reproduce relevant portion from the judgement of Shivajirao Nilangekar Patil (supra) as under:- 150. In a case reported in 1997 ( 6) SCC 169, Shri Arvind
Dattatraya Dhande Vs. State Of Maharashtra and other, Hon'ble
Supreme court held that there is unimpeachable and eloquent
testimony of the performance of the duties of higher authorities
courts should not shirk from his responsibility to protect the
Government officers. It was further observed that when the power
exercised malafide it tends to demoralise the honest officer who
efficiently discharges the duty of public office. 151. A Constitution Bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case
reported in AIR 1991 SC 101, DELHI TRANSPORT
CORPORATION Vs.D.T.C. MAZDOOR CONGRESS, had
reiterated the aforesaid proposition and observed that arbitrary
unbridled and naked power of wide discretion used by the
government tend to defeat the constitutional purpose. Court
should take into the actualities of life. It has further been observed
that sincere, honest and defeated subordinate officers are unlikely
lick the boots of the corrupt superior officer and they become
inconvenient for their superiors and tends to spoil the career of the
honest, sincere and devoted officers. Their Lordship observed
that one should circumspect, pragmatic and realistic to these
actualities of life to reproduce relevant portion, which is as under :- 152. With regard to presumption of fairness on the part of higher 71 authorities Hon'ble Supreme Court again proceeded to observe
(supra) that theory of higher authorities is unrealistic and has been
buried keeping in view the present scenario. 153. Transparency International India places our country at Serial
No.84 in the list of corrupt countries. Substantial number of
persons throughout country holding high offices like Cabinet
Minister, Chairman of the Corporation and other bodies have got
criminal antecedents. Warren Anderson, the main accused
involved in the Bhopal disaster occurred on 2/3.12.1984 was
arrested on 7.12.1984, released on personal bond and sent to
Delhi in State plane to fly for America. This could not have been
possible without the meeting of mind at higher level. 154. Criminalisation of politics now is a known event in this
country. According to the news item published in Rastriya Sahara
dated July 6, 2010, the State Minister of the State of U.P. Shri
Ratan Lal and his two sons have been punished to undergo for
imprisonment for one year by the Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Shivpuri, Madhya Pradesh on account of possession of
unauthorised arms. Against some other ministers/legislatures,
criminal cases are alleged to be pending. The former Chief Minister
of Jharkhand is involved in misappropriation of government fund
which is alleged to be more than Rs.4000 crore. According to the
newspaper reports, the Minister of another State is involved in
illegal mining work. Charge-sheet has been filed against some of
the Hon'ble Judges of this Court in Ghaziabad P.F. Scam case. In
such situation, country does not seem to be ready to extend favour 72 to persons holding high offices by applying the principle of high
authority and power of judicial review cannot be restricted or
narrowed down on this presumptive ground. 155. Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer, a former Judge of Hon'ble Supreme
Court showing his astonishment in an article, published in
newspaper, " The Hindu" on 14.6.2010 observed as under : A country "Bharat" where such things happen and morality in
personal and public life is at its lowest ebb, respect to rule of law
deteriorating speedily, invoking of "High Authority Theory" to defend
the action of the State shall cause irreparable loss and injury to the
country resulting in chaos in society in due course of time. 156. In a recent judgement reported in JT 2010 (4) SC 478,
S.Khushboo Vs. Kanniammal and another, their Lordship
reiterated the well settled proposition of law that it is paramount
duty of superior court to say that the person who is innocent at the
face of record should not be persecuted and while doing so court
may adjudicate the disputed question of law and fact to check the
abuse of power, to reproduce relevant portion:- 157. According to Legal Maxims, "Acts Exteriora indicant interiors
secrets." i.e., act indicate the intention, is applicable in the present
case with full vigour. In Broom's Legal Maxims (Tenth Edition: Page 200) it has been discussed as under: 158. In view of above submission of learned Additional Chief
Standing counsel does not seem to carry weight more so when
from the discussion made (supra) petitioner seems to has been
persecuted and charged for misconduct on the basis of frivolous
documents. Action should have been taken against the authorities
who could not sent additional force in time to assist the petitioner.
Decision to take disciplinary action against petitioner is unfortunate
and shows that bureaucracy had lost its flavour to tender correct
and firm advise to the government in the State of U.P. to maintain
rule of law. FINDING 159. From the pleading, evidence and material discussed in the
preceding paras it appears that the petitioner as the member of
team of CBI had searched the premises of Ms. Mayawati as she
then was (now Chief Minister of the State of U.P.) and also 74 interrogated her. There is no factual denial on the part of
respondent while filing affidavit. However, learned counsel for the
petitioner during the course of argument stated that he does not
dare to implead Ms. Mayawati as respondent in the present writ
petition, hence, no malafide may be attributed to the Chief Minister
of the State without complying with the principle of natural justice.
However, from the material on record, action against the petitioner
seems to suffer from malice in law being based on no evidence or
the evidence which does not constitute misconduct and also based
on records which seems to have been fabricated. 160. In view of above, to sum up the finding:- Government must look into this aspect of the matter and adopt
corrective measure to tone up its administration. (VI) Action taken against the petitioner does not only suffer from
malice in law but seems to be oppressive. Such action shall
demoralise the police force and no officer will take risk on his own
to fight the terrorist or the dacoits. It is high time when government
must ponder and introspect to negate the extraneous
considerations so as to encourage the police force and paramilitary
force to fight with antisocial elements without any feeling of
consequential persecution in case the action is bonafide with
commitment to duty and within the frame of law. Assuming the
allegation correct, misconduct is not made out more so keeping in 76 view the statement of Shri Shailja Kant Mishra, A.D.G.P STF/HOD. (VII) Submission of the learned Addl. Chief Standing Counsel to
defend the State action against the petitioner on the principle of
"high authority theory" does not seem to be available in the Indian
context keeping in view the moral devaluation in our system, more
so on account of the fact that the action against the petitioner
seems to be oppressive, based on no evidence. (VIII) Fabrication of records and commission of fraud vitiates even
solemn act of the State and it shall be bad day for the country in
case this Court remains a mute spectator and permit the
government to persecute an officer for extraneous reasons by
commission of fraud. 161. Mahatma Gandhi, Father of Nation has emphasised to
maintain highest standard in personal life by constitutional
functionaries. To quote : The minister should be completely free from all the
 prejudices against any caste or creed and from any 77 favouritism towards his old relatives and friends. This
 private life should be so simple that it inspires respect
 or even reverence. Bungalows and motor cars should
 be ruled out of course if he has to go far or on an
 urgent business, he should certainly use a car but its
 use should be definitely very limited. I see that the car
 may perhaps be quite necessary. They members of
 ministers' family including children should do all the
 household works themselves, servants should be used
 as sparingly as possible. These rooms should be not
 furnished with expensive foreign made furniture, such
 as sofas, cupboards and chairs especially at present,
 when crores of his countrymen do not have a single
 cotton mattress to sit upon or even a piece of cloth to
 wear." 162. Lord Denning had rightly said in his famous treatise, "The
discipline of Law" (page 61) to quote: However, in our country, the procedure to secure personal
freedom as well as to prevent the abuse of power both, seems to
be not upto the mark. 163. It is not expected from the constitutional functionaries or the
authorities to abuse their power for their vested interest or take
revenge or teach lesson or to serve their own children, friends,
relatives or associates, giving go-bye to rules and regulations.
According to Geeta, the persons holding high offices are torch
bearers and the society follows their leaders in day to day life. 164. The great Indian freedom fighter, philosopher, scholar and
spiritual leader Sir Aurobindo long back taken note with regard to
personal interest vis-a-vis social and national interest. The
compilation of various lecturers/writings between 1915 to 1918 has
been published under the title "The Human Cycle The Ideal of 78 Human Unity War and Self-Determination". To quote relevant
passage from the said book (supra) : Learned author further proceeded to observe as under : According to Sir Aurobindo, the service of the State stand at
highest pedestrial of morality. To quote : 165. Moral values propounded by Britishers for civil servant (ICS)
namely; poverty, neutrality and anonymity seems to at lowest ebb.
Poverty speaks for honesty and neutrality speaks for firm, polite
and lawful advise to government. In case, order is passed or
request is made to do a thing against the rules or impossible to
comply with, it is expected from civil servants to explain the
position politely and firmly. Anonymity speaks to serve people
silently to meet the constitutional goal. All these virtues expected
from the bureaucracy seems to be eroding and time has come to
rejuvenate the bureaucracy so that no one may suffer because of
inaction or unlawful action on the part of civil servants. 166. Petitioner seems to have suffered from mental pain and 79 agony apart from social humiliation for no fault on his part. Since,
action of the state government is oppressive in nature, suffer from
bias, it is a fit case where exemplary cost should be awarded to
meet the ends of justice in view of law settled by Hon'ble Supreme
Court (2005) 6 Supreme Court Cases 344, Salem Advocate Bar
Association (II), Vs. Union of India . 167. In view of above, the writ petition deserves to be allowed with
exemplary cost : (ii) It shall be open for the State of U.P. to recover the cost from
the persons who are responsible to initiate departmental
proceedings against the petitioner on the basis of fraudulent
records by holding an enquiry in accordance with law. (iii) It shall be open to the petitioner to proceed in accordance
with law for injustice done to him against the authorities concerned. (iv) The Chief Secretary, Government of U.P. is directed to
constitute a Committee and hold an enquiry for the lack of
assistance to the petitioner by not providing necessary back-up
with police force during the course of encounter with dacoits on
22.5.2007 in spite of due communication and cry for help by the
petitioner repeatedly as observed in the body of the judgment and
take appropriate action against the authorities who were negligent
in their duty. Let the Chief Secretary, Government of U.P. file compliance
report with affidavit within two months. Registry to take follow up
action. The writ petition is allowed accordingly. (Justice S.C. Chaurasia) (Justice Devi Prasad Singh)
 July 15, 2010
kkb/