The Prosecution has filed the charge-sheet against
 accused Sunil Kumar u/s 457 / 380 / 411 IPC. It is the
 case of the prosecution that accused Sunil Kumar had
 committed house breaking in the house of Madan Lal
 Mahajan i.e. House No. 32, Ram Vihar, Delhi on
 06.04.2015 in between 8:30 p.m. to 9:15 p.m. and

FIR No. 232/15 1 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 committed theft of Sony play station-3 and the said
 stolen Sony Play station-3 was recovered from his
 possession and thereby, accused Sunil Kumar
 committed the offences punishable u/s 457 / 380 / 411 IPC. FIR was registered and investigation was done.
 Accused was arrested and charge-sheet was filed
 against him. 2. Cognizance of the offences was taken on the basis of
 charge sheet. Copies were supplied to the accused u/s
 207 Code of Criminal Procedure and charges were
 framed against the accused for the offences
 punishable u/s 457 / 380 / 411 IPC, to which he pleaded
 not guilty and claimed trial. 3. To prove its case, the prosecution has examined the
 following witnesses:- Thereafter, accused opened the back side gate and he
 was called inside. He saw that accused had put one
 video game, biscuit and bottle of Pepsi in a bed sheet
 and he had kept said bed sheet in the bathroom. He
 had inquired accused in this regard but he did not give
 satisfactory reply. He immediately made a call to Mr.
 Madan Lal Mahajan who instructed him to call at 100

FIR No. 232/15 3 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 no. and he made a call at 100 number. Police arrived
 at the spot. Police recorded his statement i.e. Ex.
 PW1/A. He had pointed out the place of incident to
 police and police prepared the site plan at his
 instance. Police had kept abovesaid broken lock of
 back side gate in a cloth and same was sealed and
 seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW1/B. Police had also
 taken the abovesaid video game in their possession
 vide seizure memo Ex. PW1/C. Accused was arrested
 vide arrest memo Ex. PW1/D and his personal search
 was conducted vide personal search memo Ex. PW1/E.
 He correctly identified the accused, but later on, he
 denied the same. He correctly identified the case
 property. He was cross-examined by Ld. Counsel for the
 accused and Ld. APP for the State. b) PW-2 is Sh. Parveen Mahajan who deposed
 that in the month of April, 2015, he was residing at E-
 10/1, Krishna Nagar, Delhi with his family. In the night
 of that day, he received call of his uncle namely Sh.
 Madan Lal who informed him that he was in
 Saharanpur at that time and he further asked him to
 visit his house situated in Delhi and having address
 32, Ram Vihar. He further informed him that, in their
 absence, theft took place in their said house and thief
 was apprehended. Thereafter, he went to the above
 said house of his uncle and saw that 10-12 persons
 were gathered there. They informed him that boy

FIR No. 232/15 4 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 apprehended by them had committed theft in the
 house of his uncle. Accused boy had broken the lock
 of house of his uncle and he had stolen a game having
 name as PSP. He made a call to the police. Police
 arrived at the spot and accused boy was handed over
 to them. Police also seized above said game as well as
 broken lock. Police enquired from him with regard to
 present matter. Police did not record his statement. He
 correctly identified the accused. He was cross-examination by Ld. APP for the
 State and Ld. Counsel for the accused. c) PW-3/ASI Nathu Singh (Retired) deposed
 that on 07.04.2015, he was posted as Head Constable
 at Police Station Anand Vihar. On that day, he was
 working as Duty Officer. On that day, at about 12.30
 a.m., Constable Sachin produced before him a rukka
 sent by SI Radhey Shyam. He lodged kaimi vide DD
 entry 4A in this regard Ex. PW3/A. He also made
 endorsement on the rukka Ex. PW3/B. On the basis of
 abovesaid rukka, he got recorded FIR bearing no.
 232/2015, PS Anand Vihar in the present matter and
 same is Ex. PW3/C. After registration of FIR, he
 handed over copy of FIR and original rukka to
 Constable Sachin to hand over the same to SI Radhey
 Shyam for investigation. He was cross-examined by
 Ld. Counsel for the accused. d) PW-4/Sh. Madan Lal Mahajan deposed that
 he did not remember the date of incident but it was in

FIR No. 232/15 5 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 the year 2015. Accused Sunil Kumar was working as
 Servant at his house. On that day, he along with driver
 Sunil, his sister and his wife went to Sirsawa. Accused
 left them at Air force station Sirsawa. After leaving
 them, accused returned to house of PW 4. PW4
 received telephone call from Sh. Parmod Kumar, who
 informed to him that accused Sunil Kumar had broken
 the locks and entered into his house and that he had
 stolen play station. He asked Pramod to call at 100
 number. PW4 deposed that he was not having bill of
 the said play station. Later on, police official recorded
 his statement. He correctly identified the accused and
 the case property. He was cross-examined by Ld. Counsel for the
 accused. e) PW- 5/SI Radhey shyam deposed that on
 06-04-2015 he was posted at PS Anand Vihar as Sub-
 Inspector and his duty hours were 08:00 pm to 08:00
 am on emergency duty. On that day, at about 11:30
 pm, he received DD No. 35A regarding theft in the
 house and the same is EX. PW5/A. Thereafter, he
 alongwith Ct. Sachin went to the spot i.e. house no.
 32, Ram Vihar, Delhi where they met complainant
 Pramod Kumar and Praveen Mahajan alongwith
 apprehended person and they handed over the
 apprehended person to him and they also produced
 case properties i.e. Play station 3 (video game) and
 one broken lock. He interrogated the apprehended

FIR No. 232/15 6 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 person, who revealed his name as Sunil Kumar.
 Thereafter, he recorded complaint of the complainant
 which is EX. PW1/A. Thereafter, he prepared rukka as
 EX. PW5/B and same was handed over to CT. Sachin
 for registration of FIR and he left the spot. He
 prepared site plan at the instance of the complainant
 as EX. PW5/C. After sometime Ct. Sachin came back to
 the spot alongwith original rukka and copy of FIR and
 handed over the same to him. Thereafter, he had
 written the FIR number on the site plan. Thereafter, he
 seized the said broken lock with the help of white
 colour cloth and sealed with the seal of RSB. After
 using the seal, the Seal was handed over to Ct. Sachin
 by him. The seizure memo of the said lock is EX.
 PW1/B. Thereafter, he seized the said Play station 3,
 vide seizure memo EX.PW1/C bearing my signature at
 the point X. Thereafter, he arrested accused vide
 arrest memo EX. PW1/D and personal search memo
 EX. PW1/E. Further, he recorded supplementary
 statement of the complainant and statement of
 Praveen Mahajan. Thereafter, he alongwith Ct.
 Sachin, accused and said case properties went to the
 PS and case properties deposited in Malkhana. After
 getting done medical examination of the accused,
 accused was sent to lock up. He recorded statement
 of Ct. Sachin. On the next day i.e. 07-04-2015 accused
 was produced before the court and sent to the JC.
 PW5, he recorded statement of the owner namely

FIR No. 232/15 7 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 Madanlal Mahajan of the said house i.e. house no. 32,
 Ram vihar, Delhi. After completion of the
 investigation, he prepared the charge sheet and same
 was submitted in the court. PW5 correctly identified
 the accused during his testimony. He was cross-examined by Ld. Counsel for the
 accused. f) PW-6/Ct. Sachin Kumar deposed that on
 06.04.2015, he was posted at PS Anand Vihar as
 Constable and his duty hours were 8 pm to 8 am. On
 that day, he was present at the PS and at about 11.30
 pm, SI Radhey Shyam received DD Entry vide No. 35-A
 regarding theft in the house. Thereafter, he along with
 IO/SI Radhy Shyam went to the spot i.e., house no. 32,
 Ram Vihar, Delhi, where they met complainant
 Pramod Kumar and Praveen Mahajan and they had
 already apprehended one person namely Sunil Kumar
 and they narrated all the incident to the IO.
 Thereafter, they handed over accused Sunil Kumar
 and case properties i.e. play station-3 (video game)
 and one broken lock to police. Thereafter, IO prepared
 rukka on the basis of complainant's statement and
 same was handed over to him for registration of FIR.
 Thereafter, he along with original rukka went to the PS
 and same was handed over to the Duty Officer. After
 some time, Duty Officer handed over to him a copy of
 registered FIR and original rukka and he came back to
 the spot and handed over the same to IO. Thereafter,

FIR No. 232/15 8 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 IO prepared site plan at the instance of the
 complainant. Further, IO seized the case properties
 with the seal of RSB and after sealing the same, the
 seal was handed over to him and the seizure memos
 of case properties, which are Ex.PW1/B and Ex.PW1/C.
 Thereafter, IO arrested accused Sunil Kumar vide
 arrest memo and personal search memo Ex.PW1/D
 and Ex.PW1/E. Thereafter, IO recorded supplementary
 statement of complainant Pramod Kumar and
 statement of Praveen Mahajan. Thereafter, he along
 with IO and accused along with case properties went
 to the PS and case properties deposited in the
 malkhana. After got conducting medical examination
 of accused, accused was sent to lock-up. IO recorded
 his statement. He correctly identified the case
 property. He was cross-examined by Ld. Counsel for the
 accused. 4. Thereafter, prosecution evidence was closed. The
 statement of accused under Section 313 r/w Section
 281 Code of Criminal Procedure was recorded wherein
 accused denied all the allegations and documents
 executed by the prosecution and stated that he has
 been falsely implicated in this case. Accused preferred
 not to lead defence evidence. Accordingly, defence
 evidence was closed. 5. Final arguments are heard and record is carefully
 perused. Sh. Krishan Murari, Ld. APP for the State has
 submitted that testimony of prosecution witnesses
 proved the case of the prosecution beyond reasonable
 doubt. Ld. APP for the State further submitted that
 prosecution witnesses identified the accused in their
 testimonies as the person who was apprehended at
 the spot with stolen case property. Ld. Counsel for the
 accused has argued that the arguments advanced by
 the Ld. APP for the State are fallacious and merely
 based on suppositions and based on a wrong and
 misconceived premise. It is submitted that testimony
 of PW 1, who is complainant in this case, is not
 reliable and credible as he turned hostile during cross-
 examination. It is further submitted that PW-2 has also
 not supported the case of prosecution. It is further
 submitted that PW-4 is a hearsay witness and his
 testimony is not admissible to fix the guilt of accused.
 It is further submitted that accused has been falsely
 implicated. Ld. Counsel for accused persons further
 submitted that there are several infirmities in the
 statement of complainant and his testimony is not
 reliable to fix the guilt of accused person. It is further
 submitted that there are several contradictions and
 discrepancies in the testimonies of prosecution
 witnesses which remains unexplained and raise
 serious doubt on the case of the prosecution. 6. Let us first discuss the provisions of law relevant for
 the purpose of this case. Section 457 IPC prescribes
 punishment for lurking house trespass or house
 breaking by night in order to commit offence
 punishable with imprisonment. The essential
 ingredients to constitute the offence of house
 breaking at night are:- 7. Section 380 IPC prescribes punishment for theft in a
 dwelling house. The theft is defined under Section 378 IPC. The essential ingredients to constitute an offence
 under Section 380 IPC are as follows:- 8. The essential ingredients to prove an offence under Section 411 IPC are:- 9. At the outset, it is relevant to mention that it is a
 cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that an
 accused is presumed to be innocent. The burden lies
 on the prosecution to prove the guilt of accused
 beyond reasonable doubt. The prosecution is under a
 legal obligation to prove each and every ingredient of
 offence beyond any doubt, unless otherwise so
 provided by any statute. This general burden never
 shifts, it always rests on the prosecution. ( Daya Ram
 v. State of Haryana, (P&H)(DB ) ,1997(1) R.C.R.

FIR No. 232/15 12 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 (Criminal) 662). It is also a well-settled law that in
 case two views are possible, the benefit of doubt is to
 be given to accused. 10. In the case at hand, there are three public witnesses
 who have been examined by the Court, one of them
 being an eye witness. PW1 Pramod Kumar is an eye
 witness. He deposed to have visited the house of Sh.
 Madan Mohan Mahajan on the night of 07.04.2015
 with a view to sleep there in his absence, as per
 instruction of Madan Mohan Mahajan. PW1 deposed
 that when he visited the house, he found the back
 side gate of the house broken and locked from inside.
 On his shouting, accused responded from inside that
 he was inside and had been sent by Sh. Madan Mohan
 Mahajan there. When he entered inside, he found that
 accused had put one video game, bottle of Pepsi and
 biscuit on a bedsheet in the bathroom. He informed
 Sh. Madan Mohan Mahajan and, on his instructions, he
 called police. Further, on arrival of police, broken lock
 of backside gate was seized in his presence and video
 game was also taken into possession of police and
 accused was arrested. Coming to testimony of
 PW1/Pramod Kumar, his testimony is shrouded in
 doubt and does not at all inspire confidence. The
 version in his testimony is remarkably different from
 his Complaint Ex. PW1/A. In his Complaint, he has
 stated that he works as a washerman and on

FIR No. 232/15 13 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 '06.04.15', owner of house no. 32 had been to
 Sirsawa, Saharanpur with his driver i.e., accused Sunil,
 leaving the job of taking care of his house in his
 absence, to Pramod Kumar and on the same day,
 accused committed theft in the said house. However,
 in his testimony, he deposed that Madan Lal Mahajan
 had left for Saharanpur on '07.04.15' and theft was
 committed on said date. Further, PW1 has stated in
 his Complaint Ex. PW1/A that when he went to sleep in
 the house of Madan Lal at about 09:15 p.m., he found
 backside lock broken and voice coming from inside
 and when he shouted 'chor chor', accused replied that
 it was him inside and when PW-1 visited inside the
 house, he found that accused was inside the house
 with playstation-3 and on being confronted by PW1
 that he was expected to be back after two days and
 how come accused was present inside the house, he
 got scared and told PW1 to forget everything and not
 to tell Madan Lal about it. However, in his testimony,
 PW-1 did not at all mention that he confronted the
 accused saying that he was expected to be back after
 two days. Instead, PW1 deposed that on finding the
 backside gate lock broken, he had shouted and
 gathered neighbours and on his shouting, accused
 had replied from inside that he had been sent there by
 Sh. Madan Lal, the house owner. Name of the
 neighbours is not revealed by PW-1 and no such
 neighbour was joined in the investigation. It is further

FIR No. 232/15 14 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 observed that in the complaint Ex. PW-1/A, it is
 mentioned that PW-1 had informed Madan Lal, who in
 response had called his acquaintance and that
 acquaintance of his had called police at 100 number,
 resulting in the arrival of the police at the spot.
 However, in his testimony, to the contrary, PW-1
 deposed that Mr. Madan Lal Mahajan had instructed
 PW-1 to call at 100 number and it was PW-1 who
 called police at 100 number. PW-4 deposed to have
 told PW-1 to call at 100 number whereas PW-2
 deposed in his examination-in-chief that he made a
 call to the police but during his cross-examination, he
 denied having made any such call. Coming to the
 testimony of PW-4 Madan Lal, in his cross-
 examination, he brings a new fact. He deposed that "I
 left my servant namely Pramod to look after my house
 in the night". However, PW-1 neither in his complaint
 Ex. PW-1/A nor in his testimony projected himself as a
 servant of PW-4. PW-1 instead stated that he was a
 washerman by profession and doing the work of
 ironing of clothes in the locality. 11. No photograph of the premises that house no. 32,
 Ram Vihar has been filed on record to suggest that
 any backdoor lock was broken. It is rather strange that
 no investigation has been conducted by IO to know,
 how and by what conveyance, would accused manage
 to return from Saharnpur on the same day, when he

FIR No. 232/15 15 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 was supposed to stay out of station for two days and
 had accompanied PW-4 and his family as a driver to
 Saharanpur. PW-4 deposed that accused had dropped
 them at Airforce Station Sirsawa, Saharanpur and
 thereafter, returned to house of PW-4. IO did not even
 investigate to know at what time PW-4 in his vehicle,
 had left for Sirsawa alongwith accused driver Sunil
 and whether it was possible for Sunil to return at
 around 9:00 p.m. to Delhi by on the same day and
 whether accused Sunil had returned to Delhi in the
 same vehicle and further, why was he allowed to
 leave for Delhi by PW4, when he was expected to
 return after two days. In the complaint Ex. PW1/A, PW-
 1 has stated that he had returned to the house of
 Madan Lal after having dinner at about 9:15 pm and
 found accused inside the house but in his testimony,
 he deposed that, it was about 08-09 pm, when he
 came to sleep at house of Madan Lal after having
 dinner and found accused inside the house of Madan
 Lal. PW1 is inconsistent in his testimony regarding
 date, time and manner of occurrence. 12. PW-1 made improvements in his testimony and
 deposed that he had seen that accused had put one
 video game, biscuit and bottle of Pepsi in a bedsheet
 kept in the bathroom. This version is not mentioned in
 complaint Ex. PW-1/A and did not even come up
 during investigation of the case. Moreover, no

FIR No. 232/15 16 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 bedsheet, biscuit and bottle of Pepsi were recovered
 and seized in the case. Not only this, but even play
 station 3 was never produced in the court and no
 secondary evidence was led in this regard either. PW-4
 deposed in his testimony that he did not have bill of
 the play station 3. According to PW-1, the back door
 lock had been broken by accused but there is no
 investigation to suggest that any back door lock was
 broken and if so, in what manner. No
 instrument/implement of house/lock breaking was
 recovered or seized in the case. There is no
 investigation by IO to know, how was the lock opened.
 All of the discrepancies and improvements in the
 testimony of PW-1 and further the loopholes in the
 investigation assume more significance, when cross-
 examination of PW1 is perused. He deposed in his
 cross-examination that he was doing ironing of clothes
 in front of House no. 32 for last about 14 years. He
 further deposed that he was unaware as to who was
 living in House no. 32 and was also unaware regarding
 servants in the said house. He further deposed that no
 owner of the adjoining premises used to hand over
 keys to him to look after their premises in their
 absence. Now the question is if PW-1 was neither a
 servant of PW-4, nor acquainted with him, how could
 the keys of the premises of House no.32 be handed
 over to PW-1? It is further seen that during his further
 cross-examination, when PW-1 was asked about these

FIR No. 232/15 17 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 things, he gave vague and evasive replies. He
 deposed that "I had no knowledge that on
 07.04.2015, the owner of premises bearing no. 32,
 had went (sic) to any place and handed over me the
 key to look after the premises in their absence". PW-1
 deposed that he had not met PW-4 on 07.04.2015 or
 08.04.2015 at any point of time. Hence, it is highly
 doubtful that PW-4 would entrust the keys of his house
 to PW-1. PW-1 took a departure from the version in his
 examination-in-chief while under cross-examination by
 Ld. Defence counsel and does not come up as a
 trustworthy witness. He turned hostile during his
 cross-examination. 13. PW2 Praveen Mahajan is a 'hearsay witness' to the
 alleged incident of theft, who deposed that he was
 informed about the theft in the house of his uncle
 Madan Lal Mahajan by his Uncle and thereafter, he
 had visited the house of his Uncle, where accused was
 found by him to have been already apprehended and
 about 10-12 persons were gathered there. He was
 informed by those persons that accused had
 committed theft in the house of Madan Lal.
 PW2/Praveen Mahajan turned hostile in his cross-
 examination. Testimony of PW2 is relevant only in so
 far as him allegedly finding the accused at the spot,
 having been apprehended by public persons, is
 concerned. Though he deposed in his examination-in- chief that he had made a call to police, he denied it in
 his cross-examination. No such PCR call record was
 proved on record either to suggest that PW2 had
 made a call to police and document Ex. PW5/A merely
 suggest that Constable Rahul had forwarded the
 intimation of theft to local police station. PW2 failed to
 identify the case property i.e. and lock when produced
 before him during his cross-examination. Further, he
 also deposed that he could not even identify the
 recovered play Station, if the same is produced before
 him. There is nothing in the testimony of PW2 to
 suggest that accused was found inside the house of
 Madan Lal when he visited the house of his uncle,
 Madan Lal. Further, he did not even depose that any
 recovery was made from accused in his presence.
 Seizure memo of playstation-3(Ex PW1/C) does not
 bear his signature as a witness. Seizure memo of lock
 Ex. PW1/B also does not bear his signature and this
 suggests that he did not witness the alleged recovery.
 Hence, it is seen that in view of denial of PW2
 regarding having made a call to police on 100
 number, his failure to identify the case property,
 failure to reveal the name of public person, (whom he
 is stated to have found at the spot) and failure to
 identify the case property and further documents Ex.
 PW1/B and Ex. PW1/C not having been witnessed by
 him, throw a reasonable doubt on his very presence at
 the spot. Moreover, even if his testimony is taken and

FIR No. 232/15 19 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 read in totality, for the sake of arguments, it does not
 at all go to prove that accused committed theft inside
 the house of Madan Lal. 14. As far as PW4/ Madan Lal is concerned, he is a mere
 hearsay witness. He was out of station on the date in
 question and he did not witness the alleged trespass
 and theft. He did not visit the spot on being informed
 about the theft and was out of station at that time. 15. PW-5/IO SI Radhey Shyam deposed that at the place
 of incident, lock and play station 3 were handed over
 to him by PW-1. Thus, it is clear that nothing was
 recovered from accused in the presence of police and
 testimony of PW-1 on the point of alleged recovery is
 doubtful as he is not a reliable witness, in view of the
 discussion above-said. A suggestion was put to PW-5
 that there was a dispute between PW-4 and accused
 in respect of salary and therefore, accused was falsely
 implicated in this case. The possibility of false
 implication cannot be ruled out in view of the glaring
 loopholes in the investigation and inconsistent
 testimonies of prosecution witnesses. 16. In view of discussion aforesaid, it is seen that
 prosecution has failed to establish its case against the
 accused beyond reasonable doubt. Hence, accused
 Sunil Kumar is acquitted for offence under Section

FIR No. 232/15 20 of 21
PS Anand Vihar
State Vs. Sunil Kumar
 457/380/411 IPC . Bail bond in compliance of section
 437-A Code of Criminal Procedure has already been
 furnished. Copy of Judgment be uploaded on official website.