Counsel for the Petitioner: GOUTHAMI SURAPAREDDY

Counsel for the Respondents: KALEPU YASHWANTH Counsel for the
Respondents:GP FOR PANCHAYAT RAJ RURAL DEV Counsel for the
Respondents:GP FOR HOME Counsel for the Respondents:GP FOR
MUNCIPAL ADMN URBAN DEV 2 WRIT PETITION NO: 21661 OF 2025

Between: ...Petitioner

 AND 1. The State of Andhra Pradesh, rep., by its Principai Secretary, Panchayat
Raj and Rurai Development, Secretariat Buildings, Velagapudi, Amaravathi,
Guntur District. 2. The State Election Commission, Room No.192, Ground Fioor, Building
No.5, A.P. Secretariat, Velagapudi, Amaravati rep., by its Commissioner. 3. The District CollectorcumEiection Officer, Y.S.R Kadapa District, Kadapa. 4. The Returning OfficercumSpecial Deputy Coilector, Land Acquisition
Officer, National High Ways, Kadapa. 5. The Superintendent of Police, Kadapa, Y.S.R Kadapa District. 6. The Deputy Inspector of General, , Kurnool Range, Andhra Pradesh 7. Mareddy Latha Reddy, D/o. Not known to the Petitioner, R/o. D.N0.4-34A,
Kasanuru Viiiage, Simhadripuram Mandal, YSR Kadapa District. 8. Moyila Siva Kalyan Reddy, , S/o. Not known to the Petitioner, R/o.
D.No.1/22, Chinna Kudaala Village, Lingaala Mandal, YSR Kadapa District. 9. Ankireddy Suresh Kumar Reddy, , S/o. A. Chinna Pullareddy, Aged about
46 years, R/o. D.No.3-42, Sydapuram Village, Thondur Mandal, YSR
Kadapa District. 10. Thummaluru Anil Kumar Reddy, S/o. Not known to the Petitioner, R/o.
D.No.2/20, Pernapadu Village, Vemula Mandal, YSR Kadapa District. 11. Nagella Samba Siva Reddy, S/o. N. Ankireddy, Aged about 65 years,
R/o. D.No.3-5, Pernapadu Village, Vemula Mandal, YSR Kadapa District. 12. B Raveendra Reddy, S/o. Venkata Ramireddy, Aged about 55 years,
R/o. D.N0.2-27-B, Mallela Village, Thondur Mandal, YSR Kadapa District. 13. Marujolu Gajendranath Reddy, S/o. Not known to the Petitioner R/o.
D.No.2-34, Rayalapuram, R. Thummalapalle Village, Pulivendula Mandal,
YSR Kadapa District. 14. Mareddy Jai Bharath Reddy, , S/o. Not known to the Petitioner, R/o.
D.N0.4-34A, Kasanuru Village, Simhadripuram Mandal, YSR Kadapa District. 15. M Vengala Reddy, S/o. M. Pedda Bali Reddy, Aged about 49 years, R/o.
D.No.4-8-197-2-2, Narayana College Road, Pulivendula, YSR Kadapa
District. 16. Yadati Suneel Reddy, , S/o. Not known to the Petitioner, R/o. D.No.3/111,
Mottu Nuthana Palli, E. Kothapalli, Pulivendula Mandal, YSR Kadapa District. ...Respondents

Counsel for the Petitioner: V R REDDY KOVVURI

Counsel for the Respondents: GP FOR PANCHAYAT RAJ RURAL DEV
Counsel for the Respondents:GP FOR HOME Counsel for the
Respondents:GP FOR LAND ACQUISITION Counsel for the
Respondents:SHAIK MOHAMMED ISMAIL Counsel for the
Respondents:GP MUNCIPAL ADMN AND URBAN DEV AP

The Court made the following COMMON ORDER: 4. Since the facts relate to the alleged irregularities committed by the
sympathizers and supporters of the Ruling Party candidates and there is
inaction on the part of the Official Respondents despite the fact that the Writ
Petitioners have made several Representations, the present Writ Petitions are
filed. Therefore, with the consent of the parties, these Writ Petitions were
heard together at the admission stage and the present Common Order is
passed. 5. Before commencement of the arguments on behalf of the Writ
Petitioners, Sri B. Adinarayana Rao, learned Senior Counsel appearing for
Respondent No.7 in W.P.No.21648 of 2025 and Respondent No.14 in 5 W.P.No.21661 of 2025 has raised a preliminary objection as regards the
maintainability of these Writ Petitions. Submissions of the Writ Petitioners 6. Sri P. Veera Reddy, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Writ
Petitioner in W.P.No.21661 of 2025 had led the arguments and has taken this
Court through the averments in the Affidavit filed in support of the Writ
Petition. He had submitted that the Writ Petitioner has approached this Court
for seeking stay of the conduct of by-election by filing W.P.No.21208 of 2025
inasmuch as the Official Respondents have shifted polling stations without
following the due process of law. Learned Senior Counsel has submitted that
vide Order dated 11.08.2025, the said Writ Petition was dismissed on the
ground that the Court could not interfere inasmuch as the date of polling is
scheduled on the next date i.e., 12.08.2025. 7. Learned Senior Counsel would submit that in the present Writ
Petition, the Writ Petitioner has projected highhanded behaviour of the
sympathizers and supporters of the political opponents, thereby resorting to
rigging of votes by impersonation. He had taken this Court through the
various photographs to indicate that some of the persons standing in the
queue of the polling stations do not even belong to the said constituency and
they have stood in the queue for the purpose of rigging the votes by way of
impersonation. He would also submit that threats were hurled to the agents
of the Writ Petitioners who were contesting in the respective ZPTC by-
elections, thereby preventing their agents in attending to their duties during
the course of polling as well as during the course of counting. He would
submit that the sympathizers of the political opponents have threatened the
supporters of the Writ Petitioners who were helping during the time of polling
and counting as election agents in order to gain advantage of rigging and to
prevent the agents from identifying the non-locals for the purpose of
preventing rigging. He would also submit that various Representations given
by the Writ Petitioners to the Election Officer/District Collector dated 6 08.08.2025 (before the date of polling) and on 11.08.2025 (one day before the
date of polling) and also on 12.08.2025 (which is the date of polling) have
been completely ignored by the Official Respondents. He would submit that
all the incriminating material has been supplied to the Official Respondents
seeking proper action but there has not been any response. 8. In response to the preliminary objection on maintainability of these
Writ Petitions raised by Sri B. Adinarayana Rao, learned Senior Counsel
representing the Unofficial Respondents, as indicated above, Sri P. Veera
Reddy, learned Senior Counsel has placed reliance on the Union Territory of
Ladakh and Ors Vs. Jammu and Kashmir National Conference and
Another : 2023 SCC OnLine 1140. In the said case, the Respondent therein
namely the Jammu and Kashmir National Conference had applied to the State
Election Commissioner seeking allotment of „plough‟ as a symbol for the
purpose of contesting the General Elections of Ladakh Autonomous Hill
Development Council. It is the case of the Respondent therein that the said
symbol has already been allotted to the same party for participating in the
General Elections in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. As there was inaction
on the part of the Election Commissioner, the Respondent therein has filed the
Writ Petition. The Learned Single Judge of the High Court of Jammu and
Kashmir, vide Interim Order dated 09.08.2023 had directed the Writ Petitioner
to approach the Election Commission for notifying the reserved symbol
„plough‟ already allotted to it with a further direction to the Election
Commission to notify the reserved symbol already allotted to the Writ
Petitioner in terms of Paras 10 and 10(A) of Election Symbols (Reservation
and Allotment) Order, 1968 and to further allow the candidates set-up by the
Writ Petitioner to contest on the reserved election symbol „plough‟. 9. Having been aggrieved by the directions given by the Learned Single
Judge, the Union Territory of Ladakh has filed the Writ Appeal and the same
was dismissed on 14.08.2023. Having been aggrieved by the dismissal, the
Union Territory of Ladakh and the Election Commission of India have 7 approached the Hon‟ble Supreme Court. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court was
pleased dismiss the Appeal confirming the Interim Order of the learned Single
Judge. 10. Learned Senior Counsel has placed reliance on Para
Nos.16,37,39,43 & 44 of the said Judgment of the Hon‟ble Apex Court to
justify the maintainability of the present Writ Petition. Para Nos.16,37,39,43 &
44 are usefully extracted hereunder: (emphasis supplied)
 And again in paras 40 and 41 it is observed thus : But their existence is implicit in the nature of
 democratic form of Government which our country
 has adopted. The use of a symbol, be it a donkey or
 an elephant, does give rise to a unifying effect
 amongst the people with a common political and
 economic programme and ultimately helps in the
 establishment of a Westminster type of democracy
 which we have adopted with a Cabinet responsible to
 the elected representatives of the people who
 constitute the Lower House. The political parties have
 to be there if the present system of Government
 should succeed and the chasm dividing the political
 parties should be so profound that a change of
 administration would in fact be a revolution disguised
 under a constitutional procedure. It is no doubt a
 paradox that while the country as a whole yields to no
 other in its corporate sense of unity and continuity,
 the working parts of its political system are so
 organised on party basis -- in other words, "on
 systematised differences and unresolved conflicts".
 That is the essence of our system and it facilitates the
 setting up of a Government by the majority. Although
 till recently the Constitution had not expressly
 referred to the existence of political parties, by the
 amendments made to it by the Constitution (Fifty- second Amendment) Act, 1985 there is now a clear
 recognition of the political parties by the Constitution.
 The Tenth Schedule to the Constitution which is
 added by the above Amending Act acknowledges the
 existence of political parties and sets out the
 circumstances when a member of Parliament or of
 the State Legislature would be deemed to have
 defected from his political party and would thereby be
 disqualified for being a member of the House
 concerned. Hence it is difficult to say that the
 reference to recognition, registration, etc. of political
 parties by the Symbols Order is unauthorised and
 against the political system adopted by our country." (emphasis supplied)" 11. Learned Senior Counsel has also placed reliance on the Judgment
rendered by three Judge Bench of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in People's
Union for Civil Liberties and Another Vs. Union of India and Another : 12. The Learned Senior Counsel has taken this Court through Sections
224 and 225 of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (for short the
„APPRA, 1994‟) and Rules, 18, 19, 21, 24 & 37 Of the Andhra Pradesh
Panchayat Raj Act (Conduct of Election) Rules, 2006 (for short the „Rules,
2006). He has also drawn the attention of this Court to Rule 43 of the Rules,
2006. Submissions of Unofficial Respondents 13. Sri B. Adinarayana Rao, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
Unofficial Respondents in both the Writ Petitions has taken this Court through Section 58A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (for short the RPA,
1951). While referring to the said provision, he would submit that at this stage,
the Election Commission cannot entertain the complaints made by the
contesting candidates or any private parties inasmuch as the Election
Commission would act only upon the „Report‟ submitted by the Returning 12 Officer but not otherwise. He would submit that the only remedy left open for
a candidate who is aggrieved of the alleged irregularities said to have
occurred during the polling process is to only approach the appropriate
Tribunal by filing the Election Petition. 14. Learned Senior Counsel for the Unofficial Respondents has also
taken this Court through the contents of the Article 243-O and Clause (a) & (b)
of Article 243-O of the Constitution of India. Learned Senior Counsel has
placed reliance on the Judgment rendered by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Boddula Krishnaiah and Another Vs. State Election Commissioner, A.P
and Others : (1996) 3 SCC 416. He has placed reliance on Para Nos.7 to 9
of the said Judgment. He would contend that the „disputed questions of facts‟
cannot be decided in a Writ Petition. He would submit that the photographs
and the video clippings furnished by the Writ Petitioners are only the „disputed
questions of facts‟, which can only be decided upon complete trial and by
Forensic Report in an appropriate Proceeding and such disputed questions of
facts cannot be entertained in a Writ. Para Nos.7 to 9 of the said Judgment
are usefully extracted hereunder: Firstly, the High Court had no material before it to warrant
 the passing of those orders. The allegations in the writ
 petition are of a vague and general nature, on the basis of
 which no relief could be granted. Secondly, though the High
 Court did not lack the jurisdiction to entertain the writ
 petition and to issue appropriate directions therein, no High
 Court in the exercise of its power under Article 226 of the
 Constitution should pass any orders, interim or otherwise,
 which has the tendency or effect of postponing an election,
 which is reasonably imminent and in relation to which its
 writ jurisdiction is invoked. The High Courts must observe a
 self-imposed limitation on their power to act under Article
 226 , by refusing to pass orders or given directions which
 will inevitably result in an indefinite postponement of
 elections to legislative bodies, which are the very essence
 of the democratic foundation and functioning of our
 Constitution. That limitation ought to be observed
 irrespective of the fact whether the preparation and
 publication of electoral rolls are a part of the process of
 „election‟ within the meaning of Article 329(b) of the
 Constitution." 15. Learned Senior Counsel for the Unofficial Respondents has also
placed reliance on the Judgment of the Hon‟ble Division Bench of High Court
of Calcutta in West Bengal State Election Commission Vs. Babli Begum
and Others : 2023 SCC Online Cal 4829. The facts of this case are identical
to the facts involved in the present Writ Petitions, which are reflected in Para
No.3 of the said Judgment. Learned Senior Counsel has placed reliance on
Para 21 of the said Judgment, which is usefully extracted hereunder: Submissions by Official Respondents 16. Sri Dammalapati Srinivas, learned Advocate General has submitted
that the Judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court cited by Sri P. Veera Reddy,
Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Writ Petitioner in W.P.No.21661 of
2025 i.e., Union Territory of Ladakh and Others Vs. J & K National Conference
and Another (2023 SCC OnLine SC 1140) has no relevance inasmuch as the
dispute therein is not relating to alleged irregularities or alleged illegalities
during the election process but the dispute is related to grant of election
symbol. He would also submit that the said dispute did not arise after the
commencement of election process inasmuch as the Writ Petitioner therein
namely Jammu and Kashmir National Conference had approached the
Hon‟ble Supreme Court with regard to the inaction on the part of the State
Election Commission in not considering the request of the Writ Petitioner in 15 granting symbol „plough‟ as election symbol which already stood granted to
the same party. He would further submit that the Writ Petitioner therein had
approached the Court seeking Election Symbol even before the election
notification. He has also placed reliance on the Judgment of the Hon‟ble
Division Bench of this Court in K. Ratna Prabha Vs. Election Commission
of India : 2021 SCC OnLine AP 1012. He placed reliance on Para Nos.5 &
25 of the said Judgment, which are usefully extracted hereunder: 17. Sri S. Vivek Chandra Sekhar, learned Standing Counsel appearing
online on behalf of State Election Commission has not only drawn the
attention of this Court to the text of Article 243-O of the Constitution of India
but also the text of Clauses (a) & (b) of Article 243-O of the Constitution of
India. He would also submit that provision corresponding to Section 58A of
the RPA, 1951 is Section 231 of the APPRA, 1994. He has also drawn the
attention of this Court to Clause (a) & (b) of Sub- section 1 of Section 231 of
APPRA, 1994 and also drawn the attention of Clause (a) & (b) of Sub- section
2 of Section 231 of APPRA, 1994. He would submit that insofar as the
„Report‟ of the Returning Officer is concerned, in the present election, the
Returning Officer has submitted a „Report‟ for conducting re-election in booth
Nos.3 & 14 of Pulivendula ZPTC inasmuch as some malpractices were
involved, and therefore, the State Election Commission has ordered for re-
election insofar as booth Nos.3 & 14 are concerned. He would submit that the
prayer sought in the present Writ Petitions cannot be entertained on the
disputed questions of facts. He would submit that the Right to Vote is only a
statutory right and it is not a fundamental right, and therefore, the present Writ
Petitions cannot be entertained. 18. Learned Counsel appearing for the State Election Commission has
also drawn the attention of this Court to Section 233 of the APPRA, 1994 and
Rule 2 of Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Election Tribunals In Respect Of
Gram Panchayats, Mandal Parja Parishadas and Zilla Praja Parishads) Rules,
1995 (for short the „Rules, 1995). Analysis 19. For the purpose of appreciation of above facts, the provisions of the
Constitution, the relevant Statutes and the Rules, Regulations are extracted
hereunder: i) Article 243-O: 243O. Bar to interference by courts in electoral matters
 Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution : or (b)if satisfied that in view of the large number of polling stations or places
 involved in booth capturing the result of the election is likely to be affected, or
 that booth capturing had affected counting of votes in such a manner as to
 affect that result of the election, countermand the election in that
 constituency. Explanation.--In this section, "booth capturing" shall have the
 same meaning as in section 135A. iii) Sections 231 & 233 of Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act,
 1994: or (b) booth capturing takes place in any place for counting of votes in such
 manner that the result of the counting at that place cannot be
 ascertained, the returning officer shall forthwith report the matter to
 the *[Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies]. (2) The *[Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies] shall on
 the receipt of a report from the returning officer under sub-section (1) and
 after taking all material circumstances into account, either, (a) declare that the poll at that polling station be void, appoint a day, and
 fix the hours, for taking fresh poll at that polling station and notify the
 date so appointed and hours so fixed in such manner as he may
 deem fit, or (b) if satisfied that in view of the large number of polling stations involved
 in booth capturing the result of the election is likely to be affected or
 that booth capturing had affected counting of votes in such manner as
 to effect the result of the election, countermand the election in that
 constituency. Explanation: In this section "booth capturing" shall have the same meaning
 as in section 224 . 233. Election petitions - No election held under this Act shall be called in
 question except by an election petition presented to such authority and in
 accordance with such rules as may be made in this behalf. iv) Rule 2 of Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Election Tribunals
 In Respect Of Gram Panchayats, Mandal Parja Parishadas
 and Zilla Praja Parishads) Rules, 1995

 "2. (1) Save as otherwise provided no election held under the Act, whether of
 a member, Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch of Gram Panchayat, President and
 Vice-President of Mandal Praja Parishad and Member of Mandal Praja
 Parishad Territorial Constituencies and Chairman and Vice-Chairman of Zilla
 Praja Parishad and Member of Zilla Praja Parishad and Member of Zilla
 Parishad Territorial Constituency thereof, shall be called in question except by
 an election petition presented in accordance with these Rules to the Election
 Tribunal as defined in sub-rule(2) by any candidate or elector against the
 candidate who has been declared to have been duly elected (hereinafter
 called the returned candidate) or if there are two or more returned candidates
 against all or any such candidates. (2) The Election Tribunal shall be, - (i) except in cases following under clause (ii), a) the District Munsiff, if there is more than one District Munsiff, the Principal
 District Munsiff, having Territorial Jurisdiction over the place in which the 19 office of Gram Panchayat is located, in respect of the election of
 members, Sarpanchas and Upa-Sarpanchas of Gram Panchayat. b) the Subordinate Judge or if there is more than one Subordinate Judge at
 the Head Quarters, having Territorial Jurisdiction over the place in which
 the office of Mandal Praja Parishad or Zilla Praja Parishad as the case
 may be, is located, in respect of the election disputes and matters
 pertaining to the election of President, Vice-President and members of
 Mandal Praja Parishad Territorial Constituencies and Chairman, Vice-
 Chairman and Members of Zilla Praja Parishad Territorial Constituencies. Explanation:- For purposes of these Rules, the expressions "Subordinate
 Judge" and "District Munsiff shall in relation to the Scheduled Areas mean the
 Agency Divisional Officer. (ii) Where the Government so directs, whether in respect of Gram Panchayats
 generally or in respect of any class of Gram Panchayats, Mandal Praja
 Parishads and Zilla Praja Parishads such officer or officers of the Government
 as may be designated by the Government in this behalf by name or by virtue
 of Office; Provided that an election petition may, on application, be transferred: Where an election petition is so transferred, the authority to which it is
 transferred shall be deemed to be the Election Tribunal. (3) An election Tribunal exercising jurisdiction under these Rules shall be
 deemed to exercise such jurisdiction as a person designate and not in his
 capacity as a Judge or other Officer of the Government, as the case may be". Disputed Questions of Facts: This apart, the Writ Court would not venture to undertake an exercise that is
reserved purely for the enquiry by the Election Tribunal in terms of Section
233 of APPRA, 1994 read with Rule 2 of Rules, 1995. Statutory Bar 21. Statue that is akin to Section 58A of the RPA, 1951 is incorporated
under Section 231 of APPRA, 1994. Also, Section 233 of the APPRA, 1994
mandates, through a non-obstante clause, that no election held under the
APPRA Act, 1994 Act shall be called in question except by an Election
Petition presented to such authority and in accordance with such Rules as
may be made in this behalf. As indicated earlier that under Rule 2 of the
Rules, 1995, sub-clause (b) requires the aggrieved party to approach the
Subordinate Judge for filing an Election Petition in respect of elections relating
to Z.P.P. Therefore, the provisions referred to above would clearly indicate
that the Writ Courts would be loath in entertaining the disputes that arise
during the election process inasmuch as the said area is reserved for the
Election Tribunal. 22. Provisions of the Constitution of India and the relevant provisions of
the Statute that would fall for consideration in the present case have already
been referred hereinabove. Article 243 and 243-A to 243-O would deal with
various aspects of Rural India namely the Gram Sabhas and local
panchayats. Clause (b) of Article 243-O stipulates that "no election to any
Panchayat shall be called in question except by an „election petition‟
presented to such authority and in such manner as is provided for by or under
any law made by the Legislature of a State". The elections to Panchayats of
Mandal Praja Parishads and Zilla Praja Parishads in the State of Andhra
Pradesh are governed by the A.P. Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 . 23. In this view of the matter, the Judgments relied on by the Sri P.
Veera Reddy, learned Senior Counsel in the „plough‟ symbol case ( 2023 SCC
OnLine SC 1140) and PUCL Case [(2013) 10 SCC 1], referred supra, would
have no relevance to the facts involved in the present Writ Petitions. 24. Similarly, the reliance placed by Sri S. Sri Ram, learned Senior
Counsel on Paras 14 to 17, 19 to 22 and 36 to 39 in the case of Mohinder
Singh Gill and Another Vs. The Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi
and Others : (1978) 1 SCC 405 during his rejoinder would also not support
the case of the Writ Petitioners herein. He has further submitted that there is
inaction on the part of State Election Commission in taking appropriate action
on the alleged irregularities projected by the Writ Petitioners. He would further
submit that the conduct of the State Election Commission tantamounts to
abdication of its statutory functions. 25. On the contrary, the reliance placed by Sri B. Adinarayana Rao,
learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Unofficial Respondents, which are referred to above would squarely apply to the facts of the present cases,
inasmuch as the Writ Court would not entertain Writ Petitions to consider the
disputed questions of facts. This apart, this Court is also in agreement with
the submissions made by the learned Senior Counsel with regard to the the
constitutional and statutory mandate which would clearly indicate that the
nature of disputes raised by the Writ Petitioners herein can only be
adjudicated by the Election Tribunal, when the aggrieved party files an
Election Petition. 26. This Court is in agreement with the submissions of Sri S. Vivek
Chandrasekhar representing the State Election Commission (SEC) that it had
ordered for a re-poll in respect of booth nos.3 and 14 in Pulivendula ZPTC
basing on the „Report‟ submitted by the Election Officer and insofar as the
disputes raised by the Writ Petitioners are concerned, they are required to
approach the designated Election Tribunal but not a Writ Court inasmuch as
there is a Constitutional and Statutory bar for entertaining a Writ Petition. 27. In the above premise, this Court is of the opinion that there is no
merit in these Writ Petitions. Accordingly, these Writ Petitions are dismissed.
Writ Petitioners are, however, granted liberty to approach the Election Tribunal
in respect of the issues involved in the present Writ Petitions, if so advised. No
Order as to Costs. 28. Interlocutory Applications, if any, stand closed in terms of this order. ______________________________________
 GANNAMANENIRAMAKRISHNA PRASAD, J

Dt: 14.08.2025
Note: LR Copy to be marked. JKS 23 233 HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE GANNAMANENI RAMAKRISHNA PRASAD

 WRIT PETITION NOs: 21648 & 21661 of 2025

 14.08.2025

Note: LR Copy to be marked. JKS