1. This is an appeal by the Appellant, S.N. Ojha, former Assistant
 Commissioner (Export), posted at the Inland Container Depot („ICD‟),
 Tughlakabad under Section 130 of the Customs Act, 1962 („Act‟)
 against an order dated 21st November 2005 passed by the Customs,
 Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal („CESTAT‟) in Customs
 Appeal No. C/422/03-B. 2. By the said impugned order, the CESTAT dismissed the Appellant‟s
 appeal and affirmed the order dated 19th August 2003 passed by the
 Commissioner of Customs imposing a penalty of Rs. 3 lakhs on the CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 1 of 19 Appellant under Section 114 (iii) of the Act. 3. The background to the present appeal is that the Appellant joined the
 Customs Department as Customs Appraiser on 25 th April 1986. He was
 promoted to the grade of Assistant Commissioner on 29 th February 1996
 and thereafter to the grade of Deputy Commissioner on 12 th November
 2002. On 24th July 1998 he was posted as Assistant Commissioner
 (Export) at the Internal Container Depot (ICD), Tughlakabad and also
 Assistant Commissioner (Adjudication). He was in-charge of processing
 of the shipping bills filed for export of goods through the ICD. He also
 performed other functions allied and incidental thereto. 4. It is stated that the procedure for processing the shipping bills on the
 Customs EDI computer system was prescribed in Public Notice No. 8/97
 dated 13th August 1997. It is further stated that in terms of the said
 public notice the data from the shipping bills as provided by the
 exporter, would be entered into the EDI system. The processing of the
 said shipping bills at the level of Assistant Commissioner was limited to
 the verification of online particulars already entered into the EDI
 system. It is sought to be suggested that at the stage of processing,
 neither are the original documents produced before the Assistant
 Commissioner nor are the goods brought within the customs area. 5. On 12th December 1998 the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence
 („DRI‟) received information that the old and used clothes were being
 exported from ICD, Tughlakabad by certain exporters in order to
 fraudulently claim drawback. The said exporters included M/s. R.S. &
 Co., M/s. Stitch & Style, M/s. Himgiri Overseas, M/s. Deepshikha
 Overseas and M/s. Saharanpur Handicrafts, New Delhi. Acting on the CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 2 of 19 said information the DRI detained 12 containers at Mumbai port and
 another 10 containers at the Nhava Sheva port prior to their being loaded
 on to vessels. Four containers which had already sailed from Mumbai
 were called back through the steamer agent. All these containers had
 been cleared for export through the port of ICD, Tughlakabad, New
 Delhi. 6. When the containers were examined by the Officers of DRI between
 12th December 1998 and 11th March 1999 the goods were found to be
 old and used. Mr. Joseph Kuok, Superintendent of Customs who had
 given the "Let Export Orders", Mr. Lovkesh Sharma, and Mr. Zaki
 Anwar, Inspectors who had issued the examination report for the
 consignments, the Clearing Agent and the Clearing Clerk who had
 attended to the exports were summoned by the DRI Officers under
 Section 108 of the Act. On examination of 26 containers it was found
 that there was no marking of serial numbers on the cartons in some of
 the containers. Further although some cartons were numbered, those did
 not tally with the serial numbers given in the shipping bills, invoices and
 packing lists. Also the goods were not found as per the declarations
 given in the shipping bills and invoices by the exporter. Some of the
 garments were spoiled, discoloured and torn. The value of the goods in
 all 26 containers was assessed at Rs. 69,26,325 as against the declared
 FOB value of Rs. 31,39,72,656.77 on which fraudulent drawback
 claimed was Rs. 5,43,91,420. 7. The investigation revealed that 10 containers‟ load of readymade
 garments which had earlier been exported by M/s. Himgiri Overseas and
 M/s. Deepshikha Overseas and delivered at Dubai were also of similar
 nature. The declared FOB value of the goods in the said 10 containers CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 3 of 19 was Rs. 11,45,84,196.50 on which fraudulent drawback availed was Rs.
 1,97,84,550 . From the total drawback due on 26 containers and the 10
 containers already delivered, the sum of Rs. 3,87,12,610 was found to be
 disbursed. The Commissioner of Customs, ICD, Tughlakabad was asked
 not to disburse the balance amount of Rs. 3,54,63,360. From the
 disbursal of the aforementioned drawback amount to the different firms,
 it was noticed that the amount of drawback disbursed to one unit was
 transferred to other, which showed a clear nexus between the units. 8. 26 panchnamas were prepared from the inspection of the containers in
 the presence of some of the customs officials. The statements of several
 of them were recorded. Mr. Lovkesh Sharma tendered 6 statements on 4
 different dates during recording of proceedings in the panchnama, i.e.,
 on 12th January 1999, 18th January 1999, 10th March 1999 and 11th
 March 1999. He further tendered statements on 9th, 12th December 1999
 and 15th March 1999. Mr. Joseph Kuok gave 4 statements on 3 different
 dates, i.e., 12th January 1999, 18th January 1999 and 13th February 1999
 during recording of proceedings in the panchnama. He made further
 statements on 16th, 17th February 1999, 26th March 1999 and 26th August
 1999. 9. On the basis of the above statements, a show cause notice („SCN‟)
 was issued to the several parties including the Appellant on 3rd
 December 1999 proposing an imposition of penalty under Section 114
 of the Act. The Appellant submitted a reply on 13th June 2000 and
 further written submissions on 13th September 2000, 11th October 2000
 and 13th March 2002. As already noticed, the Commissioner of Customs
 by Order-in-Original dated 19th August 2003 levied a penalty of Rs. 3
 lakhs on the Appellant under Section 114 (i) and 114 (iii) of the Act. This was affirmed by the CESTAT by its impugned order dated 21 st
 November 2005. 10. The findings qua the Appellant in the order-in-original dated 19th
 August 2003 passed by the Commissioner of Customs were as under: R.S. & Co., M/s. Himgiri Overseas, M/s. Deepshikha Overseas,
 M/s. Stitch & Style and M/s. Saharanpur Handicrafts, New Delhi
 indicated that the Appellant knew Rajesh Kumar. The evidence
 showed that Rajesh Kumar was introduced to the Appellant by his
 predecessor Mr. J.P. Singh, Assistant Commissioner and therefore,
 Rajesh Kumar was known to the Appellant. (c) The Appellant's plea of heavy pressure of work or pre-
 occupation was not believable. In light of the instructions issued by
 the Department that goods for which the drawback claim made was
 over Rs. 1 lakh would require scrutiny/approval of the Assistant
 Commissioner before clearance, the Appellant could not divest
 himself of his responsibility by pleading ignorance. (d) 85 of the 100 shipping bills were assigned for examination to
 Mr. Lovkesh Sharma and this was confirmed by Mr. Joseph Kuok,
 Superintendent. (e) Although the evidence tendered by a co-noticee required
 corroboration, the fact was that there was gross misdeclaration of
 value, description and quantity in respect of as many as 100
 consignments. This circumstance proved the involvement of the
 Appellant and the officers working under him. It amounted to
 'smuggling' within the meaning of Section 2 (39) of the Act. (f) The Appellant was guilty of complicity with Rajesh Kumar in
 the export fraud and was liable to penalty under Section 114 (iii) of
 the Act. 11. The CESTAT in the impugned order found that both Lovkesh Sharma
and Joseph Kuok had been acting under the instructions of the Appellant
and had permitted the consignments to be exported without examination.
Consequently, the findings of the Commissioner of Customs in the order-
in-original were upheld. 12. Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned Senior counsel appearing for the
Appellant, made the following submissions: Therefore, 100 bills out of 3000, particularly of five different
 exporters, could not have raised any suspicion as there was no alert
 qua the said five exporters. None of the 100 bills was ever returned
 to the Appellant or was showed to the Appellant after processing. (v) Lovkesh Sharma and Zaki Anwar were habitual offenders and
 had been penalised or convicted in several other cases. Zaki
 Anwar‟s statement that he had shown samples to the Appellant in
 the room of Superintendent was patently wrong and
 uncorroborated. Neither Joseph Kuok nor R.S. Tandon, who were
 the Superintendents, had ever stated in their respective statements
 that Anwar had showed the samples to the Appellant in their room.
 There were numerous inconsistencies in the statements of Joseph
 Kuok, Lovkesh Sharma and Zaki Anwar which made their
 statements unreliable and inadmissible in law. Reliance was placed
 on the decisions in Mohtesham Mohd. Ismail v. Special Director,
 Enforcement Directorate 2007 (8) SCC 254, Vinod Solanki v.
 Union of India 2009 ( 233) ELT 157 (SC), Union of India v. Bal
 Mukund 2009 ( 12) SCC 151, Noor Aga v. State of Punjab (2008) CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 7 of 19 16 SCC 417. (vi) Joseph Kuok was fully exonerated in the Department's
 proceedings despite being named by the CBI in the chargesheet. (vii) The public notice issued by the Department required the
 Assistant Commissioner to scrutinise export declarations/shipping
 bills by perusing the particulars online. He was not required to
 inspect the bills even where the drawback claimed was over Rs. 1
 lakh. The processing of the shipping bills was complete even prior
 to the arrival of the goods in the shed. Once a shipping bill was
 processed, the Assistant Commissioner had no access or control
 over the movement of the shipping bill or the cargo and would
 come to know of it if and only if the bills were returned to the
 Assistant Commissioner‟s screen with objection/query. The Court
 was shown the chart and the flow sheet showing the movement of
 the goods from one stage to the other to buttress the above
 submission. (viii) The fact that there were several calls from Rajesh Kumar
 only showed that the Appellant as a nodal officer for grievance
 redressal, had to attend to complaints and queries of the exporters
 on a regular basis. The inference that he was acting in collusion
 with Mr. Rajesh Kumar was perverse. Further, in the absence of
 the transcript of the alleged conversations, the data concerning the
 calls could not lead to any adverse inference. Despite their being
 120 calls from J.P. Singh to Rajesh Kumar and 82 calls from
 Rajesh Kumar to J.P. Singh, they were both exonerated. (ix) The marking of shipping bills by the Appellant to Joseph on CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 8 of 19 the relevant date was done as Mr. Tandon was not available as he
 was busy in other work. The marking was in bona fide discharge of
 his duty. The mere fact that the appeal of Satish Kumar and Anwar
 were also dismissed would not automatically mean that the
 Appellant‟s case should also fail since both Anwar and Gupta were
 accused in other cases and had been suspended even at the initial
 stage of the enquiry. On the other hand, the Commissioner of
 Customs having exonerated Joseph Kuok and CESTAT having
 exonerated J.P. Singh and R.K. Srivastava, the Appellant should
 also be exonerated. 13. In reply to the above submissions, Mr. Rahul Kaushik, learned Senior
standing counsel for the Respondent, drew the attention of the Court to
the detailed order passed by the Delhi High Court in Sudhir Sharma v.
Commissioner of Customs 2015 (319) ELT 450 (Del) where, in similar
circumstances, the Court had upheld the order of the CESTAT which had
affirmed the penalty levied on the custom officers involved in a large
scale case of fraud in respect of drawback claims. He referred to the order
passed by the Supreme Court dated 27th February 2015 in Special Leave
Petition (Civil) No. 22381 of 2015 [Ajay Yadav v. Commissioner of
Customs (Import and General)] where the SLP of Mr. Ajay Yadav
against the above order of this Court was dismissed as withdrawn. 14. Mr. Kaushik pointed out that the Court ought not to interfere with the
concurrent findings of the Commissioner and the CESTAT unless they
were shown to be perverse. Reliance was placed on the decisions in Naresh J. Sukhawani v. Union of India 1996 (83) ELT 258 (SC); Collector of Customs, Madras v. D. Bhoormul (1974) 2 SCC 544; K.I.
Pavunny v. Assistant Collector (HQ), C. Ex. Collectorate, Cochin 1997 CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 9 of 19 (90) ELT 241 (SC); Balkrishna Chhaganlal Soni v. State of West
Bengal 1983 ELT 1527 (SC); Vishnu Kumar v. Commissioner of
Customs, New Delhi 2010 (26) ELT 356 (Del); Surjeet Singh Chhabra
v. Union of India (1997) 1 SCC 508 and Telstar Travels Private Limited
v. Enforcement Directorate (2013) 9 SCC 549. 15. Mr. Kaushik also drew the attention of the Court to the fact that as far
as the co-noticees were concerned, the appeals filed by Mr. Satish Gupta
and Mr. Anwar against the order of the CESTAT had failed. The further
appeals filed by them in Supreme Court were also dismissed. 16. Before proceeding to discuss the above submissions, the Court
proposes to discuss the legal position as regards the scope of the judicial
review. The Court also notes that by the order dated 3rd September 2007
the question of law framed was whether the CESTAT was justified in
upholding the penalty levied on the Appellant? 17. Since one part of the evidence relied upon by the Department in the
present case is comprised of the statements of the co-noticees, the legal
position as regards the evidential value of such statements requires to be
examined. In the context of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 („FERA‟), the Supreme Court in K.T.M.S. Mohd. v. Union of India 1992
(3) SCC 178 emphasized in the context of a retracted statement by the
noticee, it had to be shown that the initial statement was voluntary. Any
statement obtained under inducement, threat, coercion or other improper
means had to be rejected. At the same time, merely because a statement is
retracted, it would not automatically lead to the inference that it was
obtained involuntarily. The burden would shift to the maker of the
statement to establish that improper means had been adopted for CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 10 of 19 obtaining such statement. If the maker failed to establish the allegation of
inducement, threat etc. the adjudicating authority would not proceed to
decide the show cause notice on the sole basis of such statement but look
for other corroborative evidence. 18. Subsequently, in Vinod Solanki v. Union of India (supra) the
Supreme Court reiterated the above legal position and observed: 19. The Court also referred to the decision in Mohtesham Mohd. Ismail
v. Special Director, Enforcement Directorate (supra) which held that "a
confession of a co-accused person cannot be treated as substantive
evidence and can be pressed into service only when the Court is inclined
to accept other evidence and feels the necessity of seeking for an
assurance in support of the conclusion deducible therefrom." 20. In K.I. Pavunny v. Assistant Collector (supra), the Supreme Court
held in the context of a retracted confession, that "rule of prudence and
practice does require that the Court seeks corroboration of the retracted CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 11 of 19 confession from other evidence." It was further observed: 21. The upshot of the above discussion is that while the strict
requirements of the Evidence Act, 1872 would not apply to enquiries and
investigations undertaken by the DRI or the Customs Department, the
broad principle that statements made have to be voluntary and not under
threat, coercion, would nevertheless apply. Where the maker of such
statement retracts it later by alleging that it was obtained under coercion,
threat or duress, the burden was on the maker of the statement to prove
such coercion, threat or duress. Even where he fails to do so, the
adjudicating authority would not rely solely on the retracted statement but
would look for other independent corroboration. 22. The other aspect in the present case concerns the conduct of the
officers of the Department and their role in the large scale fraud
concerning the claim of duty drawback. The case explaining the legal
position in this regard require to be briefly discussed. Vishnu Kumar v.
Commissioner of Customs (supra), concerned the conduct of a sorting
assistant at the post office. In the context of a charge against him of
abetting the smuggling of dutiable goods under Section 112 of the Act,
the Court observed that "knowledge and intention being state of mind, it
may not be possible to prove them by way of direct evidence and they
have to be primarily inferred from the act and conduct of the charged CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 12 of 19 person, which need to be analysed in the light of attending facts and
circumstances of the case." 23. In Sudhir Sharma v. Commissioner of Customs (supra) the conduct
of the officers of the Department in a case of abetment of smuggling of
silk was being examined. The Court discussed the applicable law and
observed that the Appellant there was implicated not solely on the
confessional statement of one of the officers but also on the basis of other
material. After noticing the decision in Collector of Customs, Madras v.
D. Bhoormul (supra), the Court noted: 24. In light of the above legal position, the Court proceeds to examine the
present case, in light of the evidence brought on record by the
Department. At the outset, the Court would like to observe that its powers
of judicial review in the present appellate proceedings would not extend
to again analysing the evidence threadbare. The reference made hereafter
to the statements of the officers recorded during the investigation is for
the limited purpose of examining whether any relevant evidence has been
overlooked or whether the appreciation of the evidence by the authorities
below is perverse or whether the conclusions drawn on the analysis of
such evidence is that which no prudent person could have arrived at. 25. The Court notices that the criticism by the Appellant of the statements
of Lovkesh Sharma and Anwar is not that they were obtained under
duress or coercion but they were made belatedly with a view to escaping
liability and passing the blame on to the Appellant. Lovkesh Sharma and
Anwar were co-noticees with the Appellant. Their statements are no per CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 13 of 19 se exculpatory. Even the statement of Joseph Kuok does not appear to
indicate that he was denying his role altogether. 26. As far as Zaki Anwar is concerned, the first two statements on 9th and
10th February 1999 were made during the panchnama proceedings. He
was asked certain specific questions to which he gave replies. While it is
true that in the statement of 9th February 1999 he did not name the
Appellant, in the statement made on 10th February 1999 he definitely
mentioned that he had shown the samples of the goods to the Appellant
who was Assistant Commissioner (Export) at the relevant time. The
following questions and answers are relevant in this regard: 27. Three months later, i.e., on 4th May 1999 when his statement was
again recorded Zaki Anwar mentioned inter alia that the Appellant had
borrowed his mobile; that the Appellant might have made calls from the
said mobile to Rajesh Sharma; that he did show the shipping bills to the
Appellant. In his statement made on 14th September 1999 Zaki Anwar
was confronted with the statement of the Appellant made on 25th August
1999 and he gave the following answer: 28. Likewise Lovkesh Sharma in his statement dated 9th March 1999
 categorically stated that "I attended the work and cleared the goods for
 export on the verbal instruction of Shri S.N. Ojha." He mentioned that
 when instructions were given to him by the Appellant he was along with
 him. He stated that "I believe that similar instruction might have been
 given to Shri Joseph Kuok by Shri S.N. Ojha." In his further statement
 on 12th March 1999 when asked why the Superintendent, Mr. Kuok
 marked all the documents to Mr. Rajesh Bhasin to him, Lovkesh Sharma
 stated that "I can presume safely that he was also instructed by Shri S.N.
 Ojha accordingly." Lovkesh Sharma was then asked: 29. Lovkesh Sharma stuck to the stand he took on 15th March 1999 and
stated that whenever a shipment was made by Rajesh Kumar @ Rajesh
Bhasin "I was instructed by Sh. S.N. Ojha, Assistant Commissioner to
clear the goods." He also categorically stated that he had pointed out
discrepancies to the Appellant who nevertheless asked him to clear the
goods. 30. The statement of Joseph Kuok made on 17th February 1999 clearly
implicated the Appellant. The following question and answer are relevant CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 16 of 19 in this regard: 31. Joseph Kuok was consistent in his stand in the subsequent statement
made on 26th March 1999 when he gave the following answers: 32. On 26th August 1999 Joseph Kuok again stated: 33. The contention that the above statements were an afterthought or that
they are unreliable and inconsistent is not borne out. Further, as observed
by the Commissioner of Customs, there is sufficient corroboration by the
fact that as many as 100 consignments were allowed to be cleared without
proper verification. The Appellant has been unable to show that any
relevant piece of evidence has been overlooked or that the appreciation of
the evidence by the Commissioner or the CESTAT is perverse. 34. As regards the procedure followed, it is not the case of the Department
that the EDI computer system had thrown up these discrepancies. The
Department has been able to substantiate that the Appellant had given oral
instructions to his subordinates on how they should act. 35. The Court is conscious that in the criminal case the CBI chargesheet
did not name the Appellant as an accused. However, that cannot by itself
lead to the inference that in the adjudication proceedings, where the
standard is of preponderance of probabilities, the Department has failed to
establish its case. 36. The fact that Joseph Kuok was exonerated in the adjudication
proceedings does not in any affect the case against the Appellant. The
case of the Department against the Appellant stands substantiated by the
evidence on record. Considering the number of consignments and the
value thereof , the submission that there was heavy pressure of work and
therefore, the Appellant cannot be held responsible is unacceptable. 37. There is no legal infirmity in the impugned orders of the
Commissioner of Customs or the CESTAT. Further, the penalty levied on
the Appellant cannot be said to be excessive. It does not call for
interference. 38. The appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs of Rs. 10,000. The
interim order passed on 12th March 2007 is vacated. S.MURALIDHAR, J

 VIBHU BAKHRU, J
 NOVEMBER 05, 2015
 Rk CUS.A.C. 2/2007 Page 19 of 19