1. Accused persons Harish, Kanwaljit @ Lachu and Pankaj
 @ Neeraj are facing trial in the present case on allegations
 that in pursuant to common design of criminal conspiracy,
 they hatched a conspiracy to deal in fake Indian currency
 Notes (FICN) and they were found in possession of same.
 Accused Arjun Sharma is facing trial on allegations that he
 concealed himself from process of law. Brief Facts 2. On 01.04.2016, ASI Azad Singh (PW2) received a secret
 information that a person with counterfeit currency would
 come at about 11/11.30 am at Samadhi Raod towards Gali
 No.7, Om Vihar, Delhi. He conveyed this information to
 Inspector Ashok Kumar. 3. Thereafter, ASI Azad Singh formed a raiding party
 comprising of ASI Lakhwinder, HC Mahesh, HC
 Kavinder, Ct. Anil, Ct. Surender and Ct. Rajesh, Ct.
 Parvesh and Ct. Praveen. At about 1230 PM accused
 Harish was noticed coming on foot with a pithu bag on
 back from Hastsal village. At instance of secret informer
 accused Harish was apprehended by the raiding party.
 Fake Indian currency was recovered from possession of
 accused Harish. 4. On inquiry, accused Harish disclosed that counterfeit
 currency notes was brought by him from Betia,
 Champaran, Bihar. Recovered FICN were seized vide
 seizure memo Ex. PW2/A, newspapers Hindi and Bangla, Judgment Page 2 of 22 S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others

 clothes which were in the recovered Fastrack pithu bag of
 black color was seized vide memo Ex. PW2/B. On the
 basis of this recovery, ASI Azad prepared rukka
 Ex.PW2/C and got registered the present case. 5. After registration of FIR, investigation was handed over to
 Inspector Karan Singh (PW7). He prepared site plan
 Ex.PW2/B of the place of recovery at the instance of ASI
 Azad. IO interrogated accused Harish and effected his
 arrest. Disclosure statement Ex.PW7/A of accused Harish
 was recorded by IO. 6. Accused Kanwaljit Singh was arrested at the instance of
 accused Harish and his disclosure statement Ex. PW3/J
 was recorded. Pursuant to his disclosure statement accused
 Kanwaljit Singh led police team to his House bearing no.
 WZ-219, Gali no. 13, Hastal Road, Uttam Nagar from
 where 14 FICN of Rs. 1000/- were seized vide seizure
 memo Ex. PW3/G. IO seized a mobile phone make I-
 phone of accused Kanwaljit Singh vide seizure memo
 Ex.PW3/D. 7. During police custody and at the instance of accused
 Harish, accused Pankaj was arrested on 04.04.2016. His
 disclosure statement Ex.PW3/K was recorded and pursuant
 to his disclosure statement 36 FICN of Rs. 500/- were
 recovered from his house which were seized vide seizure
 memo Ex. PW3/I. Judgment Page 3 of 22 S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others 8. Thereafter, IO along with HC Mahesh, Ct. Parvesh, Ct. Surender were led by accused Harish to Betia, Bihar to the
 house of accused Arjun Sharma but accused Arjun Sharma
 was not found present there. 9. Accused Arjun Sharma was declared proclaimed offender. On 23.12.2016, accused Arjun Sharma surrendered and he
 was arrested but during his police custody nothing
 incriminating could be recovered. During investigation,
 case property in sealed condition was sent to Press Note,
 Nasik. IO obtained the CDRs of mobile phones of accused
 persons and analyzed the same. IO recorded statement of
 witnesses and then prepared charge-sheet. Charge 10.Vide order dated 09.01.2017, charge for offence
 punishable under Section 120-B and under Section
 489B / 489C / 120B IPC was framed against accused Harish
 Kumar, Kanwaljeet and Pankaj. Accused persons pleaded
 not guilty and claimed trial. 11.Accused Arjun Sharma was declared proclaimed offender
 vide orders dated 14.12.2016 and charge for the offence
 punishable under Section 174A - IPC was framed against
 him. He pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
 Prosecution Evidence 12. Prosecution examined 12 witnesses. 13.In their statement recorded under Section 294 CrPC,
 accused persons admitted DD No. 02 dated 01.04.2016 as
 Ex. PX-1, Report dated 17.05.2016 prepared by Sh. J.K.
 Chaudhary from Currency Note Press Ex. PX-2, Railway
 ticket of accused Harish Kumar Ex. PX-3, statement of
 account of accused Harish Kumar from Andhra Bank Ex.
 PX-4/A and certificate U/s 65(B) I.E. Act issued by
 Manager, Andhra Bank Ex. PX-4/B, statement of account
 of accused Pankaj from Canara Bank Ex. PX-5/A and
 certificate U/s 65(B) I.E. Act issued by Manager, Andhra
 Bank Ex. PX-5/B. Mobile Chart of mobile numbers of
 accused Harish, Kanwaljeet, Pankaj, Arjun Sharma and
 Munna Sharma as Ex. PX-6. Deposit of case property with
 the malkhana with road certificate no. 35/16 vide entry no.
 2290 dated 01.04.2016 and 2297 dated 04.04.2016 as
 Ex.PX-7. Aadhar Card of accused Kanwaljeet and Pankaj
 Ex. PW8/A-1 and Ex. PW9/A-1. 14.Accused persons also admitted CDR of mobile no. 9711606452 along with CAF and certificate U/s 65(B) I.E.
 Act as Ex. PX8/1 to 3, CDR of mobile no. 8002482294
 and certificate U/s 65(B) I.E. Act as Ex. PX9/1 & 2 and
 CDR of mobile no. 7256037071 and certificate U/s 65(B)
 I.E. Act as Ex.PX10/1 & Ex. PX10/2. S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others Plea of Accused Persons 15.In their statements recorded under Section 313 CrPC,
 accused persons stated that they have been falsely
 implicated. Arguments 16. Sh. Pankaj Bhatia Ld Addl. PP for State submitted that
 members of raiding team have duly proved recovery of
 FICN from the possession of accused persons. It is argued
 that recovery witnesses have withstood the test of cross-
 examination. It is submitted that case of prosecution stands
 proved beyond reasonable doubt, therefore, accused
 persons are liable to be convicted. 17.On the other hand, Ld. Defence Counsels submitted that
 FICN has been planted on accused persons and the alleged
 recovery of fake Indian Currency from their presence in
 absence of any independent witness is highly doubtful. It is
 stated that there is no evidence of conspiracy between the
 accused persons and hence, in absence of any reliable
 incriminating evidence, accused persons are entitled to be
 acquitted in the present case. 18. I have heard Ld. Addl. PP for State and Ld. defense
 counsel at length. I have perused the material on record.
 Appreciation of Evidence 19.Prosecution case in short is that pursuant to a secret
 information, a police team was constituted and accused
 Harish was apprehended by police team on 01.04.2016
 who was found in possession of FICN. At the instance of Judgment Page 8 of 22 S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others accused Harish, accused Kanwaljit and Pankaj were
 apprehended and from their houses fake Indian Currency
 was seized. Arrest and Recovery from accused Harish 20.In order to prove apprehension of accused Harish Kumar
 with FICN, prosecution examined members of police team
 ASI Azad Singh (PW2), PW3 ASI Anil Kumar and ASI
 Mahesh Tyagi (PW10). 21.ASI Azad Singh (PW2), PW3 ASI Anil Kumar and ASI
 Mahesh Tyagi (PW10) all of them in their examination-in-
 chief deposed that they reached behind Raghubir Singh
 School, Samadhi Road, Gali No.7 and accused Harish who
 was coming on foot at about 12.30 pm, with a pithu bag on
 back from Hastsal village was apprehended. Pithu bag
 carried by the accused Harish was checked and it was
 found containing some clothes and two packets. On
 opening of which FICN was found which was seized. As
 per the report of Currency Note Press Ex.PX-2, the
 currency notes found in possession of accused persons
 were not matching with genuine notes and the same were
 found to be high quality counterfeit notes. 22.Though PW-2 ASI Azad Singh has not been cross- examined on this aspect, the cross-examination of PW3
 ASI Anil Kumar reads as under: In fact the raid was conducted at Samadhi
 Road, Behind Raghubir Singh School, Phase
 VII, Om Vihar. We reached there at about
 10:30 am. It is wrong to suggest that I had
 not joined any such investigation. The raiding
 premises are thickly populated areas. It is correct that none of the memos prepared
 during investigation bears the signatures of
 any public witness. The search and seizure
 proceedings were neither video-graphed nor
 photographed. IO had not made any effort to
 hand over seal after use to any public person.
 There were houses across the road from
 where accused Harish was apprehended. I do
 not remember today if IO or any member of
 the raiding party including me visited the
 said shops to join the investigation. It is
 correct that all the memos in respect of
 Harish were prepared at one go and there was
 no addition or alteration thereafter. So far as I
 remember today, the information of arrest of
 accused Harish was given to his wife........... 23. PW10 ASI Mahesh Tyagi during his cross-examination in
 respect of apprehension and arrest of accused Harish
 deposed as under: 24.As per raiding team the recovery of fake Indian Currency
 was effected from accused Harish from a public place
 located in densely populated area. Testimony of recovery
 witnesses reflects that no independent witness was made to
 join the recovery proceedings. Search and seizure
 proceedings were neither video-graphed nor photographed
 nor any site plan of place of recovery was prepared. 25.PW10 ASI Mahesh Tyagi specifically deposed that police
 team was at the spot from 9.30 a.m. to 7.30 p.m (for about
 10 hours). He deposed that near about 1000 persons might
 have crossed the spot where police team were standing yet
 none joined the recovery proceedings. S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others 26. In "Ram Prakash Vs State", Crl.A. 1363/2014 Hon'ble Delhi
 High Court held as under: 27.As per prosecution case accused Harish was not
 apprehended by the police team as a matter of chance.
 Police team constituted a raiding party on definite
 information that accused Harish would come with FICN
 but despite opportunity no independent witness was made
 to join recovery proceedings. Place of recovery is thickly
 populated locality despite that none of the locals or
 shopkeepers were made to join investigation. 28.It seems hardly believable that although entire raiding
 party remained at the spot for about 10 hours but they were
 unable to locate a single public witness including any
 official or any personnel of any nearby place/school/shop
 to be associated in the proceedings. S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others 29. As held by the Hon'ble Court, that it is a routine practice
 for the police to state that passersby were asked to join and
 they declined and went away without disclosing their
 names. The Court should be wary of readily accepting
 such explanations. 30.In present case raid took place in broad daylight in a busy
 area as such a more convincing explanation has to be
 offered why despite remaining at the spot for about 10
 hours the police did not find a single public witness to join
 the proceedings. In these facts, apprehension and recovery
 from the accused Harish is hardly believable.
 Arrest & Recovery from accused Kanwaljit @ Lachu and
 Pankaj @ Neeraj 31.In order to prove arrest of accused Kanwaljit @ Lachu &
 Pankaj @ Neeraj and recovery of fake currency at their
 instance, prosecution examined members of police team
 PW3 ASI Anil Kumar and Inspector Karan Singh (PW7). 32. Both of them deposed that accused Kanwaljit and Pankaj
 pursuant to their disclosure statements got recovered fake
 currency from their respective houses. 33.In this regard, PW3 ASI Anil Kumar during his cross- examination deposed as under: 34. PW-7 Inspector Karan Singh during his cross-examination
 deposed as under: 35.In respect of recovery proceedings of Kanwaljit, PW3 ASI
 Anil Kumar deposed that he does not remember as to how
 many storeys the house of accused Kanwaljit was built nor
 he remembered the house number of accused Kanwaljeet.
 He admitted that police team stayed at his house for about
 an hour but no neighbor of the accused Kanwaljeet was
 made to join the investigation. No site plan of the place of
 recovery was prepared, neither recovery proceedings were
 photographed or video-graphed. No independent witness
 was called to join the investigation. 36.Similarly, in respect of recovery proceedings effected from
 the house of accused Pankaj, prosecution witnesses
 admitted that house of Pankaj was in residential area and
 there was also a market. No public witness joined the
 investigation. No photographer or videographer
 accompanying raiding party when they left for house of
 accused Pankaj. Despite members of raiding team carrying
 smartphone from which photography or videography could
 have been done, no photography or videography of the
 recovery proceedings was carried out nor police joined any
 public witness in the recovery of fake currency notes. S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others 37.As per prosecution case recoveries were effected from
 accused Kanwaljit and Pankaj not as a matter of chance.
 Investigating Officer had an information regarding the fact
 that accused Kanwaljit and Pankaj were having FICN in
 their respective homes but despite opportunity no
 independent witness was made to join recovery
 proceedings. Place of recovery was thickly populated
 locality despite that none of the locals or shopkeepers were
 made to join investigation. PW3 even failed to give the
 description of the house of accused Kanwaljit where they
 went to recover fake currency. 38.Since, police team had definite information of possibility
 of recovery of fake currency it should have been possible
 for the police to arrange for a videograph of the place or
 perhaps of the raid itself, if not photographs by at-least
 from their own smart phones but no such arrangement was
 made. In absence of independent witness and lack of
 trustworthy evidence, the recovery effected from accused
 Kanwaljit and Pankaj cannot be said to be proved beyond a
 reasonable doubt. 39.Allegations of conspiracy: Hon'ble Apex Court in Kehar
 Singh v. State (Delhi Administration ) AIR 1988 SC 1883
 has held that: 40.Thus, it is clear that proof of offence of conspiracy would
 require, in most cases, some kind of physical manifestation
 of agreement. Physical manifestations may not be proved
 by overt acts but may be evidenced by conscious acts or
 conduct of parties and reasonably clear to mark their
 concurrence. Where evidence is clear, offence of
 conspiracy may be proved by necessary implications.
 Innocuous, innocent or inadvertent acts and events should
 not enter the judicial verdict. Since more often than not,
 conspiracy would be proved on circumstantial evidence. 41.In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu AIR 2005 SC 3820 it
 is held that 'few bits here and a few bits there on which the
 prosecution relies cannot be held to be adequate for
 connecting the accused in the offence of criminal
 conspiracy'. 42. In the instant case, there is no evidence to show that there

 was any association, much less meeting of minds between Judgment Page 19 of 22 S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others accused persons. Prosecution has not placed any material
 on record which indicate meeting of minds between them.
 There is no material on record to substantiate conspiracy or
 any link between other accused persons and accused
 Harish who was caught initially. In absence of any material
 on record to establish conspiracy, accused persons cannot
 be held guilty for offence punishable u/s 120-B IPC. Allegations against accused Arjun Sharma 43.In respect of accused Arjun Sharma, Investigating Officer
 PW7 inspector Karan Singh deposed that after the arrest of
 accused Arjun Sharma, his police custody was taken.
 However, nothing incriminating was recovered from his
 possession. 44.Accused Arjun Sharma is only facing trial in the present
 case for the offence punishable under section 174-A IPC
 on allegations that he failed to appear before the Court as
 required by proclamation published under Section 82(1) Cr.P.C vide orders dated 14.12.2016. 45.In his statement recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C,
 accused Arjun stated that no recovery or fake currency was
 effected from his possession and only to save his prestige
 in the society, he kept himself away from the police for
 seeking anticipatory bail. Accused stated that he also
 approached Hon'ble High Court for grant of bail and
 thereafter, surrendered in Hon'ble concerned Court. S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others 46.Record reflects that accused Arjun Sharma had in-fact did
 not conceal himself from the process of law rather, he filed
 an anticipatory bail application before the Sessions Court
 which was dismissed on 19.05.2016. Thereafter another
 application was filed by the accused Arjun Sharma, which
 again was dismissed on 11.07.2016 and finally anticipatory
 bail application of accused Arjun Sharma was dismissed
 by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi vide orders dated
 14.07.2016. 47.Nonetheless, the record does not reflect that publication of
 the process under Section 82 / 83 Cr.P.C was done as
 directed by the Ld. Court. In CRL.M.C. 5328/2013 case
 titled as " Sunil Tyagi Vs. Govt of NCT of Delhi & Anr. "
 has held that prior to the publication under Section 82(2)(i) CrPC, the police shall also file an affidavit along with the
 photographs of the affixation of proclamation on the
 conspicuous part of the resident of the accused. The police
 officer shall fill and submit performa in the format of
 Annexure C before the Court at the stage of seeking
 proclamation. 48.It is also held that upon publication of the proclamation
 under Sections 82 / 83 CrPC, copy of that newspaper be
 sent by the newspaper agency by post to the address of the
 accused as being done in Civil matters under Order V Rule
 10 of CPC . However, investigating agency has not
 complied with the directions as laid down by Hon'ble High
 Court in above cited judgment. Accordingly, in above Judgment Page 21 of 22 S.C. No.57993/2016 State Vs. Harish & Others noted facts accused Arjun Sharma cannot be held guilty
 for offence punishable under Section 174-A IPC.
 Conclusion 49.In view of the above discussions, it is concluded that
 conspiracy and recovery of fake Indian Currency from the
 possession of accused Harish, Kanwaljit and Pankaj stands
 not proved beyond reasonable doubt. Offence under 174-A IPC also stands not proved against accused Arjun Sharma.
 Prosecution has failed to elevate its case from the realm of
 "may be true" to the plane of "must be true" as is
 indispensably required for conviction on a criminal charge
 against accused persons. 50.In the light of the above discussions, it is held that
 prosecution has failed to establish charge against accused
 persons beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, accused
 persons Harish, Kanwaljit @ Lachu, Pankaj @ Neeraj and
 Arjun Sharma are acquitted of the charges. They are directed
 to furnish bail bond u/s. 437-A Cr.P.C in the sum of Rs
 10,000/- with surety in the like amount.