1. The learned counsel appearing for the defendant no.2 submits
 that the defendant no.2 has been impleaded in a wrong name. Its
 correct name is 'Google LLC'. 2. The learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the Amended
 Memo of Parties to this respect, shall be filed within a week from
 today. 3. Let the same be done within a week from today. 4. It is directed that the defendant nos.2 and 3 shall provide to the
 plaintiff, through its counsel, the basic subscriber details of the
 defendant no.1 within a period of one week from today. 5. The plaintiff shall, thereafter, take fresh steps to serve the
 defendant no.1 on the given subscriber details, by taking necessary

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/08/2024 at 21:10:27
 steps. 6. This application has been filed by the plaintiff seeking ad
 interim ex parte injunction on the impugned video uploaded by the
 defendant no.1 on the platform of the defendant no.2, and thereafter
 re-circulated on the platform of the defendant no.3. The Plaintiff
 averts that the said video has been published by the defendant no.1
 with a mala fide intent, seeking to portray the plaintiff as a 'scam call
 centre'. 7. The learned counsel for the plaintiff fairly submits that post the
 filing of the present Suit, the impugned video has been deleted from
 the platform of the defendant no.2 and the same cannot also be
 accessed on the platform of the defendant no.3. 8. In case the plaintiff finds that the impugned video has
 resurfaced on the platforms of the defendant nos.2 and 3, the plaintiff
 will be at liberty to provide the URLs of the said video to the
 defendant nos.2 and 3, and on such intimation, in case it is found that
 the same video has resurfaced, the defendant nos.2 and 3 shall take
 steps to have the same blocked/removed from their platforms. 9. In case the defendant nos.2 and 3 find that the video complained
 of by the plaintiff is not the same as the video which is the subject
 matter of the present Suit, the defendant nos.2 and 3 shall convey the
 same to the plaintiff, and on receipt of such communication, the
 plaintiff shall be at liberty to file an appropriate application before this
 Court to seek the necessary directions. 10. The learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the plaintiff

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/08/2024 at 21:10:27
 has filed an affidavit of service. He hands over a copy of the same. 11. In the affidavit of service, it is mentioned that the defendant
 no.1 has been duly served with the summons and notice issued by this
 Court by way of an email dated 22.08.2024. The learned counsel for
 the plaintiff submits that the email on which the service was effected
 to the defendant no.1, is the same email which is given on the profile
 maintained by the defendant no.1 on the platform of the defendant
 no.2, where the impugned video was uploaded. 12. In spite of such service, none is appearing for the defendant
 no.1. 13. The learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the impugned
 video is clearly doctored and has been made by putting together pieces
 of different videos. The said video also incorrectly shows the
 premises, which are not forming part of the plaintiff's premises, as the
 premises of the plaintiff. 14. Having considered the contents of the plaint and hearing the
 submission made by the learned counsel for the plaintiff, I am of the
 view that the plaintiff has been able to make out a good prima facie
 case in its favour. The balance of convenience is also in favour of the
 Plaintiff and against the Defendants. The Plaintiff is likely to suffer a
 grave irreparable injury in case an ad interim ex-parte injunction is not
 granted. 15. Accordingly, the defendant no.1 is restrained from, in any
 manner circulating or republishing the impugned video on any of the
 social media platforms till further Orders. 16. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of the Code of Civil

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/08/2024 at 21:10:28
 Procedure, 1908, be made within two days from today by serving the
 defendant no.1 on the email which has been given on profile of the
 defendant no.1 maintained at the platform of the defendant no.2. 17. List before the learned Joint Registrar (Judicial) on 5th
 November, 2024, the date already fixed. NAVIN CHAWLA, J
 AUGUST 27, 2024/ns/VS
 Click here to check corrigendum, if any

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/08/2024 at 21:10:28