IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
 Cr.M.P.(M) No. 895 of 2018 a/w Cr.MP(M)

 . Nos. 896, 902 and 937 of 2018

 Reserved on: 11.9.2018. Date of decision: 18. 9. 2018. 1. Cr.MP(M) No. 895 of 2018

 Ankit .....Petitioner. ____________________________________________________
 Coram
 The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes
 For the Petitioner (s) : M/s. N.S. Chandel, Vinod Kumar
 Gupta, Ashwani Dhiman, Prashant 1 Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the Judgment?Yes ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 2 Chaudhary and Mr. Dhairya
 Sushant, Advocates. . Since all these petitions arise out of the same FIR bearing

FIR No. 40 of 2018 dated 26.4.2018, registered at Police Station, Gohar,

District Mandi, H.P. under Sections 489A , 489B , 489C , 489D , 120-B , 201 and 34 IPC, therefore, these were taken up together for consideration

and are being disposed of by a common judgment. 2. Cr.M.P.(M) Nos. 895 and 896 of 2018 have been filed by the

petitioners seeking pre-arrest bail, whereas Cr.MP(M) Nos. 902 and 937

of 2018 have been filed for securing regular bail. 3. The case of the prosecution is that on 26.4.2018 Sanjay

Kumar son of Sh. Prakash Dohru resident of Palampur District Kangra,

at present Manager Himachal Gramin Bank, Thunag, District Mandi, H.P.

made a complaint to the police to the effect that one Lal Singh son of

Dhani Ram, resident of Drunu, P.O. Shikawari, Tehsil Thunag, District

Mandi, H.P. had brought 2000 x 25 notes to the bank for depositing the ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 3 same in the bank. On the aforesaid date at about 11 a.m. Lal Singh

came to the bank and asked the official of the bank for depositing the

 . money by way of F.D. of sum of Rs.50,000/- and had shown the notes to

the bank official. On seeing the same, it was found to be fake one. The

bank official kept the notes with him. Lal Singh was informed that the

notes which he had brought to the bank were fake and was asked about

source of these notes and further asked whether he had some more

notes with him. The Manager of the Bank checked the pocket of Lal

Singh from where some more notes of the denomination of Rs.2000 x25

were found. The bank manager kept all the 50 notes of Rs.2000/- with

him and informed the police, out of which two notes of Rs.2000/- were

found to be torned. Lal Singh also tried to deposit the notes of Rs.2000/- in the bank as genuine, but due to the vigilance of the bank official he

could not succeed. The police registered the case FIR against the

accused person and he was arrested and taken into custody. During the

course of investigation the house of accused Lal Singh situated at

Village Drunu was also got searched, where the accused Lal Singh had

also kept the fake currency notes of the denomination of Rs.2000 x 55

which were kept by him in the box which worked out to be

Rs.1,10,000/-. The police also took into custody the currency notes vide

separate memo. The accused Lal Singh disclosed that this amount of

Rs.2,10,000/- he had received from one Teju Ram in lieu of selling half ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 4 Kg of charas. After that the accused Teju Ram was searched at place

Malana Dam. The accused Lal Singh identified the accused Teju who is

 . in fact Deva son of Ganga Ram resident of Maklana, Tehsil Bhunter,

District Kullu, H.P. The accused Deva was also investigated by the police

and took him to the Police Station. During the course of investigation,

accused Deva told to the police that he alongwith other person Kishah

alias Bhut resident of Malana on 15.4.2018 had sold 2 kg of Charas to

three persons of Haryana and from them they have received

Rs.5,60,000/-. The currency notes were checked and found to be fake. Out of the three persons, one of them was named Ankit. The police

searched the other accused persons, but they had gone to Gurgaon,

Haryana. During the course of investigation, the other accused person

Vikrant Bachan son of Sunil Kumar R/o H.No. 206/3, Gali No.4, Gopal

nagar near Bus Stand, Gurgaon and other accused Parvesh Kundu son

of Rakesh R/o H.No. S38 Chanakya Palace Uttamnagar, New Delhi

were associated in the investigation and it was found that Ankit son of

Ram Krishan and Chankya alias Chintu son of Kamal, Vikrant and

Parvesh Kundu were students of law in Rohtak University. 4. After conducting investigation in Gurgaon, Rohtak,

Faridabad, Jind, etc., the SI/SHO alongwith accompanying officials came

back to the Police Station with the vehicle, i.e. Swift Dezire bearing

Registration No. HR51-BG-0297, on 7.5.2018. On the same day, the ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 5 aforesaid accused Vikrant Bachchas and Parvesh Kundu, who had been

directed to come present in the Police Station for enquiry, came with

 . their respective fathers. They were associated in the investigation and

were subjected to deep and intensive interrogation. Both of them

disclosed that in the first week of March, 2018, all four of them were

residing together in Flat No. 428 of Omex City and such flat was on the

second floor. All four of them decided to buy a vehicle since they did not

have any conveyance there. Pravesh Kundu disclosed to his three other

friends that he had a colour printer with which he had printed one note of

Rs.100 denomination and he was able to use and circulate it in the

market. Whereupon all of them arrived at a consesus that they would

print fake currency notes. Ankit said that a person by the name of Deva

was known to him in Malana from whom he had purchased charas in the

past. Deva was an illiterate and gulible person and it would be easy to

deceive him. Ankit and Chanakya @ Chintu said that they would print

fake currency and buy charas from Deva. Therafter, they would sell the

same in Gurgaon and Rohtak and buy a vehicle. As per their plan,

Pravesh Kundu and Ankit went to the house of Pravesh Kundu in Delhi

and brought the colour printer from there. They got it re-filled in the

market at Rohtak and Vikrant bought a ream of A4 sheets for Rs. 300

and a green sparkle pen from a stationery shop. Vikrant had 7-8 notes of

Rs.2000/- denomination, whereas Ankit, Chanakya @ Chintu and ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 6 Parvesh Kundu also had 3-4 genuine notes of Rs. 2000/-. It has been

verified that on 4.4.2018 and 5.4.2018, Vikrant had deposited and

 . withdrawn money in his account bearing No. 09392191011967 in Rohtak

Bank. All aforesaid four accused had printed fake currency notes in their

said flat in the first week of April. They exchanged the genuine currency

notes, with the help of which they had printed fake currency, in the bank,

petrol pump and with the shopkeepers and again printed fake currency

notes of Rs. 2000/- denomination as 8/9 notes of one series had been

found amongst the recovered notes of Rs.2000/- denomination(SIC). From the investigation carried so far, it has been revealed that all four of

them, i.e. Ankit, Chanakya @ Chintu, Vikrant and Parvesh Kundu had

played different roles while printing fake currency. The notes had been

cut by Parvesh Kundu but he sustained injuries in his hand in this

process and hence, Ankit cut the remaining notes. While Vikrant

Bacchchas made a strip of green water mark on the notes with the help

of green sparkle pen and Chanakya counted the notes and cleaned

them up and thus had printed fake currency worth 5/6 lakh rupees. On

12.4.2018, all four of them set out on a tour from Rohtak by their Swift

Dezire car bearing No. HR51-BG-0297 and on 13.4.2018, at around

10.00 A.M., arrived in the Guest House at Kasol in District Kullu after

having travelled through Panipat, Ropar and Mandi. They rested for a

while at Kasol and thereafter, they went around in Kasol and Manikaran ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 7 and spent their night in Guest House at Kasol itself. On 14.4.2018, they

stayed back at Kasol till 3.00 p.m. as Parvesh Kundu was not feeling

 . well. Vikrant brought him medicine and the latter stayed back at Kasol on

that day while Ankit made Chanakya @ Chintu and Vikrant to board his

vehicle and drove them to Malana. Chanakya @ Chintu drove the

vehicle and they reached Malana around 6.00 p.m. Ankit phoned up his

old friend Deva of Malana and after some time Deva came to Malana

Road at Narang in order to meet Ankit. Both of them talked for quite

some time and thereafter Ankit paid Deva four lakh rupees in the

denomination of Rs.2000/- and thereafter Deva left for his village in

Malana. Ankit repeatedly called up Deva but he did not come. Thereafter, at about 2.00 to 2.30 a.m., Deva came alongwith a long

bearded fellow, whose name was later found to be Kishah @ Bhoot. Deva firstly sent the other person and then the other person phoned up

Deva and called him to the vehicle. At that time, everybody was sitting in

the vehicle and then Deva boarded the vehicle and handed over a

polythene bag containing charas to Ankit. Then Ankit took out some

more money in the form of Rs.2000/- denomination from his purse and

dashboard of the vehicle and paid it to Deva. Subsequently, all three of

them reached back by their vehicle in their Guest House in Kasol at 5.00

a.m. Thereafter, they took along their friend Parvesh Kundu and reached

Rohtak by their vehicle on 15.4.2018 at around 3.00 p.m. Later, they left ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 8 for their respective hostels. Next day, i.e. on 16.4.2018, Ankit went to his

home in Faridabad by his vehicle. The SIM bearing No. 9518437990

 . with which Ankit had spoken to the accused Deva regarding purchasing

of charas was found to have been issued in the name of Vikrant since

January, 2018 in Rohtak. However, the said SIM No. was being used by

Chanakya @ Chintu since February, 2018 and he only had given it to

Ankit for making calls during the incident. Whatever calls were made to

Deva on his mobile No. 9805914335 were made from the said mobile

No. 9518437990 only because Ankit only knew Deva as Ankit had

purchased charas from him in small quantities earlier also. Chanakya @

Chintu had also met Deva earlier in the company of Ankit in Malana. Accused Deva identified Ankit, Chanakya @ Chintu and Vikrant

Bachchas from their photographs. On finding sufficent grounds, the

accused Vikrant Bachchas and Parvesh Kundu (were arrested) on

7.5.2018 at 10.00 a.m. and section 120 B was added in the instant case. 5. On 9.5.2018, IO/ ASI Narayan Lal took the accused Vikrant

Bachchas and Parvesh Kundu, under police custody, to the Poornima Guest

House at Kasol, District Kullu and carried out their interrogation. Spot Map

qua pointing out was prepared and the Entry Register of Poornima Guest

House, Kasol was checked. As per the entry at Sl. No. 503, three men were

found to be staying in Room No. 202 on 13.4.2018 while as per Sl. No. 504,

one man and a woman were found to be staying in Room No. 203. According

to the entries, two boys were staying with Parvesh Kundu in Room No. 202 ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 9 while one woman namely Anu was staying with Vikrant Bachchas in Room No. 203. On checking the record of Guest House, it was found that Room No. 202

 . was booked in the name of Parvesh Kundu. However, his ID and that of other

two boys namely Ankit and Chanakya @ Chintu were not found while IDs of

Vikrant and his girl friend namely Anu, D/o Sher Singh, R/o Koyalpur, District

Jhajjar, Gurgaon, Haryana who stayed in room No. 203 were found. One

Mobile No. 8950005969 was found mentioned in the entry register which

belonged to Chanakya @ Chintu, apart from a car No. HR51-BG-0297 which

belonged to Ankit's father Sh. Ram Krishan. The IDs so produced and the

attested photocopies of entry registry were taken into police possession vide a

memo. Statements u/s 161 Cr.P.C of the witnesses were recorded. During

interrogation, Vikrant Bachchas revealed that he alongwith Anu, Parvesh

Kundu had given their respective IDs to Ankit and Chanakya @ Chintu and

had already paid the expenditure of the tour to Ankit. While in the guest

house, only Ankit and Chanakya @ Chintu talked about getting rooms on rent

and negotiated their tariff and they only made entries in the names of Parvesh

and Vikrant and also appended signatures in their names. The ID s of Parvesh

Kundu, Ankit and Chanakya, which were deposited in the guest house at the

time of making entries were found to have been pulled out by Ankit and

Chanakya @ Chintu. They have tried to conceal their presence (in the said

guest house) so that no proof against them could be found out. Hence, Section

201 IPC was added in the said case against the accused Ankit and Chanakya

@ Chintu. During the course of interrogation, Vikrant Bachchas revealed that

the aforesaid Anu was his girl friend who had accompanied him on this tour. However, on 14.4.2018, she was not keeping well, hence she and Parvesh

Kundu stayed back in the Guest House only and did not go to Malana. Anu did

 . not know about the said incident (of buying charas etc.). Sections 489A , 489C and 489D have been imposed against the accused Ankit, Chanakya @Chintu,

Vikrant Bachchas and Parvesh Kundu in the instant case. 6. On 11.5.2018, the SI/SHO, took accused Parvesh Kundu, under

police custody, to New Delhi and Rohtak and carried out the investigations. During the course of investigation, the house of accused Parvesh Kundu was

searched and it was found that Parvesh Kundu had knowingly burnt down the

printer at Dwarka Park and dumped it in the 'Nullah' of Sector 19 of New Delhi

with the intention to destroy the evidence. The said place was pointed out and

the spot map thereof was prepared. The flat in OMEX City at Rohtak where

fake currency had been printed was searched and the spot map was prepared. Statements u/s 161 Cr.P.C. of witnesses were recorded. All four accused were

found to have cleaned up the room with an intention of destroying the

evidence. Whereupon, Section 201 IPC was imposed against all the four

accused, i.e. Vikrant Bachchas, Parvesh Kundu, Ankit and Chanakya @Chintu,

for destroying the evidence. Anu, the girl friend of Vikrant, was also associated

in the investigation and her statement was recorded. Statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C

of the shopkeeper Vinay Kumar, from whose shop in Civil Lines, Rohtak, Ankit

and Parvesh Kundu had got the refilling of colour printer done and also bought

ink for the printer, was recorded. 7. On 28.6.2018, ASI/IO Narayan Lal, visited the Everest Power

Private Ltd. at Malana-II, District Kullu, and got the footage of 14.4.2018 and ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 11 15.4.2018 of the CCTV camera installed outside their office which records the

activities of people and movement of vehicles crossing on Malana road. The

 . said footage was uploaded on the DVD. On watching the footage/DVD, the

aforesaid vehicle bearing registration No. HR51-BG-0297, was found to be

going from Jari to Malana side at 5.13.58 p.m.on 14.4.2018 and the same was

found returning from Malana to Jari side at 04.31.49 a.m. on 15.4.2018. 8. One accused Kishah @ Bhoot, R/o VPO Malana, Tehsil Bhuntar,

P.S. and District Kullu has been absconding since 28.4.2018 in the case who is

being looked for both secretively as well as in an open manner at his home,

village and in his area and has not been apprehended till date. Whereupon,

arrest warrant from the Ld. Court of JMIC, Gohar, has been obtained in order

to carry out the proceedings u/s 82 of Cr.P.C. against him. 9. According to the respondents, from the investigations carried out

till date, it has been found that the accused Ankit, Vikran Bachchas, Parvesh

Kundu and Chanakya @ Chintu together had printed fake currency amounting

to six lakh rupees with the help of colour printer of accused Parvesh Kundu in

the flat of OMEX City at Rohtak in the first week of April. On 12.4.2018, all four

accused alongwith Anu, the girl friend of Vikrant, had stayed in the Poornima

Guest House at Kasol in District Kullu with their car bearing Registration No.

HR51-BG-0297. In the evening of 14.4.2018, accused Ankit, Vikrant

Bachchas, and Chanakya @ Chintu went to Malana by the said vehicle. On

reaching there, Ankit phoned up Deva on his mobile phone No. 9805914335

from the phone No. 9518437990, which had been issued in the name of

Vikrant Bachchas, and called him to the spot named Narang in Malana. Whereupon Kishah @ Bhoot also came along with Deva to the spot at Narang

at night. They purchased 2 Kg. Charas from both of them and Ankit, in the

 . presence of his two other friends Vikrant and Chanakya @ Chintu, paid

accused Deva fake currency amounting to Rs.5,60,000/- and thereafter all the

three accused came back to Guest House at Kasol and later returned to

Rohtak along with their other friend Parvesh Kundu and Anu. On 16.4.2018,

the said Deva bought 1/2 Kg charas from the accused Lal Singh at the spot,

i.e. near Malana River close to Bridge IV and paid him fake currency

amounting to Rs.2,10,000/- in the denomination of Rs.2000/- notes. On

26.4.2018,during investigation Rs. 1,00,000/- was recovered from the accused

Lal in Bagsyad Bank and subsequently on 27.4.2018, Rs.1,10,000/- was

recovered from his house. As per the CDR of the mobile phones of the

aforesaid accused, they were found to have spoken with each other on the day

of incident and their location was traced to the Malana area of Himachal

Pradesh. During the course of investigation, it was found out that accused

Ankit, Chanakya @ Chintu, Parvesh Kundu and Vikrant Bachchas had entered

into a criminal conspiracy and printed fake currency and the printer they used

for printing such currency was destroyed by the accused Parvesh Kundu. Offence u/s 489B , 489C of IPC by the accused Lal Singh, offence u/s 489B , 489C , 120B , 34 IPC by the accused Deva, offence u/s 489A , 489B , 489C , 489D , 201 , 120B of IPC by Vikrant Bachchas, offence u/s 489A , 489B , 489C , 489D , 201 , 120B by the accused Parvesh Kundu, offence u/s 489A , 489B , 489C , 489D , 201 , 120B by the accused Chanakya @ Chintu and offence u/s

489A , 489B , 489C , 489D , 201 , 120B by the accused Ankit and u/s 489B , 489 ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 13 C, 34 IPC by the accused Kisha @ Bhoot were found to be committed. Challan against the accused Lal Singh, Deva Vikrant Bachchas and Parkash

 . Kundu was prepared and presented in the Ld. Court of JMIC, Gohar, District

Mandi on 24.7.2018. 10. The petitioner Chanakya @ Chintu alongwith his three friends

Ankit, Vikrant Bachchas and Parvesh Kundu had printed fake currency in their

residential flat in Rohtak as per their plan. He drove the vehicle bearing No.

HR51-BG-0297 to Malana from Kasol and his friends Vikrant Bachchas and

Ankit accompanied him. Chanakya @ Chintu along with his friends Ankit and

Vikrant Bachchas was sitting in the aforesaid vehicle when Ankit bought 2 Kg. charas from Deva and paid the latter in fake currency. He had given his ID for

effecting entries (in the Register) in Poornima Guest House at Kasol, however,

he pulled out his ID from the other ID s in order to conceal his presence in the

Guest House. The location of mobile number 8950005969 of the accused

Chanakya @ Chintu was traced in Malana and Kasol of District Kullu in

Himachal Pradesh from 13.4.2018 to 15.4.2018. 11. Both the petitioners Ankit and Chanakya alias Chintu had

filed petition(s) for anticipatory bail in the Court of learned Additional

Sessions Judge (2), Mandi, which were rejected on 11.7.2018. Both the

petitioners thereafter remained associated in the investigation of the

instant case and on 21.8.2018 learned Court again directed the

petitioners to remain associated in the investigation and they complied

with the orders. 12. On the basis of the analysis of call details of mobile No.

9654290381 belonging to petitioner Ankit, it has been revealed that

 . petitioner Ankit had continuously spoken on mobile Nos. 8800456880,

9873591598, 9899076606, 7011805340 and 8076820001. Whereas, the

call details of mobile No. 8950005969 belonging to petitioner Chanakya

alias Chintu, it has been revealed that petitioner Chanakya alias Chintu

had continuously spoken to mobile Nos.999277612, 9034604360,

9896205294, 8708371711,
 r 8708271769 and 7988748009 and

whereupon the petitioners were enquired about it. 13. The petitioner Ankit had disclosed that first mobile number

was that of his friend Manish, phone number at serial No.2 was that of

mother of Manish, phone number at serial No.3 belongs to his brother

Sanjeev, phone number at serial No.4 belongs to his father Ram

Krishan, whereas phone number at serial No.5 belongs to the sister of

Manish and they even regularly talked to each other as Manish was

good friend of Ankit and had in fact accompanied him last year on a visit

of Himachal Pradesh. Upon this, Manish S/o Sh. Satish Kumar, R/o

House No. 145 Police Line, Sector 30, Faridabad was summoned for

questioning at Police Station and he informed that Ankit was a good

friend of his and, therefore, they are regularly in touch with each other

over telephone numbers and for this purpose would also use the phone

numbers belonging to other family members. 14. Likewise, when the petitioner Chanakya alias Chintu was

questioned about the phone numbers, he revealed that the mobile No. at

 . Sl. No. 1 belonged to Shekhar Sharma, son of his maternal aunt, R/o

Hissar, mobile No. at Sl. No. 2 belonged to his friend Om Shankar, R/o

Jind, mobile No. at Sl. Nos. 3 & 4 belonged to his father Sh. Kamal Raj

Sharma, mobile No. at Sl. No. 5 belonged to his friend Rohit, R/o Jind,

and mobile No. at Sl. No. 6 belonged to his mother Vinod Bala. He often

used to speak to all of them. 15. In the status report filed before the Court, it has been

averred that both the petitioners are not revealing the truth with regard to

fake currency and Charas and are consistently telling lies and, hence,

they are required to be interrogated in police custody and are yet to be

taken to Malana and Kasol for pointing out the spot(s). It is further

averred that the petitioner Ankit has been found to be the main accused

because at two or three times earlier he had purchased Charas from

Deva and knows him very well. It is lastly averred that both the

petitioners belong to the other State and are clever and cunning and

crime committed by them relates to the security of the State being

students of law as they are studying in 4 th year and are well acquainted

with law. Therefore, if they are enlarged on bail, there is every likelihood

of their jumping the bail, which would adversely affect the investigations. 16. I would first deal with the petitions seeking pre-arrest bail

because the two petitions seeking pre-arrest bail as the result thereof is

 . bound to have an effective bearing on the two petitions seeking regular

bail. 17. At the outset, it may be observed that the considerations for

grant of bail envisaged under Sections 437 and 439 Cr.P.C.are different. An anticipatory bail is a pre-arrest legal process which directs that if the

person in whose favour it is issued is thereafter arrested on the

accusation in respect of which the direction is issued, he shall be

released on bail. The distinction between an ordinary order of bail and

an order of anticipatory bail is that whereas the former is granted after

arrest and therefore means release from the custody of the police, the

latter is granted in anticipation of arrest and is therefore, effective at the

very moment of arrest. A direction under Section 438 Cr.P.C. is therefore

intended to confer conditional immunity from the 'touch' or confinement

contemplated by Section 46 of the Code. 18. There is no warrant for reading into Section 438 the

conditions and limitations subject to which bail can be granted under Section 437 (1) . The expression 'if it thinks fit', which occurs in Section

438 (1) in relation to the power of the High Court or the Court of Session,

is conspicuously absent in Section 437 (1) . The High Court, therefore,

erred in laying down that the discretion under Section 438 cannot be ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 17 exercised in regard to offences punishable with death or imprisonment

for life unless, the court at the stage of granting anticipatory bail, is

 . satisfied that such a charge appears to be false or groundless. Circumstances may justify grant of anticipatory bail in cases such as

criminal breach of trust for which the punishment provided is

imprisonment for life, though of course, the court is free to refuse

anticipatory bail in any case if there is material before it justifying such

refusal. r 19. An order of anticipatory bail does not in any way, directly or

indirectly, take away from the police their right to investigate into charges

made or to be made against the person released on bail. While granting

relief under Section 438 (1) , appropriate conditions can be imposed under Section 438 (2) so as to ensure an uninterrupted investigation. One of such

conditions can even be that in the event of the police making out a case of a

likely discovery under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, the person released on

bail shall be liable to be taken in police custody for facilitating the discovery. Besides, if and when the occasion arises, it may be possible for the

prosecution to claim the benefit of Section 27 of the Evidence Act in regard to

a discovery of facts made in pursuance of information supplied by a person

released on bail. When a person not in custody approaches a police officer

investigating an offence and offers to give information leading to the discovery

of a fact, having a bearing on the charge which may be made against him, he

may appropriately be deemed to have surrendered himself to the police. Section 46 of the Code of Criminal Procedure does not contemplate any

formality before a person can be said to be taken in custody: submission to the

 . custody by word or action by a person is sufficient. So also there is no warrant

for the proposition that where a legitimate case for the remand of the offender

to the police custody under Section 167(2) can be made out by the

investigating agency, the power under Section 438 should not be exercised. 20. It is also not proper to hold that in serious cases like economic

offences involving blatant corruption at the higher rungs of the executive and

political power the discretion under Section 438 of the Code should not be

exercised. It is not possible for the court to assess the blatantness of

corruption at the stage of anticipatory bail. 21. It is also not possible to hold that anticipatory bail cannot be

granted unless it is alleged and shown that the proposed accusations are

malafide. 22. Under Section 438 the applicant has undoubtedly to make out a

case for the grant of anticipatory bail. But one cannot go further and say that

he must make out a 'special case'. A wise exercise of judicial power inevitably

takes care of the evil consequences which are likely to flow out of its

intemperate use. 23. No one is justified in reading the conclusion that the power under

Section 438 must be exercised in 'exceptional cases only' merely because it is

of an extraordinary character. 24. In regard to anticipatory bail, if the proposed accusation appears

to stem not from motives of furthering the ends of justice but from some ulterior ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 19 motive, the object being to injure and humiliate the applicant by having him

arrested, a direction for the release of the applicant on bail in the event of his

 . arrest would generally be made. On the other hand, if it appears likely,

considering the antecedents of the applicant, that taking advantage of the

order of anticipatory bail he will flee from justice, such an order would not be

made. But the converse of these propositions is not necessarily true. In fact,

there are numerous considerations, the combined effect of which must weigh

with the court while granting or rejecting anticipatory bail. The nature and

seriousness of the proposed charges, the context of the events likely to lead to

the making of the charges, a reasonable possibility of the applicant's presence

not being secured at the trial, a reasonable apprehension that witnesses will

be tampered with and "the larger interests of the public or the state" are some

of the considerations which the court has to keep in mind while deciding an

application for anticipatory bail. 25. The question whether to grant bail or not depends for its answer

upon a variety of circumstances, the cumulative effect of which must enter into

the judicial verdict. Any one single circumstance cannot be treated as of

universal validity or as necessarily justifying the grant or refusal of bail. Therefore, the High Court and the Court of Session to whom the application for

anticipatory bail is made ought to be left free in the exercise of their judicial

discretion to grant bail if they consider it fit so to do on the particular facts and

circumstances of the case and on such conditions as the case may warrant. Similarly, they must be left free to refuse bail if the circumstances of the case

so warrant, on considerations similar to those mentioned in Section 437 or ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 20 which are generally considered to be relevant under Section 439 of the Code. The judicial discretion granted under Section 438 should not be read down by

 . reading into the statute conditions that are not to be found therein. The Courts

have to be allowed a little free play in the joints if the conferment of

discretionary power is to be meaningful. There is no risk involved in entrusting

a wide discretion to the Court of Session and the High Court in granting

anticipatory bail because, firstly these are higher courts manned by

experienced persons, secondly, their orders are not final but are open to

appellate or revisional scrutiny and above all because, discretion has always to

be exercised by courts judicially and not according to whim, caprice or fancy. On the other hand, there is a risk in foreclosing categories of cases in which

anticipatory bail may be allowed because life throws up unforeseen

possibilities and offers new challenges which have to be met. (See: Shri

Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and others vs. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 565). 26. The Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sibbia 's case (supra) after taking into consideration the entire law clarified the

legal position with regard to anticipatory bail in the following terms: 27. However, before parting, the Hon'ble Supreme Court cautioned

the Courts granting blanket order of anticipatory bail, as according to it, a

 . blanket order would protect and every kind of allegedly unlawful activity and is

therefore, bound to cause serious interference with the findings of the police. The Courts are required to apply its own mind and decide whether a case has

been made out for grant of anticipatory bail. It was lastly held that in certain

exceptional circumstances, the Court can on the basis of material placed on

record directed that the order of anticipatory bail will remain in operation only

for a week or so until after the filing of the FIR in respect of matters covered

by the order. These orders, according to the Hon'ble Supreme Court have

worked satisfactorily, causing the least inconvenience to the individuals

concerned and least interference with the investigational rights of the police. The Court has attempted through those orders to strike a balance between

the individual's right to personal freedom and the investigational rights of the

police. 28. The legal position has thereafter been meticulously analyzed by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre vs. State of

Maharashtra and others (2011) 1 SCC 694 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme

Court again took into consideration the entire law on the subject of anticipatory

bail and regular bail including Constitution Bench decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia 's case (supra) and held that the

following factors and parameters can be taken into consideration by the Court

while dealing with anticipatory bail: 29. It was further observed that arrest should be the last option and it

should be restricted to those exceptional cases where arresting of the

accused is imperative in the facts and circumstances of that case. The court

must carefully examine the entire available record and particularly the

allegations which have been directly attributed to the accused and these

allegations are corroborated by other material and circumstances on record. However, it was also clarified that the factors as set out above are by no

means exhaustive but they are only illustrative in nature because it is difficult

to clearly visualise all situations and circumstances in which a person may

pray for anticipatory bail. This is best left for discretion of the Judge, who after

taking into consideration the entire material on record and then pass an order

and this power was vested only with the Judges of the superior courts so that

the discretion would be properly exercised. 30. Another landmark decision on the issue is or fairly recent

judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bhadresh Bipinbhai

Sheth vs. State of Gujarat and another (2016) 1 SCC 152, wherein it was

held that while considering application for grant of anticipatory bail, Court is not

concerned with feasibility of framing charge or merits thereof as that would be

a matter before trial court for arriving at finding on evidence. 31. The Hon'ble Supreme Court after taking into consideration the

various judgments including one rendered by the Constitution Bench of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia 's case (supra) and latter ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 25 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre case (supra), culled out the following principles for grant of bail as under: to grant anticipatory bail. This virtually, reduces the salutary power

 conferred by Section 438 CrPC to a dead letter. A person seeking
 anticipatory bail is still a free man entitled to the presumption of
 innocence. He is willing to submit to restraints and conditions on his

 freedom, by the acceptance of conditions which the court may deem fit
 to impose, in consideration of the assurance that if arrested, he shall
 be enlarged on bail. 25.5.The proper course of action on an application for anticipatory bail ought
 to be that after evaluating the averments and accusations available on
 the record if the court is inclined to grant anticipatory bail then an
 interim bail be granted and notice be issued to the Public Prosecutor. After hearing the Public Prosecutor the court may either reject the

 anticipatory bail application or confirm the initial order of granting bail.
 The court would certainly be entitled to impose conditions for the grant
 of anticipatory bail. The Public Prosecutor or the complainant would be

 at liberty to move the same court for cancellation or modifying the
 conditions of anticipatory bail at any time if liberty granted by the court
 is misused. The anticipatory bail granted by the court should ordinarily

 be continued till the trial of the case. 25.6. It is a settled legal position that the court which grants the bail also has
 the power to cancel it. The discretion of grant or cancellation of bail
 can be exercised either at the instance of the accused, the Public

 Prosecutor or the complainant, on finding new material or
 circumstances at any point of time. 25.7. In pursuance of the order of the Court of Session or the High Court,
 once the accused is released on anticipatory bail by the trial court,
 then it would be unreasonable to compel the accused to surrender
 before the trial court and again apply for regular bail. 25.8. Discretion vested in the court in all matters should be exercised with
 care and circumspection depending upon the facts and circumstances
 justifying its exercise. Similarly, the discretion vested with the court ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 27 under Section 438 CrPC should also be exercised with caution and
 prudence. It is unnecessary to travel beyond it and subject the wide

 . power and discretion conferred by the legislature to a rigorous code of

 self-imposed limitations. 25.9. No inflexible guidelines or straitjacket formula can be provided for grant

 or refusal of anticipatory bail because all circumstances and situations
 of future cannot be clearly visualised for the grant or refusal of
 anticipatory bail. In consonance with legislative intention, the grant or
 refusal of anticipatory bail should necessarily depend on the facts and

 circumstances of each case. 32. In addition to that, the factors and parameters that need to be

taken into consideration while dealing with anticipatory bail as laid down in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre case (supra), were reiterated in para 25.10

and, therefore, the same are not being reproduced. 33. Thus, what can be reasonably taken from the aforesaid

exposition of law is that while granting bail, the Court has to keep in mind the

nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the severity of

the punishment which conviction will entail, the character of the accused,

circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of

securing the presence of the accused at the trial. (See : Central Bureau of

Investigation vs. V. Vijay Sai Reddy (2013) 7 SCC 452). 34. The instant bail petitions have been vehemently opposed by the

respondent-State on the ground that the petitioners are required for custodial

interrogation. 35. What is custodial interrogation, its purpose, whether it is legal

and recognized by law, has been meticulously considered by the learned

Single Judge of Kerala High Court in bail application No. 4274 of 2008 titled ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 28 Hyderali vs. State of Kerala , decided on 5.8.2008, wherein it was observed

as under: without police custody. This is clear from what the Constitution Bench
 of the Supreme Court held in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of
 Punjab , (1980) 2 SCC 565) thus : 20. So, strictly speaking, there will not be any "custodial interrogation" 21. Custodial interrogation is legal: It is also relevant to note that
 "custodial interrogation" is not forbidden by law. On the other hand, it ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 29 is legal and recognized by the statute. Under section 167(2) of the
 code, the Magistrate is empowered to release the accused to "police

 . custody" and such custody is allowed, mostly for the purpose of

 interrogation. During such period, an accused is interrogated by the
 police in police custody and recovery may also be effected. But, even
 such custody cannot be given to the police, after expiry of the first

 fifteen days of remand. That is the settled legal position. Therefore,
 the custodial interrogation at the early stage of investigation after the
 arrest has some statutory importance. 22. The police has the right to keep the accused in their custody for
 some time after the arrest and it is enough that the accused is
 produced before Magistrate within 24 hours. During this period,
 between arrest and production, the accused is subjected to some

 restraint and he will be under the physical control by the police. His

 movements will be restricted and it can then be said that he was in
 "police custody". It is during such custody that he is subjected to
 "custodial interrogation" and recovery of various material objects are

 effected through him. 23. Custodial interrogation - purpose. Thus, "custodial interrogation" 24. Thus, the police can, in law, procure or elicit confession, statement
 or information, which is admissible in law or not, by interrogation of
 the accused in police custody. Such interrogation is ordinarily referred
 to as "custodial interrogation". The court may accept or reject the ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 30 materials collected during such custodial interrogation, after putting
 them to judicial scrutiny. . 25. Denial of custodial interrogation if proper? But, it may not be

 proper to deny an investigator an opportunity for "custodial
 interrogation" of an accused, in fit cases. Unless there are strong

 reasons to avoid an accused being subjected to "custodial
 interrogation", the court shall not stand in the way of the police
 discharging their official duty, which is sanctioned by law. It must be
 remembered that investigating agency also plays a very vital role in

 criminal justice system. The evidence- collection is a part of
 investigation, as per law. The aggrieved or the victim ordinarily
 approaches the police and not the court, for redressing their
 grievance, immediately after an offence is committed. 26. As per the provisions of the code, when a crime is committed
 against him or her, he may move the police first, unless otherwise
 prescribed. On doing so, the investigator may proceed to collect
 evidence relating to such crime. The accused may also be subjected

 to custodial interrogation, especially in cases where certain facts
 whether incriminating or not are in his exclusive knowledge. Such
 materials are collected legally by interrogation of the accused in

 "police custody". There is no illegality in "custodial interrogation". But

 it is legally recognized by statute. 27. So, when the investigator alerts the court on the need for custodial

 interrogation, the court must pay due attention to the need expressed
 and if the court finds that his request is reasonable, the court shall not
 refuse the same and deny the opportunity to "custodial interrogation",
 as permitted by law. It must be remembered that it is based on the
 materials collected by the investigator, which includes evidence
 through custodial interrogation also, that he forms an opinion whether
 there is a case to place the accused before the court for trial or not by
 filing of a charge-sheet under Section 173. 28. Referring to "investigation", the Supreme Court in Union of India v.
 Prakash P. Hinduja , (2003) 6 SCC 195 held as follows: The purpose of "custodial interrogation" is also thus, a factor which

 has to be borne in mind. 29. Interrogation means? The word, "interrogate ", as per dictionary
 means, "to ask somebody a lot of questions over a long period of
 time, especially in an aggressive way" (vide Oxford Dictionary). Such

 'aggressiveness' within a reasonable limit may not amount to torture,

 because the very expression "interrogation" itself is attached with
 some sort of aggressiveness. Therefore, any allegation of a possible
 aggressiveness in questioning by police may not be a sufficient
 ground to deny to the police, their opportunity to have "custodial

 interrogation" of the accused. This is intended for collecting evidence
 and to redress the grievance of the victim by bringing the accused

 before law. When the police officer confronts a guilty person, needless
 to say, he may not readily give answers to all the queries made. He

 may be reluctant to avoid the inconvenient truth and hence it may
 require sustained questioning of the accused over a long period and
 in some cases, in an aggressive manner also. 30. A few observations made by the Supreme court may be relevant
 in this context. While setting aside an order of anticipatory bail granted
 by Andra Pradesh High court, rejecting the plea for "custodial
 interrogation", the Supreme Court in State rep. by the CBI v. Anil
 Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187 held as follows: 31. The ground realities have to be understood by the courts and it
 shall not be impractical, especially when the investigation is at the

 initial stage. It must be remembered that it is the duty of the

 investigating agency to collect sufficient materials and place them
 before court. So, in short the court has to strike a balance between
 the right of a victim to be protected by law and also the freedom or
 liberty of the accused which shall not be interfered with, except in

 accordance with law. While the liberty of a citizen is of grave concern
 of the court, that alone must not be the concern. The court must see

 the other side of the coin as well, and justice must be delivered to
 both sides equally. 32. In the above circumstances, the argument by learned counsel for
 petitioner to the effect that it would suffice, if a condition is imposed

 while granting anticipatory bail that he shall subject himself to
 interrogation by police cannot be accepted." 36. Dealing further with the question of Interrogation Vs. Custodial

Interrogation, the Court held as under: 37. Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. confers extra ordinary powers upon a

High Court and a Court of Session to direct that in the event of his arrest, an

accused shall be enlarged on bail. This power is not to be exercised in routine,

but has to be exercised with great care and circumspection. The factors to be

kept in mind while adjudicating a plea for grant of anticipatory bail are ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 35 significantly different from those of a plea of regular bail. The provisions of Section 438 Cr.P.C. are in the nature of an exception to general rule that an

 . investigating agency must be given a free reign to arrive at the truth. A few of

the factors to be taken into consideration are the gravity or the seriousness of

the offences complained of, the proposed charges that are likely to be levelled,

the possibility of the applicant's presence not being secured at the trial, a

reasonable apprehension that the witnesses would tamper with the evidence

as also public interest and the interest of the State. However, no hard and fast

rule of law can be laid down for the exercise of such powers. It is for a Court

considering a plea of anticipatory bail to arrive at a conclusion for or against

the prayer made. A significant fact that must be taken into consideration when

the circumstances so warrant is that interrogation of an individual clothed with

a protective shield of interim protection is qualitatively less effective than a

custodial interrogation. 38. At this stage, it shall be apposite to refer to the observations of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in CBI vs. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187

wherein as regards the nature of custodial interrogation it was observed as

under: 39. Dealing with the custodial interrogation, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Muraleedharan vs. State of Kerala AIR 2001 SC 1699 held as

follows: r
 "7.....Custodial interrogation of such accused is indispensably

 necessary for the investigating agency to unearth all the links involved
 in the criminal conspiracies committed by the persons which ultimately
 led to the capital tragedy. We express our reprobation at the

 supercilious manner in which the Sessions Judge decided to think that
 no material could be collected by the investigating agency to connect
 the petitioner with the crime except the confessional statement of the

 co-accused. Such a wayward thinking emanating from a Sessions
 Judge deserves judicial condemnation. No court can afford to presume

 that the investigating agency would fail to trace out more materials to
 prove the accusation against an accused. We are at a loss to

 understand what would have prompted the Sessions Judge to
 conclude, at this early stage, that the investigating agency would not be
 able to collect any material to connect the appellant with the crime. The
 order of the Sessions Judge, blessing the appellant with a pre-arrest
 bail order, would have remained as a bugbear of how the discretion
 conferred on Sessions Judges under Section 438 of the Cr.P.C would
 have been misused. It is heartening that the high Court of Kerala did not
 allow such an order to remain in force for long." 40. A learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court in Del Agha vs.

Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (2001) 2 JCC (Delhi) 110, observed as

 . under: 41. In Bharat Chaudhary vs. State of Bihar AIR 2003 SC 4662, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the object of section 438 of the Code is to

prevent undue harassment of the accused person by pre-trial arrest and

detention. It was further held that the gravity of the offence is an important

factor to be taken into consideration while granting anticipatory bail so also the

need for custodial interrogation, but these are only factors that must be borne

in mind by the Courts concerned while entertaining for grant of anticipatory

bail. 42. In Parvinderjit Singh & Anr. vs. State (U.T. Chandigarh) and

another (2008) 4 SCC 2873, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: 43. In Promod Kumar Panda vs. Republic of Indian (2015) 60

Orissa Criminal Reports, 660, the Orissa High Court while dealing with the

anticipatory bail application of the petitioner in that case , held as follows. . 44. Adverting to the facts, it would be noticed that even though the

anticipatory bail of the petitioners was rejected by the learned Additional

Sessions Judge (1), Mandi, however, the same was granted by this Court at

the time when the records of the case were not available with it. Now, that the

records are available and have been perused. I am of the considered view that

custodial interrogation of the accused is necessary in the interest of

investigation. r 45. As observed in Anil Sharma's case (supra), success in such

interrogation eludes if the suspected person knows that he is protected and

insulated by a pre-arrest bail order during the time he is interrogated. Even

otherwise, the custodial interrogation of the petitioners in this case is

indispensably necessary for the investigating agency to unearth all the links of

common intention. As held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Muraleedharan's

case (supra), no Court can afford to presume that the investigating agency

would fail to trace out more materials when the gravity of the offences for

which the petitioners have been accused is taken into consideration as

admittedly some of the accusations against the petitioners are punishable with

even imprisonment for life. 46. In addition to the aforesaid, it would be noticed that one of the

leads on which the Investigating Agency is currently working is the involvement

or rather sale and purchase of huge quantity of narcotic substance which if

established and proved can entail serious consequences especially if it ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2018 23:02:26 :::HCHP 41 happens to be commercial quantity which is an offence punishable with

rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than 10 years but may

 . extend to 20 years and shall also be liable to pay fine which shall not be less

than Rs.1,00,000/- but may extend to Rs.2,00,000/-. 47. Considering the fact that the petitioners have already been

interrogated on earlier occasions and yet have not been arrested because of

the interim protection granted by this Court and weighing the right of liberty of

the petitioners on one hand and the interest of the investigation on the other

hand, I am of the considered view that the period for custodial interrogation

may be fixed. For this purpose, five days period would be sufficient for

custodial interrogation of the petitioners and are, therefore, direct: 48. Now, adverting to the regular bail applications filed on behalf of

the petitioners Parvesh Kundu and Deva, since the other petitioners Ankit and

Chanakya alias Chintu have already been directed to surrender before the

Investigating Officer immediately for the purpose of custodial interrogation for

the period of five days, these petitioners shall on completion of the aforesaid

period be released on bail alongwith petitioners Ankit and Chanakya alias

Chintu on the same terms and conditions as in the case of petitioners Ankit

and Chanakya alias Chintu. 49. Any observations made hereinabove, shall not be construed to

be any reflection on the merits of the case. 50. All the petitions are accordingly disposed of in the aforesaid

terms.