1. The Appellant has challenged the Judgment and Order

 dated 22/12/2016 passed by the Special Judge under MCOC

 Act, 1999 in MCOC Special Case No.6 of 2012. The Appellant

 was convicted for commission of offence punishable u/s 307 of
 Digitally
 signed by
 MANUSHREE
MANUSHREE V
V NESARIKAR
NESARIKAR Date: 2 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs.10,000/- and

 in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one year. The

 Appellant was acquitted from the charges of commission of

 offence punishable u/s 387, 323, 365, 504 (ii) and 506(ii) r/w

 34 of the Indian Penal Code and also from the charges u/s 3 r/w

 25 of the Arms Act and u/s 3(1)(ii) , 3(2) and 3(4) of

 Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, 1999. 2. The Appellant was granted set off u/s 428 of Cr.P.C. Besides the Appellant, there was one more accused Bajrang @

 Ganesh @ Takya Ganya Dhondiram Nichite, who was accused

 No.2 in this case. He was acquitted from all these charges. 3. Heard Ms. Saili Dhuru, learned counsel for the

 Appellant and Mr. P. H. Gaikwad, learned APP for the State. 4. To protect the identity of the prosecution witnesses for

 the reasons of their security and safety, they are described as

 their status of prosecution witnesses before the trial Court. 3 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 The prosecution case is about the incident dated

14/09/2011. The Appellant came at the gate of Vishwabharati

building with two others as passengers of a taxi. One of them

was the accused No.2 and the other was one Vijay Shivgan who

had lodged the FIR in this case. The prosecution case is that the

Appellant asked the driver to stop the taxi near P.W.5. He had

some talk with P.W.5 regarding payment of some amount. The

Appellant then fired a bullet at the abdomen of P.W.5. He also

fired in the air and then asked the taxi driver to drive the taxi

away. The injured lay on the ground. He was taken to Sion

Hospital by his brother P.W.4. The police were informed. They

came at the spot and conducted inspection. Vijay Shivgan who

was in the taxi was left at some place. He came to the spot and

gave details of the incident to the police. The offence was

registered vide C.R.No.294/2011 at Sion Police station. The

Appellant was arrested on 18/09/2011. A weapon and some

cartridges were recovered from his house at his instance. By a

separate disclosure statement, another weapon and other bullets
 4 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 were recovered from a place which he had taken on rent. In the

 meantime, the injured P.W.5 was shifted to Lilavati Hospital,

 where he underwent surgery. The bullet, which remained in his

 body, was removed. The firearm recovered at the instance of the

 Appellant and the bullet recovered from the body of P.W.5, were

 sent for ballistic examination. They found to match with each

 other. 5. During course of investigation it was found that this

 offence was committed as continuing unlawful activity by an

 organized crime syndicate and therefore approval u/s 23(1) of

 Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, 1999 (for short

 'MCOCA') was granted to apply provisions of MCOCA and to

 investigate under that Act. The investigation was carried out by

 the appointed police officer. After the investigation was carried

 out, sanction u/s 23(2) of MCOCA was obtained and the charge-

 sheet was filed. The cognizance was taken by the Special Court

 under MCOCA. 5 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt 6. During trial, the prosecution examined 18 witnesses. There were three more eyewitnesses besides the injured witness.

 The prosecution examined Doctors at both the hospitals. The

 Panchas were examined to prove recoveries. The police

 constable, who had carried weapons and articles to FSL, was

 examined. The police authorities granting approval u/s 23(1) and sanction 23 (2) of MCOCA were examined. Besides them,

 the Investigating Officers were examined. The defence of the

 Appellant was of total denial. In addition, he explained in his

 written statement recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. as under; 'He was working with a builder as a
 watchman. In 2005, the place where he was residing,
 was in demand and many builders were interested in
 developing that land. One of them started acquiring
 the pieces of land from the residents. There was
 difference between two communities of residents.
 Thus started enmity between two groups. The
 prosecution witnesses in this case had lodged false
 case against them in the past. Even the present case
 was false and he was falsely implicated. The injured
 himself had criminal antecedents. No bullet was
 6 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 recovered from his body. The recovery was false and
 therefore he should be acquitted.' 7. Learned Judge considered the evidence of the

 prosecution, Appellant's defence and the arguments advanced

 on behalf of them. He acquitted the Appellant from all the

 charges except that u/s 307 of the Indian Penal Code. According

 to learned Judge, the sanction under the Arms Act was given

 after the Court had taken cognizance and therefore he did not

 convict the Appellant under the Arms Act . As far as MCOCA is

 concerned, the learned trial Judge observed that though

 investigating agency produced past charge-sheets, no orders

 showing cognizance having been taken by the competent Court

 were produced. Therefore the main requirement for applying

 MCOCA was not satisfied and hence the Appellant was acquitted

 from those charges under MCOCA. He also observed that the

 other offences were not proved due to lack of evidence in that

 behalf. He mainly relied on the evidence of the injured witness

 and the eyewitness, as well as the recovery evidence and the FSL

 report to reach his conclusion of the guilt of the Appellant. 7 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt 8. In this case, the first informant Vijay Shivgan was not

 examined during the trial because he had expired before he

 could be examined. Therefore the FIR was brought on record

 through the police officer who had recorded it. The main

 evidence in this case is that of the injured. 9. P.W.5 is the injured himself. He has deposed as under: Because of fracture he was unable to walk and bend his legs. In the cross-examination he admitted that a case u/s

307 of IPC was pending against him and his brother in the

Sessions Court, Mumbai, since 2011. He was also detained.

Though in the examination in chief he had also deposed that he

had paid Rs.5,000/- to the Appellant as extortion amount, this
 9 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 fact was not reflected in his police statement and he could not

 explain this omission, though he had said so before the police.

 He admitted that in the past, some member of the other gang

 had fired at him. He has stated that the pistol at Article 3 was

 not shown to him by the police during investigation. The pistol

 produced in the Court was of iron and was having wooden

 handle. He denied the suggestion that he was deposing falsely. 10. P.W.4 was P.W.5's brother who was with him at the time

 of incident. He has described the incident in the same manner as

 is described by P.W.5. After P.W.5 fell down at the spot, he took

 him to Sion hospital and then informed his family members

 from the hospital. After some time the police came in the

 hospital. They asked him to show the spot. P.W.4 then showed

 the spot to the police. The police recorded his statement and

 also prepared Panchanama. He identified the Appellant through

 video conference. According to him, both the accused used to

 collect extortion amount from the residents of the locality. He

 identified the pistol- Article 3 , which was shown to him in the
 10 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 Court. According to him P.W.5 was admitted in Sion Hospital for

 about 4 to 5 days. In the cross-examination he deposed that he did not

 call the police. Police were present in the hospital. After reaching

 Sion hospital, immediately P.W.5 was operated. P.W.4's statement

 was recorded and even signature was obtained on it. The police

 enquired with the tea stall owner and others at the spot and

 took down their names and addresses. According to him, the

 police had recorded their statements. 11. P.W.6 was an eyewitness to the incident. According to

 him, the police recorded his statement on 03/12/2011. The

 police were calling him for recording his statement but because

 of fear of the Appellant he gave his statement only on

 03/12/2011. He further deposed that he had gone to school of

 his son to drop him. While returning he stopped near the tea

 stall. P.W.4 and P.W.5 were already present there. P.W.6 then had

 tea. In the meantime the taxi came there. He then described the
 11 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 incident as was described by P.W.4 and P.W.5. The injured P.W.5

 was taken to hospital by P.W.4. This witness had identified the

 Appellant through video conference. In the cross-examination he admitted that P.W.4 and

 P.W.5 were his relatives and he was having good relations with

 their families. According to him, there was no quarrel between

 the injured and the Appellant. He denied the suggestion that the

 Appellant was supervising site of one of the builders. He

 admitted that there was one case filed against him u/s 307 of

 the IPC in respect of redevelopment in the area. He denied the

 suggestion that the Appellant was helping the residents of the

 locality and therefore P.W.4, P.W.5 and P.W.6 implicated the

 Appellant falsely in this case. 12. P.W.8 was one more eyewitness. He was having a

 handcart for selling Vadapav near Cinemax theater. It was near

 the spot of the incident. He was present there. He has deposed

 that after the taxi came at the spot, the Appellant fired at P.W.5
 12 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 and came towards his handcart. He also fired in air. According to

 this witness, the bullet hit P.W.5 on his leg. The police made

 enquiries with this witness at Sion police station and recorded

 his statement. He identified Appellant who was present in the

 Court. He identified the accused No.2 as the person who was

 sitting on the back seat. Most of the cross-examination of this

 witness is in the form of suggestions, which he denied. 13. P.W.7 is not an eyewitness. But he knew the Appellant.

 He has deposed that the Appellant had demanded Rs.1 lakh as

 extortion money from P.W.7's brother. Because of that, his

 brother had filed a complaint against the Appellant at Sion

 police station. That case was still pending at the time of his

 deposition. The Appellant was arrested in that connection and

 after he was released, his mother came to this witness and told

 him that the Appellant would kill him. The Appellant's sister had

 also threatened this witness similarly. The Appellant himself had

 called him on 2 to 3 occasions and had demanded extortion

 money. He has further deposed that one Satish Naik was
 13 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 abducted by the Appellant for demand of Rs.5 lakhs as

 extortion. This witness's brother-in-law was Vijay Shivgan, who

 was the first informant in this case. He identified both the

 accused in the Court. In the cross-examination he admitted that he lodged

 his own FIR in the year 2011 against the Appellant for demand

 of extortion money. He could not assign the omission from his

 police statement that the Appellant had demanded extortion

 money from him though according to him he had stated so

 before the police. It was not reflected in his police statement. He

 admitted that he had adopted the Appellant's cousin's son. He

 denied that there was family dispute between himself and the

 Appellant and because of that he was deposing against him. 14. The other evidence is in the form of evidence of

 Panchas. P.W.2 was called at Sion police station on 21/09/2011.

 The Appellant in his presence expressed willingness to show the

 articles which he had kept in his house. The memorandum
 14 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 statement was recorded. It is produced on record at Ex.51. After

 that, the Appellant along with the Panchas and the police

 officers went to his house. He produced one pistol from one pot.

 He also produced two more articles, but P.W.2 could not give

 details of those articles. The Panchanama was written. It is

 produced on record at Ex.52. The pistol is marked as Article 3 before the Court. The Panchanama shows that besides the pistol

 which was made of steel and wooden handle, one 9 mm empty

 and one round were also seized. 15. P.W.3 was another Pancha. He has deposed that he was

 called by the Crime Branch Unit 4. The Appellant in his presence

 showed willingness to produce a firearm and cartridges. This

 witness could not explain what was written down. The

 Appellant took them on 3rd floor of a building. That room was

 taken on rental basis. The Appellant called the owner. He

 opened the lock. He took them to the mezzanine floor. There

 was one water tank. A bag was kept there. In that bag, one

 countrymade pistol, cartridges, some amount and one mobile
 15 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 phone wrapped with one handkerchief were kept. The pistol was

 shown to him and he identified it. It was marked as Article 4. This witness also identified the Appellant. His cross-examination

 did not add anything favourable to the defence. The

 Panchanama Ex.58 shows that the country-made pistol was

 having wooden handle and it was described as having break

 frame. The live cartridge was showing letters as 8MM KF. There

 were 9 red coloured 6 bore live cartridges of the company

 Foxwood Special. The Panchanama shows that this recovery was

 made from a rented room in a building in Nalasopara. 16. P.W.10 was present at the time of this recovery from

 that room in Nalasopara. He had arranged for taking that room

 on rent. He has corroborated the recovery from that room. He

 denied the suggestion that since he was involved in one case he

 was helping police by deposing falsely. 17. P.W.11 police constable Arun Deshmukh was attached

 to Sion police station. On 26/02/2011 P.I. Randive handed over
 16 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 four sealed packets along with one forwarding letter to be

 handed over to CFSL, Kalina. He then carried those four packets

 to CFSL, Kalina and obtained receipt. The forwarding letter is

 produced on record at Ex.76. It was in respect of earth from the

 spot, clothes of the injured and articles and weapons recovered

 from the Appellant's house. 18. There was another carrier of articles. He was P.W.1 P.C.

 Karadbhaje. On 21/01/2012 he carried two sealed packets to

 CFSL, Kalina. The forwarding letter regarding this request is

 produced by him on record at Ex.46. This letter mentions

 country made pistol having break frame with wooden handle,

 one live cartridge and 9 red coloured live cartridges recovered

 from rented room at Nalasopara. Those articles were sent on

 21/01/2012. 19. P.W.13 Dr. Sudatta Waghmare was attached to Sion

 hospital. P.W.5 was brought to Sion hospital on 14/09/2011. He

 was having a gun shot injury on the right side on his abdomen. 17 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 P.W.13 operated on P.W.5. Then relatives of P.W.5 removed him

 from Sion hospital against medical advice. The injury was fresh

 and grievous in nature. The injury was sufficient to cause death.

 Accordingly the medical case papers were prepared. He was

 discharged on 15/09/2011 from their hospital. The medical

 papers were produced on record at Ex.81. The history was given

 by the patient that he was shot by a known person. In the cross-examination he has deposed that, in a gun

 shot injury, there is possibility of entry and exit wound. There

 was no exit wound in the case of P.W.5. He admitted that he did

 not find bullet in the body of P.W.5. However in further answer

 in the cross-examination he deposed that he had not obtained

 X-ray of P.W.5. 20. P.W.12 Dr. Dattaprasanna Kulkarni was a surgeon

 attached to Lilawati Hospital. He has deposed that P.W.5 was

 brought to that hospital on 15/09/2011 in the afternoon. The

 patient gave history of gun shot on the previous day. There was
 18 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

one entry wound on the right lower side of abdomen. There was

a mid-line scar of recent surgery. P.W.12 also found that there

was a palpable bullet in the back. There was no exit wound. The

injury was grievous in nature. The injury was sufficient to cause

death. He performed surgery and removed bullet from P.W.5's

body. The bullet was handed over to police officers. It was kept

in a transparent container. P.W.5 was discharged after 9 days

from 15/09/2011. P.W.5 had injury on small intestine which

Doctor at Sion Hospital had repaired. The injury was caused by

a bullet. He identified the container which was used to keep that

bullet. In the cross-examination he admitted that when he was

admitted to Lilawati Hospital, he was conscious and was in a

position to speak. In the history, the name of the assailant was

not mentioned. According him even in Sion hospital the bullet

could have been removed from P.W.5's body. There was pus

formation around the bullet in the body. 19 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt 21. P.W.9 HC Babulal Sonawane was examined for

 implementation of the order passed by Deputy Commissioner of

 Police u/s 37 of Bombay Police Act prohibiting possession of

 deadly weapons. That order was in force from 23/08/2011 to

 21/09/2011. 22. P.W.14 Vinit Agarwal, Additional Commissioner of

 Police had granted approval u/s 23(1) of MCOCA to apply

 provisions of the said Act. 23. P.W.17 retired DGP Arup Patnaik had accorded sanction

 u/s 23(2) of MCOCA. However his evidence has lost its

 significance because the Appellant is acquitted from the charges

 under the provisions of MCOCA and there is no challenge to that

 acquittal by the State of Maharashtra. 24. P.W.15 PI Sanjay Nikam was part of the investigation.

 On 30/09/2011 the Appellant expressed his willingness to show

 the rented premises at Nalasopara, where he had concealed the
 20 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 country made pistol and cartridges. This witness has deposed

 about the recovery of the country-made pistol, one cartridge of 8

 mm and nine 6 bore cartridges. This witness had investigated

 C.R.No.74/11 of Crime Branch and during that investigation

 recovery pertaining to this offence was effected. 25. P.W.16 PI Vinod Randive was attached to Sion police

 station. At about 08.25 a.m. on 14/09/2011 they received a

 telephone call from an unknown person about the firing at Sion

 Koliwada. He rushed to the spot. He saw some blood stains at

 the spot. He was told that injured was shifted to Sion Hospital.

 The brother of the injured narrated him the incident. Then

 P.W.16 went to Sion hospital to make enquiries. He then

 returned to the spot with the brother of the injured. In the

 meantime the informant Vijay Shivgan had arrived at the spot.

 He also narrated about the incident. He was in the same taxi.

 The Appellant had made him sit in the taxi under threats. They

 then went to the spot where the incident took place. He then

 described the incident of firing on the injured. Then the
 21 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 Appellant told taxi driver to take him away from the spot. The

 taxi was taken towards Sion Depot. There the informant was

 asked to get down. Then he went to the spot and met the police

 officers and gave his FIR. It is taken on record at Ex.91. 26. This witness then seized clothes of the injured. He

 arrested the Appellant on 18/09/2011. On 21/09/2011 recovery

 of pistol and other article was effected from the house of the

 Appellant at his instance. On 24/09/2011 he went to Lilawati

 hospital and recorded the statement of the injured. According to

 him the injured was not in a position to speak till 24/09/2011

 and therefore his statement was not recorded earlier. Muddemal

 Articles were sent by him to FSL on 26/09/2011 under the letter

 Ex.76. After that, MCOCA provisions were applied. The

 investigation was handed over to ACP Rupvate. 27. P.W.18 ACP Rupvate had conducted the investigation

 after application of MCOCA provisions. He conducted the

 investigation from 21/09/2011 onwards. He recorded the
 22 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 statement of witnesses, carried out the investigation and filed

 the charge-sheet. He collected other charge-sheets against the

 Appellant. He produced those charge-sheets on record at Ex.105

 to 117. He admitted in the cross-examination that he did not

 produce any evidence showing that accused Nos.1 and 2 were in

 contact with each other prior to and after the incident. 28. The C.A. reports are produced on record at Ex.94, 95

 and 96. The case number of FSL is mentioned as BL-706/11, BL-

 699/11 and BL-51/12. The report is dated 08/02/2012. On

 27/09/2011 one single barrel breech loading country-made

 handgun, one intact KF 8 MM rifle cartridge, one KF 8 MM rifle

 empty with indentation on the cap, along with the clothes and

 earth were received by FSL. The analysis shows that the

 handgun was in working order and the empty was fired from the

 same handgun. The cartridge also could be used for the same

 handgun. 29. On 21/01/2012 following articles were received; 23 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 One single barrel breech loading country-made

 handgun, nine refilled 12 bore shotgun cartridges and one intact

 KF 8 MM rifle cartridge. The 8 mm rifle cartridge was

 successfully test fired by the country-made handgun. The FSL

 also received the bullet recovered from the body of the injured.

 It was received on 29/09/2011 under MLC BL-706/11. The

 analysis showed that it was a fired 8 MM rifle bullet having

 brushing marks. 30. Ex.94 is an important FSL report dated 08/02/2012,

 which shows that the bullet recovered from the body of the

 injured which was sent under MLC No.BL-706/11 was fired from

 the handgun Ex.1 of MLC No.BL-699/11 i.e. from the country-

 made handgun recovered from the house of the Appellant. 31. Learned counsel for the Appellant submitted that he is

 falsely implicated. The witnesses have admitted that there was

 dispute between different builders. The Appellant belonged to

 one group and the witness belonged to the other and therefore
 24 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

there was enmity. The FIR is a result of enmity and the Appellant

is falsely implicated. He has not fired at the injured P.W.5. The

evidence also shows that P.W.5 and this witness had criminal

antecedents and they had many other enemies. She submitted

that possibility cannot be ruled out that some other person had

committed this offence. All the witnesses are interested

witnesses and no independent witness is examined except

perhaps P.W.8. But P.W.8 has not given proper answers.

According to him, the bullet was fired on the leg of the injured,

which is not the fact and therefore that witness could not be the

real eyewitness in this case. There is delay in recording

statement of the P.W.5. The Medical Officer has admitted that

the injured was in a position to speak and yet his statement was

recorded belatedly after about 10 days. Similarly, P.W.6 has also

admitted that his statement was recorded in the month of

December, though he has tried to explain that he was under fear.

Learned counsel therefore submitted that this delay shows that

there was a concoction of false story to implicate the Appellant.

The Panchas for the recovery were not aware of what was
 25 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 written in the Panchanama. They had merely signed the

 Panchanama. Therefore their evidence should be excluded from

 consideration. P.W.4 was at the spot and was at the hospital also.

 The police made enquiries with him in the first point of time at

 the spot. His statement should have been treated as the FIR and

 not the statement which was given by Vijay Shivgan. She

 submitted that the role of Vijay Shivgan is also doubtful because

 he was in the same taxi and he had no reason to come back to

 the spot. She submitted that the recovery of bullet is also

 doubtful because it is not possible to believe that the Doctor in

 the Sion hospital could not find the bullet in the body, but the

 surgeon in Lilavati Hospital could recover it when P.W.5 was

 admitted to Lilavati hospital. She submitted that sufficient doubt

 is created about the prosecution case and therefore the

 Appellant deserves to be acquitted. 32. Learned APP on the other hand submitted that the

 evidence of the witnesses is consistent and there is no reason to

 disbelieve them. The injured would not leave the actual assailant
 26 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 and instead make allegations against the Appellant. This would

 be unnatural. He submitted that the offence is serious and the

 Appellant has long list of antecedents against him. 33. I have considered these submissions in the light of the

 evidence and defence discussed above. The most important

 evidence in this case is that of the injured himself. He and his

 brother P.W.4 have categorically given name of the present

 Appellant as the assailant. They were knowing him and there

 was previous enmity and there was no scope to disbelieve that it

 could a case of mistaken identity, or that it was a case of a false

 implication. The incident had taken place in broad day light. The

 Appellant had demanded extortion amount and when P.W.5

 refused, he fired his gun P.W.5. It was witnessed by his brother

 and other witnesses. The evidence of P.W.5's brother i.e. P.W.4 is

 sufficiently believable. He had taken the P.W.5 to Sion hospital

 immediately and had narrated the incident to the police. There

 is no substance in the submission that his statement should have

 been treated as the FIR, because there is no variance in the
 27 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

version of P.W.4 and the FIR lodged by Vijay Shivgan. In any

case, the consistent prosecution case is that the Appellant had

fired at P.W.5. Besides P.W.4 and P.W.5; P.W.6 and P.W.8 have also

supported the prosecution case. Though it is argued that P.W.6's

statement was recorded after three months, he himself has

explained that he was under fear and therefore he was reluctant

to give his statement. In the case of this nature this conduct

cannot be said to be unnatural. At the time of deposition before

the Court he has supported the prosecution case. As far as P.W.8

is concerned, though he has stated that the bullet was fired at

the leg of the victim, this discrepancy need not go to the root of

the matter, because according to P.W.5 himself because of the

bullet injury he fell down and due to that he had suffered

fracture to his leg. When he was carried to the hospital, there

was injury to his leg as well. All these witnesses are the natural

witnesses and in particular there cannot be any doubt about the

presence of P.W.4 at the spot as he has taken P.W.5 to the

hospital. Apart from that, there is other clinching evidence

against the Appellant in the form of recovery of weapons. In this
 28 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

case two fire arms were recovered; one from his own house and

the other was from his rented room in Nalasopara. All the

articles were sent for FSL examination and the C.A. report shows

that the bullet recovered from the body of the injured P.W.5

matched the characteristics showing that it was fired from fire

arm recovered at the instance of the present Appellant from his

house. Therefore there is no force in the submission that the

recovery of the weapon is false or recovery of the bullet from the

body of P.W.5 is false. There is no reason for P.W.12, who is a

surgeon attached to Lilavati Hospital, to create false evidence.

Though, the bullet was not seen by the Doctor at Sion hospital,

that does not mean that the bullet was not inside the body. The

patient was in Sion hospital for a short duration, during which

time, the primary focus was to save his life and the surgery was

performed to repair the small intestine. After that he was shifted

to Lilavati Hospital. Doctor at Sion hospital i.e. P.W.13 had

admitted that no 'X' ray was taken. Therefore before proper

investigation the patient was shifted to another hospital and

therefore it cannot be said that since bullet was not recovered in
 29 / 29 203-APEAL-636-17.odt

 Sion hospital, there was no bullet inside body of the P.W.5. The

 evidence of P.W.12 is clear enough to show that the bullet was

 actually recovered from the body of the injured P.W.5. The same

 bullet matched with the firearm recovered at the instance of the

 Appellant. 34. All these circumstances and direct evidence show that

 the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable time. In

 the backdrop of this strong evidence against the Appellant, his

 weak explanation cannot destroy the prosecution evidence. In

 fact, his explanation also shows reason for their enmity and

 motive for him to commit this offence. Learned trial Judge has

 considered this evidence in its proper perspectives. Considering

 the manner of commission of offence, there is no scope to

 reduce the sentence. Therefore there is no reason to take a

 different view than that taken by the trial judge. I do not find

 any merit in the Appeal. The Appeal is dismissed. (SARANG V. KOTWAL, J.)