1. In this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution, the petitioner has challenged the interlocutory orders passed by the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal (CEGAT), Mumbai requiring the petitioner to deposit a sum of Rs. 50 lacs as a pre-deposit for hearing the petitioner's appeal against the order dated 7-6-1999 passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication), Mumbai imposing penalty of Rs. 4 crores under Section 112 of the Customs Act, 1962. 2. The facts leading to this petition, briefly stated, are as under :- 2.3 After hearing the learned Advocate appearing for the four firms and also for the petitioner, the Collector of Customs (Adjudication), Mumbai passed the order dated 7-6-1999 in the following terms :- 2.4 Aggrieved by the aforesaid order, the four firms filed separate appeals bearing Nos. C/1118 to C/1121 at Mumbai and the petitioner filed Appeal No. C/975 at Mumbai. The petitioner as well as the four firms also filed stay applications in the aforesaid appeals. By order dated 8-2-2000. CEGAT waived the condition of pre-deposit of the duty confirmed against the four firms and granted conditional stay in respect of the penalty of Rs. 4 crores imposed on the petitioner herein by requiring the petitioner to make pre-deposit of Rs. 50 lakhs. 2.5 The petitioner thereafter preferred a Modification application and pointed out that the authorities under the Foreign Trade Regulation Act had also initiated proceedings for cancellation of Advance Licences in question and although the Original Authority had passed the order for cancelling all the advance licenses in question, subsequently, the Additional Director General, Foreign Trade has passed orders in February/April, 2000. The Appellate Authority set aside the order of the lower authority and reinstated the licences and therefore, the entire basis of imposing levy on the firms as well as the imposition of penalty on the petitioner had fallen to the ground and therefore, the previous order requiring the petitioner to deposit Rs. 50 lacs for the purpose of hearing the petitioner's appeal was required to be revoked or modified. The petitioner also pleaded financial hardship. The Tribunal dismissed the said application by order dated 9-3-2001 [2001 (138) E.L.T. 692 (Tri. - bom.)]. 2.6 The petitioner thereafter preferred second modification application. The said application also came to be dismissed by the Tribunal by its order dated 23-4-2002. 2.7 The petitioner has thereupon filed the present petition for challenging the aforesaid orders of CEGAT by which the petitioner is required to deposit an amount of Rs. 50 lacs as pre-deposit for hearing of the petitioner's appeal. 3. Mr. Paresh Dave, ld. Advocate for the petitioner has vehemently contended as under :- In case, the declared exports were in fact made, then the licence holder ought to be in the position to come out with appropriate evidence to prove the fact of export. In the absence of such an evidence, it must be concluded that, the said declared export has not taken place and only documents to claim such exports were concocted. In the face of the conclusive evidence as mentioned above no other evidence is required to establish wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts..... 59. In this case, the allegations made against Shri Suresh Agarwal (i.e. present petition) and the concerned firms are based on the investigation report and the documents as listed in the Show Cause notice, which have been furnished to him. The learned Advocate has not made any effort to rebut the main allegation that, despite no exports having been made, fictitious evidence of exports has been created on paper, labelling such documents to be original E.P. Copies of Shipping Bills and presenting them before the Jt. D.G.F.T. to obtain the benefits of the duty free import of imports mentioned against the respective licences. The learned Advocate is not bringing on record a single document which shows the extent of export that has been made against the said Shipping Bills." 6. The Commissioner of Customs also dealt with the legal contention raised by the four firms that they were original licence holders but they were not importers. That argument has been dealt with in Paras 61, 62 and 65 of the order-in-original in the following terms :- 7. When the original licence holders i.e. the four firms and the petitioner herein went in appeal before CEGAT, CEGAT found an arguable case in favour of the four firms in so far as the definition of "importer" was concerned and therefore, CEGAT granted unconditional stay in favour of those four firms. We are not in a position to agree with CEGAT as regards the said finding that the four firms cannot be said to be the importer. In our view, the reasoning given by the Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication) prima facie appears to be correct. However, we are not required to deal with this issue in greater depth as the Revenue has so far not filed petitions against the orders of CEGAT in the stay applications of those four firms. 8. As regards the contention that when CEGAT has waived duty in case of the four firms, waiver of penalty should have followed as a matter of course, prima facie the argument, does not deserve to be prima facie accepted. The petitioner before us is a person who was looking after the affairs of all the four firms. The Commissioner has discussed in detail the evidence of the parties involved in the fraud and has after referring to the evidence of the Shipping Agency and their employees which supported the department's case about the forgery of the documents and actual export being much less than the export shown on paper has held that it was the petitioner who had played the role for this purpose. 9. As regards the petitioner's contention that the orders the Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication) were based on the cancellation of advance licences in question and in view of the orders of the Additional Director General of Foreign Trade, the licences are restored and therefore, the basis of imposition of duty and penalty have fallen to the ground, we are not in a position to accept the said contention either. 10. As per the investigation made by the Customs Authorities, the ex-ports as claimed to have been made for the purpose of obtaining Advance Licences were not actually made. There were forgeries and concoction of documents and fictitious evidence of exports was created on paper. Infact, the Commissioner of Customs has recorded in Paras 58 and 59 of his order that the learned Advocate appearing for the four firms and the petitioner herein was not in a position to rebut the main allegation that despite no exports having been made fictitious evidence of exports was created on paper. As against such categorical finding, all that the Additional Director General of Foreign Trade has stated in his appellate orders passed in February/April, 2000 is that the Customs Authorities had not proved the case against the four firms beyond reasonable doubt. However, without going into the correctness or otherwise of the finding given by the Additional Director General, it is important to note that all that the Additional Director General has done is to pass the following operative order :- 11. The underlined words would show the fact which had weighed with the Additional Director General of Foreign Trade - that is - the four firms, whose affairs are managed by the petitioner, had transferred the Advance Licences to other parties and those transferees had effected bona fide imports. The anxiety of the Additional Director General was only to protect those bona fide transferees, otherwise the Additional Director General would not have held that the Advance Licences were inoperative for future imports until these cases are finally cleared. Hence, we are not in a position to agree with the learned Counsel for the petitioner that in view of the orders passed by the Additional Director General of Foreign Trade, the entire case against the four firms as well as the petitioner has fallen to the ground. 12. As regards reliance placed by the ld. Counsel for the petitioner on the decision of CEGAT, Mumbai in the case of Jupiter Exports which is annexed at Annexure 1 to the petition, apart from the fact that the decision of the Tribunal does not bind us, we are of the view that the said decision does not lay down the correct law. 13. In that case, Jupiter Exports had applied for and obtained 12 Advance Licences and DEEC books. These documents conferred upon it the right to import polyester filament yarn, dyes and bronze powder, subject to these being utilised in the manufacture of polyester filament, the specified quantity of which were to be exported, or as replenishment used to make the exported product. Jupiter Exports manipulated documents such as test reports and invoices to show that it had exported fabrics of weight and length considerably greater than what actually was exported. Jupiter Exports having transferred its licence and the transferees having made imports on the strength of such Advance Licences, the transferee licence holders claimed and were granted benefit of exemption in terms of Customs Notification No. 204 of 1992. Investigation made by the Department subsequent to the import revealed the fact that much of what had been claimed to be exported was not at all exported. Pursuant to such investigation, notices were issued to Jupiter Export demanding duty on the goods from the purchaser of the transferred licence as well as from Jupiter Exports and penalties were imposed. The Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication) confirmed the orders passed against Jupiter Exports and discharged the notice issued to the actual importer holding them to be bona fide transferees. Jupiter Exports, therefore, went in appeal before CEGAT. The CEGAT dealt with the argument of the Department that demand of duty from Jupiter Exports was justified since it was Jupiter Export which reaped the benefit of the sale of import licence obtained by fraudulent means and therefore, Jupiter Exports must bear the consequences after the malpractice have been detected. The Tribunal dealt with the said contention in the following words :- 14. The reasoning adopted by CEGAT in Jupiter Exports case (supra) does not commend to us. Right now, we are not required to decide the petitioners appeal against the order of the Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication) and therefore, we do not want to go into the merits any further since the appeals are pending before CEGAT, but the reasoning that appealed to the Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication) appears to us to be prima facie correct. In any case, the considerations which appeared to the Tribunal irrelevant are certainly relevant while exercising the prerogative discretionary writ jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. 15. As per the settled legal position the writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is prerogative and the Writ Court is not supposed to lend its assistance to a party who has not come with clean hands. Very recently, in the case of Roshan Deen v. Preetilal, 2002 (1) Supreme Court Cases 100, the Honourable Supreme Court has held that the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 or 227 is to be exercised only for advancing justice and not for thwarting it. The Apex Court has laid down in the said decision that even if the order impugned before the Court in a writ petition suffers from any legal infirmity, the Court is not to interfere with such order if it advances justice. In the case of A.M. Alison v. B.L. Sen , AIR 1957 SC 226 also, the Honourable Supreme Court has held that the writ jurisdiction is not to be exercised merely because the order is shown to be illegal, if there is not failure of justice. 16. In view of the finding of fact given by the Commissioner of Customs (Appeals) that Advance licences were fraudulently obtained by the four firms through the petitioner by showing exports which were not actually made, we are of the view that the pre-deposit of Rs. 50 lacs ordered by the Tribunal as against the penalty of Rs. 4 crores imposed by the Commissioner of Customs on the petitioner does not call for any interference at the instance of the petitioner who is found to be instrumental in the forgery/concoction of documents as found by the Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication). 17. We, therefore, do not find any merit in any of the contentions raised before us. The petition is, therefore, summarily dismissed.