1 These two applications can be conveniently disposed of 

 
 by a common order, as the applicants are the accused in one and the 

 same case. i.e. Sessions Case No.655 of 2011 pending before the 

 
 Additional Sessions Judge, at Sewree, Mumbai. 2 The applicant Jyoti Chorge - (in Bail Application 

 
 No.1020 of 2012) is the Accused No.4, while the applicant Sushma 
 
 (in Bail Application No.1066 of 2012) is the Accused No.2 in the 
 
 said case. The case is in respect of offences punishable under sections 387 IPC, 419 IPC , 465 IPC , 467 IPC , 468 IPC , 471 IPC read 
 

 with section 120B of the IPC, and also in respect of offences 
 

 punishable under section 10 , 13 , 17 , 18 , 18A , 18B , 20 , 21 , 38 , 39 , 40(2) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967, as amended 

 upto 2008 (hereinafter referred to as ' UAP Act ' for the sake of 

 brevity). There are totally seven accused who have been arrested in 

 the said case and eight more are said to be absconding and wanted. 3 The applicants are alleged to be the members of the 

 Communist Party of India (Maoist) which is a Terrorist Organization. 3/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 The Central Government has declared it to be so by a notification 

 issued on 22 June 2009 whereby the said Organization was enlisted 

 
 in the schedule appended to the said Act. The prosecution case is that on 25 April 2011, on 

 
 certain information, the Anti Terrorism Squad, which is the 

 Investigating Agency in the present case, arrested one Angela 

 
 Sontakke @ Angela Teltumbde (Accused No.1 in this case). Certain 
 
 incriminating articles which are said to be provocative publicity 

 material etc. were found with her. When she was interrogated, she 
 
 led the police to her house i.e. a room where she was residing with 

 the Accused No.2 Sushma (Applicant in BA No.1066/12). The 
 

 Accused No.2 was present in the said room. The said room was 
 

 searched and some laptops, mobile handsets, some audio and video 

 cassettes which are said to be the publicity material of the 

 Organization i.e. Communist Party of India (Maoists) were found in 

 the said room. The accused no.2 Sushma was also apprehended. On the interrogation of the accused no.1, and the 

 applicant Sushma, some further information was received by the 

 Investigating Agency. On that basis, a trap was laid at a PMT bus ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 4/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 stop; and on 27 April 2011, the Accused No.4 Jyoti (Applicant in 

 BA 1020/12), and another accused - Accused No.3 Nandini 

 
 Panjabrao Bhagat @ Jeny were apprehended. The applicant Jyoti 

 
 was found in possession of blue colour travel bag containing mobile 

 handset with sim card, a battery, some literature of the Communist 

 
 Party of India (Maoist) Organization. The said co-accused Nandini 

 Bhagat was found in possession of cash of Rs.1,90,000/-, some CDs, 

 
 a fake PAN card and some other articles. After the arrest of the 
 
 applicant Jyoti, her residential room at Bhosari was searched. One 

 Anuradha Sonule - Accused no.5 - was found present in the said 
 
 house. She was ill and was therefore removed to the hospital for 

 medical treatment. During the search of the room where the 
 

 applicant Jyoti was residing, some publicity material/literature of 
 

 the banned Organization - Communist Party of India (Maoist), some 

 pocket diaries containing telephone numbers and other details, 

 mobile sim cards etc. were found. 4 The substance of the allegation against the applicants is 

 that they are members of a Terrorist Organization i.e. Communist 

 Party of India (Maoist). It is also alleged that the applicants were 

 fully aware of the activities of the said Terrorist Organization, and ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 5/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 had knowingly associated with persons indulging into such 

 activities. 5 I have heard Mr.Sudeep Pasbola and Ms.Sharmila 

 Kaushik, the learned Advocates for the applicant in BA no.1066 of 

 
 2012. I have heard Mr.Mihir Desai, learned Advocate for the 

 applicant in BA No.1020 of 2012. I have heard Ms.Rohini Salian, 

 
 Special Public Prosecutor for the State, at length. 6 With the assistance of the learned counsel, and the 
 
 learned Special Public Prosecutor, I have gone through the relevant 

 parts of the charge-sheet. 7 It is submitted on behalf of the applicants that there is 
 

 no prima facie case against them. It is submitted that the applicants 

 are not shown to be, - or even alleged to be - involved in any acts of 

 violence, or any terrorist acts. It is submitted that neither the 

 applicant Jyoti nor the applicant Sushma was found in possession of 

 any incriminating articles. It is contended that assuming that the 

 applicants were found in possession of certain books, articles and 

 literature, that by itself, would not make them members of the 

 Communist Party of India (Maoists) - a Terrorist Organization. devoted considerable part of her arguments on highlighting the 

 
 dangerous activities of the Organization, Communist Party of India 

 (Maoist). She submitted that the entire ideology and philosophy of 

 
 the said Organization was dangerous, and was 'destroying the 

 nation'. She submitted that the members of the said Organization 

 
 were resorting to violence and indulging into acts threatening the 
 
 unity, integrity and sovereignty of India. She submitted that the 

 police and Government Officials were being attacked and killed by 
 
 members of the said Organization which advocated and propagated 

 violence for achieving its objects. Even in the affidavit-in-reply filed 
 

 by the Investigating Officer, there is emphasis mainly on the 
 

 activities of the Organization Communist Party of India (Maoist), 

 and that it aims to 'overthrow the Government of India'. It is 

 contended that the Maoists or Naxalites resort to violence 

 committing various serious offences like extortion, abduction, 

 murders, and demolish government institutions in the areas 

 occupied by them. and what is the philosophy of the said Organization, need not be 

 
 discussed in details, as, that it has been declared as a 'Terrorist 

 Organization', is not in dispute. 10 The real question what requires determination is, 

 
 whether there is a prima facie case of the alleged offences against 
 
 the applicants, or any of them. 11 The UAP Act was substantially amended by Act 35 of 

 2008. Several drastic provisions were introduced by the said 
 

 amendment. The learned Special Public Prosecutor referred to 
 

 various provisions in the UAP Act and emphasized the definitions of 

 'unlawful activity', 'unlawful association', and 'terrorist act', as given 

 in the said Act. She also referred to the provisions of Section 43D of 

 the UAP Act which curtails the discretion available to the Courts in 

 the matter of grant of bail, to a large extent. 12 Indeed, the offences punishable under section 17 , 18 , 18A , 18B , 20 , 21 , 38 , 39 , 40(2) of the UAP Act are of a serious ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 8/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 nature, and come within the prohibition imposed by sub-section (5) 

 of section 43D of the UAP Act. 13 Undoubtedly, from the material collected during 

 
 investigation, it does appear, prima facie, that the applicants were in 

 contact, or had some association with some members or admirers of 

 
 the Communist Party of India (Maoists). The applicant Jyoti, it 
 
 appears, was found in possession of some literature of the 

 Communist Party of India (Maoists), including publicity and 
 
 propaganda material. She was in the company of the co-accused 

 Jenny @ Mayuri Bhagat when she was apprehended by the police, 
 

 and the said Mayuri @ Jenny was also found in possession of 
 

 certain articles, allegedly incriminating, including some cash. 14 As regards applicant Sushma, she was staying in the 

 same room where the accused no.1 Angela was staying and as 

 aforesaid, in the said room, a number of articles which are alleged 

 to be the publicity materials or literature of the Communist Party of 

 India (Maoists), were found. Further, it appears that she had ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 9/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 secured employment in a different name - Shraddha Omprakash 

 
 Gurav, and had also opened bank account in the said assumed 

 
 name, with the object of hiding her identity. 15 However, though a number of charges and some 

 
 general allegations have been levelled against all the accused, so far 
 
 as the applicants are concerned, there is no allegation that they 

 have, or any of them has, committed a terrorist act. In fact, such 
 
 an allegation has not been leveled even against the other accused. The accusation of having organized a terrorist camp, or having 
 

 recruited any person for terrorist acts, has also not been levelled 
 

 against any of the present applicants. In any case, there is no 

 material to support such an allegation against the applicants. There 

 is also no material to indicate that the applicants, or any of them, 

 had conspired with any of the other accused to commit a terrorist 

 act, or to organize a terrorist camp, or to recruit any person for 

 terrorist act, etc. All said and done, the allegation against the 

 applicants is of their being members of the terrorist organization 

 viz. Communist Party of India (Maoist). Such inference against them ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 10/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 is expected to be drawn from the aforesaid material against them. 16 Section 20 of the UAP Act reads as under:- 17 Indeed, the section is widely worded. It lays down that 

 a mere membership of a terrorist gang or organization which is 
 

 involved in terrorist act would invite punishment: and that too, a 
 

 drastic punishment inasmuch as the imprisonment that can be 

 awarded for being a member of such a gang or organization, can be 

 for life. Grant of bail to a person arrested on such a charge would 

 be difficult in view of the provisions of sub-section (5) of section 

 43D , as the discretion available to the Courts is curtailed thereby. 18 Because of these drastic provisions, the concept of 

 'membership' that has been contemplated in section 20 and ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 11/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 incidentally, in section 38 needs to be carefully considered, and 

 properly interpreted in the light of Article 19 of the Constitution of 

 
 India. 19 Article 19 of the Constitution, inter alia, protects the 

 
 following rights of citizens: 20 Undoubtedly, Article 19(2) empowers the Parliament to 

 impose, by law, reasonable restrictions on these rights in the interests 
 

 of sovereignty and integrity of India. Section 20 has been enacted as 
 

 and by way of reasonable restriction on the aforesaid freedoms and 

 rights, guaranteed by the Constitution. Inasmuch as the said clause 

 imposes restrictions on the aforesaid freedoms and rights, the 

 interpretation thereof has to be in consonance with the 

 constitutional values and principles, and the concept of membership 

 contemplated by the said section, is required to be interpreted in 

 the light of the aforesaid freedoms and rights. membership of a terrorist gang or organization as contemplated by section 20 , cannot be a passive membership. It has to be treated as 

 
 an active membership which results in participation of the acts of 

 the terrorist gang or organization which are performed for carrying 

 
 out the aims and objects of such gang or organization by means of 

 violence or other unlawful means. In her oral arguments, 

 
 Ms.Rohini Salian, the learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted 
 
 that there was a great danger to the whole nation from the said 

 Organization, and that the unity and integrity of the nation was 
 
 already in danger because of their activities. She submitted that section 20 of the UAP Act has been deliberately worded very widely 
 

 by keeping these aspects in mind. She submitted that mere 
 

 association with such type of people, and sharing their ideology 

 would make a person a member of their organization. 22 It, therefore, becomes necessary to examine the legal 

 position in that regard, by referring to the case-law. occasion to deal with the aspect of membership of a 

 banned/terrorist organization. In that case, the appellant before 

 
 the Supreme Court was a member of ULFA and had been convicted 

 
 of an offence punishable under section 3(5) of the Terrorist and 

 Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act 1987 (hereinafter referred to 

 
 as ' TADA Act ' for the sake of brevity). The provisions of the said 

 section are in pari materia with the provisions of section 20 of the 

 
 UAP Act (except for a variation that a minimum sentence is 
 
 prescribed for the offence under section 3(5) of TADA, which is 

 immaterial for our purpose). Their Lordships noted that section 
 
 3(5) of TADA made mere membership of a banned organization 

 criminal. Their Lordships observed that even assuming that the 
 

 appellant was a member of ULFA, it had not been proved that he 
 

 was an active member, and not a mere passive member. It was 

 observed that 

 "Mere membership of a banned organization will not

 incriminate a person unless he resorts to violence or

 incites people to violence or does an act intended to

 create disorder or disturbance of public peace by ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 14/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 resort to violence (see also the Constitution Bench

 judgment of this Court in Kedar Nath Singh Vs.

 
 State of Bihar AIR para 26) (Emphasis supplied)

 
 (Paragraph No.9 of the reported judgment)

 
 24 Their Lordships went on to quote the following 

 observations of the US Supreme Court in Brandenburg Vs. Ohio, 

 
 395 US 444(1969), which go a step further. (Paragraph No.10 of the reported judgment) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 15/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 25 Their Lordships of the Supreme Court of India 

 expressed agreement with the aforesaid views, and opined that the 

 
 same would apply to India also, as the fundamental rights in Indian 

 
 Constitution are similar to the bill of rights in the US Constitution. Their Lordships ultimately concluded as follows:- (Emphasis supplied)

 (paragraph 12 of the reported judgment)

 26 Even prior to the aforesaid Judgment, the Supreme Court of 

 India had an occasion to consider a similar question i.e. in State of 

 Kerala Vs.Raneef, (2011)1 SCC 784. In that case,the Kerala High 

 Court had granted bail to one Dr.Raneef - respondent before the 

 Supreme Court, who was, inter alia, accused of having committed 

 offences punishable under various provisions of IPC , the Explosive ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 16/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12 Substances Act and the UAP Act . The allegation was that the said 

 respondent was a member of the Popular Front of India (P.F.I), 

 
 alleged to be a terrorist organization. Their Lordships noted that 

 
 there was till then, no evidence to prove the P.F.I to be a terrorist 

 organization, but observed that even assuming it to be so, whether 

 
 all members of the said organization can be automatically held to 

 be guilty, would need consideration. Their Lordships referred to the 

 
 observations made by the US Supreme Court in Scales vs. United 
 
 States, 367 U.S. 203, distinguishing 'active knowing membership 

 and 'passive, merely nominal membership' in a subversive 
 
 organization. The following observations of the US Supreme Court 

 were quoted with approval:- 27 Again, the following observations of US Supreme Court 

 in Elfbrandt Vs. Russell, 384 US 17 19 (1966) were also quoted: 28 A reference may also be made to another judgment of 

 the Supreme Court of India in Indra Das Vs. State of Assam (2011) 3 SCC 380. In that case, the appellant before the Supreme 

 Court had been convicted of an offence punishable under section 

 3(5) of TADA. Their Lordships referred to the decision in Arup ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 18/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12 Bhuyan 's case (supra) and reiterated the observations made 

 therein. Support to the views expressed by Their Lordships was 

 
 derived from several decisions of the US Supreme Court, including 

 
 those referred to earlier. 29 The aforesaid discussion leaves no manner of doubt 

 that passive membership is not what is contemplated by section 20 of the UAP Act. It is very clear from the observations made by the 
 
 Supreme Court that if section 20 were to be interpreted in that 

 manner, it would at once be considered as violative of the provisions 
 
 of section 19 of the Constitution of India, and would be struck 

 down as ultra vires
 . In fact, Their Lordships of the Supreme Court
 
 

 of India have interpreted the concept of membership as an active 
 

 membership to save the relevant provision from being declared as 

 unconstitutional. 30 The conflict between the issues of public order and 

 social security, on one hand, and the issues of personal freedoms and 

 liberty on the other hand, which sometimes arises, often puts the 

 Courts in a dilemma. However, the judicial pronouncements always 

 seem to be striving for a delicate balance in such conflict. The ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 19/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 curtailment of civil liberties and freedoms guaranteed by the 

 constitution is held permissible only where the acts in question 

 
 would involve a tendency to create an imminent danger of 

 
 disturbance of law, or where the acts would amount to a clear and 

 imminent incitement to violence. 31 It is in the light of the aforesaid discussion that 

 
 the case of the applicants is required to be considered. The only 
 
 allegation against the applicant Jyoti is that she came to be arrested 

 while acting as a courier for the co-accused, and was found in 
 
 possession of a bag containing a mobile handset and various types 

 of publicity literature. It is on this basis it is submitted that this 
 

 shows the involvement of the applicant with a banned organization. i.e. Communist Party of India (Maoist). 32 Even in case of the applicant Sushma, a similar affidavit 

 in reply has been filed wherein the emphasis is on the 

 dangerousness of the activities carried out by the said Organization. It 

 is submitted that certain objectionable articles were recovered from 

 the room where the applicant Sushma was residing with the 

 accused no.1 Angela. applicants, the contents of the affidavit in reply, and the oral 

 
 arguments advanced by the Special Public Prosecutor, it is clear that 

 there is no material to establish any nexus between the applicants 

 
 and some of the leaders/workers of the said organization who are 

 allegedly actually indulging into various violent activities and 

 
 crimes. There is not even an allegation that the applicants, or any 
 
 of them had, at any time, met any such persons and had agreed to 

 do any illegal acts. The applicants are not alleged to have handled 
 
 any arms, weapons or any explosive substances or to have given 

 incitements to commit any particular violent or unlawful act. Though some literature was allegedly found with the applicant 
 

 Jyoti, there is nothing to show that the said literature was banned 

 by an order under section 95 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or 

 any other law. Thus, basically the allegations against the applicant 

 is that they are sympathizers of the Maoist philosophy, and that they 

 are intending to, or likely to, play an active role in the organization 

 in future. particular social or political philosophy would amount to an 

 
 offence, though such literature is not expressly or specifically 

 
 banned under any provision of law, is a shocking proposition in a 

 democratic country like ours. A feeble attempt to put forth such a 

 
 proposition was made by the Learned SPP in the oral arguments. Such a proposition runs counter to the freedoms and rights 

 
 guaranteed by Article 19 of the Constitution. In this regard, a 
 
 reference may also be made to a decision of the Gujarat High Court, 

 on which reliance has been placed by Shri Mihir Desai. (Criminal 
 
 Miscellaneous Application Nos.12435 to 12437 and other connected 

 applications, decided on 18.11.2010). The applicants therein had 
 

 been alleged to be in contact with a person involved in Naxal 
 

 movement and serious charges of offences punishable under Section 

 121-A, 124-A, 153-A, 120-B etc. of the IPC were leveled against 

 them along with offences punishable under Sections 38 , 39 and 40 of the UAP Act (as it stood then). Certain documents such as 

 agenda of a meeting, in which one of the items was to pay homage 

 to a dead Naxalvadi who was killed in encounter and some 

 literature about revolution and lessons of Communist Party of India 

 (Maoists / Leninists) containing, inter alia, features of Guerrilla ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 22/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 Warfare etc.was seized from the applicants. While releasing the 

 applicants on bail, the High court observed that the seizure of the so 

 
 called incriminating material, by itself, cannot show participation in 

 
 an activity prohibited by law. It was held that mere possession of 

 such literature, without actual execution of the ideas contained 

 
 therein, would not amount to any offence. 31 The applicants are young persons. The applicant Jyoti 
 
 is of 19 years and the applicant Sushma is of 26 years. They are in 

 custody since April 2011. It appears that they come from a poor 
 
 family. A number of persons are influenced, and get attracted 

 towards the Maoist Philosophy because of the oppression of the 
 

 weaker section which they might have experienced in the social set 
 

 up. The applicants also, like a number of such persons, might have 

 been influenced and impressed by the Maoist philosophy. It has 

 been recognized even by the committees appointed by the 

 government to study the problem of naxalites that it is the social, 

 political, economic and cultural discrimination faced by the poor, 

 that is throwing a large number of discontended people towards the 

 Maoists. It is impossible to hold that all such persons are to be 

 treated as members of a terrorist organization, or that they are ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:12:40 ::: 23/26 BA 1020 AND 1066-12

 liable to be punished for having some faith in such philosophy, or for 

 having sympathy for those who propagate such philosophy. It is in 

 
 this context, that the concept of active membership and passive 

 
 membership has been judicially evolved. 33 Since none of the applicants is said to have indulged 

 
 into any acts of violence or of being a party to any conspiracy for 

 committing any particular violent act or crime, they cannot be held, 

 
 prima facie, to have committed the offences in question. Though it 
 
 appears that they had come in contact with the members of the said 

 organization, and were perhaps learning about the philosophy and 
 
 ideology of the said organization, they cannot be prima facie held as 

 offenders. Even if they were impressed by the said philosophy and 
 

 ideology, still they cannot be said to be members - much less such 
 

 members as would attract the penal liability - of the said 

 organization. There does not seem to be a prima facie case against 

 the applicants even in respect of an offence punishable under section 

 38 of the UAP Act, which expands the scope of the criminal liability 

 attached to the membership of a terrorist organization, inasmuch as, 

 the mens rea in that regard, should necessarily be with respect to 

 such activities of the organization as are contemplated in section 15 , 

 and made punishable by sections 16 to 19 of the UAP Act. Bail Application No.1020 of 2012 rightly submitted that the case 

 
 against the applicant is based on the assumption or apprehension 

 that later on, they may become active workers of the said 

 
 organization. In fact, in the course of her arguments, the learned 

 Special Public Prosecutor also urged that the applicants should not 

 
 be released on bail as in future they were likely to resort to violence 
 
 and take active part in attaining the goals of the said organization. In 

 my opinion, on such a ground, and on such apprehension, the 
 
 applicants cannot be denied bail. 35 Considering all the aforesaid aspects, I am inclined to 
 

 release the applicants on bail. However, to ensure that the 

 applicants would face their trial and would be available to the 

 police when necessary, it would be necessary to impose appropriate 

 conditions on them. In this regard, at this stage, I have heard the 

 learned counsel for the applicants. It is submitted that the 

 applicants would be ready to attend the police station, in the area 

 within the jurisdiction, of which they would reside. the applicant would attend the Dhankavdi Police Station, if so 

 
 directed by the Court, till the disposal of the case against her. Learned counsel for the applicant Sushma submits that the 

 applicant is a resident of Nagpur, and she would attend the Ajni 

 
 Police Station, within the local jurisdiction of which she would be 

 residing. In the result, the following order is passed:-