Md. Sayeed @ Master .............. Appellant
 Versus
 The Union of India through CBI ............... Respondent --- CORAM: Hon'ble Mr. Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh --- Through: Video Conferencing -- For the Appellant : Mr.Rakesh Kumar, Advocate,
 For the Resp.-CBI : Mr. Prashant Pallav, ASGI
 M/s. Navneet Sahay, Shivani Jhaluka, A.C to A.S.G.I --- 04/22.04.2022 Admit . Call for the Lower Court Records from the court of learned
 Special Judge-V, CBI, (A.H.D. Scam Cases), Ranchi in connection with
 R.C.Case No. 47(A)/1996-PAT. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that Lower Court
 Records of the instant R.C. Case have already been received in connected
 appeals. Learned counsel for the appellant, therefore, seeks to press the
 prayer for suspension of sentence made through I.A. No. 1956 of 2022. Learned counsel for the appellant during course of his submission
 on merits, has also sought privilege of suspension of sentence as the appellant
 claims to have undergone more than half of the custody as per the statements
 made at para 12 of the Memo of Appeal. However, no documents and order-
 sheet of learned CBI Court has been filed in support of period of custody. Learned ASGI submits that no instructions have been received as
 regards the claim of custody undergone by the appellant. Learned counsel for the parties, therefore, propose that liberty may
 be granted to the learned counsel for the appellant and the CBI to inspect the lower
 court records, especially the order sheet of the case RC Case No. 47(A)/1996
 (Patna) to ascertain the total period of custody undergone by the appellant in
 connection with the instant case. As such, learned counsel for the appellant and the CBI are allowed
 to inspect the lower court records jointly, if necessary, with authorized CBI
 official to ascertain the total period of custody undergone by the appellant. On
 requisition being made, learned Registrar General would authorize such inspection
 to be made in the presence of a competent official of the Registry within a period
 of two weeks from today. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that he would endeavour to file a
 supplementary affidavit to enclose the supporting documents such as order sheet
 of the case as well within this time. The supplementary affidavit so filed be placed
 on record on the next date. As prayed for, list this case on 6th May 2022. (Aparesh Kumar Singh, J)
Jk/