55. Applying the aforesaid principle of law, we find the evidence of
 the investigating officer not only unreliable but we can go to
 the extent to saying that the same does not constitute legal
 evidence". 91. Here in this case, accused Parvez Alam was arrested in the
 Court on 24.02.2016. Insp. Narender PW-42 recorded his
 disclosure statement Ex.PW37/Y on the same date. It may be
 argued on behalf of the State that since the accused persons
 were arrested in the Court, it was not possible for the IO to
 arrange two independent witnesses to witness the disclosure
 statement. The IO has stated in his Court statement that he had
 received the information regarding arrest of accused Parvez
 Alam in pursuant to the said information, he had come to the
 Court and thereafter arrested the accused and recorded his
 disclosure statement. Since the IO had received the information
 about the arrest of the accused Parvez Alam before going to the
 Court, he could have easily arranged two independent
 witnesses for the Panchnama, but no such exercise was carried
 out by him. In absence of the independent witness, much
 credibility cannot be attached with the disclosure statement. 92. Secondly, when an accused makes a disclosure statement, the BABRU
 BHAN
 exact statement or the exact words uttered by the accused,
 Digitally
 should be incorporated in the first part of the Panchnama, signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 93. Furthermore, the first disclosure statement of accused Parvez
 Alam was recorded by PW-16 ASI Ramesh wherein accused
 Parvez Alam had allegedly disclosed the place of disposal of
 the pistol. However, no recovery was effected in pursuant to
 that disclosure statement. Subsequently, when second
 disclosure statement Ex.PW37/Y was recorded by Insp.
 Narender PW-42 on 24.02.2016, the information given in the
 said disclosure statement had already been revealed to the
 police in the previous disclosure statement given to ASI
 Ramesh. The spirit of Section 27 of Indian Evidence Act is
 discovery of new fact related to the offence on the basis of BABRU
 BHAN
 information given by the accused. In case, the information
 Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU BHAN
 Date: 94. Even further, the first disclosure statement was made by
 accused Parvez Alam on 23.02.2016 whereas the recovery of
 the pistol was effected on 25.02.2016. Being relevant it may be
 noted here that accused Parvez Alam was arrested by IO of this
 case on 24.02.2016 but he was not taken for recovery that day.
 IO has sought to explain that place of the recovery was situated
 in Bahadurgarh, Haryana and the border between Delhi and
 Haryana was sealed due to Jaat agitation. Next day, i.e. on
 25.02.2016, they visited the place with assistance of local
 police. This Court is not inclined to accept this explanation for
 the reason that the efforts made by the IO of this case to gain
 entry in Haryana for the purpose of recovery could have been
 made on 24.02.2016 also. Moreover, no one can prevent an
 investigating officer from visiting any place for purpose of
 investigation. 95. For the aforesaid reasons, the recovery of the pistol itself comes
 under shadow of doubts in the first place. 96. Further, for sake of arguments, even if the recovery of the pistol
 at instance of accused Parvez Alam is accepted to be genuine,
 same shall still not be sufficient to convict the accused persons. BABRU
 In this context, the observations made by Hon'ble Delhi High BHAN
 Court in case titled as Niwas @ Patel Vs. State, Criminal Digitally
 by BABRU
 BHAN
 signed

 Date: 55. A somewhat similar paradox was faced by the
 Supreme Court in the decision reported as AIR 1978 SC
 1511 Modan Singh vs. State of Rajasthan. There was a
 hiatus in the bore of the firearm and the bullet which was
 referred for opinion. The ballistic report which initially
 wayward, finally concluded that the suspected bullet was
 fired from the firearm. The expert was not cross-
 examined by the defence on his opinion as to how could
 he conclusively so establish. The Supreme Court noted
 that no question was put to the ballistic expert as to how
 could be give a conclusive opinion because of the fact that
 the barrel of the pistol was loose and could house bullets
 of even a lesser bore. Notwithstanding that the expert
 testimony was not even challenged during cross-
 examination, the Supreme Court held that it cannot with
 certainty be said that the firearm in question was used to
 commit the crime. In the decision reported as AIR 1957
 AP 758 In Re.Kodurthimma Reddi & Ors. (Prisoners),
 while discussing the evidentiary worth of a ballistic report
 and opinion and testimony of a ballistic expert it was
 BABRU
 highlighted that the test cartridge and the data generated BHAN

 therefrom on basis whereof the opinion was penned
 Digitally
 should be sent to the Court. signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 56. The reason is obvious. It is the primary duty of the
 Court to see the photographs of the striations marks
 generated on the suspect and the sample/test bullet and
 then form an opinion. 57. As noted by us, in the instant case neither the
 photographs generated showing the striations marks nor
 the test bullet was sent to the investigating officer and
 hence were not produced in Court. 58. In this connection it assumes of some importance that
 as per the doctor who conducted post-mortem on the body
 of the deceased, the bullet injury on the deceased was a
 rifled injury meaning thereby the weapon of offence had
 a sufficiently long barrel with spiral groove, for only then
 could the bullet spin and as a result of the spinning bullet
 hitting the body, rifled injury resulting there from.
 Country made pistols or for that matter even pistols
 generally have short and smooth barrel and cannot result
 in a rifled injury. The sketch Ex.PW-41/D-1, is
 unfortunately not drawn to scale, but shows a barrel akin
 to a small snout i.e. a short barrel. 59. Thus, the appellant would be entitled to the benefit of
 a doubt even with respect to the report of the ballistic
 expert." 97. The facts of the present case on the aforesaid aspect are almost
 identical. V.R. Anand, Assistant Director Ballistics PW-26 has
 deposed in his court statement that the country made pistol sent
 for examination was capable of discharging bullet of .303 bore
 and .315 bore. The recovered bullets marked as Ex.EB-1 was
 corresponded to bullet of .303 cartridge. The bullet Mark EB-2
 corresponded to bullet of .315 inch cartridge. The striation
 BABRU
 marks on both the bullets were compared with the test fired BHAN

 bullets. However, no definite opinion could be given as the Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 98. Further, the photographs of the striation marks were to be
 produced before this Court. However, no such photograph
 generated showing the striation marks were produced in the
 Court. 99. Further, Dr. Manoj Dhingra PW-21 who conducted the
 postmortem on the body of the deceased has deposed in his
 court statement that cause of death was shock as a result of head
 and chest injury due to rifled fire arm. In the judgment referred
 above, Hon'ble Delhi High court dealt with the similar question
 and observed that the opinion of the doctor goes to suggest that
 BABRU
 weapon of offence had sufficiently long barrels with spiral BHAN

 grooves, for only then the bullet spins and as a result of Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 100. So, as per the ballistic expert Dr. V.R. Anand PW-26, the
 country made pistol which was allegedly recovered from
 accused Praveen Alam was capable of firing a bullet of .303
 caliber also. The bullet Ex.EB2 upon which the striation mark
 were found identical was of .315 caliber which is smaller in
 size. So, the barrel of the country made pistol was larger and
 loose to discharge the bullet of .315 caliber. Therefore, it could
 not have produced the proper striation mark. Further, as per the
 postmortem report given by Dr. Manoj Dhingra PW-21, the
 death was caused due to rifled fire arm injury. Whereas, the
 ballistic expert Dr. V.R. Anand PW-26 has nowhere mentioned
 in his ballistic report Ex.PW26/A that the countrymade pistol
 sent for analysis was a rifled fire arm. Moreover, the barrel of BABRU
 BHAN
 the arm needs to be sufficiently long with spiral grooves to
 Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 101. Thus, as far as the ballistic report Ex.PW26/A is concerned,
 accused persons are entitled to the benefit of doubt in respect
 to the same. Same is also contradicted to the opinion of
 handwriting expert. CALL DETAIL RECORD AND CELL IDs OF THE
ACCUSED PERSONS AND DECEASED. 102. The last evidence which the prosecution has sought to prove
 against the accused persons is the call detail record and their
 cell location. Relevant it would be to note that none of the
 mobile number which the prosecution has claimed to have been
 used by accused persons was issued in their name. One of the
 mobile no. 9991338910 which was allegedly used by accused
 Sombir for calling deceased Anil was registered in the name of
 father of accused Sombir. However, that person was never
 examined in the court to prove the said fact. It is also the case
 of prosecution that accused Sombir had called deceased Anil
 on his mobile number in the night of the murder. The mobile
 which was alleged being used by deceased Anil is also not
 registered in his name. So, the call detail record relied upon by
 the prosecution shall also not prove anything against the
 accused persons. BABRU
 BHAN
CONCLUSION
 Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU 103. The conclusion of the above discussion is that admittedly, BHAN
 Date: 104. Further, this Court is conscious of the legal position that it
 is not necessary to prove the express agreement between the
 accused persons for criminal conspiracy because conspiracy is
 always hatched in secrecy and it is impossible to adduce direct
 evidence of common intention of the conspirators. Therefore,
 the meeting of mind of the conspirators can be inferred from
 the circumstances proved by the prosecution. Here, in this case,
 the prosecution has not produced any evidence to show that
 before commission of crime, the accused persons namely
 Yogesh @ Yogi and Parvez Alam had met with the absconding
 accused persons and entered into an agreement to commit
 murder of deceased Anil. In nutshell, prosecution has not
 produced any evidence from which any such agreement or
 meeting of mind can be inferred. 105. As has been discussed above, it is well settled legal position
 that in a case based upon circumstantial evidence, the
 circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be
 drawn, must be fully established and the circumstances must of
 conclusive in nature unerringly pointing towards guilt of the
 accused. Moreover, all the circumstances taken cumulatively
 should form a complete chain and there should be no gap left
 in the chain of evidence. Further, the circumstances proved BABRU
 BHAN
 must be consistent with only one hypothesis of guilt of accused
 Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 106. The fate of absconding accused persons namely Sombir @
 Bagdi and Sonu @ Chiku shall be decided as and when they are
 apprehended. 107. Both the accused persons namely Yogesh @ Yogi and
 Parvez Alam are directed to furnish bonds u/s.437-A Cr.P.C. Digitally 108. File be consigned to Record Room. signed by
 BABRU BABRU BHAN
 Date: