Heard learned
counsels for the parties. The matter being
	that of anticipatory bail under section 438 of Criminal Procedure
	Code, learned counsels have agreed for final disposal while making
	submissions, hence Rule. Rule is waived by learned counsel Shri.
	V.G. Popat and learned APP Shri. R.C. Kodekar, for original
	complainant and respondent State respectively and with their consent
	rule is fixed forthwith. The petitioners,
	police officers of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police and
	Head Constable respectively and who have been named as accused in
	C.R. No: I-1/2013 before the Crime Investigation Department (Crime),
	Gandhinagar Zone for the alleged offences under section 217 , 218 , 219 , 221 , 465 , 468 , 471 and 467 r/w section 120-B of Indian Penal
	Code and section 7 , 13 (1) (a) (b) r/w section 13(2) of Prevention
	of Corruption Act 1988; have approached this Court invoking
	provisions of section 438 of Criminal Procedure Code, 1983 ( Code 
	for short) on the grounds mentioned in the memo of the petition. The complainant
	wanted to resist the application and hence Advocate Shri V.G. Popat
	was permitted to address the Court at length and was permitted to
	place on record affidavit also. Learned APP Shri
	Kodekar as well as Shri Popat for complainant were heard at length.
	The facts in brief leading to filing this petition deserve to be
	mentioned in order to appreciate the rival contentions in respect of
	the prayers made in the petition. The
	petitioner No.1 is at present discharging his duty as Deputy
	Superintendent of Police, Dang Ahwa, and petitioner no.2 is
	working
	as Head Constable at Police Head Quarters, Palanpur. At the
	relevant time accused petitioner no.1 was Police Inspector (LCB) at
	Palanpur from 22/8/2009 to 27/7/2011 and he was promoted and
	transferred to Junagadh, PTC on 28/7/2011 as Dy. Superintendent of
	Police. The complainant filed a written complaint against four
	accused persons on 10.12.2009 at Deesa Rural Police Station which
	came to be registered as FIR-I-204 of 2009 for the offices
	punishable under section 193 , 196 , 209 , 465 , 468 , 471 , 114 IPC, alleging
	that complainant and accused had executed an agreement to sale
	without possession on 5.06.2007 in respect of parcels of land
	mentioned therein and on receipt of entire consideration by
	15.06.2008 Sale Document was agreed to be executed. Thus kachha
	 Banakhat was made. Thereafter whenever amount as agreed and
	stipulated was received the Sale deeds were executed. The accused
	did not pay the entire amount and tried to take possession hence the
	parcels of land for which consideration was received was handed over
	to the accused after having it measured by DLR. Thereafter the
	accused no. 1, for snatching remaining parcels of land from the
	complainant, filed civil suit being Spl. Civil Suit no. 29 of 2008
	against the complainant, wherein the accused produced forged
	 Banakhat purported to have been executed 6.06.2007 which
	contained last page of original Banakhat of 5.06.2007 bearing
	signatures of complainant and accused no. 1 to support their false
	claim. Thus last page of original Banakhat dated 5.06.2007 was
	used for forging Banakhat purported to have been executed on
	6.06.2007. Original banakhat dated 5/5/2007 is not produced anywhere
	by any one, including the original complainant. Thus till date the
	original banakhat which is claimed to be original has unfortunately
	not seen the
	light of the day either before the Civil Court or before
	investigating agency in the first case i.e. FIR filed by the
	original complainant or the subsequent FIR filed against the present
	petitioners. What is produced is the banakhat which is alleged to be
	forged banakhat dated 6/6/2007 and that banakhat was subject matter
	of scrutiny by the FSL which opined it to be a forged one. Court at
	this stage need not go into finery of the opinion as the original
	banakhat dated 5/5/2007 was not sent to the FSL as it could not be
	sent as it was not available. The
	complainant had in fact moved an application before the Civil Court
	under section 340 for purgery but that application did not proceed
	further as the Court dismissed the civil suit and there was no
	finding on that application. The dismissal of civil suit was
	followed by filing of First Appeal and Cross-objections by accused
	and complainant respectively and the civil proceedings are resting
	at that stage. The complainant therefore lodged detailed written
	complaint against four accused for forging the document dated
	6.06.2007, which came to be registered as FIR-I- 204 OF 2009 with
	Deesa Rural Police Station, as stated herein above. The complainant
	was not happy with the investigation as despite his insistence for
	incorporating section 467 of IPC in the FIR against the accused no
	concrete actions were taken nor were all the accused arrested and
	therefore complainant filed proceedings in the form of Special
	Criminal Application No. 1818 of 2010 against lop sided
	investigation as the present petitioners who were investigating the
	offense had not arrested all the accused, this petition came to be
	disposed off vide order dated 29.12.2010 directing the investigating
	police agency to submit appropriate report
	or / charge-sheet at the earliest but not later than 20.02.2011,
	reserving liberty to the petitioner i.e. original complainant to
	move the court if the order was not complied with. The original
	complainant thereafter lodged written request to the concerned
	District Superintendent of Police Banaskasntha vide his letter dated
	12.04.2011, making grievances in method of investigation of his
	complaint against the four accused for illegally misappropriating
	joint family agricultural land and for forging one banakhat 
	and producing before the civil court as original banakhat . The
	detailed compliant with Deesa Rural Police Station on 10.12.2009 is
	already filed. Despite repeated efforts the investigating agency had
	arrested only accused no. 1 on 9.04.2011., who was produced before
	Dessa JMFC who was sent to police remand till 11.04.2011. The forged
	 banakhat was valuable security as per section 30 of the IPC
	the investigating Officer has not investigated in proper manner and
	had not invoked section 467 against the accused. Therefore section
	467 should be incorporated and accused be arrested forthwith. Apart
	from sending such written grievances to the Dy.S.P. the complainant
	also made complaint in program called Swagat qua the present
	petitioners not conducting investigation in proper fashion. The
	concerned Dy.S.P. marked that written complaint to the present
	petitioner with some endorsement in Gujarati. The endorsement made
	is in Gujarati to the effect that : I have given my full consideration to the issue involved in this
matter. I have gone through relevant provisions of the Cr.P.C referred to above as well as above refereed observation made by this
Court in case of Rameshbhai Vora (Supra). I have also taken into
consideration the fact that all the four accused persons moved this
Court for quashing of the F.I.R., under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C and
the said application ultimately came to be withdrawn. It is further
clear that all the four accused persons filed application for
anticipatory bail before the Sessions Court, Palanpur and in the said
application the Investigating Police Officer filed his affidavit 
and on oath, it has been stated that all these four accused persons
are involved in the offences alleged. It is further transpires that
after lodgment of the F.I.R., since no immediate action was taken,
the petitioner-complainant had to move this Court for appropriate
direction and this Court also issue appropriate direction to the
Investigating Police Officer. There is also no dispute that though
the charge-sheet came to be filed before the concerned Court, but the
same filed qua original accused no.1, but not qua original accused
no. 2, 3 and 4. Thus, it is clear that by filing the charge-sheet,
though original accused nos. 2,3 and 4 named in the F.I.R. came to be
deleted out as accused persons, no report as contemplated under Section 157 of the Cr.P.C came to be forwarded along with the
charge-sheet as provided under Section 158 of the Cr.P.C. to the
concerned Magistrate. If such report would have been forwarded to the
magistrate stating the grounds as to why the original accused nos. 2,
3 and 4 came to be deleted out as accused persons in this case, the
original complainant would have obtain appropriate remedy to
ventilate his grievance., However, nothing whatsoever was done. Now,
if the grievance ventilated by the petitioner-complainant is not
remedied at this stage, then no other legal option is available under
the Cr.P.C . to the petitioner to ventilate his grievance till the
conclusion of trial. In the above
	view of the matter, without entering into the merits of the case,
	this Court is of the opinion that appropriate formalities which has
	not been undertaken as yet, is required to be now completed. Mr. Raval,
	learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the respondent-State
	submitted that the concerned District Superintendent of Police,
	District: Banaskantha may be directed to supervise the
	investigation, now to be carried out qua original accused nos. 2, 3
	and 4 by the Investigating Police Officer and for that, at least,
	time of one month may be granted and at the end of such period,
	supplementary charge-sheet / appropriate report qua original accused
	nos. 2, 3 and 4 shall be filed before the concerned Trial Court. For
	the foregoing reasons, the concerned Investigating Police Officer
	is directed to investigate the matter and at the end of
	investigation shall file supplementary charge-sheet / appropriate
	report, qua the original accused nos. 2, 3 and 4, on or before 3rd
	March, 2012.0
	 

	
	 

	 It is hereby
	further directed that further investigation and future course of
	action as directed, which is required to be undertaken by the
	concerned Investigating Police Officer shall be under the direct
	supervision of the concerned District Superintend of Police, Dist: Application (For Anticipatory Bail) No. 1099 of 2013 decided on
	22/1/2013 (Coram: Anant S. Dave, J). Learned counsel submitted that in para no.2 of the decision in case
	of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre V. State of Maharashtra & Ors ,
	reported in [2011] 1 SCC 694, it cannot be said to have been
	watered down on account of observation of Apex Court in case of Jay
	Prakash Singh (supra). Therefore apex court s observation in case
	of Mehtre still hold good and would form a binding precedent. Learned APP Shri
	Kodekar invited this Court s attention to the provision of Section
	57 and 167 of Code of Criminal Procedure and contended that 24 hours
	period available to the investigating agency is a crucial period in
	investigating the crime and that happens to be so precious right so
	far as investigating agency is concerned, same may not be taken away
	by granting protection under section 438 Cr.P.C. Learned
	counsel for State thereafter contended that the allegations
	contained
	in the complaint are against the police officers alleged to be
	indulging in such practice than it assume more serious complexion 
	which also would weigh against the Court exercising discretion in
	favour of the petitioners. The police officers have been alleged to
	have indulged in helping the accused against whom complaint was
	filed and said complaint was being investigated. The change in
	paragraphs of the statement amounting to helping the accused in
	creating case against the original complainant in respect of the
	land transaction. That the FSL report qua banakhat is available, the
	grant of protection by way of anticipatory bail would seriously
	affect the investigation and therefore in the interest of
	investigation anticipatory bail may not be granted. Learned counsel
	for the State relying upon a decision in case of State
	Rep. By The C.B.I. Vs. Anil Sharma , reported in (1997) 7 SCC 187,
	contended that the consideration while granting anticipatory bail
	shall be different than those required to be considered for
	regarding regular bail. It was further contended that the original
	complainant counsel s submission qua the antecedents of the
	present petitioners especially petitioner no.1 needs to be
	considered in its proper perspective as investigating officer s
	report qua the custodial death has
	still not taken shape of any summary report to be filed in the Court
	and it is under scrutiny of competent officer at the level of
	Superintendent of Police. Therefore the original complainant
	counsel s contention with regard to antecedent may be taken into
	consideration which will go against exercising power of granting
	protection under section 438 Cr.P.C. Learned counsel at this stage
	has fairly submitted that there is no such antecedent so far as
	petitioner no.2 is concerned at least as on date known on the
	record. Learned counsel
	for the respondent State further submitted that if section 487 is
	considered to be non-cognizable so far as present facts are
	concerned, then also, the Court may take into consideration that the
	complainant has made sufficient allegations which would bring the
	case under the purview of section 7 and other sections of
	Corruption Act which will make it cognizable and when cognizable
	offences are being investigated in respect of the seriousness of the
	allegations by the police officers the same may be appreciated and
	the petitioners may not be granted protection under section 438 of
	Cr.P.C. Learned counsel
	Shri Popat appearing for the original complainant invited this
	Court s attention to Gujarat Police Manual, 1975 with special
	emphasize upon para 170 and contended that duty is cast upon the
	police investigating officer to record statement correctly. The
	language of that part is required to be reproduced as under. 170-
Examination of witnesses- (1) Under Section 161 of the Criminal
Procedure Code, an investigating officer is empowerd to examine
orally any person (including even a suspect) who is supposed to be
acquainted with
the facts and circumstances of the case, and if he wishes,shall make
a separate and true record of the statement of each such person whose
statement he records. The person so questioned is bound to answer all
questions truly,but not bound to give incriminating answers. The
investigating officer may, whenever necessary, require any other
Police Officer not lower in rank than a Head Constable, to examine
witnesses. For the examination of witnesses residing at long
distances, a requisition may be made to local Police Officers not
lower in rank than a Head Constable through the proper channel. 16. Para 170 is thus
casting an obligation upon the investigating officer to record the
statement correctly and truly. Learned counsels for the original
complainant thus contended that when the video graph of the act of
recording of the statement and hard copy thereof are not tallying
with each other and as many as 4 to 5 paragraphs are said to be
incorporated which have not been owned up by the complainant, it
becomes clear case of interpolation at the end of police officer who
was activated on account of non-fulfillment of the demand of graft
which the complainant has complained of in his complaint. The demand
of gratification was not fulfilled and hence complainant was
victimized by putting in his own mouth the transaction which has
never taken place where under it was an attempt to weaken the case of
the complainant even so far as civil proceedings are concerned. Such
an act on the part of the police officer when being investigated the
Court may not exercise discretion in favour of the petitioners. Learned
	counsel for the complainant invited this Court's attention to the
	factom of filing complaint before the Deesa Rural Police Station and
	submitted that it is not known as to why and for what reason
	complaint came to be transferred to Local Crime Branch (LCB). The
	complainant had given typed written complaint where in
	the complainant had carefully made all the averments and even
	appropriate sections were also incorporated in the complaint and
	when the complaint was in writing then there was no earthly reason
	for not invoking section 467 of IPC. The omission of complainant s
	advocate in mentioning section 467 in the heading by itself would
	not absolve the investigating officer of his duty to incorporate the
	said section while recording complaint as all the required
	allegation indicative of commission of offense punishable under
	section 467 were made. Thus a mistake of advocate in drafting the
	complaint could not have been taken undue advantage of
	by the investigating officer as he avoided invoking same despite
	repeated requests afterwards. Section 467 is not
	there because the advocate who drafted the complaint committed
	mistake in not mentioning, though the allegations are made. Learned
	counsel for the complainant thereafter invited this Court s
	attention to provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act and relying
	upon extensively relevant provision of section 7 r/w section 20 contended that the offence is cognizable and even if section 467
	I.P. Code is not invoked so as to make it cognizable, this section,
	namely section 7 of Corruption Act would make the offence cognizable
	and therefore, learned APP has rightly relied upon Section 155 (4)
	to indicate that out of the group of offences if at least one
	offence is made cognizable, the investigation is to be conducted as
	if there is cognizable offence and therefore, even if this Court is
	of the view that invocation of section 467 I.P. Code is not squarely
	making it cognizable, there still remains to be noted that
	provisions section 7 of Corruption Act are invoked. Learned counsel
	Shri Popat for the complainant further contended that even if it is
	said that Section 467 of I.P. Code so far as present complaint is
	concerned is not making the offence cognizable but Section 7 of the
	Corruption Act would make it squarely cognizable and therefore, the
	entire circumstances and facts read with section 155(4) Cr.P.C., it
	would becomes clear that the investigation would be harmed if the
	anticipatory bail is granted to the petitioners. Shri
	Popat invited this Court s attention to the averments made in the
	affidavit filed by the complainant and contended that the antecedent
	of the petitioner no.1 is also mentioned which indicated that
	petitioner was facing criminal case in respect of his involvement
	in one murder case and another of a custodial death. At this stage
	it was clarified by learned counsel for the petitioners that so far
	as the custodial death is concerned, concerned investigating officer
	has already made report which is awaiting its consideration by
	superior officer for filing appropriate summary, where under it is
	specifically recorded that so far as present petitioner no.1 is
	concerned there was no role in death which has occurred and it was a
	suicide and petitioner no.1 had been said to have been having no
	nexus there with. Learned APP Shri Kodekar submitted that this
	report is not accepted by the superior authority and is under
	consideration. Be that as it may. The Counsel for the
	petitioner at this stage contended that so far as the case in
	respect of murder is concerned especially of the accused petitioner
	no.1 is concerned, he has been charged with section 201 and no
	direct involvement, but that in itself would not weigh with the
	Court in any manner looking to the facts & circumstances of the
	present case. This
	Court is of the considered view that at the first blush when the
	allegation is made against police officer or for that matter anyone
	in uniform the Courts need to be very careful as from any angle the
	interest of justice would warrant close scrutiny, otherwise it would
	have very telling effect upon the morale and functioning of police
	officers, therefore this Court has taken sufficient care to
	undertake close scrutiny of the material which is produced by all
	parties in respect
	of the prayers made in this petition. The Court must record at this
	stage that learned counsel Shri Popat has under the instruction of
	complainant prayed and requested this Court that his lengthy
	submissions recorded herein above, may not be dealt with and he has
	instructions not to invite this Court s reasoned order in case
	Court is inclined to grant protection to the accused under Section
	438 of the CRPC. In other words he submits that despite of
	submissions made at length his submissions may not be dealt with on
	merits as it is otherwise likely to affect the proceedings in
	various courts and therefore, complainant has specifically asked him
	to make a specific request to the Court not to give reason on the
	submissions made by learned counsel for the complainant. The present
	petitioners are facing serious allegations of committing offenses
	under various provisions. Out of all sections pressed into service
	against the present petitioners only two sections would warrant
	detail discussion as in case of appropriate facts and circumstances
	would constitute cognizable offenses. The Section 467 and section 7 read with other section of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. Let me deal with the aspect of Section 467 of IPC. The facts
	as narrated by the complainant and relied upon by the Counsels of
	complainant as well as investigating agency do not indicate that
	these facts, the nature of so called forged document which cannot be
	in any event termed or treated as a promissory note of the
	central Government make it a cognizable offense, even if the
	allegations in that behalf are taken to be correct for the sake of
	its examination without holding them to be so. The learned APP as
	well as the Counsel for the complainant also therefore could not
	dwell upon this aspect with more tress. This brings the
	Court to consider the second serious most allegations in respect of
	demand of bribe money from the complainant. The Counsel for the
	original complainant was right in his submissions that section 7 read with section 20 of the PC ACT , would make, in a given facts
	and situation, even mere demand of bribe a cognizable offense. But
	in the facts of the present case as narrated by the complainant
	would clearly indicate that the complainant did not pursue his
	remedy and did not lodge complaint against the petitioners so as to
	enable the competent police officer or anti-corruption bureau to
	register part one complaint and lay a trap. In other words the
	complaint has though clearly stated in his complaint that
	petitioners demanded bribe of Rs.30 laks on 21.04.2011 when his
	statement was being recorded and video-graphed, he chose not to
	register any complaint in this regard to any authority. The complainant has
	stated in his complaint that the investigation office i.e.
	petitioner no.1 demanded bribe money from him for arresting the
	remaining accused. But the entire narration and further statements
	of the complainant and his uncle recorded by the Investigating
	Officer in the present case clearly indicate that bribe money were
	allegedly demanded from the complainant when he was taken outside
	the office where the statement was being recorded on 21.04.2011. The
	Complainant s uncle who had accompanied the complainant to the
	office of the petitioner where the complainant s statement on
	21.04.2011 was being recorded also do not say that the petitioners
	demanded money in his presence or that he witnessed any such talk or
	any such suggestions from the petitioners to the complainant. The
	complainant s uncle stated in his statement that his nephew the
	complainant later informed him that petitioners had demanded bribe
	money of Rs.30 lakh from him. Thus as on date there are only three
	pieces of material so far as demand of bribe money is concerned.
	Firstly the complaint, secondly the further statement of the
	complainant himself before present investigating officer and thirdly
	the statement of complainant s uncle who had accompanied the
	complainant on that day i.e. on 21.04.2011, to the effect that he
	came to know from the complainant himself that petitioners had
	demanded bribe money from the complainant. The development of
	the events and the perseverance on the part of the complainant which
	indicated that complainant has been all along vigilantly pursuing 
	his case at all levels and in all forums. Complainant has succeeded
	in suit and also filed cross objection in First Appeal preferred by
	the accused. Complainant could not succeed to bring about any result
	on application for proceedings under section 340 Cr.P.C., but that
	has not relented complainant in any manner and complainant moved
	complaint with allegations which as stated herein above is taken to
	be correct on its face value would not make all the offences
	cognizable except the allegations qua demand for gratification
	covered by section 7 of Corruption Act. This Court is of the view
	that in the given circumstances when the complainant has not lodged
	complaint based upon the demand leading to allowing trap and when
	statement recorded of the complainant after complaint is lodged
	against present petitioners on 17/1/2013 and the complainant's uncle
	Dhanjibhai Padhiyar s statement on 23/1/2013, a question arises as
	to whether these two statements would be treated as an indisputable
	pointer to the guilty of the petitioner no.1 so as to indicate
	strong possibility and plausibility to bring home guilt and
	conviction. The answer would be obvious and Court need not dwell
	upon it elaborately or else it is likely to have effect upon the
	pending trial and investigation. A moot question
	arises for consideration that in these peculiar facts and
	circumstances whether petitioners deserve to be granted protection
	under Section 438 of CRPC. The observation of the apex court in
	case of Mahetre (supra ) deserve to be set out as under : It is a matter
	of common knowledge that a large number of undertrials are
	languishing in jail for a long time even for allegedly committing
	very minor offences. This is because Section 438 CrPC has not been
	allowed its full play. The Constitution Bench in Sibbia case clearly
	mentioned that Section 438 CrPC is extraordinary because it was
	incorporated in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 and before that
	other provisions for grant of bail were Sections 437 and 439 Cr.PC.
	It is not extraordinary in the sense that it should be invoked only
	in exceptional or rare cases. Some Courts of smaller strength have
	erroneously observed that Section 438 CrPC should be invoked only in
	exceptional or rare cases. Those orders are contrary to the law laid
	down by the judgment of the constitution Bench in Sibbia case. Accordingly to
	the Report of the National Police Commission, when the power of
	arrest is grossly abused and clearly violates the personal liberty
	of the people, as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution,
	then the courts need to take serious notice of it. When conviction
	rate is admittedly less than 10%, then the police should be slow in
	arresting the accused. The courts considering the bail application
	should try to maintain fine balance between the societal interest
	vis-a-vis personal liberty while adhering to the fundamental
	principle of criminal jurisprudence that the accused is presumed to
	be innocent till he is found guilty by the competent court. The complaint
	filed against the accused needs to be thoroughly examined including
	the aspect whether the complainant has filed a false or frivolous
	complaint on earlier occasion. The court should also examine the
	fact whether there is any family dispute between the accused and the
	complainant and the complainant must be clearly told that if the
	complaint is found to be false or frivolous, then strict action will
	be taken against him in accordance with law. If the connivance
	between the complainant and the investigating officer is established
	then action be taken against the investigating officer in accordance
	with law. The gravity or
	charge and the exact role of the accused must be properly
	comprehended. Before arrest, the arresting officer must record the
	valid reasons which have led to the arrest of the accused in the
	case diary. In exceptional cases the reasons could be recorded
	immediately after the arrest, so that while dealing with the bail
	application, the remarks and observations of the arresting officer
	can also be properly evaluated by the court. It is imperative
	for the courts to carefully and with meticulous precision evaluate
	the facts of the case. The discretion must be exercised on the basis
	of the available material and the facts of the particular case. In
	cases where the court is of the considered view that the accused has
	joined investigation and he is fully cooperating with the
	investigating agency and is not likely to abscond, in that event,
	custodial interrogation should be avoided. A great
	ignominy, humiliation and disgrace is attached to the arrest. Arrest
	leads to many serious consequences not only for the accused but for
	the entire family and at times for the entire community. Most people
	do not make any distinction between arrest at a pre-conviction stage
	or post-conviction stage. Whether the
power under Section438 CrPC are subject to llimitation of Section 437 CrPC? The question
	which arises for consideration is whether the powers under Section
	438 CrPC are unguided or uncanalised or are subject to all the
	limitations of Section 437 CrPC? The Constitution Bench in Sibbia
	case has clearly observed that there is no justification for reading
	into Section 438 CrPC the limitations mentioned in Section 437 CrPC.
	The Court further observed that the plenitude of the section must
	be given its full play. The Constitution Bench has also observed
	that the High Court is not right in observing that the accused must
	make out a special case for the exercise of the power to grant
	anticipatory bail. This virtually, reduces the salutary power
	conferred by Section 438 CrPC to a dead letter. The Court observed
	that: (SCC p. 574, para21) 21.... We do
	not see why the provisions of Section 438 CrPC should be suspected
	as containing something volatile or incendiary, which needs to be
	handledd with the greatest care and caution imaginable. As
	against this if the protection is not granted then for such an
	offence alleged and if the arrest is effected the same will have
	tremendous effect upon the morale of investigating agencies which
	are supposed to be investigating independently and in accordance
	with statutory obligation cast there upon. The Court need not
	elaborately deal with the submission of the complainant s counsel
	in view of his request and prayer for not assigning reasons in case
	court is inclined to exercise discretion in favour of the
	petitioners. The Court is unable to accept the contention of learned
	APP Shri Kodekar for the State, that it is their precious rights of
	keeping the accused in custody for 24 hours without production, and
	that if anti bail is granted then the same would be fatally affected
	 as those 24 hours are crucial. In fact the plain reading of
	provision of law i.e. section 57 read with section 167 will indicate
	prima facie that there exists liberty in investigating officer or
	arresting officer but that cannot be construed as an unguided
	liberty which can be equated with the right as sought to be
	canvassed. Moreover when the accused petitioners are police
	officers, they are under obligation to co-operate with the
	investigation, they are not likely to abscond as they are in-service
	officers. There is no other complaint with regard to tampering with
	the evidence. The evidence is in nature of documentary evidence
	which has already been made available. The complainant has disowned
	his signature on paper and that paper is not send to the FSL till
	date for examination and in fact it remains to be noted that unless
	that document is said to be sent and opinion is received, there
	cannot be any solid and valid conclusion for denying any protection
	under section 438 Cr.P.C. to the petitioners. The
	antecedent is though a strong ground but when it is closely looked
	into it appears that those antecedents are also not such as to
	disqualify the petitioners from getting protection under section 438
	of CRPC and court needs to exercise its discretion in favour of the
	two policemen who have been in fact alleged to have committed
	offence while they were discharging their duties. 29.
The
Court is therefore of the view that non-granting of protection would
act as a serious prejudice or rather it may amount to seriously
affecting liberty and career of these officers. Therefore the
discretion is required to be exercised with appropriate caution which
may take care of the requirements of investigation in fair and free
fashion and same may not jeopardize the liberty of the
citizens/petitioners. Therefore protection as sought for is granted
in exercise of power under section 438 Cr.P.C. The petition is
accordingly allowed. The petitioners, in the event of their arrest,
are ordered to be released on anticipatory bail in connection with
C.R. No. I-1/2013, registered before CID (Crime),Gandhinagar Zone, on
each of the petitioners furnishing bond of Rs.10,000/- (Rs. Ten
thousand each) with one surety each of like amount, and on following
conditions, namely:- (S.R.BRAHMBHATT,
J.) 

 

 

 

vgn
 

	 

	Page 26 of 26