developed the law as to privacy from where it was left in

 Kharak Singh. The learned Judge referred to Griswold v.

 Connecticut and Jane Roe v. Henry Wade and observed: 38. A two-Judge Bench in R. Rajagopal v. State of T.N. , (1994)

 6 SCC 632, held the right to privacy to be implicit in the right

 to life and liberty guaranteed to the citizens of India by Article 21. "It is the right to be left alone". A citizen has a

 right to safeguard the privacy of his own, his family,

 marriage, procreation, motherhood, child bearing and

 education among many other matters. 39. In District Registrar and Collector, Hyderabad and

 another v. Canara Bank and another , (2005) 1 SCC 496, [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 33 of 105 another two-Judge Bench held that the right to privacy dealt

 with persons and not places. The right to privacy has been

 accepted as implied in our Constitution, in other cases,

 namely, People's Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of

 India , ( 1997) 1 SCC 301 and Sharda v. Dharampal , (2003)

 4 SCC 493. SECTION 377 IPC AS AN INFRINGEMENT OF THE RIGHTS TO
 DIGNITY AND PRIVACY 40. The right to privacy thus has been held to protect a "private

 space in which man may become and remain himself". The

 ability to do so is exercised in accordance with individual

 autonomy. Mathew J. in Gobind v. State of M.P. (supra)

 referring to the famous Article, "The Right to Privacy" by

 Charles Warren and Louis D. Brandeis, (4 HLR 193), stressed

 that privacy - the right to be let alone - was an interest that

 man should be able to assert directly and not derivatively

 from his efforts to protect other interests. Blackmun, J. in his

 dissent in Bowers, Attorney General of Georgia v.

 Hardwick et al, 478 US 186 (1986), made it clear that the

 much - quoted "right to be let alone" should be seen not

 simply as a negative right to occupy a private space free

 from government intrusion, but as a right to get on with your

 life, your personality and make fundamental decisions about

 your intimate relations without penalisation. The privacy

 recognises that we all have a right to a sphere of private

 intimacy and autonomy which allows us to establish and [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 34 of 105 nurture human relationships without interference from the

 outside community. The way in which one gives expression

 to one's sexuality is at the core of this area of private

 intimacy. If, in expressing one's sexuality, one acts

 consensually and without harming the other, invasion of that

 precinct will be a breach of privacy. (Ackermann J. in The

 National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v. The

 Minister of Justice, decided by Constitutional Court of

 South Africa on 9th October, 1998). 41. In Bowers v. Hardwick (supra) Blackmun, J. cited the

 following passage from Paris Adult Theatre I v. Slaton,

 [413 US 49 (1973), page 63] : SEXUALITY AND IDENTITY 42. There is a growing jurisprudence and other law related

 practice that identifies a significant application of human

 rights law with regard to people of diverse sexual

 orientations and gender identities. This development can be

 seen at the international level, principally in the form of

 practice related to the United Nations - sponsored human

 rights treaties, as well as under the European Convention on [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 35 of 105 Human Rights. The sexual orientation and gender identity -

 related human rights legal doctrine can be categorised as

 follows: (a)non-discrimination; (b) protection of private

 rights; and (c) the ensuring of special general human rights

 protection to all, regardless of sexual orientation or gender

 identity. 43. On 26th March, 2007, a group of human rights experts

 launched the Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of

 Human Rights Law in Relation to Sexual Orientation and

 Gender Identity (Yogyakarta Principles). The principles are

 intended as a coherent and comprehensive identification of

 the obligation of States to respect, protect and fulfill the

 human rights of all persons regardless of their sexual

 orientation or gender identity. The experts came from 25

 countries representative of all geographical regions. They

 included one former UN High Commissioner for Human

 Rights, 13 current or former UN Human Rights Special

 Mechanism Office Holders or Treaty Body Members, two

 serving Judges on domestic courts and a number of

 academics and activists. Although relatively short period of

 time has elapsed since the launch of the Principles, a

 number of member and observer States have already cited

 them in Council proceedings. Within days of the Geneva

 launch, more than 30 States made positive interventions on

 sexual orientation and gender identity issues, with seven

 States specifically referring to the Yogyakarta Principles. [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 36 of 105 [Michael O'Flaherty and John Fisher, "Sexual Orientation,

 Gender Identity and International Human Rights Law: 44. The Yogyakarta Principles define the expression "sexual

 orientation" and "gender identity" as follows: The Principles recognise: 45. Prof Edwin Cameron in his Article "Sexual Orientation and

 the Constitution : A Test Case for Human Rights", (1993) 110

 SALJ 450 defines sexual orientation: 46. In Bernstein and Others v. Bester and Others NNO,

 1996 (4) BCLR 449 (CC), Ackermann J. pointed out that the

 scope of privacy had been closely related to the concept of

 identity and that "rights, like the right to privacy, are not

 based on a notion of the unencumbered self, but on the

 notion of what is necessary to have one's autonomous

 identity ..... In the context of privacy this means that it is .....

 the inner sanctum of the person such as his/her family life,

 sexual preference and home environment which is shielded

 from erosion by conflicting rights of the community." [para

 117] 47. The Supreme Court has acknowledged that the sphere of

 privacy deals with persons and not places. Explaining this

 concept in District Registrar & Collector, Hyderabad v.

 Canara Bank (Supra) Lahoti, CJ. referred to observations of

 Stevens, J. in Thornburgh v. American College of O and

 G, 476 US 747 (1986), that "the concept of privacy

 embodies the moral fact that a person belongs to himself

 and not to others nor to society as a whole". Lahoti, CJ. also [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 38 of 105 referred to an observation of a commentator in (1976) 64

 Cal. L. Rev 1447, that privacy centers round values of

 repose, sanctuary and intimate decision. Repose refers to

 freedom from unwanted stimuli; sanctuary to protection

 against intrusive observation; and intimate decision, to

 autonomy with respect to the most personal of life choices.

 For every individual, whether homosexual or not, the sense

 of gender and sexual orientation of the person are so

 embedded in the individual that the individual carries this

 aspect of his or her identity wherever he or she goes. A

 person cannot leave behind his sense of gender or sexual

 orientation at home. While recognising the unique worth of

 each person, the Constitution does not presuppose that a

 holder of rights is as an isolated, lonely and abstract figure

 possessing a disembodied and socially disconnected self. It

 acknowledges that people live in their bodies, their

 communities, their cultures, their places and their times.

 The expression of sexuality requires a partner, real or

 imagined. It is not for the state to choose or to arrange the

 choice of partner, but for the partners to choose themselves.

 [Sachs, J. in The National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian

 Equality v. The Minister of Justice (supra)]. 48. The sphere of privacy allows persons to develop human

 relations without interference from the outside community or

 from the State. The exercise of autonomy enables an

 individual to attain fulfillment, grow in self-esteem, build [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 39 of 105 relationships of his or her choice and fulfill all legitimate

 goals that he or she may set. In the Indian Constitution, the

 right to live with dignity and the right of privacy both are

 recognised as dimensions of Article 21. Section 377 IPC

 denies a person's dignity and criminalises his or her core

 identity solely on account of his or her sexuality and thus

 violates Article 21 of the Constitution. As it stands, Section

 377 IPC denies a gay person a right to full personhood which

 is implicit in notion of life under Article 21 of the

 Constitution. IMPACT OF CRIMINALISATION ON HOMOSEXUALS 49. Prof. Ryan Goodman of the Harvard Law School, in his well

 researched study of the impact of the sodomy laws on

 homosexuals in South Africa argues that condemnation

 expressed through the law shapes an individual's identity

 and self-esteem. Individuals ultimately do not try to conform

 to the law's directive, but the disapproval communicated

 through it, nevertheless, substantively affects their sense of

 self-esteem, personal identity and their relationship to the

 wider society. Based on field research, he argues that

 sodomy laws produce regimes of surveillance that operate in

 a dispersed manner, and that such laws serve to embed

 illegality within the identity of homosexuals. He categorises

 how sodomy laws reinforce public abhorrence of lesbians

 and gays resulting in an erosion of self-esteem and self-

 worth in numerous ways, including (a) self-reflection, (b) [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 40 of 105 reflection of self through family, (c) verbal assessment and

 disputes, (d) residential zones and migrations, (e) restricted

 public places, (f) restricted movement and gestures, (g)

 "safe places" and (h) conflicts with law enforcement

 agencies. (Beyond the Enforcement Principle: Sodomy Laws,

 Social Norms and Social Panoptics", 89 Cal. L. Rev. 643). 50. The studies conducted in different parts of world including

 India show that the criminalisation of same-sex conduct has

 a negative impact on the lives of these people. Even when

 the penal provisions are not enforced, they reduce gay men

 or women to what one author has referred to as

 "unapprehended felons", thus entrenching stigma and

 encouraging discrimination in different spheres of life. Apart

 from misery and fear, a few of the more obvious

 consequences are harassment, blackmail, extortion and

 discrimination. There is extensive material placed on the

 record in the form of affidavits, authoritative reports by well

 known agencies and judgments that testify to a widespread

 use of Section 377 IPC to brutalise MSM and gay community.

 Some of the incidents illustrating the impact of

 criminalisation on homosexuality are earlier noted by us.

 We may quote another glaring example. During Colonial

 period in India, eunuchs (hijras) were criminalised by virtue

 of their identity. The Criminal Tribes Act, 1871 was enacted

 by the British in an effort to police those tribes and

 communities who 'were addicted to the systematic [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 41 of 105 commission of non-bailable offences.' These communities

 and tribes were deemed criminal by their identity, and mere

 belonging to one of those communities rendered the

 individual criminal. In 1897, this Act was amended to

 include eunuchs. According to the amendment the local

 government was required to keep a register of the names

 and residences of all eunuchs who are "reasonably

 suspected of kidnapping or castrating children or of

 committing offences under Section 377 IPC. Commenting

 on the Criminal Tribes Act in a speech made in 1936, Pt.

 Jawaharlal Nehru said: 51. In 2006, the State of Tamil Nadu vide G.O. (Ms) No.199

 dated 21.12.2006 recognising that "aravanis (hijras) are

 discriminated by the society and remain isolated" issued

 directions thus: 52. The criminalisation of homosexuality condemns in perpetuity

 a sizable section of society and forces them to live their lives

 in the shadow of harassment, exploitation, humiliation, cruel

 and degrading treatment at the hands of the law

 enforcement machinery. The Government of India estimates

 the MSM number at around 25 lacs. The number of lesbians

 and transgenders is said to be several lacs as well. This vast

 majority (borrowing the language of the South African

 Constitutional Court) is denied "moral full citizenship". Section 377 IPC grossly violates their right to privacy and

 liberty embodied in Article 21 insofar as it criminalises

 consensual sexual acts between adults in private. These

 fundamental rights had their roots deep in the struggle for

 independence and, as pointed out by Granville Austin in

 "The Indian Constitution - Cornerstone of A Nation", "they

 were included in the Constitution in the hope and

 expectation that one day the tree of true liberty would

 bloom in India". In the words of Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer

 these rights are cardinal to a decent human order and [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 43 of 105 protected by constitutional armour. The spirit of Man is at

 the root of Article 21 , absent liberty, other freedoms are

 frozen. [Maneka Gandhi (supra) at para 76 SCC]

 GLOBAL TRENDS IN PROTECTION OF PRIVACY DIGNITY RIGHTS OF
 HOMOSEXUALS 53. The first successful international human rights cases

 concerning the privacy on same-sex relations were taken

 under the ECHR. In Dudgeon v. The United Kingdom, 45

 Eur. Ct. H.R. (ser. A) (1981), and Norris v. Republic of

 Ireland, 142 Eur. Ct. H.R. (ser. A) (1988), the criminalisation

 of such practices was deemed a violation of the privacy

 protection in Article 8 of the ECHR. In Dudgeon v. The

 United Kingdom, the European Court of Human Rights held

 that "maintenance in force of the impugned legislation

 constitutes a continuing interference with the applicant's

 right to respect for his private life (which includes his sexual

 life) within the meaning of Article 8 para 1 ( art.8-1 ). In the

 personal circumstances of the applicant, the very existence

 of this legislation continuously and directly affect his private

 life. In Norris v. Republic of Ireland, the European Court

 of Human Rights ruled that Ireland's blanket prohibition on

 gay sex breached the ECHR. The Court quoted with approval

 the finding of an Irish Judge that: 54. In Modinos v. Cyprus, 259 Eur. Ct. H.R. (ser. A) (1993), the

 European Court of Human Rights again held that such a law

 violated the right to privacy, and maintained that even a

 "consistent policy" of not bringing prosecutions under the

 law was no substitute for full repeal. 55. In Toonen v. Australia, (No.488/1992 CCPR/C/ 50/D/488

 /1992, March 31, 1994), the Human Rights Committee held

 that the continuous existence of Tasmanian sodomy laws

 violates Article 17 of International Covenant of Civil and

 Political Rights. The Committee observed: with the author's privacy, even if these provisions have
 not been enforced for a decade. In this context, it notes
 that the policy of the Department of Public Prosecutions
 not to initiate criminal proceedings in respect of private
 homosexual conduct does not amount to a guarantee
 that no actions will be brought against homosexuals in
 the future, particularly in the light of undisputed
 statements of the Director of Public Prosecutions of
 Tasmania in 1988 and those of members of the
 Tasmanian Parliament. The continued existence of the
 challenged provisions therefore continuously and
 directly "interferes" with the author's privacy."[para 8.2] 56. In The National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality

 v. The Minister of Justice (supra), the Constitutional Court

 of South Africa struck down the sodomy laws on the ground

 of violation of rights to privacy, dignity and equality.

 Ackermann J. narrated the palpable invasion of their rights: 57. In Lawrence v. Texas, 539 US 558 (2003), holding the

 Texas sodomy laws as unconstitutional, the US Supreme

 Court reversed its earlier decision in Bowers v. Hardwick

 (supra). Kennedy, J., who delivered the opinion of the Court,

 said: 58. Since 1967 the process of change has informed legal

 attitude towards sexual orientation. This process has

 culminated in the de-criminalisation of sodomy in private

 between consenting adults, in several jurisdictions. The

 superior courts in some of these jurisdictions have struck

 down anti-sodomy laws, where such laws remain on the

 statute book. In 1967 in England and Wales and in 1980 in

 Scotland sodomy between consenting adult males in private

 was de-criminalised. However, in Northern Ireland the

 criminal law relating to sodomy remained unchanged. In

 1982, in pursuance of the decision of the ECHR in Dudgeon

 v. United Kingdom (supra), sodomy between adult

 consenting males in private was de-criminalised in Northern

 Ireland. The same conclusion was reached in 1988 in Norris

 v. Ireland (supra) and Ireland repealed sodomy laws in 1993.

 Laws prohibiting homosexual activity between consenting

 adults in private having eradicated within 23 member-states

 that had joined the Council of Europe in 1989 and of the 10

 European countries that had joined since (as at 10th

 February, 1995), nine had de-criminalised sodomy laws

 either before or shortly after their membership applications

 were granted. In Australia, all the States with the exception [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 47 of 105 of Tasmania, had by 1982 de-criminalised sexual acts in

 private between consenting adults and had also passed anti-

 discrimination laws which prohibited discrimination on the

 ground, amongst others, of sexual orientation. Tasmania

 repealed offending sections in its Criminal Code in 1997 in

 view of the decision of United Nations Human Rights

 Committee in Toonen v. Australia. Consensual sexual

 relations between adult males have been de-criminalised in

 New Zealand. In Canada, consensual adult sodomy

 ("Buggery") and so-called "gross indecency" were de-

 criminalised by statute in 1989 in respect of such acts

 committed in private between 21 years and older which was

 subsequently brought down to age of 18 years or more. In

 United States of America though the challenge to sodomy

 laws was turned down in Bowers v. Hardwick (supra), but

 subsequently in Lawrence v.Texas, the sodomy laws

 insofar as between consenting adults in private were struck

 down. A number of open democratic societies have turned

 their backs to criminalisation of sodomy laws in private

 between consenting adults despite the fact that sexual

 orientation is not expressly protected in the equality

 provisions of their constitutions. Homosexuality has been

 de-criminalised in several countries of Asia, Africa and South

 America. The High Court of Hongkong in its judgments in

 Leung T.C.William Roy v. Secy for Justice, dated 24th

 August, 2005 and 20th September, 2006 struck down similar [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 48 of 105 sodomy laws. To the same effect is the judgment of the

 High Court of Fiji in Dhirendra Nandan & Another v.

 State, Criminal Appeal Case No. HAA 85 & 86 of 2005,

 decided on 26th August, 2005. Nepalese Supreme Court has

 also struck down the laws criminalising homosexuality in

 2008 [Supreme Court of Nepal, Division Bench, Initial Note of

 the Decision 21.12.2007]. 59. On 18th "December, 2008, in New York, the UN General

 Assembly was presented with a statement endorsed by 66

 States from around the world calling for an end to

 discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender

 identity. The statement, read out by the UN Representative

 for Argentina Jorge Arguella, condemns violence,

 harassment, discrimination, exclusion, stigmatisation, and

 prejudice based on sexual orientation and gender identity. It

 also condemns killings and executions, torture, arbitrary

 arrest, and deprivation of economic, social, and cultural

 rights on those grounds. The statement read at the General

 Assembly reaffirms existing protections for human rights in

 international law. It builds on a previous joint statement

 supported by 54 countries, which Norway delivered at the

 UN Human Rights Council in 2006. UN High Commissioner

 for Human Rights, who addressed the General Assembly via

 a video taped message stated: COMPELLING STATE INTEREST 60. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has opposed the petition

 claiming, inter alia, that Section 377 IPC is a justified

 interference by "public authorities in the interest of public

 safety and protection of health and morals." On the other

 hand, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has

 supported the petition and admitted that Section 377 IPC, by

 criminalising consensual sex between adults of the same

 sex, hampers HIV intervention efforts aimed at sexual

 minorities. Indeed it is the plea of the petitioner that Section

 377 IPC infringes right to health as embodied in Article 21 of

 the Constitution of India. We shall take up the issue of public

 safety and health first. SECTION 377 IPC AS AN IMPEDIMENT TO PUBLIC HEALTH 61. Article 12 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social

 and Cultural Rights makes it obligatory on the "State to fulfill

 everyone's right to the highest attainable standard of

 health." The Supreme Court of India interpreting Article 21 of the Indian Constitution in the light of Article 12 of the

 Covenant held that the right to health inhered in the [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 50 of 105 fundamental right to life under Article 21. [ Paschim Banga

 Khet Mazdoor Samity v. State of W.B. , (1996) 4 SCC 37]. 62. It is submitted by NACO that Section 377 acts as a serious

 impediment to successful public health interventions.

 According to NACO, those in the High Risk Group are mostly

 reluctant to reveal same-sex behaviour due to fear of law

 enforcement agencies, keeping a large section invisible and

 unreachable and thereby pushing the cases of infection

 underground making it very difficult for the public health

 workers to even access them. The situation is aggravated

 by the strong tendencies created within the community who

 deny MSM behaviour itself. Since many MSM are married or

 have sex with women, their female sexual partners are

 consequently also at risk for HIV/infection. The NACO views

 it imperative that the MSM and gay community have the

 ability to be safely visible through which HIV/AIDS prevention

 may be successfully conducted. Clearly, the main

 impediment is that the sexual practices of the MSM and gay

 community are hidden because they are subject to criminal

 sanction. 63. General Comment No.14 (2000) [E/C.12/2000/4; 11 August

 2000] on Article 12 of the International Covenant on

 Economic, Social and Cultural Rights states that right to

 health is not to be understood as a right to be healthy. The

 right to health contains both freedoms and entitlements. [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 51 of 105 The freedoms include the right to control one's health and

 body, including sexual reproductive freedom, and the right

 to be free from interference, such as the right to be free

 from torture, non-consensual medical treatment and

 experimentation. By contrast, the entitlements include the

 right to a system of health, protection which provides

 equality of opportunity for people to enjoy the highest

 attainable level of health. It further states: 64. The 2001 UN General Assembly Special Session (UNGASS)

 Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, held on 25-27

 June, 2001, adopted by all UN Member States emphasised

 the importance of "addressing the needs of those at the

 greatest risk of, and most vulnerable to, new infection as

 indicated by such factors as ... sexual practices." In 2005, 22

 governments from different regions along with [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 52 of 105 representatives of non-governmental organisations and

 people living with HIV as members of the UNAIDS governing

 board, called for the development of programmes targeted

 at key affected groups and populations, including men who

 have sex with men, describing this as "one of the essential

 policy actions for HIV prevention". [UNAIDS (2005)

 Intensifying HIV Prevention, Geneva, Joint United Nations

 Programme on HIV/AIDS]. Since then, country and regional

 consultations have confirmed that the stigma, discrimination

 and criminalisation faced by men who have sex with men are

 major barriers to the movement for universal access to HIV

 prevention, treatment, care and support. [United Nations

 A/60/737 Assessment by UNAIDS to the General Assembly on

 Scaling up HIV Prevention, Treatment, Care and Support,

 March 24, 2006]. At the 2006 High Level Meeting on AIDS,

 the Member States and civil society members reiterated the

 commitment underlining the need for "full and active

 participation of vulnerable groups ... and to eliminate all

 forms of discrimination against them .... while respecting

 their privacy and confidentiality". [Paragraph 64 of 2001

 Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS and Paragraphs 20

 and 29 of the 2006 Political Declaration on HIV/AIDS]. In this

 context UNAIDS, inter alia, recommended the following: 65. A report of the National Conference on Human Rights and

 HIV/AIDS, held on 24-25 November, 2000 in New Delhi and

 organised by the National Human Rights Commission, in

 collaboration with other organisations, concludes: [Report of the National Conference on Human Rights
 and HIV/AIDS : http://nhrc.nic.in/Publications/report_hiv-
 aids.htm] 66. The "Delhi Declaration of Collaboration, 2006" issued

 pursuant to International Consultation on Male Sexual Health

 and HIV, co-hosted by the Government of India, UNAIDS and

 Civil Society Organisations, recognised that: "... the stigma,

 discrimination and criminalisation faced by men who have

 sex with men, gay men and transgender people are major

 barriers to universal access to HIV prevention and

 treatment" [Delhi Declaration of Collaboration : 26th [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 54 of 105 September, 2006]. On June 30, 2008, the Prime Minister

 Mr.Manmohan Singh in a speech delivered at the release of

 the Report of the Commission on AIDS in Asia stated "the

 fact that many of the vulnerable social groups, be they sex

 workers or homosexuals or drug users, face great social

 prejudice has made the task of identifying AIDS victims and

 treating them very difficult" [Prime Minister's address on the

 release of the Report of the Commission on AIDS in Asia: 67. There is almost unanimous medical and psychiatric opinion

 that homosexuality is not a disease or a disorder and is just

 another expression of human sexuality. Homosexuality was [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 55 of 105 removed from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of

 Mental Disorders (DSM) in 1973 after reviewing evidence

 that homosexuality is not a mental disorder. In 1987, ego-

 dystonic homosexuality was not included in the revised third

 edition of the DSM after a similar review. In 1992, the World

 Health Organisation removed homosexuality from its list of

 mental illnesses in the International Classification of

 Diseases (ICD 10). Guidelines of the ICD 10 reads: 68. According to the Amicus brief filed in 2002 by the American

 Psychiatric Association before the United States Supreme

 Court in the case of Lawrence v. Texas: 69. Learned Additional Solicitor General made an attempt at

 canvassing the interest of public health to justify retention of Section 377 IPC on the statute book. He referred to the UN

 Report on Global AIDS Epidemic, 2008, particularly the [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 56 of 105 section dealing with Asia to highlight that HIV /AIDS is

 transmitted through the route of sex and specifically that of

 sex by men-with-men. Reliance was placed on the findings

 indicated at pages 47-50 of the Report to the effect that in

 Asia an estimated 5.0 million people were living with HIV in

 2007 out of which 3,80,000 people were those who had been

 newly infected in that year alone. The UN Report attributes

 this alarming increase in the HIV infection, amongst others,

 to "unprotected sex" in which unprotected anal sex between

 men is stated to be a potential significant factor. Learned

 ASG placed reliance on a number of articles, papers and

 reports, including publications of Centre for Disease Control

 and Prevention (CDC). The objective of ASG, in relying upon

 this material, is to show that HIV/AIDS is spread through sex

 and that men-to-men sex carries higher risk of exposure as

 compared to female-to-male or male-to-female. In his

 submission, de-criminalisation of Section 377 IPC cannot be

 the cure as homosexuals instead need medical treatment

 and further that AIDS can be prevented by appropriate

 education, use of condoms and advocacy of other safe sex

 practices. 70. We are unable to accede to the submissions of learned ASG.

 The understanding of homosexuality, as projected by him, is

 at odds with the current scientific and professional

 understanding. As already noticed with reference to

 Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 57 of 105 as revised in 1987 (3rd edition), "homosexuality" is no longer

 treated as a disease or disorder and now near unanimous

 medical and psychiatric expert opinion treats it as just

 another expression of human sexuality. 71. The submission of ASG that Section 377 IPC does not in any

 manner come in the way of MSM accessing HIV/AIDS

 prevention material or health care intervention is in contrast

 to that of NACO, a specialized agency of the government

 entrusted with the duty to formulate and implement policies

 for prevention of spread of HIV/AIDS. As mentioned earlier,

 NACO confirms the case of the petitioner that enforcement

 of Section 377 IPC contributes adversely; in that, it leads to

 constantly inhibiting interventions through the National AIDS

 Control Programme undertaken by the said agency. It needs

 to be noted here that Government of India is a party to the

 declared commitment to address the needs of those at

 greater risk of HIV including amongst High Risk Groups, such

 as MSM [See United Nations General Assembly Declaration

 of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, 2001, at para 64; NACO,

 MoHFW, National AIDS Control Programme Phase III (2007-

 2012) Strategy and Implementation Plan, November 2006, at

 pages 18-32]. Thus, the submissions made orally on behalf

 of the Union of India are not borne out by the records. On

 one hand, the affidavit of NACO categorically states that Section 377 IPC pushes gays and MSM underground, leaves

 them vulnerable to police harassment and renders them [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 58 of 105 unable to access HIV/AIDS prevention material and

 treatment. On the other, the extensively documented

 instances of NGOs working in the field of HIV/AIDS

 prevention and health care being targeted and their staff

 arrested under Section 377 IPC amply demonstrate the

 impact of criminalization of homosexual conduct. 72. The submission of ASG that Section 377 IPC helps in putting

 a brake in the spread of AIDS and if consensual same-sex

 acts between adults were to be de-criminalised, it would

 erode the effect of public health services by fostering the

 spread of AIDS is completely unfounded since it is based on

 incorrect and wrong notions. Sexual transmission is only

 one of the several factors for the spread of HIV and the

 disease spreads through both homosexual as well as

 heterosexual conduct. There is no scientific study or

 research work by any recognised scientific or medical body,

 or for that matter any other material, to show any causal

 connection existing between decriminalisation of

 homosexuality and the spread of HIV/AIDS. The argument, in

 fact, runs counter to the policy followed by the Ministry of

 Health and Family Welfare in combating the spread of this

 disease. 73. A similar line of argument advanced in the case of Toonen

 v. State of Australia (supra) before Human Rights

 Committee was rejected with the following observations: [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 59 of 105 74. Learned ASG was at pains to argue that Section 377 IPC is

 not prone to misuse as it is not enforced against

 homosexuals but generally used in cases involving child

 abuse or sexual abuse. Again, the submission is against the

 facts. A number of documents, affidavits and authoritative

 reports of independent agencies and even judgments of

 various courts have been brought on record to demonstrate

 the widespread abuse of Section 377 IPC for brutalising MSM

 and gay community persons, some of them of very recent

 vintage. If the penal clause is not being enforced against

 homosexuals engaged in consensual acts within privacy, it

 only implies that this provision is not deemed essential for

 the protection of morals or public health vis-a-vis said

 section of society. The provision, from this perspective,

 should fail the "reasonableness" test. [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 60 of 105 75. As held in Gobind (supra), if the court does find that a

 claimed right is entitled to protection as a fundamental

 privacy right, the law infringing it must satisfy the

 compelling state interest test. While it could be "a

 compelling state interest" to regulate by law, the area for

 the protection of children and others incapable of giving a

 valid consent or the area of non-consensual sex,

 enforcement of public morality does not amount to a

 "compelling state interest" to justify invasion of the zone of

 privacy of adult homosexuals engaged in consensual sex in

 private without intending to cause harm to each other or

 others. In Lawrence v. Texas (supra), the Court held that

 moral disapproval is not by itself a legitimate state interest

 to justify a statute that bans homosexual sodomy. Justice

 Kennedy observed: 76. Further, Justice O'Connor while concurring in the majority

 judgment added that: 77. In Dudgeon v. United Kingdom (supra), the UK

 Government urged that there is feeling in Northern Ireland

 against the proposed change, as it would be seriously

 damaging to the moral fabric of Northern Irish society. The

 issue before the Court was to what extent, if at all, the

 maintenance in force of the legislation is "necessary in a

 democratic society" for these aims. The Court after referring

 to Wolfenden report observed that overall function served by

 the criminal law in this field is to preserve public order and

 decency and to protect the citizen from what is offensive or

 injurious. Furthermore, the necessity for some degree of

 control may even extend to consensual acts committed in

 private, where there is call to provide social safeguards

 against exploitation and corruption of others, particularly

 those who are specially vulnerable because they are young,

 weak in body or mind, inexperienced, or in a state of special [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 62 of 105 physical, official, or economic dependence. The Court

 concluded as follows: 78. In Norris v. Republic of Ireland (supra), the Court drew a

 comparison with the Dudgeon case and relied on the

 reasoning in the latter case to hold that: 79. Thus popular morality or public disapproval of certain acts is

 not a valid justification for restriction of the fundamental

 rights under Article 21. Popular morality, as distinct from a

 constitutional morality derived from constitutional values, is

 based on shifting and subjecting notions of right and wrong.

 If there is any type of "morality" that can pass the test of

 compelling state interest, it must be "constitutional"

 morality and not public morality. This aspect of

 constitutional morality was strongly insisted upon by Dr.

 Ambedkar in the Constituent Assembly. While moving the

 Draft Constitution in the Assembly [Constitutional Assembly

 Debates : Official Reports Vol.VII: November 4, 1948, page

 38], Dr. Ambedkar quoted Grote, the historian of Greece,

 who had said: After quoting Grote, Dr. Ambedkar added: 80. Granville Austin in his treatise "The Indian Constitution -

 Cornerstone of A Nation" had said that the Indian

 Constitution is first and foremost a social document. The

 majority of its provisions are either directly aimed at

 furthering the goals of the social revolution or attempt to

 foster this revolution by establishing the conditions

 necessary for its achievement. The core of the

 commitments to the social revolution lies in Parts III and IV,

 in the Fundamental Rights and in the Directive Principles of

 State Policy. These are the conscience of the Constitution.

 The Fundamental Rights, therefore, were to foster the social

 revolution by creating a society egalitarian to the extent that

 all citizens were to be equally free from coercion or

 restriction by the state, or by society privately; liberty was

 no longer to be the privilege of the few. The Constitution of

 India recognises, protects and celebrates diversity. To

 stigmatise or to criminalise homosexuals only on account of

 their sexual orientation would be against the constitutional

 morality. [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 65 of 105 81. The question of the State in fact being a protector of

 constitutional morality was also canvassed by the

 Constitutional Court of South Africa in The National

 Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v. The Minister

 of Justice (supra): 82. The Wolfenden Committee in considering whether

 homosexual acts between consenting adults in private

 should cease to be criminal offences examined a similar

 argument of morality in favour of retaining them as such. It

 was urged that conduct of this kind is a cause of the

 demoralisation and decay of civilisations, and that, therefore,

 unless the Committee wished to see the nation degenerate

 and decay, such conduct must be stopped, by every possible

 means. Rejecting this argument, the Committee observed: 83. In the 172nd report, the Law Commission has recommended

 deletion of Section 377 IPC, though in its earlier reports it

 had recommended the retention of the provision. In the

 172nd report, the Law Commission of India, focused on the

 need to review the sexual offences laws in the light of

 increased incidents of custodial rape and crime of sexual

 abuse against youngsters, and inter alia, recommended

 deleting the section 377 IPC by effecting the recommended

 amendments in Sections 375 to 376E of IPC. The [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 67 of 105 Commission discussed various provisions related to sexual

 offences and was of considered opinion to amend provisions

 in the Indian Penal Code , 1860; the Code of Criminal

 Procedure , 1973; and Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . In the

 Indian penal Code, recasting of 375 IPC has been

 recommended by redefining it under the head of 'Sexual

 Assault' encompassing all ranges of non consensual sexual

 offences/assaults, which in particular penalize not only the

 sexual intercourse with a woman as in accordance with the

 current 'Rape Laws'; but any non-consensual or non-willing

 penetration with bodily part or object manipulated by the

 another person except carried out for proper hygienic or

 medicinal purposes. The recommended provision to substitute the existing section 375 IPC reads thus: 84. Our attention was also drawn to a statement of the Solicitor

 General of India appearing on behalf of India at the Periodic

 Review before the United Nations Human Rights Council that

 Indian society was accepting of sexual differences. In [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 70 of 105 response to a question from the delegate from Sweden on

 the state of homosexual rights in India, he stated: [The address of the Solicitor General of India before United
 Nations Human Rights Council: rtsp://webcast.un.org/ondemand/
 conferences/unhrc/upr/1st/hrc080410pm-ng.rm?start=02:18:32&
 end=02:37:42 at time index 16.30] 85. Justice Michael Kirby, a distinguished former Judge of

 Australian High Court, expressing in similar vein said that

 criminalisation of private, consensual homosexual acts is a

 legacy of one of three very similar criminal codes (of

 Macaulay, Stephen and Grifith), imposed on colonial people

 by the imperial rules of the British Crown. Such laws are

 wrong: 86. The argument of the learned ASG that public morality of

 homosexual conduct might open floodgates of delinquent

 behaviour is not founded upon any substantive material,

 even from such jurisdictions where sodomy laws have been

 abolished. Insofar as basis of this argument is concerned, as

 pointed out by Wolfenden Committee, it is often no more

 than the expression of revulsion against what is regarded as

 unnatural, sinful or disgusting. Moral indignation, howsoever

 strong, is not a valid basis for overriding individuals's

 fundamental rights of dignity and privacy.In our scheme of

 things, constitutional morality must outweigh the argument

 of public morality, even if it be the majoritarian view. In

 Indian context, the latest report (172nd) of Law Commission

 on the subject instead shows heightened realisation about

 urgent need to follow global trends on the issue of sexual [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 72 of 105 offences. In fact, the admitted case of Union of India that Section 377 IPC has generally been used in cases of sexual

 abuse or child abuse, and conversely that it has hardly ever

 been used in cases of consenting adults, shows that

 criminalisation of adult same- sex conduct does not serve

 any public interest. The compelling state interest rather

 demands that public health measures are strengthened by

 de-criminalisation of such activity, so that they can be

 identified and better focused upon. 87. For the above reasons we are unable to accept the stand of

 the Union of India that there is a need for retention of Section 377 IPC to cover consensual sexual acts between

 adults in private on the ground of public morality.

 WHETHER SECTION 377 IPC VIOLATES CONSTITUTIONAL
 GUARANTEE OF EQUALITY UNDER ARTICLE 14 OF THE
 CONSTITUTION 88. The scope, content and meaning of Article 14 of the

 Constitution has been the subject matter of intensive

 examination by the Supreme Court in a catena of decisions.

 The decisions lay down that though Article 14 forbids class

 legislation, it does not forbid reasonable classification for the

 purpose of legislation. In order, however, to pass the test of

 permissible classification, two conditions must be fulfilled,

 namely, (i) that the classification must be founded on an

 intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons or things

 that are grouped together from those that are left out of the [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 73 of 105 group; and (ii) that the differentia must have a rational

 relation to the objective sought to be achieved by the

 statute in question. The classification may be founded on

 differential basis according to objects sought to be achieved

 but what is implicit in it is that there ought to be a nexus,

 i.e., causal connection between the basis of classification

 and object of the statute under consideration. [ Budhan

 Choudhry v. State of Bihar , AIR 1955 SC 191]. In

 considering reasonableness from the point of view of Article

 14 , the Court has also to consider the objective for such

 classification. If the objective be illogical, unfair and unjust,

 necessarily the classification will have to be held as

 unreasonable. [ Deepak Sibal v. Punjab University ,

 (1989) 2 SCC 145] 89. The other important facet of Article 14 which was stressed in

 Maneka Gandhi is that it eschews arbitrariness in any form.

 The Court reiterated what was pointed out by the majority in E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu , (1974) 4 SCC 3

 that "from a positivistic point of view, equality is antithetic to

 arbitrariness". 90. Affirming and explaining this view, the Constitution Bench in Ajay Hasia v. Khalid Mujib Sehravardi , (1981) 1 SCC 722

 held that it must, therefore, now be taken to be well settled

 that what Article 14 strikes at is arbitrariness because any

 action that is arbitrary must necessarily involve negation of [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 74 of 105 equality. The Court made it explicit that where an Act is

 arbitrary, it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according

 to political logic and constitutional law and is, therefore,

 violative of Article 14. THE CLASSIFICATION BEARS NO RATIONAL NEXUS TO THE
 OBJECTIVE SOUGHT TO BE ACHIEVED 91. The petitioner's case is that public morality is not the

 province of criminal law and Section 377 IPC does not have

 any legitimate purpose. Section 377 IPC makes no distinction

 between acts engaged in the public sphere and acts

 engaged in the private sphere. It also makes no distinction

 between the consensual and non-consensual acts between

 adults. Consensual sex between adults in private does not

 cause any harm to anybody. Thus it is evident that the

 disparate grouping in Section 377 IPC does not take into

 account relevant factors such as consent, age and the

 nature of the act or the absence of harm caused to anybody.

 Public animus and disgust towards a particular social group

 or vulnerable minority is not a valid ground for classification

 under Article 14. Section 377 IPC targets the homosexual

 community as a class and is motivated by an animus

 towards this vulnerable class of people. 92. According to Union of India, the stated object of Section 377 IPC is to protect women and children, prevent the spread of

 HIV/AIDS and enforce societal morality against

 homosexuality. It is clear that Section 377 IPC, whatever its [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 75 of 105 present pragmatic application, was not enacted keeping in

 mind instances of child sexual abuse or to fill the lacuna in a

 rape law. It was based on a conception of sexual morality

 specific to Victorian era drawing on notions of carnality and

 sinfulness. In any way, the legislative object of protecting

 women and children has no bearing in regard to consensual

 sexual acts between adults in private. The second

 legislative purpose elucidated is that Section 377 IPC serves

 the cause of public health by criminalising the homosexual

 behaviour. As already held, this purported legislative

 purpose is in complete contrast to the averments in NACO's

 affidavit. NACO has specifically stated that enforcement of Section 377 IPC adversely contributes to pushing the

 infliction underground, make risky sexual practices go

 unnoticed and unaddressed. Section 377 IPC thus hampers

 HIV/AIDS prevention efforts. Lastly, as held earlier, it is not

 within the constitutional competence of the State to invade

 the privacy of citizens lives or regulate conduct to which the

 citizen alone is concerned solely on the basis of public

 morals. The criminalisation of private sexual relations

 between consenting adults absent any evidence of serious

 harm deems the provision's objective both arbitrary and

 unreasonable. The state interest "must be legitimate and

 relevant" for the legislation to be non-arbitrary and must be

 proportionate towards achieving the state interest. If the

 objective is irrational, unjust and unfair, necessarily [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 76 of 105 classification will have to be held as unreasonable. The

 nature of the provision of Section 377 IPC and its purpose is

 to criminalise private conduct of consenting adults which

 causes no harm to anyone else. It has no other purpose

 than to criminalise conduct which fails to conform with the

 moral or religious views of a section of society. The

 discrimination severely affects the rights and interests of

 homosexuals and deeply impairs their dignity. 93. We may also refer to Declaration of Principles of Equality

 issued by the Equal Rights Trust in April, 2008, which can be

 described as current international understanding of

 Principles on Equality. This declaration was agreed upon by

 a group of experts at a conference entitled "Principles on

 Equality and the Development of Legal Standard on

 Equality" held on 3-5 April, 2008 in London. Participants of

 different backgrounds, including academics, legal

 practitioners, human rights activists from all regions of the

 world took part in the Conference. The Declaration of

 Principles on Equality reflects a moral and professional

 consensus among human rights and equality experts. The

 declaration defines the terms 'equality' and 'equal

 treatment' as follows: Part-II of the Declaration lays down the right to non-

 discrimination. The right to non-discrimination is stated to

 be a free-standing fundamental right, subsumed in the right

 to equality. Discrimination is defined as follows: 94. Section 377 IPC is facially neutral and it apparently targets

 not identities but acts, but in its operation it does end up

 unfairly targeting a particular community. The fact is that [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 79 of 105 these sexual acts which are criminalised are associated more

 closely with one class of persons, namely, the homosexuals

 as a class. Section 377 IPC has the effect of viewing all gay

 men as criminals. When everything associated with

 homosexuality is treated as bent, queer, repugnant, the

 whole gay and lesbian community is marked with deviance

 and perversity. They are subject to extensive prejudice

 because what they are or what they are perceived to be, not

 because of what they do. The result is that a significant

 group of the population is, because of its sexual non-

 conformity, persecuted, marginalised and turned in on itself.

 [Sachs, J. in The National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian

 Equality v. The Minister of Justice, para 108]. 95. As Justice O'Connor succinctly stated in her concurring

 opinion in Lawrence v. Texas (supra): 96. In Romer v. Evans, 517 U.S. 620 (1996), the challenge was

 to an amendment to Colorado's Constitution which named as

 a solitary class persons who were homosexuals, lesbians, or

 bisexual either by "orientation, conduct, practices or

 relationships" and deprived them of protection under the

 state anti-discrimination laws. The US Supreme Court [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 80 of 105 concluded that the provision was "born of animosity towards

 the class of persons affected" and further that it had no

 rational relation to a legitimate governmental purpose.

 Justice Kennedy speaking for the majority observed: Sweatt v. Painter, 339 U.S. 629, 635 (1950)
 (quoting Shelley v. Kraemer, 334, U. S. 1 , 22
 (1948) . Respect for this principle explains why
 laws singling out a certain class of citizens for
 disfavoured legal status or general hardships are
 rare. A law declaring that in general it shall be
 more difficult for one group of citizens than for all
 others to seek aid from the government is itself a
 denial of equal protection of the laws in the most
 literal sense. "The guaranty of equal protection of
 the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal
 laws...." [Page 633]
 "A second and related point is that laws of the
 kind now before us raise the inevitable inference
 that the disadvantage imposed is born of
 animosity towards the class of persons affected. [Page 634]. 97. The Supreme Court of Canada in Vriend v. Alberta, (1998)

 1 S.C.R. 493, held: The appeal was ultimately dismissed by the Supreme Court,

 but the principles laid down by the Court relating to the

 scope of the right to equality enunciated in Articles 14 and 15 are material for the purpose of the present case. At the

 outset, the Court observed that the Act in question is a pre-

 constitutional legislation and although it is saved in terms of Article 372 of the Constitution, challenge to its validity on

 the touchstone of Articles 14 , 15 and 19 of the Constitution

 of India, is permissible in law. There is thus no presumption [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 86 of 105 of constitutionality of a colonial legislation. Therefore,

 though the statute could have been held to be a valid piece

 of legislation keeping in view the societal condition of those

 times, but with the changes occurring therein both in the

 domestic as also international arena, such a law can also be

 declared invalid. In this connection, the Court referred to the

 following observations made in John Vallamattom v.

 Union of India , (2003) 6 SCC 611: [para 21of SCC]. [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 87 of 105 107. The Court discussed two distinct concepts - "strict scrutiny" 108. The Court held that Article 15 's prohibition of sex

 discrimination implies the right to autonomy and self-

 determination, which places emphasis on individual choice.

 Therefore, a measure that disadvantages a vulnerable group

 defined on the basis of a characteristic that relates to

 personal autonomy must be subject to strict scrutiny. 51. The Court's task is to determine whether the
 measures furthered by the State in form of
 legislative mandate, to augment the legitimate
 aim of protecting the interests of women are
 proportionate to the other bulk of well-settled
 gender norms such as autonomy, equality of
 opportunity, right to privacy et al. The bottom line
 in this behalf would be a functioning modern
 democratic society which ensures freedom to
 pursue varied opportunities and options without
 discriminating on the basis of sex, race, caste or [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 89 of 105 any other like basis. In fine, there should be a
 reasonable relationship of proportionality
 between the means used and the aim pursued."
 (emphasis supplied) 109. In Anuj Garg, the Court, however, clarified that the

 heightened review standard does not make sex a proscribed

 classification, "...sex classifications" may be used to

 compensate women "for particular economic disabilities

 (they have) suffered", "to promote equal employment

 opportunity", to advance full development of the talent and

 capacities of our nation's people. Such classifications may

 not be used, as they once were, to create or perpetuate the

 legal, social, and economic inferiority of women." 110. In Ashok Kumar Thakur v. Union of India , (2008) 6 SCC

 1, the Supreme Court refused to apply strict scrutiny to an

 affirmative action measure. The Court held that the

 principles laid down by the United States Supreme Court

 such as 'suspect legislation', 'strict scrutiny' and 'compelling

 state necessity' are not applicable for challenging the

 validity of reservations or other affirmative action

 contemplated under Article 15(5) of the Constitution. [per

 Balakrishnan, C.J., Summary point 9 : page 526 of SCC] 111. On a harmonious construction of the two judgments, the

 Supreme Court must be interpreted to have laid down that

 the principle of 'strict scrutiny' would not apply to affirmative

 action under Article 15(5) but a measure that disadvantages [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 90 of 105 a vulnerable group defined on the basis of a characteristic

 that relates to personal autonomy must be subject to strict

 scrutiny. 112. Thus personal autonomy is inherent in the grounds

 mentioned in Article 15. The grounds that are not specified

 in Article 15 but are analogous to those specified therein, will

 be those which have the potential to impair the personal

 autonomy of an individual. This view was earlier indicated in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India , (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217. In Anuj Garg, S.B. Sinha, J. emphasised this aspect

 with great clarity: (emphasis supplied) [para 51 of SCC] 113. As held in Anuj Garg, if a law discriminates on any of the

 prohibited grounds, it needs to be tested not merely against

 "reasonableness" under Article 14 but be subject to "strict

 scrutiny". The impugned provision in Section 377 IPC

 criminalises the acts of sexual minorities particularly men

 who have sex with men and gay men. It disproportionately

 impacts them solely on the basis of their sexual orientation.

 The provision runs counter to the constitutional values and

 the notion of human dignity which is considered to be the

 cornerstone of our Constitution. Section 377 IPC in its

 application to sexual acts of consenting adults in privacy [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 91 of 105 discriminates a section of people solely on the ground of

 their sexual orientation which is analogous to prohibited

 ground of sex. A provision of law branding one section of

 people as criminal based wholly on the State's moral

 disapproval of that class goes counter to the equality

 guaranteed under Articles 14 and 15 under any standard of

 review. 114. A constitutional provision must be construed, not in a narrow

 and constricted sense, but in a wide and liberal manner so

 as to anticipate and take account of changing conditions and

 purposes so that the constitutional provision does not get

 atrophied or fossilized but remains flexible enough to meet

 the newly emerging problems. [ Francis Coralie Mullin v.

 Union Territory of Delhi (supra), para 6 of SCC]. In M.

 Nagraj v. Union of India , (2006) 8 SCC 212,the

 Constitution Bench noted that: 115. Similar is the sentiment expressed by Kennedy, J. in

 Lawrence v. Texas (supra): 116. Learned ASG strenuously contended that the Judges must

 maintain judicial self-restraint while exercising the power of

 judicial review of legislation. There is a broad separation of

 powers under the Constitution, and the three organs of the

 State - the legislature, the executive and the judiciary, must

 respect each other and must not ordinarily encroach into

 each others' domain. The legislature is a democratically

 elected body which expresses the will of the people, and in a

 democracy, this will is not to be lightly frustrated or

 obstructed. The Court should, therefore, ordinarily defer to

 the decision of the legislature as it is the best judge of what

 is good for the community. He placed reliance on a recent

 judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Government

 of Andhra Pradesh v. P. Laxmi Devi , (2008) 4 SCC 720,

 where the Court after referring to the classic essay of [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 93 of 105 Professor James Bradley Thayer entitled "The Origin and

 Scope of the American Doctrine of Constitutional Law" and

 certain observations of Justice Felix Frankfurter, held as

 follows: 117. The learned ASG also referred to the locus classicus

 judgment of the Supreme Court in State of Madras v.

 V.G. Row , AIR 1952 SC 196, wherein para 15 dealing with

 test of reasonableness reads as follows: 118. It is true that the courts should ordinarily defer to the

 wisdom of the legislature while exercising the power of

 judicial review of legislation. But it is equally well settled

 that the degree of deference to be given to the legislature is

 dependent on the subject matter under consideration. [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 95 of 105 When matters of "high constitutional importance" such as

 constitutionally entranched human rights - are under

 consideration, the courts are obliged in discharging their

 own sovereign jurisdiction, to give considerably less

 deference to the legislature than would otherwise be the

 case. In State of Madras v. V.G.Row (supra), while

 impliedly explicating the scope of power under Article 13 it

 was held that if the legislation in question violated a

 fundamental right, it would have to be struck down "in

 discharge of a duty plainly laid upon the courts by the

 Constitution" [para 13 of AIR]. 119. In R. (Alconbury Ltd.) v. Environment Secretary , [2001]

 2 WLR 1389, Lord Hoffmann spoke of the approach in such

 cases: 120. In this regard, the role of the judiciary can be described as

 one of protecting the counter majoritarian safeguards

 enumerated in the Constitution. It is apt to refer to the

 observations of Justice Robert Jackson in West Virginia

 State Board of Education v. Barnette, 319 US 624

 (1943): 121. We may also refer to the two recent decisions of the

 Supreme Court involving the power of the courts to review

 Parliament's legislative and non-legislative functions - i.e.

 the judgments in I.R. Coelho (Dead) by LRs v. State of

 Tamil Nadu & Ors. , (2007) 2 SCC 1 and Raja Ram Pal v.

 Hon'ble Speaker, Lok Sabha & Ors., (2007) 3 SCC 184.

 In Coelho, the Supreme Court held that it could strike down

 any law inserted into the Ninth Schedule if it were contrary

 to Constitutional provisions. It was observed: 122. In Raja Ram Pal case, the Court disposed of the arguments

 regarding the unconstitutionality of the expulsion of

 Members of Parliament while simultaneously upholding the

 principles of judicial review. The Court began by stating

 that the Constitution was the "supreme lex in this country" 123. In the present case, the two constitutional rights relied upon

 i.e. 'right to personal liberty' and 'right to equality' are

 fundamental human rights which belong to individuals

 simply by virtue of their humanity, independent of any

 utilitarian consideration. A Bill of Rights does not 'confer'

 fundamental human rights. It confirms their existence and

 accords them protection. 124. In Peerless General Finance Investment Co. Ltd. v. Reserve Bank of India, (1992) 2 SCC 343, the Court

 highlighted the role of the judiciary as protector of

 fundamental rights in following words: [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 98 of 105 [para 48 of SCC] 125. After the conclusion of oral hearing, learned ASG filed his

 written submissions in which he claimed that the courts

 have only to interpret the law as it is and have no power to

 declare the law invalid. According to him, therefore, if we

 were to agree with the petitioner, we could only make

 recommendation to Parliament and it is for Parliament to

 amend the law. We are constrained to observe that the

 submission of learned ASG reflects rather poorly on his

 understanding of the constitutional scheme. It is a

 fundamental principle of our constitutional scheme that

 every organ of the State, every authority under the

 Constitution derives its power or authority under the [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 99 of 105 Constitution and has to act within the limits of powers. The

 judiciary is constituted as the ultimate interpreter of the

 Constitution and to it is assigned the delicate task of

 determining what is the extent and scope of the power

 conferred on each branch of government, what are the

 limits on the exercise of such power under the Constitution

 and whether any action of any branch transgresses such

 limits. The role of the judiciary is to protect the fundamental

 rights. A modern democracy while based on the principle of

 majority rule implicitly recognizes the need to protect the

 fundamental rights of those who may dissent or deviate

 from the majoritarian view. It is the job of the judiciary to

 balance the principles ensuring that the government on the

 basis of number does not override fundamental rights. After

 the enunciation of the basic structure doctrine, full judicial

 review is an integral part of the constitutional scheme. To

 quote the words of Krishna Iyer, J. "... The compulsion of

 constitutional humanism and the assumption of full faith in

 life and liberty cannot be so futile or fragmentary that any

 transient legislative majority in tantrums against any

 minority by three quick readings of a Bill with the requisite

 quorum, can prescribe any unreasonable modality and

 thereby sterilise the grandiloquent mandate." [ Maneka

 Gandhi v. Union of India (supra), para 81 of SCC]. [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 100 of 105 INFRINGEMENT OF ARTCILE 19(1)(a) to (d) 126. In the light of our findings on the infringement of Articles 21 ,

 14 and 15 , we feel it unnecessary to deal with the issue of

 violation of Article 19(1)(a) to (d). This issue is left open.

 DOCTRINE OF SEVERABILITY 127. The prayer of the petitioner is to declare Section 377 IPC as

 unconstitutional to the extent the said provision affects

 private sexual acts between consenting adults in private.

 The relief has been sought in this manner to ensure the

 continuance of applicability of Section 377 IPC to cases

 involving non-consensual sex. Our attention was drawn to a

 passage from Constitutional Law of India (Fourth Edition,

 Vol. 1) by H.M. Seervai, wherein the learned author has

 explained the Doctrine of Severability in the following words: .... 3.9 There are two kinds of severability : a
 statutory provision may contain distinct and
 separate words dealing with distinct and separate
 topics, as for example, one sub-section may apply
 it retrospectively. The first sub-section may be
 valid and the second void. In such a case, the
 Court may delete the second sub-section by
 treating it as severable. [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 101 of 105 3.10 There is however another kind of
 severability namely severability in application, or
 severability in enforcement. The question of this
 other kind of severability arises when an
 impugned provision is one indivisible whole, as for
 instance, the definition of a word. Here
 severability cannot be applied by deleting an
 offending provision and leaving the rest standing.
 It becomes necessary therefore to enquire
 whether the impugned definition embraces
 distinct classes and categories of subject matter
 in respect to some of which the Legislature has no
 power to legislate or is otherwise subject to a
 Constitutional limit. If it is found that the
 definition does cover distinct and separate classes
 and categories, the Court will restrain the
 enforcement of the law in respect of that class of
 subjects in respect of which the law is invalid.
 This might be done by granting perpetual
 injunction restraining the enforcement of law on
 the forbidden field, as held in
 Chamarbaughwalla's Case (1957) S.C.R. 930.
 3.11 The principle of severability in application
 was first adopted by our Sup. Ct. when dealing
 with the contention that a tax law must be
 declared wholly void if it was bad in part as
 transgressing Constitutional limitations. Sastri
 C.J., delivering the majority judgment, observed: 128. In R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla v. Union of India , AIR 1957

 SC 628, the Constitution Bench laid down: 129. The notion of equality in the Indian Constitution flows from

 the 'Objective Resolution' moved by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru

 on December 13, 1946. Nehru, in his speech, moving this

 Resolution wished that the House should consider the

 Resolution not in a spirit of narrow legal wording, but rather

 look at the spirit behind that Resolution. He said, "Words are

 magic things often enough, but even the magic of words [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 103 of 105 sometimes cannot convey the magic of the human spirit and

 of a Nation's passion........ (The Resolution) seeks very

 feebly to tell the world of what we have thought or dreamt

 of so long, and what we now hope to achieve in the near

 future." [Constituent Assembly Debates: Lok Sabha

 Secretariat, New Delhi: 1999, Vol. I, pages 57-65]. 130. If there is one constitutional tenet that can be said to be

 underlying theme of the Indian Constitution, it is that of

 'inclusiveness'. This Court believes that Indian Constitution

 reflects this value deeply ingrained in Indian society,

 nurtured over several generations. The inclusiveness that

 Indian society traditionally displayed, literally in every

 aspect of life, is manifest in recognising a role in society for

 everyone. Those perceived by the majority as "deviants' or

 'different' are not on that score excluded or ostracised. 131. Where society can display inclusiveness and understanding,

 such persons can be assured of a life of dignity and non-

 discrimination. This was the 'spirit behind the Resolution' of

 which Nehru spoke so passionately. In our view, Indian

 Constitutional law does not permit the statutory criminal law

 to be held captive by the popular misconceptions of who the

 LGBTs are. It cannot be forgotten that discrimination is anti-

 thesis of equality and that it is the recognition of equality

 which will foster the dignity of every individual. [WP(C)7455/2001] Page 104 of 105 132. We declare that Section 377 IPC, insofar it criminalises

 consensual sexual acts of adults in private, is violative of Articles 21 , 14 and 15 of the Constitution. The provisions of Section 377 IPC will continue to govern non-consensual

 penile non-vaginal sex and penile non-vaginal sex involving

 minors. By 'adult' we mean everyone who is 18 years of age

 and above. A person below 18 would be presumed not to be

 able to consent to a sexual act. This clarification will hold till,

 of course, Parliament chooses to amend the law to

 effectuate the recommendation of the Law Commission of

 India in its 172nd Report which we believe removes a great

 deal of confusion. Secondly, we clarify that our judgment

 will not result in the re-opening of criminal cases involving Section 377 IPC that have already attained finality. We allow the writ petition in the above terms.