1. Heard learned counsel for the appellant and learned A.G.A. for the State. 2. It is evident from the record that the notice has already been served on private respondent no. 2, but none has put in appearance on his behalf and, therefore, the present case is being decided with the assistance of learned counsel for the appellant and learned A.G.A. 3. This criminal appeal has been filed under Sections 14-A(2) of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 against order dated 01.11.2023 passed by Special Judge (SC/ST Act), Pratapgarh in Bail Application No. 1459 of 2023 arising out of F.I.R. No. 131 of 2023 under Sections 376 , 506 I.P.C., Sections 3(2)(v) of SC/ST Act, Police Station Patti, District Pratapgarh. 4. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that the appellant has falsely been implicated in the present case. It is further submitted that a Civil Suit No. 782 of 2015 (Ram Keval Vs. Tulsi Ram & Ors.) in regard to land dispute is going on in between the family of the appellant as well as victim and the same is pending before the Civil Judge (Junior Division), Sadar, Pratapgarh, and only with the intention to make pressure on the family of the appellant for withdrawal of the aforesaid suit, prosecution in question was initiated. It is also submitted that charge sheet was submitted by the Investigating Officer in mechanical manner without recovering any photographs as well as video, as alleged in the prosecution story. It is next submitted that as per the statement of the victim, she was frequently called by the appellant for making physical relations, but there is no evidence for conversation in between them, as the call detail was also not collected. It is lastly submitted that the court below has not considered all these facts while rejecting the bail application and there is no possibility of conclusion of trial in near future, as till today, not even a single witness has been examined. It is, thus, submitted that the impugned order is liable to be set aside and the appellant, who does not have any criminal antecedent and is in jail since 15.05.2023, is entitled for bail. It is also submitted that the appellant is ready to cooperate in the trial. 5. Learned A.G.A. opposes the prayer of the appellant, but does not dispute the fact that the Investigating Officer has not collected any video, audio or photographs as well as call detail report of the victim and the appellant. 6. Considering the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant, learned A.G.A., and going through the contents of the appeal, impugned order, statements of the victim under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C., medico legal report as well as other relevant documents, it is evident that the genesis of the prosecution is that the compromising photographs and videos of the victim were taken by the appellant, on the basis of which, he was blackmailing the victim and she was frequently called by the appellant for making physical relations. However, neither the said videos, photos or the call detail reports were collected by the Investigating Officer and the trial court failed to appreciate this aspect of the matter while passing the impugned order. 7. In view of above facts and circumstances as also keeping in view the fact that the trial of the case is not likely to be concluded in near future, the appeal has substance and it is accordingly, allowed. 8. Impugned order dated 01.11.2023 passed by Special Judge (SC/ST Act), Pratapgarh in Bail Application No. 1459 of 2023 arising out of F.I.R. No. 131 of 2023 under Sections 376 , 506 I.P.C., Sections 3(2)(v) of SC/ST Act, Police Station Patti, District Pratapgarh is hereby set aside. 9. Let appellant, Akhilesh Kumar Maurya be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on his furnishing personal bond and two reliable sureties each of the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following additional conditions :- 10. Trial court is directed to conclude the trial expeditiously. Order Date :- 12.3.2024
 
VKS