> 

 

Title: Motion regarding appointment of a Joint Committee of Both Houses (JPC) (Motion Adopted). THE MINISTER OF FINANCE ( SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE ): Madam Speaker, I beg to move the following: 2. That the Committee shall have the following 20 members of the Lok Sabha as its members:- 3.       That the Speaker will nominate one of the members of the Committee to be its Chairman. 4.       That the Committee shall start functioning from the day it is duly constituted. 5.       That the Committee shall be provided all assistance by the Government and other agencies. 6.       That in order to constitute a sitting of the Joint Committee, the quorum shall be one-third of the total number of members of the Joint Committee. 7.       That the Joint Committee shall make a report to this House by the end of the next session of Parliament. 8.       That in other respects, the Rules of Procedure of this House relating to the Parliamentary Committees shall apply with such variations and modifications as the Speaker may make. 9.       That this House recommends to the Rajya Sabha that the Rajya Sabha do join the Committee and communicate to this House the names of ten Members appointed from amongst the members of the Rajya Sabha to the Committee as mentioned above." Madam, while moving this motion, I feel that I should also express my regret because we could not sort out the issues, as a consequence to which the entire Winter Session was lost. I am not going into why it happened, how it happened and who is responsible, but this very fact clearly demonstrated certain areas of concern which we shall have to address collectively. There are 543 Members of Lok Sabha, and in one respect, each and every one of us is equal. It is because all of us -- collectively and individually -- represent more than 70 crore electors of this great country. Before the election, when we seek the vote of the people, we shall have to subscribe oath to the allegiance of the Constitution, and immediately after being elected and before we assume the office, we are to subscribe to another oath to protect and to follow the Constitution. Therefore, it is our Constitutional responsibility to discharge our functions as Members of Parliament and as Members of the electors. The impasse was resolved, and I must express my gratitude to the Leader of Opposition and to all the Leaders of the political parties. Sometimes, it may appear contradictory, but this is the essence of the Indian democracy that when in the height of tension, then also we were trying to find out as to how the issues could be resolved; how normalcy could be brought back; and how Parliamentary functions could be restored. I will give you just two instances. After the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) submitted his report to the Government, as per the Constitutional practice, it comes to the Ministry of Finance; the Finance Minister sends it to the President; and the President instructs that it should be laid on the Table of the House. As per that practice, the CAG Report on 2G spectrum was laid by me on the Table of the House, and after that as per practice it will go to the Public Accounts Committee (PAC). We expected or at least it was my expectation; I may be totally wrong; and I might have failed to assess the sentiments of the Members of the House. I frankly admit it, but I thought that when it has been laid on the Table of the House and the PAC -- which is traditionally Chaired by a Member belonging to the principal Opposition party -- is going to take it up, then the comments / observations of the CAG in respect of allocation of 2G will be adequately addressed. Therefore, we thought that there is no need of any other Parliamentary Committee. From my own little experiences, which we get as Members of Parliament of this House or that House, I have seen that -- there were four Joint Parliamentary Committees (JPC) and with this it will be the 5th one -- they make recommendations. They make a set of recommendations after going through the papers; examining various documents; examining various witnesses; taking their evidences and recording them, and those recommendations are to be implemented by the Government. In this case, if we look at it from three angles, the accounting part was first examined by the CAG and it was reflected in his report, which is being examined by the PAC, a permanent JPC.  As regards the criminality part of it, long before the submission of the CAG report, a criminality investigation process started from October 2009. So, the criminality aspect was being investigated by the CBI. The other relevant law-enforcing agencies like the Income Tax and the Enforcement Directorate are also examining these issues from that angle as per their legal and Constitutional mandate. The third aspect is in regard to the policy. After the previous Minister resigned and the new incumbent came, he appointed a one-man Commission to look into the policy aspects of allocation of 2G spectrum headed by a person no less than a retired Judge of the Supreme Court, Justice Shivraj Patil. Therefore, we thought that as all these measures have been taken care of and issues have been adequately addressed, perhaps, it would be adequate and there was no need of a JPC. Please remember not to have or to agree to have a JPC is not arrogance, obduracy or obstinacy. We thought that we shall be able to carry conviction with our friends sitting on the other side of the House and we tried, which the Prime Minister in his statement reflected when the actual impasse was resolved by his small but pregnant statement in the morning of 22nd of this month. On 22nd, we thought we might have over-assessed and here the entire responsibility rests with me as the Leader of the House because I believed Prime Minister, I believed the Chairperson of the UPA, I believed my other colleagues in the Ministry. Why have I thought like that? On a similar occasion, exactly on an almost identical occasion, when the then Opposition party, my Party, demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee on Tehelka, then, I think, the then Law Minister or may be Commerce Minister, a Member of the Government, Shri Arun Jaitley, while addressing a Press Conference made an observation that discussion on the floor of the Parliament could not be substituted by an inquiry by a group of Members of Parliament sitting in a Joint Parliamentary Committee. Discussion, debate and decisions on the floor of the Parliament were much more important. In this case, we wanted to have a debate, discussion and thereafter to decide further. But I must express my gratitude again to the Members of the Opposition, as I had pointed out, that there was no lack of interest in resolving the issue. Therefore, when I called the first meeting of the leaders of various political parties on 16th, everybody attended it including the two Leaders of the Opposition of two Houses. On 22nd also, we called another meeting. I am mentioning these dates only to point out that there was no lack of effort to resolve the crisis. Then, finally, hon. Speaker took the trouble of calling a meeting on 30th of November. But unfortunately, we could not resolve the issue. I am not going to elaborate on these issues. But I am trying to draw your attention to a simple fact because from every event, we should draw certain lessons. Here, perhaps, this is not the occasion, it can be debated and discussed at the appropriate time, but we shall have to think of as to whether this is the way the Indian Parliament would function. Whenever it has been done – disruption of the House proceedings by may be 20, 50 or backed by 200 Members, coming to the well of the House, raising a particular demand and to link it up through a particular slogan (which I object very seriously and I will continue to object even if am overwhelmingly outnumbered) that ‘no conceding the demand, no Parliament’ -- is this the way? Parliament cannot be mortgaged to concede to a particular demand. We shall have to think of this aspect. This is not the time, I do agree. We have agreed upon to have the JPC, but for future guidance, yes, at some point of time, the Government will have to consider it. I do agree that it is not that always the responsibility lies on you. But here, you also cannot shirk your responsibility – each and every individual Member. People have voted us to work here, not to disrupt the business of the House. This basic fundamental principle will have to be accepted. I would not like to elaborate on that because I understand some of the issues will be raised by some other Members. Other Members will make their contribution. I would just simply like to point out that it is having a pernicious impact. Two, three things are happening. One thing is happening in almost every State. I read the reports and proceedings of the Assembly. Some sorts of disturbances are taking place. Is it healthy for our democracy? I am not saying that because this issue has been settled, this issue has been sorted out, I am moving the Motion and all of you will support it. There is no doubt in it. But I am raising a question. Taking this opportunity, admitting my own fault, own shortcomings of assessing the sentiments of the hon. Members and trying to resolve the issue earlier so that the whole session was not wasted. We could not have caused the grave distress to the hon. Speaker because she is presiding over the Session. We shall have to think as to how we can find out a mechanism. There will be issues. But if disruption is the only way of expressing one’s grievances and if it continues as it is continuing in almost every State Legislature, I would like to know whether we are strengthening our parliamentary system, whether we are discharging our responsibilities as elected representatives of the Parliament. We do not come from the Heavens. We have seen what has happened. History has taught us. I remember this. As a student, surely Shri Advaniji and many others will remember the exact scenario before 10th of October, 1958 when Marshal Law was declared in Pakistan and the Constitution was abrogated. I am sorry, I am withdrawing the name of ‘Pakistan’. I would say in a neighbouring country, the Constitution was abrogated. The Ministers through a conducted oath and sworn in, were arrested when they came back to their residences. What happened before that in that neighbouring country? In four days, three Prime Ministers were sworn in. In a provincial Assembly, the Deputy Speaker of the House was killed on the floor of the House and the atmosphere was created where all along, the hatred, disapproval and disrespect of the parliamentary institution were generated. And it ended ultimately in establishing an extra-constitutional authority coming in power.  I am not recollecting any such thing in India. But at the same time, please remember that more and more executive becomes with other agency, other institution, try to fill in the vacuum. By law of nature, there cannot be any vacuum. If Legislature could not discharge its duty, if the Executive which is accountable to the Legislature, only to the Legislature and through Legislature to the people, cannot discharge its functions, this type of extraordinary situation will create extraordinary solution which may not be desirable. With these words, I move the Motion and request the hon. House to accept it. MADAM SPEAKER: Motion moved: 2. That the Committee shall have the following 20 members of the Lok Sabha as its members:- 3.       That the Speaker will nominate one of the members of the Committee to be its Chairman. 4.       That the Committee shall start functioning from the day it is duly constituted. 5.       That the Committee shall be provided all assistance by the Government and other agencies. 6.       That in order to constitute a sitting of the Joint Committee, the quorum shall be one-third of the total number of members of the Joint Committee. 7.       That the Joint Committee shall make a report to this House by the end of the next session of Parliament. 8.       That in other respects, the Rules of Procedure of this House relating to the Parliamentary Committees shall apply with such variations and modifications as the Speaker may make. 9.       That this House recommends to the Rajya Sabha that the Rajya Sabha do join the Committee and communicate to this House the names of ten Members appointed from amongst the members of the Rajya Sabha to the Committee as mentioned above." श्रीमती सुषमा स्वराज ( विदिशा ):अध्यक्ष महोदया, नेता सदन ने जेपीसी के गठन का जो प्रस्ताव सदन में प्रस्तुत किया है, मैं उसका समर्थन करने के लिए खड़ी हुई हैं। महोदया, आज पहली बार यह सदन जेपीसी का गठन नहीं कर रहा है। आज से पहले चार बार यही सदन जेपीसी का गठन कर चुका है, जेपीसी के गठन का प्रस्ताव पारित कर चुका है। सच्चाई तो यह है कि जब भी भ्रष्टाचार का कोई बड़ा कांड देश में उजागर हुआ, उस समय के प्रतिपक्ष दल ने जेपीसी की मांग की और उस समय के शासकों ने जेपीसी को स्वीकार किया। लेकिन मुझे हैरानी तब हुई, जब इस बार हम जेपीसी की मांग कर रहे थे तो नेता सदन ने हमारी मांग को इलोजीकल कहकर, हमें माओवादी संगठन में शामिल होने की नसीहत दी। जिस समय मैंने उनका बयान टीवी पर सुना, तो मुझे यकीन नहीं हुआ। लेकिन अगले दिन जब मैंने अखबार में पढ़ा तो एक दम से मेरे मन में यह भाव आया कि नेता सदन एक अच्छे आदमी हैं...( व्यवधान) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : If you just concede for a second, I would just like to clarify. What exactly  I told you here?  If I have described you as  Maoists, what I exactly told it here – if constitutional machineries do not function, extra-constitutional agencies try to fill in the vacancy.  When the Maoists are destroying Parliament as an useless institution – in the classical language, it is the abode of pigsty. If Parliament makes itself irrelevant, naturally, those extra-constitutional authorities will emerge. श्रीमती सुषमा स्वराज :अध्यक्ष महोदया, मुझे लगा था कि शायद वह अपनी उस बात पर खेद प्रकट करने के लिए खड़े हुए हैं, लेकिन उन्होंने आज फिर उसका औचित्य ठहरा दिया। दरअसल बात यह है कि वैसे तो नेता सदन एक अच्छे आदमी हैं, मैं अग़र कहूं कि बहुत अच्छे हैं तो भी गलत नहीं होगा। इस सरकार के वरिष्ठ मंत्री हैं और बहुत अनुभवी सांसद हैं। लेकिन दिक्कत यह है कि जब उन्हें गुस्सा आता है तो वे उचित और अनुचित का ध्यान भूल जाते हैं। जो बात उन्होंने कही, उसका मैं अखबार लेकर आयी हूं। आपने क्या कहा था, यह 23 जनवरी का टाइम्स ऑफ इण्डिया है और सिलीगुड़ी की डेटलाइन है- If the Opposition insists on stalling Parliament over their demand for a Joint Parliamentary Probe into the Second Generation Telephone Technology at rates below market prices, they should join the Maoists. Pranab Mukherjee said here on Saturday. “The Union Finance Minister called the Opposition’s parliamentary probe demand, `illogical’ and said that the Joint Parliament Committee has no power to punish. The Winter Session is lost and if they have no faith in parliamentary democracy, they should join the Maoists.” 

  

          अध्यक्ष महोदया, मैं प्रणव दा से पूछना चाहती हूं कि माओवादी न लोकतंत्र में विश्वास करते हैं, न संविधान में। वे केवल बंदूक की भाषा जानते हैं और बंदूक से ही व्यवस्था परिवर्तन करना चाहते हैं। क्या हमारी जेपीसी की मांग हिंसक मांग है? क्या हम कोई अलोकतांत्रिक मांग कर रहे थे? क्या हम कोई असंवैधानिक मांग कर रहे थे? यदि आपको संसद न चलने देने का हमारा व्यवहार माओवादी व्यवहार लगता है तो प्रणव दा, आपने अभी जो भाषण दिया, मैं आपके समय की, जब आप प्रतिपक्ष में थे, मैं उस समय का एक उदाहरण आपके सामने पेश करना चाहती हूं। उस समय हम शासन में थे और कांग्रेस प्रतिपक्ष में थी और आज की कांग्रेस की अध्यक्षा, यूपीए की चैयरपर्सन इस सीट पर बैठती थीं, क्योंकि वह नेता प्रतिपक्ष लोक सभा थीं। उस समय आप लोगों ने भी जेपीसी की एक मांग को लेकर के हाउस को कितने दिन बंद किया था। क्या वह आपका माओवादी व्यवहार था।...( व्यवधान) मैं होल सैशन की बात कर रही हूं। 12 दिन बंद रहा या 15 दिन बंद रहा, यदि इसमें माओवादी व्यवहार बन जाता है तो मैं कह नहीं सकती हूं। आप होल सैशन की बात कर रहे हैं। मैं आपको बताना चाहती हूं कि कितने दिन बंद रहा और किसी ऐसे-वैसे दस्तावेज से नहीं। अपने यहां एक परंपरा है कि जब सत्र समाप्त होता है तो सैक्रेटरी जनरल एक डीओ लेटर लिखते हैं, जिसमें पूरे सत्र में क्या घटा, यह लिखते हैं। यह उस समय के सैक्रटरी जनरल जी.सी. मल्होत्रा का पत्र है, जिसमें से कुछ अंश पढ़कर मैं सुना रही हूं- “During the Session, the House had sitting for 31 days. A substantial part of the Session was disrupted because of acrimonious scenes within the House. The Business Schedule was often thrown into disarray leading to adjournment of the House for a number of days at a stretch resulting in the loss of nearly 77 hours of business. This Session has created history of sorts when for the first time in our Parliamentary history, the Railway Budget was passed by the House without any discussion. आप जिस प्रश्न-काल की बात करते हैं, during the Session, due to adjournments and interruptions, the Question Hour remained interrupted on several occasions. Out of 600 Starred Questions that were listed, only 66 were answered orally. छ: सौ सवालों में से केवल 66 सवालों में प्रश्न-काल चला। 77 घंटे कितने दिन होते हैं, मतलब 12 दिन आपने हाउस बंद किया और 15 दिन हमने बंद किया तो तीन दिन में हम माओवादी हो गए। प्रणव दा, मुझे सिर्फ एक बात कहनी है कि जिनके अपने घर शीशे के हों, उन्हें दूसरों पर पत्थर नहीं फेंकने चाहिए। अध्यक्ष महोदया, जहां तक हमारी ये बात कह रहे हैं, अभी ये श्री अरुण जेटली जी की बात कह रहे थे। मैं प्रणब दा को याद दिलाना चाहती हूं कि हमारे समय का एक रिकार्ड ऐसा है, जिसका कोई दूसरा उदाहरण नहीं मिलता। मैं जिस समय स्वास्थ्य मंत्री थी, उस समय मैंने पेप्सी कोला में कीटनाशक मिलने के ऊपर हाउस में एक स्टेटमेंट दिया था। स्टेटमेंट के बाद लोग उत्तेजित हो गए और मांग करने लगे कि जेपीसी बनाओ। जिस स्लोगन शाउटिंग की आप बात कर रहे हैं, वे नारे यहां से लग रहे थे। उस समय कांग्रेस प्रतिपक्ष में थी और स्पीकर श्री मनोहर जोशी जी थे। उस समय मैं खड़ी हुई और मैंने कहा कि अध्यक्ष जी, अगर मेरे प्रतिपक्ष के लोगों का संतोष जेपीसी बनाने से होता है तो मैं अभी और इसी वक्त जेपीसी स्वीकार करती हूं, आप जेपीसी दे दीजिए। इतना ही नहीं कहा, मैंने कहा कि इनका संतोष करने के लिए आप उस जेपीसी में केवल विपक्ष के सांसदों को रखिए, सरकारी पक्ष का एक भी सांसद मत रखिए। यह रिकार्ड भी हमारा है। मैंने यह क्यों कहा था, प्रणब दा, मैंने यह इसलिए कहा था, क्योंकि प्रतिपक्ष की मांग को मान लेना सरकार की कमजोरी नहीं, बल्कि सरकार की परिपक्वता को दर्शाता है। अगर तुंत मांग मान ली जाए तो उस परिपक्वता के साथ गरिमा भी जुड़ जाती है। It does not only demonstrate maturity, it demonstrates magnanimity too. मैं उस समय की कार्रवाई लाई हूं। सबसे पहले मैं यह कहना चाहूंगी कि मैंने स्वयं ऑफर किया कि आप सवाल पूछिए, मैं बोल रही हूं, श्रीमती सुषमा स्वराज, अध्यक्ष जी से मैंने कहा, क्योंकि आपको मालूम है कि जिस समय कोई मंत्री स्टेटमेंट देता है तो लोक सभा में प्रश्न पूछने की इजाजत नहीं है। उस समय पीठासीन स्पीकर ने यह कहा था कि मैं कोई सवाल नहीं पूछने दूंगा तौ मैंने उनसे कहा कि आप इन्हें सवाल पूछने दीजिए। फिर उन्होंने कहा कि मैं दो-तीन सवाल पूछने दूंगा तो मैंने कहा कि आप दो-तीन सवाल मत पूछने दीजिए, जितने मेम्बर्स सवाल पूछना चाहते हैं, मैं उन सबके सवालों का जवाब दूंगी, आप सब को सवाल पूछने दीजिए। उसके बाद उन्होंने जेपीसी की मांग की। उस समय मैंने क्या कहा, सबसे पहले मैं कहना चाहूंगी कि मैंने स्वयं ऑफर किया कि आप सवाल पूछिए, परम्परा से हट कर सवाल पूछे गए। उसके बाद मैंने यह ऑफर किया कि एक-दो या तीन नहीं, जितने सांसद सवाल पूछना चाहें, पूछ सकते हैं। उसके बाद उन्होंने कहा कि इस मामले की जांच के लिए जेपीसी बनाई जाए तो मैंने कहा कि नारा लगाने की जरूरत नहीं है, आप तुंत जेपीसी बनाना चाहते हैं तो बनाएं। मैं ऑफर कर रही हूं कि आप जेपीसी बनाएं और सरकार का कोई व्यक्ति उसमें न रखें, विपक्ष के सदस्य उसमें रहें। श्री रघुवंश प्रसाद जी को उसका अध्यक्ष बनाया जाए, यह मैंने ऑफर किया। जेपीसी में कोई सरकारी पक्ष का सदस्य नहीं होगा, केवल विपक्ष के सदस्यों की जेपीसी बनाएं। नयी परम्परा स्थापित करें, केवल विपक्ष की कमेटी बनाएं, उसमें सरकारी पक्ष का कोई सदस्य नहीं होगा। तब स्पीकर महोदय ने कहा कि सरकारी पक्ष के सदस्य के बिना कमेटी नहीं बनेगी तो मैंने कहा कि आप एक और परम्परा डालिए। अध्यक्ष हमेशा सरकारी पक्ष का होता है, आप अध्यक्ष विपक्ष का बना दीजिए। उस समय श्री शरद पवार जी की अध्यक्षता में जेपीसी गठित हुई थी। आज आपको श्री अरुण जेटली जी की बात याद आ गई, लेकिन इसी हाउस में बनी हुई इस कमेटी की याद आपको नहीं आई, जिस समय मैंने तुंत दो घंटे के अंदर-अंदर जेपीसी का ऐलान किया था। 21 अगस्त को जेपीसी स्वीकार की थी और 22 अगस्त को मैं मोशन लेकर आ गई थी। इसलिए मैं कहना चाहती हूं कि प्रतिपक्ष की मांग ऐसे ही नहीं थी, प्रतिपक्ष की मांग इसलिए थी, क्योंकि भ्रष्टाचार के एक के बाद एक कांड उजागर हो रहे थे। अध्यक्षा जी, मैंने आपसे कहा कि एक-एक कांड पर जे.पी.सी. बनी है, लेकिन इस बार तो 3-3 कांड एक साथ उभरकर आ गये थे और ये कांड जो आये थे, प्रणव दॉ, इसमें आरोप विपक्ष ने नहीं लगाये थे। एक में भी विपक्षी दल ने आरोप नहीं लगाया था। जो संस्था सरकार के लेखे-जोखे की, खाते की जांच करती है, सबसे बड़ी संस्था कंप्ट्रोलर एण्ड ऑडिटर जनरल, यह आरोप उन्होंने लगाया था। सारे के सारे 2जी स्पैक्ट्रम में 1.76 लाख करोड़ का आंकड़ा हमारा गढ़ा हुआ नहीं है। उन्होंने जो चार फार्मूले निकाले, उनमें से एक फार्मूले के तहत उन्होंने यह आंकड़ा निकाला। उसके तहत यह आंकड़ा रखा। सी.डब्लू.जी. का घोटाला सी.ए.जी. की इंटरिम रिपोर्ट से बाहर आया। किसी विपक्षी सदस्य ने आरोप नहीं लगाया। यहां तक कि आदर्श सोसायटी का घोटाला महाराष्ट्र के एकाउंटेंट जनरल ने निकाला। मैं प्रधानमंत्री जी से कहना चाहूंगी, आज वे इसरो देवास डील की बात कर रहे थे। वह घोटाला भी सी.ए.जी. ने निकाला, हमने नहीं निकाला, लेकिन मैं हैरान हूं कि सी.ए.जी. की रिपोर्ट के ऊपर जब आज के सिटिंग मिनिस्टर, दूरसंचार मंत्री यह कहते हैं कि उसमें तो जीरो लॉस हुआ है, जिसको सी.ए.जी. 1.76 लाख करोड़ कहता है, आप कहते हे जीरो लॉस हुआ है, मंत्री जी, तो आपके पूर्व मंत्री जेल के पीछे क्यों बन्द हैं? अगर जीरो लॉस हुआ है तो सी.बी.आई. बार-बार उनका रिमांड क्यों मांग रही थी? मंत्री जी मेरे अपने शहर से आते हैं, मेरे साथ उनके अच्छे स्नेही सम्बन्ध भी हैं, वैसे मेरे खिलाफ चुनाव भी लड़े हैं, लेकिन यह लोकतंत्र में चलता रहता है। मैं आपकी शुभचिन्तिका के नाते, आपकी हितैषी होने के नाते आपको सलाह देना चाहती हूं कि ऐसे प्रसंगों पर मंत्री अगर चुप रहें तो ज्यादा अच्छा होता है और उचित समय पर बोलें तो ठीक रहता है। इस तरह की बातें कहकर आप अपने गले में बेवजह का फंदा डलवाते हैं, जब दो तरफ जांच हो रही है और अब जे.पी.सी. बैठ रही है, जे.पी.सी. दी जा रही है तो आप उससे पहले ही कहते हैं कि जीरो लॉस हुआ है। आपको जो कहना है, आप जे.पी.सी. के सामने जाकर कह दीजिए, दस्तावेज़ ले जाइये, लेकिन आपने यह कहकर सी.ए.जी. की संस्था के सामने प्रश्नचिन्ह खड़ा करने का काम किया। एक संवैधानिक संस्था को अंडरमाइन करने का काम किया। इसलिए अध्यक्षा जी, मैं कहना चाहती हूं कि यह जो जे.पी.सी. बन रही है, यह जे.पी.सी. बहुत असाधारण परिस्थितियों में बन रही है। यह जे.पी.सी साधारण परिस्थिति में नहीं बन रही है। यह जे.पी.सी. केवल एक घोटाले की जांच के लिए नहीं बन रही है। आज देश में एक संकट छाया हुआ है, देश संक्रान्ति काल से गुजर रहा है। कुछ दिन पहले प्रधानमंत्री जी ने एक बहुत बड़ा इश्यू उठाया था, बहुत गम्भीर प्रश्न उठाया था और वह प्रश्न न्यायपालिका की सक्रियता का था। उन्होंने राष्ट्रमंडल की जो विधि कांफ्रेंस हुई थी, लॉ कांफ्रेंस हुई थी, उसमें बोलते हुए कुछ बात कही थी: At the inauguration of 17th Commonwealth Law Conference at Hyderabad, he spoke on 6th February, 2011. जब आपने कहा : श्री कपिल सिब्बल :  उन्होंने अंग्रेजी में कहा था, इसीलिए मैं अंग्रेजी में बात कह रहा हूं। “I am, therefore, here to talk directly to you to whom Parliament and all of us are responsible.”  वाजपेयी जी ने सही कहा कि अगर ऐसी बात, ऐसी चर्चा और ऐसी भ्रष्टाचार की बातें सामने आएं तो सदन में डिस्कशन होना चाहिए। अगर सदन की कार्रवाई को बंद किया जाता है, सदन की कार्यवाही चलने नहीं दी जाती है तो कहां सरकार और सांसद अपनी बात कहें और इसी कारण मैं आपको याद दिलाना चाहता हूं कि माननीय सुषमा जी ने कहा कि जो संवैधानिक अथॉरिटीज हैं, हम उसके खिलाफ पब्लिकली बोलते हैं। मैं समझता हूं कि किसी भी संवैधानिक अथॉरिटी के खिलाफ पब्लिकली बोलना गलत है, ऐसा होना नहीं चाहिए। मुझे याद है कि 1 फरवरी 2002 को तहलका कांड हुआ और उसमें क्या हुआ? उसमें एक पैम्फलेट आर.वी.पंडित साहब ने निकाला और सारे सांसदों को भेजा गया। किसने भेजा, उस समय के डिफेंस मिनिस्टर साहब ने भेजा, पत्र लिखकर भेजा, फ्री भेजा और उसमें क्या लिखा गया - “What does one do when the culprit is the CAG?” 

 मैं सुषमा जी से पूछना चाहता हूं कि आप उस समय मंत्री थीं। आपको ऐसा नहीं लगा कि आपकी सरकार आक्रामक तरीके से सीएजी का उल्लंघन कर रही है।...( व्यवधान) यह बात आपको उस समय महसूस नहीं हुई। ...( व्यवधान) श्री सैयद शाहनवाज़ हुसैन ( भागलपुर ):ये पंडित जी कौन हैं?...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाएं। …( व्यवधान) श्री कपिल सिब्बल : मैं आपको अभी बताऊंगा कि पंडित जी कौन हैं। उस समय सोमनाथ दादा ओपोजिशन में थे। उन्होंने स्पीकर साहब को चिट्ठी लिखी, मैं आपको पढ़ कर सुनाऊंगा, जिससे कि आपको पता चल जाए कि आर.वी. पंडित कौन हैं। उन्होंने कहा - “My office provided Shri Pandit with available documents and also arranged for him to see one of the 150 aluminium cassettes imported by us.” रक्षा मंत्री ने स्वयं सीक्रेट डाक्यूमेंट्स आर.वी. पंडित को दिए और आपको मालूम ही नहीं कि आर.वी. पंडित कौन हैं।...( व्यवधान)। उन्होंने चिट्ठी में लिखा कि “A perusal of the booklet by Shri Pandit reveals a single point agenda to malign the CAG and wide sections of the Press who made critical observations of the Defence establishments.” ये आप कर रहे थे और आपकी सरकार कर रही थी। जार्ज फर्नांडिस साहब एनडीए के कन्वीनर थे।...( व्यवधान) समता पार्टी, गठबंधन सरकार थी।...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप मंत्री जी को बोलने दीजिए। …( व्यवधान) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Madam, they are not allowing me… (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप मंत्री जी की बात सुनिए। …( व्यवधान) श्री कपिल सिब्बल : अगर आप बात नहीं सुनेंगे, तो कैसे बात को समझेंगे।...( व्यवधान)This is not fair… (Interruptions)महोदया, अगर आप हिंदुस्तान का इतिहास देखें, खास तौर से बीजेपी का इतिहास देखें, जब-जब इन्हें मौका मिला कांस्टीटय़ूशनल आथोरिटीज़ पर आक्रमण करने का, तब-तब इन्होंने आक्रमण किया। मैं आपको बताना चाहता हूं कि बेस्ट बेकरी केस में नेशनल ह्यूमन राइट्स कमीशन ने एक पेटिशन सुप्रीम कोर्ट में डाली।...( व्यवधान) तब सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने उस पर टिप्पणी की। “BJP said today that it was perceived – the Commission – as anti-Hindu and a danger to the federal set up.” 

  

जब लिंडो साहब चीफ इलेक्शन कमिश्नर थे और उन्होंने निर्णय किया कि गुजरात में इलेक्शंस को डिले किया जाए तभी उन्होंने लिंडो साहब को बड़े आक्रामक तरीके से उनके बारे में पर्सनल बातें कहीं। इसलिए मेरा कहने का मतलब यह है कि यह सही  है कि हमें कोई आक्रामक तरीका नहीं दिखाना चाहिए। लेकिन अगर आप बीजेपी का आप इतिहास देखें तो बीजेपी हमेशा यही रवैया इस्तेमाल करती रही है।...( व्यवधान) अब इन्होंने कहा...( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing else will go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

MADAM SPEAKER: All this will not go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

श्री कपिल सिब्बल : मैं एक छोटी सी बात कहना चाहता हूं। जो सीएजी की रिपोर्ट है, मैं समझता हूं कि वह बहुत ही महत्वपूर्ण है। 176 करोड़ का आंकड़ा उन्होंने दिया है। उन्होंने अपने तरीके से दिया है। 1,76000 करोड़ का जो आंकड़ा है, उसमें 36,993 करोड़...( व्यवधान)आप अगर मुझे बोलने नहीं देंगे तो डिबेट कैसे चलेगी?...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : कपिल जी, आप इधर एड्रैस करिए। श्री कपिल सिब्बल :  36,993 करोड़...( व्यवधान) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA ( HAZARIBAGH ): Madam, I am on a point of order. MADAM SPEAKER: Which is the rule?  First tell me the rule. SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : This Report of the C&AG is before the PAC.  Does it lie within the jurisdiction of the Minister to discuss the merits of that Report in the House?  This is my point of order.  This is already before a Committee. … (Interruptions) He cannot pronounce on the merits. MADAM SPEAKER: Please sit down. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Show me the rule. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Madam, I am not going into the merits; I want to make it clear that I would not like to say anything on the merits of the CAG report; I just want to give the breakup so that the hon. Members of the Opposition are informed as to what the facts are.  Rs. 36,993 crore is attributed to the spectrum that was given beyond 6.2 MHz.  Now, during the NDA regime – this is in the Report – I am not saying anything; according to the Report… (Interruptions) श्री राजनाथ सिंह ( ग़ाज़ियाबाद ):अध्यक्ष महोदया, बहस जेपीसी पर हो रही है, टू जी स्पैक्ट्रम पर नहीं हो रही है।...( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER: Please sit down. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : The C&AG has himself calculated that spectrum given during the NDA regime beyond 6.2 MHz cost the nation Rs. 12,214 crore.  That is the loss to the revenue that the NDA regime caused according to the C&AG, not according to me.  It is a fact.… (Interruptions) SHRI HARIN PATHAK ( AHMEDABAD EAST ): Are we going to discuss 2G Spectrum or JPC?  हम जेपीसी पर बहस करेंगे। आप जेपीसी पर बोलिए।...( व्यवधान) श्री कपिल सिब्बल : मैं बोल रहा हूं।...( व्यवधान) श्री हरिन पाठक : जब टू-जी स्पेक्ट्रम पर चर्चा करनी है तो जेपीसी क्यों बनाई? ...( व्यवधान) श्री कपिल सिब्बल : आपने भ्रष्टाचार की बात कही इसलिए मैं स्पष्ट करना चाहता हूं।...( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप क्यों खड़े हो गए हैं? …( व्यवधान) श्री कपिल सिब्बल : सीएजी की रिपोर्ट से यह स्पष्ट है कि 12214 करोड़ का घाटा इन लोगों की वजह से हुआ।...( व्यवधान) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : What are we discussing? … (Interruptions) SHRI T.R. BAALU ( SRIPERUMBUDUR ):   Do not be panic.  There is a lot more.  Do not be panic now. … (Interruptions) SHRI HARIN PATHAK : What will these 20 Members in this JPC do? … (Interruptions) SHRI T.R. BAALU :You close the discussion now. Everybody is agreeable for this JPC.  All are agreeable for it. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record except what the hon. Minister is saying. (Interruptions) … * 

अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाइए। …( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER:  Hon. Minister, please speak on the JPC. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: He is speaking on the JPC. … (Interruptions) SHRI T.R. BAALU : Let us wind up this discussion and go for voting.  Why are you being panic? … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाइए। उनको बोलने दीजिए। …( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER:  He is speaking on the JPC only. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

श्री कपिल सिब्बल : भ्रष्टाचार पर बात हो रही है।...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया :  सब बैठ गए हैं। लालू जी, अब आप भी बैठ जाइए। …( व्यवधान) श्री लालू प्रसाद : अध्यक्ष महोदया, मेरा प्रस्ताव है।...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : अभी प्रस्ताव रहने दीजिए, उन्हें बोलने दीजिए। …( व्यवधान) श्री लालू प्रसाद : महोदया, कमेटी का गठन हो गया, एनाउंसमेंट हो गई, कमेटी को जांच करने दीजिए और बहस बंद कीजिए।...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाइए। …( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाइये। …( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाइये। जब आप बैठेंगे, तब वह बैठेंगे। …( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) …* 

अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाइये। …( व्यवधान) श्री लालू प्रसाद : इससे क्या होगा, कमेटी प्रभावित होगी, फेयर नहीं होगा, न्याय नहीं होगा। कमेटी प्रभावित होगी, कोई काम नहीं करेगा।...( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing is going on record. Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) …* 

अध्यक्ष महोदया : कपिल सिबल जी, आप बोलिये। You please address the Chair. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL :  Yes, Madam. I merely wanted to point out that according to the calculations of the C&AG, because Sushma Swaraj Ji asked a question as to why Mr. Raja is in jail if he has not caused loss. So, if the BJP is responsible or the NDA is responsible for the loss, then who should be sent to jail? We must ask them the question. They must tell us. Now, Madam, let me tell you a fact which, probably, this House does not know. Right from 2003 to before the 3G spectrum was auctioned, till that date no company in this country has ever paid for spectrum. No company in this country has ever paid for spectrum.… (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Please just confine to JPC. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Now, they do not want to hear this. You do not want to hear this. That is why, you avoided the debate. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Mr. Baalu, will you please sit down? … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Let me just inform you.… (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Mr. Baalu, please sit down. Please take your seat. … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाइये। … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप क्यों खड़े हैं, आप बैठ जाइये। …( व्यवधान) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Madam, the point that I was making was that if the argument is if Mr. Raja gave spectrum free, he is the criminal. But if their Ministers gave spectrum free, it does not matter. That is the argument that is being made.… (Interruptions) Please understand. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record. Except what the Minister is saying, nothing else will go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

MADAM SPEAKER: Please sit down. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing else will go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

अध्यक्ष महोदया : कपिल सिबल जी, आप बोलिये।   You please address the Chair. … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदया : लालू प्रसाद जी, आप बैठ जाइये। वह यील्ड नहीं कर रहे हैं। Mr. Minister, are you yielding? SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : No. 

MADAM SPEAKER: He is not yielding. You please sit down. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Because some facts have never been brought to the public domain… 

SHRI JASWANT SINGH ( DARJEELING ): Madam Speaker, I am very grateful to the hon. Minister that he has yielded. He is of course perfectly free to say whatever he wishes to and put across to the House and whatever his viewpoint on the subject is. He is a learned Member of the House and he brings a great deal of legal understanding and experience. We are discussing a Motion that has been moved by the hon. Leader of the House. The first item in the Motion is to examine policy prescriptions and their interpretation thereafter by successive governments. I had once in a private conversation with the hon. Leader of the House submitted that let even those days of NDA Government from 1998 be examined. What we are discussing is the contents of this particular Motion moved by the Leader of the House. While moving the Motion the Leader of the House as also the Leader of the Opposition spoke movingly of the total atmosphere of the Parliament and how the previous Session had got debilitated for various reasons. CHAUDHARY LAL SINGH ( UDHAMPUR ): You are responsible. SHRI JASWANT SINGH :I am responsible? Must be. But I personally feel… (Interruptions) No doubt, Madam, I am part of the total community. When an hon. Minister of the UPA most sadly was arrested, somebody asked what my views were. The same Minister had worked with us in NDA. I had then said quite honestly, which I repeat, that I am immensely saddened, I am extremely saddened because if a member of my community to which I belong – and this is the community , to which I belong – is arrested, somehow I am also diminished. This is what the Leader of the House and the Leader of the Opposition have also said. I appeal to the hon. Speaker and the Minister just as a matter of procedure. I am not scoring a point. He alleged that the Government had no chance to comment on the C&AG’s Report. This would be factually incorrect. Because the C&AG procedurally, is required to submit the draft report to the Ministry for their comments before it is made public or even presented to the House. Once the comments on the draft report are received, then the C&AG responds to them also. Therefore, for the hon. Minister to say that he had no chance to comment, is perhaps overstretching the point. He does overstretch. I may appeal to you, Mr. Minister that the Parliament is not a legal body; it is a legislative body. There is a very real but subtle difference between the two.… (Interruptions) If you just let me finish, I will not take your time. Therefore, I appeal to you Madam Speaker that the discussion is on a Motion moved by the Leader of the House. I request you to please keep the discussion limited to that. Of course, the Minister is free to appear before the JPC with whatever charges he has to make and say whatever he wishes to say. But now is not the occasion to do so. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : I am deeply honoured by the advice given by my senior colleague. I would not have brought any of these issues before this House but for the fact that the distinguished Leader of the Opposition deviated from the Motion that was sought to be passed. She talked about the Commonwealth Games, she talked about CVC, she talked about bhrashtachar, she talked about coalition. All that she talked about and that had nothing to do with this Motion. Therefore, I am duty bound to respond. अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाइये। मंत्री जी आप बोलिये। …( व्यवधान) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL :  She attributed to the Prime Minister a statement that the Prime Minister never made. The Prime Minister at no point ever has said that this Government has ever compromised with corruption. At no stage, he has said this. He only talked about the compulsions of coalition politics, like you had. As you remember, the defence portfolio was kept for somebody else. You also know for a fact that the environment portfolio at that time was also given to a coalition partner and he is sitting next to me. During your time, you know very well that the railways portfolio was also given to a coalition partner, who is with us now and was with you then. So, certain portfolios have always been, and these are common to all, given to coalition partners and that is all that the Prime Minister was saying because the Government of the day can decide on what Ministries they want and what Ministries they do not want, but the individual Ministers have to be decided by the coalition partner. That is all that the Prime Minister said and you said that he has said that he compromised with corruption. Is that a fair representation of what the Prime Minister said? I take strong objection to that. I want to put the record straight. Then, you said that I have talked of a zero loss without even reading my statement. What did I say in the statement? I will place  it on the table of this House. I said that the policy of the Government, which was initiated by the NDA and proceeded with by the UPA-I and UPA-II, was that of first-come-first-served. That was the policy - जो आया, उसे दे दो। … (Interruptions) श्री यशवंत सिन्हा :क्या दे दो? श्री कपिल सिब्बल :  जो आये उसे दे दो। ...( व्यवधान) इसकी शुरूआत आपने ही की थी।...( व्यवधान) यह शुरूआत आपने ही की थी।...( व्यवधान) This was the policy of 2003. So, Madam, I said that if this was the policy of the Government, there was no question of an auction. You cannot have a first-come-first-serve policy and also an auction. You can either have a first-come-first-serve policy or an auction. So, the C&AG has presumed that had there been an auction, and then he interpolated 3G prices as 2G prices and said that this is the kind of presumptive loss that would have been caused.   That is what he said, and I said that since the question of auction does not arise and since spectrum … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record except what the hon. Minister says. (Interruptions) … * 

SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : I said that since the question of auction does not arise and since spectrum was always given free, the question of a loss does not arise. That is what I said. … (Interruptions) Now, let me tell you what I said because I have the transcript of what I said. The problem is that this is a nation of sound bite politics. This is what we believe in. I will show you what is it that I said. I said that ‘by analyzing the presumptions of the C&AG, I brought the loss down to Rs. 17,755 crore.’ … (Interruptions) Then, I said … (Interruptions) श्री नीरज शेखर ( बलिया ):वे जेल में क्यों हैं? आप यह बताइये।...( व्यवधान) श्री कपिल सिब्बल :  मैं अभी बताता हूं। Madam, what did I say? I brought down the so-called loss by assumptions that we made to Rs. 17,755 crore. Then I said ‘but actually the loss is nil’ and I will tell you how. What was allocated was 4.4 MHz as start up spectrum for which there was no charge – neither in 1999, nor in 2001, nor in 2003, nor in 2005, nor in 2007 and nor in 2010. The TRAI’s recommendation throughout – in October 2003, 2005, 2007 and on May 11, 2010 – says right from 1999 that 4.4 MHz is start up spectrum. It comes bundled with the licence. That is what happened in 2007 also that 4.4 MHz of spectrum was given to every licenceee, which was bundled with the licence. Nobody ever charged for it right from 2003 to 2007. So, the question of loss does not arise because there was no question of an auction. It is because there is no question of auction. What is wrong with it? … (Interruptions) The Leader of the Opposition said that : “I had said Nil loss”. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Do not drive the JPC. … (Interruptions) श्री गणेश सिंह ( सतना ):इतना बड़ा स्कैन्डल हुआ है और ये कहते हैं कि कुछ हुआ ही नहीं है। ...( व्यवधान) श्री निशिकांत दुबे : मेरा पॉइंट ऑफ आर्डर है। ...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप रूल नंबर और पेज नंबर बताइए। …( व्यवधान) श्री निशिकांत दुबे : यह कॉल एंड शकधर के पेज नंबर 964, पैरा नं. 2 पर है। It states : “Where allegations are made in the House against a particular political party, the leader or the Chief Whip of that Party or Group in the House is permitted to make a statement in regard thereto…” 

अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप रूल नंबर और पेज नंबर बताइए। …( व्यवधान) SHRI NISHIKANT DUBEY : It is on page no. 964, paragraph two from Kaul and Shakdher. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : If he is trying to level allegations, then he has to give advance notice. … (Interruptions) SHRI NISHIKANT DUBEY : Yes. It states : “Where allegations are made in the House against a particular political party …” … (Interruptions) SHRI GURUDAS DASGUPTA ( GHATAL ): If everything is right, then why did you form the JPC? … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL :  I have never said it. I have quoted from the transcript. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Madam, I will request the Leader of the House to take back his Resolution. We do not want it. … (Interruptions) It is not a charity that they are giving us. It is not charity. … (Interruptions) क्या हम लोग यहाँ पर भीख मांग रहे हैं? SHRI NISHIKANT DUBEY : He is making an allegation against a political party. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : We do not want this JPC. … (Interruptions) कोई मतलब नहीं है।...( व्यवधान) The present Minister has already come to the conclusion. … (Interruptions) SHRI NISHIKANT DUBEY : He cannot speak like this. … (Interruptions) श्री निशिकांत दुबे : महोदया, लोक सभा डिबेट्स 11.2.1967 में स्पीकर की यह रूलिंग है। 11 फरवरी, 1967 को डिबेट हुई थी और स्पीकर की यह रूलिंग है कि किसी भी पोलिटिकल पार्टी के खिलाफ आप कोई एलिगेशन नहीं लगा सकते हैं बिना किसी जानकारी के या परमीशन के। जब स्पीकर उसको अप्रूव करेंगे, तभी वह माना जाएगा। यह 11 फरवरी, 1967 की रूलिंग है। SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : Madam, I would like to request the hon. Members that this is a consensus Motion. Myself and the Leader of the Opposition just explained the background as to what happened before it. A lot of background work was done before taking this initiative, and a lot of consultations took place. Therefore, in that context we explained that this should not be repeated, namely, the unfortunate event that happened during the Winter Session. Hence, we collectively decided to bring this Motion for adoption because it is technically required. The House can express its decision on a substantive Motion, and the normal practice is that it is being adopted with a very short discussion only. There is no scope of any elaborate debate or discussion on this. But unfortunately, it has happened. Therefore, my request to all the hon. participants would be that they should talk about the JPC itself and also its Terms of Reference. SHRIMATI SUSHMA SWARAJ ( VIDISHA ): Let Shri Kapil Sibal know that. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL :  I deeply respect what the Leader of the House has stated. The reason why I said what I said was because I wanted to place before the House as to why the BJP did not want a debate. Had there been a debate, all that I have said would have been before you. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Now, I give the floor to Shri Rewati Raman Singh. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Therefore, I commend this Motion to the House, and I thank the hon. Speaker for allowing me to intervene.… (Interruptions) श्री आर.के.िंसह पटेल ( बांदा ): माननीय अध्यक्ष महोदया, पिछड़ी जातियों की जनगणना का क्या हुआ? इन घोटालों में वह दबी जा रही है...( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप बैठ जाइए। …( व्यवधान) श्री रेवती रमण सिंह ( इलाहाबाद ):अध्यक्ष महोदया, मैं आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं कि आपने इस महत्वपूर्ण प्रस्ताव पर बोलने के लिए अनुज्ञा दी है। महोदया, आज इस सदन में एक महत्वपूर्ण बिन्दु पर एक प्रस्ताव आया है। जेपीसी के गठन के बारे में सरकार ने घोषणा की है, लेकिन उस पर जो बहस होने लगी है, वह हम समझ नहीं पा रहे हैं। हमारी बुद्धि में नहीं आ पा रहा था कि क्या बहस हो रही है? जेपीसी की जांच होने के बाद यह चर्चा होती, तब तो ठीक लगता। अब ये कह रहे हैं कि ये नहीं होना चाहिए। ये उसको कह रहे हैं, इन्होंने कहा है। भाजपा और कांग्रेस के लोग इसके ऊपर नूरा कुश्ती कर रहे हैं। कह रहे हैं कि वहां इन्होंने घपला किया, ये कह रहे हैं, उन्होंने घपला किया। घपला किसने किया, जेपीसी जांच करेगी। पीएसी में भी जांच हो रही है। मंत्री जी सफाई दे रहे हैं। 15.43 hrs. 

(Shri Francisco Cosme Sardinha in the Chair) 

          मंत्री जी, मैं आपसे एक आग्रह करूंगा, आप सीएजी रिपोर्ट पर सहमत थे या नहीं थे, लेकिन आपको सार्वजनिक रूप से एक संवैधानिक संस्था पर हमला नहीं बोलना चाहिए था। आपने हमला बोलकर मर्यादा को भंग करने का काम किया है। आप अभी कोट कर रहे थे कि उधर के लोगों ने भी किया है। किया है तो क्या वही गलत काम आप भी करेंगे? इस तरह की बात आपको सार्वजनिक रूप से नहीं करनी चाहिए। यह मेरा आपसे आग्रह है कि जो संवैधानिक संस्थाएं हैं, उन पर किसी भी पार्टी को हमला करने का कोई औचित्य नहीं है। महोदय, प्रणव दादा ने कहा कि अभी हमारे पड़ोसी देश में जो हुआ, कहीं उसका रिपीटेशन यहां न हो जाए। भारत को आजाद हुए आज 63 साल हो गए हैं और उसका रिपीटिशन इस देश में कभी नहीं हो सकता है। यहां प्रजातंत्र की जड़ें गांव से लेकर दिल्ली की संसद तक बहुत गहरी हैं। आपने पड़ोसी देश का हवाला दे दिया। लेकिन उस पड़ोसी देश में प्रजातंत्र था ही नहीं। वहां पर अगर मिलिट्री ने वैसा किया तो वह स्वाभाविक था। आज भी वहां प्रजातांत्रिक तरीके से सरकार बनी है, लेकिन अभी भी वहां असली पावर मिलिट्री के पास है। मिलिट्री जो चाहती है, वही उन्हें करना पड़ता है। आप कितना भी प्रोटेस्ट करें, आपकी बात को न मानने का कारण यही है। आप इतने सीनियर एवं अनुभवी आदमी है, पार्लियामेंट नहीं चली तो आपने यह बोल दिया कि वैसा खतरा यहां भी पैदा हो सकता है, यह बात अच्छी नहीं लगी। ...( व्यवधान) प्रणब दा ने यह बोला।...( व्यवधान) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I did not say that here it would happen. What I said was: “Historically, it is true that when democratic institutions fail to function, extra-constitutional authority may come.” I did not say that here, there would be military rule. श्री रेवती रमण सिंह : प्रणब दा, जिस बात की पहले दिन से पूरा विपक्ष मांग कर रहा था, उसे अगर आपने मान लिया होता तो इसकी चर्चा गांव-गांव में न होती। कल श्री मुलायम सिंह जी ने इस हाउस में कहा कि इसकी चर्चा अब गांव-गांव में हो चुकी है कि 2जी स्पैक्ट्रम क्या है। पहले कोई जानता ही नहीं था कि 2जी स्पैक्ट्रम क्या है, लेकिन आज लोग जान गए हैं। जेपीसी नहीं बन रही है, 2जी स्पैक्ट्रम क्या है, टेलीफोन का कोई घोटाला है। गांव तक में यह बात पता चल गई है। इतने दिन तक जो टाइम वेस्ट हुआ, आपने माना, देर आए, दुरुस्त आए। अगर इसी बात को आपने पहले मान लिया होता, इतने दिन तक जो विंटर सैशन नहीं चला, आप कहते हैं कि अपोजिशन की जिम्मेदारी है, लेकिन कोई भी सरकार हो, चाहे आपकी हो या इधर के लोगों की रही हो, जिम्मेदारी सब की होती है। सरकार, सरकार होती है, सरकार की जिम्मेदारी अपोजिशन से ज्यादा होती है। आपने अपने दायित्व का निर्वहन नहीं किया और दायित्व का निर्वहन न करने की वजह से आप जो दोष अपोजिशन पर मंडना चाहते हैं, वह उचित नहीं है। उसमें आप भी सहभागी हैं और ज्यादा जिम्मेदारी आपकी थी। कई दिन तक विंटर सैशन नहीं चला। जेपीसी चार बार पहले भी बनाई जा चुकी है, आप यह कोई नयी नहीं बना रहे हैं। जेपीसी बनने से कोई आसमान नहीं गिर पड़ता और न ही गिरेगा। जांच होगी और जांच होने के बाद जो दोषी होंगे, उनके खिलाफ कार्यवाही होगी, इतना ही होगा। उसमें कोई चार्ज नहीं लगा रहा था, ये भारत के इतिहास में पहली बार हुआ है कि किसी केन्द्रीय मंत्री को जेल जाना पड़ा। ये मामूली बात नहीं है। हमारे संसदीय इतिहास में किसी देश में इस तरह की घटना नहीं घटी, कम से कम भारत में, कि किसी केन्द्रीय मंत्री को इस्तीफा देना पड़े और जेल जाना पड़े। सभापति महोदय, मैं आपके माध्यम से कहना चाहता हूं, यह जरूर है कि आज जो हम संसद में करते हैं, उसका सीधा असर आम जनता पर पड़ता है। आज किसी भी नेता के बारे में आम जनता में अच्छी राय नहीं है। उसका कारण हम लोग स्वयं हैं, हमने अपनी मर्यादा खुद गिराई है। ये सदन संविधान, मर्यादा या परम्पराओं से चलता है, जो परम्परा पहले बनी है, जो मर्यादाएं हैं, उसी पर यह सदन चलता है। अगर ये मर्यादा और परम्परा पहले थी तथा संविधान में यह प्रदत्त है तो फिर इसे पहले बनाने में आपको क्या दिक्कत थी? आपने जेपीसी बनाई, इसका मैं स्वागत करता हूं। अगर आपने यह काम पहले कर दिया होता तो आज जिस परिस्थिति में इतनी कटुता पैदा हो गई, वह नहीं होती। लेकिन मैं इतना जरूर कहूंगा कि आगे कटुता न पैदा करिए। मैं इनसे और आपसे भी आग्रह करूंगा कि संसद को चलने दीजिए 

आप बहस होने दीजिए। यह संसद बहस करने के लिए ही बनी है, अपनी बात कहने के लिए ही बनी है, चाहे विपक्ष कहे, चाहे पक्ष कहे, ये सदन में अपनी बात कहें। यह सदन इसलिए नहीं बना है कि यहां पर आरोप-प्रत्यारोप हम एक दूसरे पर लगायें, कीचड़ उछालें, यह काम सदन में नहीं होना चाहिए। मर्यादा के भीतर ही बात कहनी चाहिए, चाहे हम हों, चाहे आप हों। मैं आपसे आग्रह करूंगा कि जो लालू जी ने कहा कि जब जे.पी.सी. का गठन हो गया, एक प्रस्ताव आया और अब गठन हो जायेगा तो उस पर आज चर्चा क्यों हो रही है, जब जे.पी.सी. की रिपोर्ट आ जाये, तब आप इस पर चर्चा कराते। आज चर्चा का औचित्य क्या है, यह हमको समझ में नहीं आ रहा है। जब जे.पी.सी. की रिपोर्ट आये, उस पर चर्चा कराइये और सभी मैम्बरों को उसमें बोलने का मौका मिल पाये, तब तो आपकी बात ठीक लगती है। मैं इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ जे.पी.सी. के गठन का समर्थन करता हूं। श्री लालू प्रसाद : हमको बुलवाइये न, हमको ट्रेन पकड़नी है।...( व्यवधान) श्री दारा सिंह चौहान ( घोसी ): आपकी ट्रेन तो छूट गई। माननीय सभापति जी, आपने मुझे प्रणव दॉ के महत्वपूर्ण प्रस्ताव पर बोलने का अवसर दिया, जिस सवाल को लेकर काफी देर से दोनों तरफ से चर्चा हो रही है। मैं देख रहा था, जो हंगामा खड़ा हुआ, इसका औचित्य मुझे समझ में नहीं आ रहा था। चूंकि घोटाले को लेकर जो संसद में गतिरोध कायम था...( व्यवधान)  घोटाले को लेकर संसद में पिछले सत्र में जो गतिरोध कायम था, उस गतिरोध को खत्म करने के लिए...( व्यवधान) श्री लालू प्रसाद : नहीं, महोदय, इनका कमेटी में नाम है, ये चर्चा में पार्टीसिपेट कैसे कर रहे हैं। यह बेकार की बात है। आप दूसरों को बुलवाइये।...( व्यवधान) श्री दारा सिंह चौहान : हम इस पर बोल सकते हैं।...( व्यवधान) श्री लालू प्रसाद : नहीं बोल सकते।...( व्यवधान) श्री दारा सिंह चौहान : सभापति जी, यह जांच का विषय नहीं है...( व्यवधान)  संसद में जो गतिरोध कायम था, उसको खत्म करने के लिए लोकसभा अध्यक्ष और सदन के नेता माननीय प्रणव दॉ ने कई बार काफी प्रयास किया कि गतिरोध को खत्म कर दिया जाये और प्रस्ताव भी माननीय नेता सदन की तरफ से आया कि इस पर विस्तार से चर्चा हो जाये कि जे.पी.सी. का गठन होगा या नहीं होगा। चूंकि घोटाले तो बहुत हुए...( व्यवधान) श्री लालू प्रसाद : यह मामला अब आपके अंडर आ गया।...( व्यवधान) श्री दारा सिंह चौहान : मैं जांच की बात नहीं कर रहा हूं।...( व्यवधान) श्री लालू प्रसाद : अब यह आपके अंडर आ गया, now you are the judge....( व्यवधान) श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव ( मैनपुरी ):माननीय लालू जी ने एक सवाल उठाया। आप उस पर रूलिंग दीजिए कि जे.पी.सी. में जिसका नाम है, अभी तक यह परम्परा रही ही कि वह भाषण नहीं देता है। इनका नाम जे.पी.सी. में है, ये भाषण कैसे दे सकते हैं, आप इस पर रूलिंग दीजिए, बताइये, व्यवस्था दीजिए। ...( व्यवधान) श्री लालू प्रसाद : ये इस पर कैसे बोलेंगे?...( व्यवधान) श्री दारा सिंह चौहान : मैं यह कह रहा था कि जब नेता सदन ने चर्चा करानी चाही तो लोग इस पर चर्चा करने को तैयार नहीं हुए, लेकिन आज मैं देख रहा हूं कि जब जे.पी.सी. का गठन हो गया, आपने एनाउंस कर दिया तो फिर इतनी लम्बी चर्चा का मुझे मतलब नहीं समझ में आ रहा है। ठीक है, प्रस्ताव जरूर हुआ, उसका अनुमोदन करने की जरूरत थी, लेकिन चार घंटे तक इस पर बहस में हिस्सा लिया जाये, यह औचित्य मुझे समझ में नहीं आ रहा है, इसलिए मैं चाहता हूं कि गठन को लेकर तमाम सारे सवाल उठे हैं। अब मैं गम्भीरता से यह सवाल उठाना चाहता हूं कि इसमें किसी की हार-जीत का सवाल नहीं है। मेरी पार्टी का मानना है कि जे.पी.सी. का गठन हो गया तो किसी की हार और जीत का सवाल नहीं है, बल्कि जनहित और देशहित में गम्भीरता से काम करने की जरूरत है। मैं बस इतना ही कहना चाहूंगा। … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : No comments please. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please speak when you get your time. … (Interruptions) श्री शरद यादव ( मधेपुरा ):सभापति जी, जो प्रस्ताव आया है, उसके समर्थन में खड़ा हुआ हूं। प्रणव बाबू ने ...( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN: Hon. Members, please maintain silence. Please do not disturb. … (Interruptions) श्री दारा सिंह चौहान : औचित्य का जो सवाल खड़ा हो रहा है कि कोई मेंबर इस पर बोल ही नहीं सकता। ...( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please continue your speech. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please sit down. … (Interruptions) श्री शरद यादव : बोल सकते हैं। ...( व्यवधान) श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव : मुझे बोलने से रोका गया था।  ...( व्यवधान) श्री शरद यादव : यह सही नहीं है।  कोई भी बोल सकता है।  उस पर बहस नहीं हो रही है। श्री शैलेन्द्र कुमार : माननीय सभापाति महोदय, इस पर फैसला पीठ की ओर से आना चाहिए।  आप व्यवस्था दीजिए।  ...( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please sit down. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please address the Chair and start your speech. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please do not disturb him. … (Interruptions) श्री शरद यादव : प्रणव बाबू ने इसमें जो सवाल छेड़े हैं, उनके बारे में मुझे कुछ कहना है।  मैं मानता हूं कि राज्य की विधानसभाओं में हालात डिटीरियोरेट हुए हैं, खराब हुए हैं।  लेकिन जो लोकसभा है, संसद है, इसमें वर्षोंवर्ष हमने देखा है कि इन सारे मामलों पर चाहे प्रणव बाबू की पार्टी हो या हमारी पार्टी हो, क्योंकि यह सौ करोड़ लोगों की सभा है और इसमें बेचैनी बाकायदा रेफलेक्ट होती है।  इसका कारण है कि क्षेत्रीय पार्टियां बढ़ गयी हैं।  कल ही यहां तेलंगाना मुद्दे पर सदन स्थगित हो गया। जेपीसी के गठन की जो बात है, मैं मानता हूं कि बहुत अच्छी तरह से विस्तारपूर्वक हमारे और आपके बीच में इस संबंध में 

बहस हुयी।  अभी कपिल सिब्बल जी कह रहे थे कि हम इस पर हम नहीं बोल पाए, लेकिन जितनी इस पर बहस हुयी, उतनी किसी और चीज पर नहीं हुयी।  हो सकता है कि इस पर सदन में बहस न हुयी हो, लेकिन सदन के बाहर बहुत विस्तार से बहस हुयी।  मैं उस बहस पर नहीं जाना चाहता हूं।  जब रिपोर्ट आ जाएगी, तब उस पर बहस हो, तो ज्यादा ठीक है।  मैं इतना ही कहूंगा कि लोकतंत्र में इस सदन में जनता के सवालों को लेकर लड़ाई होती है।  प्रणव बाबू तीन-चार मीटिंग आपने कीं, आपने प्रयास किया लेकिन चार बार की मीटिंग में आप चुप ही बैठे रहे।  आपने हमारी सारी बातों की टोटलिटी में कह दिया कि हम आपकी बात नहीं मानते हैं।  उसके चलते भी देश की जनता में इसकी चर्चा हुयी, बहस हुयी।  सुषमा जी और आपने जो बहस चलायी, इस पर कपिल सिब्बल जी बोल रहे थे और वह इस बहस को पूरी तरह से जेपीसी के मुद्दे पर ही ले आए।  उन्होंने ऐसी-ऐसी बातें कह दीं, जो वाजिब नहीं हैं।  वह मान रहे हैं कि यह हाई कोर्ट या सुप्रीम कोर्ट का चैम्बर है। यह राजनीति है।  आपने कई तरह से काम किए हैं, जो आपको नहीं करने चाहिए थे। 16.00 hrs. 

आप मंत्री हैं। जब जेपीसी की डिबेट आएगी तब आप उसे जरूर अपने सदस्यों को दे सकते हैं और यहां खुद बोल सकते हैं। लेकिन उससे पहले आपने जो बहुत सी बातें कही हैं, वे वाजिब नहीं हैं। हो सकता है कि आप जो कह रहे हैं, भ्रष्टाचार बिल्कुल नहीं हुआ।...( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN : Hon. Members, please address the Chair. … (Interruptions) श्री शरद यादव : मैं आपसे निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि आपके जो तर्क हैं, उससे सरकार के तर्क खराब होते हैं। एक मंत्री का इस्तीफा हो गया है। केस चल रहा है और वे जेल चले गए हैं। अगर आपको इस बात पर यकीन और विश्वास है, तो आपको इस्तीफा दे देना चाहिए कि नहीं, यह ठीक नहीं हुआ। प्रणब बाबू, मैं आपसे कहूंगा कि लोक सभा में निरंतर बहस इतनी ज्यादा हुई है, जिसका अंदाजा नहीं हो सकता। कुछ लोगों का मत है कि राजनीतिक लोगों की साख बहुत गिर गई है, लेकिन मैं मानता हूं कि इस बार सरकार का इकबाल घटा है। अगर आप जेपीसी की मांग पहले मान गए होते तो आपका इकबाल ज्यादा बड़ा होता। लेकिन अच्छा हुआ कि आप देर से माने। इससे हमें लाभ है। हमें देश को समझाने का मौका मिला। भ्रष्टाचार सिर्फ 2जी स्पैक्ट्रम में नहीं है, पूरा देश तबाह है। कदम-कदम पर लूटने वाले लोग हैं, कदम-कदम पर भ्रष्टाचार फैला हुआ है। जब लड़ाई होती है तब किसी न किसी को पकड़ना होता है। उसी में 2जी स्पैक्ट्रम सीएजी के चलते मुद्दा बन गया। वैसे हमने इसे पहले तीन बार उठाया। हमने इसे गहराई से पढ़ा है।  आपका बयान भी बहुत गहराई से पढ़ा है। उसकी ध्वनि में यही निकलता है कि कोई ऐसी बात नहीं हुई। प्रणब बाबू यहां बैठे हुए हैं। जब श्री बालू ने कहा कि यह जांच वर्ष 1998 से होनी चाहिए, हम पहले व्यक्ति थे जिसने कहा कि कीजिए। उस सरकार में हम लोग भी थे यानी हमारी नीयत यह है कि भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ एक कारगर लड़ाई हो जिसमें आप और हम सब शरीक हों। इसलिए यह मामला 2जी  स्पैक्ट्रम का नहीं है, पूरे देश में भ्रष्टाचार जम गया है। आपने कहा कि सौ दिन में विदेशी पैसे वापिस ले आएंगे। दिक्कतें हैं, नहीं हो पाया, लेकिन उसकी बहस चली गई। मैं आपसे यही कहूंगा कि आपने जेपीसी की जो मांग मानी है, इसमें आपने उदारता दिखाई है।...( व्यवधान) मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि यदि इसमें सीडब्ल्यूजी भी रख लेते तब भी देश का बहुत हित होता। प्रणब बाबू, मैं एक बात और कहना चाहता हूं। सुषमा जी ठीक कह रही थीं कि हमने सदन बंद कर दिया, हमने कर दिया या आपने कर दिया, उस बात को छोड़ दीजिए। 2जी स्पैक्ट्रम  को कोर्ट ने अपने हाथ में ले लिया है, वह जांच कर रही है। उसमें हमारा और आपका कोई हाथ नहीं है। कोर्ट ने कह दिया है कि हम देखेंगे। वह डंडा लेकर बैठी तब कहीं 2जी स्पैक्ट्रम वाले मामले में गिरफ्तारियां हुईं और काम तेजी से बढ़ा। मैं मानता हूं कि सीडब्ल्यूजी के बारे में सरकार ने कार्य किया। लेकिन सरकार में एक व्यक्ति कह रहा है कि मेरा 5 प्रतिशत शेयर था, बाकी लोगों का 95 प्रतिशत है। मैं आपसे यही निवेदन करूंगा कि यदि आपने टर्म्स ऑफ रैफरैंस, ये संस्थाएं पूरी तरह से कमजोर हो रही हैं। मैं मानता हूं कि आज चुनाव आयोग मजबूत है। बीच-बीच में अदालतें लड़खड़ाई थीं, लेकिन आज जो अदालत है, वह सक्रिय है और किसी दौर में भी स्वतंत्र रही है। अच्छा किया या बुरा किया, मैं नहीं कह रहा। वह स्वतंत्र रही हैं। हमारे पास कई संस्थाएं हैं, जैसे सीबीआई है। सीबीआई जब कोर्ट के दायरे में आ गयी, तो कैसे बढ़िया काम कर रही है। क्या कारण है कि जब आपके पास थी, आपने बहुत पहले से इंक्वायरी करा कर रखी है। आपने सीबीआई के हाथ में यह काम बहुत दिनों से सौंप रखा है। पहले ऐसी तेजी क्यों नहीं आयी? कोर्ट के हाथ में आने से कैसे तेजी आ गयी? इसलिए जो जांच एजेंसी है, उसकी स्वायत्ता के मामले में भी टर्म्स ऑफ रेफरैंस होनी चाहिए। जो संस्थाएं कमजोर हो रही हैं, प्रणब बाबू, आप रहें, चाहे हम रहें, उनको मजबूत करने का कोई रास्ता होना चाहिए। इसमें नहीं करना है, तो फिर से सबको बुलाकर कोई रास्ता निकालिए। 16.06 hrs. 

(Dr. Girija Vyas in the Chair) 

           सभापति महोदया, अभी सीवीसी का मामला था। दो-तीन सीवीसी बहुत बढ़िया थे। अब थॉमस साहब हटने को तैयार नहीं हैं। वे न आपका कहना मान रहे हैं और न ही हमारा कहना मान रहे हैं। वह बैठ गये हैं और उन्हें हम हटा नहीं सकते, ऐसी हालत है। तीन आदमी क्यों रखे गये थे? वे आम सहमति के लिए थे। मैं इस बारे में ज्यादा नहीं कहना चाहता। मैं केवल इतना ही कहना चाहता हूं कि इसमें जो टर्म्स ऑफ रेफरैंसेज हैं, वे 2जी के हैं। जांच की संस्थाओं के बारे में कोई इंतजाम करें। यह लूट कोई दिल्ली भर में नहीं हो रही है, स्टेट्स में भी लूट हो रही है। आजकल जमीन में सबसे ज्यादा घपला हो रहा है। सारे एनसीआर की तीन लाख हैक्टेयर जमीन चली गयी है। आज सबसे ज्यादा भ्रष्टाचार जमीन में हो रहा है यानी जमीन के सौदों में हो रहा है। 2जी स्पेक्ट्रम एक तरह से ऐसा कदम हो जाये कि भ्रष्टाचार के ऊपर एक हल्ला बोल हो जाये। यह राजनीतिक लोगों के ऊपर नहीं है। कुछ लोग कह रहे हैं कि राजनीतिक लोगों की साख बहुत घट गयी है। मैं इस बात को नहीं मानता हूं। इस सदन में 90 फीसदी वे लोग हैं जो दर्द और सच्चाई से भरे हुए हैं। हां, इनको चारों तरफ बदनाम  करने का खेल चला हुआ है। चाहे कॉरपोरेट्स हों या आपका इलैक्ट्रानिक मीडिया हो, वह कभी-कभी अच्छा काम करता है, लेकिन यह काम बहुत बुरा करता है। वह जरा सी बात को बहुत विस्तार से बताता है। मैं इसमें केवल इतना ही निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि 2जी स्पेक्ट्रम आपके रिज़ीम में, आप लीडर हैं, आपकी सरकार है, आपके जमाने में ऐसा कदम उठ जाये, कि न तेरी रहे और न मेरी रहे। ऐसा कदम उठ जाये कि भ्रष्टाचार करने वाले को लगे कि अब खैर नहीं है, अब आगे नहीं चलेगा। इसके टर्म्स ऑफ रेफरैंस में यह जरूर होना चाहिए। भारत की जो संस्थाएं कमजोर हो रही हैं, वे आप कर रहे हैं, हम  कर रहे हैं या राजनीति कर रही है, लेकिन उन संस्थाओं को मजबूत होना चाहिए। अब ब्यूरोक्रेट्स हैं, ज्युडिशियरी है, मीडिया है, हम लोगों को छोड़कर कोई भी अकाउंटेबल नहीं है। पार्लियामैंट के मैम्बर्स अकाउंटेबल हैं, मिनिस्टर्स अकाउंटेबल हैं और कोई अकाउंटेबल नहीं है। प्रणब बाबू, आप सिर पर हाथ धर कर बैठे हैं। यह नहीं चलेगा। सब फ्री हैं, आजाद हैं। अगर 2जी स्पेक्ट्रम नहीं होता तो कॉरपोरेट वाले हम लोगों का जीना मुश्किल कर देते। कपिल सिब्बल जी, ये कारपोरेट्स हैं, इनको थोड़ा सा बुला-बुलाकर, डुबो-डुबो कर ठीक कीजिए । थोड़ा-बहुत चंदा देकर इनका दिमाग और माथा खराब हो गया है। लोगों ने इनको चुना है यानी राज इनको करना चाहिए।...( व्यवधान) मानव संसाधन विकास मंत्री तथा संचार और सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी मंत्री (श्री कपिल सिब्बल):  वर्ष 2003 से ये बड़ा चंदा दे रहे हैं। ...( व्यवधान) श्री शरद यादव : जी हां। आप जानते हैं कि सब चंदा चवन्नी दे रहे हैं और खा रहे हैं अरबों रुपये। सभापति महोदया :  यादव साहब, आपका समय पूरा हो गया है। श्री शरद यादव :  इसलिए मैं कहूंगा कि टर्म्स ऑफ रेफरैंस में, प्रणब बाबू, आप उस्ताद आदमी हैं, इस बारे में कोई नतीजा, तरीका निकालिए। जो संस्थाएं कमजोर हो रही हैं, उनको मजबूत किए बगैर 2जी स्पेक्ट्रम पर बहस हो जाएगी, लेकिन आगे कुछ होने वाला नहीं है। आपने एक अच्छा कदम उठाया है, एक मोर्चे पर आप सफल हुए हैं, लेकिन अभी सीडब्ल्यूजी है, आदर्श सोसाइटी घोटाला है, पूरे देश में रेल और फौज की जमीन बेची जा रही है। ...( व्यवधान) मैं इन्हीं बातों को साथ अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। महोदया, इसके साथ ही मेरा अनुरोध है कि आप कानून के अंदर, रूलिंग के अंतर्गत जो लोग जेपीसी में आ गए हैं, क्या वे इस पर बोल सकते हैं या नहीं, वह नियम भी एनाउंस कर दें। SHRI SUDIP BANDYOPADHYAY ( KOLKATA UTTAR ): Madam Chairman, I rise to support the Motion for appointment of a Joint Committee.  It will examine policy prescriptions and their interpretation thereafter by successive Governments, including decisions of the Union Cabinet and the consequences thereof, in the allocation and pricing of telecom licenses and spectrum from 1998 to 2009; it will examine irregularities and aberrations, if any, and the consequences thereof in the implementation of the Government decisions and policy prescriptions from 1998 to 2009; and it will make recommendations to ensure formulation of appropriate procedures for implementation of laid-down policy in the allocation and pricing of telecom licences. I had the privilege to attend all the meetings of the leaders of political parties which were called by the Leader of the House, Shri Pranab Mukherjee at least thrice and by the hon. Speaker twice. At that time it was discussed that this proposal for a JPC be tabled on the floor of the House and I particularly said in the meetings that let us hear Shrimati Sushma Swaraj, who is a very good orator, and Shri Pranab Mukherjee, and then a decision be taken about the formation of the JPC.  Ultimately, it was not accepted and the whole Winter Session was disrupted.  It is a matter of shock which would haunt us every moment.  But ultimately with the intervention of the hon. Prime Minister, it has come up. We should know that the total number of telephones now operating in the country is more than 723 millions.  In the targeted plan, the target was 600 millions to be achieved by 2012.  But that has been already achieved.  It is due to tough competition.  The competition that exists is so tough that automatically corruption will take place in such cases.  So, the question of corruption has come up. We are the second largest partner of the UPA-II Government. We want to assure that as a partner of the Government or as an ally, we will not ever be the cause of embarrassment to the Government so far as corruption is concerned.  We are firm believers in the principles of honesty and transparency, basing upon which the Trinamool Congress was born and we are proceeding with our head high always. We do not want to take anything with the Government though we are the partners.  We want to contribute our ideas at a small level according to our capacity to strengthen the UPA-II Government. So, as a partner, we want to make it clear on the floor of the House that we never became the causes of embarrassment to the Government at any stage or at any level nor even we want to make it so. Madam Chairman when this JPC will be set up and the 2G scam issue will be taken up, we have a very few proposals which can be taken as terms of references. The hon. Member, whom we have nominated to the Committee, will certainly go and place them before the Committee. The major issue can be placed on record.  We want to submit it here to be taken into consideration for induction in the terms of reference.  The spectrum which was allocated at vastly under-valued prices and some companies seem to have an inside track on its development. In addition, the decision not to auction 2G spectrum and to maintain the same entry fee since 2001. This is one of the major issues which have been transpired. My second suggestion is on the causes for alleged revenue loss by the above decision. Third comes the point on the alleged advancement of the cut-off date for receipt of applications and the grant of licence to ineligible applicants. So, these are the few issues which we, at the primary stage, want to keep on record that this can be taken up in the terms of reference when the Committee will start functioning. Madam, we fully believe that though it is late, yet we were totally in favour of formation of a JPC. Even in the meetings of the All-Parties’ Leader Forum, we categorically said that the Trinamool Congress, as a Party, is a very transparent Party and our approach is always to expose the corruption.  What is bad is said to be bad.  We do not want to go for any compromise with any types of corruptions initiated by any party or any person at any level. Madam, one person may be bad for which a total political party cannot be blamed as a corrupt party.  Sometimes, mistake of one individual can cause damage to a total political party. So, in any way, it is to be taken into consideration and the JPC’s purpose should not be that those who are representing from the Opposition will only try to catch the Government and the Government will try to only hide all the faults and all the charges of corruption in a negative manner.  That should not be allowed to be held.   Let the investigation move with transparency and with very open mind and let the truth come out.  We believe that this should be a precedent and this JPC should create some examples in the history of parliamentary democracy by which people will really realise that formation and functioning of JPC can certainly produce some results. That can enlighten and can give relief and benefit to the common people of the country.  Let this country feel that the Parliament has positively played a major role when such types of vital and crucial issues come up for the interests of the people. We fully endorse the announcement of the JPC in connection with the Ministry of Communication. SHRI T.K.S. ELANGOVAN ( CHENNAI NORTH ):  Madam Chairman thank you very much for permitting to speak on the Motion for appointment of a Joint Committee to go into various aspects of telecom licensing. Madam, when the Leader of the Opposition was speaking, she was talking about certain things regarding the last Session where they were not allowed to run the Session and the Leader of Opposition was blaming the Government for not allowing the Session to go on. I would like to say one thing. The Winter Session was not held. No Business was conducted in this House. But there was a heavy offensive on one man who is our man. Without knowing the facts, without going into the merits of certain reports, he was accused. The report was leaked. All the leaders of the Opposition who are here started accusing him, abusing him in the public. Had there been a discussion held in this House, as was suggested by the Leader of the House, we would have come to many conclusions. I can even say the three subjects which we have selected for the JPC would have decreased or even increased. But there was no discussion. He was accused and abused. There was an offensive by the media, by the leaders of the Opposition and by the other party Members. He had no opportunity to explain his position. Even the Government was not given an opportunity to explain its position. Madam, I have great regards for the  Office of the C&AG. Like any other constitutional authority or office, the C&AG is an authority created by an Act of Parliament. But the Opposition took an opportunity based on the leaked report to attack the Government, to take political mileage over the Government. That is not fair. As I said earlier, I have great regards for the Office of the C&AG, not for  the person occupying the Chair. It was leaked. It should also be gone into. This Committee should go into that aspect. It should be added in the terms of reference of the JPC. Secondly, I want to make one more observation. When the Leader of the Opposition was speaking, she also talked of the observation made by the Supreme Court. Madam, I can say only one thing. If an adjudicator becomes a prosecutor, there ends justice in this land. If an adjudicator becomes a prosecutor,  there is no scope for the common man to get justice. If they are approving it, then, that shows the mindset of the Opposition. So, with these words, I support this Motion. SHRI BASU DEB ACHARIA ( BANKURA ):   Madam Chairman, we are against disruption of the House. The House did not function for the entire Winter Session. From day one, you can remember that we have been demanding the formation of the JPC. We do not always demand the formation of a JPC. In a very rare case, Members of this House demand the formation of a JPC. There had been four JPCs in the past. I can remember that in 1987  the House could not function for a number of days. When the entire Opposition had been demanding the formation of a JPC to inquire into the Bofors Scam, the House could not function for several days. Then, in the 1990s when there was the stock market scam by Harshad Mehta, for many days, the House could not function. We were in the Opposition. We had been demanding from day one a JPC. We said that unless a JPC was formed, there would not be any proper inquiry into all aspects. A JPC does not inquire into one aspect but the entire aspect of corruption and the scam. When we were in the Opposition, when there was the Tehelka exposure in respect of purchase of coffins for Defence, when the NDA was in power, the House did not function for many days. But the NDA, at that point of time, did not constitute JPC. This time it is not only the question of the scam of Rs.1,76,000 crore but it has its wider ramifications and that is why we, the entire Opposition is demanding JPC. Even the Parties, who are outside this Government but supporting the Government, are also asking for formation of JPC. What was our argument?  The argument of the Government was that so many agencies are enquiring into this scam, the CBI is enquiring, the CVC is enquiring, the Enforcement Department is enquiring and PAC is also examining it, so where is need for JPC.        In the past also, all these agencies were engaged to enquire and examine whenever there was a case of omission and commission.  But Government agreed to form JPC.  Why in this case, the Government was so much obdurate? Why there was obduracy in agreeing to a proposal made by the entire Opposition? The proposal of the Government was not only for a debate.  We are not afraid of a debate. We know the House is for debate and discussion.  If there is no debate and discussion, what for this House is there?  We are not afraid of debate on this 2G spectrum scam. But a condition was imposed that along with the debate there would be voting to know whether the majority of the Members of the House are in favour of Joint Parliamentary Committee or not. We are against that, we are not against any debate. The House did not function because we are accountable to the people; we have been elected by the people and we are here to represent the people; we are here to raise the important and urgent issues, issues concerning the people of our country, but we could not get any opportunity in the entire Winter Session to raise the people’s issues in this House. Who is responsible for that, as if the Opposition has demanded JPC and the Government is not agreeing to form JPC? Today, the motion has been brought before the House. Had the Government brought this motion in the first week of Winter Session, this entire Session would not have been wasted. Who is responsible for that? What is the argument of the hon. Minister?  That there is no corruption at all, there is no loss of revenue.  As if presumptive revenue or presumption loss or notional loss is not a real loss. He stated in a Press Release: 17.00 hrs. 

इसलिए मेरा आडवाणी जी से निवेदन है कि यह काम न करिए। यह सही बात है, किसी का करैक्टर एसीनेशन मत कीजिए। विपक्ष की नेता श्रीमती सुषमा स्वराज की बात तो हम सभी को समझ में  आती है। अंत में मैं आप लोगों के फैसले का स्वागत करते हुए अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। DR. M. THAMBIDURAI ( KARUR ): Thank you, Chairperson. I support the Motion moved by Shri Pranab Mukherjee for the appointment of the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC). This issue has arisen because of the CAG report regarding allotment of 2G spectrum. The CAG in its report said that this was a mega-scam, and the country lost nearly Rs. 1.76 lakh crore. This is a very big scam. Hence, we are discussing this matter of constituting the JPC. My Leader, hon. Amma J. Jayalalithaa, took lot of efforts to see that this scam is probed and also that a JPC is constituted. I would like to state that today is her birthday, and on her birthday whatever she demanded is going to be fulfilled and we are going to constitute the JPC. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please keep quiet. … (Interruptions) DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : Why are we constituting the JPC? Shri Pranab Mukherjee said that we are already having a Public Accounts Committee (PAC); the court is aware of this matter; and the CBI is also enquiring into it. This is a fact, and we are not denying it. But there is a provision in our Rules and Regulations that we can constitute a JPC on particular issues. It is clearly mentioned that : “JPC is usually constituted to investigate a serious issue, which has greatly agitated the public mind and which involves frauds or corruption on a large-scale.” This is the objective that is given. Big scam in the 2G spectrum allocation has come to light because of which we lost nearly Rs. 1.76 lakh crore and so, naturally, it is agitating the minds of the people. Therefore, we are constituting the JPC on this particular issue. The PAC may be there. I am also a Member of the PAC, and we know that the Chairman is from the Opposition party. But it is said that : “The reports of the PAC are generally not discussed in the House.” This is the Committee’s Rule, and it is mentioned here. Shri Lalu was just now saying that we must discuss the report of the JPC when it is submitted. We can submit the report on the Table of the House, but there is no Rule that we have to take up the issue and discuss it in the Parliament. Furthermore, the PAC has to deal with so many other businesses also and not only deal with this scam. We have to discuss the CAG Reports  relating to the Department of Defence, Department of Railways and many other issues in the PAC. Hence, we have requested to constitute a JPC to discuss this matter. Secondly, our hon. Prime Minister today said that : “Nearly 70 crore cell phones were available in the country because of the sound telecom policy, which was initiated by the NDA Government.” So, the Prime Minister himself has accepted that the tele-density has increased due to the NDA Government’s initiatives. At the same time, Shri Kapil Sibal, our hon. Minister, said that the policy of the NDA Government was not a good policy whereas the CAG report said that the country lost crores of rupees. I want to know truth from Shri Sibal. Is the Prime Minister correct in what he said today -- while he was replying -- or not , that is, because of the sound policy followed by the NDA Government, they also followed the same policy and we achieved the tele-density? He has said this. Madam, how was it initiated? First, you should take it from 1994 onwards when privatization started. During that period, the then Congress Government gave 44 licences. Between 1994 and 1998, up to that period, 44 licences were given. Then, during the NDA Government, 87 licences were given, out of which 21 licences were given to BSNL, and the private sector companies got only 66 licences. When DMK joined the UPA-I Government, at that time, the then Government had given 147 licences. … (Interruptions) SHRI T.K.S. ELANGOVAN ( CHENNAI NORTH ): Madam, he is going into the merits of the case. … (Interruptions) DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : I am not going into the merits, Madam. Where is the merit in this? I am not on the merits of the case. I am only narrating the facts. On the question of why a JPC should be constituted, it is necessary to explain certain things. … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN : Please keep quiet. DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : I am giving you the facts that 147 licences were given by the DMK Ministers, the former Telecom Minister and the present Textile Minister, Shri Dayanidhi Maran gave 24 licences. … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: Please wind up now. DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : Then, 123 licences were given by the former Minister, Shri A. Raja. How many times were these licences given? … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: Please wind up now. DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : I have started just now and you are asking me to wind up! … (Interruptions) SHRI T.K.S. ELANGOVAN ( CHENNAI NORTH ): He is not talking on the resolution, but on why JPC should be constituted. … (Interruptions) DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : I am telling you as to why it is necessary. … (Interruptions) SHRI T.R. BAALU : You should discuss the terms of reference. … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: We are giving five minutes to each speaker. DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : I am telling you as to why the JPC is necessary. For example,  the Minister Shri Kapil Sibal said that it was done during the NDA Government. The NDA Government gave 87 licences, which was a fact. At the same time, a wrong impression was given in the House that there was no auction at all. In 2001, how was the price fixed? The Reliance got the Pan-India license in July, 2001 through auction only. The amount for auction was fixed at Rs. 1,659 crore. How are they saying that no auction took place during NDA regime? Afterwards, in 2003, there was a Cabinet decision that if a fifth cellular phone company comes, they have to be given the licence through multi-bidding system only. That was the resolution passed in the Cabinet. … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: Please come to the subject and do not go beyond the subject. … (Interruptions) SHRI T.R. BAALU : He is not speaking on the resolution and he is confusing. … (Interruptions) DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : When the Minister said certain things, I have to clarify why the scam has come, or why the problem has come. … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: Please wind up because the reply will be given at 5.30 p.m. 

DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : Madam, this is an important issue. MADAM CHAIRMAN: You are a Member of the JPC. You can discuss all these matters in the JPC. … (Interruptions) SHRI T.K.S. ELANGOVAN : He is conducting the JPC now. … (Interruptions) DR. M. THAMBIDURAI : Madam, they are saying that whatever was done was based on the recommendations of TRAI. What did TRAI say in its report? TRAI in its report at page no. 24 says: 2. That the Committee shall have the following 20 members of the Lok Sabha as its members:- 3.       That the Speaker will nominate one of the members of the Committee to be its Chairman. 4.       That the Committee shall start functioning from the day it is duly constituted. 5.       That the Committee shall be provided all assistance by the Government and other agencies. 6.       That in order to constitute a sitting of the Joint Committee, the quorum shall be one-third of the total number of members of the Joint Committee. 7.       That the Joint Committee shall make a report to this House by the end of the next session of Parliament. 8.       That in other respects, the Rules of Procedure of this House relating to the Parliamentary Committees shall apply with such variations and modifications as the Speaker may make. 9.       That this House recommends to the Rajya Sabha that the Rajya Sabha do join the Committee and communicate to this House the names of ten Members appointed from amongst the members of the Rajya Sabha to the Committee as mentioned above." The motion was adopted. MADAM SPEAKER: The House will now take up Zero Hour. Shri P. Karunakaran.