I have had the benefit of reading the judgment proposed by His

Lordship, B.R. Gavai, J. 2. However, I wish to differ on the reasoning and conclusions

arrived at in his judgement with regard to exercise of power by the

Central Government under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Reserve

Bank of India Act, 1934 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act” for the

sake of brevity) by issuance of the impugned notification dated 8th

November, 2016. Hence, my separate judgment. Preface: 3. By way of a preface, I state that the judgment proposed by His

Lordship, Gavai, J. does not recognise the essential fact that the Act

does not envisage initiation of demonetisation of bank notes by the

Central Government. Sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act,

contemplates demonetisation of bank notes at the instance of the

Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter referred to as

“the Bank”). Hence, if demonetisation is to be initiated by the Central

Government, such power is derived from Entry 36 of List I of the

Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which speaks of currency,

coinage and legal tender; foreign exchange. In view of the interpretation given by me to sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act in the context of the powers of the Central Board 3 of the Bank and the Central Government vis­à­vis demonetisation of

bank notes, my answer is only with regard to question No.1 of the

reference order. Incidentally, while considering the same, I would

touch upon question No. 7 of the reference order. 4. The questions for consideration of this Constitution Bench

framed by the Predecessor Bench on 16 th December, 2016 are

extracted as under: and (ix) Whether District Co­operative Banks have been
 discriminated against by excluding them from
 accepting deposits and exchanging demonetized
 notes.”

 Keeping in view the general public importance and
 the far­reaching implications which the answers to
 the questions may have, we consider it proper to
 direct that the matters be placed before the larger
 Bench of five Judges for an authoritative
 pronouncement. The Registry shall accordingly place
 the papers before Hon’ble the Chief Justice for
 constituting an appropriate Bench.” 5. His Lordship, Gavai, J. has reframed the questions referred to

 this Constitution Bench and culled out six questions, which have been

 answered in the erudite judgment proposed by him. My views on each

 of such questions, as contrasted with those of His Lordship’s have

 been expressed in a tabular form hereinunder, for easy reference.

Question, as reframed His Lordship’s views My views
by His Lordship, B.R.
Gavai, J. 1. “Whether the i) The power available i) The Central
power available to the to the Central Government Government possesses
Central Government under sub­section (2) of the power to initiate
under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act and carry out the
Section 26 of the RBI cannot be restricted to
 process of
Act can be restricted to mean that it can be
 demonetisation of all
mean that it can be exercised only for one or 5 Question, as reframed His Lordship’s views My views
by His Lordship, B.R.
Gavai, J. exercised only for "one" some series of bank notes series of bank notes, of
or "some" series of bank and not to all series of all denominations. specified in notifications of the 2017 Act." The reasons for the aforesaid conclusions shall now be

 discussed. Controversy in these cases: Therefore, it cannot be denied that demonetisation in the instant case 10 was a well­intentioned proposal. However, in my separate opinion I

shall proceed to legalistically examine whether demonetisation, as

well­intentioned as it may have been, was carried out in accordance

with the procedure established under law. 6.1 The controversy in these cases revolves around the exercise of

 power by the Central Government under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Sub­section

 (1) of Section 26 of the Act provides that every bank note shall

 be a legal tender as per the amount expressed therein and shall

 be guaranteed by the Central Government. However, as per sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, bank notes can cease to be

 legal tender when the Central Government issues a notification

 in the Gazette of India declaring that with effect from such date

 as may be specified in the said notification any series of bank

 notes of any denomination shall cease to be legal tender. Such

 a notification may be issued on the recommendation of the

 Central Board of the Bank. There is a challenge to the vires of

 the said provision and also the validity of the Notification dated

 8th November, 2016 issued by the Central Government. As a

 result of the said Notification, all series of Rs.500/­ and

 Rs.1,000/­ denomination notes were demonetised or ceased to

 be legal tender by issuance of a notification on the said date. At

 this stage itself, it may be mentioned that subsequent to the 11 notification there was an Ordinance called “The Specified Bank

 Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Ordinance, 2016” (hereinafter

 referred to as “the 2016 Ordinance” for the sake of brevity)

 promulgated by the Hon’ble President of India, which was later

 made an Act of the Parliament, namely, “ The Specified Bank

 Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017 ” (hereinafter called

 “2017 Act” for the sake of brevity) and was notified on 1 st March

 2017, replacing the Ordinance. The issuance of the aforesaid

 Notification and the action of the Central Government of

 demonetisation of all series of Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­ are

 assailed in these Writ Petitions. The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 : An overview 7. Before proceeding further, it would be useful to refer to the

provisions of the Act for the sake of convenience.

7.1 The object and purpose of the Act is to constitute a Reserve

 Bank of India to regulate the issue of bank notes and for

 keeping reserves with a view to secure monetary stability in

 India, and to generally operate the currency and credit system

 of the country to its advantage. 7.2 The Preamble of the Act states that it is essential to have a

 modern monetary policy framework to meet the challenge of an

 increasingly complex economy and the primary objective of the 12 monetary policy is to maintain price stability while keeping in

 mind the objective of growth. The monetary policy framework in

 India shall be operated by the Reserve Bank of India.

7.3 The following provisions of the Act are relevant for the purposes

 of this case and are extracted as under: 7.5 Chapter III of the Act which is relevant for the purpose of these

 cases deals with Central Banking Function. For the purposes of

 these cases, Sections 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 26A , 27 , 28 and 34 are

 relevant and the same read as under: (2) The Issue Department shall not issue Bank notes
to the Banking Department or to any other person
except in exchange for other Bank notes or for such
coin, bullion or securities as are permitted by this
Act to form part of the Reserve.”

“[24. Denominations of notes ­ (1) Subject to the
provisions of sub­section (2), Bank notes shall be of
the denominational values of two rupees, five rupees,
ten rupees, twenty rupees, fifty rupees, one hundred
rupees, five hundred rupees, one thousand rupees,
five thousand rupees and ten thousand rupees or of
such other denominational values, not exceeding ten
thousand rupees, as the Central Government may,
on the recommendation of the Central Board, specify
in this behalf. (2) The Central Government may, on the
recommendation of the Central Board, direct the
non­issue or the discontinuance of issue of Bank
notes of such denominational values as it may
specify in this behalf.]”

“25. Form of Bank notes ­ The design, form and
material of Bank notes shall be such as may be
approved by the [Central Government] after
consideration of the recommendations made by
Central Board.”

“26. Legal tender character of notes ­ (1) Subject to
the provisions of sub­section (2), every Bank note
shall be legal tender at any place in [India] in 15 payment or on account for the amount expressed
 therein, and shall be guaranteed by the [Central
 Government]. (2) On recommendation of the Central Board the
 [Central Government] may, by notification in the
 Gazette of India, declare that, with effect from such
 date as may be specified in the notification, any
 series of Bank notes of any denomination shall cease
 to be legal tender [save at such office or agency of the
 Bank and to such extent as may be specified in the
 notification].”

 “[26A. Certain Bank notes to cease to be legal
 tender­ Notwithstanding anything contained in section 26 , no Bank note of the denominational
 value of five hundred rupees, one thousand rupees
 or ten thousand rupees issued before the 13th day of
 January, 1946, shall be legal tender in payment or
 on account for the amount expressed therein.]”

 “27. Re­issue of notes­ The Bank shall not re­issue
 Bank notes which are torn, defaced or excessively
 spoiled.”
 xxx
 “34. Liabilities of the Issue Department­ (1) The
 liabilities of the Issue Department shall be an
 amount equal to the total of the amount of the
 currency notes of the Government of India and Bank
 notes for the time being in circulation.”

7.6 Section 22 states that the Bank has the sole right to issue bank

 notes in India, and may, for a period which shall be fixed by the

 Central Government on the recommendation of the Central

 Board of the Bank, issue currency notes of the Government of

 India supplied to it by the Central Government. On and from the 16 date on which Chapter III comes into force, the Central

 Government shall not issue any currency notes except the

 denomination of Rupee One. 7.7 The issue of bank notes shall be by the Issue Department of the

 Bank which shall be separated and kept wholly distinct from

 the Banking Department, and the assets of the Issue

 Department shall not be subject to any liability other than the

 liability of the Issue Department as defined under Section 34 of

 the Act, vide Section 23 of the Act. The liabilities of the Issue

 Department under Section 34 of the Act shall be an amount

 equal to the total of the amount of the currency notes of the

 Government of India and bank notes for the time being in

 circulation. 7.8 Sub­section (1) of Section 24 states that, subject to the

 provisions of sub­section (2) of Section 24 , the bank notes shall

 be of the denominational values of two rupees, five rupees, ten

 rupees, twenty rupees, fifty rupees, one hundred rupees, five

 hundred rupees, one thousand rupees, five thousand rupees

 and ten thousand rupees or of such other denominational

 values, not exceeding ten thousand rupees, as the Central

 Government may, on the recommendation of the Central Board

 of the Bank, specify in this behalf. However, this provision is 17 subject to sub­section (2) of Section 24 which states that the

 Central Government may on the recommendation of the Central

 Board of the Bank, direct the non­issue or the discontinuance of

 issue of bank notes of such denominational values as it may

 specify in that behalf. The Central Government has to approve

 the design for all the bank notes after consideration of the

 recommendation made by the Central Board vide Section 25 of

 the Act. 7.9 Sub­section (1) of Section 26 of the Act states that every bank

 note shall be legal tender at any place in India in payment, or

 on account for the amount expressed therein and shall be

 guaranteed by the Central Government. This is, however,

 subject to sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, which states

 that the Central Government on the recommendation of the

 Central Board may, by issuance of a notification in the Gazette

 of India, declare that with effect from such date as may be

 specified in the notification, any series of Bank notes of any

 denomination shall cease to be legal tender, save at such office

 or agency of the Bank and to such extent as may be specified in

 the notification. Further discussion on this provision shall be

 made at a later stage as the said provision is the centre of the

 controversy in these cases. 7.10 Pursuant to the demonetisation which was carried out in the

 year 1946, bank notes of denominational value of Rs.500/­,

 Rs.1,000/­ and Rs.10,000/­, issued before 13 th January, 1946,

 ceased to be legal tender. Section 26A was inserted into the Act

 pursuant to the demonetisation which took place in the year

 1946, which was initially by an Ordinance and subsequently by

 an Act of Parliament. Section 26A was inserted into the Act by

 Act 62 of 1956, with effect from 01.11.1956. 7.11 Section 27 provides that if a note is torn, defaced or excessively

 spoiled, the Bank shall not re­issue such a note. Similarly, Section 28 provides that if a currency note of the Government of

 India or bank note is lost, stolen, mutilated or imperfect, the

 value of same cannot be recovered from the Central Government

 or the Bank by any person. 7.12 Section 28A speaks of issue of special bank notes and special

 one­rupee notes in certain cases. The said provision was

 inserted by Act 14 of 1959 with effect from 01.05.1959.

Submissions: 8. We have heard learned senior counsel as well as counsel for the

petitioners, and the learned Attorney General for India and learned

senior counsel for the respondent­Bank, all assisted by learned

counsel. 8.1 According to the learned senior counsel, Shri P. Chidambaram,

 appearing for some of the petitioners, the Central Government

 has the power to issue a notification in the Gazette of India

 declaring any series of bank notes of any denomination as

 having ceased to be legal tender and demonetise such currency

 notes, subject to compliance of certain procedural conditions

 prescribed under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act.

 According to him, first, there has to be a recommendation of the

 Central Board of the Bank to the Central Government before the

 latter can issue a notification in the Gazette of India,

 demonetising any series of bank note of any denomination. That

 the Central Government cannot, by a simple notification in the

 Gazette of India, suo moto and in the absence of any

 recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, demonetise

 any currency note in circulation by issuance of a gazette

 notification under the said provision. 8.2 Also, the Central Government can demonetise only a particular

 series of bank notes of a particular denomination on the

 recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank. In other

 words, the expression “any” series of bank notes of “any

 denomination” cannot be understood as “all” series of bank

 notes of “all” denominations. That the expression “any” 20 occurring twice in the section must be given the intended

 meaning and not supposed meaning and interpretation.

8.3 Shri Chidambaram submitted that in the instant case, the

 Central Government without complying with the procedure

 envisaged under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, simply

 issued a notification in the Gazette of India on 8 th November,

 2016 demonetising all series of bank notes of the denominations

 of Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­. Consequently, approximately 86

 per cent of all notes in circulation were demonetised. The

 serious effects of demonetisation are well­known and judicial

 notice of the same may be taken. Even otherwise, carrying out

 the demonetisation by simply issuing a notification, in the

 absence of a recommendation made by the Central Board of the

 Bank, which is a condition precedent, is unlawful. Further, all

 series of bank notes of Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­ could not have

 been demonetised by a stroke of a pen. The expression “any” in

 sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act means, “a particular”

 series of “a particular denomination” of a bank note, and not

 “all” series of “all” denominations. He contended that in the

 instant case, the issuance of the Notification, demonetising the

 entire currency of Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­ in circulation at the

 time, is unlawful and the exercise of power was erroneous and

 arbitrary and hence, the same ought to be declared so. 21 8.4 Learned senior counsel emphasized that sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act must be given an interpretation which is

 legally workable and practicable and this Court ought not give a

 blanket power to the Central Government to demonetise all

 currency of a particular denomination, as such action would be

 contrary to the object envisaged under sub­section (2) of Section

 26 of the Act. 8.5 Further elaborating on his submission, learned senior counsel

 for the petitioners contended that the expression “any” ought

 not be interpreted as “all” as such an interpretation would be

 disastrous to the Indian economy and contrary to the true letter

 and spirit of the Act. He contended that the word “any” means

 “one of the many” and not “all”. Therefore, according to him,

 any one series of bank notes of a denomination could be

 demonetised and not all series of notes of a particular

 denomination or all series of bank notes of all denominations,

 by issuance of an executive notification. He contended that if

 the Section is read down, then, it would be saved from the vice

 of unconstitutionality; otherwise, the power of the Central

 Government to demonetise all series of bank notes of all

 denominations would be arbitrary and an excessive power,

 which is devoid of any guidance. That such power if vested with

 the Central Government, would be contrary to the provisions of 22 the Act. He further contended that exercise of discretion by the

 Central Government could be only to the extent of

 demonetisation of particular series of bank notes of any

 particular denomination that too on the recommendation of the

 Central Board of the Bank. Such vast powers so as to

 recommend demonetisation of all series of bank notes of any or

 all denominations, cannot also be vested with the Bank.

8.6 Learned senior counsel, Shri Shyam Diwan appearing for the

 petitioner, namely, Malvinder Singh in Writ Petition (Civil)

 No.149 of 2017, submitted that apart from the guarantee given

 by the Central Government with regard to every bank note as a

 legal tender at any place in India, such notes are also the

 liabilities of the Issue Department of the Bank under Section 34 of the Act to the extent of an amount equal to the total of the

 value of the currency notes of the Government of India and

 bank notes for the time being in circulation.

8.7 Learned senior counsel submitted that in the absence of a

 specific duty with regard to mitigating the long­lasting effects of

 demonetisation on the Indian economy, the decision of the

 Central Government to demonetise about 86.4% of the total

 currency in circulation is vitiated on account of manifest

 arbitrariness. 8.8 The learned senior counsel further contended that by applying

 the test of proportionality, the impugned notification dated 8 th

 November, 2016, is liable to be set aside. 8.9 Reliance was placed on K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) (Aadhaar)

 vs. Union of India (2019) 1 SCC 1 to contend that the classical

 equality test can be applied to the present case to come to the

 conclusion that the decision of demonetisation had no nexus to

 the objective sought to be achieved. 8.10 It was further contended that the circular dated 31st December,

 2016, is discriminatory, insofar as it prescribed no upper

 monetary limit applicable to Resident Indians for submission

 and exchange of Specified Bank Notes, which were declared to

 have ceased to be legal tender; however, the monetary limit of

 Rs. 25,000/­ per individual was fixed for Non­Resident Indians

 (NRIs), depending on when the notes were taken out of India in

 accordance with the FEMA Rules. That an additional liability

 was imposed on NRIs as they had to produce a certificate issued

 by the Indian Customs upon arrival after 30th December, 2016,

 indicating the import of SBNs and the details and value of the

 same. 8.11 The learned senior counsel brought to the Court’s notice an

 article titled “Using Fast Frequency Household Survey Data to 24 Estimate the Impact of Demonetisation on Employment”

 authored by Mr. Mahesh Vyas, Centre for Monitoring Indian

 Economy (2018) to contend that owing to the demonetisation

 carried out, there was a substantial reduction in employment

 and employment rates were 12 million lower than it was two

 months’ preceding demonetisation. Relying on the said article,

 he submitted that demonetisation resulted in a loss of millions

 of jobs. 9. Per contra, learned Attorney General for India, Shri

R.Venkataramani, vehemently countered the arguments of Shri

P.Chidambaram, learned senior counsel, by contending that the power

vested with the Central Government under sub­section (2) of Section

26 of the Act is not arbitrary or without guidance. That the power to

demonetise any currency note or legal tender is vested with the Central

Government and such power is of a wide import and amplitude and

this Court may not give an interpretation, restricting the said power.

He contended that the power vested with the Central Government is

exercised by the issuance of a notification in the Gazette of India which

is on the basis of a recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank.

9.1 In this regard, learned Attorney General emphasized that earlier

 demonetisations were carried out in the years 1946 and 1978 by

 issuance of Ordinances and thereafter, converting the said 25 Ordinances into Acts of Parliament. But in the instant case, the

 demonetisation dated 8th November, 2016 was for all series of

 bank notes of Rs.500/­ and of Rs.1,000/­ denominations, by

 the issuance of a gazette notification, which is perfectly valid in

 the eyes of law and in accordance with sub­section (2) of Section

 26 of the Act. 9.2 Learned Attorney General contended that the impugned gazette

 notification was issued having regard to the salient objectives

 that had to be achieved by the demonetisation of Rs.500/­ and

 Rs.1,000/­ currency notes which are set out clearly in the

 notification dated 8th November, 2016. The salient objectives of

 demonetisation in the year 2016 were to eradicate black money,

 to eliminate fake currency from the Indian economy and to

 prevent terror funding. He therefore, contended that there is no

 merit in the submissions made by the learned senior counsel

 appearing for the petitioners as the impugned notification dated

 8th November, 2016 is in accordance with sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act and therefore, is valid.

9.3 Shri R.Venkataramani, learned Attorney General, next

 submitted that the action taken by way of the impugned

 notification stands ratified by the 2017 Act and as the executive

 action has been validated by the will of the Parliament, the

 challenge to the notification would not survive. 26 9.4 The learned Attorney General contended that the word “any”

 appearing before the words “series of bank notes” in sub­section

 (2) of Section 26 of the Act should be construed to mean “all”.

 He submitted that the argument of the petitioners that the word

 “any” would not mean “all” is flawed and if the same is accepted,

 it would permit the Government to issue separate notifications

 for each series, however, the Government would be prohibited

 from issuing a common notification for all series.

9.5 The learned Attorney General submitted that the word “any” has

 been used in two places in sub­ section 2 of Section 26 of the Act

 and the word “any” preceding the word “series of bank notes”

 has to be construed to mean “all” whereas the word “any”

 preceding the word “denomination” may be construed to be a

 singular or otherwise. The learned Attorney General placed

 reliance on Maharaj Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (1977)

 1 SCC 155 to contend that the same word used in the same

 provision twice could be permitted to have a different meaning

 in each of such usages. 9.6 The learned Attorney General contended that the submission

 made by the petitioners that the powers under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act have not been exercised in the manner

 provided therein and that the decision­making process was 27 flawed on account of patent arbitrariness, is not tenable. He

 submitted that sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act

 postulates that the Central Government may take a decision to

 carry out demonetisation pursuant to the recommendation of

 the Central Board of the Bank and in the present case, there

 was a recommendation made by the Central Board to the

 Central Government, recommending demonetisation. Thus, after

 considering the proposal of the Central Board, the Central

 Government took the decision to carry out demonetisation.

 Thus, the procedure as envisaged in sub­section (2) of Section

 26 of the Act was duly complied with. 9.7 The learned Attorney General placed reliance on Bajaj

 Hindustan Limited vs. Sir Lal Enterprises Limited (2011) 1

 SCC 640 wherein it was observed that economic and fiscal

 regulatory measures are fields on which Judges should

 encroach upon very warily as Judges are not experts in these

 matters. The learned Attorney General submitted that the Bank

 is an expert body charged with the duty of conceiving and

 implementing various facets of economic and monetary policy

 and that there cannot be a straitjacket formula guiding the

 discharge of its duties. That therefore, it must be allowed to

 carry out its functions as it deems fit. The learned Attorney 28 General further placed reliance on Rajbir Singh Dalal (Dr.) vs.

 Chaudhari Devi Lal University, Sirsa ( 2008) 9 SCC 284 and

 Secretary and Curator, Victoria Memorial Hall vs. Howrah

 Ganatantrik Nagrik Samity (2010) 3 SCC 640 to contend

 that it is settled law that the courts should not interfere with

 the opinion of experts. 9.8 Shri Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel for the Bank

 contended that the withdrawal of all series of bank notes of the

 two denominations of Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­ was well within

 the jurisdiction and power conferred upon the Bank and the

 Central Government under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the

 Act and it is incorrect to say that the process under sub­section

 (2) of Section 26 of the Act had not been followed. Thus, the

 process cannot be criticized on the ground of procedural lapse

 on part of the Bank or the Central Government.

9.9 Learned senior counsel for the Bank further contended that the

 submission of the petitioners that unless the phrase “any” in

 sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is read as “some” or

 “one”, the power conferred upon the Bank and the Central

 Government under the said section would be unguided and

 arbitrary, is without any basis. It was submitted that the

 expression “any” when construed literally refers to one, several 29 or all of a total number. Thus, the expression “any” used in sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is broad enough to include

 “all”, and consequently, the power of the Government under

 sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is not limited merely to a

 specific set or “series” alone. It was thus contended that sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is an enabling provision

 conferring authority on the Central Government to declare that

 any series of bank notes of any denomination shall cease to be

 legal tender on the recommendation of the Central Board. 9.10 Learned senior counsel for the Bank also submitted that the

 decision of the Central Board of the Bank to recommend the

 measure of demonetisation and the decision of the Central

 Government to accept the recommendation cannot be subject to

 judicial review. It was further contended that in the sphere of

 economic policy making, the Wednesbury principles are of no or

 little significance and that the proportionality principle can also

 not be applied for judicial review of economic policy. Learned

 senior counsel thus asserted that it is imperative that no

 restrictions are placed on economic policies formulated by the

 Bank or by the Central Government. Reliance was placed on Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. vs.

 Reserve Bank of India ( 1992) 2 SCC 343 and BALCO 30 Employees’ Union (Regd.) vs. Union of India (2002) 2 SCC

 333 to contend that courts cannot interfere with economic

 policy which is the function of experts. 9.11 Learned senior counsel for the Bank further submitted that the

 contention of the petitioners that the decision­making process

 was faulty on account of not following the procedure under sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, is without substance. Shri

 Jaideep Gupta, submitted that the procedure under sub­section

 (2) of Section 26 contemplates two things i.e., recommendation

 of the Central Board, and the decision by the Central

 Government and that in the present case, both the

 requirements have been duly followed, thus, the argument

 advanced on behalf of the petitioners does not hold any water.

9.12 Learned senior counsel for the Bank placed reliance on Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah vs. Reserve Bank of India (1996) 9 SCC 650 to contend that a similar provision providing

 for a specified time for exchange of notes was found to be valid

 by a Constitution Bench of this Court, while adjudicating on the

 legality of the 1978 demonetisation. He submitted that the time

 provided in the present case is similar to the time provided

 under the 1978 Act and the time period provided in the said act

 was found to be reasonable, having regard to the purpose 31 sought to be achieved by the said Act. The learned senior

 counsel further submitted that everybody had sufficient

 opportunity either to deposit the notes in their banks or to

 exchange the same. 9.13 Learned senior counsel for the Bank submitted that

 demonetisation was carried out in furtherance of national

 economic interest and the same ought to be given deference.

 That the inconvenience caused to the public cannot be a ground

 to challenge the validity of such actions, particularly when

 prompt and adequate measures were taken by the Bank to

 mitigate the temporary hardships expected to be caused.

9.14 Learned senior counsel for the Bank submitted that the Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017 , has

 given relief to certain categories of persons subject to

 verification. It was thus contended that individual cases of

 hardship that have not been provided for in the Specified Bank

 Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017 , cannot be gone into.

9.15 It was further submitted that Section 8 of the RBI Act, 1934,

 provides for the composition of the Central Board and sub­ section 1 of Section 4 stipulates that the Central Board shall

 consist of the following Directors, namely: 32 and iv) Two Government officials to be nominated by the Central

 Government. It was submitted that the 561 st meeting of the Central

Board of the Bank was held on 08.11.2016 at New Delhi and

business was transacted therein with the requisite quorum.

That during the said meeting, apart from the then Governor and

two Deputy Governors, one Director nominated under Section

8(1)(b) of the Act, two Directors nominated under Section 8(1)(c) of the Act and two Directors nominated under Section 8(1)(d) of

the Act were present. Thus, the requisite quorum of four

directors of whom not less than three directors nominated

under Section 8(1)(b) or 8(1)(c) were present for the meeting.

Thus, the requisite procedure was duly followed by the Bank in

the conduct of the 561st meeting of the Central Board. 33 Other learned senior counsel as well as learned counsel

 and parties­in­person have also addressed the Court.

History and instances of Demonetisation: 10. Before proceeding to consider the rival contentions, it would be

useful to delineate on the concept of demonetisation and how it has

been carried out, the world over as well as in India.

10.1 In prosaic terms, demonetisation is the process by which a

 nation’s economic unit of exchange loses its legally enforceable

 validity. Currencies that are terminated through the process of

 demonetisation are no more legally considered exchanges and

 have no financial value. Demonetisation is therefore, the

 process of eliminating the lawful acceptance status of a

 monetary unit, by withdrawal of certain kinds or denominations

 of existing currency from circulation. The currency withdrawn

 may be supplanted with new currency. 10.2 The French were the first to use the term “Demonetise” in the

 years between the years 1850­1855. In world history, one can

 see several instances of demonetisations as many countries

 have adopted the policy of demonetisation. Some instances of

 demonetisation globally, may be recorded as under: 34 History of Demonetisation in India: It is said that this exercise turned out to be more like a

 currency conversion drive as the government couldn’t

 achieve much profit in the cash­strapped economy at that

 time. k) The second demonetisation was carried out in the year

 1978, in pursuance of the recommendation of the Wanchoo

 Committee, appointed by the Central Government, to recall

 the re­introduced Rs.1,000/­, Rs.5,000/­ and Rs.10,000/­

 notes, entirely from the cash system. The stated objective of

 such measure was to nullify black money supposedly held

 in high denomination currency notes. The government

 resorted to demonetisation of bank notes of denominations

 Rs.1,000/­, Rs.5,000/­, and Rs.10,000/­ notes on 16 th

 January, 1978, under the High Denomination Bank Notes

 (Demonetisation) Ordinance, 1978 (No. 1 of 1978) and

 people were allowed three days’ time to exchange their

 notes. During this demonetisation exercise, out of a value 37 of Rs.146 Crores demonetised notes, currency notes of

 value of Rs.124.45 Crores were exchanged and a sum of

 Rs.21.55 Crores, or 14.76% of the demonetised currency

 notes, were extinguished. 11. It would be useful at this stage to discuss briefly the Acts of 1946

and 1978 and the impugned demonetisation having regard to sub­

section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. 11.1 The Ordinance of 12th January, 1946 stated that on the expiry

 of the 12th Day of January, 1946, all high denomination bank

 notes shall, notwithstanding anything contained in Section

 26 of the Act, cease to be legal tender in payment or on

 account at any place in British India. A provision was made for

 the exchange of the high denomination bank notes which had

 ceased to be legal tender, with bank notes of the

 denominational value of Rs.100/­ which continued to be legal

 tender. 11.2 The High Denomination Bank Notes (Demonetisation) Act, 1978 was enacted in public interest and provided demonetisation of

 certain high denomination bank notes and for matters

 connected therewith or incidental thereto. The said Act, inter­

 alia, defined a high denomination bank note to be a bank note

 of the denominational value of Rs.1,000/­, Rs.5,000/­ or 38 Rs.10,000/­, issued by the Reserve Bank of India immediately

 before the commencement of the said Act. The said Act also

 stated in Section 3 that on the expiry of the 16 th Day of

 January, 1978, all high denomination bank notes shall,

 notwithstanding anything contained in Section 26 of the

 Act, cease to be legal tender. 11.3 As noted earlier, the previous demonetisations were not carried

 out on the strength of sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act

 inasmuch as both the legislations categorically stated that the

 demonetisation was “notwithstanding anything contained

 in Section 26 of the Act”. In fact, under the 1978 Act, one of

 the objects of the demonetisation of high denomination bank

 notes was that such notes facilitated illicit transfer of money for

 financial transactions which were harmful to the national

 economy or were used for illegal purposes and therefore, it was

 necessary in public interest to demonetise the high

 denomination bank notes. The use of the non­obstante clause

 clearly indicates that the Central Government was not

 demonetising the currency on the recommendation of the

 Central Board of the Bank under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. In fact, this position is demonstrated by the fact that

 in the year 1978, the then Central Government sought an 39 opinion of the Central Board of the Bank regarding the

 demonetisation of high denomination bank notes. The proposal

 for demonetisation arose from or was initiated by the Central

 Government which sought the opinion of the Central Board of

 the Bank. Therefore, the proposal for demonetisation initiated

 by the Central Government was de hors sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. 11.4 The fact that the non­obstante clause found a place in Section 3 of the Ordinance of 1946 as well as in Section 3 of the 1978

 Act, would clearly indicate that the Central Government, in

 those cases, did not demonetise the high denomination bank

 notes on the recommendation made by the Central Board of the

 Bank under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act but on the

 other hand, the same was carried out de hors the said provision

 by plenary legislations. Hence, the Central Government which

 initiated the process chose the route through legislation for

 carrying out the demonetisation rather than by issuing an

 executive notification in the Gazette of India.

11.5 The above is in contrast with the issuance of the gazette

 notification dated 8th November, 2016, which was followed by

 the Ordinance of 2016 and then the Act of 2017 was enacted.

 The said Act, inter alia, provides that the specified bank notes 40 would cease to be the liability of the Reserve Bank of India or

 the Central Government. 11.6 The demonetisation carried out in the year 2016, of all series of

 bank notes of denomination Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­ which

 forms the subject matter of the controversy at hand was, on the

 other hand, carried out by the Central Government by issuance

 of a notification in the Gazette of India on 8 th November, 2016.

 For ease of reference, the impugned notification dated 8 th

 November, 2016 is extracted as under: And whereas, it has been found that fake
 currency notes of the specified bank notes have been
 largely in circulation and it has been found to be
 difficult to easily identify genuine bank notes from
 the fake ones and that the use of fake currency notes
 is causing adverse effect to the economy of the
 country; And whereas, it has been found that high
 denomination bank notes are used for storage of
 unaccounted wealth as has been evident from the
 large cash recoveries made by law enforcement
 agencies; And whereas, it has also been found that fake
 currency is being used for financing subversive
 activities such as drug trafficking and terrorism,
 causing damage to the economy and security of the
 country and the Central Government after due
 consideration has decided to implement the
 recommendations of the Board; Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers
 conferred by sub­section (2) of section 26 of the
 Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934)
 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), the Central
 Government hereby declares that the specified bank
 notes shall cease to be legal tender with effect from
 the 9th November, 2016 to the extent specified below,
 namely: ­ 1. (1) Every banking company defined under the
 Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) and every
 Government Treasury shall complete and forward a
 return showing the details of specified bank notes
 held by it at the close of business as on the 8th
 November, 2016, not later than 13:00 hours on the
 10th November, 2016 to the designated Regional
 Office of the Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter
 referred to as the Reserve Bank) in the format
 specified by it. (2) Immediately after forwarding the return referred to
 in sub­paragraph (1), the specified bank notes shall
 be remitted to the linked or nearest currency chest,
 or the branch or office of the Reserve Bank, for credit
 to their accounts. 2. The specified bank notes held by a person other than
 a banking company referred to in sub­paragraph (1)
 of paragraph 1 or Government Treasury may be
 exchanged at any Issue Office of the Reserve Bank or
 any branch of public sector banks, private sector
 banks, foreign banks, Regional Rural Banks, Urban
 Cooperative Banks and State Cooperative Banks for 42 a period up to and including the 30th December,
2016, subject to the following conditions, namely: — (i) the specified bank notes of aggregate value of
 Rs.4,000/­ or below may be exchanged for
 any denomination of bank notes having legal
 tender character, with a requisition slip in
 the format specified by the Reserve Bank and
 proof of identity; (ii) the limit of Rs.4,000/­ for exchanging
 specified bank notes shall be reviewed after
 fifteen days from the date of commencement
 of this notification and appropriate orders
 may be issued, where necessary; (iii) there shall not be any limit on the quantity
 or value of the specified bank notes to be
 credited to the account maintained with the
 bank by a person, where the specified bank
 notes are tendered; however, where
 compliance with extant Know Your Customer
 (KYC) norms is not complete in an account,
 the maximum value of specified bank notes
 as may be deposited shall be Rs.50,000/­; (iv) the equivalent value of specified bank notes
 tendered may be credited to an account
 maintained by the tenderer at any bank in
 accordance with standard banking procedure
 and on production of valid proof of Identity; (v) the equivalent value of specified bank notes
 tendered may be credited to a third­party
 account, provided specific authorisation
 therefor accorded by the third party is
 presented to the bank, following standard
 banking procedure and on production of
 valid proof of identity of the person actually
 tendering; limit of Rs.20,000/­ a week from the date of
 commencement of this notification until the 43 end of business hours on 24th November,
 2016, after which these limits shall be
 reviewed; (vii) there shall be no restriction on the use of
 any non­cash method of operating the
 account of a person including cheques,
 demand drafts, credit or debit cards, mobile
 wallets and electronic fund transfer
 mechanisms or the like; (viii) withdrawal from Automatic Teller Machines
 (hereinafter referred to as ATMs) shall be
 restricted to Rs.2,000/­ per day per card up
 to 18th November, 2016 and the limit shall
 be raised to Rs.4,000/­ per day per card
 from 19th November, 2016; (ix) any person who is unable to exchange or
 deposit the specified bank notes in their
 bank accounts on or before the 30th
 December, 2016, shall be given an
 opportunity to do so at specified offices of the
 Reserve Bank or such other facility until a
 later date as may be specified by it. 3. (1) Every banking company and every
 Government Treasury referred to in sub­paragraph
 (1) of paragraph 1 shall be closed for the transaction
 of all business on 9th November, 2016, except the
 preparation for implementing this scheme and
 remittance of the specified bank notes to nearby
 currency chests or the branches or offices of the
 Reserve Bank and receipt of bank notes having legal
 tender character. (2) All ATMs, Cash Deposit Machines, Cash
 Recyclers and any other machine used for receipt
 and payment of cash shall be shut on 9th and 10th
 November, 2016. (3) Every bank referred to in sub­paragraph (1)
 of paragraph 1 shall recall the specified bank notes
 from ATMs and replace them with bank notes having
 legal tender character prior to reactivation of the
 machines on 11th November, 2016. (4) The sponsor banks of White Label ATMs
 shall be responsible to recall the specified bank notes
 from the White Label ATMs and replacing the same
 with bank notes having legal tender character prior
 to reactivation of the machines on 11th November,
 2016. (5) All banks referred to in sub­paragraph (1) of
 paragraph 1 shall ensure that their ATMs and White
 Label ATMs shall dispense bank notes of
 denomination of Rs.100/­ or Rs.50/­, until further
 instructions from the Reserve Bank. (6) The banking company referred to in sub­
 paragraph (1) of paragraph 1 and Government
 Treasuries shall resume their normal transactions
 from 10th November, 2016. 4. Every banking company referred to sub­paragraph
 (1) of paragraph 1, shall at the close of business of
 each day starting from 10th November, 2016, submit
 to the Reserve Bank, a statement showing the details
 of specified bank notes exchanged by it in such
 format as may be specified by the Reserve Bank. [F.No.10/03/2016­Cy.I]
 Dr. SAURABH GARG, Jt. Secy.”

 (underlining by me)

 The said Notification was thereafter followed by an Ordinance

issued by the President on 30th December, 2016 and subsequently an

Act of Parliament namely, the 2017 Act. The Actual Controversy: The Reserve Bank of India: Bulwark of the Indian Economy: The Bank has also been given certain advisory and

 regulatory functions, but in its position as a central bank, it

 acts as an agency for collecting financial information and

 statistics. The Bank is also entrusted with the role of

 advising the Government and other banks on financial and

 banking matters, and for this purpose, the Bank keeps

 itself informed of the activities and monetary position of

 scheduled and other banks and inspects the books and

 accounts of Scheduled banks and advises the Government

 after inspection of the said books and accounts as to

 whether a particular bank should be included in the

 Second Schedule or not. That the Bank has been created as

 a central bank with powers of supervision, advice and 51 inspection, over banks, particularly those desiring to be

 included in the Second Schedule or those already included

 in the Schedule. The Reserve Bank thus, safeguards the

 economy and the financial stability of the country. This

 Court in the said case also sounded a caveat in stating that

 it cannot be said that the Reserve Bank can never act

 mistakenly or even negligently. b) Subsequently, in Peerless General Finance and

 Investment Co. Ltd. vs. Reserve Bank of India (1992) 2

 SCC 343 this Court once again recognized the status of the

 Reserve Bank in the Indian economy. In the said case it

 was observed that the Reserve Bank of India is a Banker’s

 Bank and a creature of statute. That the Reserve Bank of

 India has a large contingent of expert advice relating to the

 matters affecting the economy of the entire country. It was

 further observed that the Reserve Bank has an important

 role in the economy and financial affairs of India and one of

 its many important functions is to regulate the banking

 system in the country. The aforesaid discussion is relevant for the purpose of

interpreting sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. The said

provision clearly states that it is only on the recommendation of 52 the Central Board of the Bank, that any series of bank notes of

 any denomination shall be declared to have ceased to be legal

 tender. Economic/Fiscal Policies: Interference by Courts

13.3 Before proceeding to interpret the said provision, it would be

 necessary to consider another aspect of the matter which has

 been emphasized by the learned Attorney General, i.e., with

 regard to the Court’s deference to the economic and monetary

 policies of the government and restraint that the Court must

 exercise in interfering with the said policies, unless the same

 are so irrational or unreasonable, so as to be declared to be

 unconstitutional. The above submission was made in the context of the

 contention of the petitioners, that the decision­making process

 in the present case was deeply flawed as it was contrary to the

 scheme and procedure contained in sub­section (2) of Section

 26 of the Act and hence, this Court may review the same and

 declare it to be in contravention, inter­alia, of statutory

 provisions of the Act. The aforesaid contention was vehemently

 opposed by learned Attorney General who submitted that courts

 cannot sit in judgment over economic policy matters of the 53 Government. In this regard the following discussions could be

 made. Judicial Review of Economic Policy: 13.4 What emerges from an understanding of the decisions referred

 to above on the subject of judicial review of economic policy

 may be culled out as under: 13.5 Being mindful of the limited scope of judicial review permissible

 in matters concerning economic policy decisions, I shall limit

 my examination of the matter to such extent as is necessary for

 the purpose of determining whether the process concluding in

 the issuance of the impugned notification was correct or as

 being contrary to sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act and

 allied aspects of the case. It may be stated at this juncture that

 the said aspect of the matter is not one of form but of

 substance. Therefore, examining this aspect of the matter

 would not amount to interfering with, or sitting in judgment

 over the merits of the policy of demonetisation, and is therefore

 well within the limits of the Lakshmanrekha that this Court has

 carefully drawn for itself. 14. Bearing in mind the important role played by the Bank in

shaping the economy of the country, and also the principle that the

Constitutional Courts should refrain from interfering in financial and

economic policy decisions of the government unless such policies are

so irrational as to warrant interference and also having regard to the

provisions of the Constitution, the relevant statutes, and

considerations of public interest, the two contentions raised by the

petitioners shall now be considered in analysing and interpreting Section 26 (2) of the Act. Section 26 of the Act: Interpretation: 15. With a view to lend perspective to the discussion to follow, a

bird’s eye view of my analysis and conclusions has been expressed in a

tabular form as under: ceased to be legal tender; Consultation with the
 or
 Central Board of the
 the Central Government is
 also free to decide in its Bank does not mean
 wisdom that it is not concurrence. The
 expedient to accept the Central Government is
 recommendation of the free to give effect to its
 Bank to declare that “any” proposal for
 series of “any” demonetisation,
 denomination has ceased notwithstanding the
 to be legal tender. In the opinion of the Bank. recommendation by the Central Government: it would be a case of
 excessive vesting of powers
 with the Bank which would
 be arbitrary and
 unconstitutional. 4. Considerations i) To promote general i) Sovereignty and
 for proposed health of the Country’s Integrity of India;
 measure of economy; ii) Security of the State; limited or narrow in Government’s proposal to
 compass. carry out demonetisation
 are broad or wide. 5. Process/Route Issuance of a Notification Enactment of a
 to be followed in the Gazette of India, Parliamentary 63 Sl. Parameters When the proposal for When the proposal for
No. for demonetisation demonetisation
 distinction originates by way of a originates from the
 recommendation by the Central Government: 6. Applicability of Notification issued by the Sub­section (2) of section
 sub­section (2) Central Government, giving 26 of the Act is not
 of section 26 of effect to the Bank’s applicable. section (1) of Section 26 declares that every bank note shall be a

 legal tender at any place in India in payment or on account for

 the amount expressed therein, and shall be guaranteed by the

 Central Government. There are two aspects to this provision: Therefore, on perusal of Sections 24 , 25 and 26 of the Act, it is

 observed that it is only on the recommendation of the Central 65 Board of the Bank that the Central Government would act qua

 the aforestated matters, on the strength of the respective

 provisions. It need not be emphasised that the Bank, being the

 only institution, which carries out the function of currency

 management and formulates credit rules in the country, is

 recognised as having a say in the issuance of currency notes,

 and also in specifying the denominations of the notes, as well as

 the design and form of the bank notes. 15.3 Further, although, sub­section (1) of Section 26 states that

 every Bank note shall be legal tender at any place in India, it

 acquires legal sanctity because the Central Government has

 guaranteed the bank note which has legal tender. Thus, a bank

 note statutorily has dual characteristics when it is issued by the

 Bank, namely, being a legal tender coupled with the guarantee

 of the Central Government and the said qualities go hand in

 hand. This would mean that it is only when the Bank which has

 the sole right to issue a currency note in India, issues the note

 and the same has been guaranteed by the Central Government,

 that such a note is legal tender. Therefore, the Issue

 Department of the Bank is not subject to any liabilities other

 than the liabilities under Section 34 of the Act. Section 34 of the

 Act states that an amount equal to the total of the amount of

 the currency notes of the Government of India and bank notes 66 for the time being in circulation, would be the liability of the

 Issue Department. This would imply that as long as the bank

 notes issued by the Bank are in circulation, the liability of the

 Government of India would continue. The said liability is owing

 to the guarantee given by the Central Government in sub­

 section (1) of Section 26 which is in the nature of a statutory

 guarantee. 15.4 While considering sub­section (1) of Section 26 of the Act, the

 first question that would arise is, whether, a bank note which

 has ceased to be a legal tender on the issuance of a notification

 by the Central Government would also cease to have the

 guarantee of the Central Government. In other words, whether

 the guarantee by the Central Government, would continue

 despite the bank note ceasing to be a legal tender. The answer is

 in the affirmative, for, a bank note may cease to be a legal

 tender between citizens but cannot cease to have the guarantee

 of the Central Government, so long as the liability of the Issue

 Department continues. The liability of the Issue Department of

 the Bank is co­extensive with the time period within which a

 bank note which has ceased to be a legal tender is exchanged at

 a notified bank. It is because of this reason that a bank note of

 any denomination which is demonetised or is declared to have

 ceased to be a legal tender, can be exchanged as indicated in 67 the notification issued by the Central Government so that the

 bearer of the bank note receives an equivalent amount as that

 expressed in the note which has ceased to be a legal tender or

 demonetised. Therefore, even though such demonetised

 currency would cease to be legal tender, the same could be

 exchanged in a bank specified by the Reserve Bank owing to the

 guarantee of the Central Government. If the guarantee of the

 Central Government ceases on demonetisation, then the same

 cannot be exchanged by the bearer of such bank notes. This

 has also been the argument of learned senior counsel Shri

 Shyam Divan. 15.5 Sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act states that on the

 recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, the Central

 Government may, by notification in the Gazette of India, declare

 that with effect from such date as specified in the notification,

 any series of bank notes of any denomination shall cease to be a

 legal tender, save at such office or agency of the Bank and to

 such extent as may be specified in the said notification. The

 Central Government derives the power to issue a notification in

 the Gazette only on the recommendation of the Central Board of

 the Bank. The issuance of such a notification is an executive act

 which is backed by the recommendation of the Central Board of

 the Bank which has been accepted by the Central Government. 68 The notification has to indicate the date from which any series

 of bank notes of any denomination shall cease to be a legal

 tender, save at such office and to such extent as may be

 specified in the notification. 15.6 The essential ingredients of sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the

 Act can be epitomised as under: Therefore, under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the

 Act, the Central Government would act only on the

 recommendation made by the Central Board of the Bank,

 which is the initiator of demonetisation of bank notes.

15.7 Learned Attorney General made a pertinent submission that it

 is not necessary that only on a recommendation of the Central 69 Board of the Bank, the Central Government can demonetise any

currency. That the Central Government has the power or

jurisdiction to demonetise any bank note by the issuance of a

gazette notification. He further contended that the powers of the

Central Government cannot be denuded to such an extent that

unless and until a recommendation of the Central Board of the

Bank is made to the Central Government, the latter cannot

demonetise any currency. According to learned Attorney

General, if such a strict interpretation is given to sub­section (2)

of Section 26 , it would nullify the power of the Central

Government to demonetise any bank note, having regard to the

economic conditions of the country, the financial health of the

economy and the monetary policy of the Government. It was

submitted that the provision must be so interpreted so as to

give a free play in the joints and empower the Central

Government to issue a notification in the Gazette of India, in

order to demonetise any bank note. He further contended that

the requirement of recommendation of the Central Board of the

Bank in order to enable the Central Government to issue a

notification to demonetise any currency would imply that the

initiation of demonetisation must only be from the Central

Board of the Bank and that the Central Government has no

power to initiate such an action of demonetisation. 70 15.8 I find considerable force in the contention of the learned

 Attorney General inasmuch as the Central Government cannot

 be said to be without powers in initiating demonetisation of

 bank notes. This is on the strength of Entry 36 of List I of the

 Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. The Central Government

 is not just concerned with the financial health of the country as

 well as its economy, but it is also concerned with the

 sovereignty and integrity of India; the security of the State; the

 defence of the country; its friendly relations with foreign

 countries; internal and external security and various other

 aspects of governance. On the other hand, the Bank is only

 concerned with the regulation of currency notes, monetary

 policy framework, maintaining price stability and allied matters.

 Therefore, if the Central Government is of the considered

 opinion that in order to meet certain objectives such as the ones

 stated in the impugned notification, namely, to eradicate black

 money, fake currency, terror funding etc., it is necessary to

 demonetise the currency notes in circulation, then the Central

 Government may initiate a proposal for demonetisation.

15.9 The second prong of the Learned Attorney General’s contention

 qua the interpretation of sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act

 was that the Central Government has the power to demonetise

 not just any one series of currency of any one denomination but 71 it has the power to demonetise all series of currencies of all

 denominations at a time. It was argued that the expression

 “any” in sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act must mean “all”.

15.10 Per contra, it was the submission of the learned senior counsel

 for the petitioners that, as the said provision stands, in the

 absence of there being any guidance vis­à­vis the power of the

 Central Government to issue a notification to demonetise the

 currency notes in circulation and in order to save such measure

 from the vice of unconstitutionality, the expression “any series”

 and “any denomination” in sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the

 Act must be restricted to mean “one series” and “one

 denomination”, respectively. Otherwise, it could result in

 arbitrary exercise of power. He further contended that if sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is not read down in this

 context, it would confer unguided and arbitrary power on the

 executive Government and it would amount to impermissible

 delegation of legislative powers. 15.11 It was further contended by Shri Chidambaram that

 demonetisation is resorted to in rare and exceptional

 circumstances and there are two justifiable reasons for which

 demonetisation could be resorted to, namely, 72 1) to weed out denominations of currency that are in disuse or

 are practically unusable; 2) to get rid of currency which has become worthless in value

 because of hyperinflation. According to learned senior counsel for the petitioners, if

any demonetisation of currency has to take place, and if the

power of the Central Government is not channelised or

restricted by reading down sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the

Act, it would result in arbitrariness and unconstitutionality.

Therefore, to save it from the vice of arbitrariness and

unconstitutionality, it is necessary to read down the provision in

the following two respects: 15.12 Since I have accepted the contention of the learned Attorney

 General appearing for Union of India vis­à­vis the power of the

 Central Government for initiating the process of demonetisation,

 the next question would be, whether, the Central Government

 can, on initiating the process of demonetisation, proceed to

 issue a gazette notification to demonetise any or all series of any

 or all denomination of bank notes, on the strength of sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. Consideration of this issue

 would also answer the contention of learned senior counsel for

 the petitioners regarding sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act

 being unguided and arbitrary in nature and hence,

 unconstitutional. To this end, the following aspects have to be

 examined: 15.13 As held hereinabove, the proposal for demonetisation can

 emanate either from the Central Government or from the

 Central Board of the Bank. It is however necessary to contrast

 the proposal for demonetisation initiated by the Central

 Government, with that initiated by the Central Board of the

 Bank. When the Central Board of the Bank recommends

 demonetisation, it is in my view, only for a particular series of

 bank notes of a particular denomination as specified in the

 recommendation made under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of

 the Act. The word “any” in sub­section (2) of Section 26 cannot

 be read to mean “all”. If read as “specified” or “particular” as

 against all, in my view, it would not suffer from arbitrariness or

 suffer from unguided discretion being given to the Central Board

 of the Bank. On the other hand, in my view, the Central Government

 has the power to demonetise all series of bank notes of all

 denominations, if the need for such a measure arises. It cannot

 be restricted in such powers in such manner as the Central

 Board of the Bank is, under the above provision. This is because

 such power is not exercised under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act but is exercised notwithstanding the said provision by

 the Central Government. Therefore, demonetisation of bank

 notes at the behest of the Central Government is a far more 75 serious issue having wider ramifications on the economy and on

 the citizens, as compared to demonetisation of bank notes of a

 given series of a given denomination on the recommendation of

 the Central Board of the Bank by issuance of a gazette

 notification by the Central Government. Therefore, in my considered view, the powers of the Central

 Government being vast, the same have to be exercised only

 through a plenary legislation or a legislative process rather than

 by an executive act by the issuance of a notification in the

 Gazette of India. It is necessary that the Parliament which

 consists of the representatives of the People of this country,

 discusses the matter and thereafter approves and supports the

 implementation of the scheme of demonetisation.

15.14 The Central Government, as already noted above, could have

 several compulsions for initiating demonetisation of the bank

 notes already in circulation in the economy, and it could do so

 even in the absence of a recommendation, as per sub­section (2)

 of Section 26 of the Act, of the Central Board of the Bank. On its

 proposal to demonetise the bank notes, the advice/opinion of

 the Central Board of the Bank which has to be consulted may

 not always be in support of the proposal of the Central

 Government as in the year 1978. The Central Board of the Bank

 may give a negative opinion or a concurring opinion. In either of 76 the situations, the Central Government may proceed to

 demonetise the bank notes but only through a legislative

 process, either through an Ordinance followed by a legislation, if

 the Parliament is not in session; or by a plenary legislation

 before the Parliament and depending upon the passage of the

 Bill as an Act, carry out its proposal of demonetisation. Of

 course, depending upon the urgency of the situation and

 possibly to maintain secrecy, the option of issuance of an

 Ordinance by the President of India and the subsequent

 enactment of a law is always available to the Central

 Government by convening the Parliament. Such demonetisation

 of currency notes at the instance of the Central Government

 cannot be by the issuance of an executive notification. The

 reasons for stating so are not far to see – (i) Firstly, because the Central Government is not acting under

 sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. When the Central

 Government initiates the process of demonetisation it is de hors

 sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. (ii) Secondly, the Central Government has the power to demonetise

 all series of bank notes of all denominations unlike the narrower

 powers vested with the Central Board of the Bank under the

 aforesaid provision, if the situation so arises. 77 (iii) Thirdly, the Parliament which is the fulcrum in our democratic

 system of governance, must be taken into confidence. This is

 because it is the representative of the people of the Country. It

 is the pivot of any democratic country and in it rest the

 interests of the citizens of the Country. The Parliament enables

 its citizens to participate in the decision­making process of the

 government. A Parliament is often referred to as a “nation in

 miniature”; it is the basis for democracy. A Parliament

 provides representation to the people of a country and makes

 their voices heard. Without a Parliament, a democracy cannot

 thrive; every democratic country needs a Parliament for the

 smooth conduct of its governance and to give meaning to

 democracy in the true sense. The Parliament which is at the

 centre of our democracy cannot be left aloof in a matter of such

 importance. Its views on the subject of demonetisation are

 critical and of utmost importance. Dr. Subhash C. Kashyap in his book, “Parliamentary

 Procedure: Law, Privileges, Practice and Precedents”, 3 rd Ed.,

 (2014), while discussing the functions of the Parliament has

 stated as follows: This position is evident from the use of the word “may” in sub­

 section (2) to Section 26 of the Act. However, what is significant

 is that if demonetisation of any bank note is to take place under

 sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, it is only by issuance of

 a notification in the Gazette of India and not by any other

 method or manner. In other words, the Central Board of the

 Bank must first initiate the process by recommending to the

 Central Government to declare that any series of bank notes of 82 any denomination shall cease to be a legal tender by the

 issuance of a notification. If the Central Government accepts the

 recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, it issues a

 notification in the Gazette of India carrying out the same, which

 is in the nature of an executive function and the publication of

 the notification in the Gazette of India is only a ministerial act.

15.18 Therefore, under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, the

 initiation of the process of demonetisation and the exercise of

 power originates from the Central Board of the Bank which has

 to recommend to the Central Government and the latter may

 accept the recommendation and in such event it would issue a

 gazette notification. In case the Central Government does not

 accept the recommendation, there will be no further action on

 the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank. Thus,

 sub­section (2) of the Section 26 of the Act has inherently a very

 restricted operation, and is limited only to the initiation of

 demonetisation by the Central Board of the Bank and making a

 recommendation in that regard. Issuance of the notification, in

 the Gazette of India, would imply that the Central Government

 has accepted the recommendation of the Central Board of the

 Bank and therefore, has declared that the specified series of

 Bank notes of the specified denomination shall cease to be legal

 tender from the date to be specified in the notification. The 83 operation of sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is thus in a

 very narrow compass and it is reiterated that the said power is

 exercised by the Central Government on acceptance of the

 recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank.

15.19 The reason as to why a wide interpretation as contended by the

 Union of India cannot be given to sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is because a plain reading of the provision as well as a

 contextual understanding, would suggest that it is only when

 the initiation of a proposal for demonetisation is by the Central

 Board of the Bank by making a recommendation to the Central

 Government that the provision would apply. 15.20 This position, however, does not imply that the Central

 Government is bereft of any power or jurisdiction to declare any

 bank note of any denomination to have ceased to be a legal

 tender. As already observed while accepting the contention of

 learned Attorney General, the Central Government in its wisdom

 may also initiate the process of demonetisation as has been

 done in the instant case. But what is important and to be noted

 is that the said power cannot be exercised by the mere issuance

 of an executive notification in the Gazette of India. In other

 words, when the proposal to demonetise any currency note is

 initiated by the Central Government with or without the 84 concurrence of the Central Board of the Bank, it is not an

 exercise of the executive power of the Central Government

 under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. In such a

 situation, as already held, the Central Government would have

 to resort to the legislative process by initiating a plenary

 legislation in the Parliament. 15.21 What is being emphasised is that the Central Government

 cannot act in isolation in such matters. The Central

 Government has to firstly, take the opinion of the Central Board

 of the Bank for the proposed demonetisation. The Central Board

 of the Bank may not accept the proposal of the Central

 Government or may partially concur with the proposal on

 specific aspects. In fact, in 1978, when the then Governor of the

 Bank did not accept the proposal of the Central Government to

 demonetise Rs.5,000/­ and Rs.10,000/­ bank notes, the Central

 Government initiated the said process through the Parliament

 and this culminated in the passing of the Act of 1978. In

 drafting the said legislation, the expert assistance of two officers

 of the Bank was taken so as to fortify the legislation. The said

 legislation was also challenged before this Court in the case of Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah, Devkumar Gopaldas

 Aggarwal vs. Reserve Bank of India (1996) 9 SCC 650 85 whereby the vires of the 1978 Act was ultimately, upheld by this

 Court vide judgement dated 9th August, 1996, after eighteen

 years of its enactment. 15.22 The reasons as to why the Central Government cannot

 unilaterally issue a gazette notification but has to resort to a

 legislation when it initiates the proposal for demonetisation

 have already been discussed. The Central Government may

 have very valid objectives to do so, as in the instant case, i.e., in

 order to eradicate black money, fake currency and prevent

 currency from being utilized for terror funding. But, those

 objects would not be the objects with which the Central Board

 of the Bank may make a recommendation under sub­section (2)

 of Section 26 of the Act. The reason being, the Central

 Government would view the entire scheme of demonetisation in

 a larger perspective, having several objects in mind and in the

 interest of the sovereignty and integrity of the India, the

 security of the State, the financial health of the economy, etc.

 The Central Board of the Bank may not be in a position to

 visualize such objectives. Under such circumstances the

 Central Government must consult the Bank but need not

 mandatorily obtain the imprimatur of the Central Board of the

 Bank to its proposal. What if the Central Board of the Bank,

 when consulted by the Central Government, gives a negative 86 opinion? Would it mean that the Central Government would

 then not resort to demonetisation in deference to the opinion of

 the Central Board of the Bank? It may do so if it finds that the

 opinion tendered by the Bank is just and proper, but the

 Central Government may have its own reasons for not accepting

 the opinion of the Central Board of the Bank and therefore, in

 such a situation the Central Government will have to resort to

 initiate the proposal for demonetisation through a plenary

 legislation, by way of introduction of a Bill in the Parliament

 resulting in an Act of Parliament. 15.23 Therefore, the sum and substance of the discussion is that

 when the Central Board of the Bank initiates or originates the

 proposal for demonetisation of any series of bank notes of any

 denomination, it has to make a recommendation to the Central

 Government as per sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. The

 Central Government may act on such recommendation by

 issuing a gazette notification. On the other hand, when the

 Central Government is the originator of the proposal for

 demonetisation of any currency note as in the instant case, it

 has to seek the advice of the Central Board of the Bank, for, it

 cannot afford to proceed in isolation and without bringing the

 said proposal to the notice of the Central Board of the Bank

 having regard to the important position the Bank holds in the 87 Indian economy. Irrespective of the opinion of the Central

 Board of the Bank to the Central Government’s proposal, the

 legislative route would have to be taken by the Central

 Government for furthering its objective/s of demonetisation of

 bank notes. Thus, the same cannot be carried out by the

 issuance of a simple notification in the Gazette of India

 declaring that all bank notes or currency notes are

 demonetised. This is because when the Central Government is

 the originator of a proposal for demonetisation, it is acting de

 hors sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act.

15.24 Such an interpretation is necessary as it is the contention of the

 Union of India that the Central Government has the power to

 demonetise “all” series of bank notes of “all” denominations

 which would mean that every Rs.1/­, Rs.5/­, Rs.10/­, Rs.20/­,

 Rs.50/­, Rs.100/­, Rs.500/­, Rs.1,000/­, Rs.5,000/­,

 Rs.10,000/­, could be demonetised. Since the same is possible

 theoretically, in my view, such an extensive power cannot be

 exercised by issuance of a simple gazette notification in exercise

 of an executive power of the Central Government as if it is one

 under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. The same can

 only be through a plenary legislation, by way of an enactment

 following a meaningful debate in Parliament, on the proposal of

 the Central Government. This would also answer the other 88 contention of the learned senior counsel for the petitioners that

 sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act cannot be interpreted to

 mean “all series” of bank notes of “all denominations” when the

 words used in the provision are “any series” of “any

 denomination”. Deciphering the plain meaning of sub­section (2) of Section 26 : This is because the power of the Central Government to do so is

 vast and has a wider spectrum. Such a power is not traceable to

 sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act which operates in a

 narrower compass. Hence, to save sub­section (2) of Section 26 from the vice of unconstitutionality, it must be given an

 interpretation appropriate to the object for which the provision

 is intended. In this context, the following principles become

 relevant. 15.26 When the words of a statute are clear, plain or unambiguous,

 i.e., they are reasonably susceptible to only one meaning, the

 court is bound to give effect to that meaning and admit only one

 meaning and no question of construction of a statute arises,

 for, the provision/Act would speak for itself. The judicial dicta

 relevant to the above principle of interpretation are as follows: Context in this connection is used in a wide sense as

 including not only other enacting provisions of the same

 statute, but its preamble, the existing state of the law, other

 statutes in pari materia and the mischief which by those

 and other legitimate means can be discerned that the

 statute was intended to remedy. [Source: Interpretation of Statutes by Justice G.P. Singh,

 15th Edition]

15.27 Applying the above rule, if sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the

 Act is read as per the plain meaning of the words of the

 provision, then it does not lead to any ambiguity. The plain

 meaning rule is the golden rule of construction of statutes and

 it does not lead to any absurdity in the instant case. On a plain

 reading of the provision, it is observed that the Central

 Government can issue a notification in the Gazette of India to

 demonetise any series of bank notes of any denomination but

 only on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank.

 In my view sub­section (2) of Section 26 is not vitiated by

 unconstitutionality. This is for two reasons: firstly, the plain

 meaning of the words “any” series of bank notes of “any

 denomination” would not imply “all series” of bank notes of “all

 denominations”. The word “any” means specified or particular 92 and not “all” as contended by the respondents. If the contention

 of the Union of India is accepted and the word “any” is to be

 read as “all”, it would lead to disastrous consequences as the

 Central Board of the Bank cannot be vested with the power to

 recommend demonetisation of “all series of currency of all

 denominations”. The interpretation suggested by learned

 Attorney General would lead to vesting of unguided power in

 the Central Board of the Bank whereas giving a wider power to

 the Central Government to initiate such a demonetisation

 wherein all series of a denomination could be demonetised is

 appropriate as it is expected to consider all pros and cons from

 various angles and then to initiate demonetisation on a large

 scale through a legislative process. Such a power is vested only

 in the Central Government by virtue of Entry 36 of List I of the

 Seventh Schedule of the Constitution which of course has to be

 exercised by means of a plenary legislation and not by issuance

 of a gazette notification under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of

 the Act. Hence, the word “any” cannot be interpreted to mean

 “all” having regard to the context in which it is used in the said

 provision. 15.28 Secondly, any recommendation of the Central Board of the

 Bank under sub­section (2) of Section 26 is not binding on the

 Central Government. If the Central Government does not accept 93 the recommendation of the Bank then no notification would be

 published in the Gazette of India by it. In fact, the Central

 Government is not bound by the recommendation made by the

 Central Board of the Bank to demonetise any bank note,

 although, the Central Board of the Bank may comprise of

 experts in matters relating to finance, having knowledge and

 experience of economic affairs of the country and such

 knowledge may be reflected in the recommendation made to the

 Central Government. As already noted, the Central Government

 has the option to accept the said recommendation and

 accordingly issue a gazette notification or elect not to act on the

 same. However, the Central Government should consider the

 recommendation with all seriousness and in its wisdom take an

 appropriate decision in the matter. 16. In the instant case, on perusal of the records submitted by

Union of India and the Bank, it is noted that the proposal for

demonetisation had been initiated by the Central Government by

writing a letter to the Bank on 7th November, 2016 and not by the

Central Board of the Bank. On the very next evening i.e., on 8 th

November, 2016 at 05:30 p.m., there was a meeting of the Central

Board of the Bank at New Delhi and a Resolution was passed and a

little while thereafter on the same evening, the notification was issued

invoking sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act by the Central 94 Government. Such a procedure is not contemplated under sub­section

(2) of Section 26 of the Act when the proposal for demonetisation is

initiated by the Central Government. 16.1 Hence, it is held that in the instant case the Central

 Government could not have exercised power under sub­section

 (2) of Section 26 of the Act in the issuance of the impugned

 gazette Notification dated 8th November, 2016. It is further held

 that in the present case, the object and the purpose of issuance

 of an Ordinance and thereafter, the enactment of the 2017 Act

 by the Parliament was, in my view, to give a semblance of

 legality to the exercise of power by issuance of the Notification

 on 8th November, 2016. In fact, Section 3 of the Ordinance as

 well as Section 3 of the Act makes this explicit. The same is

 extracted as under for immediate reference: “3. On and from the appointed day,
 notwithstanding anything contained in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or any other law
 for the time being in force, the specified bank
 notes which have ceased to be legal tender, in view of
 the notification of the Government of India in the
 Ministry of Finance, number S.O. 3407(E), dated the
 8th November, 2016, issued under sub­section (2)
 of section 26 of the Reserve Bank of India Act,
 1934, shall cease to be liabilities of the Reserve
 Bank under section 34 and shall cease to have
 the guarantee of the Central Government under
 sub­section (1) of section 26 of the said Act.”
 (Emphasis by me) 95 The said Section has an inherent contradiction inasmuch

as the Section has a non­obstante clause vis­à­vis the Act or any

other law for the time being in force but at the same time, the

said provision refers to Sections 26 as well as Section 34 of the

Act. A non­obstante clause such as “notwithstanding anything

contained in the Act or in any law for the time being in force”, is

sometimes appended to a section, with a view to give the

enacting part of that section in case of conflict, an overriding

effect over the provision or Act mentioned in the non obstante

clause. The following are the judicial dicta on the point which

bring out the use of a non­obstante clause: The effect of insertion of a non­obstante clause into a

provision in a legislation, is that the very consideration arising

from the provisions sought to be excluded, shall be excluded,

vide Madhav Rao Scindia vs. Union of India (1971) 1 SCC 85.

 Applying the aforesaid principles to interpret Section 3 of

the 2017 Act, it is observed that the non­obstante clause

contained in the said provision has the effect of overriding the

provisions of the Act as they are not applicable to the provisions

and processes under the 2016 Ordinance and the 2017 Act. It

is significant to note that the said Section contains a non­

obstante clause which reads, “notwithstanding anything 97 contained in the Act or any other law for the time being in

force”. This is rightly so as the demonetisation is not in

exercise of the powers under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the

Act. However, Section 3 of the 2017 Act goes on to state that

the specified bank notes which have ceased to be legal

tender, in view of the notification dated 8th November, 2016

issued under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, shall

cease to impose liabilities on the Bank under Section 34 of the

Act and shall cease to have the guarantee of the Central

Government under sub­section (1) of Section 26 of the Act.

Therefore, while the impugned gazette notification dated 8th

November, 2016 has been admittedly issued exercising powers

under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, Section 3 of the

2017 Act also states that it is notwithstanding anything

contained in the Act. If it is so, then the impugned notification

could not have been issued invoking sub­section (2) of Section

26 of the Act. The liability could have so ceased, if the power

that had been exercised by the Central Government for the

issuance of the notification dated 8 th November, 2016 impugned

herein, under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act on the

recommendation made by the Central Board of the Bank. That

is, when the initiation of demonetisation or the proposal came

from the Central Board of the Bank, leading to the issuance of 98 the notification by the Central Government. Had the measure

 of demonetisation been carried out by way of enactment of a

 plenary legislation, then the non­obstante clause could have

 been employed to exclude the applicability of the Act. However,

 having sought to rely on sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act

 to issue the Notification, not only is the non­obstante clause

 misplaced but it also gives rise to a contradiction as to on what

 basis the Notification dated 8th November, 2016 has been

 issued. Affidavits and Record of the Case: 17.3 On a reading of the records listed hereinabove, the following

 facts emerge: The desire of the Central Government to proceed with

 the measure of demonetisation was expressed in the said

 letter and a request was made to the Bank to consider

 recommending the such measure, in terms of the relevant

 clauses of the Act. 2) Further, the Draft Memorandum of the Deputy Governor of

 the Bank, placed before the Central Board of the Bank,

 categorically states that the need for a meeting to deliberate

 on the proposed measure of demonetisation, had arisen

 pursuant to the letter addressed to the Bank from the

 Central Government dated 7th November, 2016. The Draft

 Memorandum further records that the Government had

 “recommended” that the withdrawal of the tender

 character of existing Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­ notes, is

 apposite. Further, the said document records that “as desired”

 by the Central Government, a draft scheme for

 implementation of the scheme of demonetisation had also

 been enclosed. 3) In view of the contents of the Draft Memorandum, the

 Central Board of the Bank in its 561 st Meeting commended

 the Central Government’s proposal for demonetisation and

 directed that the same be forwarded to the Central

 Government. 4) Accordingly, a letter was addressed by the Deputy

 Governor of the Bank to the Central Government on 8 th

 November, 2016, stating therein that the proposal of the

 Central Government pertaining to withdrawal of legal

 tender of bank notes of denominational values of Rs. 500/­

 and Rs. 1,000/­ was placed before the Central Board of the

 Bank in its 561st meeting. It was also stated that necessary

 recommendation to proceed with the said proposal, had

 been “obtained” from the Central Board of the Bank.

17.4 On a comparative reading of the records submitted by the

 Union of India as well as the Reserve Bank of India, it becomes

 crystal clear that the process of demonetisation of all series of

 bank notes of denominational values of Rs. 500/­ and Rs.

 1,000/­, commenced/originated from the Central Government.

 The said fact is crystalised in the communication addressed by

 the Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of

 Finance, dated 7th November, 2016 to the Governor of the Bank. 102 The phrases and words emphasized hereinabove clearly

indicate that the proposal for demonetisation was from the

Central Government. In substance, the Central Government

sought the opinion/advice of the Bank on such proposal. The use of the words/phrases such as, “as desired” by

the Central Government; Government had “recommended”

the withdrawal of the legal tender of existing Rs.500/­ and

Rs.1,000/­ notes; recommendation has been “obtained”; etc.,

are self­explanatory. This demonstrates that there was no

independent application of mind by the Bank. Neither was there

any time for the Bank to apply its mind to such a serious issue.

This observation is being made having regard to the fact that

the entire exercise of demonetisation of all series of bank notes

of Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­ was carried out in twenty four

hours. A situation where an independent authority such as the

Bank, based on its own appreciation of the economic climate of

the country, recommends a measure to the Central

Government, must be contrasted with another situation where

a measure which originates from the Central Government is

simply placed before such independent authority for seeking its

advice or opinion on such proposed measure. A proposal of the 103 Central Government on a certain scheme having serious

 economic ramifications has to be placed before the Bank to seek

 its expert opinion as to the viability of such a scheme. The Bank

 as an expert body may render advice on such a proposal and on

 some occasions may even concur with the same. However, even

 such concurrence to a proposal originating from the Central

 Government is not akin to an original recommendation of the

 Central Board of the Bank, within the meaning of Section 26 (2) of the Act. 17.5 The following points emerge on perusal of the affidavits

 submitted on behalf of the Union of India: 17.6 The following points emerge upon perusal of the affidavits

 submitted on behalf of the Bank: 17.7 On a conjoint reading of the affidavits submitted by the Union of

 India and the Bank, the following deductions may be drawn: 17.8 In my view, there is contradiction as to the subject of

 demonetisation, as well the object thereof, as stated by the

 Bank vis­à­vis the Central Government as discernible from the

 affidavits. The same may be expressed as follows: ii) incentivisinguse ii) counterfeiting,
 n iii) illegal
 of electronic modes of
 financing. The object of the measure and the subject are of relevance,

 in assessing the resolution of the Bank dated 8 th November,

 2016 because, the said considerations would have a bearing on 107 the question, whether, the Bank’s opinion was in consonance

 with the object sought to be achieved through demonetisation

 by the Central Government’s proposal. 17.9 On a close reading of the Notification dated 8 th November, 2016,

 in juxtaposition with the records, the following aspects emerge: Legal Principles applicable to the case: 18. There are certain legal principles which are applicable in this

case: one is expressed in the maxim “to do a thing a particular way or

not at all”; this principle has also been expressed in terms of the latin

maxim “expressio unius est exclusio alterius”, which means that when

a manner is specified for doing a certain thing, then all other modes for

carrying out such act are expressly excluded; and the other principle

is, exercise of discretion which is a well known principle in

Administrative Law. The same would be discussed at this stage.

18.1 The first principle which is of relevance to the controversy at

 hand is that, where a power is given to do a certain thing in a

 certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not at all

 and other methods of performance are necessarily forbidden

 vide, Taylor vs. Taylor (1875) 1 Ch D 426. Hence, when a

 statute requires a particular thing to be done in a particular

 manner, it must be done in that manner or not at all and other

 methods of performance are necessarily forbidden, vide Nazir

 Ahmed vs. King Emperor (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 372.

18.2 This Court too, has applied this maxim in the following cases: What emerges from the above discussion is that when a

statute contemplates a specific procedure to be adhered to in

order to arrive at a desired end, such procedure cannot be

substituted by an alternative procedure which is not

contemplated under the statute. Further, if an action is to be

carried out by way of issuance of a particular statutory

instrument on the basis of certain requirements, such action

cannot be validly carried out by way of issuance of an

instrument when the same is not contemplated under the Act.

This is particularly so when the instrument enacted stands on a

different footing than the one meant to be enacted. 113 Applying the said principle to the facts of the present case,

 it is observed that what ought to have been done through a

 Parliamentary enactment or plenary legislation, could not have

 been carried out by simply issuing a notification under sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act by the Central Government.

 As noted hereinabove, the said provision does not apply to cases

 where the proposal for demonetisation originates from the

 Central Government and the same is not envisaged under the

 Act. Hence, issuance a notification to give effect to the Central

 Government’s proposal for demonetisation, was clearly based on

 an incorrect understanding of sub­section (2) of Section 26 of

 the Act. The Central Government did not follow the procedure

 contemplated under law to give effect to its proposal for

 demonetisation. This is not a matter of form but one of

 substance as in law, the powers of the Central Board of the

 Bank and the Central Government are totally distinct in the

 matter of demonetisation of bank notes. 19. The other legal principle is concerning exercise of discretion in

Administrative Law. Lords Halsbury in Sharp vs. Wakefield 1891 AC

173 described the concept of discretion in the following words: As noted from the records submitted by the Central

Government as well as the Reserve Bank of India in the instant

case, the Central Government wrote to the Central Board of the

Reserve Bank of India on 7 th of November, 2016 about its

proposal to demonetise all series of bank notes of

denominations of Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­, which were in

circulation, and on the very next day i.e., 8 th November, 2016, a

meeting of the Central Board of the Bank was held at New Delhi

at 05:30 p.m. and shortly thereafter, the gazette notification was

issued. Such a swift action would indicate that the Central

Board of the Bank had hardly twenty­four hours to consider the 116 proposal of the Central Government and hence, hardly any time

 to apply its mind independently to the proposal. It is clear from

 the records submitted that the Central Government “assured”

 the Central Board of the Bank that sufficient safeguards would

 be taken while embarking on the process of demonetisation and

 that it would also result in reducing bank notes in the economy

 and a switch over to the digitalisation of the economy. The

 Central Board of the Bank, in resolving to opine on the measure

 of demonetisation to the Central Government, acted only on

 such “assurances”. 19.3 Further, the Central Government cannot in the guise of seeking

 an opinion on its proposal to demonetise bank notes, “obtain” a

 “recommendation from the Central Board of the Bank” as if it is

 acting under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, and

 consequently, issue a gazette notification by which

 demonetisation of bank notes would be given effect to. Such a

 procedure, in my view, would be contrary to the import of sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, inasmuch as the Central

 Government cannot act under the said provision by the

 issuance of a notification, as if a “recommendation” has been

 made by the Central Board of the Bank when in fact, what

 actually transpired in the instant case, was that the Central 117 Government initiated the process of demonetisation by

 formulating a proposal in this regard and subsequently secured

 the imprimatur of the Bank on such proposal. In fact, the

 Central Board of the Bank has no jurisdiction to “recommend”

 demonetisation of bank notes of “all series” of “all

 denomination” to the Central Government, as already held

 above. 19.4 The powers of the Central Board of the Bank are restrictive in

 nature inasmuch as it can only recommend that a particular

 series of a particular denomination would cease to be legal

 tender. Hence, the Central Government cannot rely on the

 semblance of a “recommendation made to it by the Central

 Board of the Bank under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the

 Act” when it initiates the process of demonetisation. The Central

 Government also cannot “obtain” any recommendation to that

 effect, and if it has done so, it would imply that the Central

 Board of the Bank is acting at the behest of the Central

 Government, only to concur with what the Central Government

 intends to do. Such an opinion would not be on the basis of any

 independent application of mind of the experts who form the

 Central Board of the Bank. Moreover, when the Central

 Government seeks the opinion of the Central Board of the Bank

 to its proposal for demonetisation, the latter would have to be 118 given some time to consider the pros and cons and the impact

 that it would have on the citizens of India, as bank notes are a

 species of negotiable instruments and a medium through which

 goods and services are traded and therefore, they are the lifeline

 of the economy. The Central Government also failed to indicate

 that the demonetised currency had lost the guarantee provided

 vide sub­section (1) of Section 26 of the Act in the impugned

 notification. Hence, an Ordinance had to be issued on 30 th

 December, 2016. Moreover, it is not known whether the Bank

 had made arrangements for printing sufficient new notes for

 exchange of demonetised currency. It is also not known whether

 the Department of Legal Affairs was consulted in the matter as

 the procedure of demonetisation involves legal implications.

19.5 Hence, in my considered view, the action of demonetisation

 initiated by the Central Government by issuance of the

 impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016 was an exercise

 of power contrary to law and therefore unlawful. Consequently,

 the 2016 Ordinance and 2017 Act are also unlawful. But,

 having regard to the fact that the demonetisation process was

 given effect to from 8th November, 2016 onwards, the status quo

 ante cannot be restored at this point of time.

What relief may be awarded in the present case? 119 20. In view of the above conclusion, the question of moulding the

relief shall now be considered. According to the petitioners, around 86

per cent of the volume of currency notes of the total currency in

circulation in the Indian economy was demonetised. They also stated

that the people of India were exposed to undue hardships owing to the

lack of financial resources and had to undergo not only a severe

financial crunch but were also exposed to other socio­economic and

psychological hardships. The problems associated with the measure of

demonetisation would make one wonder whether the Central Board of

the Bank had visualised the consequences that would follow. Whether

the Central Board of the Bank had attempted to take note of the

adverse effects of demonetisation of such a large volume of bank notes

in circulation? The objective of the Central Government may have been

sound, just and proper, but the manner in which the said objectives

were achieved and the procedure followed for the same, in my view was

not in accordance with law having regard to the interpretation given

above. It has also been brought on record that around 98% of the value

of the demonetised currency have been exchanged for bank notes

which continues to be legal tender. Also, a new series of bank notes of

Rs.2,000/­ was released by the Bank. This would suggest that the

measure itself may not have proved to be as effective as it was hoped

to be. However, this Court does not base its decision on the legality of 120 a legislation, qua the effectiveness of such action in achieving the

stated objectives. Therefore, it is clarified that any relief moulded in the

present cases is de hors considerations of success of the measure.

20.1 I have borne in mind the submissions of learned Attorney

 General appearing on behalf of the Union of India to the effect

 that the objectives of the Central Government have been sound,

 just and proper, but in my view, the manner in which the said

 objectives were achieved and the procedure followed for the

 same was not in accordance with law having regard to the

 interpretation given above. Learned Attorney General appearing on behalf of the Union

 of India also contended that the issues raised in these petitions

 have become infructuous and wholly academic as the action of

 demonetisation has been acted upon and therefore, the present

 cases are only of academic significance. It is necessary to

 examine the nature of relief that could be moulded by the Court

 in this matter. 20.2 There are several judgments which could be relied upon in this

 context: 20.3 In the instant case, the elementary question that requires

 determination is, whether the challenge to the validity of the

 Central Government’s decision dated 8 th November, 2016 to

 demonetise all Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­ bank notes, having

 been adjudicated upon, at this juncture, i.e., after a lapse of

 over six years since the impugned action was carried out, the

 nature of relief that could be granted by this Court at this

 juncture is to be considered. 20.4 Stated very patently, the controversy in the present cases

 relates to the true meaning and interpretation of sub­section (2)

 of Section 26 of the Act. Therefore, the question that arises for

 consideration is, whether, this Court can declare the law as to

 the validity of an action, even after such action has been given

 effect to in toto. That is to say, once the action has been

 completely carried out, and there is no element of such action

 which is left to be carried out, can there still be a subsequent

 declaration by this Court as to the validity of such act, having

 regard to the interpretation accorded to the provisions of the

 relevant statute. 20.5 As discussed hereinabove, this Court has acknowledged on

 several occasions that it has the competence to declare the law

 on a subject for posterity, even though no substantive relief may

 be given under the circumstances of a given case, vide S.R.

 Bommai. The effect of such declaration would apply

 prospectively. That is, in the present case if a declaration is

 made to the effect that the impugned action was unlawful, such

 declaration would only have the effect of deterring future

 measures from being carried out in a like manner, in order to

 save such measures, from the vice of unlawfulness. Such

 declarations as to validity or invalidity of a measure, may be

 made by this Court in exercise of its power under Article 141 of

 the Constitution, and the effect of such declaration may be

 moulded or restricted by exercising the power vested with this

 Court under Article 142. 20.6 Reference may also be had to the decision of this Court in Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah, Devkumar Gopaldas

 Aggarwal vs. Reserve Bank of India AIR 1997 SC 370. The

 said case pertains to the challenge to the Constitutional validity

 of the High Denomination Bank Notes (Demonetisation) Act,

 1978 . Although the enactment related to the year 1978 and its

 effects were immediate, as in the present case, the validity of the 124 same was conclusively declared by this Court only in the year

 1997. This Court, while upholding the validity of the legislation

 impugned therein, authoritatively clarified and declared the law

 on the Parliamentary power to enact such a legislation. A

 declaration of a similar nature, i.e., as to the validity or

 invalidity of the impugned actions and Notification, is what is

 sought for in the present petitions. Conclusions: 21. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the following conclusions are

arrived at: In such circumstances when the Central Government is initiating

 the process of demonetisation, it would not be acting under sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act but notwithstanding the said

 provision through a legislative process. (vii) When such power is exercised by the Central Government by

 means of a legislation, it is by virtue of Entry 36, List I of the

 Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India which deals with

 currency, coinage and legal tender; foreign exchange which is a

 field of legislation. Hence, the power of the Central Government to

 demonetise any currency is notwithstanding anything

 contained in Section 26 of the Act. (viii) When the Central Government proposes demonetisation of any

 bank note, it must seek the opinion of the Central Board of the

 Bank having regard to the fact that the Bank is the sole authority

 to regulate circulation of bank notes and secure monetary stability

 and generally to operate the currency and credit system of the

 country and to maintain price stability. (ix) The opinion of the Central Board of the Bank ought to be an

 independent and frank opinion after a meaningful discussion by

 the Central Board of the Bank which ought to be given its due

 weightage having regard to the ramifications it may have on the

 Indian economy and the citizens of India although it may not be

 binding on the Central Government. On receipt of a negative

 opinion from the Central Board of the Bank, the Central

 Government which has initiated the demonetisation process may

 still intend to go ahead with the said process after weighing the

 pros and cons only by means of an Ordinance and/or

 Parliamentary legislation but not by issuance of a gazette

 notification. In other words, the Central Government in such

 circumstances cannot resort to exercise of power under sub­

 section (2) of Section 26 of the Act by issuing a notification in the

 Gazette of India as if it were exercising executive powers. Even if

 the Central Board of the Bank concurs with the proposal of the

 Central Government, the Central Government would have to 128 undertake a legislative process and not carry out the measure by

 simply issuing a gazette notification. (x) In view of the aforesaid conclusions, I am of the considered view

 that the impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016 issued

 under sub­section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is unlawful. In the

 circumstances, the action of demonetisation of all currency notes

 of Rs.500/­ and Rs.1,000/­ is vitiated. (xi) Further, the subsequent Ordinance of 2016 and Act of 2017

 incorporating the terms of the impugned notification are also

 unlawful. (xii) However, having regard to the fact that the impugned notification

 dated 8th November, 2016 and the Act have been acted upon, the

 declaration of law made herein would apply prospectively and

 would not affect any action taken by the Central Government or

 the Bank pursuant to the issuance of the Notification dated 8 th

 November, 2016. This direction is being issued having regard to Article 142 of the Constitution of India. Hence, no relief is being

 granted in the individual matters. (xiii) In view of the above conclusions, I do not think it is necessary to

 answer the other questions raised in the reference order. 22. Before parting, I wish to observe that demonetisation was an

initiative of the Central Government, targeted to address disparate 129 evils, plaguing the Nation’s economy, including, practices of hoarding

“black” money, counterfeiting, which in turn enable even greater evils,

including terror funding, drug trafficking, emergence of a parallel

economy, money laundering including Havala transactions. It is

beyond the pale of doubt that the said measure, which was aimed at

eliminating these depraved practices, was well­intentioned. The

measure is reflective of concern for the economic health and security

of the country and demonstrates foresight. At no point has any

suggestion been made that the measure was motivated by anything

but the best intentions and noble objects for the betterment of the

Nation. The measure has been regarded as unlawful only on a purely

legalistic analysis of the relevant provisions of the Act and not on the

objects of demonetisation. 23. In view of the answer given by me to question no.1 of the

reference order, I do not deem it necessary to answer all other

questions of the reference order or even the questions reframed by His

Lordship B.R. Gavai, J. during the course of the judgment except to

the extent discussed above. 24. In the result, the writ petitions, special leave petitions and

transfer petitions are directed to be posted before the appropriate

Bench after seeking orders from Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India. 130 I would like to acknowledge and place on record my appreciation

for the learned Attorney General for India, all learned senior counsel,

learned instructing counsel as well as the learned counsel, for their

assistance in the matter. Parties to bear their respective costs. ………………...…….J.
 [B. V. NAGARATHNA]
NEW DELHI,
2 JANUARY, 2023.