1. The Petitioner has invoked the extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court bestowed by Article 226 of the Constitution praying for the following reliefs. (c ) issue an appropriate writ(s) in the nature of mandamus directing the respondents No.1 and 2 to make payments against the Bank Guarantees being Annexs P-5 (Colly.); (d) issue an appropriate writ(s) in the nature of certiorary by calling for the records and quashing the impugned letters of repudiation dated 26.7.97 (Annexs. P-9 Colly); (e) issue an appropriate writ in the nature of prohibition or any other appropriate writ or direction restraining the respondents No.1 and 2 from acting in terms of the impugned letters dated 26.7.97 (Annexs. P-9 Colly.); (f) issue such appropriate writ(s) as to this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case; (g) issue rule nisi; (h) make the said rule absolute after return of notice, and (i) pass such further or other order(s) as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper for the ends of justice. 2. Preliminary objections have been raised by the Punjab & Sind Bank (Respondents 1 and 2 herein) asserting that the writ petition is not maintainable as the matter involves frauds, conspiracy and the forgery of several Bank Guarantees in respect of which First Information Reports had been lodged by the Bank. The Bank Guarantees have allegedly been procured by Respondents 3 and 4 by circumventing the procedure established by the Bank. It is submitted by the Bank that the question of issue of Bank Guarantees is a contractual obligation of the parties and for this reason ought not to be adjudicated in the writ forum; the writ petition is not maintainable even otherwise since there is an efficacious remedy available to the Petitioners by way of a civil suit in which the various questions which have arisen can be adjudicated on the basis of evidence. Mention has also been made by the Bank to the complaint lodged by the Petitioners before the Banking Ombudsman which had rejected it and had declined to intervene in the legal wrangle in view of the allegations of fraud, cheating and forgery which is the subject matter of investigation by the Police. The Petitioner has itself annexed the FIR dated 24.7.1997 in which it has also been brought to the notice of the Police that the Manager who had allegedly executed the Bank Guarantees, is absconding. 3. The facts in brief are that the Plaintiff had supplied steel to Respondents 3 and 4 against their furnishing Bank Guarantees as an additional security. It appears that the cheques forwarded by these Respondents were dishonoured and these Respondents are no longer locatable. A civil suit for the recovery of the sale price has been filed by the Petitioner against Respondents 3 and 4 in which the Bank is not a party. 4. The law pertaining to Bank Guarantees has been spelt out in great detail by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a catena of cases. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has explained and enunciated the law on this interesting and important aspect of law on several occasions. In Centax (India) Ltd. v. Vinmar Impex Inc. and Ors. , it has been stated that a Bank Guarantee resembles and is analogous to Letters of Credit and would therefore attract similar jural considerations and handling. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has in Tarapore and Co., Madras v. V.O Tractors Export Moscow and Anr. , elaborately and perspicuously explained the scope and ambit of judicial interference in matters concerning Letter of Credit and Bank Guarantee in these words-- The scope of an irrevocable letter of credit is explained thus in Halsbury's Laws of England (Vol.34, Paragraph 319 at page 185): Chalmers on "Bills of Exchange" explains the legal position in these words
 "The modern commercial credit serves to interpose between a buyer and seller a third person of un-questioned solvency, almost invariably a banker of international repute; the banker on the instructions of the buyer issues the letter of credit and thereby undertakes to act as paymaster upon the seller performing the conditions set out in it. A letter of credit may be in any one of a number of specialised forms and contains the undertaking of the banker to honour all bills of exchange drawn there under. It can hardly be over-emphasised that the banker is not bound or entitled to honour such bills of exchange unless they, and such accompanying documents as may be required there under, are in exact compliance with the terms of the credit. Such documents must be scrutanised with meticulous care, the maxim de minimis non curat lex cannot be invoked where payment is made by the letter of credit. If the seller has complied with the terms of the letter of credit, however, there is an absolute obligation upon the banker to pay irrespective of any disputes there may be between the buyer and the seller as to whether the goods are up to contract or not" In Urquhart Lindsay and Co. Ltd. v. Eastern Bank Ltd., 1922-1 KB 318 the King's Bench held that the refusal of the defendants bank to take and pay for the particular bills on presentation of the proper documents constituted a repudiation of the contract as a whole and that the plaintiffs were entitled to damages arising from such a breach. It may be noted that in that case the price quoted in the invoices was objected to by the buyer and he had notified his objection to the bank. But under the terms of the letter of credit the bank was required to make payments on the basis of the invoices tendered by the seller. The court held that if the buyers had an enforceable claim that adjustment must be made by way of refund by the seller and not by the way of retention by the buyer. 11. Similar opinions have been expressed by the American Courts. The leading American case on the subject is Dulien Steel Products Inc., of Washington v. Bankers Trust Co., Federal Reporter 2nd Series, 298 p.836. The facts of that case are as follows: The opening of a confirmed letter of credit constitutes a bargain between the banker and the vendor of the goods which imposes on the banker an absolute obligation to pay. A banker issuing or confirming an irrevocable credit usually undertakes to honour drafts negotiated, or to reimburse in respect of drafts paid, by the paying or negotiating intermediate banker and the credit is thus in the hands of the beneficiary binding against the banker. A letter of credit constitute the sole contract with the banker and a bank issuing or confirming a letter of credit is not concerned with the underlying contract between the buyer an seller. Duties of a bank under a letter of credit are created by the document itself, but in any case it has the power and is subject to the limitations which are given or imposed by it, in the absence of the appropriate provisions in the letter of credit. The banker owes a duty to the buyer to ensure that the documents tendered by the sellers under a credit are complied with those for which the credit calls and which are embodied in terms of paying or negotiating bank The description of the goods in the relative bill of exchange must be the same description in the letter of credit, that it, the goods themselves must in each be described in identical terms, even though the goods differently described in the two documents are, in fact, the same. It is the description of the goods that is all important and if the description is not identical it is the paying bank's duty to refuse payment. 6. The following paragraphs of the Judgment in U.P. Coop. Federation v. Singh Consultants and Engineers (P) Ltd. , is extremely instructive: 7. In Hindustan Steel Works Construction Ltd. V. Tarapore and Co. , , the following observations are made: 8. In U.P. State Sugar Corporation v. Sumac International Limited , the circumstances in which the invocation of a Bank Guarantee or payments made pursuant thereto could be interdicted, had been Restated. While spelling out the essentials of fraud and/or irretrievable injustice in this context, the Apex Court had returned the following observations:- 9. More recently, in the Federal Bank Limited v. V.M. Jog Engineering Limited and Ors. , (2001) 1 SCC 663 the Apex Court had in circumstances strikingly similar to the present recorded the following enunciation of law -- In several judgments of this Court, it has been held that courts ought not to grant injunction to restrain encashment of bank guarantees or letters of credit. Two exceptions have been mentioned - (i) fraud, and (ii) irretrievable damage. If the plaintiff is prima facie able to establish that the case comes within these two exceptions, temporary injunction under Order 39 Rule 1 CPC can be issued. It has also been held that the contract of the bank guarantee or the letter of credit is independent of the main contract between the seller and the buyer. This is also clear from Articles 3 and 4 of UCP (1983 Revision). In case of an irrevocable bank guarantee or letter of credit the buyer cannot obtain injunction against the banker on the ground that there was a breach of the contract by the seller. The bank is to honour the demand for encashment if the seller prima facie complies with the terms of bank guarantee or the letter of credit, namely, if the seller produces the documents enumerated in the bank guarantee or the letter of credit. If the bank is satisfied on the face of the documents that they are in conformity with the list of documents mentioned in the bank guarantee or the letter of credit and there is no discrepancy, it is bound to honour the demand of the seller for encashment. While doing so it must take reasonable care. It is not permissible for the bank to refuse payment on the ground that the buyer is claiming that there is a breach of contract. Nor can the bank try to decide this question of breach at that stage and refuse payment to the seller. Its obligation under the document having nothing to do with any dispute as to breach of contract between the seller and the buyer. The Federal Bank was the negotiating Bank on behalf of Bank of Maharashtra which was the author of the Letter of Credit. The relation between the two Banks was held to be that of principal and agent. The Federal Bank had sent copies of the documents received by it from the seller to the issuing banker, namely, Bank of Maharashtra. The latter spent an inordinate time in responding and in the meanwhile, strictly in conformity with the Letter of Credit, Federal Bank paid the Seller. It was subsequently discovered that the Seller had allegedly committed a forgery on the documents. Nevertheless, since there was no infraction of the terms of the Letter of Credit, the Apex Court held that the Federal Bank, namely, the paying or negotiating (intermediary) Bank would be entitled to reimbursements from the Bank of Maharashtra. The Apex Court affirmed the Judgment of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court authored by Hon'ble M.B. Shah, J., as his Lordship then was, in Virgo Steels v. Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. & others , AIR 1998 Bombay 82. In that case UCO Bank had issued a Letter of Credit at its request, on the foundation of which the Bank of Rajasthan Limited had made disbursements. The Bank of Rajasthan had sought confirmation from the UCO Bank, and had received it. The Division Bench found it irrelevant that some officers of the UCO Bank had committed fraud. It affirmed the Order of the Single Judge refusing to grant unconditional Leave to Defend to UCO Bank. The Division Bench had also referred to a Circular of the Reserve Bank of India dated April 1, 1992 in which it recommended the honouring of Letters of Credit even where the transaction involved a conspiracy between the beneficiary and the constituents. The RBI had opined that "if the bills drawn under LCs are not honoured, it will adversely affect the character of LCs and the relative bills as an accepted means of payment. This could also affect the credibility of the entire payment mechanism through banks and affect the image of the Banks". The Apex Court has relied on its earlier judgment in United Commercial Bank case (supra) as has been succinctly condensed the law in the first Head Note of the Report, which reads thus: 10. On first principles, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has made the following observations in respect of letters of credit in Hira Lall and Sons and Ors.s v. Lakshmi Commercial Bank , : 11. An analysis of these pronouncements discloses that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has consistently, unvaryingly and relentlessly held that Courts should interfere in the encashment of Bank Guarantees and Letters of Credit with great circumspection. Although this approach may appear to be harsh on a defrauded party, it should not be forgotten that such a party has legal recourse to proceed against the defrauder in a civil action for the recovery of money. In most instances the fraud has been committed largely because of reckless trust reposed by one of the parties upon the other party to the transaction, in which folly foolhardiness or carelessness the Bank has no role to play. The Bank is a third party and is merely a facilitator of commercial transactions. The Bank ought not to be made to suffer for the recklessness of its constituents or be held liable for the legal inequities of a third party, else this significant and now irreplaceable method and medium of trade be rendered unworkable and non-functional. 12. On the strength of the above referred Judgments ordinarily the Court would have refrained from interdicting the encashment of the Bank Guarantees had such a prayer been made before it. The situation is, however, somewhat different in that it is the beneficiary who has approached the Court by way of this writ petition, and not by way of a civil suit seeking recovery of the amounts covered by the sundry Bank Guarantees. 13. Mr. Vijay Hansaria, learned Senior counsel for the Petitioner, relies on State of U.P. v. Mohammad Nooh , AIR 1958 SC 86, Whirlpool Corporation v. Registrar of Trade Marks, Mumbai and Ors. , ABL International Ltd. and Anr. v. Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. and Ors. , . It is difficult to ignore the fact that at the very first instance of this litigation the Respondent had objected to the filing of the present writ petition, inter alia, on the grounds that highly contested questions of fact had arisen. In these circumstances the Petitioners were put to notice of the Bank's challenge as to the very maintainability of the writ petition. If it was still advised to pursue the present action it cannot now be heard to complain that the Court has entertained the petition for several years. Courts have become a convenient flogging horse for delays and increasing pendency of cases, while the cause of the malady lies on the ever increasing imbalance in the judge to population/litigation ratio. Courts must evaluate whether the Respondent has raised disputes in the factual matrix only to resist the controversy in the adjudication of the relatively expeditious remedy of a writ petition. If found to be so the Court should decide the writ undeterred by the objection. If the Respondent's defense is not embarrassed, obstructed, handicapped or impeded in any manner, the adjudication of the disputes in the exercise of extraordinary writ jurisdiction should not be faulted. In Mohammad Nooh 's case (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court was not concerned with the recovery of money when it observed that the existence of other adequate remedies is not per se an embargo or impediment to the issue of a writ of certiorari. The pronouncements in that case are thus of no avail to the Petitioner. 14. I am bound, in the circumstances of the present case, to follow the course and approach of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Haryana Urban Development Authority and Anr. v. Anupama Patnaik, it has been observed that it was "rather strange that a simple claim for money was made in a writ petition and was entertained by the High Court and allowed. There are several disputed questions of fact. Each party is alleging that the other party is guilty of violation of the terms of the allotment. The matter is not covered by any statutory provisions. The writ petition itself was misconceived and ought not to have been entertained". In ABL International case (supra) the Apex Court had pronounced that a writ petition involving serious and disputed questions of facts which requires consideration of evidence which is not on record will not normally be entertained under Article 226. So far as the enforcement of contractual obligations of the State or its instrumentalities are concerned it had been held that the question was no longer res integra that the High court can interfere under Article 226 if the State or its instrumentalities acts in an arbitrary manner even in a matter of contract. The case at hand is not one where the perusal of the defense of the Bank as such would inexorably lead to the conclusion that the Bank was procrastinating or avoiding the discharge of its liability. The defense of the Bank cannot be viewed as vexatious or imaginary or raising disputes only to frustrate the writ petition. In that case the Hon'ble Supreme Court was of the view that merely because a Respondent disputes the claim it does not become a disputed fact. If this Court had only to look into the terms of the Bank Guarantee, the efficacy of which was the only question in doubt and controversy, the ratio in ABL International case (supra) could have persuaded me to exercise the extraordinary powers contained in Article 226 of the Constitution. Thus by way of clarification if the question was whether the Bank Guarantee was legally sound even tough it had been signed by the Bank Manager twice over, or whether their confirmation by the very Bank Manager who had executed them was legally proper, the Court may not have refrained from granting relief under the writ petition. The defense of the Bank, however, is much wider in that it alleges that there has been collusion and forgery in furnishing these Bank Guarantees. The Petitioners were fully aware of this defense since a copy of the FIR has been annexed to the Petition. In the Whirlpool case (supra) the prefatory statement of the Court is to be found in paragraph 15 of the perspicuous judgment which reads thus: The controversy which had arisen in the Whirlpool case was whether during the pendency of proceedings in the High Court and in view of Section 107 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 the Registrar was competent to issue a suo moto notice under Section 56(4) of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 for cancellation of the Certification of Registration. This factual matrix cannot possibly be compared with a situation where forgery of a Bank Guarantee has been alleged by a party, which allegation is neither frivolous nor fabricated but presaged by the lodging of an FIR. 15. In these circumstances the writ petition is dismissed. However, the Petitioner shall be entitled to avail of the time spent by it in prosecuting this writ petition in the event it files a suit for the recovery of the amounts secured by the Bank Guarantees within thirty days from today.