This criminal appeal is filed under Section 372 of

Cr.P.C., wherein the appellant herein was the

complainant before the Trial Court in

C.C.No.37125/2021, pending on the file of learned

XLII ACJM, Bengaluru. 2. For the sake of convenience, the parties are

addressed to their original ranking as that on the trial

court. 3. The appellant herein was the complainant

before the trial court, who had filed a private complaint

under Sec.200 of Cr.P.C., by alleging that the accused/

respondent herein had committed an offence

punishable under Sec.500 of IPC. The brief facts

leading to the complaint is that, the complainant in his

petition has contended that on 10.02.2021, B-TV News

Channel had carried out a series of programs and new

items apart from news, scrolls, making fake

statements, false and unprivileged statements and 3 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 allegations against the appellant herein. It is submitted

that the respondent herein who was arraigned as

accused person had given an interview to the News

channel, wherein he had spoken live on the camera

and had stated certain statements wherein he had

made false and unwarranted statements to damage the

reputation of the appellant. Further it is narrated that

during the course of statement, the accused had

alleged that the appellant herein was behind all the

scams in BDA and he was involved in big scams and

that respondent/accused would call for investigation

by specialized agencies and he had made malicious

claim that appellant's name was directly exposed in

BDA scam and in his capacity at that time as the BDA

Commissioner was also looking into it and respondent

had also called for Police investigation in the matter. It

is also submitted that certain outlandish allegations

were made that the appellant was agent and a broker

in a number of scams and has played a role in the 4 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 allotment of land to Bhavani Society. The statements

made by the respondent/accused were all imaginary,

unsubstantiated and created with an intention to

damage the reputation of the appellant's image in

public eye. Pursuant to the same, the Complainant

had got issued with a notice to the respondent/

appellant and since there was no reply from him, it

had driven the appellant to knock the doors of the

court by filing a private complaint. Based on the

materials available on record, the trial court had

proceeded to take cognizance for the offence

punishable under Sec.500 of IPC and necessary

summons was issued to the respondent/accused. The

respondent/accused had appeared before the trial

court and necessary substance of accusation came to

be framed, which was read-over to the accused, who

had pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 4. The complainant in order to prove his case,

had got himself examined as PW.1 and had marked 10 5 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 documents on his behalf as Ex. P1 to 10. He had also

examined four more witnesses as PW.2 to 5 and during

the course of cross-examination, two documents were

marked through confrontation as Ex.D1 and 2. On

completion of the complainant's evidence, the

statement of accused came to be recorded as

contemplated under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C., wherein he

had denied all the incriminating materials available

against him. The respondent/accused had not

preferred to lead any defence evidence and accordingly

the case was posted for arguments. After hearing both

the parties on merits, the trial court was pleased to

dismiss the complaint and had acquitted the accused

for the offence punishable under Sec.500 of IPC. 5. Being aggrieved by the same, the present

appeal has been preferred by the appellant by

contending that the impugned orders passed by the

trial court is not in accordance with the law and also

the material evidence has not been properly examined. 6 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 It is also submitted that the trial court had failed to

appreciate from the evidence and materials on record

that the rigors of Sec.500 of IPC was clearly made out.

The appellant has also submitted that the words which

were uttered by the accused was "BDA Mohan" or

"R.T.Nagar Mohan" which was pointing out to the

present Complainant, since his photograph was also

published during the course of his interview. Further,

the Respondent in his defence has contended that he

was not referring to the appellant herein, despite the

phrase being specific in nature. It is also submitted

that during the course of interview, the photograph of

appellant was aired on television and respondent did

not take any steps to correct the same stating that it is

not the same person. As such, the contention of the

appellant/complainant was justified. Further it is

submitted that the trial court failed to note that while

in cross-examination, the complainant has denied that

he was known to BDA Mohan or R.T.Nagar Mohan, the 7 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 accused specifically put to the complainant questions

wherein he has suggested that he only is R.T.Nagar

Mohan and BDA Mohan. As such, it is submitted that

it is clear and evident that the accused always had

appellant in mind and none other. Further it is

submitted that if the respondent had complainant in

mind, there was no occasion to specifically impute that

it was the complainant alone who was the person in

the mind of the respondent. The appellant has also

submitted that the trial court had failed to notice that

once the statements made are admitted as having been

made, the burden shifts to the accused to show that

the imputations so made is true. However, the trial

court has not considered the same in proper

perspective. Further the learned trial court has erred

in giving findings that the complainant does not fall

within the meaning of "person aggrieved" under Sec.199(1)(b) . The finding was completely incorrect

given the fact that the photograph of the complainant 8 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 was flashed all over the media and if the respondent

was not referring to the complainant he would

certainly have made this position clear immediately.

Thereafter, it is submitted that the 3 rd and 4th

explanation provided in the statute to propound the

offence of defamation is that an imputation in the form

of an alternative or expressed ironically, which may

amount to defamation. Therefore, it is submitted that

the impugned judgment rendered by the trial court

was bad in law for not appreciating the aspects in

proper perspective. The appellant has also contended

that the document which was produced as Ex. D1 by

the accused was the copy of the suit filed by the

appellant in OS No.1111/2021. When it was the sole

defence of the respondent/accused that he had made

all the statements without knowing about the same,

the contention of the appellant was justified. Lastly, it

is submitted that the trial court had failed to

appreciate the admissions made by the accused in his 9 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 statement recorded under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C. The

important element was completely missed by the trial

court, wherein the accused had admitted his

statement made by him. Under these circumstances,

the findings rendered by the trial court was

inappropriate and calls for interference of this court. 6. On presentation of the appeal

memorandum, necessary notice came to be ordered to

the respondent/accused who had appeared through

his counsel. 7. I have heard the arguments of the learned

Senior Counsel Sri.Dhyan Chinnappa, who has

appeared on behalf of the learned counsel for the

complainant herein. The learned Senior Counsel has

extensively argued that the averments made in the

complaint itself discloses a prima-facie case and also

the act of the accused person in not answering to the

legal notice being issued by the complainant would

seriously create aspersions against his conduct. 10 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 Further it is his contention that silence by the accused

without answering to the fact that the video which was

published in the Television during the course of

interview was not the person to whom he had referred

to would make him liable for prosecution under Sec.500 of IPC. Further it is his statement that the

conduct of the accused itself would be self-explanatory

and in a way, it amounts to innuendo. The imputation

is very much answerable from the conduct of the

accused person and in order to point out to the same,

he has referred to the cross-examination of the

complainant who was examined as PW.1. He has

argued that during the course of cross-examination, a

suggestion was made by the learned Counsel for the

accused to the witness that the complainant was an

RTI Activist who use to visit BDA office as representing

the general public and also to get their work done. In

spite of that, it was suggested to him that he was

deposing falsely before the Court that he was not 11 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 having any other alias name. The learned Senior

Counsel by pointing out to the aforesaid aspect has

vehemently argued that if at all a suggestion being

made by the accused himself that the complainant

used to visit the public office and he was having an

alternative name i.e., telecasted in the news interview

as BDA Mohan or R.T.Nagar Mohan, the same would

indicate that the accused was fully aware that he was

making aspersions against the complainant only. The

learned Senior Counsel has also taken this Court to

the entire evidence which was placed before the Court.

By referring to the same, it is argued at length that the

accused had not taken any steps to retract from his

earlier stand i.e., BDA Mohan or R.T.Nagar Mohan and

the complainant were one and the same. If a

suggestion is made categorically that they are one and

the same, the accused is required to justify his stand

taken before the Court. The learned Senior Counsel

has also argued that there was no opportunity to 12 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 elucidate the truth in the instant case since accused

had not preferred to lead any defense evidence. In

order to substantiate his contention, the learned

Senior Counsel has relied upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2016)7 SCC 221

( Subramanian Swamy Vs. Union of India, Ministry of Law

and others ), wherein it has been held as follows; 168. For the aforesaid purpose, it is
 imperative to analyse in detail what
 constitutes the offence of "defamation"
 as provided under Section 499 IPC. To
 constitute the offence, there has to be
 imputation and it must have been
 made in the manner as provided in the
 provision with the intention of causing
 harm or having reason to believe that
 such imputation will harm the
 reputation of the person about whom it
 is made. Causing harm to the
 reputation of a person is the basis on
 which the offence is founded and mens
 rea is a condition precedent to
 constitute the said offence. The
 complainant has to show that the
 accused had intended or known or had
 reason to believe that the imputation
 made by him would harm the
 reputation of the complainant. The
 criminal offence emphasises on the
 intention or harm. Section 44 IPC
 defines "injury". It denotes any harm 13 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 whatever illegally caused to any
person, in body, mind, reputation or
property. Thus, the word "injury" encapsulates harm caused to the
reputation of any person. It also takes
into account the harm caused to a
person's body and mind. Section 499 provides for harm caused to the
reputation of a person, that is, the
complainant. 198. The said provision is criticised on
the ground that "some person
aggrieved" is on a broader spectrum
and that is why, it allows all kinds of
persons to take recourse to
defamation. As far as the concept of
"some person aggrieved" is concerned,
we have referred to a plethora of
decisions in course of our deliberations
to show how this Court has determined
the concept of "some person
aggrieved". While dealing with various
Explanations, it has been clarified
about definite identity of the body of
persons or collection of persons. In
fact, it can be stated that the "person
aggrieved" is to be determined by the
courts in each case according to the
fact situation. It will require
ascertainment on due deliberation of
the facts. In John Thomas v. K.
Jagadeesan [John Thomas v. K.
Jagadeesan, (2001) 6 SCC 30 : 2001
SCC (Cri) 974] while dealing with
"person aggrieved", the Court opined
that the test is whether the
complainant has reason to feel hurt on 14 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 account of publication is a matter to be
determined by the court depending
upon the facts of each case. In S.
Khushboo [S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal, (2010) 5 SCC 600 : (2010)
2 SCC (Cri) 1299] , while dealing with
"person aggrieved", a three-Judge
Bench has opined that the respondents
therein were not "person aggrieved" is too specious a submission to be
accepted. 8. Also, another judgment of the Hon'ble Apex

Court reported in (2023)13 Supreme Court Cases 365

( Balu Sudam Khalde and another Vs. State of

Maharashtra ), wherein it has been held as under; 38. Thus, from the above it is evident
 that the suggestion made by the
 defence counsel to a witness in the
 cross-examination if found to be
 incriminating in nature in any manner
 would definitely bind the accused and
 the accused cannot get away on the
 plea that his counsel had no implied
 authority to make suggestions in the
 nature of admissions against his
 client. 39. Any concession or admission of a
 fact by a defence counsel would
 definitely be binding on his client,
 except the concession on the point of
 law. As a legal proposition we cannot
 agree with the submission canvassed
 on behalf of the appellants that an
 answer by a witness to a suggestion
 made by the defence counsel in the
 cross-examination does not deserve any
 value or utility if it incriminates the
 accused in any manner. 40. It is a cardinal principle of
 criminal jurisprudence that the initial
 burden to establish the case against
 the accused beyond reasonable doubt
 rests on the prosecution. It is also an 16 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 elementary principle of law that the
prosecution has to prove its case on its
own legs and cannot derive advantage
or benefit from the weakness of the
defence. We are not suggesting for a
moment that if prosecution is unable to
prove its case on its own legs then the
Court can still convict an accused on
the strength of the evidence in the form
of reply to the suggestions made by the
defence counsel to a witness. Take for
instance, in the present case we have
reached to the conclusion that the
evidence of the three eyewitnesses
inspires confidence and there is
nothing in their evidence on the basis
of which it could be said that they are
unreliable witnesses. Having reached
to such a conclusion, in our opinion, to
fortify our view we can definitely look
into the suggestions made by the
defence counsel to the eyewitnesses,
the reply to those establishing the
presence of the accused persons as
well as the eyewitnesses in the night
hours. To put it in other words,
suggestions by itself are not sufficient
to hold the accused guilty if they are
incriminating in any manner or are in
the form of admission in the absence of
any other reliable evidence on record.
It is true that a suggestion has no
evidentiary value but this proposition
of law would not hold good at all times
and in a given case during the course
of cross-examination the defence
counsel may put such a suggestion the
answer to which may directly go 17 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 against the accused and this is exactly
what has happened in the present
case. 41. The principle of law that in a
criminal case, a lawyer has no implied
authority to make admissions against
his client during the progress of the
trial would hold good only in cases
where dispensation of proof by the
prosecution is not permissible in law.
For example, it is obligatory on the
part of the prosecution to prove the
post-mortem report by examining the
doctor. The accused cannot admit the
contents of the post-mortem report
thereby absolving the prosecution from
its duty to prove the contents of the
same in accordance with law by
examining the doctor. This is so
because if the evidence per se is
inadmissible in law then a defence
counsel has no authority to make it
admissible with his consent. 42. Therefore, we are of the opinion
that suggestions made to the witness
by the defence counsel and the reply to
such suggestions would definitely form
part of the evidence and can be relied
upon by the Court along with other
evidence on record to determine the
guilt of the accused. 43. The main object of cross- examination is to find out the truth on
record and to help the Court in
knowing the truth of the case. It is a
matter of common experience that 18 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 many a times the defence lawyers
themselves get the discrepancies
clarified arising during the cross-
examination in one paragraph and
getting themselves contradicted in the
other paragraph. The line of cross-
examination is always on the basis of
the defence which the counsel would
keep in mind to defend the accused. At
this stage, we may quote with profit
the observations made by a Division
Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High
Court in Govind v. State of M.P. [Govind v. State of M.P., 2004 SCC OnLine MP
344 : 2005 Cri LJ 1244] The Bench
observed in para 27 as under : (SCC
OnLine MP)

"27. The main object of cross- examination is to find out the truth
and detection of falsehood in human
testimony. It is designed either to
destroy or weaken the force of evidence
a witness has already given in person
or elicit something in favour of the
party which he has not stated or to
discredit him by showing from his past
history and present demeanour that he
is unworthy of credit. It should be
remembered that cross-examination is
a duty, a lawyer owes to his clients
and is not a matter of great personal
glory and fame. It should always be
remembered that justice must not be
defeated by improper cross- examination. A lawyer owes a duty to
himself that it is the most difficult art.
However, he may fail in the result but 19 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 fairness is one of the great elements of
advocacy. Talents and genius are not
aimed at self-glorification but it should
be to establish truth, to detect
falsehood, to uphold right and just and
to expose wrongdoings of a dishonest
witness. It is the most efficacious test
to discover the truth. Cross- examination exposes bias, detects
falsehood and shows mental and moral
condition of the witnesses and whether
a witness is actuated by proper motive
or whether he is actuated by enmity
towards his adversaries. Cross- examination is commonly esteemed the
severest test of an advocate's skill and
perhaps it demands beyond any other
of his duties exercise of his ingenuity. creditable skill. It is undoubtedly a
great intellectual effort. Sometimes
cross-examination assumes
unnecessary length, the Court has
power to control the cross-examination
in such cases. (See Wrottescey on cross-
examination of witnesses). The Court
must also ensure that cross- examination is not made a means of
harassment or causing humiliation to
the victim of crime [See State of Punjab
v. Gurmit Singh [State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh, (1996) 2 SCC 384 : 1996
SCC (Cri) 316] 44. During the course of cross- examination with a view to discredit
the witness or to establish the defence 20 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 on preponderance of probabilities
 suggestions are hurled on the witness
 but if such suggestions, the answer to
 those incriminate the accused in any
 manner then the same would definitely
 be binding and could be taken into
 consideration along with other
 evidence on record in support of the
 same. 9. By referring to the above said authorities, it

is vehemently argued that the findings rendered by the

trial court was totally against the settled principles of

law which would require the interference of this court.

Hence, he has sought for interference of this court. 10. Per contra, it is submitted on behalf of the

respondent that the impugned judgment passed by the

trial court is apt and correct. Smt.Lakshmi Iyengar,

learned Senior Counsel on instruction from the learned

counsel for Respondent has submitted before the

Court that the averments made in the complaint is

required to be considered in proper perspective. It is

her submission that the averments made in Para-3 of

the complaint that the complainant was an 21 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 accomplished businessman and has achieved high

reputation in the society both due to his success in

business as well as due to his philanthropic activities

and has achieved success while maintaining high

standards of integrity and honesty and also he was a

well-known public figure not only in the city of

Bengaluru but throughout the State of Karnataka was

also not established in fact. Further it is her

submission that the accused was not personally

present in TV interview and he had only given

telephonic interview. It is also submitted that all that

he had mentioned in his interview that the name of

one Mohan @ R.T.Nagar Mohan was making rounds as

the main person who had indulged in corrupt

activities. The learned Senior Counsel has vehemently

argued that unless it is pointed out that the accused

had intended to defame the complainant by personally

pointing out and causing aspersions against him, the

contentions urged by the complainant cannot be 22 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 accepted. Further she has pointed out that, Ex.D1 was

the document which would indicate that he was being

called by name Mohan @ BDA Mohan and also, he had

not approached the Court with clean hands. She has

also pointed out to the documents which are marked

before the Court at Ex.P10. By continuing her

arguments, the learned Senior Counsel has

vehemently argued that how a criminal case could be

maintainable without making B-TV Channel as

necessary party as they are the necessary parties who

have published and telecasted the interview. It is

submitted that ultimately for defamation the Court has

to look into the following points; a) Intention b) Intention to defame c) As per the exception, if allegations are in
 public interest, then it will not be a
 defamation. 11. By pointing out to the above aspects, the

learned Senior Counsel has further argued that in the 23 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 judgment passed by the trial court, the very same

aspect has been discussed. Even otherwise by looking

to the evidence of PW.3 and 4, it could be ascertained

that there was no corroboration with respect to the

avocation of the complaint. Further it is submitted that

the accused did not admit that he is not Mohan or

BDA Mohan. The learned Senior Counsel has also

taken this Court to the statement recorded under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C. Particularly with respect to

Question No.2, it is argued that the questionnaire

which was framed, though do not indict particularly to

the complainant herein. By pointing out to the said

aspects, the learned Senior Counsel has taken this

Court to the Exception No.1 and 9 of Sec.499 of IPC. It

is submitted that the Exceptions are very much

applicable to the case on hand. Further in order to

substantiate their contention, the learned Senior

Counsel has relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble

Apex Court reported as follows; 1) Shahed Kamal and others Vs. M/s A.Surti
 Developers Pvt. Ltd. and another in
 Crl.Apl.No.2033 of 2025 (Special Leave Petition
 [Criminal] No.9942 of 2024) 2) 1982 SCC Online Del 270 ( S.Nihal Singh and
 others Vs. Arjan Das, New Delhi ) 3) AIR 2017 SC 5608 ( Mohammed Abdulla Khan Vs.
 Prakash.K ) 4) AIR 2002 Supreme Court 2989 ( K.M.Mathew Vs.
 K.A.Abraham ) 5) 2025 INSC 241 (Jaideep Bose Vs. M/s Bid and
 Hammer Auctioneers Pvt. Ltd. 12. By relying upon the aforesaid authorities,

the learned Senior Counsel has vehemently argued

that the impugned judgment rendered by the trial

court is apt and correct and accordingly she has

sought for dismissing of the instant complaint. 13. Heard and perused the records. The points

that would arise for my consideration are as follows; 1) Whether the trial court has not
 appreciated the materials on record
 in proper perspective? 2) Whether the trial court has erred in
 not considering the admissions
 being made by the accused during
 the course of his evidence? 3) Whether the impugned judgment
 passed by the trial court is not in
 accordance with law and calls for
 interference of this court? 4) Whether the complainant has made
 out grounds for interfering with the
 judgment and order of acquittal
 passed by the trial court? 5) What Order? 14. My answer to the above points is as under: 15. Before adverting to the factual aspects of the

case, I have recapitulated the entire evidence that has

been laid before the trial Court. In the instant case, the 26 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 complainant had got himself examined as PW.1 Mohan

Kumar and in his chief examination he has once again

reiterated the contentions which were made in his

complaint. During the course of his cross-examination

wherein he was subjected to grilling cross-

examination, he has deposed that he was into real

estate business and also, he was doing social services.

It is his evidence that he had taken several government

schools for adoption and has done yeoman services to

the said school. That apart he has deposed that on

23.02.2021 he had issued a notice to the accused

under his instructions. He has also deposed of filing a

suit in OS No. 1111/2021 for which he had issued

necessary information to his Counsel. The said copy of

the suit was confronted to him and since he had

admitted the same it was marked as Ex. D1. Further

he has deposed that none of his family were working in

BDA nor his relatives or any close persons were

working in BDA. He has also categorically admitted of 27 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 furnishing his address as residing in No. 62 and also

has deposed of owning a house in No. 265 which were

both situated in RT Nagar. During the course of

further cross-examination, he was specifically

confronted with the averments made in the suit which

was mentioned above and it was brought to his notice

that in the said suit he had averred that he was known

by name RT Nagar Mohan alias BDA Mohan amongst

his friends and since he had admitted the same, the

portion was marked as Ex.D1(a). However, the witness

has voluntarily deposed that he was not being called

by name R T Nagar Mohan or BDA Mohan and due to

misrepresentation the same was narrated in the suit.

He has also deposed that in the said suit he had

narrated that he used to visit BDA Office and also as a

representative of general public to get their work done.

However, he has denied the suggestion that he was in

the habit of filing false cases against the officials for no

rhymes or reason. He has admitted of issuing legal 28 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 notice on 10.02.2021 against the media as per Exhibit

D1, wherein he has stated that the defendant had

published a news article and the 18th defendant

therein had begun to air the promotional slides and

videos from 07.00 a.m. onwards on that day by stating

that they were going to expose regarding a person by

name R T Nagar Mohan, who they alleged was a BDA

broker and was also a mastermind in several scams of

BDA. Since the witnesses had admitted of deposing

about the same in his civil suit, the same was marked

as Exhibit D1(b). He has also specifically admitted that

at the time of watching the interview there was no

occasion for him to presume that RT Nagar Mohan or

BDA Mohan which was addressed to in the interview

pertained to him. Thereafter the witness was also

subjected to further cross-examination and he has

admitted specifically that he does not know who had

furnished his photograph to B-TV channel at the time

of telecasting of the news item and he had not made 29 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 any efforts to ascertain the same. He has deposed that

he had issued legal notice to the B-TV channel also,

but he does not know what had happened to his legal

notice. He has deposed of registering a criminal case

against the TV channel. However, it is his evidence

that he does not know about its case number or the

status at which the case is pending. Further, during

the course of cross-examination, the complainant has

deposed that on 10.02.2021, he has deposed before

the court that the accused had visited the B-TV

channel and had given an interview wherein he had

stated that the Complainant was the kingpin of BDA

scams and he had got the files cleared by paying crores

of rupees. However, the witness has deposed that the

accused had not visited the TV channel but it was a

live interview which he had given. Further he has

admitted that erroneously he had deposed during the

course of his chief examination that the complainant

had visited the B-TV Office for tendering his evidence. 30 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 Later on, the witness was once again summoned and

during the course of his further cross examination he

has admitted that he acted as a middleman for sale of

several sites. He has also deposed that for the last 15

to 20 years he was into real estate business and

during the aforesaid period he had not visited any of

the offices or the government offices personally but he

had visited only through his advocates. He has

admitted of registering cases against 8 officials, and

also against TV media persons and has volunteered

that the said cases were all registered only after

registration of the above case . The witness has also

denied of facing several criminal cases against him.

However, he has admitted categorically that in the year

2023, a case was registered against him by one Smt.

Hema S Raju, which was a private complaint and as he

had admitted the same, the document was marked as

Ex.D2. Further during the course of cross-

examination, he has specifically admitted that in the 31 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 entire interview or its transcription, the accused had

not shown the photograph of the complainant by

pointing out that he was the one, who was called as RT

Nagar Mohan or BDA Mohan, who was involved in the

corrupt activities at BDA. Further, he has feigned his

ignorance that the accused was aware of the fact that

the photograph of the complainant was being

telecasted at the time of publishing his interview in the

BTV news channel. Apart from that, nothing much was

elucidated from him. 16. PW.2 K.S.Kumar has deposed that on

10.02.2021 in the afternoon one of his friend Suresh

had telephonically called him and had stated that a

news item was being telecasted with respect to their

friend Mohan Kumar. He had switched on the TV and

in the news channel, MLA Sri Vishwanath was

conducting a press conference wherein he had stated

that Mohan Kumar was involved in several scams and

he was a BDA dealer and if he visits BDA office he was 32 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 being given red carpet welcome and he had received

kickback of more than Rupees 20 Crores and without

money Mohan Kumar would not touch any files. The

witness has deposed that by watching the interview he

felt bad as his friend was not visiting any BDA office

nor was involved in any transactions. During the

course of cross examination, he has deposed that for

the last 25 years he knew Mohan Kumar and he was

doing yeoman services to the society. He has

specifically deposed that Mohan Kumar was not being

called by any other name or by any alias name. He has

admitted that he knew to operate internet, YouTube

and in the same if a search was given by stating BDA

Mohan, Photo and videos were being telecasted, for

which he has feigned his ignorance. Apart from that,

nothing much was elucidated from him. 17. Another witness, PW.3 Suresh has deposed

that on 10.02.2021 at about 11.00 a.m. in the morning

one of his friend by name Manjunath had telephoned 33 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 to him and stated that a interview was being published

with respect to their friend Mohan Kumar and when he

had switched on the TV he had noticed that Yelahanka

MLA S.R.Vishwanath was conducting a press

conference wherein he had stated that Mohan Kumar

was a BDA dealer and if he visits the BDA Office, he

was given a red carpet welcome and he used to do an

illegal business of about 10 to 20 crores by acting as

an agent. As such he had immediately called upon

Mohan Kumar and had intimated about the same and

the complainant Mohan Kumar had stated that all the

said aspects were false. During the course of cross

examination, it was suggested to him that at the time

of tendering his sworn statement he had not narrated

that he himself had intimated the aforesaid aspects to

complainant for which he had feigned his ignorance.

Apart from that nothing was elucidated from him. 18. PW4 Karthik is another witness who has

deposed that on 10.02.2021 at about 11 a.m. in the 34 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 morning their friends by name Eswar and Prakash had

telephonically called and intimated about the interview

being telecasted at B-TV. As such when he had

switched on the TV channel he had found that MLA

S.R. Viswanath was conducting a press conference

wherein he was giving the interview by showing the

photograph of Mohan Kumar that he was a BDA dealer

and if he visits the BDA office, a red carpet welcome

was given to him and also when the same was brought

to the notice of Mohan Kumar in the evening, he had

denied all such aspects. During the course of cross-

examination, he has deposed that complainant was

known to him from 2009 onwards and he knew the

complainant through his uncle Srinivasa Naidu.

Further, he has feigned his ignorance that Mohan

Kumar used to do some transactions at BDA and it is

his evidence that the press conference was being

conducted by Viswanath by standing outside the BDA

office. Further he has deposed that at that time the 35 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 accused Vishwanath was holding a photograph of the

complainant Mohan Kumar in his hand and by

showing it he was giving the evidence. 19. PW.5 by Byre Gowda, is the other witness

who has deposed that the complainant Mohan Kumar

was his nephew and he had taken care of the

complainant from his childhood days. It is his evidence

that on 10.02.2021 at about 11.00 a.m. in the morning

his friend Kempanna had called him and had stated

about the interview which was being telecasted in B TV

with respect to Mohan Kumar. As such he had

switched on the TV and had found that in the said

interview at BTV, it was being stated that Mohan

Kumar was a BDA agent who had made a transaction

of more than ₹ 20 crores and the interview was being

given by S.R. Vishwanath. Immediately he had visited

the house of Mohan Kumar and he had explained to

him that it was a false allegation being levelled against

him due to which he was defamed in the society. 36 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 During the course of his cross-examination he has

admitted that Mohan Kumar for his livelihood was

doing a real estate business and he has feigned his

ignorance about the offices which Mohan Kumar visits

for his business purposes. He has also admitted that

he does not have knowledge that whether Mohan

Kumar visits BDA Office for his business. He has also

deposed that since the interview was being telecasted

in television, he came to know that it was pertaining to

the complainant Mohan Kumar. He has specifically

further deposed that Mohan Kumar was not being

called by name R T Nagar Mohan and has categorically

admitted that no photographs were being telecasted in

the said interview. Apart from that nothing much has

been elucidated from him. 20. The complainant in order to prove his case

had got marked Ex.P1 to 10 and also during the

course of cross-examination Ex. D1 and Ex. D2 were 37 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 marked through confrontation by the Respondent

herein. 21. The appellant who is the complainant before

the trial Court is challenging the order of acquittal,

wherein the accused who is alleged to have committed

offences under Section 500 of IPC has been acquitted.

It is the contention of the learned counsel for the

appellant that the trial Court had erred in answering

the question that the accused was not found guilty of

committing the aforesaid offences. It has been narrated

in detail in the written submissions that the Magistrate

had erred in acquitting the respondent on the basis of

the appellant denied being known as BDA Mohan or

RT Nagar Mohan. It is further contented that during

the course of cross examination the respondent in his

suggestion had specifically questioned that he was

known as BDA Mohan or RT Nagar Mohan and he had

also referred to himself as such in OS No. 1111/2021

which was also filed before the court and on 38 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 confrontation the same came to be marked as Ex.D1.

The aforesaid aspect requires to be considered in

consonance with the evidence which has been placed

before the court. It is the specific contention of the

complainant that a interview came to be telecasted on

BTV and in the said interview the accused who was the

person giving the interview had specifically stated that

he had heard about several corrupt activities and also

the corrupt activities taken place at BDA and in that it

was stated that a person by name BDA Mohan or also

called as R T Nagar Mohan was the kingpin who would

not settle for a lesser sum of amount and used to

accept huge chunk of amount as bribe for committing

the illegal activities. The aforesaid aspect is required to

be considered in the wake of the assertions which has

been made in the complaint. Firstly, in the instant

case it is noticed from records that the complainant

has not at all admitted that he was having any other 39 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 name or he was being called by other names like R T

Nagar Mohan or BDA Mohan. 22. Before averting to the factual aspect of the

case, it would be appropriate to understand what

amounts to defamation. As per the definition rendered

in Halsbury's Law of England, Fifth Edition 2012, Volume

32 it has been stated as: 23. When the aforesaid principle is applied to

the case on land, firstly, the complainant has to

establish that due to the aforesaid statement, his

image in the society was lowered. Further, it is

required to be proved that if the words in an action for

slander are not actionable per se at common law or by

statute, the claimant must allege and prove actual 40 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 material loss. However, in the matters pertaining to

libel, if a person has been libeled without any lawful

justification or excuse, the law presumes that some

damage will flow in the ordinary course of events from

mere invasion of right of his reputation and such

damages is known as general damages. That apart it is

also required to be proved by the claimant that the

purpose of a claim of libel or slander is to vindicate the

reputation of the person defamed and accordingly the

proper and only party to bring the claim is the person

actually and personally defamed. Thus, it is not

enough that the words reflect on the claimant's

property, there must also be an imputation against the

claimant personally and for example, that he has

knowingly or negligently caused some defamatory

statement imputing the reputation which he is having

in the society. The aforesaid aspect assumes

importance for the reason that in the entire complaint

averments it has been alleged by the complainant that 41 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 certain defamatory statements came to be made by

accused person while giving an interview to B-TV

channel. When the entire averments made in the

complaint, which is the basic edifice, is carefully

appreciated, it does indicate that he had submitted in

his complaint pleadings that on 10.02.2021, a news

programme was telecasted, wherein an interview was

given by accused S.R. Vishwanath, who was also the

commissioner of BDA. And in the said interview, it was

narrated by the accused person that a person by name

BDA Mohan or R T Nagar Mohan is the one who is

considered as a kingpin of committing corruption in

the BDA and he is also responsible for various illegal

activities in BDA. Further it was narrated by the

accused person during the course of interview that he

would request to assign the investigation of such

corrupt activities to SIT or any other specialized

agencies of the Government and in this regard, he

would correspond with the then Chief Minister of the 42 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 State. With this particular aspect the other contentions

which has been raised are during the course of the

evidence is also required to be appreciated. Firstly, in

the instant case the complainant has contended that

the accused had intentionally intended to malice or

defame the complainant in the eyes of the right-

thinking members of the society. 24. In order to better appreciate the aforesaid

aspects, I have carefully appreciated the evidence

which is placed before the trial Court. In the evidence

which has been led before the Court, the interview

conversation was also produced and it came to be

marked as a necessary Ex. P6 which is a CD. In the

said interview it is noticed that a specific question was

raised to the accused person about the corrupt

activities being carried out at BDA. In the said

interview it has been specifically deposed by the

accused that he does not know who Mohan was but 43 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 his name was forthcoming everywhere. Further he has

narrated that he was doing an agent work and also

acting as an intermediatory to officers and also

purchasers and everyone used to take the name of R T

Nagar Mohan. Further he has stated that whatever

corrupt activities that had taken place in BDA

everyone used to take the name of one Mohan. He has

also given example that if a site or a layout was

allotted to a Housing society, the said person would

show his expertise and make illegal money in the

allotment and development of layout. Thereafter, a

question was posed by the person who was conducting

the interview that if at all a complaint was lodged

before the Chief Minister in this regard, to hand over

the investigation to specialized agencies, the real

picture of R T Nagar Mohan would come into light, for

which, the accused has specifically stated that the

same would come out and it was not only pertaining to

Mohan, but also pertaining to other agents who were 44 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 involved in conducting the corrupt activities.

Thereafter the interviewer has once again posed

another question that what action he would initiate

against R T Nagar Mohan. For the said question the

accused has answered that the Chief Minister has

specifically stated that whoever may be the person

whether it is R T Nagar Mohan or any other person,

the same will be entrusted to SIT and since there was

a stay operating, the same could not have been

investigated immediately and further he has deposed

that the said R T Nagar Mohan has shown his

expertise in order to obtain stay. That apart, nowhere

it is pointed out that he was specifically pointing out to

the aforesaid complainant. 25. The main question which arises at this

juncture is whether such statement was referred to the

complainant herein or it was any other general

statement. In order to better understand this aforesaid 45 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 aspect, it is required to consider the manner in which

the interview was given on the relevant date and also

whether the statement which was given by accused

person indeed intended to pointed out to the

complainant herein. The first and foremost aspect is

that in the complaint averments also it has been

specifically narrated by the complainant that he was

not called by any other names and he was addressed

as Mohan and he was not addressed by any other

names like R T Nagar Mohan or BDA Mohan. In order

to better appreciate the same, the cross examination of

PW1 is required to be looked into. During the course of

his cross examination, he has specifically deposed that

no person in his family was working at BDA nor any of

his friends or relatives were working at BDA. He has

also deposed that he had filed a suit before the Civil

court and the copy of the plaint on confrontation was

marked as Ex. D1 and in the said suit at para-No. 4 it

has been narrated that the complainant who was the 46 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 plaintiff therein was popularly known as R T Nagar

Mohan alias BDA Mohan amongst his friend circle. The

witnesses have admitted of making such averments in

the plaint; however, it has been deposed by him that

due to some inadvertence the aforesaid aspect was

mentioned and he was not at all being addressed by

BDA Mohan or RT Nagar Mohan anywhere. Though it

has been argued by the learned Senior counsel

representing the accused that the aforesaid suggestion

itself would indicate the innuendo in which the

accused was addressing his interview against

complainant as he had malafide intention to point out

to the complainant, though looks attractive, it is

required to be appreciated with the entire materials

available on the record. When the same is appreciated,

it would indicate that the complainant was also

denying that he was being addressed by the name BDA

Mohan or RT Nagar Mohan by his family members,

friends, relatives or any other persons. Under the 47 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 circumstances the main aspect which is required to be

established by the complainant is that when an

allegation of libel is levelled and if a statement was

made which was defamatory in nature, and published

and the same had lowered the reputation of the

complainant in the eyes of the right-thinking persons

of the society. 26. In order to better appreciate the aforesaid

aspects, the court has relied upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court wherein the ingredients which are

required to prove defamation in the case of libel has

been laid down. In the judgment reported in SCC

Online SC 1587 ( Google India Pvt Ltd., Vs V Vishaka

Industries and Another ) wherein it is held as: 107. In the light of this discussion, we
may only reiterate that the criminal
offence of defamation under Section
499 of the IPC is committed when a
person makes a defamatory imputation
which, as explained in Mohd. Abdulla
Khan (supra), would consist of the
imputation being conveyed to the
person about whom the imputation is
made. A publication, on the other hand,
is made when the imputation is
communicated to persons other than 49 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 the persons about whom the
 defamatory imputation is conveyed. A
 person, who makes the defamatory
 imputation, could also publish the
 imputation and thus could be the
 maker and the publisher of a
 defamatory imputation. On the other
 hand, a person may be liable though he
 may not have made the statement but
 he publishes it. 27. When the aforesaid judgment is appreciated

it indicates that following aspects are required to be

established which are as follows: 28. In order to consider whether the accused

had intention and knowledge and also, he had reasons

to believe that such imputation would harm the

reputation of the complainant and also the fact which 50 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 is required to be established is that whether the same

was published. In order to appreciate the same, it

would be relevant to revisit the evidence which is led

before the court. When the further cross-examination

of the complainant herein is appreciated it indicates

that he has denied the suggestion that he was having a

habit of filing false complaint against Government

servants or before Government office and other Courts.

Further he has specifically deposed that he does not

have any transactions with BDA nor he had visited

BDA. If only for a moment the suggestion and the reply

given by the complainant is to be appreciated with that

of another independent witness, it would certainly

create serious question mark over the evidence led

before the court. For instance, the PW.2 to 5 who are

the witnesses in the instant case have deposed that

they had watched the TV interview at B-TV News

Channel, wherein a Press Conference was being called.

PW.2 K.S.Kumar in his evidence has deposed that in 51 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 the said Press Conference, the accused herein i.e.,

S.R.Vishwanath was making allegations against his

friend Mohan Kumar and also, he has deposed that

Mohan Kumar was alleged to be a BDA dealer and if

only he visits the BDA Office, a red-carpet welcome has

been given to him. It has also been deposed by him

that he was not related to any transactions with BDA.

During the course of cross-examination, he has

deposed that complainant Mohan Kumar was not

being called by any other name and if only YouTube

was opened and a search was given as BDA Mohan,

the video and audio of the present complainant would

be portrayed. However, the said suggestion was feigned

by the witness. Further it is his evidence that on that

day in the Press Conference, the MLA Vishwanath was

conducting the Press Conference, wherein several

other persons were sitting adjacent to him and about

10 persons were present next to him and the Press

Conference was being called in the BDA Office. This 52 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 particular aspect is once again required to be

juxtaposed and appreciated with the evidence of PW.3

Suresh. PW.3 has deposed that on 10.02.2021 at

about 11.00 a.m. in the morning, one of his friends

Manjunath had called him telephonically and had

stated about a Press Conference being given at B-TV.

On turning to B-TV Channel, it was noticed that

Yelahanka MLA S.R.Vishwanath was conducting a

Press Conference and he was making several

allegations against his friend Mohan Kumar as a BDA

dealer. During the course of cross-examination, it is

deposed by him that he had not furnished any

materials with respect to Press Conference being

telecasted in the News Channel. PW.4 Karthik, who

has also deposed in consonance with the evidence of

PW.1 and 2 has deposed during the course of cross-

examination that he knew the complainant Mohan

Kumar since from 2009 and he got acquainted with

him through his maternal uncle Srinivasa Naidu and 53 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 has feigned his ignorance the reason for meeting them

at the earliest point of time. Interestingly, in his cross-

examination he has deposed that in the Press

Conference, the accused S.R.Vishwanath was showing

the photograph of Mohan Kumar and he was making

allegations against the complainant Mohan Kumar. He

has deposed that accused Vishwanath was conducting

the Press Conference by standing outside the BDA

Office and was holding a photograph in his hand.

Furthermore, the evidence of PW.5 Byregowda would

indicate that the complainant Mohan Kumar who was

his nephew was not being addressed as R.T.Nagar

Mohan or BDA Mohan. Further he has deposed that

Mohan Kumar was not having any rivalry or friendship

with S.R.Vishwanath. 29. By looking into the entire evidence of the

parties, it would indicate that the identity of the

complainant is a main aspect which is required to be 54 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 established in materials pertaining to libel. It is not the

case of complainant that both of them knew each other

prior to making such statement. It is also not in

dispute that at the time of conducting Press

Conference the accused had not shown any

photographs in order to indicate that complainant

Mohan Kumar was whom he was addressing to. As

such, a burden is shifted upon the complainant either

to prove that the libel which was made by the accused

person and he had pointed out towards the

complainant himself so as to lower his image in the

eyes of the right-thinking members of the society. It is

settled principle of law, that at times it is not required

to point out the complainant in particular, but if such

references are made which would only portray the

complainant and if innuendos are made indicating of

portraying the complainant and further if innuendos

are made indicating of the involvement of the

complainant, then the proof of the same is suffice to 55 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 hold that the accused with a malice or with a malafide

intention had tried to defame the complainant. The

underlining aspect is that the accused had intention

and knowledge to cast imputation and further the

same was duly published to persons in whose eye the

image of the complainant was lowered. In order to

better appreciate the same, it would be appropriate to

rely upon the judgment relied upon by the learned

counsel for the Complainant reported in 1984 SCC

Online, Bombay 256 (Indian Express Newspapers, Bombay

V Dr Jagmohan Mundhara and another) wherein it has

been held as: The question really is how ordinary
sensible men having the special
knowledge would understand the
innuendo complained of. In Morgan v. Odhams Press Ltd.(1971) 1
WLR 1239, the House of Lords, per
majority held as follows:-- (The Dissent by the two judges was only
in respect of the conclusion that the
article in question in that case
complied with the conditions) 15. It is also no defence to say that
people would not believe the
imputations to be true. In Morgan's
case (citation supra) Lord Morris of
Borthy Gost expressed agreement with
the following observations made by
Goddard L.J. in Hough v. London
Express Newspaper Ltd., (1940) 2 K.B.
507:-- 30. Further in another judgment Reported in

(1971)1 SCC 885 ( Sukra Mahto v. Basudeo Kumar Mahto )

it has been held as under; 8. The ingredients of the Ninth
 Exception are first that the imputation
 must be made in good faith; secondly,
 the imputation must be for protection
 of the interest of the person making it
 or of any other person or for the public
 good. Good faith is a question of fact.
 So is protection of the interest of the
 person making it. Public good is also a
 question of fact. This Court
 in Harbhajan Singh v. State of
 Punjab [AIR 1966 SC 97 : (1965) 3 SCR
 235 : 1966 Cri LJ 82] in dealing with
 the Ninth Exception to Section 499 of
 the Penal Code, 1860 said that it would
 have to be found out whether a person
 acted with due care and attention. This
 Court said there "Simple belief or
 actual belief by itself is not enough.
 The appellant must show that the
 belief in his impugned statement had a
 rational basis and was not just a blind
 simple belief. That is where the element
 of due care and attention plays an
 important role. The person alleging
 good faith has to establish as a fact
 that he made enquiry before he made
 the imputation and he has to give 59 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 reasons and facts to indicate that he
acted with due care and attention and
was satisfied that the imputation was
true. The proof of the truth of the
statement is not an element of the
Ninth Exception as of the First
Exception to Section 499 . In the Ninth
Exception the person making the
imputation has to substantiate that his
enquiry was attended with due care
and attention and he was thus
satisfied that the imputation was true.
The accent is on the enquiry, care and
objective and not subjective
satisfaction. 9. This Court in Chaman Lal v. State of
Punjab [(1970) 1 SCC 590 : 1970 SCC
(Cri) 253 : AIR 1970 SC 1372] dealing
with good faith in the Ninth Exception
said that "in order to establish good
faith and bona fide it has to be seen
first the circumstances under which
the letter was written or words were
uttered; secondly whether there was
any malice; thirdly, whether the
appellant made any enquiry before he
made the allegations; fourthly, whether
there are reasons to accept the version
that he acted with care and caution
and finally whether there is
preponderance of probability that the
appellant acted in good faith". 31. The main ratio which has been laid down in the aforesaid case is the question how ordinary

sensible man having special knowledge would

understand the innuendo of the complaint. Once

again at the cost of repetition the factual aspects

when recapitulated could indicate that at no point of

time the complainant was being addressed or called

by the name Mohan Kumar. It is the specific con-

tention that he was not being addressed as RT Nagar

Mohan or BDA Mohan at any point of time. Under

these circumstances the contention of causing innu-

endo is seriously required to be appreciated to under-

stand whether the accused did have any knowledge

that the complainant was the one whom he had re-

ferred as RT Nagar Mohan or BDA Mohan. When the

complainant himself submits before the court that he

was not being addressed by any other name and

when his friends and other witness who were exam-

ined have tendered evidence before the court that the 61 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 Complainant was not addressed by any other name,

the main aspect of entertaining knowledge and

malafide intention seems to be not established.

Though it is contended by the complainant that in

the said interview published by the B-Tv channel the

photograph of the Complainant was being published,

the question which requires to be answered is why

the publisher or the person who had telecasted the

interview is not made as necessary party. It is also

rather interesting to note the evidence tendered by

the witness examined as PW-2 to PW-5 is not at all

corroborated and in fact, each of the witness have de-

posed in different manner viz one of the witness de-

poses that the accused was conducting the press

conference along with 10 other persons sitting with

him in the channel office and another witness de-

poses that the accused was standing Infront of the

BDA office holding the photograph of complainant

and depicting it to be the who was involved in said il- 62 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 legal activities. Furthermore, the complainant himself

has admitted that the accused was not holding any

photograph and infact it was a live interview given by

the accused person. Further the complainant has ad-

mitted in his cross examination that he doesn't know

who had given his photograph to the news channel.

Under the circumstances, there is lot of inconsis-

tency in the evidence of the complainant with that of

his witness. That apart in order to attract the rigors

of innuendo, the complainant is required to establish

the identity when the same depends on extrinsic

facts and that fact must be proved and pleaded in the

complainant. Further it is relevant to note that in the

instant case, the complainant has submitted that the

alleged interview, which was given by the accused

person amounted to innuendo. Further it is required

to look into whole of the statement rather than the

words which the complainant intends to commit the

offence of innuendo. In this regard, I have relied upon 63 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in

(1990)3 SCC 396 (M J Zakharia Sait V T M Mohammed)

wherein it is held as: 32. In Gatley on Libel and Slander (8th
edn.) in paragraph 95, while dealing
with "True and False Innuendoes", it is
observed that in distinguishing between
the ordinary and natural meaning and 65 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 the innuendo meaning of words, the
substantive law cannot be separated
from the requirements of pleadings and
the rules of evidence. When the
plaintiff wishes to rely on any special
facts as giving the words a defamatory
or any particular defamatory meaning,
he must plead and prove such facts
including, where necessary, any special
knowledge possessed by those to whom
the words are published which gives
the words that meaning, and must set
out the meaning in his pleading. Where
words are not defamatory in their
natural and ordinary meaning but are
so only by reason of extrinsic
circumstances, the plaintiff must plead
also those circumstances and the
precise defamatory meaning conveyed
by them to those persons to whom the
words were published. Otherwise, the
statement of claim will disclose no
cause of action. Such an innuendo is
required to be pleaded whenever the
plaintiff relies on any extrinsic facts as
giving to the words the meaning he
alleges. The plaintiff must plead the
words, the extrinsic facts and
knowledge of those facts on the part of
one or more of those persons to whom
the words were published. He can also
give evidence of any facts and
circumstances which he has pleaded
and which would lead reasonable 66 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 persons to infer that the words were
understood in that meaning provided
such facts or circumstances were
known to those persons to whom the
words were published. The evidence
required is the evidence of special facts
causing the words to have a meaning
revealed to those who knew the special
facts. 33. Street in his treatise on Torts (6th
edn.) at page 294, has stated that
where nothing is alleged to give an
extended meaning, words must be
construed by the judge in their
ordinary and natural meaning. The
whole of the statement must be looked
at, not merely that part on which the
plaintiff relies as being defamatory,
although, of course, it may be relevant
to take account of the greater
importance of some part of a
statement, e.g. the headlines of an
article in a newspaper. There may be
circumstances where the plaintiff
alleges that the statement is
defamatory because specific facts
known to the reader give to the
statement a meaning other than or
additional to its ordinary meaning; this
is known as a true or legal innuendo.
In that case, the plaintiff must plead
and prove such facts, for the defendant
is entitled to know that meaning of the
statement on which the plaintiff relies 67 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 so that he is able to argue either that
the statement in that meaning is not
defamatory or that it is then true of the
plaintiff. There is a third possibility.
The words may have a meaning beyond
their literal meaning which is inherent
in them and arises by inference or
implication: this is sometimes known
as the "false" innuendo. The plaintiff
has to plead separately any such
"false" innuendo. A "false" innuendo
differs from a "true" innuendo in that
the pleader of a "false" innuendo does
not set out any extrinsic facts in
support of his plea. 34. Duncan and Neil in their book
on Defamation (1978 edn.) while
referring to "innuendo" on page 17
onwards have stated that the law of
defamation recognises that (a) some
words have technical or slang meaning
or meanings which depend on some
special knowledge possessed not by the
general public but by a limited number
of persons and (b) that ordinary words
may on occasions bear some special
meaning other than their natural and
ordinary meaning because of certain
extrinsic facts and circumstances. The
plaintiff who seeks to refer to an
innuendo meaning has to plead and
prove the facts and circumstances
which give words a special meaning. He
has also to prove that the words were 68 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 published to one or more persons who
knew these facts or circumstances or
where appropriate, the meaning of the
technical terms etc. 35. While referring to the test where
identification depends on extrinsic
facts, the learned authors have stated
that where identification is in issue,
the matter can sometimes be decided by
construing the words themselves in
their context. More often, however, the
plaintiff will be seeking to show that
the words would be understood to refer
to him because of some facts or
circumstances which are extrinsic to
the words themselves. In these cases
the plaintiff is required to plead and
prove the extrinsic facts on which he
relies to establish identification and, if
these facts are proved, the question
becomes: would reasonable persons
knowing these facts or some of them,
reasonably believe that the words
referred to the plaintiff. 36. Where identification depends on
extrinsic facts these extrinsic facts
must be pleaded because they form part
of the cause of action. 37. The conspectus of the authorities
thus shows that where the defamatory
words complained of are not
defamatory in the natural or ordinary
meaning, or in other words, they are
not defamatory per se but are 69 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 defamatory because of certain special
or extrinsic facts which are in the
knowledge of particular persons to
whom they are addressed, such
innuendo meaning has to be pleaded
and proved specifically by giving the
particulars of the said extrinsic facts.
It is immaterial in such cases as to
whether the action is for defamation or
for corrupt practice in an election
matter, for in both cases it is the words
complained of together with the
extrinsic facts which constitute the
cause of action. It is true that Section
123(4) of the Act states that the
statement of fact in question must be
"reasonably calculated to prejudice the
prospects" of the complaining
candidate's election. However, unless it
is established that the words
complained of were capable of being
construed as referring to the personal
character or conduct of the candidate
because of some specific extrinsic facts
or circumstances which are pleaded
and proved, it is not possible to hold
that they were reasonably calculated to
prejudice his prospects in the elections.
For, in the absence of the knowledge of
the special facts on the part of the
electorate, the words complained of
cannot be held to be reasonably
calculated to prejudice such prospects.
Once, however, it is proved by laying 70 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 the foundation of facts that the words
 in question were, by virtue of the
 knowledge of the special facts, likely to
 be construed by the electorate as
 referring to the personal character or
 conduct of the complaining candidate,
 it may not further be necessary to prove
 that in fact the electorate had
 understood them to be so. That is
 because all that Section 123(4) requires
 is that the person publishing the
 complaining words must have intended
 and reasonably calculated to affect the
 prospects of the complaining candidate
 in the election. 32. In the aforesaid authority the Hon'ble Apex

Court has explained that where the defamatory

words complained of are not defamatory in the natu-

ral or ordinary meaning, or in other words, they are

not defamatory per se but are defamatory because of

certain special or extrinsic facts which are in the

knowledge of particular persons to whom they are

addressed, such innuendo meaning has to be

pleaded and proved specifically by giving the

particulars of the said extrinsic facts. Though it is 71 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 argued that a separate proceeding against media and

press was being initiated by the complainant, the

same would not be suffice to indicate that the ac-

cused had entertained malafide intention, unless it is

established by him. I have also considered the au-

thorities which is relied upon by the Learned Senior

Counsel for the appellant reported in (2016) 7 SCC

221 ( Subramanian Swamy v. Union of India, Ministry of

Law AIR 2016 SC 2728), which is discussed supra. 33. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Apex

Court has held that to constitute the offence there

has to be an imputation and it must have been made

in the manner as provided in the provision with the

intention of causing harm or having reason to believe

that such imputation will harm the reputation of the

person to whom it is made. Further, it has been held

that existence of mens rea is a condition precedent to

constitute the said offence and the complainant has

to show that accused had intended or known or had 72 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 reason to believe that the imputation made by him

would harm the reputation of the complainant. If

only the materials available on record is considered,

once again an enormous burden will be casted upon

the complainant to establish that the accused had

entertained a mala fide intention wherein, he had

made allegations intended or had reason to believe

that it would harm the reputation of the com-

plainant. However, the materials which are placed on

record does not indicate that the accused was having

knowledge that the complainant is the same person

who was being called by the name R.T. Nagar Mohan

or BDA Mohan. Even otherwise it has been

elucidated in the cross examination of the com-

plainant that he had never met the accused person

or they had any acquittance earlier. Under the cir-

cumstances the interview which was given by the ac-

cused person when considered in ordinary sense

would definitely indicate that the accused didn't had 73 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 any knowledge that the complainant was being ad-

dressed by name R T Nagar Mohan or BDA Mohan

and that apart when the entire interview is consid-

ered the accused seems to be speaking of persons

who are involved in corrupt activities in BDA and the

main aspect which was being stated by him that nec-

essary action would be initiated against such per-

sons. As such the contention of the complainant that

the statement was aimed at him to defame him in the

society cannot be accepted. 34. For a moment, I have considered the sub-

missions made by the Learned Senior Counsel

wherein it is submitted that in the deposition and

also during the course of cross-examination it was

suggested in a categorical manner which would

amount to admission that the complainant was being

addressed as R.T.Nagar Mohan and BDA Mohan. In

order to better appreciate the same at the cost of rep-

etition, the Exhibits which were marked during the 74 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 course of cross-examination as Ex. D1 which is copy

of the plaint in OS No. 1111/2021 is required to be

looked into. The said plaint was confronted to the

complainant and wherein it was narrated, "the

plaintiff is popularly known as R.T.Nagar Mohan

alias BDA Mohan among his friend circle". 35. The aforesaid aspect when once again ap-

preciated with the cross examination of PW1, it would

indicate that he had categorically admitted making

such an averment in his plaint. However, he has de-

posed that it was mentioned inadvertently and to the

specific question for the reason of filing a case against

the TV channels, he has answered that as his photo-

graphs was telecasted, he had filed a suit against

them. Further he has deposed that on the same day

at about 07.00 a.m. in the morning, the 18 th defen-

dant in the said civil suit was showing promotion

slides and videographs. However, his photograph was

not published. To a specific question he has answered 75 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 that since his photo was not shown it could not be

possible for him to hold that the interview pertained

to himself, the witness has admitted the same. Fur-

ther, he has categorically admitted that he had not

made enquiries to ascertain that who had handed

over the photographs to the newspapers or the televi-

sion media. If for a moment the cross examination is

juxtaposed and appreciated with the basic ingredients

of the defamation suit, it would clearly indicate that a

bounden duty is casted upon the complainant to indi-

cate that the publisher who had telecasted the same.

In this regard reliance is placed on the judgment ren-

dered in [2006] 3 All ER 336 (Bunt v Tilley & Ors)

wherein it is held as: 47. It is further provided by Regulation
17(2) that acts of transmission and of
provision of access, for the purposes of Regulation 17(1) , would include the
automatic, intermediate and transient 77 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 storage of the information transmitted
where it takes place for the sole
purpose of carrying out the
transmission in the communication
network, and provided that the
information is not stored for any period
longer than is reasonably necessary for
the transmission. That again is a point
raised by Mr Bunt in the present
proceedings. He submits that the
material, or some of it, is cached for
too long a period for it to be
characterised as "reasonably
necessary". It is appropriate for this to
be judged in the light of the automatic
system put in place and the objective it
is intended to achieve. The evidence is
set out in some detail below. 48. Regulation 18 is concerned with
caching: 49. The commentary in Gatley at para.
6.28 is helpful: However, the provision does not confer
immunity against the grant of an
injunction" . The learned editors mention (in
footnote 21) a possible qualification
with regard to web-based e-mail, which
is normally stored on the provider's
server until deleted by the customer.
This qualification has been developed
further by Dr Collins, op cit, at para.
17.08: 50. Dr Collins also addresses (at para.
17.09) the matter of bulletin board
postings and web pages, and concludes
that Regulation 17 will usually apply
to internet intermediaries who operate
computer systems through which
particular bulletin board postings and
web pages happen to pass en route
from one computer to another. This is
subject to the proviso that the
intermediary does not store the
constituent IP datagrams for any
period longer than is reasonably
necessary for the transmission. Dr
Collins suggests that, in order to
attract the protection of Regulation 17 ,
an intermediary would need to
configure its computer system to delete
any copies of the relevant datagrams
immediately after receiving an
acknowledgment that they have been
received by the intended recipient.
Should the datagrams be stored for a 81 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 longer period, the intermediary would
 be likely to be deemed to have "cached"
 or "hosted" them. 51. The purpose of Regulation 18 is to
 protect internet intermediaries in
 respect of material for which they are
 not the primary host but which they
 store temporarily on their computer
 systems for the purpose of enabling the
 efficient availability of internet
 material. Many ISPs and other
 intermediaries regularly cache, or
 temporarily store, commonly accessed
 web pages on their computer systems,
 so that those pages will be more
 quickly accessible to their subscribers.
 This is described by the learned editors
 of Gatley (at para. 6.29) as a "sort of
 half way house between mere
 transmission and 'hosting"'. 36. In the aforesaid judgment rendered by the

Hon'ble Queens Bench of Hon'ble High court of

England and Wales, the court had an occasion to dis-

cuss about Defamation Act 1996, the Electronic Com-

merce (EC Directive) Regulations 2002, wherein Regu-

lation no.17 and 18 was being discussed and had

held that the internet provider who was considered as 82 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 intermediary service provider one must be a service

provider who is both customer of an upstream service

provider and supplier to a downstream service

provider. The facts are akin in the instant case also

since the B-TV channel were the one who had only

published the interview and as such the publisher

had to indicate that: 37. However, in the instant case, it is noticed

from the cross examination itself that the accused

had not pointed out to the complainant by holding

any photographs since the complainant himself has

admitted in his cross examination that the accused

did not do so. Further the photograph was published

by the intermediary news channel and also the

evidence of the complainant would indicate that he

had initiated proceedings against some other news

channel and press and out of which one TV channel

had apologized and had withdrawn the content. If for

a moment the same is considered the, facts which

could be spelled out is that accused was not the one

who had published the photograph and indeed he

never met or had any acquaintance with the

complainant and he had given statement in generic

sense. Hence, the liability was to be fastened upon 84 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 the publisher also and unless it is established that

 the accused was solely responsible for making libel

 and also for its publication, the complaint against

 him is not maintainable perse. 38. Further in the judgment referred supra in

(1990)3 SCC 396 (M J Zakharia Sait V T M Mohammed) it

has been specifically laid down by the Hon'ble Apex

Court that in the matters of making allegations of in-

nuendo necessary pleadings are required to be made

by pointing out the special or extrinsic facts in the

knowledge of the person making such a statement.

Once again at the cost of repetition the evidence is re-

quired to be looked into wherein the complainant has

specifically deposed that he was not called by any

other name apart from Mohan Kumar. It is also rele-

vant to note that evidence of PW.5 who is none other

than the uncle of PW.1 complainant would indicate

that he was not called by any other alias names. It is

his specific contention that since in the television it 85 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 was being stated that a person who is residing in

R.T.Nagar by name Mohan Kumar, he had presumed

that it was his nephew as the one who was being

pointed out. However, he has deposed that his

nephew was not being addressed as R.T.Nagar Mohan

at any point of time. This particular evidence coupled

with the evidence which is placed before the court

would clearly indicate that the allegations which were

leveled were not pertaining to the complainant herein

and as such the innuendo has not been established. 39. I have also bestowed my anxious reading to

the witnesses who were examined before the court as

PW.2 to PW.5. The witnesses who were examined has

categorically deposed in a manner which is totally

contrary to each other's statements. All these aspects

do not help the case of the prosecution. 40. The other aspect which is required to be

considered is whether the admission given by the ac-

cused during the course of recording his statement 86 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., will be fatal to this case.

It is a settled principle of law that the admissions

given by the accused during the course of evidence

cannot be brushed aside as a stray admission. The

Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

counsel for complainant has vehemently argued that

during the course of recording of the statement under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C., and in particularly the Question

No.2 was answered in affirmative by the accused

himself. For the sake of brevity, the Question No.2

recorded under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C., is extracted which

reads as under; ಪ್ರ.02. ಪ್ರಾ ಸಾ.01 ಮೋಹನ್ ‍ ಕುಮಾರ್‍, ಇವರು ತಮ್ಮ
 ಸಾಕ್ಷ್ಯದಲ್ಲಿ ಆರೋಪಿಯಾದ ನೀವು ದಿಃ 10.02.2021 ರಂದು ಬಿ - ಟಿವಿ ಚಾನಲ್‍ ಗೆ ಹಾಜರಾಗಿ ಸದರಿ ಮೋಹನ್ ‍ ಕುಮಾರ್ ‍ ಬಿಡಿಎ

 ಹಗರಣಗಳ ಕಿಂಗ್ ‍ ಪಿನ್ ‍, ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಮಾರಾಟದಾರರಿಗೆ
 ದಲ್ಲಾ ಳಿ, ಬಿಡಿಎ ನಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದಿರುವ ಅಕ್ರಮಗಳಿಗೆ ಮತ್ತು
 ಭ್ರಷ್ಟಾ ಚಾರಗಳಿಗೆ ಆತನೇ ಕಿಂಗ್ ಪಿನ್ ‍ ಎಂದು ಹೇಳಿರುತ್ತೀರಿ ಎಂದು
 ನುಡಿದಿರುತ್ತಾ ರೆ. ಈ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ನೀವು ಏನು ಹೇಳಬಯಸುತ್ತೀರಾ?
 ಉತ್ತರಃ ಹೌದು ಹೇಳಿರುತ್ತೇನೆ. 41. When the aforesaid question and answer is

carefully appreciated, it would indicate that the

accused had admitted for the said answer. However,

when the further answers given to Question No. 3 to 5

is appreciated, it would indicate that the accused was

specifically denying of giving any statement against

accused person. Even otherwise the question which

has been put forth to the accused is also required to

be considered. In the said question it was questioned

to him that on 10.02.2021 he had appeared before

BTV and had given an interview stating that the said

Mohan Kumar was the kingpin of BDA corrupt

activities and he was also acting as inter-mediatory.

The said statement has been admitted by the witness.

However, if for a moment Question No.3 is consid-

ered, it would also indicate that he had denied the

said aspect. When the entire aspect is conjointly read,

it would only lead to an inference that the accused

was not particularly pointing out to the complainant 88 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 herein. Even otherwise if the answer to the question

is accepted, the aspect which is required to be consid-

ered is the admission of the accused given under Sec.

313 of Cr.P.C., cannot be a sole ground for conviction.

The answers which are given is not under oath. Only

the admissions which are made by the accused under

oath is to be considered as a substantive piece of evi-

dence. Though it is arguable that the recording of

statement under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., is not an

empty formality but it carries its own value. In my

humble opinion, the statement alone cannot be a

ground to convict the accused person and it is settled

law that the admission or the answers rendered in

statement recorded under sec 313 of Cr.P.C though

cannot be held as stray admission, but the same can

only be considered as link or chain to the case of the

prosecution. Last but not the least, I have also con-

sidered the contentions which have been urged by the

parties. The Learned Senior Counsel Smt. Lakshmi 89 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 Iyengar appearing on behalf of the Learned Counsel

 for accused has relied upon the following judgments

 of the Hon'ble Apex Court; (a) Criminal Appeal No. 2033/2025 (Shahed
 Kamal and others Vs. M/s A.Surti Devel-
 opers Pvt. Ltd., and another (b)1981 SCC Online Del 270 ( S.Nihal Singh
 and others Vs. Arjan Das, New Delhi ) (c) (AIR 2017 Supreme Court 5608) Mo-
 hammed Abdulla Khan Vs. Prakash (d)(AIR 2002 Supreme Court 2989) K.M.-
 Mathew Vs. K.A.Abraham (e) (2025 INSC 241) Jaideep Bose Vs. M/s
 Bid and Hammer Auctioneers Pvt. Ltd. 42. By looking into the aforesaid aspects, the

main fact which is required to be considered is the

complainant had utterly failed to prove their case be-

yond reasonable doubt. It is also pertinent to note that

a presumption of innocence until proved guilty will be

always upon the accused person. The Hon'ble Apex

Court in catena of decisions has laid down the dictum 90 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 that the appellate courts should be slow in interfering

with an order of an acquittal passed by the appellate

courts. 43. In this regard, I have relied upon the judg-

 ment of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2007) 4

 SCC 415 ( Chandrappa v. State of Karnataka ) wherein it

 has been held as: It has been laid down by this Court that
 it is open to the High Court on an
 appeal against an order of acquittal to
 review the entire evidence and to come
 to its own conclusion, of course,
 keeping in view the well-established
 rule that the presumption of innocence
 of the accused is not weakened but
 strengthened by the judgment of
 acquittal passed by the trial court
 which had the advantage of observing 91 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 the demeanour of witnesses whose
evidence have been recorded in its
presence. It is also well settled that the court of
appeal has as wide powers of
appreciation of evidence in an appeal
against an order of acquittal as in the
case of an appeal against an order of
conviction, subject to the riders that
the presumption of innocence with
which the accused person starts in the
trial court continues even up to the
appellate stage and that the appellate
court should attach due weight to the
opinion of the trial court which
recorded the order of acquittal. If the appellate court reviews the
evidence, keeping those principles in
mind, and comes to a contrary
conclusion, the judgment cannot be
said to have been vitiated." (emphasis supplied) 29. Venkatarama Ayyar, J. (minority),
in his dissenting judgment stated : (AIR
pp. 227-28, para 34)
"Do the words 'compelling reasons' in
the above passage import a limitation
on the powers of a court hearing an
appeal under Section 417 not
applicable to a court hearing appeals
against conviction? If they do, then it
is merely the old doctrine that appeals
against acquittal are in a less favoured
position, dressed in a new garb, and 92 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 the reasons for rejecting it as unsound
are as powerful as those which found
favour with the Privy Council in Sheo
Swarup v. R. Emperor [(1933-34) 61 IA
398 : AIR 1934 PC 227 (2)] and Nur
Mohd. v. Emperor [AIR 1945 PC 151 : 47
Cri LJ 1] . But it is probable that these words were
intended to express, as were the
similar words of Lord Russell in Sheo
Swarup [(1933-34) 61 IA 398 : AIR 1934
PC 227 (2)] that the court hearing an
appeal under Section 417 should
observe the rules which all appellate
courts should, before coming to a
conclusion different from that of the
trial court. If so understood, the
expression 'compelling reasons' would
be open to no comment. Neither would
it be of any special significance in its
application to appeals against
acquittals any more than appeals
against conviction." (emphasis supplied) 30. In Sanwat Singh v. State of
Rajasthan [AIR 1961 SC 715 : (1961) 3
SCR 120 : (1961) 1 Cri LJ 766] a three-
Judge Bench considered almost all
leading decisions on the point and
observed that there was no difficulty in
applying the principles laid down by the Privy Council and accepted by the
Supreme Court. The Court, however,
noted that appellate courts found 93 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 considerable difficulty in
understanding the scope of the words
"substantial and compelling reasons" 34. Putting emphasis on balance
between importance of individual
liberty and evil of acquitting guilty
persons, Krishna Iyer, J. said : (SCC p.
799, para 6)
"6. Even at this stage we may remind
ourselves of a necessary social
perspective in criminal cases which
suffers from insufficient forensic
appreciation. The dangers of
exaggerated devotion to the rule of
benefit of doubt at the expense of social
defence and to the soothing sentiment
that all acquittals are always good
regardless of justice to the victim and
the community, demand especial
emphasis in the contemporary context 94 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 of escalating crime and escape. The
judicial instrument has a public
accountability. The cherished
principles or golden thread of proof
beyond reasonable doubt which runs
thro' the web of our law should not be
stretched morbidly to embrace every
hunch, hesitancy and degree of doubt.
The excessive solicitude reflected in the
attitude that a thousand guilty men
may go but one innocent martyr shall
not suffer is a false dilemma. Only
reasonable doubts belong to the
accused. Otherwise any practical
system of justice will then breakdown
and lose credibility with the
community. The evil of acquitting a
guilty person light-heartedly, as a
learned author (Glanville Williams
in Proof of Guilt) has sapiently
observed, goes much beyond the simple
fact that just one guilty person has
gone unpunished. If unmerited
acquittals become general, they tend to
lead to a cynical disregard of the law,
and this in turn leads to a public
demand for harsher legal presumptions
against indicted 'persons' and more
severe punishment of those who are
found guilty. Thus, too frequent
acquittals of the guilty may lead to a
ferocious penal law, eventually eroding
the judicial protection of the guiltless.
For all these reasons it is true to say, 95 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025 with Viscount Simon, that 'a
miscarriage of justice may arise from
the acquittal of the guilty no less than
from the conviction of the
innocent....' In short, our
jurisprudential enthusiasm for
presumed innocence must be moderated
by the pragmatic need to make
criminal justice potent and realistic. A
balance has to be struck between
chasing chance possibilities as good
enough to set the delinquent free and
chopping the logic of preponderant
probability to punish marginal
innocents." (emphasis supplied) 42. From the above decisions, in our
considered view, the following general
principles regarding powers of the
appellate court while dealing with an
appeal against an order of acquittal
emerge: 44. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Apex

 Court has specifically held that when an order of ac-

 quittal is passed, the appellate courts cannot interfere

 in a mechanical manner and only when there is

 glaring lapses in the procedural aspects and also in

 appreciating the evidence, the court can interfere. I

 have bestowed my anxious reading to the entire judg-

 ment which is rendered by the trial Court. On consid-

 ering the same and also by independently assessing

 the entire file, I do not find any illegality in apprecia-

 tion of the evidence. Though this Court had looked

 into the materials independently and assigned rea-

 sons therein, the impugned judgment and order of ac-

 quittal does not suffer from any illegality and hence

 the points for consideration are answered in the

 Negative. 41. Point No.5: In view of my findings on Point

No.1 to 4, I proceed to pass the following: 98 Crl.Apl. No.1060/2025