Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned A.G.A. for the State as well as learned counsel for the informant and perused the material on record. The present bail application has been filed by the applicant with a prayer to enlarge him on bail in Case Crime No.0290 of 2019, under Sections 376DA , 386 , 120B IPC, Section 3/4 POCSO Act, 66C, 66D, I.T. Act and Section 3(2) (5) SC/ST Act, P.S. Bakewar, District Etawah. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that according to FIR, informant's daughter aged about 16 years, whose date of birth is 07.05.2003 used to go for tuition and in the meantime she developed friendship with Deepu @ Deepak, who on 26.07.2019 at about 3.00 p.m. enticing the victim took her in a vacant house and committed rape where his drifter friends Devesh, Sahil Kumar and some unknown came, all therefore, by threatening her and fearing committed rape upon her and unknown friends prepared obscene video and photographs, they also threatened her that if she tells to anyone they will viral the photos and videos. Next day called her and threatened to viral the photos and videos and demanded money, when she refused then snatched her gold chain and asked to give her father's ATM and its password. The victim did not tell to anyone about it. Thereafter from mobile nos.8923919276 and 8439604682 blackmailing calls received on victim's mobile but she blocked. Then continuous calls from mobile nos.7065616506, 8218292587 and 90128909 were made to mobile of victim for demanding money. On 30.07.2019, the victim told about the incident. The informant complained to the father of Deepu @ Deepak, who replied that his son is vagrant. The objectionable photos and videos were uploaded on social networking site on 31.07.2019. He further submits that as per FIR Deepu @ Deepak, applicant as well as other co-accused committed rape upon her but is not supported from the statement of the victim before the Doctor as the victim has stated that other molested and attempted to commit rape upon her. He further submits that no evidence has been collected about objectionable photographs and videos on social media. The 11 photographs were handed over to the I.O. but by whom those photographs were uploaded is not clear. No mobile has been recovered either of informant or accused. He also submits that the mobile numbers referred in the FIR are not concerned with the accused. The 11 photographs, which have been handed over to the I.O. are related to the victim and co-accused Deepu @ Deepak. He next submits that it appears that subsequently other accused persons have been implicated cooking false story. As per statement of the victim under Section 164 Cr.P.C., co-accused Deepu @ Deepak demanded money on which the chain was handed over by the victim. Role of the applicant is identical with the co-accused Sahil Kumar and he has been granted bail. The statement of the victim under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded on 05.08.2019. The statement of the informant under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded on 29.08.2019, who stated that Raja Khan, Devesh, Sahil committed rape upon his daughter and Sheelu and Raja threatened to viral the video, thereafter they made the video viral. Thus, to this extent informant has improved his statement. On 27.09.2019 in additional statement, informant has stated that Sheelu @ Rajnish and Raja Khan demanded Rs. 1.00 lakh otherwise they will viral the video, on which victim handed over the chain even then they made viral the video, which was also sent on his Whats-App. According to video DVD was handed over to the I.O., which was seen on laptop and conversation for demanding money took place between Sheelu @ Rajnish and Raja Khan but what conversation took place no where it has been disclosed in the CD. He further submits that no sample of voice was taken to ascertain that the conversation was made by the applicant. He also submits that co-accused Devesh has already been granted bail in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No.2935 of 2020. He next submits that there is no possibility of the applicant of fleeing away from the judicial process or tampering with the witnesses and, in case, the applicant is enlarged on bail, the applicant shall not misuse the liberty of bail and the applicant is languishing in jail since 03.08.2019. Per contra, learned A.G.A. as well as learned counsel for the informant have opposed the bail prayer of the applicant and submit that in additional statement informant has stated that Sheelu @ Rajneesh and applicant demand Rs.1.00 lakh otherwise they will viral the video and when demand was not conceded they posted the video on the Whats-App of the informant, the case of Sheelu @ Rajneesh and case of applicant are identical and a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No.42102 of 2019 considering the nature of allegation has declined the bail prayer of the co-accused Sheelu @ Rajneesh, therefore, applicant is not entitled for bail. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case as well as submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties, although bail application of Sheelu @ Rajneesh has been declined by a Co-ordinate Bench but in view of the statement of the victim before the Doctor that Deepu @ Deepak established physical relationship with her and co-accused molested and attempted to commit rape upon her and allegation about demand of money against Deepu @ Depak, sample of voice being not taken during investigation with regard to conversation of the applicant with the co-accused and also perusing the material on record, in my opinion without expressing any opinion on merit of the case, applicant is entitled for bail, let the applicant- Raja Khan @ Aabid Ahamad involved in aforesaid case crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two local sureties each of the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned, subject to the following conditions :- The party shall file computer generated copy of such order downloaded from the official website of High Court Allahabad. The concerned Court/Authority/Official shall verify the authenticity of such computerized copy of the order from the official website of High Court Allahabad and shall make a declaration of such verification in writing. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground of cancellation of bail. Order Date :- 17.11.2020
 
MAA/-