Shri Amitabh Gupta, learned counsel for the applicant.
Shri Prakash Gupta, learend Panel Laywer for the State.
Shri J.K.Jain, learned Assistant Solicitor General for the
CBI. Heard learned counsel for the parties. This bail application has been filed by the applicant, who
has been arrested on 16.07.2015 and is in Jail in
connection with Crime No.316/2015 registered with Police
Station Misrod Bhopal (M.P.) – commonly known as
VYAPAM Examination Scam cases - for the offences
punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120B IPC r/w Section 3 (gha) (1-2) r/w Section 4 of M.P.Manyata
Prapt Priksha Adhiniyam, 1937. Applicant has been arrested and is in custody since
16.7.2015. Applicant is alleged to have appeared as an
impersonator for a candidate namely, one Prem Prakash
Meena s/o Muniraj in the written examination conducted
for appointment to the post of Assistant Grade-III by the
Professional Examination Board. Except for the fact that
as on date, the beneficiary Shri Prem Prakash Meena has
not been arrested, entire investigation is over and the
challan has been filed. Learned counsel for the State on instructions submits
that investigation against the applicant is complete in all
respects. No further investigation is pending against the
 applicant nor custodial interrogation of the applicant is
necessary in connection with the subject crime. It is
stated that investigation is complete and presence of the
applicant is no more necessary, coupled with the fact
applicant through counsel undertakes to appear before
the Investigating Officer as and when called for further
investigation including against him as also to punctually
appear before the trial court to ensure early disposal of
the criminal trial. Taking note of all these circumstances and the fact that in
the cases of all other persons similarly situated, bail has
been granted, this application is also allowed. In the
interest of justice, taking overall view of the matter, we
deem it appropriate to grant bail to the applicant (Pintu
Kumar) on following strict conditions :- However, subject to the modification that the surety to
be granted may be of a local surety or blood relation.
With the aforesaid, this application stands disposed of
accordingly. Certified copy as per rules.