1. The appellants are aggrieved with the order-in-original No. 18/MP/91 dt. 18-3-1991 passed by the Collector of Central Excise and Customs, Vadodara confirming the demands raised in the show cause notice dt. 4-10-1990 and has demanded duty amounting to Rs. 3,02,67,299.90 (Three crores, two lakhs sixty seven thousand two hundred ninety nine and paise ninety only) Basic Excise duty Rs. 2,88,25,800.47 + Special Excise duty - Rs. 14,41,491.43) in respect of alleged illicit removal of Acrylic Fibre during the period October, 1989 to August, 1990 under the provisions of Rule 9(2) of Central Excise Rules, 1944 read with proviso to sub-section (1) of Section- 11A of Central Excises and Salt Act,1944. (ii) imposed a penalty of Rs. 1 crore under Rule 209 of Central Excise Rules, 1944. (iii) Ordered confiscation of land, building, plant and machinery etc. belonging to them and used in the manufacture, production, storage and removals of Acrylic Fibre under the provisions of clause (a) to sub-rule (2) of Rule 209 of Central Excise Rules, 1944. However, granted redemption of the same by imposing a fine of Rs. 1 lakh. 2. The appellants are engaged in the manufacture of "Acrylo nitrile" falling under heading/sub-heading 2926.00. They are also manufacturing "Acrylic fibre" falling under head/sub-heading 5501.30. They are consuming the "Acrylo nitrile" within the factory of production for manufacture of "Acrylic fibre" and were availing set off of duty on said "Acrylo nitrile" under Notification No. 225/86-C.E., dated 3-4-1986 at the time of clearance of "Acrylic fibre" 3. The allegations set out in the Show Cause Notice dated 4-10-1990 are that on the basis of the information received to the effect that the appellant/assessee had been debiting the entire amount of duty from RG 23A Part-II account on the clearance of "Acrylic Fibre" and that they have not been discharging their duty liability as per the ratio declared by them and approved by the proper officer of the said clearance and thereby evading huge amount of payment of proportionate duty from PLA. 4. The officers of the Department visited the factory and carried on checks and verifications on 27-9-1990. The officers have found that the assessee had been availing set off of duty in respect of "Acrylo nitrile" used in the manufacture of "Acrylic fibre" since August, 1989, as provided in the Notification No. 225/86-C.E., dated 3-4-1986 as amended. It was further observed that the assessee had filed declaration on 20-7-1989 giving ratio of input to output i.e. the quantity of input required for the manufacture unit of output (finishedproduct) and other detailed viz. quantity of input lost during the manufacture of one unit of output, and not quantity used in one unit of output. It was further observed that for the period from Oct., 1989 to Aug., 1990 the assessee had debited the entire amount of duty from RG 23A Part-II account only and not as per the ratio declared by them and approved by the proper office. The statement of Shri S.S. Bhatnagar, Deputy Manager (Excise and Customs) in the assessee company was recorded. In his statement among other things, he has stated the assessee had started availing set off of duty on "Acrylo nitrile" used in the manufacture of "Acrylic fibre" since August, 1989. He admitted not having maintained set off register but submitted that they had maintained RG-23A Part I and RG 23A Part-II account register. He has further stated that they had debited duty on the clearances of "Acrylic fibre"/"Dry skin Acrylic fibre" from RG-23A Part-II account only except additional Excise duty under Textile and Textile Articles Act. On a query from the officers to explain as to why they had not followed the approved procedure, Shri Bhatnagar had explained that a huge amounts of set off had accumulated during the period from Aug., 1989 to Oct., 1989 on account of payments through PLA and therefore the eligible amounts of set off out of available amounts of set off have been utilised subsequently. The details of input and output observed from the declaration filed on 20-7-1989 for availing set off under Notification No. 225/86-C.E., dated 3-4-1986 as amended is as follows :- It has been contended in the Show Cause Notice, that as per the set off of procedure laid down vide Baroda Collectorate's Trade Notice No. 126/81, dated 22-5-1981 the assessee was required to maintain Register of set off of duty and is also required to make adjustment of duty paid on inputs used in the manufacture of finished goods at the time of removal of finished goods on the basis of the above ratio. It is further alleged that on scrutiny of the records maintained by the assessee in this behalf, the officers found that the assessee had not adopted the correct set off procedures as prescribed for the set off available under Notification No. 225/86-CE, dated 3-4-1986 issued vide Rule 8(1) of Central Excise Rules, 1944 and had not paid duty as per the above ratio from RG 23A Part II account and from PLA. It has been alleged that the assessee has not followed the procedure intentionally to evade appropriate duty of excise by not debiting from PLA on the clearances of 'Acrylic Fibre'. The officers worked out the details of duty paid in RG 23A Part II account by the assessee, the set off of duty payable in RG 23A Part II account and differential duty required to be paid for the period Oct., 1989 to Aug., 1990. Accordingly, a duty demand on difference of duty amounting to Rs. 3,02,67,299.90 on the clearances of "Acrylic fibres" for the period from Oct., 1989 to Aug., 1990 has been demanded from the assessee and also have been charged for contravention of provisions of Rule 173F read with Rule 9(1) of Central Excise Rules, 1944. The assessee were asked to explain why said demanded duty should not be recovered under Rule 9(2) of Central Excise Rules, 1944 read with proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 11A of Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944. They were also asked to explain why the land, building, plant and machinery etc. belonging to them should not be confiscated in the light of the provisions of clause (a) to sub-rule (2) of Rule 209 of Central Excise Rules, 1944 and also penalty be not imposed under sub-rule (1) of Rule 209 of Central Excise Rules, 1944. 5. The assessee filed the reply on 25-10-1990 denying the allegations of evasion of payment of duty besides the allegation of clandestine removal or wilful mis-statement or suppression. It was contended inter alia that effective from 1-8-1985 vide Notification No. 169/85-C.E., dated 19-7-1985 the goods falling under TI 18 of Central Excise Tariff (under which Acrylic Fibre was formerly classified) had been put under physical control and it continued to be so even after the introduction of CETA, 1985 in terms of Entry at Item (d) of the table to Notification No. 23/86-C.E., dated 10-2-1986. It was contended that the provisions of Chapter VILA of Central Excise Rules, 1944 had not been applicable to Acrylic Fibre since 1-8-1985 and that it attracted the provisions of Chapter V of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 i.e. physical type of control. 6. It was contended that all the activities of production, storage and removals of the product Acrylic Fibre takes place under the supervision of the Central Excise officers and all the documents relating to production, storage and removals including the ones like AR Is, GPls etc. were prepared/processed under the supervision of and under the guidance of the Central Excise officers and the records bear their signatures as testimony of correctness thereof. 7. It was further stated that all the monthly reports and returns like RT3 were always submitted by them in the form and manner desired/directed by the Central Excise officers exercising physical type of control on the respective commodities. 8. They contended that they had detailed discussions with the jurisdictional Assistant Collector as well as the Superintendent of Central Excise with regard to the formalities and procedures and they applied for permission to avail set off of duties on ACN for use in the manufacture of Acrylic fibres as per their letter dated 20-7-1989. The jurisdictional Assistant Collector had permitted them to avail set off of duties by his letter dated 28-7-1989. They contended that the removal and use of ACN for Acrylic fibre is within the knowledge of the Department. It is contended that from 1-8-1989, they started removing A.C.N. to their Acrylic fibre plants on full payment of duties at the normal effective rates for captive consumption on the basis of the permission granted and an intimation to that effect was also submitted to the jurisdictional Superintendent/Assistant Collector vide their letter dated 1-8-1989. They have further stated inter alia as follows :- 9. The assessee through their advocate again filed another reply dated 30-1-1991 and this reply besides the submissions stated above, they have also relied on several rulings of the Supreme Court and High Courts in support of their contentions. 10. The learned Collector after careful consideration of the submissions made by the assessee and after fully hearing them, rejected their contentions and confirmed the demands made in the Show Cause Notice and also imposed fine and penalty against them. 11. The learned Collector has held that the wording of the Notification are very clear that manufacturer is eligible to avail only that much quantum of duty as set off; what is paid on inputs and taken as credit when output manufactured is cleared. He has held that the assessee had utilised the entire balance of duty lying in RG 23 as set off and therefore, he held that the assessee has not correctly availed the set off of duty for the purpose of Notification No. 225/86. He has also held that the assessee had failed to follow correct procedure as stipulated in the Baroda Collectorate Trade Notice No. 126/81, dated 22-5-1981 for maintenance of records, submission of returns etc., in as much as the assessee were required to maintain 'set off register but they had not maintained the same and availed the set off duty at their own way which is not permissible. 12. He has negatived the assessee's contention that the Asstt. Collector had approved the procedure followed by them and has noted the Asstt. Collector's letter by which the said Asstt. Collector had granted approval, subject to the assessee fulfilling the conditions stipulated in the Notification. 13. He has further held that what the assessee has availed in the name of set off is nothing but a credit of duty and therefore, to this extent, according to learned Collector, the assessee could be said to have committed mis-statement to the Department and hence liable for penal action under Rule 209(1) of Central Excise Rules, 1944 for suppression of facts and mis-statement. He has held that violation of the provisions of-Notification is nothing but a 'fraud' and the intent is obvious to evade payment of duty. He has held that "The whole thing is undoubtedly a fraud, a calculated fraud. Such behaviour calls for stern penal action. The connivance of departmental officers is not necessary. It can even be possible that one set of officers of the Department were not even alert to see through the design of IPC h. Yet fraud is a fraud. Well, if departmental officers colluded, then collusion would have also been an allegation. That is not the case before me." 14. Therefore, the learned Collector on the basis of his findings held the charges as proved and held the assessee to have contravened the provisions of Rule 173F read with Rule 9(1) of Central Excise Rules, 1944 and committed the offence described in clause (a) and (d) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 209 of Centra! Excise Rules, 1944 and for penal action under sub-rule (1) of Rule 209 of Central Excise Rules, 1944. 15. We have heard Shri Willingdon Christian, learned advocate for the appellants and Shri L.N. Murthy, learned JDR for the Department. 16. Shri Willingdon Christian, learned advocate submitted that the appellant had been following the procedure for the last eleven years which was within the full knowledge of the Department. The said procedure had not been disapproved or challenged by the Department. He submitted that the procedure followed by them was as per the clarification given by the Board's Circular dated 1-4-1981. He contended that proper utilisation of credit had been done. He submitted that the Notification in question was pan materia with the Notification No. 201/79 and, therefore, the rulings rendered approving such procedure was fully applicable to the facts of the instant case. In this connection, he relied on the ruling rendered in the case of Good Year India Ltd. v. Union of India as reported in 1990 (28) ECC 22 Delhi. He contended that the Notification in question required to be liberally interpreted and in this connection relied on the ruling rendered by Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of India v. Wood Paper Ltd. as reported in 1990 (47) E.L.T. 500 (S.C.). On contemporaneous exposition of similar Notification, he relied on the following ratios :- 17. He contended that when two views were possible from reading of a Notification, then the benefit of the Notification has to go in favour of the assessee and relied on the ruling in the case of C.C.E. v. Park Exports Ltd., reported in 1989 (19) ECC 49. He further contended that if credit is available on utilisation of inputs then the benefit of set off has to be extended otherwise it would defeat the purpose of the legislation. In this regard, he relied on the ruling rendered in the case of Vatanmal v. Kailash Nath as reported in 1989 (22) ECR 488 SC. He contended that there is no financial loss to the revenue in the matter. 18. Shri W. Christian learned advocate arguing on the question of time bar, contended that at the material time, the factory of the assessee was under physical control with 8 inspectors, 4 sepoys and one Superintendent attached to the factory for inspection and excise control. He contended that the assessee had made the application for grant of permission and the same was approved by the jurisdictional Asstt. Collector. He contended that each entry in set off register had been verified and signed by the various gate passes during the material time. He further contended that the learned Collector had held the assessee had committed fraud but this allegation was not made out in the Show Cause Notice and therefore, the learned Collector had proceeded beyond the case made out by the Department. He placed for perusal a calculation sheet, by which, he argued that the details of set off could be verified and hence the assessee had not violated any provisions of law. He relied on the ruling of the Hon'ble Supreme Court as rendered in the case of Collector of Central Excise v. Chemphar Drugs and Liniments as reported in 1989 (43) E.L.T. 276 and that of Padmini Products v. Collector of Central Excise as reported in 1989 (43) E.L.T. 195 and submitted that the Department had not made out their case both on law and on time bar and hence prayed for setting aside the impugned Order of the learned Collector. 19. Shri L.N. Murthy, learned JDR replying to the arguments of the appellants contended that the impugned Order was a well reasoned one and that it did not suffer from any illegality and is sustainable. He contended that the assessee was not entitled to avail of the benefit of set off in their own name and the violation of the procedure laid down in the Notification in question and in the Trade Notice issued by Baroda Collec-torate. He sought for upholding the Order of the learned Collector. 20. We have carefully considered the submissions made by both the sides and perused the records. The question that arises for our consideration is as to (i) whether the assessee has violated the procedure as laid down in the Notification No. 225/86-C.E, dated 3-4-1986 and thereby disentitling the benefit of set off utilised by them and thereby becoming liable to pay the duty and for imposition of penalty on them as per the relevant cited rules of Central Excise Rules, 1944; and (ii) if so, is the demand confirmed is barred by time? The relevant rules granting the manufacturer the benefit of set off is Rule 56A and also Rule 57F of Central Excise Rules, 1944. The Notification No. 225/86-C.E, dated 3-4-1986 grants the benefit of exemption to the excisable goods of description specified in column (5) of the Table thereto annexed (such goods are referred to as "Final Product") and falling under such chapter, heading number or sub-heading number of the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 as is specified in the corresponding entry in column (4) of the Table, from so much of duty of excise leviable thereon under Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 as is equivalent to the duty of excise leviable thereon under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 or the additional duty leviable under the Customs Act, 1975 as the case may be already paid on the goods of the description specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) of the said Table (such goods are referred to as 'inputs') used in or in relation to the manufacture of the final products." 21. In the instant case there is no dispute regarding the 'input' acrylonitrite (ACN) being used in the manufacture of final goods "Acrylic Fibre'. The input and final product are falling in the specified chapter, heading and sub-heading in the Notification. The only doubt the learned Collector has is in regard to the term 'as is equivalent to the duty of excise leviable thereon' as appearing in the Notification. From the reading of the Notification the learned Collector has found that the procedure adopted by the asses-see is not as what is contemplated from these wordings and the Trade Notice No. 126/81, dated 22-5-1981 issued by Baroda Collectorate. The allegation in the Show Cause Notice is that as per set off procedure laid down in the said Trade Notice the assessee is required to maintain register of set off of duty and is also required to make adjustment of duty paid on inputs issued in the manufacture of finished goods at the time of removal of finished goods on the basis of ratio given in the declaration filed by the assessee. The ratio is:- 22. The assessee has prepared the total duty paid on the input and the same is adjusted as and when the output Acrylic fibre is manufactured and removed for clearances. They have maintained all the registers and the same has been scrutinised, checked and found in order by the excise staff posted in the assessee's factory and who were exercising physical control of the clearances of the assessee's goods. 23. The simple question for determination is as to whether this procedure alleged to be required to be followed by the Department in the Show Cause Notice is mandatory and if that procedure is violated does it call for disentitlement of set off taken by the assessee? Is there any fraud, a calculated fraud in violating the procedure as held by the learned Collector to attract larger period of limitation to confirm the duty? 24. Before embarking on this aspect of the matter, it is necessary to have a look at the interpretation given by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and High Courts and the Tribunal in the citations relied by the learned advocate on this aspect of the matter. 25. We will first examine the rulings pertaining to contemporaneous exposition which the learned Counsel has relied upon. In the case of State of Tamil Nadu v. Modi Papers as reported in 1989 (40) E.L.T. 266. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed relying on the earlier ruling rendered in the case of Deshbandhu Gupta and Ors. v. Delhi Stock Exchange reported in 1979 (4) SCC 565 and Verghese v. I.T.O. in 1981 13 ITR 597; that contemporaneous exposition by the Administrative authorities is a very useful and relevant guide to the interpretation of the expression used in a statute. 26. Similarly, the Supreme Court in the case of C.C.E., Guntur v. Andhra Sugars Ltd. as reported in 1989 (19) ECC 46 has observed as follows :- 27. The Supreme Court in the case of Union of India v. Wood Papers Ltd. as reported in 1990 (47) E.L.T. 500 has laid down certain guidelines for interpretation of statute and also interpreting an exemption notification by relying on the several rulings rendered by the Supreme Court. The observations made in para 2 as follows :- 28. The Hon'ble Supreme Court again has clarified about interpreting an expression in the Schedule and in an exemption Notification in the case of Collector of Central Excise v. Parle Export (P) Ltd. as reported in (1989) 19 E.C.C. page 49 at paras 17,18,19 and 20. The said paras are reproduced herein below :- 29. In the case of Vatan Mal v. Kailash Nath as reported in 1989 (22) ECR 488 in para 12 at page 494, it is observed as follows :- In the case of Mangalore Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner as reported in 1991 (55) E.L.T. 437 the Hon'ble Supreme Court again considered the question of procedural condition of a technical nature and a substantive condition and held that non-observance of the former is condonable, while that of the latter is not condonable, as observed in paras 11 and 12 which is re-produced below :- [Emphasis Supplied]
 

[See : (1965) 3 SCR 626 at 630]
 

Such is not the scope or intendment of the provisions concerned here. The main exemption is Under the 1969 notification. The subsequent notification which contains condition of prior-permission clearly envisages a procedure to give effect to the exemption. A distinction between the provisions of statute which are of substantive character and were built-in with certain specific objectives of policy on the one hand and those which are merely procedural and technical in their nature on the other must be kept clearly distinguished. What we have here is a pure technicality. Clause 3 of the notification leaves no discretion to the Deputy Commissioner to refuse the permission if the conditions are satisfied. The words are that he "will grant". There is no dispute that appellant had satisfied these conditions. Yet the permission as withheld - not for any valid and substantial reason but owing to certain extraneous things concerning some interdepartmental issues. Appellant had nothing to do with those issues. Appellant is now told "we are sorry. We should have given you the permission. But now that the period is over, nothing can be done". The answer to this is in the words of Lord Denning: "Now I know that a public authority cannot be estopped from doing its public duty, but I do think it can be estopped from relying on a techincality and this is technicality." [See Wells v. Minister of Housing and Local Government: 1967 (1) WLR 1000 at 1007]. Francis Bennion in his "Statutory Interpretation", 1984 edition, says at page 683: The choice between a strict and a liberal construction arises only in case of doubt in regard to the intention of the Legislature manifest on the statutory language. Indeed, the need to resort to any interpretative process arises only where the meaning is not manifest on the plain words of the statute. If the words are plain and clear and directly convey the meaning, there is no need for any interpretation. It appears to us the true rule of construction of a provision as to exemption is the one stated by this Court in Union of India and Ors. v. Wood Papers Ltd. and Ors. [1991 JT(1) 151 at 155]: (Emphasis supplied) 30. The learned advocate has contended that the above rulings attempted to show that the analogy given in the case of interpretation of Notification No. 201/79-C.E, dated 4-6-1979 which has got similar terms as the Notification in question has to be accepted. In this connection, he has relied on the ruling of Good Year India Ltd. and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors. as reported in 1990 (28) ECC 22 rendered by Delhi High Court. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court has observed in paras 29,30,31, 32 and 34 as follows :- 31. The learned advocate has drawn the analogy of Notification No. 201/79-C.E., a Notification in question that is 225/86 and with the help of the Supreme Court rulings and the Delhi High Court rulings as submitted the same should apply to the facts in question. 32. The Tribunal has also examined the question of proforma credit and as to how the credit has to be utilized on inputs while interpreting Notification No. 227/79; 95/79-C.E and 67/85-C.E, dated 17-3-1985 and in terms of Rule 56-A of Central Excise Rules as in the case of Collector of Central Excise, Bangalore v. Wipro Information Technology as reported in 1988 (33) E.L.T. 172 in paras 20 to 23 as follows :- 33. The Bench in para 7 has held in respect of Trade Notice as follows :- 34. The above view was reiterated in the case of Sarvottam Ispat Pvt. Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise as reported in 1989 (41) E.L.T. 181 in para 5 as follows :- However, the ERB in the case of East India Phannaceuticals Works Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise as reported in 1991 (54) E.L.T. 355 departed from the view taken in Wipro 's case. The observation given in para No. 8 of the Order is reproduced herein below :- As could be seen the ruling rendered in East India case (supra) is in contra with the findings given in M/s. Wipro as well as the ruling of the Delhi High Court as rendered in the case of Good Year India Ltd. As the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has given the ruling earlier to the E.R.B.'s East India's case, the ratio of the ruling of M/s. Good Year 's case would apply to the case in hand. 35. Now it has to be seen as to whether the finding given by the learned Collector is sustainable in the facts and circumstances of the case and in the light of the ratios of the rulings rendered above. 36 The admitted facts are that the assessee's factory is under physical control of the Department. The entire operation of the inputs and outputs have been checked and supervised. The records have been scrutinised and regular assessment of RT 3 returns has been done, RG 23A II and P.L.A. has been regularly looked into. The AR l's, GP l's have also been prepared/processed under the official supervision. It is also admitted fact that the procedure was finalised after the assessee had discussions with Superintendent and Asstt. Collector and Asstt. Collector permitted them by his letter dated 28-7-1989. 37. It is also an admitted fact that the Department had not drawn the attention of the assessee the procedure set out in Notification No. 126/81, dated 22-5-1981 and also a copy not furnished to the assessee. It is also clear that the Notification No. 225/86-C.E., dated 3-4-1986 does not stipulate maintaining set off register and the officers have also not insisted or directed them to maintain the same. The learned Collector's finding is that the Notification No. 225/86-C.E. requires the manufacture to avail of set off of duty equivalent to duty involved on input taken into use for manufacture of final product and that the assessee had misused the permission granted by the Asstt. Collector. The finding of the learned Collector is too vague and merely to say that the assessee by not maintaining set off register gets disentitled for the benefit is not sustainable. There is absolutely no dispute of the input being entitled to the benefit of Notification for the manufacture of final product. In the absence of any statutory or mandatory condition of maintaining a set off register, the Department cannot insist upon it and deny the benefit solely for that reason. The learned Collector has held that the assessee has acted in variance of the permission granted by the Assistant Collector by his letter dated 28-7-1989. The letter of Assistant Collector as incorporated in the order itself merely reads as follows :- There is no condition in Notification No. 225/86 for maintaining 'set off register. The learned Collector is drawing strength from the Trade Notice No. 126/81, dated 22-5-1981. Admittedly, this Trade Notice has not been brought to the notice of the assessee, further there is no trade notice issued under Notification No. 225/86. Therefore, the strict compliance of TN 126/81 cannot be insisted upon, much so when the officials themselves not having brought to the assessee's notice nor the Asstt. Collector in his letter dated 28-7-1989 informing the assessee to follow such procedure as laid down in Trade Notice No. 126/81. In the ruling Wipro Information (supra) the bench has clarified that Trade Notice No. 126/81 issued on the basis of administrative instructions has no statutory force. The Hon'ble Supreme Court ruling rendered in the case of Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner as reported in 1991 (55) E.L.T. 437 is applicable to the facts of this case. 38. The learned Collector has implied by his reading of the Notification that the condition for grant of benefit is that the manufacture has to avail set off of duty equivalent to duty involved on input taken into use for manufacture of final products. But the reading of the Show Cause Notice dated 4-10-1990 it is very clear that the charges have not been levelled on the basis of this understanding by the Department. Nor it was alleged that this was the understanding which both the Department and assessee had understood, while utilising the credit of the duty. Therefore, the learned Collector has travelled beyond the Show Cause Notice to give a new interpretation to the wordings of the Notification, other than what a simple reading has been given, understood and applied by the officials of the Department and the assessee. Even this understanding is erroneous. This understanding is not supported by any direct ratio of any Court ruling. In fact similar wordings are found in Notification No. 178/77-C.E, dated 18-6-1977, 179/77-C.E, dated 18-6-1977 and No. 201/79, dated 4-6-1979. The rulings rendered by Delhi High Court in the case of Good Year India Ltd. and Ors. (supra) and Wipro Information (supra) and Sarvottam Ispat (P) Ltd. (supra) are in favour of the assessee. As the Supreme Court has held in the rulings rendered to above, the contemporaneous exposition has to be applied while interpreting similar Notification. If such ratio of rulings noted above of Tribunal is applied to this case, the reasoning of the learned Collector would be clearly erroneous. 39. The further allegation is that ratio as declared has not been adopted by the assessee. The assessee has clarified this point and have asserted that there was discussions with the Departmental officials and the procedure for set off and credit was adopted thereafter. The Department accepted the position and the procedure followed and records were prepared accordingly. The ratio given is also disputed by assessee. The Department has not shown how the violation has occurred especially when no such ratio is prescribed in the Notification No. 225/86-C.E., dated 3-4-1986 itself. 40. The allegation of not adopting the correct set off available under Notification No. 225/86-C.E., dated 3-4-1986 has not been established in this case. In the face of the officials having physical control and the records being checked and scrutinised every day and in that event to hold that there is a "calculated fraud" with connivance of the officials of the Department does not behold to the status of the learned Collector. It is now well settled that the adjudicating officers or Appellate Court should use temperate language and as held in the case of Iswari Prasad Misra v. Mohammad Isa as reported in AIR 1963 S.C. 1728 and it has also been held that use of unduly strong words in expressing conclusions or adopting of intemperate or extravagant criticism against contrary view should be avoided. The charge of suppression does not stand to reason in view of physical control, supervision by officials and daily checking of records and hence the demands are also time barred. The ratio of the ruling rendered by Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Padmini Product and Chemphar Drugs and Liniments cited by the learned Advocate is applicable to the facts of this case. 41. In view of our findings given above, the appellants succeed and the impugned Order is set aside.