1. List has been revised. 2. Heard Sri Chandra Prakash Singh, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Prashant Kumar Singh, learned counsel for the informant as well as Sri Sushil Kumar Shukla, learned State Law Officer and also perused the material placed on record. 3. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 402 of 2024, under Sections 323 , 354A , 376(3) of IPC and Sections 3 / 4(2) of POCSO Act, Police Station - Sikandrabad, District - Bulandshahar, during the pendency of trial. 4. As per prosecution story, the applicant is stated to have told the victim that he has her indecent video of taking bath and had blackmailed her. Under the said fear, he is stated to have called the victim to a hotel whereby she was shown the video but the said video was not found indecent rather it was the video wherein the victim along with her sister was seen going towards the tubewell. Subsequent to it, the applicant is stated to have misbehaved the victim and even beaten her up. He is also stated to have taken her to a pizza shop and spiked her coffee, as such, she was rendered unconscious and never known as to what happened with her. After gaining her consciousness, she managed to return her home. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant has argued that the applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. He has nothing to do with the said offence as alleged in the FIR. The FIR is delayed by about 7 days and there is no explanation of the said delay caused. 6. Learned counsel has also stated that as per the school certificate of the victim, her date of birth is 03.03.2010 but the said document is not an evidentiary value in light of Section 94 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. Learned counsel has next placed reliance upon the judgement of Supreme Court passed in P. Yuvaprakash vs State Rep. by Inspector of Police, AIR 2023 SC 3525, whereby it has observed that in the absence of records relating to the birth of the victim, no other documents except the Matriculation or equivalent certificate from the concerned examination board or certificate by a corporation, municipal authority or a Panchayat can be relied upon to ascertain the age of the victim. 7. Learned counsel has further stated that subsequently in the statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C., she has escalated the allegations of rape against the applicant while she has reiterated the allegations made in the FIR in her statement recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. It is also stated that the doctor, who had examined the victim, has categorically stated that no sexual assault has been subjected to the victim rather there are signs of force regarding physical assault to her as there are injuries sustained to the victim on her breast and on her back, as such, the applicant has not committed the offence of rape and is entitled for bail. 8. Learned counsel has next stated that criminal history of two cases assigned to the applicant stands explained as he has been exonerated in both the cases and the closure report has been filed in it. The applicant is languishing in jail since 09.06.2024 and he is ready to cooperate with trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. 9. Per contra, learned State Law Officer and learned counsel for the informant have vehemently opposed the bail application on the ground that it is true that the FIR is delayed but in the morning, non-permisive suicide a person seek many times instituting the FIR that too regarding the said grave offence of sexual assault. The injuries sustained by the victim on her body suggests that she has been subjected to sexual assault by the applicant although it is true that no penetrative sexual assault has been committed to her. 10. In the case of Prabhakar Tewari Vs. State of U.P. and another , (2020) 11 SCC 648, the Supreme Court has observed that pendency of several criminal cases against an accused by itself cannot be a basis for refusal of bail. 11. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and taking into consideration the settled law of the Supreme Court passed in Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. , 2022 INSC 690 and Manish Sisodia vs. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 INSC 595 and also the fact that the medical report indicates that there was no sexual assault committed with the victim although it is true that three injuries were present on the body of the victim; two on her breast and one on her back side, I find it a fit case to release the applicant on bail. The bail application is allowed. 12. Let the applicant- Nitin, who is involved in aforementioned case crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions. Further, before issuing the release order, the sureties be verified. 13. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 14. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses. Order Date:- 4.4.2025
 
Siddhant
 
(Justice Krishan Pahal)