1. The applicant has preferred this application for bail under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with FIR
 bearing CR No.II-7 of 2017 registered with Palghar Police Station for
 offences under Sections 8(c) , 22 , 27A and 29 of Narcotic Drugs and
 Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (` NDPS Act '). 2. The case of prosecution is that information was received
 through intelligence by ATS, Ahmadabad which was transmitted to Digitally signed by MANISH
 Superintendent of Police, Palghar and pursuant to that the raid was
 MANISH SURESH
SURESH THATTE
 Date: 2022.01.05
THATTE 13:56:58 +0530

 conducted on 19th May 2016. A farm house situated at Village
 Gaurpur, Tal.Wada. District Palghar was raided. There was seizure of
 2 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

560 kgs. 148 grams of Methaqualone, psychotropic substance. The
statements of arrested accused were recorded. The investigation was
conducted. The charge sheet was filed. 3. The applicant had preferred Criminal Bail Application No.975
of 2018 seeking bail before this Court. The said application was
rejected by order dated 4 th February 2019. Thereafter another
application for bail was moved before this Court viz Bail Application
No.1694 of 2019. The said application was rejected vide order dated
14th October 2019. It was urged that applicant is in custody from
25th May 2016. While disposing the said application it was observed
that considering the fact that applicant is in custody as urged by
applicant, directions can be issued to the Trial Court to expeditiously
conclude the trial. Trial was expedited. The Trial Court was directed
to conclude the trial within a period of nine months. The State was
directed to take immediate steps to appoint Special Public Prosecutor
for conducting trial. The prosecution and the defense were directed
to co-operate with the Trial Court in concluding the trial
expeditiously. It was also directed that the accused be produced
before the Trial Court regularly. However, in spite of passage of time
of two years, trial has not commenced. Resultantly applicant has
continued to be in custody for five and half years. 4. This application for bail is preferred primarily on the ground
that applicant is in custody for a period of more than five years. In
spite of directions to conclude trial expeditiously, there is no progress
in the trial. 5. Learned advocate for the applicant submitted as follows :- (ii) The period of nine months is over in July-2020 and yet
the trial has not yet commenced. Lock down was declared due to
Covid-19 from 23rd March 2020 and even prior to that the Trial Court
had five months from October-2019 to proceed with trial; (iii) The offences punishable under Sections 22 and 27A of
the NDPS Act are punishable with imprisonment for not less than ten
years but which may be extended up to twenty years, which would
mean that the minimum punishment for the offence is ten years
imprisonment. The applicant was arrested on 25 th May 2016 and he
had completed five years of imprisonment in May-2021. Thus, he
has already completed half the period of minimum sentence that can
be awarded to him before commencement of trial. Further custody
of the applicant is not justifiable as the applicant cannot be
incarcerated in jail for an indefinite period taking into consideration
the mandate of Article 21 of Constitution of India, the applicant is
entitled for bail; (iv) On perusal of order dated 14th October 2019 it can be
seen that the report was called from Trial Court regarding status of
trial, which was submitted before this Court on 23 rd September 2019.
In the said report it was stated that there was no co-operation from
the accused for framing charge, however, on perusal of roznama
 4 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

from 15th November 2016 to 23rd July 2020, it can be seen that no
such observation has ever been recorded by the Trial Court in the
roznama and no where it has come on record that the accused has
refused to co-operate and hence the delay in framing charge or
commencement of trial, cannot be attributed to the accused; (v) Application was made under the provisions of RTI to
find out exact number of cases pending before the Trial Court on 30 th
October 2019. As per the information received it can be seen that
the total number of NDPS cases pending before the Trial Court were
583 and the said number dates back to the year 1990. Out of 583
cases only four cases are pending because there is stay to the
proceedings and the rest of the cases are pending irrespective of
whether they are ready or not. Other cases are also pending before
Trial Court and the total number of cases are 1,126; (vi) The applicant was not named in the FIR and he has been
impleaded on the statement of co-accused. There is no recovery
from the applicant. He was not present at the place of offence when
the raid was conducted and recovery was made. Although it is
alleged that the applicant had purchased the land and in
consequence was the owner of the farm house, all the cheques of the
transactions for purchase were given by Vinod Gupta and his
statement is silent about involvement of applicant in the said
transaction. The applicant was only connected with the purchase of
the said land as an agent and he was never the owner of the said
land nor he had purchased the land in someone else's name. The
land is still registered in the name of Mr.Girimangal Prasad; 5 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc (vii) The applicant is wrongly impleaded on the basis of
statement of co-accused. He has no connection with contraband
recovered during investigation; (viii) In the case of Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee
representing Under Trial Prisoners Vs. Union of India and others
(1994)6-SCC-731, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India had issued
directions for grant of bail by categorizing the cases registered under NDPS Act . The direction No.(III) reads as follows : The offence under Section 27-A of the NDPS Act is punishable
with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
ten years, but may extend to twenty years. Section 22 of NDPS Act
provides punishment of imprisonment of not less than ten years
which may extend to twenty years. Thus, the minimum
imprisonment prescribed is for a period of ten years and the
applicant has undergone the imprisonment for a period of more than
five years. The half of the minimum punishment prescribed for the
aforesaid offence would be five years. Hence, considering the
directions of Supreme Court, the applicant is entitled for bail; (ix) Learned advocate for applicant also relied on the
following decisions :- 6 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc ( a) Shaheen Welfare Association Vs. Union of India and others (19962-SCC-616; Division Bench Judgment of Bombay High Court in Criminal Appeal
No.389 of 2020 decided on 23rd February 2021; ( g) Sanawar Ali Vs. Union of India and another - Division Bench
Order of Calcutta High Court in C.R.M.No.9314 of 2020, dated 27-
11-2020. 6. Learned APP submitted that previous applications for bail were
rejected by this Court. There is no change in circumstances. The
applicant is not entitled for bail on the ground of delay in trial. 7. The factual matrix as stated above indicate that the applicant
is charged with the offences under Sections 8(c) , 22 , 27-A and 29 of
the NDPS Act. The applicant is in custody from 25 th May 2016. He is
in jail for a period of five and half years. The trial has not
commenced and even charge has not been framed. Vide order dated
2nd September 2021 directions were issued to the Trial Court to
submit report about the status of trial. The report dated 22 nd
September 2021 was received from the Trial Court. It was stated
that NDPS cases were assigned to the said Court vide District Court
order dated 28th August 2020 w.e.f. 1st September 2020. During the
said period there was lock down due to Covid-19 pandemic and the
 7 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

Courts were not functional to its full strength. Since the NDPS cases
were assigned to the said Court, other matters were not assigned to
the Court. Some of the matters being part heard were kept for
hearing before his predecessor. Since then the matters were
bifurcated and accordingly listed and time to time the cases were
transferred to the said Court Special Public Prosecutor was
appointed to conduct the case. The matter was kept after framing
the charge. Due to lock down the accused were not produced from
jail and even the advocates were absent. One of the accused filed
application for bail. The accused were not produced from jail nor
they were produced through video conferencing for recording
charge. The advocate for the accused were also absent. Special
Public Prosecutor has filed draft charge. From 2 nd August 2021 the
Court has started to its full strength with 100% staff. The jail
authorities are producing the accused before Court or through video
conferencing. The matter will be taken up for framing charge
through video conferencing if they are not produced from jail. 8. Apparently even thereafter there is no progress in the trial.
While adjudicating the previous application for bail, which was
disposed of vide order dated 14 th October 2019, it was urged that the
applicant is in custody from 25th May 2016 and for prolonged
custody from the date of arrest he is entitled for bail. Special Public
Prosecutor was not appointed to conduct trial. At that point of time
report was called from Trial Court about status of trial since it was
urged that there is no progress in trial. The report dated 23 rd
September 2021 was forwarded stating that the charge sheet has
been filed in the case. Some of the accused have preferred
applications for bail. The accused had refused to co-operate in
 8 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

framing of charge. Special Public Prosecutor had informed that he is
unable to represent the State as he has not been notified as Special
Public Prosecutor by notification. The advocate for the applicant has
preferred application seeking directions to appoint Special Public
Prosecutor and the Court had directed the respondents to take
necessary steps to procure presence of Special Public Prosecutor.
Learned APP has submitted that Special Public Prosecutor will be
appointed shortly. Learned counsel for the applicant has stated that
observation in the report about refusal to co-operate with framing of
charge is not borne out in the roznama or in any document. Learned
APP at that point of time had submitted that trial would proceed
soon as Special Public Prosecutor would be appointed for conducting
trial. Taking into consideration aforesaid factual aspects, the
application for bail was rejected and the trial was expedited. It was
directed that Trial Court shall conclude trial within nine months.
The steps should be taken to appoint Special Public Prosecutor for
conducting trial and both the sides to co-operate with the Trial Court
in concluding trial. 9. In the current report the Trial Court has stated that on account
of lock down the trial could not be proceeded due to various
difficulties. It is pertinent to note that lock down was declared in
March-2020. The trial was expedited vide order dated 14 th October
2019. In any case, there is nothing to infer that the applicant was
responsible for delay in trial. The question which falls for
consideration is that the applicant is under incarceration from 25 th
May 2016. Although trial was expedited by order dated 14 th October
2019, the applicant has continued to be in custody for a further
period of more than two years thereafter without framing of charge. 9 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc 10. The point for determination is whether the applicant is entitled
for bail in view of directions issued by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee representing Undertrial
Prisoners case (supra). The submission of learned counsel for
applicant is that minimum punishment prescribed for the offence
charged against applicant is 10 years imprisonment and the applicant
has completed more than five years in custody. The Supreme Court
in the aforesaid decision has given directions that the accused
charged for the offences under NDPS Act may be released on bail on
completing five years of imprisonment when he is charged for the
offence under NDPS Act for minimum imprisonment for ten years
and a minimum fine of Rs.1,00,000/-. In paragraph 15 it was
observed that : 11. It is pertinent to note that the decision in Supreme Court Legal
Aid Committee Undertrial Prisoners (supra) was delivered by Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the light of pendency of several cases under NDPS
Act in Bombay and in many cases foreigners are under detention
without trial. The Supreme Court considered the scope and object of NDPS Act and provisions regarding constitution of Special Court to
deal with the cases under the said Act. In paragraph 15 the Supreme
Court had observed that the main reason which motivated the
Supreme Court Legal Aid Society to file the petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, was the delay in the disposal of cases under the
Act involving foreigners. The relief claimed included a direction to
treat further detention of foreigners, who were languishing in jails as
undertrials under the Act for a period exceeding two years, as void or
be released on bail and their cases be given priority over others. It
was pointed out to petitioners counsel that distinction between
foreigners and citizens is not possible. The petition was then
amended and it was submitted that all undertrials who are in jail for
offences under the Act for more than two years due to delay in trial,
be released from jail. 11 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc 12. The aforesaid decision was delivered prior to introduction of
Section 436-A in Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 with effect from
23rd June 2006, which reads as follows : 13. On reading the aforesaid provision it can be seen that it relates
to the offences under any law excluding the offense for which
punishment of death is specified as one of the punishment under that
law. It provides that where an accused has undergone detention for
a period extending up to one half of the maximum period of
imprisonment specified for that offence under that law, he shall be
released by the Court on his personal bond with or without sureties.
Thus, the criteria incorporated under the said provision for release is
that if person has undergone detention for a period extending up to
 12 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

one half of the maximum period of imprisonment specified for that
offence under that law. The title of Section 436-A makes it clear that
it relates to the maximum period for which the undertrial prisoner
can be detained. There are two provisos to said provision. The first
proviso indicate that the Court may, after hearing the Public
Prosecutor and after recording the reasons in writing, order the
continued detention of such person for a period longer than one half
of the said period or release him on bail instead of the personal bond
with or without sureties. The second proviso states that no such
person shall, in any case, be detained during the period of
investigation, inquiry or trial for more than the maximum period of
imprisonment provided for the said offence under that law. The
explanation to the said provision states that in computing the period
of detention under this section for granting bail, the period of
detention passed due to delay in proceedings caused by the accused
shall be excluded. Thus, the amended provision deals with the
situation where the undertrial prisoner is languishing in custody and
provides release by the Court on personal bond with or without
sureties where the accused has undergone detention extending one
half of the period of imprisonment specified for that offence. 14. The said provision applies to persons who are, during
investigation, inquiry or trial under Cr.P.C for the offence under any
law, in custody for period stiulated therein. The decision of the
Supreme Court in the case of Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee
Undertrial Prisoners (supra) deal with the undertrial prisioners
charged for the offences under NDPS Act . The direction Nos.15 (iii)
referred to hereinabove stipulated in the said decision was only
qualified with the fact that benefit of the said direction was not
 13 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

available to those accused who are in the opinion of the Court for the
reasons to be recorded in writing likely to tamper with evidence or
influence the prosecution witnesses. 15. The distinction in directions issued in the aforesaid decision
and Section 436-A of Cr.P.C, is that bail shall be granted to the
accused under NDPS Act under the categories mentioned therein and
one of the category which is sought to be applied in the present case
is based on the sentence undergone by the undertrial prisoner. The
Supreme Court judgment provides release of undertrial where he is
charged with an offence under the act punishable with minimum
imprisonment of ten years and minimum fine of one lakh on
completion of five years. Thus, if minimum sentence of
imprisonment provided under NDPS Act is 10 years, he shall be
released on bail on completing five years. The minimum punishment
provided for offences under Sections 22 and 27A of NDPS Act is ten
years. Whereas Section 436-A of Cr.P.C provides for release of
undertrial prisoner on bond with or without sureties when the
undertrial prisoner has completed one half of the maximum
punishment provided under the law. The Supreme Court decision
only relates to NDPS Act , whereas, Section 436-A takes care of all the
cases only excluding those offences for which death penalty is
provided. Thus, for example, the accused who is being tried for
offence under Section 27A of NDPS Act could be released on
completing five years, subject to condition stipulated in the said
decision. The maximum sentence for conviction under this Section is
twenty years and the minimum sentence provided is 10 years and
minimum fine of one lakh. If Section 436-A of Cr.P.C is made
applicable, the accused would be released on bail on completing one
 14 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

half of maximum sentence i.e. ten years (the maximum being twenty
years). The scope and object of incorporating of Section 436-A in Cr.P.C , which was brought in force w.e.f. 23 rd June 2006 (subsequent
to the decision of Supreme Court) is to take care of the situation
where the accused were tried for any offences are languishing in jail.
It is also clear that Section 436-A of Cr.P.C is subject to proviso
incorporated therein. It would be pertinent to note that for all the
other offences (other than NDPS act), Section 436-A would be made
applicable where the prisoner can be released in the event he is in
custody for a period of half of the maximum imprisonment provided
for the said offence. Whereas the accused who are prosecuted for
the serious offence under NDPS Act will have to be directed to be
released on bail on completion of half of the minimum sentence of
imprisonment provided by law. There would be discrimination
amongst persons tried for offences under NDPS Act and other laws.
Thus, after incorporating Section 436-A of Cr.P.C, debatable issue
had arisen on account of conflict between the directions in the said
decision and Section 436-A since both are based on sentence and
arithmatical calculation of period of custody. Learned advocate for
applicant has brought to my notice the decision of Calcutta High
Court in the case of Sanawar Ali Vs. Union of India (supra). The
Court considered the directions of Supreme Court in the case of
Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (supra). The Union of India
had argued that no law under Article 141 was declared in the above
decision. It was `one time direction'. The Calcutta High Court held
that right of bail to an undertrial prisoner flows from Article 21 of
Constitution of India. The Court referred to import of Section 436-A of Cr.P.C. However, the decision does not refer to distinction between
directions of Supreme Court for NDPS cases and Section 436-A of
 15 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc Cr.P.C . It is pertinent to note that Section 436-A does not exclude
offences under NDPS Act . In P.Ramchandra Rao Vs. State of
Karnataka , the question before Supreme Court was whether the
earlier decisions of Supreme Court in Common Cause registered Society Vs. Union of India ( 1996)4-SCC-33, Common A Registered
Society Vs. Union of India (1996)6-SCC-775, Rajdeo Sharma Vs.
State of Bihar (1998)7-SCC-507 and Rajdeo Sharma (II) Vs. State of
Bihar (1999)7-SCC-604, would apply to cases under Prevention of
Corruption Act and other economic offences. It was observed that no
person shall be deprived of his life or his personal liberty except
according to procedure established by law. Life and liberty, the
words employed in shaping Article 21 , are not to be read narrowly, in
the sense drearily dictated by dictionaries; they are organic terms to
be construed meaningfully. Speedy trial would encompass within its
sweep all its stages including investigation, inquiry, trial, appeal,
revision and retrial, in short every thing commencing with an
accusation and expiring with the final verdict. It was held that the
dictum in A.R.Antulay 's case is correct. The propositions emerging
from Article 21 of the Constitution and expounding the right to
speedy trial laid down as guidelines in A.R.Antulay 's case, adequately
take care of right to speedy trial. The time limits prescribed in the
above cases viz common cases (1) Rajdeo Sharma (i) and Raj Deo
Sharma (ii) could not have been prescribed. The bar of limitation
amounts to judicial legislation. Thus, although limitations were set
aside, it was held that the propositions emerging from Article 21 of
the Constitution and expounding right to speedy trial laid down in A.R.Antuley 's case, adequately take care of right to speedy trial
which was upheld and reaffirmed. 16 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc 16. The second question which arises for consideration is that the
applicant is in jail for a period of more than five years and even
without applying the criteria laid down under the decision in the
case of Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee Undertrial Prisoners
(supra), whether the applicant would be entitled for bail for
prolonged custody resulting in violation of Article 21 of Constitution
of India. There is no progress in trial. The accused has not delayed
the trial. This Court has expedited the trial. Even after the
directions to expedite the trial, may be for the reasons beyond the
control of Trial Court, practically the applicant has continued to be in
custody for a period of two years thereafter. The learned counsel for
applicant has contended that there are several witnesses to be
examined after framing charge. Charge has not been framed. In the
light of the overt act attributed to the applicant and considering the
fact that it is not clear as to when the trial could commence and
would come to an end and also considering the fact that applicant is
in custody for a period of more than five years, the applicant is
entitled for bail. Incarcerating the applicant in custody for indefinite
period violates fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of
Constitution of India. 17. In the case of Shaheen Welfare Association Vs. Union of India
and others (supra), it was observed by Supreme Court that it was
necessary to grant relief to those persons who have been deprived of
their personal liberty for a considerable length of time without any
prospect of trial being concluded in the near future. Undoubtedly,
the safety of the community and of the nation needs to be
safeguarded looking to the nature of the offences these undertrials
have been charged with. But the ultimate justification for such
 17 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

deprivation of liberty pending trial can only be their being found
guilty of the offences for which they have been charged. If such a
finding is not likely to be arrived at within a reasonable time some
relief becomes necessary. The Court was dealing with the cases
registered under the provisions of TADA Act . The Court was
conscious of the fact that there is embargo for release of prisoners
prosecuted for the offences of TADA u/s.20(8) of the said Act. The
Supreme Court divided the undertrial prisoners under TADA based
on their role/hard core criminals into various classes and by adopting
pragmatic and just approach relief was directed to be granted
considering gravity of the charges. The Courts were given discretion
to consider grant/refusal of bail based on antecedents and on
conclusion that there is no likelihood of harm to lives of complainant
and others in the event of their release. 18. In the case of Sanjay Chandra Vs. CBI (supra), it was observed
that object of bail is to secure the appearance of the accused person
at his trial by reasonable amount of bail. The object of bail is neither
punitive nor preventative. Deprivation of liberty must be considered
a punishment, unless it can be required to ensure that an accused
person will stand his trial when called upon. The courts owe more
than verbal respect to the principle that punishment begins after
conviction, and that every man is deemed to be innocent until duly
tried and duly found guilty. From the earliest times, it was
appreciated that detention in custody pending completion of trial
could be a cause of great hardship. Apart from the question of
prevention being the object of a refusal of bail, one must not lose
sight of the fact that any imprisonment before conviction has a
substantial punitive content and it would be improper for any Court
 18 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

to refuse bail as a mark of disapproval of former conduct whether the
accused has been convicted for it or not or to refuse bail to an un-
convicted person for the purpose of giving him a taste of
imprisonment as a lesson. The grant or denial is regulated to a large
extent by the facts and circumstances of each particular case. But at
the same time, right to bail is not to be denied merely because of the
sentiments of the community against the accused. The primary
purposes of bail in a criminal case are to relieve the accused of
imprisonment, to relieve the State of the burden of keeping him,
pending the trial, and at the same time, to keep the accused
constructively in the custody of the Court, whether before or after
conviction, to assure that he will submit to the jurisdiction of the
Court and be in attendance thereon whenever his presence is
required. 19. In the case of Thana Singh Vs. Central Bureau of Narcotics (supra), it was observed that the accused was languishing in prison
for more than 12 years and awaiting his trial for the offences under
the provisions of NDPS Act . He was consistently denied bail. The
maximum punishment for the offence was 20 years and he remained
in detention for the period exceeding one half of the maximum
period of imprisonment. The Court issued directions on various
issues, which would be of assistance to conclude trials pending in
Courts expeditiously. 20. In the case of Hussain and another Vs. Union of India (supra)
it was observed that the Supreme Court has given directions in
number of cases about speedy conclusion of trials. Speedy trial is
part of reasonable, fair and just procedure guaranteed under Article
21 of Constitution of India. Deprivation of personal liberty without
 19 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

ensuring speedy trial is not consistent with Article 21. While
deprivation of personal liberty for some period may not be avoidable,
period of deprivation pending trial/appeal cannot be unduly long. If
the accused is in custody for a grave offence such person may not be
released if trial is delayed. While a person in custody for a grave
offence may not be released if trial is delayed, trial has to be
expedited or bail has to be granted in such cases. The Court issued
directions and one of them was, as a supplement to Section 436-A
but consistent with the spirit thereof, if an undertrial has completed
period of custody in excess of the sentence likely to be awarded if
conviction is recorded, such undertrial must be released on personal
bond. Such an assessment must be made by the Trial Courts
concerned from time to time. Timely delivery of justice is a part of
human rights. Denial of speedy justice is a threat to public
confidence in the administration of justice. 21. In Abdul Rehman Antulay Vs. R.R.Nayak (1992)1-SCC-225,
while holding that speedy trial at all stages is part of right under Article 21. In the case of Hussainara Khatoon Vs. State of Bihar (1995)5-SCC-326, it was observed that general orders for release of
undertrials without reference to specific fact situations in different
cases may prove to be hazardous. While there can be no doubt that
undertrial prisoners should not languish in jails on account of refusal
to enlarge them on bail, for want of their capacity to furnish bail,
these are matters to be dealt with on case to case basis keeping in
mind guidelines laid down by Court. Sympathy for undertrials who
are in jail for long time on account of the pendency of cases, has to
be balanced having regard to the impact of crime. 20 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc 22. In Vivek Kumar Vs. State of U.P. (2000)9-SCC-443, bail was
granted to accused by Supreme Court on the ground that it is quite a
long period that he is in custody. In Babba Vs. State of Maharashtra
(2005)11-SCC-569, the accused was in custody for a long period for
offence under TADA Act . In Paramjit Singh Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ),
the Supreme Court granted bail. The accused was prosecuted under TADA Act . Earlier the application was rejected and trial was
expedited. There was no progress in trial. In the case of Angela
Sontakke Vs. State of Maharashtra (2021)3-SCC-723, the Supreme
Court granted bail to the accused facing prosecution under UAPA Act on the ground that accused is in custody for five years. 23. The settled principle of law is that prolonged custody affects
fundamental rights under Article 21 of Constitution of India. The
conflict at the most could be in the directions issued in the case of
Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (supra) and Section 436-A of
Cr.P.C; since the criteria for releasing the accused is based on
sentence and mathematical calculation of period of custody.
However, there is no debate that incarceration in custody for long
period without trial or completion of trial affects personal liberty
guaranteed under Article 21 of Constitution of India. 24. In relation to some offences under special legislations, there
are restrictions for granting bail. For example, Section 37 of NDPS
Act, Section 20(8) of TADA Act, Section 21(4) of MCOC Act and Section 43-D(5) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA Act).
The present case relates to offences under NDPS Act . Speedy trial is
right of all the undertrial prisoners. The decisions referred to herein
relates to grant of bail on the ground of prolonged custody in
 21 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

different kind of offences including those wherein there are statutory
restrictions. In the recent decision in the case of Union of India Vs.
K.A.Najeeb (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court was dealing with an
appeal challenging bail granted to the accused for the offence under UAPA Act and IPC . The accused therein was granted bail by the High
Court of Kerala, for the offences under Sections 143 , 147 , 148 , 120B , 341 , 427 , 323 , 324 , 326 , 506 , 201 , 202 , 153A , 212 , 307 , 149 IPC, u/s.31 of Explosive Substances Act and u/s.16 , 18 , 18B, 19 and 20 of UAPA act, 1967. The accused had approached the High Court
for third time questioning the Special Court's order denying bail.
The High Court through the impugned order released the accused on
bail noting that trial is yet to begin, though the respondent had been
in custody for four years. Placing emphasis on the mandate for an
expeditious trial under the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 ,
the High Court held that the undertrial-respondent could not be kept
in custody for too long when the trial was not likely to commence in
the near future, for not doing so would cause serious prejudice and
suffering to him. The accused had spent nearly five years and five
months in judicial custody. In the appeal before Supreme Court, the
contention of the appellants-Union of India was that the High Court
erred in granting bail without adverting to the statutory rigours of Section 43-D(5) of UAPA Act. Relying upon the judgment in the case
of National Investigation Agency Vs. Jahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (2019)5-SCC-1, it was highlighted that bail proceedings under the
special enactment were distinct and the courts are duty bound to
refuse bail where the suspect is prima facie believed to be guilty. It
was further contended that in numerous prior rounds before the
Special Court and the High Court, there emerged enough reasons to
believe that the respondent was, prima facie, guilty of the
 22 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

accusations made against him. The fact that the respondent had
absconded for years was pressed into aid as legitimate apprehension
of his not returning if set free. The NIA had filed an affidavit
suggesting to examine 276 witnesses and at the same time expecting
to conduct the trial on a day to day basis and complete it within a
year. The respondents, however, had contended that many co-
accused had been acquitted and few had been convicted. They were
awarded sentence of not more than eight years. The accused had
suffered incarceration of five and half years without trial having
started. Relying on the decision in the case of Shaheen Welfare
Association (supra) and Hussain and another (supra), it was argued
that protracted incarceration violates the respondent's right to
speedy trial and access to justice, in which case, Constitutional
Courts could exercise their powers to grant bail, regardless of
limitations specified under special enactments. In paragraph 10 it
was observed that it is a fact that the High Court in the said case has
not determined the likelihood of the respondent being guilty or not,
or whether rigours of Section 43-D(5) of UAPA Act are alien to him.
The High Court instead appears to have exercised its power to grant
bail owing to the long period of incarceration and the unlikelihood of
the trial being completed anytime in the near future. The reasons
assigned by the High Court are apparently traceable back to Article
21 of Constitution, of course without addressing the statutory
embargo created by Section 43-D(5) of UAPA Act. In paragraph 11 it
is observed that the High Court's view draws support from the batch
of decisions of Supreme Court including Shaheen Welfare Association (supra) laying down that gross delay in disposal of such cases would
justify the invocation of Article 21 of Constitution and consequential
necessity to release the undertrial on bail. The Court quoted
 23 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

paragraph 10 of the decision in the case of Shaheen Welfare
Association (supra). 25. In paragraph 12 of the decision in Union of India Vs.
K.A.Najeeb , it was observed as follows : 26. The Supreme Court then referred to the orders enlarging
similarly situated accused under UAPA Act in Angela Harish Sontakke
Vs. State of Maharashtra (2021)3-SCC-723. It was further observed
that the Court in its earnest effort to draw balance between the
seriousness of the charges with the period of custody suffered and
the likely period within which the trial could be expected to be
completed took note of the five years incarceration and over 200
witnesses left to be examined, and thus granted bail to the accused
notwithstanding Section 43-D(5) of UAPA Act. Reference was made
to the decisions in the case of Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe Vs. State of
Maharashtra (SLP {Cri.} No.7947 of 2015, order dtd.3.1.2017)
wherein the accused under UAPA Act was enlarged on bail since he
 24 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

was in custody for four years and there were several witnesses to be
unexamined. The Court analyzed the factual aspects of the matter
which were also weighed in granting bail. 27. Observations in paragraphs 15 to 18 of the decision in Union
of India Vs. K.A.Najeeb needs to be looked upon which are as
follows:- 28. In paragraph 19 of the said decision , however, the Supreme
Court has noted that Section 43-D(5) of UAPA Act is comparatively
less stringent unlike Section 37 of NDPS Act. However, in the earlier
 26 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

paragraph the Court has reiterated the fact that even in cases where
there are stringent provisions for bail, on the ground of prolonged
custody, bail has been granted. Reference is made to several
decisions of Apex Court. 29. Although it is not necessary to go deep into the restrictions like Section 37 of NDPS Act, Section 20(8) of TADA Act and Section
21(4) of MCOC act, since the right to speedy trial is supreme, it is
required to be noted that above provisions carrying embargo for
grant of bail under TADA Act, NDPS Act and MCOC Act are pari
materia. It is true there is distinction qua UAPA act. However, that
should not be hurdle in granting bail on the ground of infringement
of Article 21 of Constitution of India. No decision has been brought
to notice of the Court wherein bail has been refused by Supreme
Court, in spite of accused being in prolonged custody on the basis of
such restrictions. It is also pertinent to refer to extent to which such
rigours can be interpreted while granting bail. In the case of Ranjitsingh Sharma Vs. State of Maharashtra and another 2005-
ALL.MR (Cri)-1538-(SC), it is observed in quoted paragraphs as
follows : 45. The Act is deterrent in nature. It provides for
deterrent punishment. It envisages three to ten years of
imprisonment and may extend to life imprisonment.
Death penalty can also be imposed if somebody
commits a murder. Similarly, fines ranging between
three to ten lakhs can be imposed. 46. Presumption of innocence is a human right (See Narendra Singh and another Vs. State of MP (2004)10-
SCC-699:2004 ALL MR (Cri)2557 (SC). Para31). Article 21 in view of its expansive meaning not only
protects life and liberty but also envisages a fair
procedure. Liberty of a person should not ordinarily be
interfered with unless there exist cogent grounds
therefor. Sub-section (4) of Section 21 must be
interpreted keeping in view the aforementioned
salutary principles. Giving an opportunity to the public
prosecutor to oppose an application for release of an
accused appears to be reasonable restriction but Clause (b) of sub-section (4) of Section 21 must be given a
proper meaning. 47. Does this statute require that before a person is
released on bail, the Court, albeit prima facie, must
come to the conclusion that he is not guilty of such
offence ? Is it necessary for the Court to record such a
finding ? Would there be any machinery available to
the Court to ascertain that once the accused is enlarged
on bail, he would not commit any offence whatsoever ? 48. Such findings are required to be recorded only
for the purpose of arriving at an objective finding on the
basis of materials on records only for grant of bail and
for no other purpose. 49. We are furthermore of the opinion that the
restrictions on the power of the Court to grant bail
should not be pushed too far. If the Court, having
regard to the materials brought on record, is satisfied
 28 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

that in all probability he may not be ultimately
convicted, an order granting bail may be passed. The
satisfaction of the Court as regards his likelihood of not
committing an offence while on bail must be construed
to mean an offence under the Act and not any offence
whatsoever be it a minor or major offence. If such an
expansive meaning is given, even likelihood of
commission of an offence under Section 279 of the
Indian Penal Code may debar the Court from releasing
the accused on bail. A statute, it is trite, should not be
interpreted in such a manner as would lead to
absurdity. What would further be necessary on the part
of the Court is to see the culpability of the accused and
his involvement in the commission of an organized
crime either directly or indirectly. The Court at the time
of considering the application for grant of bail shall
consider the question from the angle as to whether he
was possessed of the requisite mens rea. Every little
omission or commission, negligence or dereliction may
not lead to a possibility of his having culpability in the
matter which is not the sine qua non for attracting the
provisions of MCOCA. A person in a given situation
may not do that which he ought to have done. The
Court may in a situation of this nature keep in mind
broad principles of law that some acts of omission and
commission on the part of a public servant may attract
disciplinary proceedings but may not attract a penal
provision. 55. The wording of Section 21(4) , in our opinion,
does not lead to the conclusion that the Court must
arrive at a positive finding that the applicant for bail
has not committed an offence under the Act. If such a
construction is placed, the court intending to grant bail
must arrive at a finding that the applicant has not
committed such an offence. In such an event, it will be
impossible for the prosecution to obtain a judgment of
conviction of the applicant. Such cannot be the
intention of the Legislature. Section 21(4) of MCOCA,
therefore, must be construed reasonably. It must be so
construed that the Court is able to maintain a delicate
balance between a judgment of acquittal and conviction
and an order granting bail much before commencement
of trial. Similarly, the Court will be required to record a
 29 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

 finding as to the possibility of his committing a crime
 after grant of bail. However, such an offence in future
 must be an offence under the Act and not any other
 offence. Since it is difficult to predict the future
 conduct of an accused, the court must necessarily
 consider this aspect of the matter having regard to the
 antecedents of the accused, his propensities and the
 nature and manner in which he is alleged to have
 committed the offence." 30. Thus, embargo under the provisions of Special Acts shall not
be an impediment in grant of bail by this Court on the ground of
incarceration of accused in custody for a long time, more particularly
in the light of various decisions of Supreme Court. 31. The Division Bench in a recent decision delivered in Criminal
Appeal No.389 of 2020 in the case of NIA Vs. Areeb Ejaz Majeed (supra) has dealt with a similar issue. The respondent therein was
prosecuted by NIA under the provisions of UAPA Act . He was
arrested on 29th November 2014. He had preferred applications for
bail which were rejected. Subsequently he was granted bail by NIA
Court. While passing the order granting bail the Special Court
proceeded on two aspects, firstly that the pace of the trial was slow
and there was likelihood that there was long time for examining the
remaining witnesses. The NIA Court concluded that since law laid
down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shaheen Welfare Association (supra) apply in favour of accused, the bail application should be
granted on the aspect of the matter. The other aspect which was
considered by the NIA Court was that the witnesses were examined
before the said Court and prima facie case is not made out. The
Court, therefore, held that even taking recourse to Section 43-D(5) of NIA Act, the accused is entitled to be released on bail. Other
decisions of the Supreme Court were placed for consideration before
 30 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

the Court. The accused was in custody for a period of six years.
About 107 witnesses were remained to be examined. The NIA Court
considered the decisions in the case of Union of India Vs. K.A.Najeeb (supra) and Shaheen Welfare Association (supra). Bail was granted
on the ground that accused is in jail for six years and also on the
basis of evidence adduced before Trial Court. Previous applications
were rejected on merits and only on the basis of evidence which was
recorded subsequently the NIA Court came to the conclusion with
regards to the prima facie case against accused when the accusations
had rendered twice by rejecting previous applications for bail. The
Division Bench accepted the contention of appellant that in view of
previous rejection of bail application, on the basis of evidence
recorded by the Court, the Court could not have granted bail on
merits. The Division Bench also observed that case of the accused on
second aspect of the matter appears to be on firm footing. In
paragraph 29 it is observed as follows : In paragraph 31 the Division Bench has observed that : 31 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

 "In cases where the accused are facing charges under
 special Acts like UAPA Act , parameters for grant of bail
 are more stringent as a consequence of which the
 undertrials in such cases remain in custody while the
 trials are pending. This is because they are accused in
 serious and heinous offences and their rights are
 required to be balanced with the rights of the society
 and citizens at large. The Courts then are required to
 perform a balancing act, so as to ensure that a golden
 mean is reached between the rights of the individual
 and those of the society at large." In paragraph 32 the Court then referred to the decision of Supreme
Court in the case of Shaheen Welfare Association (supra) wherein it
was held that long time taken by courts in disposal of the cases
would justify invoking Article 21 of Constitution of India to issue
directions to release the undertrials on bail. By analyzing the facts of
the case and considering the fact that accused was in custody for a
substantial period of time, it was held that it cannot be said that the
NIA Court committed an error in granting bail to the accused. The
Court did not distinguish the order granting bail on the basis that the
effect of rigours under Section 43-D(5) of UAPA Act is lesser than
other Special Laws. 32. In the case of Union of India Vs. K.A.Najeeb (supra), the
Supreme Court has considered the stringent conditions for grant of
bail under Section 43-D(5) of UAPA Act. In the said case the accused
was in custody for the offences under UAPA Act . In the case of The
NIA Vs. Areeb Ejaz Majeed (supra), the accused was tried for the
offences under UAPA Act . In both the cases, the accused was granted
bail by High Court and NIA Court on the ground that accused was in
 32 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc

custody without trial for long period of time, which affected his right
under Article 21 of Constitution of India. Both the orders were
confirmed by the Appellate Courts. 33. In the case of Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (supra), the
Court had directed proviso for grant of bail that benefit of direction
in clause (ii) and (iii) shall not be available to those persons who are
in the opinion of the Trial Court for the reasons to be stated in
writing likely to tamper with evidence or influence the prosecution
witnesses. In the case of Shaheen Welfare Association (supra), it was
cautioned that bail can be granted unless Court comes to conclusion
that their antecedents are such that releasing them may be harmful
to the lives of complainant, family members of complainant or
witnesses. In the case of Hussainara Khatoon, it was observed that
sympathy for undertrials who are in jail for long terms on account of
pendency of cases, has to be balanced having regard to impact of
crime. The Division Bench of this Court, in the case of NIA Vs. Areeb
Majeed has observed that in cases under Special Acts, parameters for
grant of bail are more stringent and they remain in custody. The
courts are required to perform balancing act, so as to reach a golden
mean in between the rights of an individual and those of society at
large. The court has to look into those aspects while granting bail
even on the ground that the undertrial is in prolonged custody. 34. In the light of observations of Supreme Court and this Court as
stated above, the Court has to perform balancing act. The sympathy
for undertrials who are in custody has to be balanced with
gravity/magnitude of crime, likelihood of threat to witnesses. The
analysis may be based on facts of each case. 33 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc 35. I have analyzed the factual aspects of the matter as stated
above and noted that in spite of expediting the trial vide order dated
14th October 2019 and directing the Trial Court to conclude the trial
within a period of nine months, there is no progress in the trial. The
applicant has remained in custody without charge being framed
against him. This clearly violates the right of applicant under Article
21 of Constitution of India. The applicant has been seeking bail on
the ground of prolonged custody. In the previous application for bail
it was contended that applicant is in custody for three years. This
Court had expedited trial, instead of granting bail. However, even
after two and half years thereafter, there is no progress in trial.
Prolonged custody infringes Article 21 of Constitution of India. The
Trial Court had stated that there were difficulties on account of lock
down due to pandemic of Covid-19. The situation has not improved.
It is not clear as to when the trial would commence and conclude.
There is no evidence that applicant has tried to tamper with
evidence. 36. Hence, I pass following order : 34 of 34 BA.430.2021.doc (iv) The applicant shall not leave India without prior permission of
Special Court; (v) The applicant shall deposit his passport before Special Court; (vi) The applicant shall not tamper with evidence; (vii) The applicant shall furnish details of his residence to the Trial
Court as well as Palghar Police Station. (PRAKASH D. NAIK, J.)
MST