By this notice of motion plaintiffs seek temporary injunction restraining the

 
 defendants and their servants and agents from further
 uttering/repeating/writing/publishing/telecasting any programme or news item
 thereby making defamatory allegations against the plaintiffs or tending to defame

 
 or harm the plaintiffs' business and its reputation in any manner whatsoever and
 
 also seeks a mandatory order and injunction against defendant no.1 and 2 to
 remove the Press Release or any other information/messages/articles relating to the
 
 plaintiffs and its Non-executive chairman/directors or any other officers of their
 website or any other Website or media of defendant no.1 and 2 and seeks
 injunction from displaying the Press release or any defamatory
 

 information/message/articles relating to the plaintiffs and their non-executive
 

 chairman/directors or any other officers in their website. Some of the relevant facts
 for the purpose of deciding this notice of motion are as under : Defendant no.2 is an organization formed and run by defendant no. 1. Defendant ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 4/37 NMS1086.14

 no. 3 is engaged in the business of broadcasting news channel in Hindi and

 
 regional languages who has alleged to have produced the programme "Azab MP
 Gazab Ghotala" telecasted on its 'Focus News Channel'. Defendant no. 4 is the

 
 Chairman and Managing Director and defendant no. 5 and 6 are the directors of the
 defendant no. 3. Defendant no. 7 and 8 are Group Editor in Chief of 'Focus News
 channel' and a reporter of the said channel respectively. It is the case of the

 
 plaintiffs that the plaintiffs have undertaken large number of road development
 projects, power projects, urban infrastructure projects. The net worth of the

 
 plaintiffs for the year 2014-2015 was Rs.3251.62 crores. The turn over of the
 plaintiffs for the said period is Rs.192.40 crores. The plaintiffs have work force of
 
 about 8000 employees. It is the case of the plaintiffs that Essel Group is in
 diversified business which include media/technology /entertainment
 
 packaging/infrastructure /education etc and has pioneered in number of businesses.
 It is the case of the plaintiffs that defendant no. 1 in connivance of defendant no. 2
 to 9 hatched a criminal conspiracy and in furtherance thereof the defendant no. 1
 

 was called to New Delhi to make false imputations against the plaintiffs, its
 

 officials and promoters by holding a Press Conference which was arranged by
 active involvement of defendant no.2 to 9 on 9th May 2014 at Press Club of India,

 New Delhi. 4. It is averred by the plaintiffs that on 9 th May, 2014 before the scheduled
 Press Conference, a Press Release which was already typed in English was

 released by defendant no. 1 in connivance and collusion with defendant nos. 2 to 9
 with an information that the defendant no.1 would address the press conference on
 9th May, 2014 at 3.30 pm. It is averred by the plaintiffs that defendant no. 1 does
 not know English and can only speak and write in Hindi. It is averred that the
 defendant no. 3 to 8 appears to have drafted the Press Release and were the ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 5/37 NMS1086.14

 persons behind organizing the press conference. It is averred by the plaintiffs that

 
 in the said Press Release, defendant no. 1 and 2 made very false imputations and
 defamatory allegations which are mentioned in paragraph 18 of the plaint. The said

 
 press conference was attended by journalists of various Print and Electronic Media
 including the correspondents of Zee News and Zee Business (Essel Group
 Entities). 5. It is averred by the plaintiffs that in connivance and in collusion with

 
 defendant no.1 defendant no. 3 to 9 with a criminal intent and in order to achieve

 Ghotala" on Focus TV channel
 
 their illegal motive, on 13th May, 2014 telecasted a programme "Azab MP Gazab
 which contained false, baseless and highly
 
 defamatory contents to defame and cause injury to the reputation and goodwill of
 the plaintiffs, its officials and its promoters. It is the case of the plaintiffs that the
 allegations made in the said program were similar to defamatory allegations made
 

 in the press release and press conference held on 9th May, 2014 at Press Club of
 

 India New Delhi. It is the case of the plaintiffs that during the conclusion of the
 press conference held by the defendant no. 1, the plaintiffs and its officials started
 receiving calls from other media and public at large enquiring as to why the

 plaintiffs were engaged in such kind of illegal activities and making unwarranted
 gains at the cost of the public. The staffs and officials of the plaintiffs were
 embarrassed. The morale and confidence of the employees of the group companies

 including that of the plaintiffs were diminished. 6. It is the case of the plaintiffs that during the period between 9 th May, 2014
 and 13th May, 2014 the said Focus TV Channel time and again telecasted the
 clippings of the press conference which was held by defendant no. 1 and projected
 the plaintiffs company as well as its promoters to be land grabbers and scammers ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 6/37 NMS1086.14

 which caused immense damage about the image or reputation of the plaintiffs, its

 
 promoters and non executive chairman Dr. Subhash Chandra in the eyes of the
 public at large. 7. Some time in the year 2014 plaintiffs filed a Criminal Complaint bearing
 No. 176/01 of 2014 against the defendants in the court of the Chief Metropolitan

 
 Magistrate, Patiala House, New Delhi for the offence alleged to have been
 committed under section 420 , 499 , 500 read with section 120(B) and 34 of the
 Indian Penal Code. The said complaint is pending for hearing and final disposal. 8. On 18th July, 2014 the plaintiffs filed the suit. The plaintiffs have annexed a
 
 copy of the Press Release dated 9th May, 2014 to the plaint. In para 25 of the
 plaint the plaintiffs have tabulated the allegations made in the Press Release and
 
 the factual position according to the plaintiffs which are alleged to be false and
 defamatory allegations leveled against them. Plaintiffs have also annexed copy of
 the CD which according to the plaintiffs contains the recording of the press
 

 conference dated 9th May, 2014 and also annexed copies of the transcript of the
 

 press conference in Hindi along with English translations. Plaintiffs have also
 annexed copy of the CD which according to the plaintiffs is CD of the programme
 telecast on Focus TV Channel along with transcript of the said programme in Hindi

 and its English translation. 9. Along with the summary of the allegations and the alleged correct factual

 position referred in paragraph 25 of the plaint the plaintiffs have also annexed
 some of the photographs of the building in support of the alleged factual position
 that the building on the plot which was not a school but a training centre
 belonging to the developer was in a dilapidated condition and the same was
 renovated by the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs have also annexed photographs showing ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 7/37 NMS1086.14

 the alleged present situation of the Kerwa Road in support of the plea that the same

 
 was very much in operation and still used by public even today. 10. Mr. Godbole learned counsel for the plaintiffs invited my attention to
 various allegations made in the press release and from the transcript of the

 
 programme in Hindi and English translations telecast on Focus TV Channel and
 would submit that the Focus TV News Channel has violated the established norms
 and also various provisions of the Cable Televisions Network Regulations Act

 
 1995 as prescribed by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government
 of India
 
 as a part of broadcast permission granted to the channel under
 uplinking/downlinking guidelines. Learned counsel placed reliance on sub clause (d) which provides that no programme should be carried on the channel which
 contains any thing obscene, defamatory, deliberate, false and suggestive innuendos
 and half truths. It is submitted that such Press Release and telecast on the Focus
 

 TV News was in connivance, collusion and conspiracy between defendant no.1
 

 and 2 and defendant no. 3 to 8 with an intention to cause harm, damages and injury
 to the reputation and goodwill of the business of plaintiffs and its officials. It is
 submitted that the said publication and telecast was without verifying the

 correctness of the allegations and knowing fully well that the same were false and
 were ex facie defamatory and illegal. 11. It is submitted by the learned counsel that each of the allegations made by
 the defendants were totally baseless and without proof. The learned counsel invited
 my attention to various clarifications averred in the plaint on each of the
 allegations made by the defendants and would submit that the same were false and
 defamatory. Learned counsel submits that the M.P. High Court has already fined ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 8/37 NMS1086.14

 the first defendant to the tune of Rs.5 lacs by order dated 28 th Nov. 2013 in WP No.

 
 1967 of 2006 in the writ petition filed by him against the State of MP and Ors in
 view of his habit of raising false accusations on corporate houses. 12. Learned counsel invited my attention to the material on the website of
 defendant no. 2 under heading "Lands Scam by Government in Corporate House". One of the item mentioned therein is about 'Assem Infra Project'. It is submitted
 that defendant no. 2 has downloaded the photographs of the board of directors of

 
 the plaintiffs and the profile of the plaintiffs' company from their website and
 along with such defamatory material has placed the same on the website of
 
 defendant no. 2. It is submitted that if the website of defendant no. 2 is opened, it
 reflects the defamatory allegations made by defendant nos. 1 and 2 on the said
 
 website against the plaintiffs and their board of directors. Defendant no. 2 has also
 downloaded two pages from the Website of Ministry of Corporate Affairs giving
 the Master details of the plaintiffs' company. It is submitted by the learned counsel
 

 that Plaintiffs have sufficiently described the defamatory allegations in the plaint. The documents which contain such defamatory allegations are already on record
 and forms part of the plaint which are not disputed by the defendants. Since the

 telecast has taken place all over India, even this court has territorial jurisdiction to
 entertain and try the suit. It is submitted that there is no delay in filing the suit. 13. Learned counsel submits that the defendant nos. 3 to 9 have not denied the
 telecast of programme on the Focus News Channel, though those defendants have
 only denied that the telecast was with an intention to defame the plaintiffs.
 Defendants nos. 3 to 8 have confirmed the allegations of the defendant no.1 and 2
 as correct. It is submitted that though the reporters of the plaintiffs were also
 questioned, that part was not telecasted by defendant nos. 3 to 8. It is submitted ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 9/37 NMS1086.14

 that various allegations are made against the present Chief Minister of Madhya

 
 Pradesh who was not even the Minister when the land was allotted to the plaintiffs.
 He became Chief Minister only in the month of November 2005. It is submitted

 
 that there was no proof of any favour shown to the plaintiffs by the government.
 The government had as a matter of fact rejected the allotment granted in favour of
 the plaintiffs. The committee appointed by the government after considering all

 
 the aspects in the matter had thereafter approved the said allotment. 14. In so far as various documents referred to and relied upon by defendant nos. 3 to 8 in their affidavit in reply is concerned, it is submitted that it was not the case
 of the defendants that those documents were obtained by them and scrutinized
 
 before telecasting the defamatory material on Focus News Channel. It is submitted
 that the material brought on record is ex-facie defamatory. The publisher has to
 make proper enquiry before publishing any material against a party. Defendant
 

 nos. 3 to 8 have not disclosed any source or income in the affidavit in reply as to
 

 when such information was received and from whom. It is submitted by the
 learned counsel that the telecast by the defendant nos. 3 to 8 and publication of the
 press release by the defendant nos. 1 and 2 was not bonafide and was without care

 and caution. The defendant no.1 had already had in his possession the alleged
 information before publication and ought to have taken care and ought to have
 been cautious to find out whether such alleged information was prima facie correct

 before publication and/or telecast. 15. Learned counsel placed reliance on the judgment of this court in case of Shree Maheshwar Hydel Power Corporation Ltd. vs. Chitroopa Palit & Anr. (2004) 2 BCR 137 and in particular paragraph 49, 50, 55 and 56 in support of the
 submission that the court has power to grant injunction in case of a defamatory ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 10/37 NMS1086.14

 material published by any party against the party seeking injunction. Paragraphs

 
 49, 50, 55 and 56 read thus :- Sheela Bhatta dated 3rd December, 1990, judgment of this
 Court in the case of Mrs. Betty Kapadia v. Magna Publishing
 

 Co. Ltd. dated 22nd July, 1991, and the judgment in the case of
 Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Ltd. v. M/s. Magna
 Publishing Co. Ltd., dated 21st July, 1995, it is clear that in
 India, a mere plea of justification would not be sufficient for

 denial of interim relief. The defendants, apart from taking a
 plea of justification will have to show that the statements were
 made bona fide and were in public interest, and that the
 defendants had taken reasonable precaution to ascertain the
 truth, and that the statements were based on sufficient material

 which could be tested for its veracity. Therefore, in India, the
 Court is very much entitled to scrutinise the material tendered
 by the defendants so as to test its veracity and to find out
 whether the said statements were made bona fide and that
 whether they were in public interest. Therefore, in India, even
 at the interlocutory stage, the Court is very much entitled to
 look into the material produced by the defendants for the plea
 of justification, so as to test its veracity with regard to the ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 11/37 NMS1086.14

 allegations, alleged to be defamatory. 50. In the instant case, as has been pointed out by the learned
 Counsel for the Appellant Company, the Defendants have used

 
 five highly defamatory expressions in their Press-Note viz.
 connivance, conspiracy, loot of public money, syphoning off
 funds and unleashing senseless terror etc. The above
 expressions would totally damage the credibility and

 
 reputation of the Appellant Company and in fact would
 jeopardise the entire Maheshwar Hydro-Electric Project and
 would in fact prevent the financial institutions from further
 advancing any loan or even granting any facility to the

 
 Appellant Company, whereby if the said project does not take
 off, the same will be very much against public interests,
 
 affecting the people of Madhya Pradesh, who are in the dire
 need of power. Because of such defamatory statements of the
 Defendants, not only the Appellant Company but also the very
 
 project which has been conceived for the benefit of the people
 of the Madhya Pradesh would get completely affected. The
 material sought to be relied upon by Mr. Desai (the learned
 Counsel for the Respondents) would, at the most, indicate that
 

 the Appellant Company has committed certain defaults in
 repayment of loans in time and/or there is delay on the part of
 

 the Appellant Company in recovering certain amounts given to
 other parties, but that cannot justify the use of defamatory
 statements. 55. As pointed out hereinabove, the learned Judge of the
 Bombay City Civil Court has ignored the settled principle of
 law in India, mis-applied the principle of law in the sense,
 merely on the basis of a plea of justification taken by the
 Defendants, the Plaintiffs ought to be denied the interim

 injunction. The position of law as per the above principle is
 prevalent in England. However, in India, the settled principle
 of law is that a mere plea of justification by itself would not be
 adequate, but it should be supported by sufficient material
 subject to scrutiny by the Court for its veracity, and that the
 statement made should be bona fide and should be made in the
 larger public interest and that the Defendants had taken
 reasonable precaution of ascertaining the truth. Kvm 12/37 NMS1086.14 56. In fact, the learned Judge of the Bombay City Civil Court,

 
 while declining the interim relief has observed that the
 Defendants have prima facie shown justification though not of

 
 each colourable term in their publication. The learned Judge
 has also observed that the facts of their publication may smack
 of distaste and prejudice, which it would do well for an
 organisation of repute to refrain from. That is to say the

 
 learned Judge has held that the Defendants have made a
 statement which cannot be fully justified and they ought to
 have refrained from making such a statement. If that be so, the
 learned Judge of the Bombay City Civil Court ought to have
 granted injunction in favour of the Appellant Company, and by

 
 not granting the said injunction, after the above conclusions,
 the learned Judge of the Bombay City Civil Court has acted
 
 rather arbitrarily and capriciously. 16. Mr.Chinoy learned senior counsel for defendant nos. 3 to 8 invited my
 attention to various paragraphs of the plaint and in particular paragraphs 1 to 25 of
 the plaint and submits that except alleging the defamatory material in the tabular
 

 statement prepared in paragraph 25 of the plaint, plaintiffs have not averred and/or
 

 disclosed which part of the telecast or statement was defamatory. It is submitted
 that a party who files a suit for defamation has to give details and particulars of
 such defamatory articles and which part and in what manner the same would be

 defamatory to the plaintiffs. It is submitted that the plaintiffs have made their
 allegations under different topics in the tabulated form but not particularized any of
 the defamatory allegations. 17. Learned senior counsel submits that though this issue is specifically raised
 by defendant nos. 3 to 8 in the affidavit in reply, the plaintiffs have not chosen to
 seek amendment to the plaint and to give details and particulars of the defamatory
 allegations. It is submitted by the learned senior counsel that even otherwise each ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 13/37 NMS1086.14

 and every allegations tabulated in paragraph 25 of the plaint are false. It is

 
 submitted that since no details and particulars are furnished in the suit for
 defamation, suit does not disclose any cause of action. No reliefs of any nature

 
 whatsoever can be granted by this court at this stage. 18. Learned senior counsel placed reliance on the judgment of Supreme Court in

 
 case of M.J.Zakharia Sait vs. T.M.Mohammed and others (1990) 3 SCC 396 and
 in particular paragraphs 30 and 31 and also paragraph 172 of the Halsbury's Laws
 of England, Vol. 28 which read thus :- Particulars must be given of the facts and matters on which the
 

 plaintiff relies in support of any secondary or extended
 

 defamatory meaning which it is decided to plead. These
 special facts or matters may be extrinsic to the words used or
 there may be some special meaning of the words themselves.
 The plaintiff should plead that particular words bore the

 innuendo meaning. Paragraph 172 of the Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol-28. Paragraph 172
 is extracted as under :- 19. Learned senior counsel also placed reliance on the judgment of Calcutta high

 
 Court in case of W.Hay and others vs. Aswini Kumar Samanta AIR 1958
 Calcutta 269 and in particular paragraphs 11 and submits that since no details and
 particulars of the alleged defamatory material is furnished by the plaintiffs in the

 
 plaint, it does not disclose any cause of action and thus plaint itself is liable to be
 
 rejected. Paragraphs 11 of the said judgment read thus :- Where, however, the defamatory sense is not apparent on the
 face of the words, the defamatory meaning, or as it is
 technically known in law, the "innuendo" must also be set out
 

 and set out in clear and specific terms. These are universally
 

 accepted propositions. Where again the offending words would
 be defamatory only in the particular context, in which they
 were used, uttered or published, it seems to us that it is
 necessary also to set out, except where, as in England, the law

 is or has been made expressly otherwise, the offending context
 (Colloquium) in the plaint and to state or aver further that this
 context or the circumstances, constituting the same, were
 known to the persons, to whom the words were published, or,
 at least, that they understood the words in the defamatory

 sense. In the absence of these necessary averments, the plaint
 would be liable to be rejected on the ground that it does not
 disclose any cause of action. 20. Mr.Chinoy learned senior counsel also placed reliance on a paragraph from
 the Halsbury on 'Libel and Slander' and in particular paragraph 172 in support of
 the submission that if the plaintiffs have alleged that the defendants have published ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 16/37 NMS1086.14

 and/or telecasted any defamatory article, it is duty of the plaintiffs to be very

 
 specific in his allegations to enable the defendants to give response to such
 allegations which would be in compliance with principles of natural justice. It is

 
 submitted that material germane to the issue has to be considered. If the material is
 totally irrelevant, it can be ignored. The detailed investigation and scrutiny of such
 material can be carried out at the stage of trial. It is submitted that the topics

 
 tabulated in paragraph 25 of the plaint are not such defamatory statements which
 would disclose any cause of action against the defendants. It is submitted that if

 
 there is any justification available on record to decide prima facie that the articles
 and/or telecast was justified, no injunction can be granted against the defendants. It is submitted that there cannot be any trial at the interim stage. 21. Mr.Chinoy learned senior counsel submits that the material on record
 produced by the defendants even otherwise would indicate that in so far as
 

 allotment of land at Bhopal is concerned, the said allotment was made to the
 

 plaintiffs at thrown away price. The said allotment was cancelled and was
 surprisingly restored subsequently with waiver of interest. Though under the terms
 of allotment, the plaintiffs were supposed to complete the work within two years

 from 29th September, 2008, the work has not been started at all. My attention is
 invited to the averments made at page 11 of the plaint which discloses that the said
 project is closed due to financial reasons. 22. Learned senior counsel submits that the defendant nos. 3 to 8 have verified
 and scrutinized the material from the website of defendant nos. 1 and 2. None of
 the documents placed on the website of defendant nos. 1 and 2 have been disputed
 by the plaintiffs. Kvm 17/37 NMS1086.14 23. Learned senior counsel invited my attention to e-mail dated 2 nd May 2014

 
 from defendant no.3 to the plaintiffs summarizing the allegations made by the
 residents of Madhya Pradesh against the plaintiffs and required the version of the

 
 plaintiffs over those allegations made by the residents of the Madhya Pradesh. The
 defendant no.3 requested the plaintiffs to give them time for television interview
 over those allegations as early as it could be. It is submitted that there was no

 
 denial to the contents of the said e-mail. The plaintiffs also did not come forward
 to give their version over the allegations made by the residents of the Madhya

 
 Pradesh and though invited to spare some time for television interview over those
 allegations, plaintiffs did not bother to reply to the said e-mail or to agree for
 
 television interview for expressing their version over the allegations made by the
 residents of Madhya Pradesh. 24. It is submitted by the learned senior counsel that the defendants nos. 3 to 8
 

 have not only denied the allegations of the plaintiffs that the telecast on Foucs
 

 News Channel by defendants nos. 3 to 8 against the plaintiffs were defamatory in
 any manner whatsoever but have justified the same which justification is shown
 more than prima facie and the material produced is more than adequate. 25. In so far as the loan applied by the plaintiffs on the plot of land allotted to the
 plaintiffs at the thrown away price is concerned, it is submitted that whether such

 loan was ultimately received or not by the plaintiffs is not relevant. The plaintiffs
 have not denied that the plot of land which was obtained by the plaintiffs from the
 government for the sum of Rs.3.49 crores, on that plot of land, the plaintiffs have
 applied for loan of Rs.17 crores. It is submitted that the plaintiffs have not
 explained in rejoinder as to why the plaintiffs did not avail of the opportunity to ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 18/37 NMS1086.14

 offer their version over the allegations made by the residents of Madhya Pradesh

 
 though defendant no.3 had called upon the plaintiffs to do so. 26. Mr.Chinoy learned senior counsel distinguished the judgment of the Learned
 Single Judge of this court in case of Shree Maheshwar Hydel Power Corporation
 Ltd. (supra) and submits that the judgment of Division Bench of this court in case

 
 of Dr.Yashwant Trivedi (supra) was though referred in the said judgment of the
 Learned Single Judge, the views taken by the Learned Single Judge are contrary to

 
 the views taken by the Division Bench. The said judgment of the Division Bench
 is not binding on this court. Paragraph (2) of the said judgment reads thus :- 27. It is submitted by the learned senior counsel that once the defendants have
 justified or seek to justify the allegations made by them against the plaintiffs which
 according to the plaintiffs are defamatory, this court cannot grant injunction unless
 court comes to the conclusion that the allegations are per se defamatory and are
 required to be stopped from further publication. Kvm 19/37 NMS1086.14 28. Mr.Hakani learned counsel for the defendant nos.1 and 2 submits that the

 
 defendant nos. 1 and 2 had obtained copies of various documents from various
 departments of the government under the provisions of Right to Information Act and scrutinized and verified the same. The press release was based on the facts
 verified from the documents obtained under the provisions of the Right to
 Information Act . Mr.Hakani learned counsel adopted the submission made by

 
 Mr.Chinoy, learned senior counsel appearing for defendant nos. 3 to 8. It is
 submitted that no part of the press release published by the defendant nos. 1 to 2 or

 
 no part of the material on the website of defendants no.2 is defamatory as alleged
 by the plaintiffs. No injunction thus shall be granted by this court against those
 
 defendants. 29. Mr.Hakani, learned counsel placed reliance on judgment of this court in case Abdul Waheb Galahdri vs. Indian Express Newspaper (Bombay) Limited (1994)
 

 BCR 1(41) and submits that in view of the justification sought to be given by the
 

 defendants, no injunction can be granted by this court. It is submitted that the
 earlier Bench of the division bench in case of Dr.Yashwant Trivedi (supra) has
 been relied upon and followed by the Single Judge in the case of Abdul Waheb

 Galahdri (supra). Reliance is placed on paragraphs 23 and 24 of the said
 judgment which read thus :- Kvm 20/37 NMS1086.14

 However, it needs to be clarified that the Court as such has not
 granted any ad-interim relief, but certain statement was made

 
 on behalf of the defendants themselves before the Court that
 they will not publish any articles concerning the plaintiff in

 
 their newspaper. However today the learned counsel for the
 defendants is totally unwilling and in opposition in making
 such statement. In view of this, there is no question of granting
 any stay to the order hereinabove. At the request of plaintiff's

 
 advocate issuance of certified copy is expedited. 30. Mr.Godbole, learned counsel for the plaintiffs in rejoinder submits that the
 defendants nos. 1 and 2 have admitted that a press conference was held on 9 th May

 
 2014. Defendant no.3 has not denied that there was telecast of program on Focus
 
 News Channel as its own programme. The defendant no.3 has not produced the
 correct CD for perusal of this court. It is submitted that it was not the case of the
 
 defendant no.3 that prior to the 3 rd August, 2014, defendant no.2 had provided any
 information to the defendants no.3 nor has stated that such information and/or
 documents were downloaded from the website of defendant no.2. 31. It is submitted by the learned counsel that what has been pleaded in the
 plaint is more than sufficient. Reliance is placed on Order 7 rule 14 of the Code of

 Civil Procedure , order 6 rules 2, 4 and 10 and it is submitted that after 2002
 amendment in the Civil Procedure Code, 1908, there was drastic amendment in the
 provisions for filing documents and pleadings. Plaintiffs are required to file all the
 documents. It is submitted that the entire press report and transcript with CD has

 been annexed. The pleadings clearly indicate that the contents of the press release
 and the telecast by defendant no.3 was per se defamatory which can be made out
 from the plain reading of the document itself. The defendants were not taken by
 surprise nor any such element of alleged surprise has been taken as a defence. It is
 submitted that each and every argument of the defendants is hyper technical and ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 21/37 NMS1086.14

 not the argument of substance. On the issue as to what should be nature of

 
 leadings in this type of suits, learned counsel placed reliance on the judgment of
 Supreme Court in case of M/s.Ganesh Trading Co. vs. Moji Ram (1978) 2 SCC

 
 91 (paragraphs 2, 5 and 10) and in case of Virendra Kashinath Ravat and another
 vs. Vinayak N.Joshi and others (1999) 1 SCC 47 (paragraphs 15 to 19). It is
 submitted that the plaint filled by the plaintiffs contents concise facts. 32. Learned counsel also placed reliance on the judgment of Supreme court in

 
 case of Ram Sarup Gupta vs. Bishun Narain Inter College and others (1987) 2
 SCC 555 (paragraph 6) and would submit that the defendants knew the case of the
 
 plaintiffs and allowed the publication of the press release. The defendant nos. 1
 and 2 has access to the website of the plaintiffs and had copied the profile, history
 
 from the website of plaintiffs as part of the website of defendant no.2 33. Learned counsel placed reliance on the judgment of Supreme Court in case
 

 of Kumara Nand vs. Brijmohan Lal Sharma , AIR 1967 SCC 808 (paragraphs 12,
 13, 15 to 18). Learned counsel also placed reliance on the judgment of Supreme
 Court in case of M.J.Zakharia Sait vs. T.M.Mohammed and others (1990 ) 3 SCC

 396 (paragraphs 5, 6 11 to 15, 18 to 21, 23, 25, 26 and 30 to 33) in support of the
 submission that if the full text of the article is annexed to the plaint, it is not
 necessary to furnish particulars of each and every defamatory allegations out of the

 said full text in the plaint. It is submitted that in this case there was a direct
 defamation on the part of the defendants and there was no innuendo. It is
 submitted that the allegations of defamation made against the plaintiffs, directors
 of the plaintiffs are part of the transcript annexed to the plaint to the knowledge of
 the defendants and which are pleaded and highlighted. Kvm 22/37 NMS1086.14 34. In so far as justification sought to be given by the defendant nos.3 to 8

 
 relying upon e-mail dated 2nd May, 2014 is concerned, it is submitted that the
 defendant nos. 3 to 8 have failed to show that they had any material in hand against

 
 the plaintiffs when the said e-mail was sent. It is submitted that the judgment of
 the learned single Judge in case of Shree Maheshwar Hydel Power Corporation
 Ltd. (supra) is not contrary to the judgment of the Division Bench in case of

 
 Dr.Yashwant Trivedi vs. Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. 35. Mr.Chinoy learned senior counsel submits that since the action initiated by
 the plaintiffs is in tort, allegations of defamation has to be specified. My attention
 
 is invited to paragraphs 30 to 32 of the plaint. REASONS AND CONCLUSIONS :- 36. The Supreme Court in the case of M.J. Zakharia Sait (supra) has
 approved the judgment of the division bench of the Calcutta High Court in the
 

 case of W. Hay and Ors. Vs. Aswini Kumar Samanta , reported in AIR 1958
 

 Calcutta 269 and has also quoted the Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol-28, 4 th
 edition with approval on the topic of "an action for defamation." 37. Mr.Godbole, learned counsel for the plaintiffs placed reliance on
 paragraphs 6, 11, 13, 15, 18, 21 and 25 of the said judgment and submits that the said judgment of the Supreme Court would assist the case of the plaintiffs and

 not the defendants. A perusal of the judgment of the Supreme Court in the
 aforementioned judgment indicates that the Supreme Court has considered an
 appeal arising out of an order passed by the High Court of Kerala in an Election
 Petition. The Supreme Court also considered the mandatory provisions of Section
 83(1) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The Supreme Court has also ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 23/37 NMS1086.14

 adverted to various earlier judgments of the Supreme Court in the said

 
 judgment . 38. In Halsbury's Laws of England, emphasis is laid that in an action for
 defamation, the actual words complained of and not merely their substance, must
 be set out verbatim in the statement of claim. Where the plaintiffs complain of a

 
 book or a long article, he must specify the passages which he alleges to be
 defamatory rather than merely pleading the whole book or article. Calcutta High

 
 Court in the case of W. Hay and Ors. (supra) has held that in a libel action, the
 defamatory words must be set out in the plaint. Where the words are per se or
 
 prima facie defamatory, only the words need to be set out. Where, however, the
 defamatory sense was not apparent on the face of the words, the defamatory
 
 meaning, or the "innuendo" must also be set out in clear and specific terms. 39. A question that arises for consideration of this Court at this stage is
 

 whether the press release published by defendant nos.1 and 2 and a telecast by
 

 the defendant nos.3 to 8 on the 'Focus News Channel' were per se or prima
 facie defamatory and if so, whether in the plaint, the plaintiffs have set out

 such defamatory words or not. A question also arises for consideration of this
 Court is whether the Court may grant an injunction in favour of the plaintiffs or
 may restrain further publication in libel, though at the interlocutory stage, the
 defendants raise a plea of justification and has relied upon the evidence by which

 they might substantiate their case. 40. It is the case of the plaintiffs that the press release published by defendant
 nos.1 and 2 was false and defamatory and was published without verifying the
 truth and correctness of such allegations by the defendant nos.1 and 2 before ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 24/37 NMS1086.14

 publication. The allegations against defendant nos.3 to 8 are that those

 
 defendants also did not bother to verify the truth and correctness of such
 allegations before its telecast on the 'Focus News Channel.' 41. According to the plaintiffs, in paragraph 18, the plaintiffs have
 summarized the imputations and the allegations made in the press release by

 
 defendant nos.1 and 2 which are defamatory allegations. The allegations are
 summarized in paragraphs (A) to (M) in the plaint. 42. In paragraph 23 of the plaint, the plaintiffs have summarized allegations
 
 against defendant nos.3 to 8. In paragraph 25 of the plaint, the plaintiffs have
 tabulated the nature of allegations made by the defendants which were
 
 defamatory according to the plaintiffs and also summarized the factual position
 as against each of the allegations in the said table. 43. Supreme Court in case of M.J.Zakharia Sait (supra) has referred to the
 

 treatise of Halsbury's Laws of England on the topic 'Libel and Slander' and has
 held that if it is claimed that the words are defamatory in their natural and ordinary

 meaning and the words bear only one literal meaning which is clear and explicit, it
 is not necessary to plead the meaning in the statement of claim. However, if the
 words are reasonably capable of bearing more than one literal meaning or if the
 defamatory meaning relied on is inferential, it is desirable and may even be

 necessary to plead the defamatory meaning or meanings. Where the plaintiffs wish
 to claim that the words complained of were understood to be defamatory in a
 secondary or extended meaning by those persons having knowledge of some
 special facts or matters, such a meaning constitutes a separate cause of action and
 the same should be pleaded expressly in a separate paragraph in the statement of ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 25/37 NMS1086.14

 claim. Particulars must be given of the facts and matters on which the plaintiffs

 
 rely in support of any secondary or extended defamatory meaning which is decided
 to plead. 44. Supreme court in the said judgment has also referred to the judgment of
 Division Bench of Calcutta High Court in case of W.Hay vs.Aswini Kumar

 
 Samanta (supra). The Calcutta High Court in the said judgment held that in a libel
 action, the ordinary defamatory words must be setout in a plaint. Where the words

 
 are per se prima facie defamatory only the words need be setout. 45.
 
 Division Bench of this court in case of Dr.Yashwant Trivedi (supra) has
 held that the position of law on the law of injunction in support of libel is not
 
 different in India then what is prevailing in England. It is held that in the matter of
 granting or refusing temporary injunction it is not material that in India the judge
 has to decide both questions of law and fact unlike in England where question of
 

 law were left to the jury. It is held that the crux of the matter is that when in a
 

 liable action at the interlocutory stage, the defendants raises a plea of justification
 and mentions evidence by which he might substantiate his case, the court is

 unlikely to grant an interlocutory injunction in favour of the plaintiffs to restrain
 further publication of the alleged libel. 46. This Court in case of Abdul Waheb Galahdri vs. Indian Express

 Newspaper (Bombay) Limited (1994) 1 BCR 41 has followed the judgment of
 Division Bench in case of Dr.Yashwant Trivedi (supra) and has refused to grant
 injunction from further publication of any article concerning the plaintiffs in the
 newspaper of the defendants in that case. Kvm 26/37 NMS1086.14 47. In so far as judgment of learned single Judge in case of Shree Maheshwar

 
 Hydel Power Corporation Ltd. (supra) relied upon by Mr.Godbole, learned
 counsel for the plaintiffs is concerned, the learned single Judge of this court in the

 
 said judgment has though referred to the judgment of the Division Bench in case of
 Dr.Yashwant Trivedi (supra) has held that in India a mere plea of justification
 would not be sufficient for denial of interim relief. The defendants apart from

 
 taking a plea of justification will have to show that the statements were made
 bonafide and were in public interest and that the statements were based on

 
 sufficient material which can be tested from its veracity. The court is entitled to
 scrutinize the material tendered by the defendants so as to test its veracity and to
 
 find out whether the said statements were made bonafide and that they were in
 public interest. Even at the interlocutory stage the court is entitled to look into the
 
 material produced by the defendants for the plea of justification so as to test its
 veracity with regard to the allegations alleged to be defamatory. 48. Keeping in mind the aforesaid statement of law declared by the Supreme
 

 Court and this court, I will now consider whether in the facts of this case how far
 both the parties have satisfied the criteria laid down by the Supreme Court and this

 court on the requirement of pleading in a suit based on tort and the effect on
 justification with material sought to be pleaded by the defendants in opposition to
 the grant of relief for injunction. 49. A perusal of the averments made in the plaint indicates that the plaintiffs
 have not particularized the alleged defamatory portion from the press release and
 also the telecast. The plaintiffs have generalized the allegations of defamation in
 the plaint and has basically relied upon the entire press report and the telecast on
 the news channel. In my view in the case of the suit for libel which is in tort, ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 27/37 NMS1086.14

 plaintiffs have to specify the defamatory words from the entire article and/or press

 
 release and telecast with details and as to how such words from the material
 published/telecast, the plaintiffs were defamed. The plaintiffs cannot make any

 
 vague plea without particularizing and specifying the defamatory words out of the
 entire publication unless the words are per se or prima facie defamatory. In my
 view the plaintiffs have not been able to satisfy from the averments made in the

 
 plaint that any of the topics tabularized in the plaint would be per se or prima facie
 defamatory. A perusal of paragraph 25 of the plaint in which the plaintiffs have

 
 tabulated some of such topics do not even refer to any specific allegations against
 the defendant nos. 3 to 8. 50. A perusal of the affidavit in reply filed by the defendant nos. 3 to 8 indicates
 
 that those defendants have raised a specific plea that alleged defamatory
 words/sentences were required to be setout verbatim in the plaint failing which the
 plaint is liable to be rejected as not disclosing a cause of action. A perusal of the
 

 rejoinder and in particular paragraph 4 indicates that the only answer of the
 

 plaintiffs is that the suit discloses the cause of action and that the plaintiffs have
 setout the grounds of defamation and the defamatory sensity. The plaintiffs have

 not bothered to apply for amendment of the plaint to setout verbatim the alleged
 defamatory words in the plaint though such opportunity the plaintiffs had before
 proceeding with hearing of this notice of motion. 51. A perusal of the affidavit in reply filed by the defendant no.1 and also the
 press release published by the defendant nos. 1 and 2 indicates that in the said
 press release the defendant nos. 1 and 2 have relied upon various documents
 obtained by the defendant nos. 1 and 2 under the provisions of Right to
 Information Act in support of what is published against the plaintiffs and their ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 28/37 NMS1086.14

 office bearers. At the bottom of the said press release a note is provided by the

 
 defendant nos. 1 and 2 stating that 'all documents received under RTI on the above
 expose can be accessed on www.janadhikarmunch.com.' It is also mentioned that

 
 the 'White Paper on the serial breaches had been attached with media release'.
 Even in the 'white paper' it is specifically provided that all the supporting
 documents could be accessed on the website of the defendant no.2. It is also

 
 mentioned that the request for additional information could be made to the
 defendant no.1 at his office address mentioned therein and at mobile number or

 
 office number including e-mail at the e-mail ID mentioned therein. 52.
 
 It is the case of the defendant nos. 1 and 2 in the affidavit in reply that each
 and every statement made in the press release is based on their honest belief and on
 
 the facts verified from the documents which they had received under the provisions
 of Right to Information Act . The defendant no.1 had approached various
 government bodies and agencies and prima facie violations were emerging on the
 

 basis of the findings from documents procured under RTI. It is also the case of the
 

 defendant no.1 that there were about 8 journalist from different channel of Zee
 Media present in the said press conference to counter and embarrass the defendant

 no.1 and has repeatedly made attempts not to allow other media persons to ask him
 questions. The officials of the plaintiffs were also present at the press conference
 venue and distributed their statement to the attending journalists from various
 media houses. A perusal of the rejoinder on this issue indicates that except bare

 denial, the plaintiffs have not raised any specific plea. The defendant no.1 also has
 averred that copy of the website at Ex.F is the copy of the introduction of the
 plaintiffs from its website and copies of other documents at page 130 and 131 are
 the copies of the website of Ministry of Corporate Affairs which information is in
 public domain and cannot be defamatory. It is also the case of the defendant no.1 ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 29/37 NMS1086.14

 that he had approached the media house including Zee TV prior to holding press

 
 conference in respect of the said issue amongst other issues. Reporter of the
 plaintiffs also was present and participated. 53. A perusal of the text of the news telecast on the Focus News Channel by the
 defendant no. 3 which is annexed by the plaintiffs to the plaint itself indicates that

 
 various professionals were interviewed by defendant no. 3 on 13.5.2014 such as
 Mr. Buch, an Environment Expert, Mr. Ajay Dubey, Activist/Lawyer, Mr.Babulal

 
 Gaur Ex Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Mr. Manak Agarwal, Vice President,
 Madhya Pradesh Congress. A perusal of the email annexed to the affidavit in reply
 
 of defendant no. 3 indicates that defendant no. 3 had brought to the knowledge of
 the plaintiffs about the allegations made by residents of Madhya Pradesh alleging
 
 violation of basic land allotment norms/rules against the plaintiffs company and
 more particularly Essel Infraaproject. It was also brought to the notice of the
 plaintiffs that the allegation of the residents was that the land allotment to the
 

 plaintiffs company in different areas of Madhya Pradesh was major threat to wild
 

 life and water resources of country and those who were raising voice against the
 plaintiffs regarding their upcoming projects, were being threatened by the officials

 of Zee and Essel. By the said email the defendant no. 3 informed the plaintiffs
 that as a responsible news network Focus TV required the version of the plaintiffs
 over allegations made by the residents of Madhya Pradesh and requested the
 plaintiffs to give them time for television interview over those allegations as early

 as the plaintiffs could. The plaintiffs however, did not come for television
 interview nor made any comments over those allegations. A perusal of the
 rejoinder on this issue indicates that except bare denial, there is no positive
 explanation of the plaintiffs on this issue. Kvm 30/37 NMS1086.14 54. In the affidavit in reply, defendant no. 3 to 8 and in particular in paragraph

 
 15, the defendant no. 3 has contended that the allegations made in column 2 of the
 tabular statement in para 25 of the plaint, does not record any words/statements

 
 made in the telecast or programme, the plaintiffs have not placed the facts in their
 correct perspective and have suppressed material facts and documents. A perusal of
 the said paragraph indicates that defendant no.3 has relied upon several documents

 
 which are annexed as Exh. 2 to Exh. 26A and has highlighted the documents which
 are mentioned as RTI documents and has contended that on the bare perusal of the

 
 said documents, it was clear that it was the duty of defendant no. 3 to report the
 news in the public interest with the object/intent of informing the general public at
 
 large about the process of land allotment and also to create a public opinion for
 adoption of a fair and transparent process in allotment of land by the Government
 
 and was protected by qualified privilege. Defendant no. 3 summarized the main
 features of the programme telecasted in the said paragraph. It is also the case of
 the defendant no. 3 that they made several attempts to obtain the response of the
 

 plaintiffs with regard to the subject matter of news report so as to ensure
 

 objectivity but plaintiffs did not respond to the request of defendant no. 3. The
 defendant no. 3 also included the contents of the response of the plaintiffs while

 broadcasting the news report/programme which was distributed/circulated by the
 plaintiffs at the press conference. It is submitted by the defendant no. 3 that in the
 said TV news programme the facts stated were accurate and true and were clearly
 borne out by the documents and facts set out therein. It is contended that the

 comments made in the said TV programme were fair comments on the matter of
 public interest. 55. It is submitted by the defendant no. 3 that the news report was in the form of
 questionnaire/opinion and was based inter alia on the press release of defendant no. Kvm 31/37 NMS1086.14

 1 and 2 which was substantially verified by the documents annexed to the affidavit

 
 in reply, opinions, and interviews of eminent persons and also by independent
 research carried out by defendant no. 3. The defendant no.3 had taken steps to

 
 verify the authenticity of the facts stated in the news report and only thereafter had
 telecasted the same on the Focus News Channel. 56. A perusal of the rejoinder filed by plaintiffs in reply to the defendant no. 3 to
 8, clearly indicates that the plaintiffs have not disputed any of the documents which

 
 were obtained by the defendant no. 1 and 2 under the provisions of Right to
 Information Act . Those documents were comprising of correspondence exchanged
 
 between the plaintiffs and various Government departments, the allotments made
 in favour of the plaintiffs etc. In the rejoinder, the plaintiffs have also not denied
 
 the allotment of various plots to the plaintiffs by the Government, except vaguely
 denying the allegations made by the defendant no. 3. Based on such documents,
 the plaintiffs have not made any positive statements or have not tendered any
 

 explanation in respect of such documents. Mr. Chinoy learned senior counsel
 

 appearing for the defendant no. 3 to 8 submits that the defendant no. 3 can even at
 this stage prima facie prove the correctness of the contents of the news telecast on

 the basis of the documents annexed to the affidavit in reply which were verified by
 the defendant no. 3 before telecast. At this stage the court can consider the
 substance in those allegations based on one of the ex facie case of favour alleged
 to have been shown by the Madhya Pradesh Government to the plaintiffs. In

 support of this submission, learned senior counsel invited my attention to some of
 the documents annexed to the affidavit in reply filed by defendant no. 3 which
 documents are not disputed by the plaintiffs highlighted hereinafter. 57. Some time in the year 2005, M/s. PAN India Paryatan Limited (Original ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 32/37 NMS1086.14

 name of the plaintiff) had approached the Chief Minister of the Madhya Pradesh

 
 and had sought allotment of 60 acres of Government land for establishment of a
 water park/amusement park. At a meeting of the Reservation Committee held on

 
 16th June, 2005, it was decided to reserve 58.23 lake front land registered in the
 name of State Dairy Veterinary Department. It was provided that the reservation
 order would be issued on payment of 10% of the value of the land to the Collector. The said meeting was held on 16th June, 2005. On 6th September, 2005, the
 Chairman of the Essel Group had a meeting with the Chief Minister of Madhya

 
 Pradesh regarding the allotment and sought a 90 years lease at 50% of the market
 value. In the month of October, 2005, the Madhya Pradesh Government issued a
 
 reservation/allotment order for the said land and provided that the work shall be
 started within one year of getting possession of the land. 58. On 11th November, 2005, the Collector informed the Principal Secretary that
 the Director, Veterinary Services had objected to the allotment on the ground that if
 

 the land was taken away, then there would be a shortage of suitable land for the
 

 production of dry green fodder and would have an adverse impact on the health of
 animals. It was mentioned that the premium/value of the land at the rate of 112 per

 sq. ft. was at Rs.24.73 Crores and annual rent @ 7.5% would be Rs.1.86 Crores. It
 was also mentioned that at the minimum rent of Rs.60/- per sq. ft., the value of the
 land would be at Rs.13.25 Crores and the annual rent at the rate of 7.5% thereof
 would be at Rs.99.38 lacs. If he value was taken as 3.89 Crores, the annual rent at

 7.5% would be Rs.29.24 lacs. 59. On 28th March, 2006, the said land was allotted at Rs.3.89 Crores with the
 annual rental at 7.5% of Rs.29.24 lacs to the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs were
 required to deposit the premium amount and annual lease rent within six months. Kvm 33/37 NMS1086.14

 On 7th September, 2007, the plaintiffs deposited Rs.40 lacs only and did not deposit

 
 the balance amount. The Revenue department of the Madhya Pradesh Government
 informed the Collector that as the amount had not been deposited as required, the

 
 allocation order dated 28th March, 2006 stood automatically cancelled. On 26 th
 October, 2007, the plaintiffs forwarded cheque for Rs.3,49,85,870/- towards the
 balance premium amount to the Government. The said cheque however, was

 
 returned by the Government to the plaintiffs on 26 th November, 2007. In the
 meeting of the Project Clearance and Implementation Board under the

 
 Chairmanship of Chief Secretary on 14th December, 2007, it was decided to
 continue /reallot the said land to the plaintiffs and to accept the balance premium
 
 amount of Rs.3,49,85,780/-. On 3rd January, 2008 the Madhya Pradesh Government
 decided to extend time for deposit of amount till 31 st January, 2008 and directed
 
 that interest at the rate of 15% should not be charged to the plaintiffs. 60. On 29th September, 2008, the agreement for transfer of the land at the
 

 premium of Rs.3.90 Crores and annual lease rental of Rs.29.25 lacs. for 30 years,
 

 with a right of renewal for a further period of 30 years was executed between
 plaintiffs and MP Government. In the said agreement it was provided that plaintiffs

 shall start the work within six months and shall complete the same within two
 years. It is the case of defendant no. 3 that till today no work has commenced on
 the said plot which allegations are not disputed by the plaintiffs. It is the case of
 the plaintiffs that on 8th July, 2009 the plaintiffs had created an equitable mortgage

 with the State Bank of India by deposit of title deeds of the said land allotted to the
 plaintiffs by the MP Government bearing Khasra Nos. 8, 11 to 19, 22, 23 and 33,
 area 50.70 acres as a security of grant of loan of Rs.17.34 Crores. The plaintiffs
 also executed a declaration to that effect. On 12 th December, 2013 the plaintiffs
 had applied to the Collector, Bhopal for permission to take loan against mortgage ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 34/37 NMS1086.14

 of the said land allotted by the Government. 61. A perusal of the rejoinder filed by the plaintiffs in so far as allotment of the

 
 land and the mortgage alleged to have been created in respect of the said land by
 the plaintiffs for obtaining loan of Rs.17.34 Crores is concerned, the plaintiffs
 have annexed a copy of the letter addressed by State Bank of India dated 8 th July,

 
 2014 in support of their submission that no loan was disbursed to the plaintiffs. A
 perusal of the record prima facie indicates that (i) the plaintiffs have not denied

 
 about the contents of all these documents showing the application for allotment of
 land by the plaintiffs, (ii) objection raised by the Director, Veterinary Services to
 
 the allotment of land to the plaintiffs, (iii) though the valuation of the plot was at
 much higher amount determined by the officers of the Government, allotment of
 
 the land to the plaintiffs at a cheaper rate, (iv) non payment of the premium within
 time, (v) cancellation of allotment by the Government, re-allotment of the land
 without charging any interest, (vi) application made by the plaintiffs for
 

 mortgaging the said property allotted at the rate of Rs.3.90 Crores for loan amount
 

 of Rs.17.34 Crores and sanction of loan for Rs.17.34 crores (vii) though work
 required to be commenced within one year of the date of the allotment which was

 in the year 2006-07, work had not even commenced till today. 62. A perusal of the letter dated 8th July, 2014 which is annexed by the plaintiffs
 to rejoinder dated 16th October, 2014 itself indicates that the plaintiffs were

 sanctioned term loan of Rs.17.34 Crores as far back as on 27 th February, 2009 for
 setting up a family recreation center on the said plot of land. The said term loan
 however, was not disbursed as NOC from Collector of Bhopal to mortgage of the
 lease land was not obtained by the plaintiffs company. No charge on the land was
 created by way of mortgage. In the meanwhile the sanction lapsed and the charge ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 35/37 NMS1086.14

 created with ROC was satisfied on 4 th October, 2011. A perusal of the said letter

 
 indicates that the said letter is now obtained in the month of July, 2014 after
 publication of the Press release and telecast of the alleged defamatory material on

 
 the news channel against the plaintiffs. It is thus not in dispute that the land which
 is allotted to the plaintiffs at the premium of Rs.3.90 Crores in the year 2008-09,
 the plaintiffs had been sanctioned loan of Rs.17.34 Crores as far back as on 27 th

 
 February, 2009 against equitable mortgage. The plaintiffs have not denied all these
 documents or the contents thereof. 63. Defendant no. 3 has also placed reliance on MOU dated 22 nd December,
 
 2012 between the MP Trade and Investment Facilitation Corporation and the
 plaintiffs for allotment of 5000 acres of land at Morena Gwalior District for setting
 
 up a Knowledge based Industry (Knowledge City). Based on the above referred
 documents, which are not disputed by the plaintiffs, learned senior counsel submits
 that even if this court takes these documents into consideration at this stage,
 

 defendant no. 3 has made out a prima facie case that the defendant no. 3 had
 

 verified these facts before telecast of interview/news on Focus News Channel. It is
 submitted that he defendant no. 3 has justified the correctness of their publication

 with the documents in hand. 64. This court in case of Indian Express Newspapers and another Vs. M/s.
 Magna Publishing Company Limited and Ors. in Notice of Motion No. 1995 of

 1995 in suit no. 2525 of 1995 delivered on 21st July, 1995 has held that the
 defamatory article can be justified provided it is in the public interest and
 defendant has taken reasonable precaution of ascertaining the truth. The defendants
 must therefore, show on material available that a reasonable person could come to
 the conclusion that the comments were not mala fide. After considering the ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 36/37 NMS1086.14

 aforesaid judgment of this court in case of Indian Express Newspapers and

 
 another (supra) the learned single Judge of this court in case of Shree Maheshwar
 Hydel Power Corporation Limited has held that the defendants apart from taking

 
 a plea of justification will have to show that the statements were made bonafide
 and were in public interest and that the defendants had taken reasonable precaution
 to ascertain the truth and that the statements were based on sufficient material

 
 which could be tested for its veracity. In India the court is entitled to scrutinize
 the material tendered by the defendants so as to test its veracity and to find out

 
 whether the said statements were made bona fide and that whether they were in
 public interest. 65. The Division Bench of this court in the case of Dr. Jaswant Trivedi (supra),
 
 has held that in a libel action at the interlocutory stage if the defendant raises a plea
 of justification and mentions evidence by which he might substantiate his case, the
 court is unlikely to grant any interlocutory injunction in favour of the plaintiffs to
 

 restrain further publication of the alleged libel. The said judgment of the Division
 

 Bench of this court is binding on this court and is squarely applicable to the facts
 of this case. On the basis of documents produced on record which are not
 disputed by the plaintiffs, in my prima facie view, the submissions of the

 defendants that the publication and telecast respectively was issued after verifying
 the documents and that the same was bona fide and in public interest cannot be
 brushed aside and deserves acceptance. 66. In so far as reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in case of M.J.
 Zakharaia Sait (supra) by Mr. Godbole learned counsel for the plaintiffs is
 concerned, the same would assist the defendants and not the plaintiffs. In so far as
 judgments relied upon by Mr. Godbole on the issue of pleadings under the
 provision of Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 are concerned, even those judgments ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 ::: Kvm 37/37 NMS1086.14

 would not assist the plaintiffs. Though the plaintiffs had an opportunity to seek

 
 amendment to the plaint and to particularize the defamatory words, if any, from
 the press release and from the telecast, plaintiffs did not choose to seek

 
 amendment to the plaint. 67. Perusal of the record indicates that though the plaintiffs were given an

 
 opportunity by the defendants to express their views and/or fix time for interview,
 the plaintiffs did not avail of that opportunity. Whatever objections/views of the

 
 plaintiffs were placed during the time of press release, the same were prima facie
 considered by the defendant nos. 3 to 8 at the time of telecast on the Focus News
 
 Channel. In so far as submission of Godbole, learned counsel for plaintiffs that
 defendant nos.1 and 2 are in habit of making false allegations, or filing false
 
 proceedings and as a result thereof were directed to pay cost of Rs. 5 lacs by the
 MP High Court is concerned, it is the case of the defendant nos. 1 and 2 that they
 have already explained in the affidavit in reply as to why the said cost was imposed
 

 upon the defendant no. 1 by the MP High Court. Be that as it may, merely on the
 

 basis of the said order passed by MP High Court in the said public interest
 litigation filed by the defendant no. 1, it cannot be concluded in this proceedings

 that the press release issued by defendant nos. 1 and 2 cannot be considered to
 have been issued bona fide or that the same was not in public interest. 68. In my view the Notice of Motion is devoid of merits and is accordingly

 dismissed. No order as to costs. [R.D. DHANUKA, J.] ::: Downloaded on - 01/12/2014 23:47:41 :::