Counsel for the applicant submits that as he noted
down incorrect date of listing of this matter on the previous
date, he did not appear when the matter was called out
earlier. He, therefore, prays that the order passed today
dismissing the application for non-prosecution may be
recalled and the matter may kindly be heard on merits.
Counsel for the State has no objection in this behalf. In view of the above, the order dismissing the
application for non-prosecution is recalled. Application is
restored to the file to its original number and heard 2 forthwith, by consent. Heard counsel for the parties. This bail application has been filed by the applicant,
who has been arrested on 1.12.2014 and is in Jail in
connection with Crime No.737/2013 registered with Police
Station - Civil Lines Rewa - commonly known as
VYAPAM Examination Scam cases - for the offence
punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 109 and 120-B of IPC and also under Section 3 / 4 of the M.P.
Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution
is one of an "impersonator". The applicant through
middleman Narendra Chourasia appeared in place of
beneficiary Dipak Gautam to commit unfair means during
the examination conducted by VYAPAM. After the arrest
of applicant, the beneficiary and middleman have also been
arrested. It is, fairly, stated by the learned counsel for the State,
on instructions, that custodial interrogation of the applicant
is no more required. Charge-sheet has also been filed
against the applicant. Further, the investigation against the
applicant is complete in all respects as of now and,
therefore, the presence of applicant is no more required. In
that sense, the link between the accused persons is already 3 complete. Further, the applicant is not involved in any
other crime of similar type. Besides, the applicant through
counsel undertakes to appear before the Investigating
Officer as and when called for further investigation
including against him as also to punctually appear before
the trial Court to ensure early disposal of the criminal trial. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the
matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the applicant
on following strict conditions:- Banarash (U.P.) once a week on every
 Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 4 noon unless required to attend the office
 of the Investigating Officer at Bhopal on
 that day; and
 (4) The applicant will deposit his passport, if
 available, with the Investigating Agency,
 else file affidavit in this Court declaring
 that the applicant does not have any
 passport of any country. This compliance
 will be condition precedent for release on
 bail. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.