itself, by allowing the application filed by PW 5

 Anima Kumari, the Investigating Officer, evidence of four

 prosecution witnesses viz. PW 1 Mrs. M. - mother of the victim

 female child, PW2 - Ms. S. the victim female child, P.W. 3 Dr.

 Shaila Kunwar - the Medical Officer, forbisganj Sub-Divisional
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 9/84 Hospital and P.W. 4 Mr. B, the grandfather of the victim female

 child came to be recorded. Then on 24.01.2022 evidence of

 both the Investigators i.e. PW 5 Anima Kumari Police Sub-

 Inspector and PW 6 Rita Kumari, Station House Officer of

 Mahila Police Station, Araria, was recorded. Immediately

 thereafter PW 5 Anima Kumari, the Investigating Officer,

 submitted an application for deciding the case on the very same

 day. By allowing that application partly on 22.01.2022 itself,

 statement of the accused was recorded under Section 313 of the

 Cr.P.C. The accused had set up a plea of alibi. He alleged false

 implication and prayed for the opportunity to adduce defence

 evidence. Learned Trial Court then fixed the case for defence

 evidence on 25.01.2022. (g). By rejecting the application for grant of

 adjournment of one week for adducing the defence evidence, on

 25.01.2022, the defence evidence came to be closed by the

 learned Trial Court. Arguments of both sides were heard finally

 and the accused came to be convicted as indicated in the

 opening para of this judgment on 25.01.2022 itself. The case

 was then adjourned for hearing the accused on quantum of

 sentence to 27.01.2022 and on that day after hearing, the

 accused came to be sentenced to death penalty as indicated in
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 10/84 the opening para of this judgment. 4. We heard Mr. Singh the learned Senior Advocate

 appearing for the appellant/accused. He made the following

 submissions. By taking us through the order sheets of the

 proceedings of the Special POCSO Case No. 1 of 2022, he

 argued that the learned Trial Court has failed to accord fair trial

 to the accused. The accused was supplied with police papers

 and on the very same day charges were framed. After framing

 of the charge, on the very same day, evidence of four

 prosecution witnesses came to be recorded. All this happened in

 ugly haste and effective opportunity of hearing was not granted

 to the accused. The accused was prevented from adducing the

 defence evidence despite his two oral and one written request

 and the learned Trial Court has unfairly closed the defence side.

 In order to show compliance of provisions of Section 309 of the

 Cr.P.C. as well as provision of the POCSO Act , the trial against

 the accused came to be concluded without granting any

 opportunity to the accused to defend himself and the learned

 Trial Court has flouted all the principles of natural justice. 5. The learned Senior Advocate for the accused

 placed reliance on para 10 of judgment in Hussainara
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 11/84 Khatoon and Others vs. Home Secretary, State of Bihar reported in (1980) 1 Supreme Court cases 98 and argued that

 concept of fair trial includes grant of sufficient time to the

 accused for preparing his case. Reliance is also placed on the

 judgment in the matter of Anokhilal vs. State of Madhya

 Pradesh reported in (2019) 20 Supreme Court cases 196.

 With the aid of this ruling, it is argued that where death

 sentence could be one of the alternative punishment, the Trial

 Court is supposed to be vigilant in order to see that full

 opportunity of hearing is granted to the accused to present his

 defence. Reliance is also placed on State of Bihar vs. Balram

 Singh (2022) 2 PLJR 625 for contending that denial of fair

 trial to the accused results in quashing the impugned judgment

 and sentence. The learned Senior Counsel for the accused has

 also relied on Krishna Janardhan Bhat vs. Dattatraya G.

 Hegde reported in (2008) 4 Supreme Court Cases 54 for

 contending that it is not necessary for the accused to step into

 the witness box for proving the defence and that the accused

 has right to maintain silence. By placing reliance on David vs.

 State of Kerala reported in 2020 SCC Online Kerala 3368, it

 is argued on behalf of the appellant that the accused is not

 obliged to produce defence evidence and he can show on the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 12/84 totality of all the material available on record that the fact

 presumed can not be said to have been proved on the touch

 stone of preponderance of probability. Lastly, by placing

 reliance on Manoj Pradeep Singh vs. The State of Rajasthan reported in 2022 Live Law (SC) 557, it is argued that special

 reasons means exceptional reasons for awarding death penalty

 and the case in hand does not satisfy that criteria. 6. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor

 appearing for the State of Bihar argued that the accused is

 "Dabang" person from the village and he had taken the minor

 girl for committing rape on her. The accused has criminal

 history. No argument were advanced by the learned APP to

 rebut the contention that fair trial was not accorded to the

 accused. 7. When we started hearing of the appeal as well as

 the Death Reference, initially for few dates, the learned

 Additional Public Prosecutor was absent. Hence, vide order

 dated 04.07.2022 we were constrained to appoint learned

 Advocate Mr. Prince Kumar Mishra to act as an Amicus Curiae

 in order to protect the interest of all stake holders. That is how

 we have also heard Mr. Prince Kumar Mishra, the learned

 Amicus Curiae at sufficient length of time. By taking us to the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 13/84 entire order-sheets of the case, it is argued by him that on

 22.01.2022 after supplying the police papers to him, the

 accused or his learned Advocate have not sought any

 adjournment. They have not objected even for recording

 evidence of prosecution witnesses on that day. He argued that

 the accused participated in the trial without any demur or

 protest. Similarly, even on the next date of hearing i.e., on

 24.01.2022 also the accused had not applied for adjournment.

 In submission of the learned Amicus Curiae, on 24.01.2022,

 after closure of prosecution evidence, statement of the accused

 under Section 313 Cr.P.C. came to be recorded and there was no

 question of granting adjournment at that stage. He further

 argued that the learned Trial Court had granted an opportunity

 to the accused to produce defence evidence on 25.01.2022 but

 the accused failed to avail that opportunity. Therefore, learned

 Trial Court has rightly decided the case by pronouncing

 judgment on that day keeping in mind the mandate of Section

 309 of the Cr.P.C. as well as that of Section 35 of the POCSO

 Act. He further argued that after suffering the judgment of

 conviction by participating in the trial, the accused now can not

 be permitted to urge that proper opportunity of defending

 himself was not granted by the learned Trial Court. The learned
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 14/84 Amicus Curiae attempted to distinguish judgment in the matter

 of Anokhilal (supra) by contending that facts of that case were

 otherwise. In that matter, the charge was framed in absence of

 the defence Advocate and subsequently, the Advocate from the

 panel of Legal Aid was not granted sufficient time by the

 learned Trial Court. By placing reliance on judgment in the

 matter of Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh and Another vs. State

 of Gujarat and Others reported in (2004) 4 SCC 158 the

 learned Amicus Curiae argued that proper opportunity of

 hearing was granted to the accused in the case in hand. He also

 placed reliance on judgment in State of U.P vs. Sambhunath

 Singh and Others reported in (2001) 4 SCC 667 and

 contended that legislative mandate of Section 309 of the Cr.P.C.

 is required to be followed scrupulously. He further placed

 reliance on judgment in Mrs. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi and

 Another vs. Ms. Rani Jethmalani reported in (1979) 4

 Supreme Court cases 167 and contended that assurance of fair

 trial is the principle of natural justice and the defence cannot

 adopt hyper sensitive approach to urge that fair trial was not

 granted to the accused. 8. On merits of the matter, Mr. Prince Kumar

 Mishra, the learned Amicus Curiae argued that the case being
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 15/84 that of rape on the minor female child, the Court is supposed to

 shoulder heavy responsibility by appreciating evidence of the

 prosecution on broader probabilities of the case. Minor

 discrepancies in such cases are required to be ignored. He

 further relied on judgment in State of Punjab vs. Gurumit

 Singh reported in (1996) 2 SCC 384 for contending that

 evidence of the victim of rape if found to be truthful can be

 accepted without corroboration. He argued that evidence of

 PW 2 the victim female child is clear, cogent and trustworthy.

 Therefore, there is no need to interfere in conviction of the

 accused. By placing reliance on Judgment in P Ramesh -vs-

 State (2019)20 SCC 593, he argued that the victim female

 child is a witness of truth and competent witness whose

 evidence can be relied to base conviction. However, the learned

 Amicus Curiae submitted that the case in hand is not falling

 under the category of rarest of rare case and, therefore, is not

 warranting the death penalty. The accused can be sentenced

 alternatively, as per law. 9. We have considered submissions so advanced.

 We have also perused the record and proceedings. We have also

 gone through all the cases cited by both the parties

 meticulously. At the outset itself, we feel to say that we may be
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 16/84 excused for repetition of facts in this case involving extreme

 penalty of death sentence as while dealing with the matter from

 different angles, it is inevitably necessary. 10. Considering the nature of crime and delay in

 disposal of trial, the Legislature has made trials of certain

 offence time bound, nevertheless it is fundamental right of

 every accused to have a speedy trial. As per the legislative

 mandate of Sec. 309 of the Cr.P.C., the trial of the offence

 under Section 376 AB of the IPC is required to be completed

 within a period of two months from the date of filing of the

 charge sheet. Section 35 of the POSCO Act mandates that the

 trial of the offence punishable under Section 4 thereof shall be

 completed, as far as possible, within a period of one year from

 the date of taking cognizance of the offence. Despite these

 provisions meant for speedy trial of sexual offences against

 women and children, one will have to keep in mind that each

 stake holder including the accused has an inbuilt constitutional

 right declared in Article 21 of the Constitution to be dealt with

 fairly in a criminal trial, by adherence to the procedure which

 must be reasonable, just and fair. Failure to adopt such

 procedure and non-compliance of statutory procedure so also

 error in the procedure adopted at the trial can entail the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 17/84 consequence of setting aside the conviction and sentence

 imposed on the accused. In an overzealous efforts to decide the

 trial of a grave offence warranting extreme penalty, it is not

 expected of a trial Judge to compromise the due process of

 law. Cause of justice in such cases cannot be made to suffer by

 lightly brushing aside the basic principle of fair opportunity of

 defending himself to the accessed. 11. The criminal trial is a quest for truth in which

 an unbiased Judge is supposed to give fair trial to both - the

 prosecuting agency as well as the accused, in order to unearth

 the truth to arrive at a reasonable conclusion and then, for

 imposing appropriate punishment to the accused if his guilt is

 established beyond all reasonable doubt. In the matter of Mrs.

 Maneka Sanjay Gandhi (supra) relied by Mr. Mishra, the

 learned amicus curiae, the Supreme Court has observed that

 assurance of a fair trial is the first imperative of the

 dispensation of justice. The notion of a free trial has close link

 with the basic and universally accepted human rights. The

 question whether a criminal trial is fair or not will have to be

 examined by keeping in mind varied factors including the

 gravity of the accusation, the time and resources which the

 society can reasonably afford to spend, the quality of the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 18/84 available resources, the social values etc. Let us therefore

 meticulously examine the record of the learned Trial Court in

 order to ascertain as to whether in the case in hand, the learned

 Trial Court by acting as an impartial adjudicator has accorded

 fair trial to the accused by granting him real opportunity of

 hearing by following due process of law, while keeping in

 mind the mandate of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.

 Ultimately, nobody can be deprived of his life or personal

 liberty except according to procedure established by law. 12. Now let us examine how procedural law i.e.

 the Cr.P.C . takes care of principle of natural justice and fair

 play in action while conducting the trial. In the case in hand,

 on 20.01.2022, cognizance of the offences under Section

 376AB of the IPC, Section 4 of the POCSO Act and Section

 3(2)(v) of the Prevention of Atrocities Act was taken on

 20.01.2022. Section 207 of the Cr.P.C. mandates that the

 accused must be provided without delay the documents

 including complete set of the police Report filed under Section

 173 of the Cr.P.C., the First Information Report recorded under Section 154 of the Cr.P.C., statements of witnesses recorded

 under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., confessions and statements

 recorded under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. etc., free of cost
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 19/84 before commitment of case to the court of sessions. This is

 obviously for following principles of natural justice and in

 order to enable the accused to know well in advance the case

 against him and evidence by which the prosecution proposes to

 prove the charge against him. By complying this provision,

 the State gives an opportunity to the accused to think of his

 defence even at the initial stage, before framing of the charge

 and to enable him to point out to the court that evidence

 collected by the Investigator is not sufficient to frame a charge

 against him, at the next stage which is of hearing on the charge

 contemplated by Section 227 of the Cr.P.C. By going through

 the police papers relating to investigation, the accused gets a

 broad idea of allegations against him immediately, in order to

 enable him to give instructions to his advocate for effectively

 defending him at the time of hearing on the charge

 contemplated under Section 227 of the Cr.P.C. 13. We have already noted the provision of Section

 207 of the Cr.P.C. found in Chapter-XVI of the Cr.P.C . dealing

 with commencement of proceedings, which mandates that in

 the proceedings instituted on a police report, the copy of the

 police report under Section 173, the FIR recorded under Section

 154, statements recorded under Section 161, confessions and
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 20/84 statements recorded under Section 164 and all documents etc.

 sought to be relied by the Prosecution for establishing the guilt

 of the accused are required to be supplied to him WITHOUT

 DELAY. To supplement this provision of Section 207 of the

 Cr.P.C. under its rule making power, the Patna High Court has

 framed Rules titled as 'Criminal Court Rules of the High Court

 of Judicature at Patna'. Rule 50 A thereof reads thus- Thus Trial Courts in the State are again reminded

 by this Court to make strict compliance of Section 207,

 keeping in mind the object thereof to apprise the accused of

 allegations against him forthwith. This compliance is required

 to be done prior to hearing the parties on the point of framing

 of the charge i.e. prior to the stage as envisaged by Sections

 227 & 228 of the Cr.P.C. 14. As one of the offence alleged against the

 accused is punishable under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 21/84 Special Court is required to follow the provisions of Section 33 thereof which mandates that the trial is required to be

 conducted in accordance with the procedure specified in the Cr.P.C . for a trial before a Court of Session. Chapter XVIII of

 the Cr.P.C . deals with the procedure to be followed by the

 Sessions Judge while conducting the trial before it. At the

 outset, the Prosecutor has to unfold the case against the

 accused by describing the charge and by disclosing the

 evidence with which he proposes to prove the guilt of the

 accused. After completion of this stage, prescribed by Section

 226 of the Cr.P.C., the Sessions Judge is required to hear

 submissions of the accused and the prosecution and to apply

 his mind to the record of the case. Both the parties have a

 right of audience at this stage and the accused is at a liberty to

 demonstrate at the very threshold itself that he is entitled for

 discharge from the case. The opportunity of hearing

 contemplated at the stage of Section 227 Cr.P.C. is not an

 empty formality and this right cannot be denied to the accused.

 That opportunity needs to be sufficient, adequate and

 reasonable. If the Sessions Judge, on the basis of material

 reflected in the charge-sheet is of the opinion that there is

 ground for presuming that the accused has committed the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 22/84 offence exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions, he is

 required to frame the charge in writing. That charge is not

 only required to be read over but also explained to the accused.

 Thus, on framing charge under Section 228 of the Cr.P.C. the

 accused becomes precisely aware as to the case against him,

 which he shall be required to answer in the trial. After making

 the accused aware about the case which he is liable to meet

 and if the accused pleads not guilty and claims trial, the

 Sessions Judge is required to fix a date for examination of

 prosecution witnesses as per mandate of Section 230 of the

 Cr.P.C., on some later date. 15. If the Charge is of grave, severe and complex

 nature, the accused is naturally required to be given sufficient

 time to prepare his defence after receipt of the charge sheet

 with complete papers of investigation and after being made

 aware of the exact charge against him by the Trial Court under Section 228 of the Cr.P.C. The above proposition flows from

 the entitlement of fair hearing which is applicable to all

 judicial proceedings. Procedural fairness is even otherwise

 essential for enabling the Judge for arriving at correct decision

 and the same is the mandate of Sections 207 , 226 , 227 and 230 of the Cr.P.C., Section 230 of the Cr.P.C. requires that after
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 23/84 framing the charge, the case should be adjourned and fixed at a

 later date for recording evidence of prosecution witnesses. The

 Trial Court, considering the extreme penalty to which the

 accused becomes liable in the case relating to the charge of

 grave nature, is always duty bound to fix the case for recording

 evidence of the prosecution after passage of few days after

 framing the charge in order to enable the accused to think

 carefully about the case and then to consult his Advocate, to

 instruct his Advocate and to prepare his defence after effective

 consultation with his Advocate. Having interaction by

 conference with his Advocate for this purpose is sine qua non

 for grant of fair trial to the accused. Therefore, procedural

 code i.e., the Cr.P.C . does not contemplate recording of

 evidence of prosecution witnesses immediately on the very

 same day after framing of the charge. On the contrary, it

 provides for posting the case on some later date for this

 purpose. It is expected of the trial Judge to see that the accused

 and particularly an under trial accused gets proper, full,

 meaningful and sufficient opportunity to defend himself by

 consulting his advocate and by instructing him appropriately.

 For adhering to the principles of natural justice, the Trial Court

 is therefore supposed to adjourn the case for recording
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 24/84 evidence of prosecution after a gap of few days after framing

 of the charge. Ugly hurry in recording evidence of prosecution

 immediately on the very same day after framing of the charge,

 particularly, when the accused is an under trial prisoner would

 defeat the ends of justice and can cause prejudice to both the

 parties. In many cases even the prosecution has to secure

 attendance of witnesses through the process of the Court.

 Principles of natural justice, therefore cannot be perverted to

 achieve the very opposite end, by starting recording of

 evidence of prosecution after framing of the charge on the very

 same day as in such eventuality, sometimes even the

 prosecuting agency can be prejudiced. For all these reasons,

 strict compliance of Sections 207 , 226 , 227 and 230 of the

 Cr.P.C. is mandatory and right conferred on the accused at

 these stages cannot be denied to him by the trial Judge. 16. After recording evidence of the prosecution, so

 also the statement of the accused under Section 313 of the

 Cr.P.C and after hearing the parties, if the Sessions Judge is of

 the opinion that there is no evidence that the accused

 committed the offence, the accused becomes entitled for

 acquittal as per provision of Section 232 of the Cr.P.C.

 However, when the accused could not secure acquittal at that
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 25/84 stage, then the Judge is duty bound to call the accused to enter

 into his defence for strict adherence to the principle of natural

 justice which is embodied in the procedural law itself as per

 mandate of Section 233 of the Cr.P.C. Apart from filing his

 written statement of defence, the accused is also entitled to

 examine defence witnesses for placing his case before the court

 and for this purpose he can apply for the issuance of process for

 compelling the attendance of any witnesses which he wants to

 examine or for production of any document or thing. Section

 233 of the Cr.P.C. provides that except when such request is

 made for the purpose of vexation or delay or for defeating the

 ends of justice, the Judge has no alternative but to issue such

 process. Refusal on the part of the Sessions Judge to accede to

 such request has to be supported by reasons to be recorded.

 Recording of reason is mandated to prevent unfairness or

 arbitrariness or infiltration of bias. Provision of Section 233 of

 the Cr.P.C. is thus mandatory and failure to comply with this

 provision in its true letter and spirit amounts to failure of

 justice. The salutary provision contended in Section 233 is for

 adherence to the principles of natural justice as nobody can be

 condemned unheard. In a case relating to serious charges like

 the one in hand, the Court cannot bypass this provision which
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 26/84 enables the accused to put forth his case by examining defence

 witnesses or by entering in the dock himself after complying

 provision of Section 315 of the Cr.P.C. This is so because in the

 case in hand the accused has set up the plea of alibi and false

 implication due to political enmity. 17. Law recognizes and values the obligation to

 hear the other or both sides as no person should be condemned

 unheard i.e., audi alteram partem. The rules of natural justice

 are flexible and their application depends on facts of each case

 as well as the applicable statutory provisions, i.e., the Cr.P.C .

 in the case in hand. Judiciary as an organ of the State is

 controlled and regulated by the Rule of Law and therefore it

 becomes the primary duty of the every trial Judge to act justly

 and fairly and not arbitrarily or capriciously. Therefore, when

 procedural law i.e., Section 233 of the Cr.P.C. mandates that

 the accused is entitled to examine witnesses to establish by

 preponderance of probability that he has not committed the

 crime in question, the Court cannot shut its door for depriving

 the accused to avail this opportunity provided by the Statute.

 The Court is bound to ensure that provision of Section 233 of

 the Cr.P.C. is scrupulously followed by allowing the accused to

 enter in his defence particularly when plea of alibi is raised by
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 27/84 the accused by claiming absence from the spot. Ultimately

 burden is always on the accused to establish this plea and for

 that purpose it becomes necessary for him to adduce defence

 evidence. For fair and honest compliance of this provision of Section 233 of the Cr.P.C., the Trial Court has to grant

 sufficient time to the accused to apply for issuance of process

 and to secure attendance of his witnesses before the Court

 through the Court. More sensitiveness on this aspect is

 expected from the Trial Court when such an accused is

 suffering incarceration and as such is unable to contact his

 advocates or at least relatives in order to give instructions on

 this aspect. Seriousness of such situation gets more intensified

 when such an under trial prisoner is not having an advantage

 of appearing before the Trial Court physically because of

 restrictions imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic. In such

 situation, it becomes virtually impossible for the accused to

 defend himself effectively unless and until the Trial Court

 follows the provision of Section 233 Cr.P.C. in its true letter

 and spirit. When under trial prisoner has no access to his

 advocate or family members due to virtual hearing before the

 Court because of COVID-19 pandemic, it becomes the duty of

 theTrial Court to comply with the provision of Section 233 of
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 28/84 the Cr.P.C . scrupulously for preventing miscarriage of justice.

 Omission to comply this provision which is in fact essence of

 principles of natural justice undoubtedly amounts to the

 flagrant breach of the principles of natural justice if such non-

 compliance results in severe and substantial prejudice to the

 accused and consequently failure of justice. In such fact

 situation, hot haste in literally bypassing this stage of the trial

 by making a show of pseudo-compliance thereof certainly

 amounts to deprivation of fair trial to the accused. 18. Now let us examine the law laid down by the

 Supreme Court dealing with adherence to principles of natural

 justice and procedural fairness required to be adopted by the

 learned Trial Court while conducting criminal trial. Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees life and personal liberty to all

 persons. It read thus: In the matter of Anokhilal (Supra), the Supreme

 Court has considered the question as to how and to what

 extent the procedure established by law is required to be

 followed while trying the accused in criminal case.
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 29/84 Following are relevant observations of the Supreme Court: entrenched principles of law that have been
 laboriously built by illuminating judicial
 precedents are sacrificed or compromised. In no
 circumstance, can the cause of justice be made to
 suffer, though, undoubtedly, it is highly desirable
 that the finality of any trial is achieved in the
 quickest possible time." 26. Expeditious disposal is undoubtedly required in
 criminal matters and that would naturally be part
 of guarantee of fair trial. However, the attempts to
 expedite the process should not be at the expense of
 the basic elements of fairness and the opportunity
 to the accused, on which postulates, the entire
 criminal administration of justice is founded. In the
 pursuit for expeditious disposal, the cause of
 justice must never be allowed to suffer or be
 sacrificed. What is paramount is the cause of
 justice and keeping the basic ingredients which
 secure that as a core idea and ideal, the process
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 31/84 may be expedited, but fast tracking of process must
 never ever result in burying the cause of justice. 27. In the circumstances, going by the principles laid down in Bashira v. State of U.P. , [(1969) 1
 SCR 32 : AIR 1968 SC 1313 : 1968 Cri LJ 1495],
 we accept the submission made by Mr Luthra, the
 learned Amicus Curiae and hold that the learned
 counsel appointed through Legal Services
 Authority to represent the appellant in the present
 case ought to have been afforded sufficient
 opportunity to study the matter and the infraction
 in that behalf resulted in miscarriage of justice. In
 light of the conclusion that we have arrived at,
 there is no necessity to consider other submissions
 advanced by Mr Luthra, the learned Amicus
 Curiae. 28. All that we can say by way of caution is that in
 matters where death sentence could be one of the
 alternative punishments, the courts must be
 completely vigilant and see that full opportunity at
 every stage is afforded to the accused". This makes it clear that the trial Judge is required

 to follow the procedural law meticulously and scrupulously at

 each and every stage of criminal trial in order to see that fair

 trial is granted to the accused. 19. It is also apposite to quote observation of the

 Supreme Court made in paragraphs 38 to 41 in the matter of
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 32/84 Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh (Supra), which is commonly

 known as the 'Best Bakery Case'. Those read thus: Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 34/84 It is also observed by the Supreme Court that the

 concept of fair trial entails familiar triangulation of interests of

 the accused, the State and prosecuting agencies. Thus as of

 prosecuting agencies, interest of the accused is also required

 to be taken care of in convicting him of the grave offence. 20. In the matter of Balram Singh (supra) the

 Division Bench of this Court had set aside the conviction and

 resultant sentence by holding that the accused in that case was

 not provided with any basic documents or sufficient time to

 had the advantage of any discussion or interaction with the

 lawyer. 21. The learned Senior Advocate for the appellant

 had also placed reliance on para 10 of the Judgment in Hussainara Khatoon (IV ) (Supra). However we are unable to

 understand properly of placing reliance on this ruling which

 states that the State cannot avoid its constitutional obligation

 to provide speedy trial to the accused by pleading financial or

 administrative inability. Plea of poverty cannot come in the

 way of speedy Justice. The ratio of this ruling cannot inure to

 the benefit of the accused, as in the case in hand within few

 days from filing of the charge sheet, the subject trial was over. 22. How the trial against the accused proceeded
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 35/84 and how it ended in imposing death penalty to him is required

 to be put on record for testing whether fair, just and reasonable

 procedure, in the light of relevant provisions of the Cr.P.C .

 was followed or not by the learned Trial Court in convicting

 and sentencing the accused to suffer the death penalty. The

 trial in the instant case proceeded thus, as seen from the order

 sheets/ Roznama maintained by the learned Trial Court. 23. Proceedings Which Took Place Before The

 learned Trial Court On 20.01.2022 As Per The Order-

 Sheet:- 24. Proceedings Which Took Place Before The

 Learned Trial Court On 22.01.2022 As Per The Order-

 Sheet:- It is apposite to quote the order passed on the

 application of PW 5 Anima Kumari, Investigating Officer, on

 22.01.2022 by theTrial Court reads which as under: 25. Proceedings Which Took Place Before The

 Learned Trial Court On 24.01.2022 As Per The Order-
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 39/84 Sheet:- Then, on 24.01.2022 itself PW 5 Anima Kumari,

 Police Sub-Inspector filed a written application under her

 signature alleging that the accused party is giving allurement

 and also threatening the victim female child and her family

 members by going to their house. Therefore, she prayed that

 the Special POCSO Case No.1 of 2022 should be decided on

 that day i.e., on 24.01.2022 itself. (The order sheet does not

 show that the learned Trial Court called for say of the

 accused on this application). Learned Trial Court heard both

 sides. The order sheet reflects that at that point of time itself,

 the learned Advocate for the accused prayed for grant of at

 least one week's time. (Obviously, adjournment was

 sought for postponing recording of statement of the

 accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C.). Learned Trial Court

 observed that the learned Advocate for the accused has not
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 40/84 shown any concrete reason and further recorded that the

 accused is protracting the trial without reason. Learned Trial

 Court partly allowed the application of PW 5 Anima Kumari,

 Investigating Officer, with the following order passed on that

 application on 24.01.2022 itself:- The order sheet reveals that instead of adjourning

 the case for one week, as prayed by the learned Advocate for

 the accused, the learned Trial Court directed production of the

 accused through Video Conferencing on the very same day for

 recording his statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. [This

 implies that at the time of recording evidence of

 prosecution witnesses he was not before the Court.]

 Accordingly, the accused was produced through the Video

 Conferencing before the learned Trial Court at 4:15 PM of

 24.01.2022 and his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. was

 recorded immediately. The accused then expressed his

 willingness to adduce defence evidence. Once again the

 learned Advocate for the accused sought one week time in the

 matter. Learned Trial Court after hearing the parties directed
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 41/84 the accused to produce the documents, if any, and to keep

 defence witnesses ready before the Trial Court at 10:30 AM of

 25.01.2022 with an observation that 'one who seek justice

 must come with clean hand' and 'justice delayed, justice

 denied'. Learned Trial Court made a record that it had insisted

 the learned Advocate for the accused to adduce defence

 evidence on that day i.e., on 24.01.2022 itself but the learned

 Advocate for the accused had not shown any regards to this

 suggestion. With these notings, the learned Trial Court fixed

 the case for recording evidence of defence witnesses on

 25.01.2022 i.e. on the very next day after recording evidence

 of the prosecution and the statement of the accused under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 26. Proceedings Which Took Place Before The

 Learned Trial Court On 25.01.2022 As Per The Order-

 Sheet: Then at 2:00 PM of 25.01.2022, learned Trial

 Court made a record in the order sheet that no defence

 witnesses are produced by the advocate for the accused nor list

 of such witness is filed by his relatives. Learned Trial Court

 further recorded in the order sheet that then he called for the

 report from the office in which it is mentioned that the

 Advocate for the accused does not want to examine defence

 witnesses. [No such report of the office could be located in

 the record of the Trial Court.]

 At 2:30 PM of 25.01.2022, learned Trial Court has

 recorded in the order-sheet that list of defence witnesses or

 documents are not filed and when the advocate for the accused

 was asked to co-operate, he informed the Court that due to
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 44/84 pressure of 40-50 relatives of the accused, he is unable to give

 in writing that the accused does not want to adduce defence

 evidence. It is further recorded that the advocate for the

 accused has stated that he will give the application for closing

 the defence evidence in 10 minutes. It is further mentioned in

 the order sheet that the Advocate for the accused has pointed

 out that the Court should pass judgments in other cases which

 are fixed on that day for passing judgment. At 2:45 PM of 25.01.2022, it is recorded in the

 order sheet that the application for grant of adjournment filed

 by the accused on that day is disposed of by considering it as a

 pressurizing tactics and excuse. [No such order is found to

 have been passed by the learned Trial Court on the

 application for adjournment which was moved by the

 accused on 25.01.2022.] Learned Trial Court made a record

 in the order sheet of 25.02.2022 that arguments in the case

 were heard up to 6:30 PM and the case be put up for

 pronouncement of judgment at 7:00 PM of that day i.e.,

 25.01.2022. At 7:10 PM of 25.01.2022, it is recorded in the

 order sheet that the learned Trial Court has pronounced the

 judgment and convicted the accused of the offences punishable
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 45/84 under Section 376AB of the IPC, Section 4 of the POCSO Act

 and Section 3(2)(v) of the Prevention of Atrocities Act. The

 case was then adjourned to 10:30 AM of 27.01.2022 for

 hearing on quantum of sentence. 27. Proceedings Which Took Place Before The

 Learned Trial Court On 27.01.2022 As Per The Order-

 Sheet: 28. Life and personal liberty of any person can not

 be taken away except in accordance with procedure established

 by law. The basic procedure for trial of a criminal case as

 prescribed by the Cr.P.C . is elaborately dealt with by us in

 foregoing paras. After putting on record how the trial

 progressed now let us examine whether the learned Trial Court

 was alive to or aware about fundamental rules for conducting
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 46/84 criminal trial as envisaged in the procedural code i.e. the Cr.P.C .

 as well as the Criminal Court Rules framed by this Court apart

 from principles enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution and

 whether the same were strictly followed while conducting the

 trial which ended by imposing death penalty to the accused. 29. In the instant case, the charge-sheet i.e. Police

 Report under Section 173 of the Cr.P.C. was filed on 20.01.2022

 and presence of the accused was also secured by the learned

 Trial Judge through Video Conferencing. Despite taking

 cognizance of offence against him, on that day, the accused was

 not provided with the Police Report with all its annexures by

 ignoring the mandate of Section 207 of the Cr.P.C. which direct

 supply of the entire set of papers of investigation without any

 delay to the accused. Learned Trial Court instead of complying

 provision of Section 207 of the Cr.P.C. adjourned the case to

 22.01.2022 for supply of police papers as well as for framing of

 charge. Thus salutary principle enshrined in Section 207 of the

 Cr.P.C. and Rule 50A of the Criminal Court Rules is blatantly

 violated by the learned Trial Court thereby depriving the

 accused to become aware of the case against him and to have a

 broad idea of accusation against him well in advance so as to

 enable him to prepare himself to instruct his Advocate
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 47/84 appropriately beforehand for hearing on the point of framing of

 charge and for claiming discharge during that hearing. The

 accused was not provided sufficient time to go through the

 entire set of papers of investigation, ponder over it and then to

 consult as well as instruct his Advocate for opposing the request

 of the prosecution for framing of charges against him and from

 claiming discharge. 30. Accused Md. Major, an under trial prisoner,

 was not even having the advantage of physical production

 before the Court due to COVID-19 Pandemic restrictions. He

 was having no opportunity to contact his advocate who was

 engaged just a day earlier ( i.e. on 21.01.2022). In compliance

 of due procedure prescribed by Section 207 of the Cr.P.C., the

 learned Trial Court ought to have supplied the police papers to

 the accused through the authorities of the prison at least on

 21.01.2022 i.e., the day when the defence Advocate came to be

 engaged. 31. What happened on 22.01.2022 before the

 learned Trial Court is a glaring example of blatant violation of

 procedural law by the learned Trial Court and the events that

 took place on that day smacks of bias attitude of the learned

 Trial Court towards the accused. On that day police papers of
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 48/84 investigation were supplied to the advocate of the accused as the

 accused was not physically produced before the learned Trial

 Court. The record of the learned Trial Court reveal that because

 of restrictions imposed due to COVID-19 Pandemic, the

 accused was never produced physically before the Court at any

 point of time. Whenever directed by the learned Trial Court, he

 used to be produced before the learned Trial Court through

 Video Conferencing. Record of the learned Trial Court does not

 reflect that from the date of taking cognizance of offence till

 conclusion of the trial, the learned defence Counsel had a single

 opportunity to meet, consult or discuss the case with the accused

 at least by Video Conferencing. In fact, the accused had no

 opportunity to read the charge sheet with papers of investigation

 which was supplied to his Advocate few minutes earlier to

 hearing on the point of charge on 22.01.2022 and by that time

 the accused was not directed to be produced via Video

 Conferencing by the learned Trial Court. Then without giving

 any opportunity to the learned defence counsel for having

 interaction with the accused for seeking instructions after

 explaining the contents of the papers of investigation to the

 accused, the learned counsel for the accused was required to

 argue the case on the point of framing of charge as contemplated
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 49/84 by Section 227 of the Cr.P.C. All this seems to have taken place

 within a short span of time at the opening hours of the day and

 before 11.30 AM on 22.01.2022. 32. The accused, by that time, was not even aware

 of anything contained in the police papers of investigation

 which was incriminating him. He was as such unable to brief the

 defence counsel for putting his stand before the court at the

 stage of hearing contemplated by Section 227 of the Cr.P.C. On

 22.01.2022, neither the accused nor the defence counsel were

 having any means to communicate with each other for imparting

 and seeking instructions, for putting forth the stand of the

 accused before the Court. The order sheet of the learned Trial

 Court is not even showing that the accused was produced before

 the learned Trial Court at the time of hearing on the charge

 through the video conferencing and that the learned defence

 counsel was in a position to communicate with him at least at

 that point of time for getting instructions for putting forth his

 stand during the course of hearing contemplated by Section 227 of the Cr.P.C. It is crystal clear that the learned defence counsel

 was made to argue the case on the point of framing of charge

 without having actual and real opportunity of getting

 instructions from the accused immediately after furnishing
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 50/84 police report to him. This makes it clear that due procedure of

 law as prescribed by Section 207 and 227 of the Cr.P.C. was not

 at all followed by the learned Trial Court by adopting totally

 insensitive approach to the case relating to the serious offence

 for which the alternate punishment was death sentence. In fact,

 perusal of the order sheet dated 22.01.2022 does not leave any

 ambiguity or creates a slightest doubt in our mind that the

 learned defence counsel was not even granted a breathing time

 to have a glance, leave apart sufficient time to go through the

 entire set of the charge sheet which was supplied to him on that

 day just few minutes earlier. He must have placed his

 submissions, if any, under compelling circumstances on point of

 framing charge immediately thereafter. This aspect will be clear

 from the events which took place subsequently in quick

 succession on that day i.e., 22.1.2022. In fact, instead of being

 the mute spectator to the happenings before him in the most

 natural course it was expected of the learned Trial Court to raise

 to the occasion by adjourning the case suo motu after supplying

 police papers to the defence Advocate for enabling him to

 present his case after seeking instructions from the accused for

 defending him meaningfully and effectively from the stage of

 framing of the charge. It is obvious that the learned Trial Court
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 51/84 has considered the hearing on the point of framing of charge as

 empty formality by its failure to adjourn the case to some other

 date on 22.01.2022 after supplying the charge sheet to the

 defence Advocate. In the meanwhile, the learned trial Court

 ought to have permitted him to seek instructions from the

 accused through video conferencing. This was not done and

 mandatory provisions of Section 207 and 227 of the Cr.P.C.

 were breached with impurity by the learned Trial Court due to

 undue haste in framing the charge on the very same day. This

 breach of procedural law certainly deprived the accused of his

 right to have a fair trial. This is how the charge was framed by

 the learned Trial Court and then by getting the accused produced

 through the Video Conferencing, it was explained to him. 33. Immediately after the framing of the charge,

 PW 5 Anima Kumari, a Police Sub-Inspector, had filed an

 application before the learned Trial Court with a prayer that

 evidence of prosecution witnesses should be recorded on the

 very same day, i.e. 22.01.2022 itself for the reason that secret

 information is received by her to the effect that the brother and

 members of the family of the accused are unnecessarily

 pressurizing the prosecution party. It is crystal clear that

 without passing any order on that application from 11.30 AM of
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 52/84 22.01.2022, the learned Trial Court started work of recording

 depositions of four witnesses viz. PW 1 to PW 4. The learned

 Advocate for the accused was made to cross-examine those

 witnesses instantaneously on the very same day. Dias hours in

 the Trial Court starts from 10.30 AM. In opening period of one

 hour i.e. from 10.30 AM to 11.30 AM, the learned Trial Court

 had supplied police papers to the learned Advocate for the

 accused, shown to have heard the parties on framing of the

 charge, framed charges for the grave offences against the

 accused. The learned Trial Court further made the record that

 the charges so framed were read over and explained to the

 accused by getting him produced through Video Conferencing

 and his plea was also recorded thereafter. One fails to

 understand how such judicial work requiring application of

 mind can be done within a short period of one hour, in addition

 to entertaining the application of the Investigating Officer PW 5

 Anima Kumari which was made for recording evidence of

 prosecution witnesses on that day itself. Ultimately, after

 perusing the entire papers of investigation and applying mind to

 the submissions made by both parties, charges are required to be

 framed and this exercise is certainly time consuming exercise.

 Trial Judge is undoubtedly aware about the actual time
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 53/84 consumed in framing charge which requires perusal of the entire

 police papers, hearing submissions of both sides and application

 of mind to the record to frame the charge. As such, it is

 practically and humanly impossible to do this exercise in a short

 span of time which ultimately leads us to the conclusion that the

 Trial Court has done this exercise as mere formality bypassing

 the mandate of law and the actual spirit of it. Within such short

 span of time, the learned Trial Court has also shown that it heard

 both parties on the application of PW 5 Anima Kumari, I.O. and

 passed an order thereon. In fact, perusal of the said order of the

 learned Trial Court which we have reproduced earlier shows

 that instead of actually deciding that application for recording

 evidence of the prosecution witnesses forthwith, initially, the

 learned Trial Judge had recorded evidence of all four

 prosecution witnesses and then he had in fact passed the order

 on the said application of the Investigating Officer. Recitals in

 the said order passed by the learned Trial Court are to the effect

 that "..........and further all witnesses present today have been

 produced and their depositions were taken down in the interest

 of justice." These wordings clearly show that as soon as PW 5

 Anima Kumari, I.O., had tendered the application for recording

 evidence of four prosecution witnesses, the work of recording of
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 54/84 deposition of four witnesses must have commenced at 11.30 AM

 of 22.01.2022 and after completion of their deposition, the order

 must have been written allowing that application. Thus, even

 the order sheet is not depicting the events as happened before

 the Court on that day, correctly. That apart, procedure adopted

 by the learned Trial Court for expediting the trial did not secure

 the ends of justice. Rather cause of justice suffered by the

 manner in which the trial was conducted. 34. This lightening speed by which the learned

 Trial Court proceeded in the matter on 22.01.2022 by jumping

 the stages prescribed by the procedural Code must have made it

 impossible for the learned Advocate for the accused even to go

 through the police papers including statements of prosecution

 witnesses recorded under Sections 161 and 164 of the Cr.P.C. as

 well as other documents of investigation, for conducting

 effective cross-examination of four prosecution witnesses

 examined on that day. To crown this all, the learned Advocate

 for the accused was not in a position to communicate with the

 accused as the accused was not even physically present before

 the learned Trial Court. Rather the record shows that the

 accused was in incommunicado state right from the inception to

 end of the trial as he was used to be produced through the Video
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 55/84 Conferencing as and when the learned Trial Court required his

 presence either for warning him to appoint defence Advocate or

 for explaining the charge and for recording his plea. 35. The order-sheet even does not show that at

 the time of recording of evidence of all four prosecution

 witnesses who were examined on 22.01.2022, the accused was

 present before the Court at least through Video Conferencing to

 hear evidence which was surfacing against him on that day.

 Recording of evidence of the prosecution witnesses in presence

 of the accused is minimum requirement of fair trial to the

 accused. It is seen from the order-sheet that the accused was not

 made to remain present even through Video Conferecning while

 recording evidence of six prosecution witnesses on 22.01.2022

 and 24.01.2022. Evidence of all prosecution witnesses is seen

 to have been recorded in absence of the accused. Entire

 evidence in this case was recorded by Video Conferencing in

 which only the Advocate of the accused participated from

 remote point. At this stage, it is relevant to note mandatory

 provision of Section 273 of the Cr.P.C. which reads thus: This mandatory provision of recording evidence in

 presence of the accused is flouted by the learned Trial Court as

 the record and proceedings i.e. the order-sheet does not depict

 presence of the accused either physically or through Video

 Conferencing before the court while recording evidence of

 prosecution witnesses on any date. 36. The learned Trial Court committed error of

 procedure and breach of Section 230 of the Cr.P.C. by acceding

 the request of the Investigator to record evidence of the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 57/84 prosecution witnesses immediately after framing of the charge,

 which was done after supplying police papers to the Advocate

 for the accused on the very same day and in quick succession.

 This course of conducting trial adopted by the learned Trial

 Court violated the right of the accused to have fair trial.

 Needless to mention that the charges which the accused was

 facing were grave, severe and complex in nature. The accused

 was in an incommunicado state having no access to his

 Advocate. His Advocate was supplied with the charge sheet just

 few minutes back and work of recording evidence of the

 witnesses commenced. There was no scope with the Advocate

 for the accused to prepare defence of the accused after effective

 consultation with and seeking instructions from the accused. As

 stated earlier, the accused had no opportunity even to go through

 the police papers which were not with him on 22.01.2022 rather

 the same were given to his Advocate on that day. The undue

 haste and hurry shown by the learned Trial Court in accepting

 the request of the Investigator by flouting the mandate of Section 230 of the Cr.P.C. resulted in defeating the ends of

 justice and causing prejudice to the accused in his defence.

 Breach of the principles of natural justice in such eventuality is

 writ large from the record of the learned Trial Court itself
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 58/84 rendering the impugned Judgment and Order void. The

 application of the Investigator was totally uncalled for. The

 reason mentioned in the said application by the Investigator was

 totally absurd. The averments in that application of the

 Investigator makes it clear that not a single person from the

 family of the victim female child had raised a grievance about

 exerting pressure by the brother and family members of the

 accused. The Investigator claimed that she received secret

 information to that effect. She is not attributing it to the family

 members of the victim female child. The accused was lodged

 inside the prison. Witness Protection Scheme 2018 framed by

 the Government of India as per the directions of the Supreme

 Court so also the Witness Protection Scheme of 2018 framed by

 the State Government were holding the field. The Investigator

 was empowered to act pursuant to those Schemes if she was

 apprehending that the prosecution witnesses were pressurized

 by the family members of the accused. However, ignoring these

 Schemes, the Investigator insisted for committing procedural

 error and the learned Trial Court meekly surrendered to such

 illegal request of the Investigator and precipitated the matter by

 recording evidence of four prosecution witnesses on the day on

 which police papers were supplied to the learned defence
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 59/84 Advocate and charge was also framed against the accused

 immediately thereafter, who was in an incommunicado state.

 This shows scant regard for following the procedure established

 by law while conducting the trial in which the accused was

 liable for death penalty on proof of the charges levelled by the

 prosecution. 37. We have perused evidence of all four

 prosecution witnesses examined immediately after supplying

 the police papers to the defence Advocate. Evidence of P.W.3

 Dr. Shaila Kunwar Medical Officer of Forbesganj Sub-

 Divisional Hospital who had medically examined the victim

 female child is full of medical terminologies. She had proved

 the papers of medical examination of PW 2 the victim female

 child. The learned defence Advocate who was supplied with the

 police papers just few minutes prior to examination of this

 witness could not effectively cross-examine this Medical

 Officer. We have also noticed that the learned defence Advocate

 could not effectively cross-examine even P.W.1 Mrs. M- mother

 of the victim female child. Rather it seems that as the learned

 Advocate for the accused was short of instructions, in cross-

 examination of mother of the victim female child, certain

 materials which is incriminating the accused has surfaced on the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 60/84 record. This has certainly happened because the learned

 Advocate for the accused had literally no time at his disposal to

 read the charge sheet and previous statements of the mother of

 the victim female child. Similar is the fact situation in respect of

 the other witnesses who were requiring to be cross-examined by

 the learned Advocate for the accused within at the most one

 hour of supplying the police papers to him, in absence of

 briefing from the accused, who was under trial prisoner having

 no access to his Advocate. The learned Trial Court was

 oblivious of the plights of the accused so also of mandatory

 provisions of the procedural law which required strict

 compliance in order to ensure fair trial to the accused. 38. On the next day, i.e. 24.01.2022, learned Trial

 Court recorded evidence of P.W.5 Anima Kumari and P.W.6 Rita

 Kumari, the Investigating Officers, and the record shows that on

 this occasion also accused was not produced by Video

 Conferencing. At least the order sheet does not mention the fact

 that the accused was present through Video Conferencing during

 the course of recording evidence of these two witnesses. Thus,

 on that day also commission of procedural lapses continued.

 The prosecution has closed its side on examining both these

 Investigating Officers on 24.01.2022. Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 61/84 39. What happened on 24.01.2022 is also

 disturbing. Over enthusiastic Investigator P.W.5 Anima Kumari

 then moved one more application with a request to the learned

 Trial Court that the trial should be decided on that day i.e.

 24.01.2022 itself by pronouncing the Judgment and Order. She

 gave reason that the accused party is giving allurement as well

 as threat to the family members of the victim female child.

 When evidence of the prosecution witnesses was over by that

 time, one fails to understand why relatives, if any, of the

 accused, who was undergoing incarceration can chose to adopt

 this course of alluring or pressurizing the members of the

 prosecuting party in a non-compoundable offence. Nothing

 could have been achieved by that. Instead of rejecting the said

 application outright, the learned Trial Court had partly allowed

 that application with a reason that the offence is serious and the

 victim and her relatives enjoy the special status. Be that as it

 may, then by acceding to the request made in writing by P.W.5

 Anima Kumari, the learned Trial Court had chosen to record

 statement of the accused under Section 313 of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure on that day i.e. 24.01.2022 itself, by

 rejecting oral request of the learned defence Advocate for

 adjournment of one week. His request was rejected by observing
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 62/84 that without any reason, he is protracting the trial. The learned

 Trial Court then directed its Bench Clerk to secure presence of

 the accused through Video Conferencing for recording his

 statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. Accordingly, at

 04.15 P.M. of 24.01.2022, statement of the accused came to be

 recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. During his

 examination by the court, the accused has categorically stated

 that he wants to adduce defence evidence. The learned

 Advocate for the accused then again requested for one week

 time for adducing defence evidence. His request was again

 rejected by keeping the case for adducing defence evidence on

 the very same day i.e. 24.01.2022. The order-sheet of that date

 shows that the learned Trial Court was insisting the learned

 Advocate for the accused to adduce defence evidence then and

 there itself after recording of statement under Section 313 of the

 Cr.P.C. We fail to understand the reasons for resorting to such

 an ugly haste in deciding the case involving the serious charge

 entailing death penalty by the learned Trial Court. Ultimately,

 the trial was adjourned to 25.01.2022. 40. We have already noted that on 25.01.2022, the

 learned Advocate for the accused filed a written application for

 grant of a week's adjournment by stating that he has not
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 63/84 received copies of depositions of the prosecution witnesses and

 due to paucity of time, defence witnesses could not be informed

 to remain present in the Court. The proceedings which took

 place before the learned Trial Court on 25.01.2022 which we

 have elaborately mentioned in the foregoing paragraphs makes

 it clear that the learned Trial Court was hell bent upon to deliver

 Judgment on that day and for that purpose, a farce of giving

 few hours' time to examine defence evidence was made.

 Request of the accused was for one week's time adjournment for

 adducing defence evidence. The learned Trial Court insisted the

 learned defence Advocate, as seen from the order sheet by

 saying that as copies of depositions of the prosecution witnesses

 are supplied on that day i.e. 25.01.2022, defence witness should

 be examined on that day itself. This was despite the fact that the

 written application on behalf of the accused was with a reason

 that because of paucity of time, witnesses could not be

 informed to attend Court. The case was just an overnight part

 heard case in which the accused was the under trial prisoner

 who was unable to meet any body including his Advocate. The

 record maintained by the learned Trial Court shows that the

 learned Trial Court even questioned the defence Advocate about

 the propriety of filing such application for grant of adjournment.
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 64/84 The learned Trial Court was throughout insisting the Advocate

 for the accused, of the need to dispose of the case immediately.

 The learned Trial Court on 25.01.2022 had adopted shocking

 procedure for adjourning the case on several times throughout

 that day for insisting the learned defence Advocate to adduce

 defence evidence. When at the beginning of the day itself

 through the written application it was made clear that as the

 presence of defence witness could not be secured for want of

 time, adjournment of one week be granted. In spite of this, the

 learned Trial Court has made a record that the Office Report

 shows that the defence Advocate is not desirous of examining

 the defence witness. Even with the assistance of the learned

 Advocates for the parties, we are unable to find out such office

 report from the record and proceedings. On that day i.e., on

 25.01.2022 even the learned Advocate for the accused had dared

 to point out to the learned Trial Court that it can do the work of

 dictating Judgments in other cases which are fixed on the daily

 board of that day for passing Judgments, instead of insisting

 him to close the defence side. Ultimately, the learned Trial

 Court at about 2.45 P.M. of 25.01.2022, without passing any

 separate order on the application for adjournment to adduce

 defence evidence filed by the accused, had observed in the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 65/84 order-sheet of that day that the said application is disposed of as

 it is outcome of pressurizing tactics and excuse of the accused.

 The way in which the learned Trial Court proceeded on

 25.01.2022 on hour to hour basis despite written request for a

 week's adjournment for adducing defence evidence reflect

 flagrant disregard to the principles of natural justice by the

 learned Trial Court. Each and every Trial Court is duty bound

 that defence of the accused must be heard fairly. In the case in

 hand, in utter haste to decide the case, the learned Trial Court

 has given complete go-by to the principles of fairness in

 procedure, rather considered it as mere formality to be meant for

 surpass. There was nothing on record to suggest that the request

 for adjournment was for the purpose of vexation or delay or for

 defeating the ends of justice. The defence of the accused as

 seen from cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses as

 well as from his statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. was

 that of total denial. The accused has set up the plea of alibi. He

 has specifically contended in his statement under Section 313 of

 the Cr.P.C. that on the day of the incident he was at the house of

 Arjun Ram situated at the western side of the canal and as such

 it was not possible for him to commit the crime in question. He

 has further stated in his statement under Section 313 of the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 66/84 Cr.P.C . that his brother Sattar had contested the election for the

 post of Mukhiya of the village and his another brother Changez

 had contested the election for the post of Member of the Zila

 Parishad. Because of this, Mohammad Shahid who is Mukhiya

 of the village as well as Journalist Aslam and one Md. Nazim

 were annoyed and that is how he is falsely implicated in the

 crime in question at their instance. The accused had specifically

 pleaded in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. that he

 wants to adduce defence evidence. Thus, genuine case for

 examining the defence witnesses was made out by the accused

 and for that purpose he had sought only one week's time for

 producing defence witnesses, after closure of the prosecution

 evidence and after recording his statement under Section 313 of

 the Cr.P.C. However, unfortunately, the accused was not

 permitted by the learned Trial Court to examine the defence

 witnesses by giving reasonable time of one week as sought by

 him. Here also prejudice caused to the accused is writ large

 from the record. Defence witnesses were incapacitated from

 acting as eyes and ears of justice due to closure of defence

 evidence. 41. After closing evidence of the accused by

 refusing to adjourn the case on 25.01.2022 itself, the learned
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 67/84 Trial Court insisted for hearing the arguments and made it a

 record that arguments continued upto 06.30 P.M. of 25.01.2022.

 The learned Trial Court then directed the case to be kept at

 07.00 P.M. of the same day for pronouncement of the Judgment.

 Ultimately, the judgment was pronounced at 07.10 P.M. of

 25.01.2022 convicting the accused of all the offences alleged

 against him. Thus, the learned Trial Court, after approximately

 40 minutes of completion of arguments had dictated and

 pronounced the Judgment of conviction in the case relating to

 capital offence. We ourselves have perused that Judgment of

 conviction which runs into 59 paragraphs consuming 27 pages

 in Font No.12. Our practical experience says that this is

 humanly impossible. It is mystery as to how such voluminous

 Judgment which requires application of mind to the record

 could have been dictated and pronounced by the learned Trial

 Court in just 40 minutes after hearing the arguments of both the

 parties. A lurking doubt arises as to whether the Judgment was

 kept ready and farcical hearing was granted to the parties. This

 is so because the learned Trial Court has repeatedly made it a

 record that the case is required to be decided expeditiously in

 order to do justice to the victim female child. To quote some

 such instances from the record, on 21.01.2022 the case was
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 68/84 adjourned to 24.01.2022 with a reason that for delivering

 justice to the victim female child, the case is required to be

 heard on day to day basis. On that day, the application of the

 Investigator to record evidence immediately after framing

 charges was allowed mainly for the reason that interest of the

 victim and her family members need to be protected. On

 24.01.2022, similar application of the Investigator to decide the

 case immediately after recording evidence of the prosecution

 was partly allowed again with a similar reason that status of the

 victim and her kith and kin requires the Court to do so. Then,

 on that day oral requests for adjournment made by the defence

 were rejected with insistence by the Court to the learned defence

 Advocate to adduce defence evidence on that day only. On

 25.01.2022, the learned Trial Court, as seen from the record

 impressed the learned defence Advocate, the need to decide the

 case immediately and rejected his written application for grant

 of adjournment of one week by holding that it is a pressurizing

 tactics and excuse. It was the very first date fixed for recording

 defence evidence. It is duty of the court to do justice to both

 the parties rather than leaning in favour of one side. This

 conduct on the part of the learned Trial Court gives an

 indication of biased attitude of the Court towards the accused.
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 69/84 Every trial began with a presumption of innocence in favour of

 the accused and the provision of the Cr.P.C . are so framed that

 the criminal trial should begin with and be throughout governed

 by this essential presumption. 42. Fair trial obviously means a trial before the

 impartial Judge which precisely means that the Court should be

 bias free while judging the matter. In the case in hand, in view

 of aforestated facts depicting conduct of the trial, it is

 reasonable on the part of the accused to infer bias. The learned

 Trial Court on two occasions by giving complete go-by to the

 mandatory procedural law had acceded to the request of the

 Investigator P.W.5 Anima Kumari and ventured to record

 evidence of prosecution witnesses on the day on which police

 papers were supplied to the learned Advocate for the accused

 and when the accused had no opportunity to go through those

 police papers and to impart instructions to his Advocate.

 Learned Trial Court on each stage of the trial was giving

 complete go by to the mandatory procedure prescribed by the Cr.P.C . by making it the part of record that for giving justice to

 the victim, this course of conduct is necessary. Total obliviation

 was shown to the procedural law as well as the concept of fair

 trial by the learned Trial Court despite reiterating in the order
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 70/84 sheets maxims such as "Justice hurried-Justice buried" and

 "Justice Delayed is Justice Denied". 43. At this juncture, it needs to mention here that in

 the matter of M.V.Ganesh Prasad v. M.L.Vasudevamurthy &

 Ors. reported in AIR 2003 SC 39, the Supreme Court has

 observed that it must be kept in mind that the apprehension of

 bias on the part of a litigant should be a 'bona fide, reasonable

 apprehension and not a mere apprehension of the litigant. What

 amounts to bias is aptly explained by the Supreme Court in Ranjit Thakur v. Union of India reported in (1987) 4 SCC 611.

 Paragraphs 16 to 21 of that Judgment needs to be quoted for

 proper adjudication of the case in hand. Those read thus : 19. In Metropolitan Properties Co. (F.G.C.) Ltd. v. Lannon, [1969] 1 Q.B. 577,
 599, Lord Denning M.R. Observed: 20. Frankfurter, J. in Public Utilities
 Commission of the District of Columbia Vs.
 Pollack (343 US 451 at 466-67 : 96 L ed 1068,
 1079) : From bare perusal of the law laid down by the

 Supreme Court, it is clear that the Court is expected to use arm

 chair of the litigant in order to determine the apprehension and

 likelihood of bias. Natural justice is a sense of what is wrong

 and what is right. What is relevant is not to look into its own

 mind, but to look into the mind of the litigant to consider

 whether such litigant feels that the Judge is biased against him

 and that he may not get justice at the hands of that Judge. If

 answer to this is in affirmative then genuine case of bias can be

 said to be established, having regards to other attending

 circumstances. In the case in hand, the accused was not given

 any opportunity to go through the police papers, he was

 throughout in incommunicado state having no means to even

 contact his Advocate for briefing him. He had no opportunity

 even to read the charge sheet comprising of paper of

 investigation till the end of the trial. His two oral and one

 written application for adjournment were refused by not even

 granting him chance to adduce defence evidence despite raising

 plea of alibi by him. Evidence in the case was recorded in his

 absence. Relevant Provisions of the Cr.P.C . were flouted with
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 75/84 impunity while conducting the trial. In such situation, it is not

 possible to infer that the accused was fairly dealt with by an

 unbiased Judge in an atmosphere of judicial calm. 44. There is no doubt that at the minimum the

 courts must not take any decisions without affording all parties a

 meaningful opportunity of hearing, and every decision by a

 judge must rest on sound legal reasoning. The due process of

 law must not be compromised in any attempt at providing

 speedy justice. What is still more important for ensuring the due

 process of law is that, firstly, the procedure provided by law

 must be such as to advance the cause of substantial and

 complete justice, and, secondly, the procedure so laid down is

 duly followed by the courts in administering justice. While a

 judge could do away with a technicality coming in the way of

 substantial justice, the entire procedure governing a civil or

 criminal proceeding should not be considered a mere formality

 or technicality. Because once you start belittling the significance

 of procedure your ability to appreciate its relevance and value to

 the administration of justice and resultantly your interest and

 respect for the procedure would start declining. It would not be

 surprising if you start disregarding the procedure considering it

 yet another impediment in the way of justice and wastage of the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 76/84 courts time which eventually will lead to a disastrous situation.

 It is interesting that there is a saying in Arabic to the effect that

 'haste is from shaitaan'. In formulating and effecting the justice

 system, the judges should be made more efficient to be able to

 deliver justice in a timely and not a hurried manner. The Trial

 Courts are expected to remind themselves of the intent of

 legislature behind legislating such an exhaustive and elaborate

 procedure to conduct Trials keeping in mind every aspect with

 respect to fairness to both victim and accused. There is a

 scientific research and study done by the legislators before

 legislating any act and the court must adhere to it in a

 reasonable manner by keeping in mind the overall practical

 difficulties and societal changes. The courts are not expected to

 be either hyper technical or to completely wash away and

 surpass the procedure, as is done in the instant case. 45. For these reasons, there is no alternative but

 to hold that the learned Trial Court failed to follow due

 procedure of law while convicting the accused and imposing

 him death penalty and has also failed to act neutrally while

 conducting the trial. The accused is justified in apprehending

 that justice is not done to him and because of flagrant violation

 of the principles of natural justice and blatant disregard to the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 77/84 mandatory statuary provisions of the Cr.P.C . as well as the Rules

 framed thereunder. This apprehension is ultimately found to be

 reasonable, genuine and justifiable by us. In the light of facts

 emerging from the record of the Trial Court and noted by us in

 foregoing paras, we feel that consciously the learned Trial Court

 was prejudiced in the matter, may be as a result of

 predetermination to decide the case in a particular manner and

 in a record breaking time frame by disregarding the law

 crystallized by the procedural Code as well as abovenoted

 judgments of the Supreme Court. No doubt, the trial was over

 in a record breaking time but that was at the cost of

 compromising fair trial by breach of mandatory procedure

 prescribed by law and victimizing the cause of justice. 46. We may give one more instance from the

 evidence on record and the resultant Judgment declared

 instantaneously which would show that the learned Trial Court

 in a hurry to dispose of the trial has failed to do real and

 substantial justice. 47. The learned Trial Court, by the impugned

 judgment had convicted the accused of the offence punishable

 under Section 3(2)(v) of the Prevention of Atrocities Act.

 Because of this conviction in addition to death penalty, the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 78/84 accused is directed to suffer imprisonment for life and to pay a

 fine of rupees ten thousand. Relevant portion of Section 3 of

 the Prevention of Atrocities Act reads thus:- This section prescribes enhanced punishment with regard to the

 offence under the IPC punishable with imprisonment for a term

 of ten years or more committed against a person or property

 knowing that the victim is a member of a Scheduled Caste or a

 Scheduled Tribe. Following are the observations of the Supreme

 Court in the matter of Khunam Singh Vs. State of Madhya
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 79/84 Pradesh reported in 2019 (4) PLJR 130, found in paragraph-

 13: As held by the Supreme

 Court, the offence must be such as to attract

 the offence under Section 3(2)(v) of the Act. Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 80/84 The offence must have been committed

 against the person on the ground that such

 person is a member of Scheduled Caste and

 Scheduled Tribe. In the present case, the

 fact that the deceased was belonging to

 "Khangar"-Scheduled Caste is not disputed. There is no evidence to show that the

 offence was committed only on the ground

 that the victim was a member of the

 Scheduled Caste and therefore, the

 conviction of the appellant-accused under Section 3(2)(v) of the Scheduled Castes and

 Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities)

 Act is not sustainable." In the case in hand, there is no iota of evidence

 on the record of the learned Trial Court to show that PW 2, the

 victim female child was either belonging to any Scheduled

 Caste or any Scheduled Tribe. Entire evidence adduced by the

 prosecution is conspicuously silent on this fact. Therefore, while

 recording the statement of the accused under Section 313 of the

 Cr.P.C., he was not questioned on this aspect by the learned

 Trial Court. We seriously believe that as the impugned
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 81/84 judgment is shown to have been prepared and delivered within a

 short time of 40 minutes immediately after hearing arguments,

 the learned Trial Court could not have noticed this aspect. He,

 however, went on to observe in para-20 of the impugned

 judgment that the accused was aware of the fact that the victim

 belongs to Scheduled Caste community and the accused had

 knowledge of this fact being the villager and neighbour. This

 finding of the learned Trial Court is wholly perverse in the wake

 of the fact that there is no evidence in the entire record and

 proceedings of the learned Trial Court to show that the victim

 female child belongs to any Scheduled Caste and that the

 accused was aware of this fact. Thus, while fast tracking the

 case, ends of justice came to be perverted. 48. The manner in which the trial was

 commenced, conducted and concluded clearly displays and

 demonstrates glaring abuse and misuse of judicial power by

 learned Trial Court, while exercising judicial function. In view

 of foregoing reasons, we are unable to concur with the

 impugned judgment and order of the learned Trial Court. It

 deserves to be quashed and set aside. There is no alternative but

 to direct for De-novo Trial of the accused from the stage before

 framing of charge as breach of mandatory provisions of law
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 82/84 commenced before framing of the charge causing miscarriage of

 justice. 49. We do not wish to burden this lengthy

 Judgment with other authorities cited by the learned Senior

 Advocate for the appellant as those are not furthering the cause

 of the appellant. Main contention on behalf of the accused is no

 opportunity to adduce defence evidence is given to him. The

 ratio of Judgment in the case of David (Supra) is that the

 accused is not obliged to produce defence evidence. This

 proposition, in the instant case cannot be of any assistance to the

 appellant. Similarly, we have dealt with the aspect of breach of

 principles of natural Justice in the light of facts of the instant

 case. Hence case of Shambhunath (supra) has no application to

 the instant case. 50. In the light of the view which we have taken

 while deciding the instant matter, it is not necessary to go into

 the merits of the case in order to find out whether the

 prosecution is successful in proving the guilt of the accused or

 not. We, therefore, refuse to dwell upon merits of the matter. 51. As we have dealt with the issue of procedural

 fairness while conducting the trial, we direct the learned

 Registrar General of this Court to circulate this Judgment to the
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 83/84 Judicial Officers in the District Judiciary of the State of Bihar. 52. Hence, the following order:- 53. We record our deep sense of appreciation for

 the valuable assistance rendered by Mr. Prince Kumar Mishra,

 the learned Amicus Curiae. We direct the Patna High Court
 Patna High Court D. REF. No.1 of 2022 dt.16-08-2022 84/84 Legal Services Committee to pay an amount of Rs.10,000/- (Ten

 Thousand) to Mr. Prince Kumar Mishra, learned Amicus Curiae,

 as consolidated fee for the assistance rendered by him to the

 Court in the present appeal. (A. M. Badar, J)

 (Rajesh Kumar Verma, J)
P.S./Mkr./Bhardwaj/-