1. The case of the prosecution arises out of complaint dt.
06.04.2013 by security guard Deepak Sharma that on said date at about 1
am a lady entered labour room in the main hospital and told the duty
doctor that she had to inspect the working of labour room as she has been
directed by Delhi Government to carry out the inspection of labour room.
At that time she was wearing mask and had put stethoscope on her neck
the doctor on duty got suspicious and asked for the ID card. The said lady
showed ID Card issued by AIIMS which was fake. The security guard on
duty was informed and the lady was handed over to the police. Her name
was disclosed as Sonu Sharma. The ID card recovered from her had
photograph of that lady and on the top Akhil Bhartiya Ayurvedic
Sansthan was written. On the basis of complaint FIR was registered in the
case. Site plan was prepared at the instance of complainant. From the
hands of the accused ID Card of AIIMS was seized vide seizure memo in
which her designation was stated as SR Specialist in Gynecologist having
her photograph. Her wearing court and stethoscope was also seized. Her
disclosure statement was also recorded. Statement u/s 161 CrPC of
witnesses were also recorded. The ID card sezied from her was found
fake. After completing the investigation, charge-sheet was filed against
accused. Cognizance of the same was taken. Framing of charge 2. After compliance of Section 207 Cr.P.C., vide order dated
03.07.2017 charge was framed against accused Sonu Sharma for the State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.2 of 17
 offence u/s 419 r/w 511 IPC and u/s 471 IPC to which the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Prosecution Evidence 3. In support of its case, the prosecution had examined 8
witnesses. PW1 is Deepak Kumar, PW2 is Savita Devi, PW3 is SI
Rajender Singh, PW4 is Dr. Tsering Wangdi, PW5 is SI Harpal, PW6 is
WHC Poonam, PW7 is Ct. Ram Ratan and PW8 is Insp. Sanjay Sharma. 4. PW1 Deepak Kumar had deposed in his testimony that on
06.04.2013 he was posted as Security officer at AIIMS Hospital, New
Delhi. He had further deposed that at about 01:00 am (night) he was
informed by the security staff that one lady entered the labour room and
she introduced herself as a doctor and she was deputed by Delhi Govt for
checking the functioning of labour room. He had further deposed that she
was also wearing mask and carrying stethoscope at that time. He had
further deposed that thereafter Duty doctor told her to produce her
identity card. He had further deposed that thereafter she produced one
fake identity card of AIIMS Doctor. He had further deposed that
thereafter Duty Doctor called the security staff and handed over that lady
for further interrogation and appropriate action and her name was
revealed as Sonu. He had further deposed that thereafter, police officials
were called and her custody and fake ID card handed over to police
officials. He had further deposed that thereafter he gave a complaint to
police officials for registration of FIR Ex. PWI/A. He had further deposed
that after registration of FIR, IO interrogated accused and record ed State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.3 of 17
 disclosure statement in his presence Ex. PW1/B. He had further deposed
that IO seized Identity card (AIIMS) of accused vide seizure memo as Ex.
PWI/C. He had further deposed that IO also seized your another fake ID
card vide seizure memo Ex. PW1/D and IO also seized and prepared
pullanda of stethoscope and mask vide seizure memo as Ex. PW1/E.
Witness correctly identified the accused as well as the case property
Ex.P1, Ex.P2, Ex.P3 and Ex.P4. 5. PW2 Savita Devi had deposed in his testimony that on
intervening night of 05/06.04.2013 at about 01:00 am (night) accused
came at labour room, AIIMS and introduced herself as a doctor and
accused was deputed for checking of labour room at AIIMS hospital by
Delhi Government. She had further deposed that thereafter duty doctor
Dr. Tsering Wnagdi, Sr. Resident came and told accused to produce her
Identity card thereafter accused produced her fake identity card of AIIMS
hospital. She had further deposed that thereafter other security staff was
called and handed over accused's custody as well as fake ID card to them.
She had further deposed that another fake ID card was recovered from the
possession of the accused. She had further deposed that thereafter police
officers came and they were interrogated accused and thereafter she was
arrested and the case property i.e. fake ID card, stethoscope and mask
were seized by the IO. Witness correctly identified the accused as well as
the case property Ex.P1, Ex.P2, Ex.P3 and Ex.P4. 6. PW3 SI Rajender Singh had deposed in his testimony that
on 06.04.2013 at about 4:15 AM, he received the Rukka from constable
Ram Ratan which was send by SI Harpal. He had further deposed that State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.4 of 17
 thereafter, he endorsed the Rukka which is Ex.PW3/A and lodged the FIR
which is as Ex.PW3/B and same were handed over to constable to Ram
Ratan and further investigation was marked to SI Sanjay by the order of
concerned SHO and the information was forwarded to SI Sanjay. 7. PW4 Dr. Tsering Wangdi had deposed in his testimony that
on the intervening night of 5-6 April, 2013 he was working as Senior
Resident, in gyne department AIIMS hospital and at about 01 am security
guard on duty namely Savita Devi had produced a female who was
wearing doctor's apron stethoscope and was claiming to be a doctor in
gyne department. He had further deposed that since he was working in
the gyne department he could make out that she was not telling the truth.
He asked her for her ID card and she produced the same. He had further
deposed that when he saw her ID card he was suspicious that it was not
genuine. He had further deposed that he informed the security officer
Deepak Kumar about the aforesaid incident. Deepak Kumar informed the
police and handed over the accused to the police. The witness had
correctly identified the accused as well as the attested copy of the ID card
produced by accused Ex.P1. 8. PW5 SI Harpal Singh had deposed in his testimony that on
6.04.2013 he was marked the call pertaining to apprehension of a person
alongwith fake ID card. He had further deposed that he alongwith Ct.
Ram Ratan went to AIIMS hospital where Ct. Poonam had also reached
from the PS. There they met the security officer Deepak Kumar and one
female security guard. He had further deposed that they produced accused
before him. He had further deposed that the security officer also preferred State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.5 of 17
 a written complaint vide Ex.PW1/A. He had further deposed that he
prepared the tehrir on the same vide Ex.PW5/A. He had further deposed
that he handed over the same to Ct. Ram Ratan for registration of FIR. He
had further deposed that Ct. Ram Ratan went to PS and got the FIR
registered and returned back alongwith copy of original tehrir and copy of
FIR alongwith SI Sanjay. He had further deposed that upon the orders of
the SHO further investigation was transfered to SI Sanjay. PW7 Ct. Ram
Ratan had also deposed the same. Witness had correctly identified the
accused. 9. PW6 WHC Poonam had deposed in her testimony that on
07.04.2013 accused Sonu was taken out from the lockup. She had further
deposed that accused had disclosed few locations. She had further
deposed that she alongwith SI Sanjay went to Kalkaji and Munirka at the
instance of accused. She had further deposed that at Kalkaji nothing was
found. She had further deposed that at Munirka your friend Varsha was
present who had the keys of the house. She had further deposed that IO
got the door opened from Varsha where a mobile phone (dual sim) was
found. She had further deposed that the same was seized vide seizure
memo Ex.PW6/A. She had further deposed that disclosure statement of
accused was recorded vide Ex.PW6/B. She had further deposed that she
got medical of accused done and thereafter was detained in the Lockup at
PS Hauz Khas. She had further deposed that IO recorded her statement in
this regard. Witness had correctly identified the accused. 10. PW8 Insp. Sanjay Sharma had deposed in his testimony
that on 06.04.2013 the present case was marked to him. He had further State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.6 of 17
 deposed that thereafter he reached at C-3 Ward, third floor, Gyne
Department, AIIMS, New Delhi where he met SI Harpal, W.Ct. Poonam,
Deepak Kumar (security officer AIIMS), Lady security guard Savita,
some doctor and official staff. He had further deposed that they handed
over him the accused, it was told by the security officer that accused was
carrying fake ID card of doctor, mask and stethoscope. He had further
deposed that upon suspicion accused was stopped and apprehended by
security staff and it was found that accused was not the doctor and
thereafter police was called. He had further deposed that during
interrogation accused disclosed her name as Sonu Sharma and could not
give the satisfactory answer regarding the above said conduct. He had
further deposed that thereafter accused was arrested by him vide arrest
memo Ex.PW8/A. He had further deposed that thereafter accused was
personally searched by W. Ct. Poonam in his presence and he prepared
the personal search memo vide Ex.PW8/B. He had further deposed that
all articles of personal search memo put in white pullinda and sealed with
the seal of 'SS'. He had further deposed that he also recorded disclosure
statement of accused Ex.PW1/B and thereafter, he seized the abovesaid
fake ID card vide seizure memo Ex.PW1/C. He had further deposed that
during personal they also found another ID card from her coat with
description (REGD. MEDI. PRACT. JAN KALYAN ASSO. NEW
DELHI) and he also seized the same vide seizure memo Ex.PW1/D . He
also seized stethoscope vide seizure memo Ex.PW1/E. He had further
deposed that he seized abovementioned stethoscope and the mask with
the seal of 'SS'. He had further deposed that thereafter accused was sent
for medical examination and case property was deposited in the
malkhana. He also recorded the statement of witnesses u/s 161 Cr.P.C. He had further deposed that on 07.04.2013 he conducted the detailed
interrogation from accused and disclosed that fake ID card was given to
her by her friend namely Shalini and she was unaware about her address.
He had further deposed that accused further told them that accused had 7
year old son and the son was in custody of her friend namely Varsha. He
had further deposed that during interrogation it was found that accused
disclosed her address earlier was false as accused was resident of
Munirka. 11. PW Insp. Sanjay had further deposed that thereafter he
along with W. Ct Poonam went to accused friend's address i.e. H.No.
A294, Munirka and at the said address they met accused's friend Varsha
alongwith 7 year old son and it was found that 7 year old baby was her
son. He further deposed that accused took the key of her house from her
friend Varsha and they went to her house which was situated near the
house of her friend Varsha and her house no. was 216D/1/4, Munirka. He
further deposed that during investigation they found a mobile phone from
her house and the said mobile phone was containing two sim cards.
Another sim card was also there in her house. He had further deposed that
he inspected said mobile phone and he checked dialed list and found one
person namely Rahul was dialed by accused. He further deposed that he
seized mobile phone and sim card vide seizure memo Ex.PW6/A. He
further deposed that they asked from accused regarding her relatives and
accused told that accused did not have any relatives and with her consent
they sent child at Butterfly NGO, Udai Park. He had further deposed that
thereafter he also recorded her supplementary statement Ex.PW6/B and
thereafter they also tried to search for accused's friend namely Shalini

State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.8 of 17
 who provided accused's fake ID card but they could not find after so
many efforts. He had further deposed that the case property was
deposited in the malkhana of PS and he recorded the statement of W.Ct.
Poonam and accused was detained in lockup. He had further deposed that
on 08.04.2013 accused's son was produced before CWC. He had further
deposed that thereafter he called on the number which was found on
accused's mobile and it was found that the person name was not Rahul
and his name was Raju and he was accused's husband. He had further
deposed that thereafter he sent notice u/s 91 Cr.P.C. to AIIMS for
verification of said ID card which was recovered from accused vide
Ex.PW8/C. He had further deposed that on 06.05.2013 they received the
letter from AIIMS hospital which is Ex.PW8/D. He had further deposed
that it was told by AIIMS hospital via letter that this is to certify that the
said fake ID card was not issued from the office of AIIMS. He had
further deposed that during investigation they also went to Pilanji Village
upon the address which was written on the fake ID card. He had further
deposed that after reaching there they found that the address was not
correct upon the said fake ID card as she was resident of H.No. 135,
Pilanji Village and the address written on the said fake ID card was
H.No. 137, Pilanji Village. He had further deposed that he also recorded
the statement of landlord namely Rambir u/s 161 Cr.P.C. He had further
deposed that the said landlord told them that accused used to run a doctor
clinic on his shop in the year 2004-05. He had further deposed that the
landlord also told them that accused used to tell them that accused is
doctor by profession. Witness had correctly identified the accused. 12. The examination of accused u/s 313 r/w 281 Cr.P.C . was
recorded in which she stated that she is innocent. She has been falsely
implicated in the case. She has nothing to do with the present case. 13. Accused had not led defence evidence. Thereafter the
matter was fixed for final arguments. 14. Final arguments addressed by the Ld. APP for State and Ld.
Counsel for accused were heard and case file was perused. 15. It is argued on behalf of the Ld. APP for the State that there
is sufficient material available against the accused that she was
impersonating as a doctor wearing white apron and representing herself
as doctor of Gynecologist. Further the ID card shown by her was found to
be fake. Thus, it is a fit case of conviction. 16. It is argued on behalf of accused that the incident pertains
to 06.04.2013 and according to prosecution story Deepak Kumar and
Savita Devi had caught her with fake ID in AIIMS hospital. No public
witness has been examined in the case. There is no CCTV footage in the
case. In the ID card instead of Sonu Sharma, 'Soun Sharma' is written.
All witnesses had made different versions. Investigation is incomplete in
the present matter who made the card and from where the card was came
nothing was investigated. It is further argued that no recovery was made
from the accused. Accused is falsely implicated int he case. Thus
State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.10 of 17
 prosecution had failed to prove its case. 17. Section 416 IPC defines Cheating by personation. A person
is said to "cheat by personation" if he cheats by pretending to be some
other person, or by knowingly substituting one person for another, or
representing that he or any other person is a person other than he or such
other person really is. Forgery is defined under Section 463 of Indian Penal Code.
The section reads as "Whosoever makes any fake document or incorrect
electronic record or part of a document with an intention to cause damage
or injury, to the public or to any person, or to support any claim or title,
or to cause any person to share with property, or to enter into any express
or implied contract, or with purpose to commit fraud or that fraud may be
accomplished, commits forgery." In order to constitute forgery, the first essential is that- with an intention to cause harm or injury to the public or to any class of
society or to any community. 18. 'False document' is dealt under section 464 IPC. The
definition of "false document" is a part of the definition of "forgery".
Both must be read together. An analysis of section 464 of Indian Penal
Code shows that it divides false documents into three categories: 19. Section 471 IPC prescribes punishment for 'using forged
document'. According to the said section using a forged document as
genuine is a cognizable offence. It states that 'whoever fraudulently or
dishonestly accepts as the genuine document which he knows or has
ground to believe to be a forged document, shall be punished in the
corresponding manner as if he had forged such document.' 20. Cheating by personation is made punishable under section
419 IPC. A reading of section 415 IPC together with section 416 IPC
makes it clear that though cheating has two different forms, viz, cheating
and cheating by personation. Cheating by personation has been made a
distinct offence because the person not only cheats but he does so by State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.12 of 17
 pretending to be some other person, or by knowingly substituting one
person for another, or representing that he or any other person is a person
other than he or such other person really is. False personation consists of
personating another, or by knowingly substituting another person and
pretending to be that other person and representing that other person.
Personation by itself is not an offence but when a person fraudulently and
dishonestly does a fraudulent act and represents as if he is himself that
other person, section 416 IPC will be attracted. 21. The case of the prosecution is that accused attempted to
cheat by personation as an inspecting officer from Delhi Government.
Further forged ID card of AIIMS doctor was also used by her. In this
regard PW-1 Deepak Kumar who is the security officer at AIIMS hospital
had deposed that he was informed by security staff by one lady had
entered the labour room and she was deputed by Delhi Government for
checking the functional of labour room. She was wearing mask and
carrying the stethoscope at that time. When duty doctor told her to
produce ID she produced one fake ID card of AIIMS hospital. He made
the complaint to police officials which is Ex. PW1/A. The witness has
duly identified the accused as person who was handed over to him for
further interrogation and appropriate action. Thus, the witness has duly
proved his complaint Ex. PW1/A. 22. PW-2 Savita Devi who was posted as Security guard at
AIIMS hospital at labour room is the most material witness in the present
case. She had deposed that on 06.04.2013 at about 1 am accused came at
the labour room AIIMS and introduced herself as a doctor and she was State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.13 of 17
 deputed for checking of labour room at AIIMS hospital by Delhi
Government. Thereafter, duty doctor Tsering Wnagdi Senior resident
came and told accused to produce ID Card and thereafter, accused has
produced fake ID card of AIIMS hospital. Thereafter, other staff was
called and custody of accused was handed over to them alongwith fake
ID card. She duly identified the fake ID card bearing no. SR/280/04 in the
name of Dr. Soun Sharma, SR. Specialist in gynecology in AIIMS
Hospital and another ID card bearing no. 95 of registered as medical
practitioner, Jan Kalyan Association New Delhi reflecting the name of
Dr. Sonu Sharma. She duly identified accused as the one who represented
herself as doctor. She duly identified the stethoscope recovered from
accused. Her version has remained consistent and uncontroverted in the
cross-examination. Thus she had proved that accused was impersonating
as doctor at the time of alleged incident that she was deputed for checking
the labour room at AIIMS hospital by Delhi Government. 23. PW-4 Dr. Tsering Wnagdi had also duly corroborated the
version of PW-2 Savita Devi. She had also deposed that in the
intervening night of 5-6.042013 at about 1 am security guard on duty
Savita Devi produced the female who was wearing doctor's apron and
stethoscope and was claiming to be doctor in gyne department. She also
deposed that when she asked her for her ID card she produced the same
which was not genuine. And therefore, she informed Deepak Kumar,
Security officer for the same. In her cross-examination, she admitted that
she had not apprehended the accused and the accused was caught by
security guard Savita. She has seen the face of accused at the time of
alleged incident after her mask was removed. Thus, her testimony shows State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.14 of 17
 that accused was the one who was impersonating as a doctor. Further, the
testimony of witness also shows that accused was wearing stethoscope
and doctor's apron at the time she was apprehended. Further, she had also
proved that forged ID was shown by her. There is no disbelieve of
testimony of the said witness. Her version remain uncontroverted in the
cross-examination. 24. According to IO, PW-8 Inspector Sanjay Sharma, on
07.04.2013, when he conducted the detailed interrogation from accused
she disclosed that the false ID card was given to her by her friend Shalini.
They tried to search for her friend Shalini but they could not found her
despite best efforts. He had also deposed that he send a notice u/s 91 CrPC to AIIMS for verification of said ID card which was recovered
from accused vide notice Ex. PW8/C. On 06.05.2013, they received the
letter from AIIMS hospital Ex. PW8/D that the said fake ID card were
not issued from their office. Thus, letter dated Ex. PW8/D of AIIMS
hospital received from AIIMS hospital shows that the ID card recovered
from accused which was seized vide Ex. PWC1/C was false and
fabricated one. 25. The bear perusal of fake ID card seized vide memo Ex.
PW1/C shows that a photograph of accused is affixed on the ID card and
the name is written as Dr. Soun Sharma. Further, on the top of it Akhil
Bhartiya Sansthan with designation Senior Specialist in Gynecologist
written in it. There is no reason why accused was carrying the forged ID
card. The very fact that accused was present in near the labour room
wearing doctors apron and stethoscope shows that she was attempting to State Vs. Sonu Sharma FIR No. : 132/2013 PS Hauz Khas
U/s 419/511/471 IPC Page no.15 of 17
 impersonate as doctor at the time of alleged incident. There is no reason
on record why accused was roaming around the labour room of gyne
department wearing doctors apron and stethoscope on said date. Further,
the fact that on being questioned by Dr. Tsering Wnagdi, she produced
fake ID card of AIIMS hospital shows that she had attempted to
impersonate as doctor. Further, the fact that ID card seized vide seizure
memo Ex. PW1/C was not issued by AIIMS, proves that the accused was
using the false ID card as a genuine one to prove her identity as a doctor. 26. It is the contention of ld. Counsel for accused that no public
witness is examined in the case. In this regard it is worth mentioning that
the testimony of PW2 Sarita Devi and PW4 Dr. Tsering Wnagdi is
consistent in this regard that accused was found wearing doctor's apron
and stethoscope near the gyne department and she had shown fake ID
card of AIIMS hospital. The testimony of both the witnesses appears to
be as good as public witness. There is no reason to doubt their version.
Thus, failure to examine public witness will not discredit their testimony
which appears to be otherwise reliable. 27. It is also the contention of ld. Counsel for accused that in
the ID alleged to be recovered from accused, instead of Sonu Sharma,
"Soun Sharma" is mentioned. In this regard, it is note worthy to mention
that the ID card of AIIMS hospital recovered from accused bears the
photographs of accused. Even though Soun Sharma is written on it but
the very fact that the ID card bears photographs of complainant is in itself
sufficient to show that accused intended to impersonate as a doctor and
deceitfully used the fake ID. 28. It is well settled that in a criminal trial the burden of proof
is on the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Any
contradiction or iota of proof in favour of accused can completely
dismantle the case of prosecution. In the present case there are cogent
material available on record to suggest that accused had attempted to
impersonate herself as a doctor. Further, she was found using forged ID
card as a genuine one. Conclusion & Decision 29. In the absence of any cogent evidence and in view of the
aforementioned discussion, it is concluded that the prosecution has
proved its allegations beyond reasonable doubt. Thus, accused is
convicted u/s 419 r/w 511 IPC and also u/s 471 IPC. Accused be heard on
point of sentence separately.