(2) At any time after the person is charged, the prosecutor or
 defendant may apply to a Judge for an order (a) Excusing the applicant from disclosing to the other party prior
 to the preliminary hearing the name, address and occupation of
 any witness (except with the leave of the Judge), any other
 particulars likely to lead to the witness's identification; and (b) Excusing the witness from stating at the preliminary hearing
 his or her name, address and occupation and (except with leave
 of the Judge) any other particulars likely to lead to the
 witness's identification. Further, at the pre-trial stage, section 13B(3) states that the hearing must be
in chambers and the Court must hear both sides and the identity shall, of
course, be disclosed to the Judge. Sec 13B(3) states as follows: Analysing the same, it is clear that in New Zealand, the procedure at
the pre-trial stage, (i.e. after the accused is charged of the offence), required
that an application for anonymity be filed by the prosecutor for granting
anonymity prior to the preliminary hearing and also for exempting the
witness from stating his identity at the preliminary hearing. The Judge has
to hear the matter in chambers and give an opportunity to the applicant
(prosecution) as well as to the accused. The prosecutor and the witness
need disclose identity of witnesses only to the Judge and none others. The
section as it is drafted there applies even to an application for anonymity of
a defence witness. If the prosecution files an application for grant of
anonymity in respect of a witness at the pre-trial stage, it is obvious that 104 before the application is taken up for hearing in chambers, the witness's
identity must not be disclosed to the accused. Otherwise, the very purpose
of the application is lost. Once the Judge deals with the application of the
prosecution in chambers as above stated, he has to pass an order under sec
13B(4) if the Judge believes that there are 'reasonable' grounds that

 "(a) the safety of the witness or of any other person is likely to be
 endangered or there is likely to be serious damage to property, if the
 witness's identity is disclosed prior to trial; and (b) withholding the witness's identity until the trial would not be
 contrary to the interests of justice." This in New Zealand is the role of the Judge at the pre-trial preliminary
hearing application filed by the prosecution. But the Judge has some more
duties. The Judge, as stated in sec 13B(5), has to have regard to six other
factors: and (b) the principle that witness anonymity orders are justified only in
 exceptional circumstances; and (c) the gravity of the offence; and (d) the importance of the witness's evidence to the case of the party
 who wishes to call the witness; and (e) whether it is practical for the witness to be protected prior to the
 trial by any other means; and 105 (f) whether there is other evidence which corroborates the witness's
 evidence." If the Court at the pre-trial stage grants anonymity, then under sec 13B
 (6), the following consequences follow, namely: Similarly, in New Zealand, sec 13C provides for an order at the trial and
virtually the same procedure under sec 13B is incorporated in sec 13C also.
We do not propose to extract sec 13C provisions again. It will be clear that subsection (6) of sec 13B and subsection (6) of
sec 13C ensure that, even after trial, the anonymity continues. Section 13J creates offences for intentional breach of the provision of
sec 13B and 13C and we recommend the same to be adopted. Chapter VIII

 Stage at which identity of witness has to be protected - investigation, pre-trial or trial and post-trial

 The next important question that has to be considered is as to the
stage at which the witness identity protection is to be granted in our country.
We must make it clear that our proposals in this Report deal only with
'serious offences', namely, those triable by a Sessions Court or equivalent
designated/Special Court. There is some distinction between protection to victims on the one
hand and witnesses on the other. (a) In several cases, the victims may be known to the
 accused but this is not an absolute rule. There may be
 cases where the victim may not be known to the accused
 such as a case in which there is an indiscriminate firing
 by the accused. There may be several such situations.
 There may also be cases where the victim and the
 accused are known to each other. (b) So far as witnesses other than victims are concerned, it is
 possible in most cases, that the accused does not know
 the witness. Barring close associates or eye-witnesses to
 the offence who may sometimes be known to the
 accused, most of the prosecution witnesses may
 generally be not known to the accused. It can also 108 happen that in the matter of serious offences, not only
 the life but the property of the witnesses or their relatives
 may be in grave danger if the witness identity becomes
 known to the accused during investigation or during the
 inquiry or before the commencement of trial. It is, therefore, necessary to deal separately with the stages of (A)
investigation; (B) inquiry; (C) trial; and (D) post trial. (A) Investigation: be filed along with the Report. Further sub-section (6) states as follows: (2) Again, under sec 164(6), the Magistrate recording a confession of the
accused or statement of a witness shall forward the same to the Magistrate
who inquires or tries the case. Therefore, these provisions relating to certain stages of investigation
show that the identity of witnesses may, unless protected, become known to
the accused i.e. at the stage of recording statements under sec 161 or sec
164 or at the stage of filing of the charge-sheet under sec 173 into the
Magistrate's Court. At these stages of investigation, protection of identity
may become necessary in some cases. The copies of the charge sheet, FIR, sec. 161 and 164 statements of
the persons and other documents, as stated above, have to be given to the
accused under sec 207 except where the Police under sec. 173(6) may
request that those portions of the statements which disclose the identity of
the witnesses be not granted. There may be a large number of cases where
the police officer has not made a request under sec. 173(6). As we propose to grant protection to witnesses in the cases of serious
offences, namely, offences triable by the Sessions Court, it is obvious that
even at the above stages of investigation adequate safeguards as to the non-
disclosure of identity of the witnesses has to be considered and granted by
the Magistrate. We have to devise a procedure and confer statutory power
on these courts. Procedure for 'Preliminary inquiry' for granting anonymity during
Investigation: We are proposing to provide such a procedure for seeking witness
identity protection at the stage of investigation, by way of an application to
be presented to the Magistrate under sections 4 , 5 and 6 of the Draft Bill
attached to this Report. This is so far as investigation is concerned. (B) Preliminary inquiry during Inquiry as provided in Ch. 14 to Ch. 16
before the Magistrate: Section 208 likewise refers to supply of copies of statements and
documents to accused in other cases triable by a Court of Session. (b) A preliminary hearing has to be conducted by the Magistrate or the
Session Judge, in camera, but it will be necessary to hear the accused. We 113 are proposing that the accused may be heard separately and not in the
presence of the victim or witness who are not known to the accused. (c) In as much as, during the course of investigation, when the Police
applies through the public prosecutor before the Magistrate for a
preliminary order granting anonymity, the accused is not given a hearing, it
is necessary, in our opinion, that at the stage of inquiry, there should be a
fresh preliminary hearing, even in respect of the same witness, for the
purpose of granting anonymity at the stage the witness gives evidence at the
regular trial. This is because, in the preliminary inquiry now conducted
(i.e. the preliminary inquiry after investigation), the accused will have to be
heard on the question of granting anonymity to the witness. Whenever such an application is made after commencement of
inquiry, the Magistrate has to conduct a preliminary or voir dire inquiry as
to whether the witness's life or property or that of his relatives is in danger.
An in camera hearing is necessary. As to how this will be conducted will be
explained in the next chapter. Where during Inquiry, the Magistrate grants an anonymity order, it
will ensure for the subsequent stages including trial and thereafter. We are providing the procedure in sections 8 to 11 which covers the
preliminary inquiry procedure at the stage of Inquiry and before
commencement of recording evidence at the trial. (C) Preliminary inquiry before the Sessions Judge before commencement
 of recording statement of witnesses in Sessions Court: The procedure at the trial is proposed in sec. 12 and Schedule 1of
 the proposed Bill. (iii) So far as victims who are known to the accused and who have not
 sought anonymity and victims who have been refused a protection
 order, but whose trauma has to be taken care of, the evidence at
 the trial will be by use of a two-way close-circuit television or
 video-link and two-way audio system so that the victim need not
 depose in the immediate presence of the accused for otherwise he
 may face trauma. This procedure is proposed in sec. 13 read with Schedule 2 of the
 proposed Bill. Chapter IX

 Two-way closed-circuit television for examining the
 victim and witnesses during trial in the Sessions Court

 We shall now refer to the procedure of closed circuit television or
video link, to which we have referred to earlier. That procedure can be
followed at the trial by the Sessions Court in respect of witnesses or victims
who have earlier obtained witness protection orders during investigation or
inquiry or before commencement of recording of evidence at the trial. So far 'screening or closed-circuit television' is not part of the Code of
Criminal Procedure , 1973 or special Acts: For the first time, before the Law Commission when it was preparing
the 172nd Report (2000) (as stated earlier) in the case of child abuse or
sexual offences there was a request for incorporating provisions such as (i) video taped interview of the child, (ii) via closed-circuit television testimony or giving evidence from
 behind a screen. But the Law Commission accepted the 'screening' method. In the
draft amendment, it however, did not use the word 'screening' but proposed
insertion of a general proviso in sec. 273 which stated: When the 172nd Report came up before the Supreme Court in Sakshi
v. Union of India , 2004 (6) SCALE 15, the Supreme Court referred to the
argument of the NGO, (Sakshi) before the Law Commission as stated
earlier. The Supreme Court accepted as admissible video-conferencing
method for purpose of hearing the victim or witnesses. Recording by way
of video-conferencing was accepted in view of the earlier judgment of the
Supreme Court in State of Maharashtra v. Dr. Praful B. Desai : 2003 (4) SCC
601(see para 31). It was stated that this was consistent with sec. 273 of the
Code. However, in the final directions, the Supreme Court suggested the
method of using a 'screen' or 'some such arrangement' (see para 32). The
Court also referred to the need for in camera proceedings as stated in sec.
327 of the Code. Praful B. Desai 's case was not a criminal case but was a civil case in
which one party wanted to examine a foreign medical expert. While
permitting video-conferencing, the Supreme Court relied upon Maryland v.
Craig (1990) 497 US 836 (which was a criminal case) to say that video-
conferencing evidence is admissible in evidence. In a case arising under the Consumer (Protection) Act, 1986 the
Supreme Court in J.J. Merchant v. Shrinath Chaturvedi : AIR 2002 SC 2931
stated that under that Act, the Commission could examine witnesses on
commission under sec. 13(4)(v) and that cross-examination could take place 120 by video-conferencing. The Supreme Court stated that affidavits could be
initially filed and,

 "if the cross-examination is sought for by the other side and the
 Commission finds it proper, it can easily evolve a procedure
 permitting the party who intends to cross-examine by putting certain
 questions in writing and those questions also could be replied by
 experts including doctors on affidavits. In case where stakes are very
 high and still party intends to cross-examine such doctors or experts,
 there can be video-conferences or asking questions by arranging
 telephone conference and at the initial stage, this cost should be borne
 by the person who claims the video-conference. Further cross-
 examination can be taken by the Commissioner appointed by it at the
 working place of such experts at a fixed time." In sum, so far as the criminal jurisdiction is concerned, there is, at the
moment, no provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 which
permits 'screening' or 'closed-circuit television'. In Sakshi, the Supreme
Court referred to screening and video-conferencing as acceptable
procedures but in the ultimate directions given by it, it used the words
'screening' or 'some other arrangement' and followed Praful B. Desai case. Praful B. Desai followed Maryland v. Craig. The Maryland Rules on closed-circuit television: It contemplates a preliminary hearing before regular trial. As to (a), scope of section, it is said that the section applies to a case
of child-abuse under Title 5, Subtitle 7 of the Family Law Article or sec.
3 .601 or sec. 3 .602 of the Criminal Law Code. As to (b), 'in general', it refers (i) to the preliminary hearing i.e. when
a Court decides if evidence in Court can result in the victim suffering such
emotional distress which will make the victim not reasonably communicate
and (ii) to the evidence taken during the proceedings (i.e. regular
proceeding). Clause (c) is important. It refers to 'determination by Court' i.e. the
preliminary hearing procedure. It contains sub-clause (1)(i) and (ii) and
sub-clause (2)(i) and (ii). Under sub-clause (1)(i), the Court may observe
and question the child victim inside or outside Courtroom and under sub-
clause (1)(ii), the Court may hear testimony of a parent or guardian and the
person who has dealt with the child in a therapeutic setting. Under sub-
clause (2), it is stated that when the Court decides the issue 'whether to
allow a child victim to testify by closed-circuit television, (i) each accused
can have one attorney in the Court along with the victims' attorney and the
prosecuting agency (i.e. neither victim nor the accused), and (ii) if the Court
decides to observe or question the child victim, the Court may not allow the
accused but the counsel for accused and the prosecuting agency and one
attorney for the victim will be present. Hence, under those Rules, at the preliminary hearing, the accused will
not be physically present though the counsel for accused will be present,
wherever the Court wants to observe or question the child victim. If the
Court decides in the preliminary hearing to use of closed-circuit television,
then under (d), the following procedure had to be followed: In addition, there would be a two-way audio connection between the
room where the victim and lawyers are stationed and the Courtroom where
the Judge and accused are present. INDIA: It is obvious that a common procedure can be evolved for (ii) and (iii)
where victims as well as witnesses are not known to the accused and a 126 separate procedure can be prescribed for (i) where victim is known to the
accused. (i) Victim known to the accused: So far as cases under (i) are concerned, where a victim is known to
the accused, there is no need to prevent the accused from seeing the victim.
But the witness has to be permitted to give evidence without facing the
accused if he claims trauma. Here, the only need is to prevent trauma for
the victim-witness which he or she will suffer if there is face to face
confrontation with accused and there is no need for victim identity
protection. As we shall discuss presently, even here two-way television or
video link is necessary but is limited to victim deposing without seeing the
accused physically or on the video screen, so as to prevent trauma. (ii) Victim and witness not known to the accused: We propose two separate sections in the Draft Bill to deal with (1)
victims and witnesses not known to the accused, who have obtained a
protection order before trial and (2) victims known to the accused who
found no need to obtain any such protection order before trial. Procedure: (Trial stage): Therefore, whether it is at the stage of recording of statements under sec.
161 or sec. 164 or forwarding copies given under sec. 164(6), or when
chargesheet and documents are filed under sec. 173 and copies thereof are
supplied under sections 207 and 208, it is necessary to have provision to
enable the Police to move the concerned Magistrate through the public
prosecutor, seeking anonymity in respect of the witness concerned. Witnesses will, if the Magistrate grants an identity protection order, be
described by a pseudonym or by a letter in the English alphabet, though the
real identity will be disclosed to the Magistrate. (ii) We are also of the view, as stated in Chapter VIII, that there must be
provisions permitting anonymity to witnesses at the stage of inquiry.
Witnesses will be described by letters from English alphabets. If an order of
anonymity is granted, it will enure during inquiry and extend to the trial
upto conviction or acquittal and beyond. (iii) We are also of the view that there must be witness identity protection
just before the stage of the Sessions trial i.e. before recording evidence of
witnesses at the trial, so that protection is available to witnesses in respect
of whom no orders were sought or passed during the earlier stages of
investigation or inquiry. The witnesses will again have to be described by
pseudonym or English alphabets. We are of the view that, at the trial and
after the trial, in the judgment of the Sessions Court, the anonymity must be
reflected and continued. (iv) After the judgment in the Sessions Court too, the anonymity must be
continued in all appellate proceedings. Even in and after the judgment of
the High Court or Supreme Court, as the came may be, the pseudonym or
alphabet alone has to be mentioned. Even in the law reports or newspaper
publications, the pseudonym or alphabet alone must be used. We recommend that witness anonymity must be maintained at all the
stages, investigation, inquiry, trial and even at the appeal and thereafter also. (2) Question is whether anonymity must be confined to criminal
cases or should also be extended to civil cases as well? Should it be
extended to defence witnesses also as done under the statutes in some
other countries? In our view, anonymity, for the present be confined to criminal cases
only and to prosecution witnesses, where it is more needed. No doubt there
are anonymity procedures even for defence witnesses also in some countries
such as in sec. 13B(2) of the New Zealand Evidence Act, 1908 as amended
in 1997 (see the Annexure to the Consultation Paper). But, for the present, we are of the view that anonymity procedure be
confined to prosecution witnesses in criminal cases. (3) The question is whether the anonymity provisions which were till
recently confined to TADA and POTA (terrorist cases) and now to
trials under the Unlawful Activities Act, 1967 (as amended in 2004)
should be extended to trials of all other serious offences triable by
Sessions Courts (or Court equivalent thereto) provided the conditions
required for granting anonymity are satisfied? We have dealt with this aspect elaborately in Chapter V of this
Report. In our view, in all cases triable by Courts of Session and Courts of
equal designation or Special Courts, wherever there is proof of danger to the
life or property of the witness or of his or her relatives, witness protection
must be available. It is not necessary that witness protection be confined
only to cases of terrorism and sexual offences. While the class of cases where anonymity will be given will be those
triable by Courts of Sessions, it will be a matter for decision in each case, 135 having regard to the nature of the offence and the facts of the case. Even in
the case of an individual trial, it has to be extended only to prosecution
witnesses in respect of whom there is adequate proof of danger to the life or
property of the witnesses or of their close relatives. In other words, the
case of each prosecution witness in respect of whom application is made,
has to be separately taken up and decided. In fact, it is witness specific in
all cases triable by Courts of Session. The witness identity protection is a must in all cases triable by
Sessions Court where there is danger to the witnesses to his properties or to
whose of his close relatives. So far other cases are concerned, we further
recommend that after the experience in cases triable by Sessions Courts, the
Government may consider extending the procedure to other cases as well by
appropriate statutory provisions. (4) The question is whether the existing safeguards for protection of
 victims of sexual offences and child abuse - such as in camera
 proceedings and ban on publishing any material relating to such
 proceeding while under sec. 327 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 are sufficient and whether we would suggest any
 more measures. This aspect has been elaborated in Chapter III. We have shown that
when the 172nd Report was submitted upon a reference by the Supreme
Court in Sakshi case, it was urged before the Law Commission that in
addition to the above, - screening of victim, close-circuit television, listing
of questions to be answered by the victim should be brought into the statute. But in the 172nd Report, the method of 'screening' the victim was
alone recommended. After the Report was placed before the Supreme Court, in the
judgment in Sakshi 2004 (6) SCALE 15, the Supreme Court accepted not
only "screening" but also "video-conference" procedure and suggested that
a list of questions can be prepared and given to the Court to be put to the
victim or witnesses. But, in the ultimate directions, however, the Court
merely directed 'screening' or 'some such arrangement', obviously referring
to video-conferencing procedure. In our view, the procedures referred to in the question are not
sufficient and in addition to the existing provisions concerning victims of
sexual offences including children, the procedure of using "two-way
closed-circuit television or video-link" and 'two-way audio link' must also
be introduced. These provisions should apply to victims and also witnesses
who seek identity protection. It must also apply to victims who have not
applied for identity protection but have requested that they may be
permitted to depose not in the immediate presence of the accused on the
ground of trauma. This is provided in sec 12 of the Draft Bill. (5) Question is whether it would be sufficient if the Commissioner of
 Police or Superintendent of Police seeks anonymity on behalf of
 the witness by certifying danger to the life and property of the
 witness or his relatives or should it be for the Judge to decide, on
 the basis of evidence placed before him, that the life or property
 of the witness or relatives is in danger. As stated in para 7.1 of the Consultation Paper, in Australia, the
Commissioner of Police certifies and there is a similar procedure in
Victoria, National Capital Territory, Queensland. In fact, sec. 21F of the
Evidence (Witness Anonymity) Amendment Act, 2000 mentions the 'Effect
of Witness Anonymity Certificate'. Upon such a certificate, the witness
gets anonymity. We shall refer to the procedure in New Zealand and some case law in
this behalf. In the New Zealand Evidence Act, 1908 (as amended in 1997) sec.
13B(3) reads as follows: Evidence may relate to previous conduct of the accused against other
witnesses in some other cases. Evidence may be about his conduct towards
this very witness. Evidence may be about the fact that the accused is
powerful and is part of a mafia. If the Judge has to decide on certain facts and circumstances about
the danger to the life or property of the witness or of his relatives which are
not disclosed to the accused, it cannot be said that there is no fair trial. As
stated in Scott v. Scott 1913 AC 417, there can be other overriding
principles relating to administration of justice such asgiving assurance to
witnesses that they can depose without fear, - which require some
relaxation of the rule of open trial. In R v. Atkins: 2000 (2) NZLR 46
(CA), the NZ Court of Appeal observed (see para 6.4.8 of the Consultation
Paper): The Court in Atkins pointed out that sec. 13C(6) does not expressly
prohibit questions other than those which can properly be said are likely to
lead to identification of the witness - that there is a real or substantial risk
of that resulting (in identification). Secondly, the trial Judge has a residual
power to allow such questions, which power would be exercised having
regard to all the circumstances including the relative substantiality of the
risk and the importance of the question. These are very much matters
under judicial control at trial. But, in our view, in India, it will be necessary for the Court to require
the passing of an order granting 'anonymity' to the witness in regard to
whom the prosecution wants anonymity, whether at the stage of
investigation, inquiry or trial. The subjective satisfaction of the
Commissioner of Police or of the senior Police Officer is not sufficient. It
is a matter for a judicial order by a Court and not a matter for a police
authority to pass an administrative order. Not only is the certificate not
sufficient but it will lead to complex problems and it may also result in the
police officer's certificate being challenged in parallel proceedings under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India and this will delay the proceedings. We, therefore, recommend that wherever anonymity is sought by the
prosecution in respect of anonymity, the certificate by the Police
Commissioner or other senior police officer is not sufficient. The matter 140 requires an order of the Court by way of a judicial order. However, such
certificate may be a piece of evidence which the Court shall have to
consider while deciding whether to grant anonymity or not. (6) Should there be a preliminary inquiry by the Judge/Magistrate? In such preliminary inquiry, should the identity of the witness be
 kept secret? Should the accused or his lawyer be heard or should
 it be an ex parte inquiry? Should the inquiry be in camera? We have discussed these aspects in detail in Chapter VII. In our view, there should be a preliminary inquiry before the
Magistrate for purposes of deciding the issue whether anonymity is
necessary. At the stage of investigation, an application can be moved by the
Police that in respect of the particular witness anonymity is necessary while
recording statements under sec. 161 or sec. 164 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure. A decision here will enure only for the period upto the filing of
chargesheet. Again, before the starting of the inquiry before the Magistrate, there
should be an enabling provision for preliminary inquiry if anonymity is
required for same witness or other witnesses for purposes of inquiry and
trial and if granted, such orders will enure beyond the judgment of the
Sessions Court and for purposes of appeal or revision and thereafter. There should also be a provision for grant of anonymity before the
Court of Session before it actually starts recording evidence at the trial, if
anonymity is necessary in respect of some fresh witnesses or in respect of 141 witnesses for whom anonymity was not sought earlier or was refused. Here
a preliminary order will have to be passed in respect of such witnesses by
the Sessions Court before recording evidence relating to the trial. The
anonymity granted by the Session Court must continue till trial is completed
and thereafter also. At the stage of inquiry and trial, such application can be filed by the
prosecutor or even by the witness. At the stage of investigation, only the
police can file such application. In all these preliminary inquiries, the identity of the witness will have
to be kept secret and the prosecution must place the necessary material
before the Magistrate or Sessions Judge as to why there should be an
anonymity order. The Police may file the certificate of a senior police officer of the
rank of Commissioner or District Superintendent of Police and in addition
place other material before the Court. In the preliminary inquiry during investigation, it is not necessary to
hear the suspect. The Magistrate may personally question and examine the
witness in his chambers in the presence of the prosecutor. In the preliminary inquiry by the Magistrate during inquiry or by the
Sessions Judge before recording evidence at the trial, they shall hear the
defence lawyer or the accused separately on the question without divulging
facts which may enable the defence lawyer or accused to know about the 142 identity of the witness. It is necessary to give an opportunity to the defence
lawyer/accused by hearing them separately in cases where anonymity is
claimed for witnesses during inquiry and before recording evidence at the
trial. The proceedings before the Magistrate/Sessions Court must be in
camera. In the above preliminary inquiries by the Magistrate or Judge, as
already stated, there is no need to use the closed circuit television or video
link methods. Such a procedure we are recommending only for
examination of protected witnesses or victims when they depose at the stage
of trial in Sessions Court. Thus, there should be a preliminary inquiry by the Magistrate or Sessions
Judge. In such preliminary inquiry, the identity of the witness has to be kept
secret and the accused or his lawyer can be heard separately. The inquiry
will be in camera. But at the stage of investigation, in any such preliminary
inquiry, the accused need not be heard. (7) In the application for granting anonymity before the Magistrate
 or Court of Session, - should the Judge be satisfied that the life or
 property of the witness or his relation "is" in serious danger or is
 it sufficient to show that there is 'likelihood' of such danger? Is
 the mere ipse dixit of the witness sufficient? It is obvious that it is neither necessary nor is it possible for the
prosecution to prove that life or property of himself or his relatives "is" actually in danger. All that is possible for the prosecution is to prove that
there is 'likelihood' of such danger, having regard to either previous
attempts of the accused or his associates or having regard to the incidents
with which the accused or his associates are notoriously involved etc.

 The meaning of the words 'likely' used in sec. 13C(4)(a) of the New
Zealand statute has been discussed in para 6.4.7 of the Consultation Paper.
The Court in Atkins (see para 6.4.8 of the Consultation Paper) referred to
the meaning of the word 'likely' given in other cases. It observed: ... It is the existence, in a real sense, of danger to safety (or serious
 danger) which can, not will, give rise to an order. What is being
 considered is a threshold, one which is directed to persons who, as
 part of their civil duty, are being required to take part in the Court 144 process, and their personal safety, or the well-being of their property,
 which may be affected by reason of their participation........
 ... This approach is consistent with that adopted by the English
 Court of Appeal in R v. Lord Saville of Newdigate: 1999 (4) All ER 860.... Lord Woolf MR, giving the judgment for the Court said that
 the issue was not to be determined by the onus of proof, and approved
 the dictum of Lord Diplock in Fernandez v. Government of Singapore
 1971 (2) All ER 691..... Prejudice involving a risk of inappropriate
 trial or punishment was there at issue. Lord Diplock said at p. 647: That is also our view as to the meaning of the word 'likelihood' of danger. The ipse dixit of the witness about danger to himself or to his
relatives or to their property can be accepted only if the Court finds the
material produced by the prosecution or the evidence of the witness
'reliable'. In Maryland v. Craig: (1990) 497 US 836 the US Supreme Court
said that the reliability of the testimony is to be judged. Sec. 13C(4) of the 145 New Zealand Evidence Act, 1908 (as amended in 1997) requires in Cl.(b)
that the Court must be satisfied, in the case of anonymity of defence
witnesses, that (i) there is no reason to believe that the witness has a motive
or tendency to be untruthful having regard (where applicable) to the
witness's previous conviction or the witness's relationship with the accused
or any associate of the accused; or (ii) the witness's credibility can be tested
properly without the disclosure of the witnesses' identity. Further, 13C(5)(f) requires the Judge to consider 'whether there is
other evidence which corroborates the witness's evidence'. Likewise, sec. 17 of the Portuguese Act (see para 6.9 of the
Consultation Paper), subclause (c) refers to the credibility of the witness
being beyond reasonable doubt. We are proposing a definition of 'threatened witness' which includes
victims who seek anonymity orders and we have used the word 'likelihood'
of danger to the life or property of the witness or of his close relatives in
that definition. We have also proposed a definition of 'close relatives'. Therefore, we recommend that there need be no proof of actual
'danger' to the life of the witness or his relatives or their property but proof
of 'likelihood' is sufficient. The material or evidence placed for the
purpose must be reliable. (8) The question is whether the complainant (in the case of a private
 complaint) or the prosecution should file an application before
 the Magistrate seeking non-disclosure of identity of the witness, 146 before the stage of sec. 207 , 208 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973. As discussed in Chapter VII, the stage at which anonymity may be
claimed during investigation is the stage when sec. 161 or sec. 164(6)
statements are recorded. Anonymity may also be claimed before copies of
documents are issued to the accused under ss 207, 208. (9) What should be the consequence of an anonymity order passed
 during the stage of investigation or inquiry? Should the identity
 and address of the witness be directed to be not reflected in the
 documents to be given to the accused and should the original
 documents be kept in safe custody? Should it direct that the
 Court proceedings (before actual trial) not also reflect the
 identity? (A) At the stage of investigation/inquiry, if the Magistrate comes to the
conclusion that witness anonymity order has to be passed, he shall have to
direct that in all documents which contain references to identity, including
the 161 statements or sec. 164 statements, the chargesheet of which a copy
has to be given to the accused, the name and address and other information
that may lead to the identification of the witness should not be reflected. In the POTA (which has since been repealed in 2004 and which
provisions have been brought into sec. 44 of the Unlawful Activities
(Prevention) Act, 1967) it was stated in sec. 30(3)(b) and (c) that the Special
Court may direct as follows: We recommend that as a consequence of the anonymity order, the
identity and address should not be reflected in the document to be given to 148 the accused and the original documents should be kept in safe custody. The
above details should not be reflected in the Court proceedings also. We have, in fact, made provisions in this behalf in sections 6 , 10 , 12 of the Draft Bill annexed hereto. (10) At the trial, if the Judge is satisfied about the danger to the
 witness, should the recording of statement of the witness be made
 in such a manner that the witness and the accused do not see each
 other and the Judge, the prosecutor and the defence counsel alone
 see him (using two cameras)? Should the witness who is shown on
 the video-screen be visible only to the Judge, prosecutor and the
 defence counsel? Should the taking of photographs in Court by
 others be banned? (11) In the above context, should the witness depose from a different
 room or different place, and should there be another judicial
 officer in that room to ensure that the witness is free while giving
 his evidence? So far as question 10 is concerned, as already stated, there are again
two types of cases (1) where victim is known to the accused who does not
want identity protection but only does not want to face the accused
physically; and (2) where victim and witnesses are not known to the accused
and want an identity protection order. Hence, separate procedures must be
adopted in such cases as stated in detail in Chapter IX. Question 11 deals with the aspect as to who will be present in the
room from where the witness is deposing. In Chapter IX, we have separately detailed the procedure as to how
two-way closed circuit television should be used in the case of victim-
witness known to the accused and to the cases of victims and witnesses not
known to the accused. We recommend two-way close circuit television or video link along
with two way audio link procedure as indicated in detail in Chapter IX and
these are contained in the Draft Bill in sec. 12 read with Schedule I and sec.
13 read with Schedule II, the former covering threatened witnesses and
victims who have been granted anonymity and the latter covering victims
who are known to the accused and who merely want that they should not
face the accused physically while deposing. (12) Extract from page 51

 So far as the victim-witness known to the accused is concerned, who
gives evidence from a different room through closed-circuit television is
concerned, there is no need to exclude the public or media inasmuch there is
no question of witness anonymity involved. The accused knows the victim.
Of course in the case of sexual offences sec. 327 requires in camera hearing
and in the case of juveniles, the statute require in camera proceedings.
Barring such cases where the victim is known to the accused, it is not
necessary to exclude the public or the media. We recommend, in the case of victims/witnesses not known to the
accused, in as much as question of witness identity is involved, it is
necessary to exclude the public and media from both the witness-room as 150 well as the Courtroom. Such exclusion in the interests of administration of
justice and preserving the privacy of witnesses and protecting them from
danger to their life or property, will be valid and not hit by Art. 14 or Art. 19
(1) of the Constitution of India. In case of victims not known to the
accused, it is not necessary to exclude the public or the media. Such exclusion is provided in sec. 12(3) of the Draft Bill dealing with
evidence at trial of witnesses and victims who are granted anonymity.
There is no need for such a provision in sec. 13 which deals with evidence
at trial. (13) Copy from page 52. Several statutes in other countries (see for example the New Zealand
statute referred to in the Consultation Paper) provide for appointment of an
amicus. But, in our view, there is no need to allow a separate counsel or
amicus curiae. (14) Copy from page 53. In the case of victim/witness not known to the accused, we have
stated in Chapter IX that the camera will not be focussed on such persons
and hence there is no need for distorting the image. So far as the voice is
concerned, it may be distorted by an audio-device. This is provided at the trial stage in sec. 12 of the Draft Bill so far as
witnesses and victims who have a protection order in their favour. We recommend accordingly. (15) Copy from page 54

 This aspect has been discussed earlier. In the judgment of the
Supreme Court in Kartar Singh's case 1994 (3) SCC 569 (para 290) it was
stated that as suggested by the Full Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High
Court in Bimal Kaur's case (AIR 1998 P&H 95) (FB)

 'the identity, names and addresses of the witnesses may be disclosed
 before the trial commences'

 In the Canadian case in R v. Khela: 1995 (4) SCR 201 (see para 6.5.2
of the Consultation Paper) also, it was suggested that the identity of the
approver be revealed to the accused 'just before the trial'. But, as stated earlier, such a procedure is not generally accepted in
other countries. There is good reason for not doing so because it is common
that trial is not completed in one day, not even the evidence of a protected
witness may be completed in a day. Further, it is, in our view, necessary that the identity should be kept
confidential, throughout, and after judgment and in further proceedings. It is so provided in the Draft Bill in sec. 10 . We recommend that it is not sufficient to reveal the identity of
witnesses just before commencement of the trial. The confidentiality must
be maintained even during the trial also and later. (16) copy from page 55

 This question refers to the procedure at the trial. In this final Report, we have suggested that at the stage of preliminary
inquiry during Investigation, accused need not be heard; and at the stage of
preliminary Inquiry during inquiry and before recording evidence at the
Trial, the accused is to be heard separately. We have provided in sec. 9(4) that in the latter type of situations, a list of questions can be given by or on
behalf of the accused but not those which may lead to the identity of the
witness. In our view, it is not an effective alternative to closed-circuit TV with
audio facility added. In the closed circuit TV, there is a semblance of a
regular hearing though identity is not disclosed. Further the great advantage
is that the defence lawyer can put further questions which arise out of the
answers given by the witnesses. If a list of questions alone is given to the
witness, the defence lawyer is confined to those questions and cannot put
any further questions arising out of the answers of the witness. There is no question of furnishing a list of questions at the regular
trial. The two-way television or video link procedure will be followed and
under that procedure, questions can be put via audio and video. We, therefore, prefer to two-way closed-circuit television with two-
way audio facility rather than the procedure of listed questions. (17) copy from page 57

 On the question, all the respondents answered in favour of granting
fresh opportunity. In our view, it should be permissible to the same witness to apply
again if he or she has either not applied earlier or such application has been
refused. (18) copy from page 58

 The question, as posed, arises at the trial. The responses in this
behalf were divided, some in favour of permitting such a contention, some
against it and some stating that it may depend upon circumstances and
burden must be placed on the accused. From a practical point of view, though the accused may contend that
the witness is a stock witness, he shall have to substantiate the contention by
material or circumstances which do not identify the witness. Thus, though 154 it is technically permissible to raise such a contention, it appears to impose a
very heavy burden on the accused. This can be best left to be decided by the Judge and hence no separate
provision in the Bill is necessary. (19) copy from page 60

 The majority of the responses were that the technical staff must be
employees of the judicial branch. We have made provision in this behalf in Schedule I and Schedule II
of the Bill where, while describing these technical persons, we have
described them as employees of the court. (20) copy from page 60

 We have confined the use of the two-way television or video link and
audio systems to the actual trial in the Courts of Session or equivalent
Courts or Special Courts. Even so, we are of the view that it may not be
necessary to provide the systems for each Sessions Court. This aspect can
be left to the High Court while making Rules under sec. 16 as to the places
where the infrastructure in this behalf may be provided. (21) copy from page 61 155 24 respondents stated that the anonymity order be passed only by
Sessions Courts while 15 stated they may be passed even by Magistrates.
Some suggested an independent agency. We recommend that during Investigation, the orders will be passed by
Magistrates in a preliminary inquiry and this suits local convenience also.
At the stage of Inquiry, it will be again be in a preliminary inquiry by
Magistrates. But where application is filed before recording of evidence at
the Trial, the application will be filed before the Sessions Court and will
have to be decided before the recording of the regular evidence of the trial
commences. (22) copy from page 62

 A majority of respondents favoured appeal to High court and a time
frame of one month. We recommend that so far as an order by the Magistrate at the stage
of investigation is concerned (see sec. 6 of the Draft Bill), there need be no
appeal by the prosecution or the witness if the application is refused by the
Magistrate because an appeal can delay the investigation which is time
bound. There is no question of the suspect filing any appeal against an order
under sec. 6 . But, so far as an order in a preliminary inquiry during Inquiry
proceedings passed by the Magistrate or by the Sessions Judge before
commencement of recording evidence, it is necessary to provide an appeal -
whether the application is granted or refused. The appeal must be to the
High Court against an order granting anonymity or refuses anonymity and
the time frame must, as far as possible, be one month from the date of
service of notice on the respondents in the appeal. Part II

 WITNESS PROTECTION PROGRAMMES

 Chapter XI

The Consultation Paper and Responses: These are the general features contained in the witness protection
programmes of various countries. The question is as to the procedure to be followed in our country in
respect of witness protection programmes. In the next chapter (Chapter XII), we shall set out the responses to the
Questionnaire contained in the Consultation Paper, in relation to Witness
Protection Programmes. In the chapter thereafter (Chapter XIII), we shall consider the
responses and give our recommendations. Chapter XII

 Analysis of responses to Questionnaire

 WITNESS PROTECTION PROGRAMME

(Q.) 1. Do you support the view that a Witness Protection Programme should
 be established to protect the safety, welfare and the interests of the
 witnesses? Such Programmes are already in existence in various
 countries like Australia, Canada, South Africa, Portugal, Netherlands,
 Philippines, New Zealand. In order to protect the safety, welfare and interests of the witnesses, many
countries, for example, Australia, Canada, South Africa, Portugal, Netherlands,
Philippines, and New Zealand are having Witness Protection Programmes. Now
question is, whether such kind of Witness Protection Programmes should be
established in India, so that safety and interests of the witness and his family may
be ensured? Most of the respondents (40 out of 42) have supported the view that in India
also a Witness Protection Programme should be established. Among the 40
respondents who have supported the view, 10 are from the State Governments, 10
are from the senior Police Officials, 3 are from Judges and 17 from others. The
State Government of Punjab though supported the view that such a Programme
should be established, but has stated that benefit of it should be given in very rare
cases. The State Government of Tripura has expressed their view that as the
implementation of such a Protection Programme will involve a lot of expenditure, 162 it should be funded entirely by the Central Government. An Advocate from Tamil
Nadu has opined that though Witness Protection Programme is essential but we
can not copy the Programmes in this regard existing in other countries if
implemented in our country, there will be chaos and it will be bad to our society. Only 2 respondents are not in favour of having such kind of Witness
Protection Programe. D.I.G. Police, from Police H.Q. (Crime Investigation Dept.)
Madhya Pradesh, has stated that instead of the Programme, general security
should be strengthened by making preventive action more effectively. Shri Vepa
P. Sarathi has opined that witnesses should certainly be protected, but the
programmes possible in the various countries will not work in India. (Q.)2 Apart from the change of identity, should other measures for the
 protection of witnesses be also provided. For example, (a) mention in the proceeding of an address different from one he uses or
 which does not coincide with the domicile location provided by the civil
 law; (b) being granted a transportation in a State vehicle for purposes of
 intervention in the procedural act; (c) being granted a room, eventually put under surveillance and security
 located in the court or the police premises; (d) benefiting from police protection extended to his relatives or other
 persons in close contact with him; (e) benefiting from inmate regimen which allow him to remain isolated from
 others and to be transported in a separate vehicle; (f) delivery of documents officially issued; (g) changes in the physiognomy or the body of the beneficiary; (h) granting of a new place to live in the country or abroad, for a period to
 be determined; (i) free transportation of the beneficiary, his close relatives and the
 respective property, to the new place of living; (j) implementation of conditions for the obtaining of means of maintenance; (k) granting of a survival allowance for a specific period of time. Apart from the change of identity, there are many other measures, which
may be provided in the Witness Protection Programme. These measures (eleven in
number) are mentioned in the question. Now question is, whether all or any of
these measures should be included in our Witness Protection Programme? Most of the respondents (39 out of 41) have opined that apart from the
change of identity, other measures should also be included in Witness Protection
Programme. Among these 39 respondents (10 State Governments, 9 Police
Officers, 3 Judges and 17 others) 27 are of the view that all 11 measures (a to k)
suggested in the question should be included in the Programme, while 12
respondents are of the view that some of these measures be included. Justice Ch. S.R.K. Prasad, Judge, A.P. High Court has opined that all these
things can be provided at the State expenses, but it should be extended to grave
offences only, which are punishable with 10 years imprisonment or more. The State Government of Jharkhand is not in favour of extending benefit of
changes in physiognomy or the body of beneficiary. The State Government of Punjab has suggested that whenever an order for
witness protection by changing his place of residence or facial identity of the
witness is made, then it has to be ensured first, that such person does nor have any
civil or criminal litigation. If there is any such matter, then some how it be
disposed off before such protection is given otherwise whole purpose shall be
frustrated. Special Commissioner of Police, New Delhi has suggested that these
suggested measures requires big infrastructure to implement them. These
infrastructures should be in place before we go for it. Punjab State Law Commission is of the view that ordinarily change of
identity may be sufficient for the protection of witness but in a given case, the
court may provide any of the protection enumerated in the question, depending
upon the facts and circumstances of each case. Shri Venkat Bedre, Advocate and Member Maharashtra State Law
Commission has opined that all these schemes are too expensive, therefore, it is to
be provided only in organized crimes against the State or society. I.G. Police H.Q. of Assam is of the view that only change of identity is
sufficient. Shri Vepa P. Sarathi has stated that every one of the suggestions is
impractical in our country. (Q.)3 Who among the following should be made in-charge of the
 implementation of the entire Witness Protection Programme: Here question is who should be made in-charge of the entire Witness
Protection Programme? Whether he should be a judicial officer or police officer or
it should be implemented by a Government Department or by an autonomous
body? There is no unanimity amongst the respondents on this issue. However,
majority (15 in number) are in favour that Judicial Officer should be made in-
charge of this Witness Protection Programme. Among these 15 respondents, 4 are
Police Officials, 1 from a State Government, 1 from a High Court Judge, and 9 are
from others. 11 respondents (6 State Governments, 2 Police Officers and 3 others) are of
the view that Government Department be made in-charge of this Programme. 8 respondents (2 Police Officers, 1 State Government, 1 High Court Judge
and 4 others) are in favour that an Autonomous Body should be made in-charge of
Witness Protection Programme. Only 6 respondents (2 State Governments, 3 Police Officers, and 1 Judge of
a subordinate court) have opined that a Police Officer be made in-charge of the
Programme. (Q.)4. Should apart from prosecution witness, a defence witness be also
 eligible to be admitted into the Witness Protection Programm, if danger
 to his life or property exists due to his being a witness? So far as a prosecution witness is concerned, he is certainly eligible to be
admitted into the Witness Protection Programme, if danger to his life or property
exists due to his being such a witness. But, here question is, whether a defence
witness should also be also eligible to be admitted into such Programme, if danger
to life or property to such witness exists due to his being a witness? In some cases
danger to life or property of defence witness may also exist. Every witness
whether he is a prosecution witness or defence witness, is important for fair
adjudication of a criminal case. 27 respondents out of 40 are in favour that a defence witness be also eligible
to be admitted into the Witness Protection Programme, if danger to his life or
property exists due to his being a witness. Among these 27 responses, 6 are from
State Governments, 6 are from senior Police Officers, 3 are from Judges and 12
are from others. However, 13 respondents (3 State Governments, 4 Police Officers and 6
others) are not in favour of extending the benefit of Witness Protection
Programme to the defence witnesses. (Q.)5 Should the Superintendent of Police/ Commissioner of Police be
 empowered to certify whether a particular person or victim or witness
 is in danger and entitled to be admitted to the Witness Protection
 Programme? Should such certificate be further reviewed by the trial 167 Judge before making an order of witness protection? Should such
 proceedings in court be held in camera? A particular witness or victim can be admitted into the Witness Protection
Programme, if there is danger to his life or property exists due to his being a
witness or victim. Now, question is, who has to certify that such a danger exists
and that the witness is entitled to be admitted into the Programme? Whether senior
police officers like Superintendent of Police or Commissioner of Police be
empowered to certify about the existence of danger and also to certify that
particular person is entitled to be admitted into such Witness Protection
Programme? Another point is that whether such certificate is itself sufficient for
admitting a person into the Programme or it should be further reviewed by the trial
judge before making an order of witness protection? Whether reviewing
proceedings in the court should be held in camera. Most of the respondents (33 out of 40) are of the view that senior police
officers like Superintendent of Police or Commissioner of Police should be
empowered to certify whether a particular person or victim or witness is in danger
and is entitled to be admitted into the Witness Protection Programme. Among
these 33 respondents, 8 are from the State Governments, 10 are from Police
Officials, 3 are from the Judges and 12 are from others. Among these respondents,
15 respondents have further opined that such certificate of Police Officers should,
further be reviewed by the trial judge, while 8 respondents are of the view that
there is no need of further reviewing by the trial judge. Among these 15
respondents, 7 are also of the view that such reviewing proceedings in the court
should be held in camera. Only 7 respondents (1 State Government and 6 others) are of the view that
S.P. or Commissioner of Police should not be empowered to certify whether a
particular person is in danger and is entitled to be admitted into the Programme. (Q.) 6. Whether protection under the Programme should also be extended to
 the family members, close relatives and friends of the threatened
 witness? If so, who should be included in the list of such persons? It is often seen that apart from the witness, his family members, close
relatives and even sometime friends, are also threatened by opposite party.
Further, family members of witness are dependent upon him. Question arises that
whether protection under the Witness Protection Programme should also be
extended to the family members, close relatives and friends of the witness? And
who should be included in the list of such persons? Most of the respondents (38 out of 40) have supported the view that
Protection under the Witness Protection Programme should be extended to family
members, close relatives etc. Among these 38 responses, 8 are from the State
Governments, 10 are from the Police Officers, 3 are from the Judges and 17 are
others. Only State Government of Delhi and one other respondent have opposed the
view. In respect of question that who should be included in the list, there is no
uniformity in the responses. Some have suggested that depending upon the facts of 169 each case, such protection may be extended to family members, close relatives and
friends. Some have opined that parents, siblings, sons and daughters, spouse may
be included in the list. (Q.)7. Should necessary funds be provided by both the Central and State
 Governments for implementation of the Witness Protection
 Programme? For the purpose of implementation of the Witness Protection Programme, a
lot of funds may be required. In such a situation it is suggested that both the
Central as well as State Governments should provide necessary funds for the
purpose of implementation of the Witness Protection Programme. As the
"Administration of Justice" falls under entry 11A of the concurrent list of the 7th
Schedule of the Constitution of India, it is the responsibility of both the Central as
well as State Governments. 31 out of 40 respondents have agreed that for the purpose of implementation
of Witness Protection Programme, necessary funds should be provided by both the
Central as well as State Government concerned. Among these 31 respondents, 6
are State Governments, 8 are Police Officials, 3 are Judges and 14 are others. State
Government of Bihar and Administraton of Union Territory of Lakshadwep have
suggested that the Central Government should meet 75 % expenditure of the
Programme. State Governments of Orissa, West Bengal and Tripura are of the view that
the Central Government should provide entire funds. Similar view is expressed by
the Director General of Police of Punjab State and of Manipur. Contrary to it, 4 respondents have suggested that it should be funded by the
State Government concerned. (Q.)8. Should a witness who is being admitted into the Programme be
 required to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the in-
 charge of the Programme setting out his rights, obligations, restrictions
 as well as of the person in-charge of the Programme? What are the
 means of enforcing such rights and obligations? In most of the countries, where the Witness Protection Programmes exists,
there is provision that the witness who is admitted into the Programe, is required
to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the in-charge of the
Programme. The said MOU contains the rights, obligations and restrictions of the
witness as well as of the in-charge of the Programme. Whether in our country a
witness who is being admitted into the Programme should be required to enter into
such kind of MOU? Further, what should be the means for enforcing such rights
and obligations? Most of the respondents (29 out of 37) have supported the view that a
witness who is being admitted into the Witness Protection Programme should be
required to enter into a MOU with the in-charge of the Programme setting out his
rights, obligations and restrictions as well as of the person in-charge of the 171 Programme. Among them 6 responses are from the State Governments, 9 are from
the Police Officers, 3 are from the Judges and 11 are from others. In respect of the question that how these rights and obligations can be
enforced, various options have been suggested. The State Government of
Jharkhand has suggested that a special Act may be enacted making provision for
penal clause in case of violation of MOU: D.G.Police, Gujarat is of the view that
the Police under a special statute can enforce it. D.G.Police, Haryana, has
suggested that some security in shape of documents, title to property may be taken
from the person admitted into the Programme. Such person may enforce his rights
through court of law. D.G. Police Goa, is of the view that some rules have to be
formulated for enforcing such rights & obligations. D.G. Police, Punjab has
suggested that for the purpose of enforcement of such rights and obligations, Criminal Procedure Code , 1973 may be amended. Shri Justice Anoop V. Mohta,
Judge, Bombay High Court is of the view that heavy penalty should be imposed in
case of violations of restrictions and obligations. A retired D.G.Police of M.P.
suggests amendment in Section 446 Cr.P.C. Only 8 respondents (2 State Governments, 1 Police Officer and 5 others) are
not in favour of requirement of entering into a MOU by the person admitted into
the Witness Protection Programme. (Q.)9. When the identity of a person is changed, and he later becomes a party
 as plaintiff or defendant or a witness in any other civil proceedings,
 then should such proceeding be allowed to be suspended temporarily
 and be subject to order of the Court regarding institution, trial or
 judgment in such proceedings? This is an important issue. When the Court grants anonymity to a person
and thereby his identity is changed, and later on if he becomes a party or a witness
in any other civil proceedings, question arises how he should be identified in such
later civil proceedings. If his actual identity is made known, then the whole
purpose of giving anonymity to him would be frustrated. It is suggested that the
later civil proceeding may be allowed to be suspended temporarily and the civil
court may pass order regarding institution, trial or judgment in such proceedings.
Similar kind of provision exists in Section 15 of the Witness Protection Act, 1998,
of South Africa. It provides that any civil proceedings in which a protected person
is a party or witness may be proceeded as per the order of the High Court in an ex
parte application made to him in chamber. The High Court may make an
appropriate order with regard to the institution, prosecution or postponement of
those civil proceeding. 30 out of 37 respondents have agreed that such later civil proceedings be
allowed to be suspended temporarily and should be subject to the order of the
court regarding institution, trial or judgment in such proceedings. Among these 30
respondents, 7 are State Governments, 9 are Police Officers, 1 is Judge and
remaining 13 are others. State govt. of West Bengal is of the view that in such cases the witness may
sue or be sued in his actual name. Special Commissioner of Police, H.Q. New Delhi has suggested that for
those persons there is no need of any witness protection. Shri Justice C.R.K. Prasad, Judge A.P. High Court has suggested that such
civil proceedings be conducted in camera. Shri Justice Anoop V. Mohta is of the view that normally such civil
proceeding should not be suspended. But in exceptional circumstances only such
proceeding may be suspended under the order of the Court. 3 respondents (1 State Govt. of Bihar and 2 others), however are not in
favour of suspension of civil proceedings. (Q.)10. When the identity of a person is changed, and he is an accused or a
 witness in any other criminal proceeding under his former identity,
 should the person in-charge of Protection Programme be authorized to
 disclose his identity to the prosecutor, judge or magistrate and or to
 defence lawyer in such cases? This is also an important issue. It relates to a situation where the identity of
a person is changed, and such person is an accused or witness in any other
criminal proceeding under his former identity. In such cases, whether the in-
charge of Witness Protection Programme should be authorized to disclose the
identity of protected person to the prosecutor, Judge/ magistrate and/or to the
defence lawyer? As per Section 17 (5) of the Witness Protection Act, 1998 of
South Africa, the Director of Witness Protection Programme is authorized to
disclose the identity of a protected person in any criminal proceeding. Similar kind
of provision exists in the Witness Protection Act, 1996 of National Capital
Territory of Australia. 26 out of 38 respondents have agreed with the suggestion that the person in-
charge of the Witness Protection Programme may be authorized to disclose the
identity of the protected person if such protected person is an accused or a witness
in any other criminal proceeding under his former identity. However, many
respondents are of the view that identity may be disclosed to the judge or
magistrate concerned but should not be disclosed to the defence lawyer. Among
those 26 responses which have favoured the above suggestion, 7 are from the State
Governments, 7 are from senior Police Officials, 1 response is from a Judge of
High Court and remaining 11 are from others. Special Commissioner Police, New Delhi is of the view that in such cases,
no protection should be given to such persons. 11 respondents (2 State Governments, 2 Police Officers, 2 Judges and 5
others) are not in favour of giving power to the person in-charge of the Programme
to disclose the identity of protected person if such person is accused or witness in
any other criminal proceeding. (Q.)11. Should a person be held liable to punishment if he discloses the
 identity of any protected person without the authorization of the Court
 that granted the protection? If so, what punishment should be
 prescribed? This is regarding the liability of a person who discloses the identity of a
protected person without any authorization of court. Whether such person if
discloses the identity, should be punished? And if so, what should be the quantum
of punishment? All the 40 respondents, who have given their answer to this question, have
agreed that if any person discloses the identity of a protected person without any
authorization of the Court, he should be held criminally liable for such disclosure.
In regard to quantum of punishment, most responses have suggested that penalty
should be severe and stringent. There is no unanimity in respect of period of
imprisonment and amount of fine, which is to be prescribed. It starts from 3
months imprisonment and goes upto 7 years. Similarly amount of fine suggested
by the respondents' starts from Rs. 5000/- to 50,000/-. (Q.)12. Do you support the view that where a witness who is admitted to the
 Programme fails or refuses to testify without any just cause, he should
 be prosecuted for contempt of court and the protection order be
 cancelled? The main purpose of having a Witness Protection Programme is to protect
the witnesses so that they may come forward to testify in the Court. Their
testimony may be necessary for rendering justice in the case. If such a witness fails
or refuses to testify without any just cause, should he not be prosecuted for
contempt of court? Should his protection order be not cancelled? 32 out of 40 respondents (7 State Governments, 7 Police Officers 2 Judges
and 17 others) have supported the view that where a witness who has admitted
into the Witness Protection Programme fails to testify without any just cause, he
should be prosecuted for contempt of court and his protection order should also be
cancelled. 2 State Governments, 2 police officials and one Judge of a High Court are
of the view that in such a situation only the protection order should be cancelled
and there is no need to prosecute such witness for contempt of court. 2 respondents, however have not supported the above view altogether. (Q.)13. Should the decision either admitting or refusing to admit a person to
 the Witness Protection Programme, be made appealable? To avoid
 delays, should such appeal lie directly to the High Court? This is about the question that whether there should be right to appeal
against the order of admitting or refusing to admit a person to the Witness
Protection Programme? If there is need to have right to appeal, to which Court
should such appeal lie? In order to avoid delay it is suggested that such an appeal
may go directly to the High Court. 27 respondents (out of 38) are of the view that there should be right to
appeal against the order of admitting or refusing to admit a person to the Witness
Protection Programme. Except the State Govt. of West Bengal all others have
agreed that such appeal may lie to the High Court. Many respondents have opined
that such appeal should be disposed off in a fixed time period. Among these 27
responses, 5 are from State Governments, 8 are from Police Officers, 2 from
Judges and 12 are from others. State Governments of Orissa and of Manipur, and organization (SARI) have
opined that there should be right of appeal only against order of refusal to admit
into the Programme and not against the order for admitting into the Programme. 8 respondents (2 State Governments, 2 Police Officer, a Judge of a High
Court and 3 others are not in favour of providing any appeal against the order of
admitting or refusing to admit into the Programme. (Q.)14. Do you have any other suggestions in respect of Witness Protection
 Programme? Many respondents have given their suggestions. But there is no much
substance in them. Therefore, these are not discussed here. Chapter - XIII

 Questionnaire - Discussion of responses - Recommendations

 We have analysed the responses to the 14 Questions dealing with
Witness Protection Programmes in the Questionnaire extensively in our
Summary in Chapter XI. In this chapter we propose to discuss the
responses and give our recommendations. 1) The question is whether Witness Protection Programmes should
 be established to protect witnesses outside Court. As stated in the last Chapter, almost all those who responded, (except
two) supported the introduction of Witness Protection Programmes. Some
of the respondents suggested that while all those measures which are in
force in other countries are not feasible in our country, at least some of the
important measures could be introduced. At any rate, the programmes must
be confined to cases of 'serious' offences, it was suggested. Answer: In respect of the above measures, the responses were that change of
identity is sufficient but that other measures (a) to (k) may be taken
wherever the circumstances require. Of course, as stated above, it is agreed
that the programme should be confined to exceptional cases where the
offences are triable by Courts of Session. We have examined these
responses in detail. (A) In our view, the concerned witness may be given a different identity,
(say) he or she may be described by a letter in the English alphabet, and his
or her address may be kept secret. If any statement is recorded from the
witness, the name and address should not be disclosed except to the
investigation agency, and to the Magistrate who hears the application for
grant of the protection under the programme. If the Witness Protection Programme offers no more than identity
protection, such protection is not very expensive and no heavy allocation of
funds is necessary. The only difference between such protection and witness
identity protection discussed in Part I of this Report is that identity
protection given under the programme is intended for purposes outside
Court in various situations whereas identity protection dealt with in Part I
deals with protection during investigation before Police and inquiry and 181 trial in the Court. The witness moves in society under a different name or
identity under the witness protection programme. The Magistrate while granting such identity protection under the
programme, need not to give any notice to the accused. The Police may
place the relevant material before the Magistrate or the Magistrate may
record the statement of the witness - keeping his or her identity confidential - and he may pass an order in that behalf and the new identity will apply in
all transactions or proceedings outside Court also. (B) It is only where the other measures such as re-location, maintenance,
providing accommodation, transport etc. are given, apart from identity
protection, that it will be effective but it then becomes necessary for the
Union/State Governments to make adequate funds available under the
programme. There may indeed be a few grave cases where apart from giving
identity protection, the other measures (a) to (k) referred to above, may be
necessary. It cannot be suggested that there will be no cases requiring
some of the other measures (a) to (k) to be given. Therefore, in our view, it is implicit that the programme must
contemplate other measures, in addition to identity protection, to be taken
wherever necessary even though such measures will be confined to
extraordinary cases among the class of cases of serious offences triable by
Courts of Session. It is, therefore, not possible to deny the benefit of other measures
absolutely at least in deserving cases, however small in number they may
be. We, therefore, recommend that the various measures (a) to (k)
referred to above, must be part of the programme and adequate funds must
be allocated by the Union and State Governments. (Q.)3 Who among the following should be made in-charge of the
 implementation of the entire Witness Protection Programme: In the responses received to this question, there was no unanimity.
15 responses, however, suggested that the implementation should be with
the Judicial Officer. Among these 15 were 4 Police officers, a State
Government, a High Court Judge and 9 others; 6 State Governments, 2
Police Officers and 3 others suggested that a Government Department must
be in charge. 8 persons, including 2 Police Officers, a State Government
and a High Court Judge and 4 others) suggested it should be under an
autonomous body. Six respondents (including 2 State Governments, 3
Police Officers, a trial Judge) suggested that a Police Officer be in charge. In the Witness Protection Programme, the control ultimately must be
with Judicial officers. The Police may decide which witness requires to be
placed under the Witness Protection Programme but it must be for the
Magistrate to decide whether a witness has to be admitted to the
programme. The expenditure incurred for the grant of different identity,
relocation, maintenance, transport, accommodation etc. must be met by the
Union and the State Governments jointly, because we are dealing with
serious crimes listed in the Indian Penal Code , 1860 which is a Central
statute though the offence is committed within the territories of a State. The Chief Justice of the State High Court must be the Patron-in-chief
of the Witness Protection Programme and he may administer the fund
through the State Legal Aid Authority, which is constituted for each High
Court and which is headed by a High Court Judge. Whenever a Magistrate,
upon an application by the District Superintendent of Police or
Commissioner of Police or the Public Prosecutor, passes an order admitting
a witness to the Witness Protection Programme, the order should be
communicated to the State Legal Aid Authority and the latter should issue
appropriate directions to the District Legal Services Authority, for release of
funds for the purpose of implementing the order. Out of the amount
allocated to the State Legal Aid Authority, a certain amount must, therefore,
be set apart for funding the witness Protection Programmes. For this purpose, if necessary, an amendment may be carried into the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 to say that the Chief Justice of the
High Court shall be the Patron-in-chief of the Programme that the State
Legal Aid Authority and the District Legal Aid Authority shall exercise the
powers and perform duties assigned to them under the Witness Protection
Programmes, including the administration of funds allocated for that
purpose by the said Governments. (Q.)4. Should apart from prosecution witness, a defence witness be also
 eligible to be admitted into the Witness Protection Programm, if danger
 to his life or property exists due to his being a witness? Over 27 respondents out of 40 are in favour of defence witnesses also
being admitted to the programmes if danger to their life or property exists. Of these 6 are State Governments, 6 are police officers and 3 are from
Judges and 12 others. Others are not in favour. The benefit of the programme could be extended to defence witnesses
also because the basis of extending the programme to defence witnesses is
that their life and property is in danger. But, as the question of funding the programme may have some
constraints, for the present, the programme may be confined to prosecution
witnesses and victims in the matter of crimes triable by a Court of Session.
(Q.)5 Should the Superintendent of Police/ Commissioner of Police be
 empowered to certify whether a particular person or victim or witness
 is in danger and entitled to be admitted to the Witness Protection
 Programme? Should such certificate be further reviewed by the trial
 Judge before making an order of witness protection? Should such
 proceedings in court be held in camera? In the responses, 33 out of 40 were of the view that a senior police
officer like the Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police should be
empowered to certify about the need for protection and 15 of them further
stated that the decision of the Police Officer must be reviewed by a Judge. First, the police must be satisfied that a victim or a witness's life is
"likely" to be in serious danger. Such a decision must be taken by a senior
police officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of
Police and he must, after recording his reasons for coming to such a
conclusion, certify about his satisfaction. But, this alone, without a further
order of Court, is not sufficient. The police or the public prosecutor must then move the Court of the
concerned Magistrate who may examine the certification and material on
which the certificate is based and pass a judicial order. Such a procedure
before a Magistrate must take place in camera. In that inquiry, there is no
need to hear the suspect or the accused. The Magistrate must also decide whether the witness should not
merely be granted a different identity but whether, any other measures are
required in the case like relocation, financial assistance etc. as stated earlier.
(Q.) 6. Whether protection under the Programme should also be extended to
 the family members, close relatives and friends of the threatened
 witness? If so, who should be included in the list of such persons? Most of the respondents, about 38 out of 40, supported the view that
the programme must be extended to cover other family members, close
relatives etc. as to who should be included in the list, it is said, it must
depend upon the circumstances of each case. In several cases, it may not be sufficient to grant protection only to
the witness. There may be threats to the spouse, children or parents, brother
or sisters of the witness. Depending upon who is living close to the witness
and who is likely to be threatened, an assessment of the extent of threat to
each such family members, must, no doubt, be made and if there is danger,
the protection will have to extended. It is common experience that a spouse
or children of a witness are generally threatened with abduction. Further, if it is decided to relocate a witness or victim at a different
place and he or she happens to be the breadwinner, the immediate family
members of the witness may be deprived of all means of livelihood if the 186 witness alone is relocated and in such cases, interests of justice certainly
require that the immediate family members be also relocated. As proposed in the Draft Bill in the case of Witness Identity
Protection (which is annexed hereto), the 'close family members' may be
confined to spouse, children, parents, grand parents, brothers and sisters, but
relief may be limited to those whose life or property may be in danger. (Q.)7. Should necessary funds be provided by both the Central and State
 Governments for implementation of the Witness Protection
 Programme? About 31 out of 41 respondents stated that the necessary funds must
be provided both by the Central and State Governments. Among the 31
respondents, 6 were State Governments, 8 were police officers, 3 were
Judges and 6 were others. The Government of Bihar and Administration of
Union Territory of Lakshadweep have suggested that Central Government
should meet 75% of the expenses while the States of Orissa, West Bengal
and Tripura, and the Director General of Police, Punjab and the Director
General of Manipur stated that the Central Government must bear 100% of
the expenses. Only 4 respondents stated that the State Government must
bear the expenses. As stated earlier, the expenditure for Witness Protection Programmes
must be borne by the Central Government and State Governments equally,
50% each. It is to be noted that the Indian Penal Code , 1860 is a piece of
Central Legislation, which is being administered by the Courts established 187 by the State Governments. So is the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973.
Further, in 1976, by constitutional amendment, the subject of
'Administration of Justice has been shifted in Schedule 7 of the Constitution
from the State List to the Concurrent List under Entry 11A and by that, the
Central and State Governments have assumed joint responsibility for the
'administration of justice'. The Central Government cannot, in our view,
throw the entire burden on the State Governments on the ground that 'law
and order' is a State subject. The subject of 'Witness Protection
Programmes' is not strictly a 'law and order' issue, but is directly connected
with 'Administration of Justice' so that witnesses may depose without fear
while making statements during investigation or giving evidence during
inquiry and trial. We have already referred to the fact, as stated in para
7.7.4 of the Consultation Paper that in USA, since the programme's
inception, it has obtained an overall conviction rate of 89% as a result of
testimony of witness who wee admitted to witness protection programmes.
We are of the view the Central and State Governments have to bear the
expenditure equally. 8) The question is whether a witness must enter into an MOU with
 the programme-in-charge, setting out the right, obligations and
 restrictions of both parties and if so, what is the means of
 enforcing those rights and obligations? Most of the respondents (29 out of 37) have supported the need for
entering into an MOU under the Witness Protection Programme. This
includes 6 State Governments, 9 Police Officers, 3 Judges and 11 others.
Others were not in favour of an MOU. So far as enforcement of the rights
and obligations under the MOU, some respondents have suggested 188 enactment of a special Act or execution of documents under which the
witness may give property in the form of security. The Director General of
Police, Punjab has suggested that provision can be made in the Code of
Criminal Procedure , 1973. Some suggested amendment of sec. 446 of the
Code. We shall refer to a few provisions in other countries as to what should
be contained in the MOU. CANADA: Sec. 17 states that no person shall disclose any information which he
has acquired in exercise of powers or functions etc. under the Act, except
for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of the Act or when
required to do by any Court. Subsections (5) to (7) refer to the manner and
conditions in which the Director may disclose any information. As regards execution of an MOU by the witness, we have stated in
the previous chapter that it is the procedure in almost all countries wherever
the Witness Protection Programmes are in force that there is an MOU
between the witness and the concerned Police authorities or Prosecutor and
the statute concerned contains a list of the rights and obligations of both
parties. They have to be incorporated into the MOU. We recommend that the MOU has to be entered by the victim/
witnesses with the District Superintendent of Police or the Commissioner of
Police, as the case may be, and they would move the Magistrate for
admitting the victim/witness to the programme. On such orders, funds will
be released thereafter by the Legal Aid authorities as stated earlier. Various
obligations of the parties, listed above, which have to be covered by the
MOU can be listed. The MOU must provide that each party to the MOU
will abide by the terms of the MOU. The MOU must contain the broad
obligations such as those listed in Canada and South Africa 192 As to enforcement of the provisions of the MOU, once the rights and
obligations are set out in the statute, it can also provide, if necessary, that
the parties to the MOU may approach the Magistrate Court for the purpose
of enforcement of its terms. In case of breach of MOU by the
victim/witness or the police or any other person, the affected party can move
the Magistrate for appropriate orders. (Q.)9. When the identity of a person is changed, and he later becomes a party
 as plaintiff or defendant or a witness in any other civil proceedings,
 then should such proceeding be allowed to be suspended temporarily
 and be subject to order of the Court regarding institution, trial or
 judgment in such proceedings? We may state that 30 out of 37 respondents agreed that such later
civil proceedings which come into being later may be allowed to be
suspended temporarily and should be subject to the order of the Court in
which the proceeding has to be filed or is pending regarding the institution,
trial or judgment in such proceedings. Among these, 7 are State
Governments, 9 are Police Officers and 1 is a Judge and there are 13 others. (a) A civil proceeding, if it has to be instituted by the protected
victim/witness, as a plaintiff or a petitioner, then instead of making a
provision for extending period of limitation, it will be sufficient if the
protected person is enabled to file the case under a pseudonym, where his or
her real name and address are not disclosed in the court records but are 193 disclosed only to the Judge. The same procedure can be adopted if a civil
proceeding is pending at the time when the witness is declared as a
protected witness and has to be continued. The proceedings will reflect the
pseudonym and the new address will be kept secret except to the Judge in
the civil case. Thereafter the civil proceeding has to be stayed temporarily
till the criminal case in which the person is a protected witness under the
programme is completed. (b) Where the protected person is sued in his real name, and is a
defendant/respondent, the proceeding may again have to be stayed
temporarily after substituting his name by a pseudonym and his new address
has to be kept confidential except to the Judge in the civil case. The stay of the civil proceeding in both situations will be till the
completion of the criminal case (in the trial Court) in respect of which he
has been admitted to the Witness Protection Programme. (c) Such stay orders have to be granted ex-parte and in in-camera
proceedings in the Court in which the civil case is filed or is pending and
they will have to be passed upon the application of the abovesaid police
authorities or the public prosecutor or the affected witness by using his
pseudonym in that civil court. Such a procedure staying the civil case is available under sec. 15 of
the South African Witness Protection Act, 1998 (see para 7.2 of the
Consultation Paper). (Q.)10. When the identity of a person is changed, and he is an accused or a
 witness in any other criminal proceeding under his former identity,
 should the person in-charge of Protection Programme be authorized to
 disclose his identity to the prosecutor, judge or magistrate and or to
 defence lawyer in such cases? 26 out of 38 respondents suggested that the person incharge of the
Witness Protection Programme be authorized to disclose the real identity to
the Judge or prosecutor. Several suggested that the real identity cannot be
disclosed to the 'defence' lawyer. Reference has been made in Chapter XII to the procedure in South
Africa and Australia where the real identity is disclosed only to the
Magistrate or Judge in whose Court the criminal case is filed against the
protected witness. The following procedure has to be adopted if a criminal
case is filed by/against the protected witness: (Q.)11. Should a person be held liable to punishment if he discloses the
 identity of any protected person without the authorization of the Court
 that granted the protection? If so, what punishment should be
 prescribed? (i) All the respondents have agreed that any breach of the statutory
provision regarding maintenance of confidentiality must be made
punishable and punished severely. We recommend that the unauthorized disclosure by any person of the
identity of a witness admitted to a Witness Protection Programme must be
made an offence under the proposed law and must be made severely
punishable. (ii) As regards the quantum of punishment, the suggestions of the
respondents ranged from 3 years to 7 years and fine between Rs.5000 and
Rs.50,000. We recommend that having regard to the fact that we are proposing
Witness Protection Programmes for offences triable by a Sessions Court, 196 breach of security as to identity must be visited with a punishment of 3
years with fine which may go upto Rs.10,000. (Q.)12. Do you support the view that where a witness who is admitted to the
 Programme fails or refuses to testify without any just cause, he should
 be prosecuted for contempt of court and the protection order be
 cancelled? 32 out of 40 respondents (including 7 State Governments, 7 Police
Officers, 2 Judges and 17 others) stated that not only action should be taken
for contempt of Court but that the protection be withdrawn. If the protected witness violates the MOU and fails or refuses to
testify without justifiable cause, both action for contempt of Court and
cancellation of the order admitting the witness to the programme must
follow. It is true that so far as our subordinate Courts are concerned, they do
not have power to punish anybody for contempt of Court but the Contempt
of Courts Act, 1971 envisages that the Judge inform the concerned High
Court to take action under the Act and, therefore, this procedure will have to
be followed. In addition, the police or the public prosecutor can move the
Magistrate who passed the orders admitting the witness to the programme,
for cancellation of the order admitting the witness to the programme. (Q.)13. Should the decision either admitting or refusing to admit a person to
 the Witness Protection Programme, be made appealable? To avoid
 delays, should such appeal lie directly to the High Court? 27 out of 38 respondents were in favour of providing a right of appeal
against an order admitting or refusing to admit a witness to the programme.
Mostly, it has been stated that appeal should lie to the High Court. Among
these, 5 responses were from State Governments, 8 from Police Officers, 2
from Judges and 12 from others. If a victim/witness is given physical protection outside Court or is
relocated and given a different name, that no way affects the rights of the
accused in that case and he can have no grievance as long as the person will
be brought before the Court to depose against him. However, if such
victim/witness has, in addition, a witness identity protection order, the
accused has a right of appeal to the High Court as provided in sec. 15 of our
Draft Bill. However, if a Magistrate refuses to admit witness/victim to a witness
protection programme, the witness/victim must have a right of appeal to the
High Court. There is no contradiction in not providing an appeal at the instance of
an accused where a witness is admitted to protection outside Court under a
programme on the one hand and providing an appeal in favour of the
victim/witness in as much the case of a victim/witness who has been
wrongly denied admission to the programme will compel such a person to 198 live in fear outside Court throughout the period during which the criminal
case may be pending. We recommend accordingly in respect of the thirteen questions posed
in the Consultation Paper in relation to 'Witness Protection Programmes'. (Justice M. Jagannadha Rao)
 Chairman

 (R.L. Meena)
 Vice-Chairman

 (Dr. D.P. Sharma)
 Member Secretary

Dated: 31.8.2006 199 ANNEXURE I

 The Witness (Identity) Protection Bill, 2006

A Bill to provide for identity protection to threatened witnesses in criminal
cases involving serious offences and to provide for procedure and
mechanism for such protection and for such other matters incidental thereto: (2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
 Kashmir. (3) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government
 may, by notification in the Official Gazette appoint. Definitions.- 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:- Application of the Act and overriding effect.- 3. (1) The provisions of this Act shall be applicable to the
 investigation, inquiry and trial of serious offences.
 (2) In case of any inconsistency, the provisions of this Act shall
 have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith
 contained in any provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973
 (2 of 1974), or in any provision of any other law for the time being in
 force. CHAPTER II

 WITNESSES IDENTITY PROTECTION ORDER
 Part I
 Identity Protection During Investigation

 Application for seeking Identity protection order:- 4. (1). During the course of investigation of any serious offence, if the
 officer in-charge of investigating agency is satisfied that for the
 purpose of effective investigation of the case, it is necessary to 202 protect the identity of any threatened witness, he may, through the
 Public Prosecutor or Assistant Public Prosecutor, as the case may be,
 apply in writing to the Judicial Magistrate First Class or Metropolitan
 Magistrate, seeking an identity protection order.
 (2). In every application made under sub-section (1), the true identity
 of the threatened witness, and any other particulars which may lead to
 the identification of the threatened witness, shall not be mentioned,
 and instead a pseudonym or a letter of English alphabet shall be
 mentioned to identify the threatened witness, but the true identity and
 other particulars shall be disclosed to the Magistrate. (3). Every application under sub-section (1), (a) shall be accompanied by the relevant
 material and documents which are evidence
 that the witness is a threatened witness and
 of the need to grant a protection order, and (b) may be accompanied by a certificate of an
 officer of the rank of Superintendent of
 Police or Commissioner of Police
 certifying that the witness is a threatened
 witness. Ex parte preliminary inquiry by the Magistrate.- 5. (1). The Magistrate shall, upon receipt of an application under section
 4 , hold a preliminary ex parte inquiry in camera to determine whether
 the witness is a threatened witness as claimed in the application and 203 whether there is necessity to pass a protection order, and shall follow
the procedure laid down in this section for such determination.
(2). The Magistrate may require the prosecution to place before him
any material or document which has not been already submitted, and
which he considers relevant for the disposal of the application.
(3). The Magistrate shall hear the prosecution and, in his discretion,
may examine any person including the witness who is subject of the
application orally, and shall record the substance of the statement.
(4). During the course of the preliminary inquiry, no prosecutor,
officer of the Court, or other person present or involved in the
preliminary hearing shall disclose or reveal or leak out any
information regarding the true identity of the witness, or any other
particulars likely to lead to the witness's identification.
(5). During the course of the preliminary inquiry, no oral evidence
shall be given, and no question may be put to any person, if such
evidence or question relates directly or indirectly to the true identity
of the witness who is subject of the application. (6). While considering the application, the Magistrate shall have
regard to the following:- Order by the Magistrate.- 6. (1). If, after consideration of (a) the application and all material and documents submitted
 in support of the application under section 4; and (b) the statement of any person recorded, if any, under sub-
 section (3) of section 5 ; and, after hearing the prosecution, the Magistrate is satisfied
 that (a) the witness who is subject of the application is a
 threatened witness; (b) withholding the threatened witness's identity until the
 investigation is completed and final report or charge
 sheet is submitted in the court, would not be contrary
 to the interests of justice; and (c) the need for passing a protection order outweighs the
 general right of the accused to know the identity of
 the witness, 205 he shall, pass a reasoned judicial order that until the investigation is
completed and the police report referred to in sub section (2) of
section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 or charge sheet
under any other law is forwarded to the Magistrate or Judge, the
identity of threatened witness shall not be reflected or mentioned in: Prohibition of mentioning identity of witness.- 7. (1) The true identity of witness who is subject of the application shall
 not be mentioned or reflected in any order sheet or proceeding under
 this part. (2). It shall not be lawful for any person to print or publish in any
 manner any matter in relation to any proceeding under this part. Part II

 Identity Protection after completion of investigation

Application for Identity Protection.- 8. (1). If, after the Police Report referred to in sub section (2) of section
 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or charge
 sheet referred to in any other law is forwarded to the Magistrate or
 Judge, as the case may be, but before the examination of witnesses
 begins to commence at the trial, including inquiry, the Assistant
 Public Prosecutor or the Public Prosecutor, as the case may be, is if
 opinion that it is necessary to protect the identity of a threatened
 witness, whether or not, identity protection in respect of such
 threatened witness was sought or ordered at the stage of investigation
 under Part I, he may, move an application in writing to the Judicial
 Magistrate First Class or Judge, before whom the case is pending
 seeking an identity protection order. (2). The application referred to in sub-section (1) may also be
 moved by the threatened witness, if such a witness intends to seek a
 protection order. (3). Provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 4 shall apply
 mutatis mutandis to the application made under this section.
 (4). Where an application filed under subsection (1) before the
 Magistrate or Judge, as the case may be, has been rejected at any time
 under Part I or this Part, such rejection, shall not preclude a fresh
 application being filed before the Magistrate or Judge, if fresh 208 circumstances have arisen after the rejection of the earlier application
 for the grant of a protection order. Preliminary Inquiry by Magistrate or Judge.- 9. (1). The Magistrate or Judge, as the case may be, shall, upon receipt
 of an application under section 8 , hold a preliminary inquiry in
 camera to determine whether the witness is a threatened witness as
 claimed in the application and whether there is necessity for the
 passing of a protection order and shall follow the procedure laid
 down in this section for such determination. (2). The Magistrate or Judge, as the case may be, may require the
 prosecution or the threatened witness who has moved the application
 under section 8 , to place before him any material or document which
 has not already been submitted, and which he considers relevant for
 the disposal of the application. (3). The Magistrate or the Judge, as the case may be, shall hear the
 prosecution, and subject to provisions of sub-sections (4) and (5), the
 accused and may examine any person including the witness who is
 subject of the application, orally and shall record the substance of the
 statement. (4). The Magistrate or Judge, as the case may be, shall, on the basis
 of the information which has come before him under sub section (1)
 of section 8(1) and sub section (2) and (3), inform the accused or his
 pleader as to the apprehensions of the witness and as to why he is a
 threatened witness and the necessity for passing a protection order 209 and, for that purpose, give a hearing to the accused before passing an
 order of protection. Provided that the Magistrate or Judge shall not disclose the
 identity of the witness or any other particulars which may lead to the
 identification of the said witness. Provided further that if the accused or his pleader wants to
 elicit further information from the prosecution of the threatened
 witness on the question of likelihood of danger to the life or property
 of the said witness or his close relatives, they may be permitted to
 furnish a list of questions to be answered by the prosecution or the
 said witness but no question or information which may lead directly
 or indirectly to the identification of the said witness shall be
 permitted. (5). The accused and his pleader shall not be allowed to remain
 present during such inquiry when the Magistrate or Judge, as the case
 may be, is (i) examining the witness or any other person under
 subsection (3); and (ii) hearing the submissions of the prosecutor or the
 applicant witness, as the case may be. (6). Provisions of sub-sections (4) to (6) of section 5 shall, mutatis
 mutandis, apply to the preliminary inquiry under this part. Order by the Magistrate or Judge.- 10. (1). If, after consideration of 210 (a) the application and all materials and documents submitted
 in support of the application by the parties; and (b) the statements recorded under sub-section (3) of section 9 ,
 if any; and, after hearing the submissions of the prosecutor or the applicant
witness, as the case may be, and the accused, the Magistrate or Judge,
as the case may be, is satisfied that (a) the witness who is subject of the application is a
 threatened witness; (b) withholding the threatened witness's identity until the
 judgment in trial is given and if any appeal or revision is
 presented against the judgment, until the decision in the
 appeal or revision, as the case may be, is given, would not
 be contrary to the interests of justice; and (c) the need for passing a protection order outweighs the
 general right of the accused to know the identity of the
 witness,
he shall, pass a reasoned judicial order that until the judgment in trial
is given and if any appeal or revision is presented against the
judgment, until the decision of the appeal or revision, as the case may
be, is given, the identity of threatened witness shall not be reflected or
mentioned in, (i) any document produced before the Magistrate or Judge,
 or before an appellate or revisional Court, in relation to
 such case; (ii) any proceeding (including judgment and order) before
 the Magistrate or Judge, or before an appellate or
 revisional Court, in relation to such case; (iii) any copy of documents required to be supplied to the
 accused as specified in, sections 207 and 208 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or under
 any other special law. (2). If, however, after such consideration and hearing as referred to
 in sub-section (1), the Magistrate or Judge, as the case may be, is
 satisfied that (a) the witness who is subject of the application is not a
 threatened witness, or (b) that withholding the identity of such a witness (i) would be contrary to the interests of justice, or (ii) would not outweigh the right of the accused to
 know the identity of the witness,
 he shall, by a judicial reasoned order, dismiss the application. Prohibition of mentioning identity of witness - 11. (1) The true identity of witness who is subject of the application shall
 not be mentioned or reflected in any order sheet or proceeding under
 this part. (2). It shall not be lawful for any person to print or publish in any
 manner any matter in relation to any proceeding under this part. CHAPTER III
 PROTECTION OF WITNESSES AND VICTIMS AT THE TRIAL

 Recording of statements of threatened witnesses at the trial by
 close-circuit television.- 12. (1) When in respect of a threatened witness, an order for identity
 protection has been passed under subsection (1) of section 10 , his
 statement in the Court during trial shall be recorded as per the
 procedure indicated in Schedule I, by using two-way closed circuit
 television or video link in such a manner that the accused and his
 pleader shall not be able to see the face or body of the witness. Provided that the accused and his pleader shall, subject to the
 provisions of subsection (2), be entitled to hear the voice of the
 witness during recording of the statement. (2) The Presiding Judge may, on his own or on an application
 made by the prosecution or the threatened witness, if he is so
 satisfied, direct that while recording the statement referred to in
 subsection (1), the voice of the witness shall be distorted, and in that
 event, the accused or his pleader shall be entitled to hear the distorted
 voice: Recording of statements of victim at the trial of serious offences
 where protection order has not been sought or has been refused.- 13. Where in the case of trial of a serious offence, no application for a
 protection order has been made or having been made, has been
 refused but where the victim seeks that he may be permitted to depose
 without seeing the accused either physically or through television or
 video link to avoid trauma, the Court may, except for enabling the
 victim to identify the accused either physically or through television
 or video link, direct that examination of the witness shall be
 conducted by using two-way closed circuit television or video link
 and two-way audio system in the manner specified in Schedule II. Oath of secrecy to be administered to certain persons referred to
 in Schedules I and II.- 14.(1) The technical personnel operating the two-way television or video
 link and the two-way audio system and the courtmaster or
 stenographer of the Judge referred to in Schedule I and II, shall be
 administered an oath of secrecy in respect of the identity and other
 particulars of the threatened witness and 215 (2) It shall not be lawful for any of the persons referred to in sub
 section (1) to reveal the identity of the witness to any other person or
 body. Applicability of the Act.- 15. The provisions of this Act shall apply to (a)victims of serious offences the recording of whose statements at
 the trial in the court of Session has not commenced, and (b)threatened witnesses in relation to serious offences whose identity
 has not been revealed to the suspect or the accused and whose
 statements have not been recorded during investigation or during
 inquiry before the Magistrate or before their statements are
 recorded by the Court of Session during trial,
 at the date of commencement of this Act. CHAPTER IV
 MISCELLANEOUS
 Appeal.- 15. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by an order passed under section 10 ,
 may appeal against such order to the High Court within thirty days
 from the date of order. (2). The High Court shall decide the appeal as expeditiously as
 possible and preferably within thirty days from the date of service of
 notice on respondent. Offences.- 16. Whoever contravenes the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 7 ,
 sub section (2) of section 11 and sub section (2) of section 14 , shall
 be punished with imprisonment of either description which may
 extend to two years and shall also be liable to fine which may extend
 upto rupees ten thousand. Power of High Court to make rules.- 17. (1) Every High Court may, make rules for the purpose of enforcement
 of the provisions of the Act in the Court of the Magistrate or of the
 Judge. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
 provision of subsection (1), such rules may refer to 217 (a) the manner in which and the places at which the
 statement of threatened witnesses referred to in section 12 and Schedule I and the statement of victim
 referred to in section 13 and Schedule II may be
 recorded by using two way close circuit television or
 video link and two-way audio system; installation and operation of close circuit television
 and video link system, and for screening the victim
 and other witnesses from accused. (3) All rules made under this section shall be published in the Official
Gazette. Schedule I
 ( section 12 )

(1) There shall be a two-way closed circuit television or video link and a
two-way audio system established between the room from which the
Presiding Judge functions (hereinafter called Room A) and another room
(hereinafter called Room B). (2) In Room A, the Presiding Judge, the courtmaster and the
stenographer, the public prosecutor, the threatened witness in whose favour
a protection order under section 10 has been passed and the technical
personnel of the Court operating the television or video link and the audio
system, shall alone be present. (3) In Room B, the accused, his pleader and the technical personnel of
the Court operating the television or video link and the audio system, shall
alone be present. (4) (a) The threatened witness shall be examined by the prosecutor
who is in Room A directly, and he may identify the accused on the video
screen but the camera in Room A shall not be focussed on the threatened
witness and his image shall not be visible on the screen in Room B. (b) The said witness who is in Room A shall be cross-examined by
the accused or his pleader who are in Room B through the two-way
television or video link and the two-way audio system, subject to the
procedure stated in subsections (1) and (2) of section 12 . Schedule II
 ( section 13 )

(1) There shall be a two-way closed circuit television or video link and a
two-way audio system established between the room from which the
Presiding Judge functions (hereinafter called Room A) and the other room
(hereinafter called Room B). (2) In Room A, the Presiding Judge, the courtmaster and stenographer,
the accused and the technical personnel operating the two-way television or
video link and the two-way audio system shall be present and the camera
will not be focussed on the accused except when the victim has to identify
the accused. (3) In Room B, the victim, the public prosecutor and the pleader of the
accused shall be present and except as permitted by clause (2), the image of
the accused shall not be shown on the screen in Room B.

(4) The victim shall be examined by the prosecutor or cross-examined by
the pleader of the accused directly and the image of the accused who is in
Room A shall not be visible on the screen in Room B. 220 ANNEXURE II

 LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA

 CONSULTATION PAPER

 ON

 WITNESS IDENTITY PROTECTION

 AND

WITNESS PROTECTION PROGRAMMES

 AUGUST 2004 221 INDEX

 Summary of the Consultation Paper
 4-15

PART - I
 GENERAL

CH: I Protection of witnesses in criminal cases - 16-21
 Need for new law - Observations of Supreme Court

CH: II Public trial and cross-examination of witnesses 22- WITNESS IDENTITY PROTECTION Vs. RIGHTS OF ACCUSED

CH: V Protection of identity of witness Vs 49-81. CH: VII Witness protection programmes - A comparative
231-297
 study of programmes in various countries (a) AUSTRALIA (i) VICTORIA (ii) NATIONAL CAPITAL TERRITORY (iii) QUEENSLAND (b) SOUTH AFRICA (c) HONG KONG (d) CANADA (e) PORTUGAL (f) PHILIPPINES (g) UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (h) FRANCE (i) CZECHOSLOVAKIA (j) REPUBLIC OF KOREA (k) JAPAN (l) NETHERLANDS (m) GERMANY AND ITALY 223 PART - IV

 QUESTIONNAIRE

 CH: VIII Questionnaire
 298-306

APPENDIX

Statutes of New Zealand and Portugal 224 Law Commission of India's

 Consultation Paper on Witness Protection

 Summary

 This is a summary of the contents of the various chapters in this
Consultation Paper. Chapter I - Introduction

 There are two broad aspects to the need for witness protection. The
first is to ensure that evidence of witnesses that has already been collected at
the stage of investigation is not allowed to be destroyed by witnesses
resiling from their statements while deposing on oath before a court. This
phenomenon of witnesses turning `hostile' on account of the failure to
`protect' their evidence is one aspect of the problem. This in turn would
entail special procedures to be introduced into the criminal law to balance
the need for anonymity of witnesses on the one hand and the rights of the
accused, on the other, for an open public trial with a right to cross-
examination of the witnesses, after knowing all details about witnesses. The other aspect is the physical and mental vulnerability of the
witness and to the taking care of his or her welfare in various respects which
call for physical protection of the witness at all stages of the criminal
justice process till the conclusion of the case, by the introduction of witness
protection programmes. While the first aspect of protecting the evidence of witnesses from the
danger of their turning 'hostile' has received limited attention at the hands
of Parliament in some special statutes dealing with terrorism, there is an
urgent need to have a comprehensive legislative scheme dealing with the
second aspect of physical protection of the witness as well. Further, both
aspects of anonymity and witness protection will have to be ensured in all
criminal cases involving grave crimes not limited to terrorist crimes. The 225 implementation of such a law would involve drawing up (a) procedures for
granting anonymity to witnesses and also (b) introducing Witness Protection
Programmes as well in which personal protection is granted to the witness;
sometimes by shifting the witness to a different place or even a different
country; or by providing some money for maintenance or even by providing
employment elsewhere. These are all the various aspects for discussion in
this Consultation Paper. The Law Commission has taken up the subject suo motu on account
of the observations of the Supreme Court in certain important cases and also
because of immediate importance of the subject in our country. The
Commission has prepared this Consultation Paper in order to invite
responses from all sections of society. After receiving the responses, it will
make its final recommendations possibly along with a draft Bill. Chapter II - Public trial and cross-examination of witnesses in open
court: Indian laws Sec.327 Cr.PC provides for trial in the open court and 327 (2) provides for
in-camera trials for offences involving rape under s.376 IPC and under s.376 A to 376 D of the IPC. Sec. 273 requires the evidence to be taken in
the presence of the accused. Sec. 299 indicates that in certain exceptional
circumstances an accused may be denied his right to cross-examine a
prosecution witness in open court. Further, under Sec.173 (6) the police
officer can form an opinion that any part of the statement recorded under
Sec.161 of a person the prosecution proposes to examine as its witness need
not be disclosed to the accused if it is not essential in the interests of justice
or is inexpedient in the public interest. Sec. 228A IPC prescribes punishment if the identity of the victim of
rape is published. Likewise, Sec. 21 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and
Protection of Children) Act, 2000 prohibits publication of the name, address
and other particulars which may lead to the identification of the juvenile. Under Sec. 33 of the Evidence Act, in certain exceptional cases,
where cross examination is not possible, previous deposition of the witness
can be considered that relevant in subsequent proceedings. The Evidence
Act requires to be looked into afresh to provide for protection to a witness. Chapter III - Protection of identity of witnesses: Special Statutes in
India
In the pre-constitutional era, Sec. 31 of the Bengal Suppression of Terrorist
Outrages Act, 1932 empowered the special Magistrate to exclude persons or
public from the precincts of the court. Sec. 13 of TADA, 1985 and Sec. 16 TADA 1987 provided for protection of the identity and address of a witness
secret. Sec. 30 POTA 2002 is on the same lines as Sec. 16 TADA, 1987.
Apart from these provisions in special statutes, there is a need for a general
law dealing with witness anonymity in all criminal cases where there is
danger to the life of the witness or of his relatives or to his property. Chapter IV - Earlier reports of the Law Commission of India
The 14th Report of the Law Commission (1958) examined, inter alia, the
question of providing adequate facilities to witnesses attending cases in
courts. The 4th Report of the National Police Commission (1980)
acknowledged the troubles undergone by witnesses attending proceedings in
courts. The 154th Report of the Law Commission (1996) particularly noted: The 172nd Report of the Law Commission (2000), dealing with the review of
rape laws suggested that the testimony of a minor in the case of child sexual
abuse should be recorded at the earliest possible opportunity in the presence
of a Judge and a child support person. It further urged that the court should
permit the use of video-taped interview of the child or allow the child to
testify by a closed circuit television and that the cross examination of the
minor should be carried out by the Judge based on written questions
submitted by the defence. The Commission also recommended insertion of a
proviso to sec. 273 Cr.P.C to the effect that it should be open to the
prosecution to request the court to provide a screen so that the child victim
does not see the accused during the trial. In its 178th Report (2001), the Law Commission recommended the insertion
of s.164A in the Cr.PC to provide for recording of the statement of material
witnesses in the presence of Magistrates where the offences were
punishable with imprisonment of 10 years and more. On the basis of this
recommendation, the Criminal Law (Amendment) Bill, 2003 was introduced
in the Rajya Sabha and is pending enactment. Chapter V - Protection of identity of witnesses v. Rights of accused -
Principles of law developed by the Supreme Court and the High Courts
In the pre-Maneka Gandhi phase the Supreme Court, in Gurbachan Singh v.
State of Bombay AIR 1952 SC 221, upheld a provision of the Bombay
Police Act, 1951 that denied permission to a detenue to cross-examine the
witnesses who had deposed against him. It was held that the law was only to
deal with exceptional cases where witnesses, for fear of violence to their
person or property, were unwilling to depose publicly against bad character.
At this stage, the issue was not examined whether the procedure was 'fair'. The decisions in G.X. Francis v. Banke Bihari Singh AIR 1958 SC 209 and
Maneka Sanjay Gandhi v. Rani Jethmalani (1979) 4 SCC 167 stressed the
need for a congenial atmosphere for the conduct of a fair trial and this
included the protection of witnesses. In Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab (1994) 3 SCC 569 the Supreme Court
upheld the validity of ss.16 (2) and (3) of the Terrorist and Disruptive
Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (TADA) which gave the discretion to the
Designated Court to keep the identity and address of a witness secret upon
certain contingencies; to hold the proceedings at a place to be decided by
the court and to withhold the names and addresses of witnesses in its orders.
The court held that the right of the accused to cross-examine the prosecution
witnesses was not absolute but was subject to exceptions. The same
reasoning was applied to uphold the validity of Sec. 30 of the Prevention of
Terrorism Act, 2002 (POTA) in People's Union of Civil Liberties v. Union
of India (2003) 10 SCALE 967. In Delhi Domestic Working Women's Forum v. Union of India (1995) 1
SCC 14 the Supreme Court emphasised the maintenance of the anonymity
of the victims of rape who would be the key witnesses in trials involving the
offence of rape. The importance of holding rape trials in camera as
mandated by s.327 (2) and (3) Cr.PC was reiterated in State of Punjab v.
Gurmit Singh (1996) 2 SCC 384. In Sakshi v. Union of India (2004) 6
SCALE 15 the Supreme Court referred to the 172nd Report of the Law
Commission and laid down that certain procedural safeguards had to be
followed to protect the victim of child sexual abuse during the conduct of
the trial. In the Best Bakery Case (2004) 4 SCC 158, in the context of the
collapse of the trial on account of witnesses turning hostile as a result of
intimidation, the Supreme Court reiterated that "legislative measures to 228 emphasise prohibition against tampering with witness, victim or informant,
have become the imminent and inevitable need of the day." Although, the guidelines for witness protection laid down by the Delhi High
Court in Neelam Katara v. Union of India (judgment dated 14.10.2003)
require to be commended, they do not deal with the manner in which the
identity of the witness can be kept confidential either before or during the
trial. The judgment of the Full Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court
in Bimal Kaur Khalsa AIR 1988 P&H 95, which provides for protection of
the witness from the media, does not deal with all the aspects of the
problem. These judgments highlight the need for a comprehensive legislation on
witness protection. Chapter VI - Witness anonymity and balancing of rights of accused - a
comparative study of case law and other countries
In the United Kingdom, the judgment of the House of Lords in Scott v. Scott
1913 AC 417 required that the exception to the general rule that
administration of justice should take place in open court should be based
"upon the operation of some other overriding principle which ... does not
leave its limits to the individual discretion of the Judge." In the Leveller
Magazine case (1979) it was held by the House of Lords that apart from
statutory exceptions it was open to the court "in the exercise of its inherent
powers to control the conduct of proceedings" so long as the court
"reasonably believes it to be necessary in order to save the ends of justice."
This was subsequently recognised by the enactment of s.11 of the (UK)
Contempt of Court Act, 1981. Under s.24 of the Youth Justice and Criminal
Evidence Act, 1999 evidence may be given through a live telecast link
where the witness is outside UK or is a child. Ss.16 to 33 of the same Act
require the court to consider special measures of various kinds for the
protection of vulnerable and intimidated witnesses. In R vs. DJX, SCY,
GCZ (1991) Crl. A Rep. 36, the Court of Appeal allowed child witnesses to
be screened from the accused. In R vs. Tailor (Gary) 1995 Crl. LR 253
(CA), various guidelines were issued. The Lord Diplock Commission, appointed to consider various issues
concerning the violent confrontations in Ireland, suggested that witnesses
could be screened from the accused. In R v. Murphy (1989) it was held that 229 identity of the witness should be kept secret not only from the accused but
also from the defence lawyer. In R v. Lord Saville of Newdigate 1999 (4) All
ER 860 the Court of Appeal overturned the decision of the Lord Saville
Tribunal appointed to enquire into the incident of shooting of 26 people
during a demonstration at Londonderry, refusing to grant anonymity to
military witnesses. The Court of Appeal held that the approach of the
Tribunal was not fair to the soldiers as the risk to them and their families
was "a serious possibility." In the second round (Lord Saville v. Widgery
Soldiers 2002 (1) WLR 1249), the Court of Appeal overturned the decision
of the Lord Saville Tribunal to shift the enquiry from London to
Londonderry in Northern Ireland holding that the elements at Londonderry
in Ireland "pose a threat to the enquiry and those who are or will be taking
part in it, and in particular, a solider witnesses." The venue, according to
the Court of Appeal, should be London only. Further, since there would be
live video linkage to Londonderry "the public confidence will not be eroded
by holding a part of the enquiry in London." The same approach was
adopted in regard to the recording of the evidence of police witnesses.
Following the ruling of the European Court on Human Rights in Chahel v.
UK, the Special Judgment on Appeals Commission Act, 1997 and the
Northern Ireland Act, 1998 have been enacted which provide for courts to
sit in camera where it was necessary on national security grounds and for
appointing special counsel to represent individuals in those proceedings.
In Australia, the Supreme Court of Victoria (Australia) in Jarvie (1995)
approved of non-disclosure of the names and addresses of informers and
undercover police officers as well as other witnesses whose personal safety
would be endangered by the disclosure of their identity. This has been
followed in a series of other cases as well. Australia also has 8 different
statutes (in each of the States) dealing with witness protection but not with
the anonymity or screening aspects. S.2A (1)(b) of the Australian Evidence
Act, 1989 deals with special witnesses - suffering from trauma or likely to
be intimidated. In New Zealand, under s.13A of the (New Zealand) Evidence Act, 1908
(introduced 1986), protection is available to undercover officers in cases
involving drug offences and offences tried on indictment attracting a
maximum penalty of at least 7 years imprisonment. A certificate has to be
given by the Commissioner of Police to the court that the police officer
requiring protection has not been convicted of any offence. In 1997, s.13G
was introduced making protection applicable to all witnesses if their lives 230 were likely to be endangered. In R v. L 1994 (2) NZLR 54 (CA), this
provision came to be tested on the anvil of s.25(f) of the New Zealand Bill
of Rights which provides for the right to cross-examination to an accused.
The court upheld the provision on the ground that the right of cross-
examination was not absolute. Under s.13C(4) the Judge, might make an
anonymity order where he is satisfied that the safety of a witness is likely to
be endangered if his identity was disclosed. Sub-section (5) of sec. 13C
provides for the factors to be accounted for by the court and sub-section (6),
the conditions to be fulfilled. The power of the court to exclude the public
or to direct screening of the witnesses or to give evidence by close circuit
television is provided under s.13G. The 1997 legislation is comprehensive
and has been held by the courts to be 'fair' vis-à-vis the New Zealand Bill
of Rights in R vs. Atkins 2000(2) NZLR 46(CA). In Canada, the courts have granted more importance to the exception of
'innocence at stake' rather than the needs of administration of justice. In
other words, anonymity of witnesses is treated as a privilege granted under
the common law unless there is a material to show that it will jeopardize the
proof of innocence of the accused. The important cases in this regard are R
v. Durette 1994 (1) SCR 469; R v. Khela 1995 (4) SCR 201; CBC v. New
Brunswick 1996 (3) SCR 480; R v. Leipert 1997 (1) SCR 281 and R v.
Mentuck 2001 (3) SCR 442. In South Africa, the approach is on a case by case basis in order to balance
the conflict of interests with a view to ensuring proper administration of
justice. S.153 of the (South Africa) Criminal Procedure Code permits
criminal proceedings to be held in camera to protect privacy to the witness.
S.154 gives discretion to the court to refuse publication of the name of the
accused. The South African courts have permitted the witness to give
evidence behind close doors or to give witness anonymity. The courts prefer
to prohibit the press from reporting on identity rather than exclude them
from the court room. The important cases are S v. Leepile 1986 (4) SA 187
and S v. Pastoors 1986 (4) SA 222. The courts in the US have held that the constitutional protection in favour of
the right to confrontation by way of cross examination, as provided in the 6th
Amendment to the Constitution, is not absolute and could be restricted for
the purpose of protecting witness identity by using video link or by
shielding the witness from the accused though not from the lawyers to the
defence or the court or the jury. The important cases are Alford v. US
(1931); Pointer v. Texas (1965) and Smith v. Illinois (1968). In Maryland v. Craig (1990), the court upheld the procedure under the Maryland Courts
and Judicial Procedure Code which provided for protection of child
witnesses by way of one-way closed-circuit procedure and held that it did
not violate the right to confrontation guaranteed by the 6th Amendment.
The European Court of human rights has in Kostovski (1990), Doorson
(1996), Vissier (2002) and Fitt (2002) recognised the need to protect
anonymity of witnesses while, on account of Article 6 of the European
Convention, more importance appears to have been given to the rights of the
accused. If national courts had determined that anonymity was necessary or
not necessary in public interest, the European court could not interfere.
The judgments of the International Criminal Tribunal for former Yugoslavia
(ICTY) in the 'Tadic' and 'Delaic' cases in the context of protection of
witnesses, anonymity, re-traumatisitation and general and special measures
for their protection have been discussed in detail. Likewise, the decisions of
the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) (1994) with
reference to the relevant statute which provide for protection of victims and
witnesses have also been discussed in great detail in the Consultation Paper. Chapter VII - Witness Protection Programmes: A comparative study of
programmes in various countries
This chapter discusses the Witness Protection Programmes in the States of
Victoria, the National Capital Territory, Queensland in Australia. It
discusses the provisions of the Australian Crime Commission Bill, 2003.
This chapter also deals with the programmes in South Africa, Hong Kong,
Canada, Portugal, Philippines and the United States of America. Chapter VIII - Questionnaire
This sets out the questions on which specific responses are sought by the
Law Commission to the issues raised in the Consultation Paper. The final
report of the Law Commission is proposed to be prepared after taking into
account the responses received from a wide cross-section of respondents. PART I

 Chapter - I

 Introduction

 Protection of Witnesses in Criminal Cases - Need for new
 law - Observations of the Supreme Court

1.1 The criminal justice system in our country has been the focus of
 several studies and reports of expert bodies. The Law Commission of
 India has itself submitted several reports on topics related to the
 substantive and procedural aspects of the criminal justice system.
 Among the problem areas that have been highlighted is the one
 relating to intimidation or allurement of victims or witnesses for the
 prosecution leading to the inevitable consequence of the collapse of
 the trial. The criminal courts in the capital city New Delhi have
 witnessed this phenomenon with fair regularity in the recent past in a
 series of trials involving sensational and ghastly crimes. The impunity
 with which persons facing charges of mass murders, rape and
 gruesome killings are able to frustrate the justice process through the
 tactics of intimidation, threats and even elimination of witnesses has
 given cause for grave concern. Several recent pronouncements of the
 Supreme Court of India, including the one in the Best Bakery case,
 have highlighted the immediate need for legislation in this area.
1.2 There are two broad aspects to the need for witness protection. The
 first is to ensure that evidence of witnesses that has already been
 collected at the stage of investigation is not allowed to be destroyed
 by witnesses resiling from their statements while deposing on oath
 before a court. This phenomenon of witnesses turning `hostile' on
 account of the failure to `protect' their evidence is one aspect of the
 problem. This in turn would entail special procedures to be
 introduced into the criminal law after knowing all details about
 witnesses, to balance the need for anonymity of witnesses on the one
 hand and rights of the accused for an open public trial with a right to
 cross-examination of the witnesses, on the other hand.
1.3 The other aspect is the physical and mental vulnerability of the
 witness and to the taking care of his or her welfare in various respects 233 which calls for physical protection of the witness at all stages of the
 criminal justice process till the conclusion of the case.
1.4 While the first aspect of protecting the evidence of witnesses from the
 danger of their turning `hostile' has received limited attention at the
 hands of Parliament, there is an urgent need to have a comprehensive
 legislative scheme dealing with the second aspect of physical
 protection of the witness as well. Further, witness protection will
 have to be ensured in all criminal cases involving grave crimes not
 limited to terrorist crimes. The implementation of such a law would
 involve drawing up of Witness Protection Programmes.
1.5 Today, "Witness Identity Protection" statutes as well as "Witness
 Protection Programmes" have come into being in a number of
 countries. Initiatives have been taken, both on the judicial side as well
 as by legislation, in several countries including the USA, UK,
 Scotland, Germany, Canada, South Africa, France, Portugal, Brazil,
 Japan, Philippines, Hong Kong, Korea, Pakistan, Malaysia, China,
 Fiji, Laos, Nigeria, Tanzania, Papua New Guinea and Thailand. These
 encompass witness identity protection and witness protection
 programmes. The statutes and rules governing the functioning of the
 Tribunals constituted by the United Nations to try the crimes against
 humanity in Yugoslavia and Rwanda also make provisions not only
 for protection of identity of witnesses for the prosecution (including
 victims of offences) but also, in certain cases, to the protection of
 identity of witnesses on behalf of the defence. 1.6 The judicial pronouncements of the courts in some of the countries
 referred to above have dealt with complex issues concerning the
 rights of witnesses/ victims for protecting their identity and for a
 proper balancing of the rights of the accused to a fair trial. In several
 countries case law as well as rules require the witnesses to be
 examined under a one way video-link where the witness does not see
 the accused or where the accused does not see the witness, but the
 Judge and the defence counsel will be able to see the witness and
 watch his demeanour. Likewise, statutes or rules have been made in
 several countries in regard to comprehensive Witness Protection
 Programmes. 1.7 In certain situations the public and the media are not allowed inside
 the court and in certain other cases, media is prohibited from
 publishing facts relating to the identity of witness. We may point out
 incidentally that issues also arise whether public or the media can be
 allowed to know the identity of the victim/ witness. Cases where the 234 witness's identity has to be kept confidential have raised serious
 issues of alleged breach of right of the accused to confront the
 witness by way of cross examination in open Court and questions are
 debated as to whether there can be an effective cross-examination if
 the crucial facts relating to the identity and place of residence of the
 witness are not disclosed to the accused. Statutes as well as Court
 judgments have come forward with a variety of solutions to balance
 rights of the accused and of the witnesses. There are also a large
 number of Witness Protection Programmes in other countries in
 which personal protection is granted to the witness; sometimes he is
 shifted to a different place or even a different country; he is paid
 some money for his maintenance or he is even provided with
 employment elsewhere. These are all the various aspects for
 discussion in this Consultation Paper. Need for a law on various aspects of witness protection - Supreme
 Court's observations
1.8 In the order dated 8.8.2003 made by the Supreme Court in National
 Human Rights Commission v. State of Gujarat and Others , 2003 (9)
 SCALE 329, the Supreme Court referred to the need for legislation on
 the subject. In the judgment of the High Court of Delhi, dated 14th
 October 2003 (Crl.W.No.247 of 2002) in Ms Neelam Katara v. Union
 of India , certain directions/ guidelines on witness protection have
 been issued, pending the making of legislation but these are only a
 beginning. 1.9 In the recent judgment of the Supreme Court in PUCL v. Union of
 India , 2003 (10) SCALE 967 while dealing with the validity of section 30 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002, the Supreme
 Court has referred in detail to the subject of 'protection of the
 witnesses' and to the need to maintain a just balance between the
 rights of the accused for a fair trial (which includes the right to cross
 examine the prosecution witnesses in open court) and to the need to
 enable (1) prosecution witnesses whose identity is known to the
 accused to give evidence freely with being overawed by the presence
 of the accused in the Court and (2) protection of the identity of
 witnesses who are not known to the accused, - by means of devices
 like video-screen which preclude the accused from seeing the witness
 even though the Court and defence counsel will be able to see and
 watch his demeanour. 1.10 Zahaira Habibulla H. Sheikh & Another v. State of Gujarat and
 Others (2004) 4 SCALE 375, (the Best Bakery Case), was a case
 involving the killing of fourteen persons in a communal riot in
 Gujarat. 37 of the prosecution witnesses, including several eye
 witnesses, some of them relatives of the deceased, turned hostile at
 the trial. The 21 accused persons were all acquitted by the trial court.
 The appeal by the State of Gujarat was dismissed by the High Court.
 While reversing the acquittal and ordering a retrial outside Gujarat, in
 the State of Maharashtra, the Supreme Court made several
 observations on the question of protection of witnesses. In this case
 too, the Supreme Court observed that (p.395) "Legislative measures
 to emphasise prohibition against tampering with witnesses, victim or
 informant, have become the imminent and inevitable need of the
 day". The Court also referred (p.399) to "Witness Protection
 Programmes" formulated in various countries. It said: "The Witness
 Protection Programmes are imperative as well as imminent in the
 context of alarming rate of somersaults by witnesses". In fact, the
 Court has since sought responses from various States on the question
 of witness protection. 1.11 In Sakshi v. Union of India , 2004 (6) SCALE 15 (at p.32), the
 Supreme Court while dealing with the plea for enlargement of the
 definition of the word 'rape', and protection of victims of child sexual
 abuse, observed that in matters relating to such sexual offences there
 need to provide victim protection at the time of recording statement
 made before the Court. On the need for legislation, the Supreme
 Court again observed: 1.12The Law Commission has taken up the subject suo motu on account of
 the observations of the Supreme Court and also because of immediate
 importance of the subject in our country. The Commission has prepared
 this Consultation Paper in order to invite responses from all sections of
 society. After receiving the responses, it will make its final
 recommendations possibly along with a draft Bill. 1.13Part I of the Consultation Paper deals with general matters; Part II with
 protection of witness identity vis-à-vis rights of accused. Witness
 Protection Programmes are discussed in Part III. Part IV contains a fairly 236 exhaustive 'Questionnaire' to which the Commission hopes to receive
 responses from a wide cross-section of people. CHAPTER II

 PUBLIC TRIAL AND CROSS EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES IN
 OPEN COURT: EXISTING INDIAN LAWS

2.1 Introduction: Public trial and cross examination of
 witnesses: existing Indian laws

 The adversary system of trial which has been adopted in India is
founded on the basis of two vital principles, firstly, that the burden of proof
lies on the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused and secondly, that
the accused is presumed to be innocent until the contrary is proved. These
principles provide a level playing field to an accused as against the mighty
power of the State and its instrumentalities. In a criminal trial, the
prosecution and defence prepare their respective cases and the prosecution
has to first lead evidence. The defence cross-examines the prosecution
witnesses to test the veracity of the prosecution case. The accused has the
right to silence and need not normally examine witnesses unless he chooses
to examine himself or some defence witnesses and this is generally done in
cases where he has a special plea or a plea of alibi. The Indian Evidence
Act, 1872 and the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 lay down a
comprehensive legal framework for recording the testimony of witnesses in
criminal cases. In addition, clause (3) of Art. 20 the Constitution protects
the accused against self-incrimination. 2.2 Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973: Existing Law 237 In the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, section 327 provides for
trial in open court. Further, for ensuring a fair trial, elaborate provisions
have been made in section 207 (supply of copies of police report and other
documents to the accused), section 208 (supply of copies of statements and
documents to accused in other cases triable by Court of Sessions), and
section 273 (evidence to be taken in the presence of accused). Section 299
refers to the right of the accused to cross-examine the prosecution
witnesses. These provisions are intended to guarantee an open public trial
with a right to the accused to know the evidence gathered by the prosecution
and also a right to cross-examination to safeguard the interest of the
accused. This is so particularly because the accused is presumed to be
innocent unless proved guilty beyond reasonable doubt. 2.2.1 Section 273 is not without exceptions. The Supreme Court referred
to sec. 273 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 in Sakshi vs. Union of
India : 2004(6) SCALE 15 and observed that in spite of sec. 273 which
requires evidence to be taken in the presence of the accused, it is open to the
court to examine the witness using a video screen in as much as video
recorded evidence has now been held to be admissible by the Supreme
Court in State of Maharashtra vs. Dr. Praful B. Desai 2003(4) SCC 601.
We shall be referring to this case in detail in Chapter V, para 5.17. 2.2.2 Record of evidence in absence of the accused may be taken under
section 299 of the Code. No doubt, this section empowers the Magistrate to
record the deposition of certain witnesses in the absence of the accused.
Such recording of evidence in absence of an accused has been provided
only where an accused person has absconded and there is no immediate
prospect of arresting him. In such cases, the competent court may examine
the witnesses produced on behalf of the prosecution and record their
depositions and such depositions may be given in evidence against him on
the inquiry into or trial for the offence with which the accused is charged, if
the deponent is dead or incapable of giving evidence or cannot be found or
his presence cannot be procured without an amount of delay, expense or
inconvenience which, under the circumstances of the case, would be
unreasonable. 2.2.3 Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that a
Magistrate shall examine upon oath the complainant and the witnesses
present, if any. Under section 202 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in 238 an inquiry, the Magistrate may, if he thinks fit, take evidence of witnesses
on oath. Moreover, section 204 (2) of the Code provides that no summons
or warrant shall be issued against accused unless a list of the prosecution
witnesses has been filed. For the examination of witnesses, the Magistrate
shall fix a date under section 242 in case of warrant cases instituted on
police report and under section 244 in cases other than those based on
police report. 2.2.4 Further, as to right of cross-examination by the accused, it would be
evident on a reading of section 299 of the Code that while the right to cross-
examine the prosecution witnesses is normally guaranteed, there are certain
exceptional circumstances in which an accused may be denied his right to
cross-examine a witness of the prosecution in open court. 2.2.5 In addition to section 299 of the Code, reference may be made to sub-
section (6) of section 173 of the Code. Section 173 which deals with the
report of the police officer on completion of investigation, provides under
sub-section (5) (b), that the police officer shall forward to the Magistrate
along with his report the statements recorded under section 161 of all the
persons whom the prosecution proposes to examine as its witnesses.
However, sub-section (6) of section 173 provides that if the police officer is
of opinion that any part of any such statement is not relevant to the subject-
matter of the proceeding or that its disclosure to the accused is not essential
in the interests of justice and is inexpedient in the public interest, he shall
indicate that part of the statement and append a note requesting the
Magistrate to exclude that part from copies to be granted to the accused and
stating his reasons for making such request. Thus, while the requirement of providing information to the accused
is the rule, the exception to the extent permitted as above under section 173
(6) is limited only to a part of the statement made under section 161 of the
Code and not to the entire statement deposed to by any person including a
prosecution witness under section 161 of the Code. 2.3 Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973: Protection of witnesses

 Coming to the issue of protection of witnesses in a criminal trial, it
would appear that barring rape cases, there are, as of today, no general
statutory provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 on this
subject. Section 327 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 deals 239 with 'in camera proceedings'. This section has laid down clearly that the
inquiry into and trial of rape under section 376 and cases under sections
376A to 376D , Indian Penal Code shall be conducted in camera. This would
enable the victim to be a little more comfortable and answer the questions
frankly which could ultimately improve the quality of evidence of the
prosecutrix or the victims. 2.3.1 The Supreme Court has referred to sec. 327(2) in its judgment in State
of Punjab vs. Gurmit Singh 1996(2) SCC 384 as to the adoption of in
camera proceedings and reiterated the same again in its recent judgment in
Sakshi vs. Union of India: 2003(4) SCC 60, where it stated that sec. 327(2)
applies to inquiry or trial of offences under sections 354 and 377 of IPC and
has vast applications in rape and child abuse cases. We shall refer to this
case in detail in Chapter V, para 5.16. 2.3.2 Further, section 228A of the Indian Penal Code provides that the
Court shall impose a sentence of two years imprisonment and fine upon any
person who prints or publishes the name or any matter which may identify
the person against whom rape has been found or alleged to have been
committed. This protection is given with a view to protect the rape victim's
privacy from general public and so that the media may not cast stigma on
the victim by disclosure of her identity. 2.3.3 Similarly, in the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children)
Act, 2000 section 21 prohibits the publication of name, address or school or
any other particular calculated to lead to the identification of the juvenile. It
also prohibits the publication of the picture of any such juvenile. 2.4 Evidence Act, 1872 : Section 135 provides that the order in which witnesses are produced and
examined shall be regulated by the law and practice for the time being
relating to civil and criminal procedures respectively, and, in the absence of
such law, by the discretion of the Court. The general law as to the testimony
of witnesses in the Code of Criminal Procedure has already been dealt with
in earlier part of this Chapter. 2.4.2 Section 138 of the Evidence Act not only lays down the manner of
examining a particular witness but also impliedly confers on the party, a
right of examination-in-chief, cross-examination and re-examination. The
examination of witnesses is generally indispensable and by means of it, all
facts except the contents of document may be proved. Anybody who is
acquainted with the facts of the case can come forward and give evidence in
the Court. Under the Evidence Act , the right of cross-examination available
to opposite party is a distinct and independent right, if such party desires to
subject the witness to cross-examination. On the importance of the right of
cross-examination, the Supreme Court in Nandram Khemraj vs. State of
M.P. 1995 Cr.L.J. 1270 observed: 2.4.3 Under the Evidence Act , in certain exceptional cases, where cross-
examination is not possible, then the previous deposition of a witness can be
considered relevant in subsequent proceedings. This is provided in section
33 of the Evidence Act. The essential requirements of section 33 are as
follows: The conditions mentioned above must be fulfilled before a previous
deposition can be admitted in evidence, without cross-examination. It is
significant to note as stated in (c) above, that where such deposition is to be
admitted in criminal proceedings, a party against whom a deposition is
tendered must have had a right and full opportunity of cross-examining the
deponent when the deposition was taken. 2.4.4 The aforesaid provisions of the Evidence Act have been designed to
ensure a fair trial to the accused as he is presumed to be innocent till he is
proved guilty beyond reasonable doubt. However, there are instances where
crucial witnesses, i.e., key witnesses or material witnesses, disappear either
before or during a trial or a witness is threatened, abducted or done away
with. These incidents do not happen by accident and the inevitable
consequence is that in many of these matters, the case of the prosecution
fails ( Turnor Morrison & Co. vs. K.N. Tapuria , 1993 Cr.L.J. 3384 Bom.). 2.4.5 On the need for protection of witnesses from harassment on account
of delays, following observations by Justice Wadhwa in Swaran Singh vs.
State of Punjab , AIR 2000 SC 2017 are appropriate: In the same case, Justice Wadhwa further observed: In the above scenario, it is imperative that the provisions of the Evidence Act are required to be looked into afresh to ensure fair trial by
affording protection to a witness so that true and correct facts come up
before the trial Court. 2.4.6 As to the limitation upon the right of cross-examination of the
prosecutrix in rape cases, amendments restricting the scope of cross-
examination, have been made by the Indian Evidence (Amendment) Act,
2002 . This will be discussed in detail in the next paragraph. 2.5 Section 146 (3) of Evidence Act, 1872 introduced in 2002

 Recently, the Indian Evidence (Amendment) Act, 2002 has inserted a
proviso below sub-section (3) of section 146 of the Evidence Act, 1872
thereby giving protection to a victim of rape from unnecessary questioning
her about her past character. The said proviso reads as follows: 2.5.1 It may be recalled that the Law Commission of India in its 185th
Report on Law of Evidence had recommended insertion of a broader
provision by way of a new sub-section (4) in section 146 which reads as
follows: examination of the victim as to her general moral character, or as to
 her previous sexual experience with any person for proving such
 consent or the quality of consent. Explanation: 'Character' includes reputation and disposition." 2.6 Thus, a survey of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code ,
1973 and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 reveals that the accused has a right
of open trial and also a right to cross-examine the prosecution witnesses in
open court. There are a few exceptions to these principles and the
Supreme Court has declared that the right to open trial is not absolute and
video-screening techniques can be employed and such a procedure would
not amount to violation of the right of the accused for open trial. The Code
of Criminal Procedure contains a provision for examination of witnesses in
camera and this provision can be invoked in cases of rape and child abuse.
There is, however, need for extending the benefit of these special provisions
to other cases where the witnesses are either won over or threatened, so that
justice is done not only to the accused but also to victims. CHAPTER III

 PROTECTION OF IDENTITY OF WITNESSES; SPECIAL
 STATUTES IN INDIA

3.1 Protection of identity of witness: Special statutes

 The need for the existence and exercise of a general power to grant
protection to a witness and preserve his or her anonymity in a criminal case
has been universally recognized as being in the interests of the community
and the administration of justice, to ensure that serious offences like
terrorist acts or organized crime are effectively prosecuted and punished. It
is notorious fact that a witness who gives evidence which is unfavourable to
an accused in a trial for (say), a terrorist offence would expose himself to
severe reprisals which can result in death or severe bodily injury to him or
to his family members. While the present Consultation Paper is being
issued for formulating similar procedures in the case of other offences, it is
first necessary to take notice of existing provisions relating to witness
anonymity and prosecution. For the present, we shall therefore refer to
some special statutes dealing with specific types of offences where such
protection is granted. In this Chapter, we propose to refer to these
statutes. 3.2 The West Bengal Act of 1932: exclusion of persons or public from
 Court: The aforesaid provision clearly states that the safety of the witnesses
at trial was considered as a ground for exclusion of public from a criminal
trial. But, it will be noticed that while the main part of the section gives
discretion to the Magistrate to exclude any person or public from the Court,
the proviso gives importance to the certificate of the Public Prosecutor or
Advocate-General for such exclusion and gives little discretion to the Court
in the matter of exclusion of the public or a person from the court-hall. 3.3 TADA 1985 and TADA 1987: Protection of identity

 In view of increase in terrorist activities in recent times, initially, the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1985 and thereafter the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 were enacted.
These Acts contained specific provisions in regard to the protection of
witnesses. Section 13 of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities
(Prevention) Act, 1985 refers to protection of the identity and address of the
witness and in camera proceedings. It reads as follows: section (3) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
 may extend to one year and with fine which may extend to one
 thousand rupees." 3.4 Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 which
followed the Act of 1985 provided likewise for the protection of identity of
witnesses in section 16 with a few charges. Section 16 differed from section
13 of TADA Act, 1985 in two respects. Firstly, whereas it was mandatory
to hold proceedings in camera under section 13 of TADA Act, 1985 the
proceedings could be held in camera under section 16 of TADA Act, 1987
only where the Designated Court so desired. Secondly, sec. 16(3)(d) of the
TADA Act, 1987 empowered a Designated Court to take such measures in
the public interest so as to direct that information in regard to all or any of
the proceedings pending before such a Court shall not be published in any
manner. The provisions of sec. 16 were elaborately considered by the
Supreme Court in Kartar Singh vs. State of Punjab 1994(3) SCC 569. We
shall be referring to that case in detail when we come to Chapter V, in para
5.7. 3.5 POTA 2002: The validity of section 30 has been upheld in PUCL vs. Union of India : It also prohibits the publication of the picture of any such juvenile. 3.7 Present need for a general law on Protection of identity of
 witnesses even in cases which do not relate to terrorism or disruptive
 activities. The above analysis of the state of the statute law, both the general and
special law, shows that there is no general law on protection of identity of
witnesses in criminal cases - apart from the provisions for protection of
witnesses in the special statutes governing terrorist-crimes, such as the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002 etc. In recent times, the cases where
witnesses are turning hostile at trial due to threats, is no longer confined to 248 cases of terrorism. Even in other types of offences falling under the Indian
Penal Code or other special statute, this phenomenon has reached alarming
proportion. There is therefore need, as in other countries, to generally
empower the Court in such cases - where muscle power, political power,
money power or other methods employed against witnesses and victims -
for the purpose of protecting the witnesses so that witnesses could give
evidence without any fear of reprisals and witnesses do not turn hostile on
account of threats by the accused. That, indeed, is the purpose of this
Consultation Paper. Chapter IV

 Earlier Reports of the Law Commission of India

14th Report of Law Commission (1958): 'inadequate arrangements' for
'witnesses': 4.1 In the 14th Report of the Law Commission (1958), 'witness
protection' was considered from a different angle. The Report referred to
inadequate arrangements for witnesses in the Courthouse, the scales of
traveling allowance and daily batta (allowance) paid for witnesses for
attending the Court in response to summons from the Court. This aspect too
is important if one has to keep in mind the enormous increase in the expense
involved and the long hours of waiting in Court with tension and attending
numerous adjournments. Here the question of giving due respect to the
witness's convenience, comfort and compensation for his sparing valuable
time is involved. If the witness is not taken care of, he or she is likely to
develop an attitude of indifference to the question of bringing the offender
to justice. 4.2 Between 1958 and 2004, there has been a total change in the crime
scene, in as much as, not only crime has increased and cases of convictions
have drastically fallen, but there is more sophistication in the manner of
committing offences for, today, the offender too has the advantages of
advances in technology and science. There are now more hostile witnesses
than before and the witnesses are provided allurements or are tampered with
or purchased and if they remain firm, they are pressurized or threatened or 250 even eliminated. Rape and sexual offence cases appear to be the worst
affected by these obnoxious methods. 4.3 Fourth Report of the National Police Commission (1980): handicaps
of witnesses: The Police Commission also referred to the meagre daily allowance
payable to witnesses for appearance in the Courts. It referred to a sample
survey carried out in 18 Magistrates' Courts in one State, which revealed
that out of 96,815 witnesses who attended the Courts during the particular
period, only 6697 were paid some allowance and even for such payment, an
elaborate procedure had to be gone through. 4.4 154th Report of the Law Commission (1996): Lack of facilities and
wrath of accused referred: The following points emerge from the above recommendations: 4.5 172nd Report of the Law Commission (2000) : Reference by
Supreme Court to the Law Commission: screen technique: The Law Commission discussed the issues raised by the petitioner
with Petitioner NGO and other women organizations. The Commission also
requested 'Sakshi' and other organizations to submit their written
suggestions for amendment of procedural laws as well as the substantial
law. Accordingly, these women organizations submitted their suggestions
for amendment of Cr.P.C. and the Evidence Act and also I.P.C . One of the
views put forward by the organizations was that a minor complainant of
sexual assault shall not have to give his/her oral evidence in the presence of
the accused, as this will traumatic to the minor. It was suggested that
appropriate changes in the law should be made for giving effect to this
provision. It was further suggested that a minor's testimony in a case of child
sexual abuse should be recorded at the earliest possible opportunity in the 254 presence of a judge and the child-support person, which may include a
family friend, relative or social worker whom the minor trusts. For the
purpose of proper implementation of the above suggestion, it was urged that
the court should take steps to ensure that at least one of the following
methods is adopted: The Commission considered the above suggestions along with other issues
raised and the order of the Supreme Court and gave its 172nd Report on 25th
March, 2000. In respect of the suggestion that a minor who has been
assaulted sexually, should not be required to give his/her evidence in the
presence of the accused and he or she may be allowed to testify behind the
screen, the Law Commission referred to section 273 of the Cr.P.C., which
requires that 'except as otherwise expressly provided, all evidence taken in
the course of a trial or other proceeding, shall be taken in the presence of the
accused or when his personal attendance is dispensed with, in the presence
of his pleader'. The Law Commission took the view that his general
principle, which is founded upon natural justice, should not be done away 255 with altogether in trials and enquiries concerning sexual offence. However,
in order to protect the child witness the Commission recommended that it
may be open to the prosecution to request the Court to provide a screen in
such a manner that the victim does not see the accused, while at the same
time providing an opportunity to the accused to listen to the testimony of the
victim and give appropriate instructions to his advocate for an effective
cross-examination. Accordingly, the Law Commission in para 6.1 of its
172nd Report recommended for insertion of a proviso to section 273 of the
Cr.P.C. 1973 to the following effect: In respect of other suggestions mentioned above, made by Sakshi
organization, the Law Commission expressed its view that these suggestions
were impracticable and could not be accepted. 178th Report of the Law Commission (2001): preventing witnesses turning
hostile: 4.6 However, it is to be noted that the Law Commission, in the above
Report, did not suggest any measures for the physical protection of
witnesses from the 'wrath of the accused' nor deal with the question
whether the identity of witnesses can be kept secret and if so, in what
manner the Court could keep the identity secret and yet comply with the
requirements of enabling the accused or his counsel to effectively cross
examine the witness so that the fairness of the judicial procedure is not
sacrificed. 4.7 The Criminal Law (Amendment) Bill, 2003: preventing witnesses
turning hostile: PART II

 WITNESS IDENTITY PROTECTION Vs. RIGHTS OF ACCUSED

 Chapter V

 PROTECTION OF IDENTITY OF WITNESSES Vs. RIGHTS OF
 ACCUSED - PRINCIPLES OF LAW DEVELOPED
 BY THE SUPREME COURT AND THE HIGH COURTS

5.1 Introduction: The primary object of criminal procedure is to bring offenders to
book and to ensure a fair trial to accused persons. Every criminal trial
begins with the presumption of innocence in favour of the accused; and, in
India, the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 are so framed
that a criminal trial should begin with and be throughout governed by this
essential presumption. A fair trial has two objectives in view, i.e. first, it
must be fair to the accused and secondly, it must also be fair to the
prosecution or the victims. Thus, it is of utmost importance that in a
criminal trial, witnesses should be able to give evidence without any
inducement, allurement or threat either from the prosecution or the defence. These judgments of the Supreme Court have laid down various rules
or guidelines for protection of witnesses but they cannot and are not
complete and, in any event, cannot be as effective as the provisions of a
special statute on the subject would otherwise be. We have already stated in
Chapter I that in a vast number of countries, the problem is attempted to be
solved by enacting legislation. But until appropriate legislation is made,
judgments of Courts will certainly be helpful. Courts have also suggested
that appropriate statutory provisions should be made to protect the rights of
witnesses and victims on the one hand and the rights of the accused to a fair
trial, on the other. We shall now refer to the case law in India in this behalf. 5.3 Gurbachan Singh's case (sec. 27 of the Greater Bombay Police Act,
1902) (1952)

 In 1952, in Gurbachan Singh vs. State of Bombay (AIR 1952 SC 221) decided by the Supreme Court, the challenge was to an order of 260 externment passed against the appellant (writ petitioner), a resident of
Bombay, to the effect that he should shift to Amritsar, (later modified as a
shift to Kalyan), so that witnesses may depose freely against him in
Bombay. The order was passed by the Commissioner of Police under sec.
27 of the Greater Bombay Police Act, 1902 (which is now replaced by the Bombay Police Act, 1951 ). That section permitted the Commissioner to
direct any person to remove himself outside the State or to such place within
the State and by such route and within such time as the Commissioner shall
prescribe and not to enter the State or, as the case may be, the Greater
Bombay, if it appears to the Commissioner: One of the contentions of the appellant was that section 27 which permitted
the Court to order the accused to be removed outside the State or to another
place within the State, imposed an unreasonable restriction on the appellant
violating Art. 19(1)(d) of the Constitution of India and was not saved by 261 clause (5) of Art 19. The Supreme Court upheld sec. 27 and rejected the
challenge to its validity, and observed as follows: The Supreme Court also held that the procedure in the Act which denied
permission to be present when the witness was cross-examined was not
unreasonable. The law was an extraordinary one and was made only to deal
with exceptional cases where witnesses, for fear of violence to their person
or property, were unwilling to depose publicly against bad characters whose
presence in certain areas might constitute a menace to the safety of the
public residing there. This object would be wholly defeated if a right to
confront or cross examine these witnesses was given to the suspect. The
power under sec 27 was vested in a high dignitary and was justified. It
should be noted that the Court treated the procedure as valid as it was not
necessary before Maneka Gandhi 's case, to go into the question whether the
procedure was 'fair'. 5.4 Talab Haji Hussain Case: (cancellation of bail): (1958)

 The facts in Talab Haji Hussain vs. Madhukar Purushottam Mondkar : The cancellation of bail was justified on the basis of the conduct of the
accused subsequent to release on bail. 5.5 Harpreet Kaur's Case (Preventive detention) (1992) 263 This case, Harpreet Kaur v. State of Maharashtra , AIR 1992 SC 779
arose under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of
Slumlords, Bootleggers and Drug offenders Act (1981). An order of
preventive detention was passed against the detenu for indulging in
transportion of illicit liquor and keeping arms with him while transporting
liquor. He was also creating fear psychosis. Four witnesses, on condition
of anonymity gave statements to the police and clearly stated that they
would not depose against the detenu for fear of retaliation as the detenu had
threatened to do away with anyone who would depose against him. The
Supreme Court held that the activities of the detenu affected the even tempo
of the society by creating a feeling of insecurity among those who were
likely to depose against him as also the law enforcement agencies. The fear
psychosis created by the detenu in the minds of the witnesses was aimed at
letting the crime go unpunished. These activities, it was held, fell within sec. 2(a) of the Act, as to permit the detenu's preventive detention in the
interests of maintaining 'public order'. 5.6 Francis v. Banka Bihau Singh (1958): (case transferred anticipating
communal violence) The preserving of a congenial atmosphere for the
conduct of a fair trial has been viewed as imperative by the superior courts.
If the atmosphere is surcharged with tension on account of the hostility
between the parties, or within the community, it is bound to have impact on
the fairness of the trial. The necessity for ensuring protection of witnesses
assumes significance in this context as well. This case in Francis and the
next one relating to Maneka Gandhi state that if there are serious local
tensions which are likely to preclude a fair trial, the case can be transferred 264 for trial to a distant place. These cases were followed recently in NHRC
case also (see para 5.14). 5.7 In G.X. Francis vs. Banke Bihari Singh, A.I.R. 1958 SC 209 the
Supreme Court was deciding a transfer petition filed under section 527 of
the Cr.P.C. 1898 for the transfer of a criminal case from Jashpuranagar, in
the state of Madhya Pradesh, to some other State, preferably New Delhi or
Orissa. The complainant in the case was a member of the royal family of
Jashpur, who used to reside at Jashpurnagar. All the seven accused, except
one, were Roman Catholics and the other one was a Jacobite Christian. One
of the grounds for asking transfer of the case was that there was bitterness
among the communities of the accused and the complainants i.e. Christians
and Hindus, in the area of Jashpurnagar. In view of the unanimity of
testimony from both sides about the nature of surcharged tension in
Jashpurnagar, the Supreme Court ordered transfer of the case from
Jashpurangar to the State of Orissa, for fair trial . Vivian Bose J, speaking
for the Court observed: 5.8 Maneka Sanjay Gandhi 's case (1979): transfer of case can be made if
there are local tensions: The Supreme Court in Maneka Sanjay Gandhi vs.
Rani Jethmalani (1979) 4 SCC 167 stressed the need for a congenial
atmosphere for fair and impartial trial. Krishna Iyer J while defining the
need for congenial atmosphere for a fair and impartial trial, observed at para
5: 5.9 Kartar Singh 's case: ( sec. 16 of TADA)(1994) 266 Kartar Singh vs. State of Punjab 1994(3) SCC 569 is a landmark and
is a case nearest to the subject matter of this Consultation Paper. That case
was dealing with the provisions of section 16(2) and (3) of the Terrorist and
Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 . Sec. 16(2) gives discretion to
the Designated Court to keep the identity and address of any witness secret
on the following three contingencies: If neither the witness nor the Public Prosecutor has made an
application in that behalf nor the Court has taken any decision of its own,
then the identity and address of the witnesses have to be furnished to the
accused. The measures are to be taken by the Designated Court under any
of the above contingencies so that a witness may not be subjected to any
harassment for speaking against the accused. Section 16(3) refers to the measures that the Court without prejudice
to its general power under section 16(2) , may take. These include: Subsection (4) of section 16 refers to the punishment that can be imposed
for contravention of any direction issued under subsection (3). It says that
such persons shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year and with fine which may extend to Rs. 1000/-. In Kartar Singh, the Supreme Court upheld the special provision
envisaged in section 16(2) and (3) stating as follows: (pp 688-689)

 "Generally speaking, when the accused persons are of bad character,
 the witnesses are unwilling to come forward to depose against such
 persons fearing harassment at the hands of those accused. The
 persons who are put for trial under this Act are terrorists and
 disruptionists. Therefore, the witnesses will all the more be reluctant
 and unwilling to depose at the risk of their life. The Parliament,
 having regard to such extraordinary circumstances has thought it fit
 that the identity and addresses of the witnesses be not disclosed in
 any one of the above contingencies." The Supreme Court then referred to the provision of section 228A of
the Indian Penal Code, (inserted in 1983) which states that disclosure of the
identity of the 'victims' of certain offences, (sections 376, 376A, 376B,
376C, 376D) as contemplated by sub-section (1) of that section is
punishable but will be subject to sub-section (2). Sub-section (2) states that
nothing in subsection (1) shall extend to any printing or publication of the
name of any person which may make known the identity of the victim if
such printing or publication is made: Subsection (3) of section 228A of the Indian Penal Code states that whoever
prints or publishes any matter in relation to any proceeding before a Court
with respect to an offence referred to in subsection (1) without the previous
permission of such Court shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to two years and shall also be
liable to fine. Explanation below sub-section (3) states that the printing or
publication of the judgment of any High Court or the Supreme Court does
not amount to an offence within the meaning of the section. The Supreme Court (p. 689) then explained the permissible
restrictions upon the right of the accused to cross-examine the prosecution
witnesses, as follows: The following final observation of the Supreme Court in Kartar Singh's
case (para 290) is important: 5.10 Delhi Domestic Women's Forum case (SC)(1995): As
compared to statutory provisions, the judicial pronouncements have gone
far ahead in protecting the witnesses and more particularly the protection of
victim's witness as in the case of a rape. In the Delhi Domestic Working
Women's Forum vs. Union of India (1995) 1 SCC 14, the Supreme Court,
while indicating the broad parameters that can assist the victims of rape,
emphasized that in all rape trials "anonymity" of the victims must be
maintained as far as necessary so that the name is shielded from the media
and public. The Court also observed that the victims invariably found the
trial of an offence of rape trial a traumatic experience. The experience of
giving evidence in court has been negative and destructive and the victims
have often expressed that they considered the ordeal of facing cross-
examination in the criminal trial to be even worse than the rape itself. 5.11 Swaran Singh 's case: (Plight of witnesses in criminal cases) (2000) 271 The expenses payable to witnesses provided in sec. 312 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 came up for discussion in Swaran Singh vs.
State of Punjab AIR 2000 SC 2017. The Supreme Court (Wadhwa J)
described the plight of witnesses in criminal courts as follows: 5.12 Shambhu Nath Singh 's case: (criminal trial on day to day basis (2001)

 The Supreme Court stated in State of UP vs. Shambhu Nath Singh 2001 (4) SCC 667 that section 309 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
requires that the criminal trial must proceed from day to day and should not
be adjourned unless 'special' reasons are recorded by the Court. In that
case, after several adjournments, PW1 was not examined even when
present. The Supreme Court observed: 5.13 NHRC vs. State of Gujarat: (Best Bakery Case) (2003): need for law
of witness protection: There, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) filed a
public interest case seeking retrial on the ground that the witnesses were
pressurised by the accused to go back on their earlier statements and the
trial was totally vitiated. In its order dated 8.8.2003 NHRC vs, State of
Gujarat (2003(9) SCALE 329), the Supreme Court observed: Then, on the question of protection of witnesses, the Supreme Court
referred to the absence of a statute on the subject, as follows: The Court directed that in the counter-affidavit of the Gujarat Government,
it should indicate the steps, if any, taken by it for extending protection to the
lives of victims, their families and their relations; if not, the same should be
done. The Court also wanted to know whether any action had been taken by
the Gujarat Government against those who had allegedly extended threats of
coercion to the witnesses, as a result whereof the witnesses had changed
their statements before the Court. The Court also directed the Union of 274 India to inform the Court about the proposals, if any, "to enact a law for
grant of protection to the witnesses as is prevalent in several countries". By a subsequent order passed on 12th July, 2004, the Supreme Court
issued directions to all States and Union Territories to give suggestions for
formulation of appropriate guidelines in the matter. 5.14` Ms. Neelam Katara case (Delhi High Court): (2003) Guidelines for
 witness protection issued: The above guidelines laid down by the Delhi High Court are the first
of its kind in the country and have to be commended. But, they deal only
with one aspect of the matter, namely, protection of the witnesses. They do
however not deal with the manner in which a witness's identity can be kept
confidential either before or during trial nor to the safeguards which have to
be provided to ensure that the accused's right to a fair trial is not
jeopardized. 5.15 Bimal Kaur Khalsa 's case (P&H High Court, Full Bench): Protection
 of witnesses from media: (1988)

 We shall next refer to the Full Bench judgment of the High Court of
Punjab and Haryana in Bimal Kaur Khalsa case AIR 1988 P&H p. 95. In
that case, it was observed that neither the Court nor the government can
ensure the 'total safety' of a prosecution witness. A witness deposing in a
criminal case does so with a sense of public duty. The Court can however
take steps to stop the dissemination of information regarding the identity
and address of the witness ensuring that the name, address and identity of
the witness are not given publicly in the media. Even this judgment does not deal with all the aspects relating to
witness protection. 5.16 PUCL case: Witness protection under sec.30 of the POTA (2003)

 In PUCL vs. Union of India : 2003 (10) SCALE 967, where the
validity of several provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002 (POTA), came up for consideration, the Supreme Court considered the
validity of section 30 of the Act which deals with 'protection of witnesses'. The provisions of section 30 are similar to those in section 16 of the TADA,
1987, which were upheld in Kartar Singh 's case already referred to above . In PUCL, the Court referred to Gurubachan Singh vs. State of Bombay 1952
SCR 737, and other cases, and observed that one cannot shy away from the
reality that several witnesses do not come to depose before the Court in
serious cases due to fear of their life. Under sec. 30 a fair balance between
the rights and interests of witnesses, the rights of the accused and larger
public interest has, it was held, been maintained. It was held that section
30 was also aimed to assist the State in the administration of justice and to
encourage others to do the same under given circumstances. Anonymity of
witnesses is to be provided only in exceptional circumstances when the
Special Court is satisfied that the life of witnesses is in jeopardy. The Court in PUCL has pointed out that the need for existence and
exercise of power to grant protection to a witness and preserve his or her
identity in a criminal trial has been universally recognized. A provision of
this nature should not be looked at merely from the angle of protection of
the witness whose life may be in danger if his or her identity is disclosed but
also in the interests of the community to ensure that heinous offences like
terrorist acts are effectively prosecuted and persons found guilty are 278 punished and to prevent reprisals. Under compelling circumstances, the
disclosure of identity of the witnesses can be dispensed with by evolving a
mechanism which complies with natural justice and this ensures a fair trial.
The reasons for keeping the identity and address of a witness secret are
required to be recorded in writing and such reasons should be weighty. A
mechanism can be evolved whereby the Special Court is obliged to satisfy
itself about the truthfulness and reliability of the statement or deposition of
the witness whose identity is sought to be protected. On the subject of protection of identity of witnesses, section 30 of the
Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002 is similar to section 16 of the Terrorist
and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987. It is necessary to advert
to the contentions raised in the case. While challenging the constitutional
validity of section 30 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002 in People's Union of Civil Liberties vs. Union of India (2003) 10 SCALE 967, the
petitioner (PUCL) argued as follows: Responding on behalf of Union of India, the learned Attorney-
General for India submitted as follows: In PUCL, the Supreme Court speaking through Justice Rajendra Babu
observed (in para 57) as follows: The Court further observed (in para 59) as follows: Finally, the Court while upholding the validity of section 30 ,
observed (in para 62) as follows: In PUCL, the attention of the Court was drawn to the legal position in
USA, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and UK, as well as the view
expressed in the European Court of Human Rights in various decisions.
However, the Court did not consider it necessary to refer to any of them in
detail because the legal position has been fully set out and explained in Kartar Singh 's case. It was stated further in PUCL that the effort of the Court is to strike a
balance between the right of the witness as to his life and liberty and the
right of the community in the effective prosecution of persons guilty of
heinous criminal offences on the one hand and the right of the accused to a
fair trial, on the other. The Court observed: (p 993)

 "This is done by devising a mechanism or arrangement to preserve
 anonymity of the witness when there is an identifiable threat to the 281 life or physical safety of the witness or others whereby the Court
 satisfies itself about the weight to be attached to the evidence of the
 witness. In some jurisdictions, an independent counsel has been
 appointed for the purpose to act as amicus curiae and after going
 through the deposition evidence assist the Court in forming an
 opinion about the weight of the evidence in a given case or in
 appropriate cases to be cross-examined on the basis of the question
 formulated and given to him by either of the parties. Useful reference
 may be made in this context to the recommendation of the Law
 Commission of New Zealand." While elaborating further the need for keeping the identity of the witness
secret, the Court observed: (p 994)

 "...It is not feasible for us to suggest the procedure that has to be
 adopted by the Special Courts for keeping the identity of witness
 secret." 5.17 Sakshi case (2004)

 The Supreme Court in Sakshi vs. Union of India 2004 (6) SCALE 15
referred to the argument of the petitioner that in case of child sexual abuse,
there should be special provisions in the law to the following effect:- During the pendency of the case in Sakshi, the Supreme Court requested the
Law Commission to examine the question as to the expansion of the
definition of rape. The Commission gave its 172nd Report dealing with
various aspects of the problem. Details of the Report have been set out in
Chapter IV para 4.5. The Supreme Court in Sakshi, after receipt of the Report of the Law
Commission (172nd Report, Chapter VI), did not accept the above said
arguments of the petitioner in view of sec. 273 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure as, in its opinion, the principle of the said section of examining
witnesses in the presence of the accused, is founded on natural justice and
cannot be done away with in trials and inquiries concerning sexual offences.
The Supreme Court however pointed out that the Law Commission had
observed that in an appropriate case, it may be open to the prosecution to
request the Court to provide a screen in such a manner that the victim does
not see the accused and at the same time provide an opportunity to the
accused to listen to the testimony of the victim and the Court could give
appropriate instructions to his counsel for an effective cross examination.
The Law Commission had also suggested that with a view to allay any
apprehensions on this score, a proviso could be placed above the
Explanation to sec. 273 Cr.P.C to the following effect: "Provided that where 283 the evidence of a person below 16 years who is alleged to have been
subjected to sexual assault or any other sexual offence, is to be recorded, the
Court may, take appropriate measures to ensure that such person is not
confronted by the accused while at the same time ensuring the right of cross
examination of the accused". In para 31 and 32 the Supreme Court
observed as follows: The Court in Sakshi referred to State of Punjab vs. Gurmit Singh 1996(2) SCC 384 where the Supreme Court had highlighted the importance
of section 327(2) and (3) of the Cr.P.C . which require evidence to be
recorded in camera in relation to holding rape and other sexual offences. The Court gave the following directions, in addition to those given in Gurmit Singh 's case, namely,
 (1) The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 327 Cr.P.C. shall, in addition to the offences mentioned 285 in that sub-section, would also apply in inquiry or
 trial of offences under sections 354 and 377 IPC. (2) In holding trial of child sex abuse or rape: the accused, in so far as they relate directly to the
 incident, should be given in writing to the
 Presiding Officer of the Court who may put them
 to the victim or witnesses in a language which is
 clear and is not embarrassing; (iii) the victim of child abuse or rape, while giving
 testimony in court, should be allowed sufficient
 breaks as and when required. Finally, the Court in Sakshi added that cases of child abuse and rape
are increasing with alarming speed and appropriate legislation in this regard
is, therefore urgently required. They observed: 5.18 Zahira's case, 2004 (4) SCALE 373: Protection of witnesses 286 This is also one of the most recent cases. In this case, the Supreme
Court dealt with 'witness protection' and the need for a fair trial, whereby
fairness is meted out not only to the accused but to the victims/witnesses.
On the question of 'witness protection', the Court observed (p.392): (Page 394): (Page 395): (Page 399)[Referring to UK]: 5.19 Other illustrative cases

 We may also refer, by way of illustration, to a few cases in which the
Indian Courts have given witness protection: Patia carnage in 2002, who was also a key witness in the
 case, had been beaten brutally by a group of 30 people
 while he was sitting outside his shop in Vatva. Three of
 his children were killed. According to him, one Ahmed,
 an anti-social element of that locality, was shouting and
 threatening if the victim was venturing to give evidence
 before the Nanavati Commission on 1.10.2003 naming
 the persons in the mob. He was given one police guard
 for his protection. (b) Ketan Thirodkar, an ex-journalist, had filed a complaint
 against the police alleging various illegal acts against the
 police and referring to their links with the underworld.
 He filed a petition in the Bombay High Court seeking
 police protection. The prosecution opposed the plea
 contending that Thirodkar had also links with the
 underworld. He was given protection for a limited
 period by the Court. (Treatment and Protection of
 Witnesses in India by Mr. Dhruv Desai, 4th Year Law
 student, Symbiosis Society's Law College, Pune in
 http://legalsauaeindia.com/articles/witness.htm). 5.20 Summary: Need to evolve proposals for a statute for witness
 protection

 In the context of the above discussion and in particular the
 observations of the Supreme Court in the above cases, emphasizing
 that there should be statutes governing witness protection in our
 country, we are making proposals in the Consultation Paper. Chapter VI

 WITNESS ANONYMITY AND BALANCING OF
 RIGHTS OF ACCUSED - A COMPARATIVE STUDY OF
 CASE LAW IN OTHER COUNTRIES

6.1 In this Chapter, we propose to deal with the principles
laid down in the judgments of various countries, namely,
the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the
United States of America and of the European Court of
Human Rights and also the decisions of the United
Nation's War Crime Tribunals for Yugoslavia and Rwanda,
on the question of witness protection and anonymity. A
survey of the case law will bring about common aspects as
well as the sharp differences in the law laid down in
various countries and will also reveal the manner in which
the Courts and Tribunals have tried to balance the rights of
the accused for a fair trial (which includes right to an open
public trial and right to cross examine the witness) on the
one hand and the need to grant adequate witness protection
or anonymity to witnesses, and in particular about their
names and addresses and other details relating to their
identity. (a) 6.2 United Kingdom: public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and
 impartial tribunal established by law. Judgment shall be pronounced
 publicly but the press and public may be excluded from all or part of
 the trial in the interest of morals, public order or national security in a
 democratic society, where the interest of juveniles or the protection of
 the private life of the parties so require, or to the extent strictly
 necessary in the opinion of the Court in special circumstances where
 publicity would prejudice the interest of justice." 6.2.1 Scott vs. Scott (1913): Principle of "open justice" and exceptions
 thereto: The Crown Court Rules provide for the exercise of certain kinds of
jurisdiction in Chambers to permit evidence excluding the public (Rule 27),
such as where national security is involved or cases falling under section 8
(4) of the Official Secrets Act, 1920. This latter Act permits the Court to
exclude members of the public from the Court in the trial of offences under
the said Act on the ground that the publication of evidence could prejudice
national safety. However, it states that the passing of the sentence must be
in public. In Youth Courts, the public are excluded but the press is admitted
under section 47(2) of the Children and Young Persons Act, 1933. In some
cases, an order restricting the reporting of all or part of the proceedings may
suffice. This is permitted by section 11 of the Contempt of Courts Act,
1981. A Court can, under section 4(2) of that Act, also postpone
publication of Court proceedings, where it is necessary to avoid risk of
prejudice to the administration of justice; the Court can prohibit publication
of identity of a child or young person under 18 years and also in appropriate
cases, the names, identity of victims of rape and other sexual offences. 6.2.2 We shall next refer to certain leading cases decided after Scott,
chronologically. It has been held that the names of allegedly blackmailed witnesses in
a case of blackmail may be withheld (R vs. Socialist Worker Printers etc. ex
parte. Attorney Gen: 1975 QB 637. It has been pointed out that there may
be cases in which it is necessary to exclude the public from the court though
not the press; (R vs. Walterfield : (1975) 60 Crl Ap. Rep 296). 6.2.3 "Leveller Magazine" case (1979) - 'anonymity' order under statutory
or inherent power of Court

 In UK, the power of the Court to withhold the name of the witness in
a criminal trial is treated as inherent in the Court. Such a power may also be
conferred by statute. Attorney General vs. Leveller Magazine (1979 A.C. 440) arose under
the Contempt of Courts Act which was in force before the 1981 Act. In
certain committal proceedings of Nov. 1977, in relation to offences under
the Official Secrets Act , the Magistrate initially allowed an application filed
by the prosecution seeking that the prosecution witness be described as
'Colonel B' and that his actual name should be known only to the
defendants and their counsel and the Court, for reasons of national safety.
But, the said prohibition was violated and consequently proceedings under
the Contempt of Courts Act were taken out by the Attorney General against
the press which published the evidence given in the criminal proceedings.
The defence in the contempt case was that "Col B" had, in fact, disclosed
his real name and address at the criminal trial and that therefore, he must be
deemed to have waived the protection given to him under the order for
anonymity. This contention was ultimately accepted and it was held that
there was no contempt. But during the course of the judgment, Lord
Diplock laid down the general principle of open justice and pointed out that
there could be exceptions to that principle of open trial either by statute or
under the inherent powers of the Court. Lord Diplock stated (p. 450): (emphasis supplied)

 In the course of the judgment, Lord Diplock referred to the decision
of the Court of Appeal of New Zealand in Taylor vs. Att. Gen:1975(2)
NZLR 675 to the effect that the Court had inherent power to make an
express order directing to what extent the proceedings should be published
or not published outside Court. 6.2.4 Section 11 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1981: 6.2.8 Cases after 1990: In R vs. Watford ex parte Lehman (1993) Crim LR 388 where a
group of youths had rampaged through Watford and violently attacked four
people, witnesses had serious concerns about their personal safety. The
Divisional Court followed Lord Lane CJ's observations referred to above
and upheld the decision of the trial Judge to allow the witnesses to give
evidence anonymously at the committal stage, by screening them from the
defendant but not counsel. Their voices were disguised, and their names
were withheld from the defence. In another case in R vs. Taylor (Gary): (1995) Crim LR 253, (CA),
the Court of Appeal upheld a decision of the trial court directing witnesses 298 to be given anonymity. The witness's evidence was crucial as it provided
the only independent corroboration of the removal of the victim's body from
the pub where the murder allegedly took place. The judgment in the case
referred to the last two cases referred to above. The Court held that for
maintaining the appropriate balance, the following factors must be satisfied
before an order for witness's anonymity can be granted: In 1996, the judgment in Taylor's case has been followed in R vs. Liverpool
City Magistrates' Court ex parte Director of Public Instruction: ( CO 1148
Queen's Bench Division, d. 19.7.96)(Bedlam LJ (Smith J). R vs. Ward : 1993(2) ALL ER 577. R vs. Ward , 1993(2) ALL ER 577 decided by the Court of Appeal
laid down that the prosecution was bound to disclose all evidence which it
had, to the accused and, if indeed, it wanted to claim public interest
immunity on the ground of national security or danger to witnesses' life, it
should leave the matter to the Court to give a decision on the question of
such non-disclosure and that the prosecution could not itself be the Judge of
such questions. In that case which involved the death of several persons by
bomb explosion, the accused, a lady, was finally acquitted by the Court of
Appeal, reversing the conviction by the trial Court, because the decision as
to non-disclosure of several pieces of evidence to the accused on the ground
of public interest immunity, ought not to have been taken by the prosecution
and that hence the trial was not fair to the accused. 6.2.9 Montgomery (1995): an unjust decision: There was, in fact, an earlier precedent to the contrary before the
above case in Montgomery was decided. In an earlier case in Action
Justices and Others (1991) 92 Cr App. R 98(105), Watkin L J in the Court
of Appeal observed: and he said it was sufficient that the Court is sure that the witness is in fear
as a consequence of the commission of the material offence or of something 301 said or done subsequently in relation to that offence and the possibility of
the witness testifying to it. But, in spite of the above precedent, the Court of Appeal, in
Montgomery, confirmed the conviction but merely reduced the sentence of
imprisonment to three months. The reduction of sentence from twelve
months to three months was on the basis that the relatives and supporters of
the ten accused were in the gallery when Mr. Montgomery refused to give
evidence. The judgment has been widely criticized. Nicholas Reville
observes: (see 'The Fearful Witness' in (1995) Vol. 145, New Law Journal
p. 1774): 6.2.10 North Ireland Bloody Sunday cases and "Diplock Courts": Lord Woolf observed: (at p.882)

 "When what is at stake is the safety of the former soldiers and their
 families, adopting Lord Diplock's approach, the risk is extremely
 significant. After all, the individual's right to life is, as Lord Bridge
 stated in Bugdaycay vs. Secy. of State for Home Department 1987(1)
 All ER 940 (952), the most fundamental of all human rights......" and concluded: Lord Saville of Newdigate II: Venue Case (19.12.2001)

 This case decided by the Court of Appeal reversed the decision of
Lord Saville Tribunal, to conduct the inquiry in Ireland and consequently
the original venue at London as decided by Lord Widgery was restored.
This case lays down principles of law as to when the trial at the place of
occurrence of the crime, can be shifted outside. This case reported in Lord Saville of Newdigate & others vs. Widgey
Soldiers & others: 2002(1)WLR 1249 = (2001 EWCA (19.12.2001)(CA)
2048 is known as the "venue" case. It was decided by Lord Philips MR,
Lord Justice Jonathan Parker, Lord Justice Dyson. The case arose out of the proceedings of the Lord Saville Tribunal
subsequent to the judgment referred to earlier in this para, namely, R vs.
Lord Saville of Newdigate Exp A: 1999(4) All ER 860. It appears that
earlier, Lord Widgery Tribunal had fixed the venue for trial to be at London
rather than at Londonderry in Ireland, but the Lord Saville Tribunal shifted
it to Londonderry in N. Ireland, purportedly to enable the family members
of Irish victims to witness the open trial in Ireland. This was challenged
successfully by the soldiers before the Administrative Court. They
contended that once the venue was fixed at London, there must be
'compelling reasons' to shift the venue from London to Londonderry. This
plea was accepted. The Lord Saville Tribunal appealed before the Court of
Appeal. The reasoning of the Court of Appeal, while affirming the decision of
the Administrative Court, was as follows. It referred to the earlier judgment
of Lord Woolf dt. 28.7.99 in Newdigate where the Court of Appeal had held
that the soldiers had reasonable grounds for fearing for their lives if they
were identified and that in those circumstances, and once that was prima
facie proved, the Tribunal had to demonstrate that there were compelling
reasons for naming them and not giving them anonymity. On the same
lines, it was now held that there must be 'compelling reasons' as to why the
witnesses should give evidence at Londonderry in Ireland rather than at
London. There were good grounds for evidence being recorded at London -
away from Londonderry in Ireland,- in as much as the witnesses' life would
not be in danger in London and they would not be under any mental stress.
The procedure must be fair to the witnesses too. The Court of Appeal stated, "The majority in Londonderry and that
majority includes the families of those who were killed or injured on Bloody
Sunday, wish the inquiry well and are anxious that it should continue to be
peacefully held in Londonderry. It is, however, common ground that there
were, in Londonderry in particular but also elsewhere, dissident Republican
elements who are not prepared to observe the cease-fire, but are anxious to
disrupt the peace process.... These elements pose a threat to the inquiry and
those who are or will be taking part in it, and in particular, the soldier
witnesses. The security agencies considered that this threat is "sufficiently
real and imminent" to call for precautionary measures". The soldiers here, it was held, have a subjective element of fear which
was relevant. Their subjective fear had to be assessed and it was to be seen
if their fear could be alleviated in case they gave evidence at a place other
than Londonderry. This balancing exercise was for the Court. As the
Administrative Court observed, if heavy security was arranged at
Londonderry, it might be treated as a hostile and intimidating environment
by witnesses. The witnesses, if indeed they had to go to Londonderry,
would go there with a subjective fear. Recent events showed that violence
might indeed increase. The Court observed: Changing the venue, it was held, would not affect the Tribunal's
capacity to arrive at the truth. The families of deceased or injured could see
from Londonderry what transpired at London in as much as facilities would
be put in place for that purpose. "There would be live video-linkage to
Londonderry. The public confidence will not be eroded by holding a part of
the inquiry in London." Donaughy Re Application for Judicial Review: (2002) NICA
 (8.5.2002)

 This is a further continuation of the second Newdigate case.
 The case dealt with the need to use of 'screening' techniques to
 protect the safety of "police" witnesses, while they deposed at
 London. This appeal was before the Court of Appeal in Northern
 Ireland and was against the decision of the Queen's Bench
 Division (Kerry J). The earlier cases related to evidence of the
 "military" officers who had fired and whose safety was involved.
 The present case involved "police" witnesses living in Ireland. The Tribunal had accepted 'screening' the police witnesses while
 deposing at London and had held: The appellant sought the quashing of the decision of the Tribunal allowing
police officers to give evidence from behind screens. The Court of Appeal affirmed 'screening' and observed as
 follows:- The "police" witnesses, it was observed, live in Northern Ireland and
hundreds of their colleagues had died due to terrorist activity over the last
30 years. If they are not to be screened, they will be easily identified by
their names which are known. The subjective fear was genuine. The
police witnesses, no doubt, will not be seen by the family members of the
deceased or wounded persons but will be certainly visible to their lawyers,
the Tribunal and the family members can hear the replies of the police
witnesses. Screening them to this limited extent will not prejudice a fair
trial. Thus, these various judgments lay down that the Court has inherent
power to order evidence to be recorded by video-screening protecting the
witnesses or the accused. 6.2.13 In 1992, Guidelines were issued by the Attorney General in UK (see
1982(1) All ER 734) (which included non disclosure where witnesses' life
could be endangered). For other cases, R vs. Trevor Douglas: (1993) 97
Crl. Appeal Reports 342; R vs.Davis, Johnson and Rowe: 1993(1) Weekly
Law Rep. 613 (non disclosure can be permitted in ex parte proceedings); R
vs. Rasheed : (20 May 1994, Times); R vs. Winston Brown 1995(1) crl. App. Rep. 191; R vs. Turner : 1995(1) W.LR 264. 6.2.14 Certain other statutes in UK: The relevant factors to be kept in mind are whether there is a real
threat of danger, injury, or death to the witness and to the effectiveness of
Witness Protection Programmes. If there is good reason to believe that
disclosure of the witness's identity may be of substantial assistance to the
accused, then there should be no anonymity. However, if knowing the
witness's identity is only of slight assistance, anonymity should be granted
subject to the rule that it will not be granted merely because of
embarrassment to the witness or invasion of his privacy or personal damage
to him as a result of media coverage. In Jarvie, the Court further held that: 6.3.3 In a series of cases, Courts in Australia have treated informers as
falling under a special category usually requiring a special protection: Cain
vs. Glass (NUL)(1985) NSWLQ 230; (Mc Hugh JA said that the principle
applied even to persons other than registered informers). R vs. Smith : 6.3.4 As to other types of cases, in John Fairfax Group Pty Ltd.vs. Local
Court of New South Wales : (1991)26 NSWLR 131, the Court accepted the
need for 'pseudonym orders' in extortion cases. Mahoney JA said that if
such orders were not to be made: 6.3.5 The recent decision of the New South Wales Court of Appeal in
Witness vs. Marsden & Another: 2000 NSWCA 52, (a defamation action)
contains an elaborate discussion on the subject. The Court of Appeal,
speaking through Heydon JA (with whom Mason P and Priestly JA agreed)
set aside the judgment of Levine J and granted anonymity order and issued
the following important directives (4) to (6): The above case, as already stated, pertained to defamation of plaintiff by the
defendant, alleging homosexuality on part of plaintiff. The witness was an
inmate of a gaol in New South Wales and he had given a statement to the
police supporting the defendant. The defendant's counsel moved an 317 application to examine the witness by use of a pseudonym, as there was
likelihood of danger to the witness's life. This limited issue was tried
separately and for that purpose, the witness's answer in chief-examination
was given to the opponent and the plaintiff's counsel gave a list of questions
to the defendant's witness to answer. They were answered. The Judge had
put two questions. Then the defendant's counsel re-examined the witness.
The witness stated he had sought pseudonym because he feared for his life
and the publicity of giving evidence would embarrass his family and affect
the physical health of his parents. If he sought protective custody, he would
lose wages and remissions. The trial Judge dismissed the application for
anonymity on the ground that the fear expressed by the witness was too
generalized. Added to that, the witness was already in custody. But the New South Wales Court of Appeal disagreed. It referred to
the witness's fear that if he should give evidence of his homosexual
relationship with plaintiff, he may get killed. The prison in which the
witness was lodged was a notorious one and there were forty murders inside
the prison in ten years, the last about a few weeks before the application.
The Court of Appeal accepted that these fears were genuine and reasonable.
The fears about violence to a person in gaol were also real. The witness's
fear of embarrassment to family was also real though it only played a small
part in the argument. Granting a pseudonym was a minimalist interference
into the right of the opposite party for open justice. The Court observed: The Court referred to certain directions given by Hunt J in R vs. Savvas : Brian Harding sworn 24 Aug. 1989 is to be addressed and
 referred to in the Court only by a pseudonym. (2) Any matter which is likely to lead to the identification of those
 witnesses is not to be reported by those in Court. (3) No photographs, film or video recording is to be taken of either
 of the two witnesses in the Court or within its precincts and no
 drawings or other likenesses are to be made of either of the
 witnesses, either in the Court or within its precincts." Thus, the Court of Appeal granted an order for a pseudonym in the manner
referred to above. 6.3.6 We may finally add that in Australia, there have been different
statutes on witness protection. They are: (National Capital Territory Act has further amended by the Bill of
 2003); These Acts deal with a slightly different aspect, namely, witness
protection and do not deal with anonymity or the screening aspects. But the
provisions of sec. 2A(1)(b) of the Australian Evidence Act 1989 deal with
'special witnesses' who are described as persons suffering from trauma or
are likely to be intimidated or to be disadvantaged as witnesses. Special
arrangements can be made by the Court in their favour including exclusion
of public or the accused from the Court. Video taped evidence can also be
allowed. 6.3.7 Summarizing the position, the Courts in Australia have agreed that in
cases where there is evidence of likelihood of danger or harm to the
witnesses, or their families, the Court has inherent power to grant orders as
to anonymity and this procedure is not confined to serious cases of terrorism
or police informers or extortion or police undercover agents. What is
material is the proof of a reasonable likelihood of danger to the witness.
Such a procedure for screening and anonymity is held to be consistent with
the right of the accused for fair trial. Video taped evidence is also
admissible. (c)6.4 New Zealand

 We shall next turn to the case law from New Zealand. A survey of
the case law discloses that the Courts did not accept the inherent power of
the Court to pass anonymity orders but felt that it was for the legislature to
make adequate provision. The legislators intervened in 1986 initially to
protect "undercover" police officers and again in 1997, the legislature
widened the Court's power to protect other types of witnesses. These
amendments are very comprehensive and provide a very clear legislative
scheme for witness anonymity and protection and will be referred to in
detail in the course of the discussion below. 6.4.1 R vs. Hughes: 1986(2) NZLR 129 (CA) was decided in 1986 by the
New Zealand Court of Appeal and the majority said that it would not
compromise the right of the accused to a fair trial and held that the question
of balancing the right of witnesses to anonymity and of the accused for a
fair trial were matters for Parliament rather than for judicial decision. The
Court was not inclined to lay down exceptions. It was held by the majority
that undercover police officers who gave evidence in Court in the case must
give their true names, at least to the defence, even though this may lead to
disclosure of their real identity and expose them to the risk of retaliation.
The Court held that the information as to the identity of the witness was
prima facie material to the defence of a criminal charge. Two of the Judges
went further and stated that otherwise, the right of the accused to cross
examine the witness would get 'emasculated'. (The word 'emasculated'
was used by Justice Stewart of the US Supreme Court in Smith vs. Illinois 321 (1968) 390 US 129). The Court warned that any relaxation of the right to
open trial and cross-examination would be a 'slippery slope'. Richardson J speaking for the majority, stated as follows: The minority (Cook P and Mc Mullen J), however, held that the Court
did have the power to grant anonymity in exercise of its inherent
jurisdiction and should do so. The identity of an undercover officer should
not be disclosed to the defence, unless the Judge was satisfied that it was of
such relevance to the facts in issue that to withhold it would be contrary to
the interests of justice. The officer could give a cover name, the question of
the officer's true identity may be brought up in cross-examination by the 322 defence. It would then be for the prosecution to show that there was a
legitimate reason for withholding the officer's true identity, such as, fear of
violence. If this were shown, then it would be for the defence to justify the
need for disclosure on the basis that to withhold it would be contrary to 'the
interests of justice'. As to what would amount to justification, Cook P speaking for the
minority, stated that: The Judge's function, according to the minority view of Cooke P, is not to
determine whether or not the witness is truthful, but is limited to deciding
whether there is some substantial ground for questioning the undercover
officer's credibility. In case the Judge is not satisfied about the credibility
of the witness on the question of the danger to the safety of the witness, the
Judge must direct the prosecution to disclose the witness's identity, despite
the potential danger to the witness. 6.4.2 Accepting the view of the minority in this Judgment of 1986, the New
Zealand Parliament introduced section 13A in the Evidence Act, 1908 by
section 2 of the Evidence (Amendment) Act, 1986. That section was
confined to the case of "undercover" police officers and permits undercover
police officers to merely state their cover name in the Court if the specified
procedures are complied with. They do not need to state their true name or
address, nor to give particulars likely to lead to the discovery of their true
identity, unless the Court grants the defence leave to question them on these
matters. The classes of cases where such protection is available to undercover
officers are set out in section 13A(1) of the Evidence Act, 1908 as follows,
namely, in cases: It is also available in cases of alleged conspiracy to commit or for
attempting to commit these offences (section 13A(1)(c)). According to
prescribed procedure laid down in sec. 13A(3), a certificate has to be given
to the Court by the Commissioner of Police certifying, among other things,
that the officer has not been convicted of any offence (including any
offences under the Police Act, 1958 ). The certificate must also give notice
of any occasion when the credibility of the officer has been subject to
adverse comment (section 13A(4)). Once such a certificate is lodged in the Court, a Judge under sec. 13A
(7), will grant leave for the witness to be questioned about his or her true
identity only if he is satisfied, (a) that there is some evidence before the Judge that, if believed by
 the Jury, could call into question the credibility of the witness; and (b) that it is necessary in the interest of justice that the accused be
 enabled to test properly the credibility of the witness; or (c) that it would be impracticable for the accused to test properly the
 credibility of the witness if the accused were not informed of the
 true name or the true address of the witness. 6.4.3 The Act of 1986 was soon found insufficient as it was applicable only
to "undercover" officers, and therefore cases of other witnesses again came
up before the Courts between 1986 and 1997. The case in R vs. Hughes 1986(2) NZLR 129, referred to above, was
not accepted in R vs. Coleman and Others (1996) 14 CRNZ 258. In this
latter case, the Court followed the spirit of the 1986 statute and was in
favour of grant of anonymity by the Court under its inherent powers even
the case of other witnesses. Baragwanath J, in a pre-trial decision, followed
the English decisions (R vs. DJX, CCY, GGZ (1990) 91 Cr. App Rep 36, R
vs. Watford Magistrates ex p Lenman 1992 (1993) Crl L R 253) and
granted orders of anonymity. The witness's identity was to be withheld
from the defence and the witness be screened and the Court cleared of the
public. He held that: An appeal against the interlocutory order before the trial was
dismissed on jurisdictional grounds under section 379A of Crimes Act,
1961. When the aforesaid case in Coleman went finally to trial, Robertson J
too followed Bargawnath J's pre-trial judgment rather than R vs. Hughes. 6.4.4 In 1997 when another case R vs. Hines (1997) 15 CRNZ 158 came up
before the Court of Appeal, the majority, notwithstanding the liberal attitude
of the Legislature in 1986 in protecting under cover police officers,
unfortunately reaffirmed R vs. Hughes and reiterated the view against
granting anonymity to other witnesses, stating again that it was a matter for
Parliament to make a balancing act between the right of the victim and that
of the accused. But Gault J, in the minority, observed that in the interests of
the community, anonymity be granted and that the 'absolute rule' as in
Hughes was 'merely an invitation for intimidation of witnesses'. Thomas J
agreed with him. These two learned Judges upheld the inherent power of
the Court to grant anonymity unless the witness's credibility was
'reasonably in issue'. They however observed that the witness's fear must
also be 'reasonable and justified' and the Court must be satisfied that 326 anonymity will not deprive the accused of a fair trial. This preliminary
issue, according to them, was likely to require a 'voir dire' proceeding.. In the meantime in 1990, the New Zealand Bill of Rights gave right
of cross examination as a basic right, and since then there have been several
applications before the Courts but there has been no consistency in the
judgments of the High Court. R vs. L (1994)(2) NZLR 54 (CA) came up for consideration before
the Court of Appeal in 1997 and had to be tested on the anvil of sec. 25(f) of
the NZ Bill of Rights. The Court of Appeal upheld the admission at trial of
a written statement, produced as a deposition, of a rape complainant who
had committed suicide after a preliminary hearing (at which she had not
testified). The Court stated that the right of cross examination was not
absolute. 6.4.5 The legislature, therefore, felt compelled to step in again and
introduced sections 13B to 13J into the Evidence Act, 1908 by the Evidence
(Witness Anonymity) Amendment Act, 1997, making protection applicable
to all witnesses if their lives were "likely" to be endangered and laying
down a detailed procedure for the Court to follow. As to the right of cross-examination, this was part of the right to
minimum standards as stated in sub-clauses (a) and (f) of section 25 of the
NZ Bill of Rights Act, 1990 which were based on the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Section 25(f) included the right to 327 examine the witness for the prosecution and to obtain his attendance and
examination for the defence under the same conditions as the prosecution. 6.4.6 It is necessary to refer to the provisions of sections 13B and 13C
introduced in 1997 in the Evidence Act, 1908. Sec. 13B enables exclusion
of identification of the witness before trial, by the District Judge or a High
Court Judge or a Judge referred to in the Children, Young Persons and their
Families Act, 1989. Under sec. 13C, anonymity order can be passed by the
High Court. After committal, sec. 13C(2)permits the prosecution to apply
to the High Court for an anonymity order, which will be decided in
chambers, after hearing both sides. Under sec. 13C(3)(b), neither the party
supporting the application nor the witness need reveal any information that
might disclose the identity of the witness to any person (other than the
Judge) before the application is dealt with. The Judge may, under sec. 13C
(4) make an anonymity order, if he is satisfied that

 "(a) the safety of the witness or of any other person is likely to be
 endangered, or there is likely to be serious damage to the
 property, if the witness's identity is disclosed; and (b) either (i) there is no reason to believe that the witness has a motive
 or tendency to be untruthful having regard (where
 applicable) to the witness's previous conviction or the
 witness's relationship with the accused or any associates
 of the accused; or (ii) the witness's credibility can be tested properly without
 the disclosure of the witness's identity; and 328 (c) the making of the order would not deprive the accused of a fair
 trial." It is also necessary to refer to subsection (5) of sec. 13C with regard
to the factors to be taken into account and the procedure to be followed by
the Court. Subsection (6) of sec. 13C refers to the effect of the order.
These subsections read as follows: We may add that procedure under sec.13B for the District Court is
almost identical with procedure under sec.13C for the High Court. Section 13G is very important as it provides for clearing the public
from the Court or to direct screening and allow the witness to give evidence
by close-circuit television or by video-link. It also deals with appointment
of an 'independent counsel' to assist the Court. For purposes of section 13G above mentioned, a Judge may, under sec.13E,
appoint an independent counsel to assist the Court; or issue directions to a
Jury as may be required (sec. 13F) and orders may be varied or discharged
before the witness gives evidence (sec. 13H). After section 13H, two places below, namely, section 13I deals with
witness in "police protection programme" and sec. 13J enables conviction
for 7 years if a person who has knowledge of a pre-trial witness anonymity
order under sec. 13C contravenes para (c) or (e) of subsection 6 of sec.
13C; may be imposed if para (b) or (d) is violated; if para (c) or (e) is
violated and not sec. 13C(1), then fine may be imposed without prejudice to
punish for contempt. 6.4.7 R vs. Atkins: 2000 (2) NZLR 46 (CA)

 The Amending Act of 1997, introducing sections 13B to 13J, and in
particular, sec. 13(C)(4)(a) came up for consideration recently in R vs.
Atkins: (2000)(2) NZLR 46 (CA) before the New Zealand Court of Appeal.
The case is very important and is a landmark in this branch of the law and
we shall refer to it in some detail. We may recall that section 13(C)(4)(a) refers to the satisfaction of Court that: (This case involved video-link and distortion of voice of witnesses.) 332 In Atkins, the High Court passed witness anonymity orders and these
were questioned by the two accused in an application for leave to appeal
before the New Zealand Court of Appeal. Four of the accused had been
committed for trial on a charge of murder arising out of an assault in the
carpark of a Hotel in the night and all were members or associates of the
Crisborne Mongel Mob, playing in a rugby team. The assault was
witnessed by 100 people at the carpark out of which 11 agreed to give
evidence but only on condition of anonymity. The police obtained pre-trial
orders under sec. 13B for all the 11 witnesses prior to the hearing of
evidence but six of them dropped out. 6.4.8 The procedures adopted in the case required use of two separate video
images in the Courtroom, one that could only be seen by the Judge and Jury
and the other that could be seen by everyone else concerned with the trial.
The witnesses were testifying from video-link from undisclosed locations
with their voices distorted for the Judge and Jury, and their voices and
images distorted for all others in the Courtroom including the accused and
his counsel. The NZ Court of Appeal interpreted the word "likely" in sec.
13C(4)(a). The Court in Atkins observed: There is no cause to read the word "otherwise" in the present
 context. It is the existence, in a real sense, of danger to safety (or
 serious damage) which can, not will, give rise to an order. What is
 being considered is a threshold, one which is directed to persons who,
 as part of their civic duty, are being required to take part in the Court
 process, and their personal safety, or the well-being of their property,
 which may be affected by reason of their participation". The NZ Court of Appeal continued: Further, in Atkins, the New Zealand Court of Appeal continued: Coming to the facts of the case before them, in Atkins, the Court of Appeal
then considered the affidavits supplied by the five witnesses and of the
Detective Sergeant. As to the admissibility of the affidavits of the witnesses
on the basis of which they sought anonymity, the Court of Appeal laid down
very important tests. It said: The Court of Appeal in Atkins summarized the contentions for the
accused as to the disadvantages which an accused suffers in the case of
anonymity orders, as follows: In respect of the above contention raised on behalf of the accused, the Court
further observed that this was not a case where parties invoked sec. 13E for
independent assistance by a counsel, nor was it invoked by the Court below.
It is also to be seen that the

 "terms of order under subsection (6) of section 13C do not expressly
 prohibit questions other than those which can properly be said are
 likely to lead to identification of the witness - that there is a real or
 substantial risk of that resulting (in identification). Secondly, the trial
 Judge has a residual power to allow such questions, which would be
 exercised having regard to all the circumstances including the relative
 substantiality of the risk and the importance of the particular
 question. These are very much matters of judicial control at trial.
 Thirdly, as the Judge in this case observed the refusal of a witness to
 give details pertinent and significant to the reliability of his or her
 evidence will obviously be uppermost in the minds of the jury, and
 the quality thereof probably substantially diminished. The point
 however remains one which must be given the due weight in the
 overall equation." The Court of Appeal also observed that the fact that an anonymity
order has been passed accepting the fears expressed by the witnesses,
should be a matter which could go against the character of the accused in
the matter of deciding his role in the (alleged) commission of the offence. The said Court observed that the overall discretion given to the Court
under sec. 13C(4) was subject to subsection (a), (b) and (c) and also to
subsection (5) some of which may infringe on subsection (4)(b) and (c)
considerations. Even if subsection (4) criteria are established, the Court
must still stand back and ask whether the orders should, in the overall
interest of justice, be made. But 13C orders are, it must be understood, not
to be passed as a matter of routine. They are not like gang related offences.
The power is to be used sparingly - The exceptional circumstances may
arise out of single incident or out of the cumulative result of witnesses. On the basis of the above discussion, the Court of Appeal dismissed
the appeals of the accused. 5.4.9 Summarizing the position in New Zealand Courts, it will be seen that
initially there was the view that the Court should not exercise inherent
powers to pass anonymity orders but that the legislature alone should
provide guidelines. However, the legislature stepped in and carried out
amendments first in regard to "undercover" police officers in 1986 and later
more generally in 1997 to cover all witnesses whose life is "likely" to be
endangered. The legislation of 1997 is very comprehensive and was
interpreted in latter cases thoroughly, where the witnesses had deposed from 339 another place through video-link, their voice not being distorted for the
Judge and Jury while their voice and images were both distorted for all
others including the accused and his counsel. The procedure was held to be
'fair' within the New Zealand Bill of Rights. (d)6.5 Canada

 In Canada, the broad principle laid down by the Supreme Court is that
anonymity may not be granted to the witnesses under inherent powers
unless the Court considers that, on the facts, 'innocence would be at stake'.
Anonymity was a privilege granted under the common law unless there was
material that it would jeopardize proof of innocence of the accused. 6.5.1 It however appears that in Canada, the Courts have generally granted
more importance to the exception of 'innocence at stake' rather than the
needs of the 'administration of justice' in giving anonymity to witnesses. 6.5.2 R vs. Durette: 1994(1) SCR 469

 The accused were charged with offences involving conspiracy of
trafficking in controlled drugs and narcotics. A substantial part of the
evidence against them consisted of recordings of telephone conversations
intercepted pursuant to nine authorizations by the Court. The trial Judge
edited the affidavits filed by the officers of the State to secure authorizations
for interception "in so far as (they) contain information from informants and
others which is to be protected and in so far as they contain summary or
opinions'. The issue before the Supreme Court, after the convictions, was 340 whether the trial Judge's editing of the affidavits prevented a proper and full
inquiry into the validity of the authorizations, thereby depriving the accused
of the right to make full answer and defence as guaranteed by sections 7 and 11(d) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The Supreme Court (by majority) allowed the appeals and ordered a
new trial, holding that to justify non-disclosure of information, the Crown
must show that disclosure will prejudice the interests of informants,
innocent persons or law enforcement authorities and that such prejudice
overbears the interests of the accused. When non-disclosure is justified, the
affidavits should only be edited to the extent necessary to protect these
overriding public interests. Here the editing by the Judge of the affidavits
was more than could be legally justified by the decisions in R vs. Parmar (1987) 34 (CC(3d) 260 and R vs. Garfoli : 1990(2) SCR 1421; editing
should have been kept at the minimum to the extent needed to maintain
confidentiality. It was held that the screening held back information from
the affidavits which was not confidential. 6.5.3 In R vs. Khela: 1995 (4)SCR 201

 In this case, the Canadian Supreme Court had to deal with the case of
disclosure of the identity of a police informer and the right of the accused
for cross-examination. The position under sec. 24(1) of the Canadian
Charter of Rights and Freedom was also in issue. The question was
whether the denial of cross-examination of a person in the position of an
'approver' was justified and further about the validity of his subsequent
production for limited cross-examination when he wore a 'hood', to ensure 341 his safety. The Supreme Court finally held that if there was danger to the
person's life, his name and address need not be disclosed till just before the
trial. The facts were that in 1986, the appellants (accused) Santokh Singh
Khela and Dhillon, were charged with conspiracy to commit murder of
persons on board of an aircraft in the US by placing a bomb on the plane.
They were arrested in May 1986 and they waived their right to a preliminary
inquiry. At the first trial in 1986, they were found guilty and sentenced to life
imprisonment. According to the accused, an amount of $ 8000 out of
agreed sum of $ 20,000 was paid by them to buy a stolen car and import it
into the US and the payment was not in connection with the conspiracy to
blow up the air-craft as alleged by the Crown. They were not permitted to
call the particular person (who was not a police officer) who was the
informant to the police, (something like an 'approver'), for cross-
examination. The Crown had not provided them the details of the actual
name and address of the informant. The appellant's appeal against
conviction was allowed (see (1991) 68. CCC(3d) p 81) by the Court of
Appeal and a fresh trial was ordered holding that the trial Judge erred in not
ordering, as requested by the appellant, (1) the Crown to disclose (a) the
evidence of the informer before the trial; (b) the full name and whereabouts
of the informant and (2) that the informant be produced for cross-
examination. The Crown agreed to make the person available but said that the
questioning would be restricted to specific matters, namely, payment of
$8,000 and meeting with the 'explosives expert' and that the interview with
the informant could neither be taped nor could a case reporter be present.
The counsel for defence met the informant and the Crown Office and the
person was wearing a 'hood' over his head and was flanked by two large
bodyguards. The informant refused to respond to questions in English and
was speaking French even though at the first trial, evidence showed he was
fluent in English. Defence Counsel, therefore, doubted the identity of the
person produced and the interview was aborted without any question having
been asked. The Crown did not provide the defence with the name, address
or any other identifying feature of the person. At the opening of the second trial and before the jury were chosen,
the appellants made two applications under sec. 24(1) of the Canadian
Charter of Rights and Freedoms, contending that (a) the Crown had failed to disclose to the defence essential and
 relevant evidence as required by the judgment of the Court of
 Appeal; (b) The Crown violated the rights of the accused to be tried within a
 reasonable time. The Crown once again maintained that, notwithstanding the earlier
directions of the Court of Appeal, it was not obliged to make disclosure of
the name and whereabouts of the person or make him available because, 343 according to it, the earlier judgment of the Court of Appeal did not contain a
specific direction to that effect. In the Court of Appeal, Steinberg J held that the appellant's rights
under sections 7 and 11(b) of the Charter had been infringed and granted
stay of proceedings. When the matter reached the Supreme Court at the instance of the
Crown, it was held that, on the facts of the case, it was obligatory for the
Crown to furnish the identity and address of the informant in view of the
first order of the Court of Appeal while remanding the matter. Failure to
disclose could impair the rights of the accused under section 7 of the
Charter. But there was no power in the Court of Appeal to redirect
production of the informant who was not in the control of the Crown. The
obligation of the Crown did not extend to producing its witnesses for
furthering discovery. There was no reason for a fresh remand as directed
by the Court of Appeal, but the Crown should be given an opportunity to
comply with the direction to disclose the name and whereabouts of the
persons or to seek modification of the order if they had material to say that
the life of the informant would be endangered. The Supreme Court, therefore, allowed the appeal, set aside the order
of the Court of Appeal and issued the following direction to the trial Court.
This direction would be subject to variation by the trial Judge on the basis
of new evidence relating to jeopardy of the person. The Crown had to
comply with the terms of the earlier Judgment of the Court of Appeal. So
far as the third direction to make the person available, there appeared to be 344 some real difficulty because the witness was not cooperating. The Crown
had a choice: (1) if the Crown wished to avoid the problem already
encountered in trying to comply with the third requirement (of making
witness available) the Crown could meet its disclosure obligations by fully
complying with the other two requirements, namely, disclosing the evidence
of the informer before trial and disclosing the full name and whereabouts of
the person before trial, or alternatively, (2) the Crown could choose to
comply with the third requirement by producing the person by way of
ensuring that he would cooperate and answer all proper questions. The trial
Judge was directed to give time to the Crown if it sought for variation on the
ground of jeopardy to the person. The above case, in essence indicates that where there is evidence of
jeopardy to the witness, the directions for disclosure of name, whereabouts
or enabling his production, may not be given. 6.5.4 Canadian Broadcasting Corpn. vs. New Brunswick (Att. General)
(1996(3) SCR 480)

 In this case, the Canadian Supreme Court disagreed with the trial
Judge's exclusion of media and public from Court room to avoid hardship to
'the victims and the accused' during the sentencing proceedings. The Media (CBC) successfully challenged the order as infringing the
freedom of press (see 486 (1) of Criminal Code and sec. 2(b) of Canadian
Charter of Rights). Here the victims were not witnesses. The Supreme
Court set aside the exclusion, holding that public access to Courts is 345 fundamental. It held that the Court could order exclusion to protect the
innocent and safeguard the privacy interests of witnesses in cases of sexual
offences. No doubt, the statutes permit covertness in the interests "proper
judicial administration of justice", but, here, the exclusion of media and
public throughout was not justified. Mere fact that victims were young
females was not by itself sufficient to warrant exclusion. The victims'
privacy was already protected by a publication ban of identities and there
was no evidence that their privacy interests required more protection. 6.5.5 R vs. Leipert: (1997) (1) SCR 281

 In this case, the police had received a tip off from the Crime Stoppers
Association that the accused was growing marijuana in the basement. The
police made an inspection of the locality, found smell and applied for a
search warrant. The application disclosed, among others, that there was
reliable information from the above Association. The accused was duly
charged with the offence. At the trial, the accused, relying upon the
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedom, called upon the Crown to make
available the documents of the Association which were the subject matter of
the report to the police. The Crown refused disclosure on the ground of
"informer privilege". The trial Judge saw the document and after trying to
edit the notice where there are references as to the identity of the informer,
ordered disclosure. Then the Crown asked that the warrant may be relied
upon without reference to the "tip sheets". The trial judge refused this
request because the accused did not consent. The trial Court granted
acquittal as the Crown did not tender evidence and the defence did not call
any evidence. On appeal by the Crown, the judgment was reversed by the Court of
Appeal and a retrial was ordered. Upholding the appellate Court's order of
retrial, it was held by the Supreme Court that the law recognizes informer's
privilege to anonymity but this was subject to the principle "innocence at
stake" exception. There must be a basis in the evidence for concluding that
disclosure of the informer's identity is necessary to demonstrate the
"innocence" of the accused. The accused's right to full disclosure of
documents in the Crown's possession in aid of the Charter guarantee of the
right to make full answer and defence, as interpreted in Stinchcombe (1991)
3 SCR 326, had not created a new exception to the informer privilege rule.
To the extent that rules and privileges in favour of the informant stand in the
way of an accused person establishing his innocence, they must yield to the
Charter guarantee of a fair trial, where 'innocence is at stake' and the
common law rule of informer privilege does not offend this exception. When an accused seeks to establish that a search warrant is not
supported by reasonable grounds, he may be entitled to information which
may reveal the identity of an informer notwithstanding informer privilege in
circumstances where the information is "absolutely essential". "Essential
circumstances" exist where the accused establishes the "innocence at stake'
exception to informer privilege. Anonymous "tip sheets" should not be edited with a view to
disclosing them to the defence unless the accused can bring himself within
the "innocence at stake" exception. The Court can deprive the informer of
the privilege which belongs to him absolutely, subject only to the 347 'innocence at stake' exception. Unless informer identity is protected, the
efficacy of programmes such as Crime Stoppers, which depend on guarantee
of anonymity to those who volunteer information on crimes, would be
adversely affected. In the case of an anonymous informer, where it is
impossible to determine which details of the information provided by the
informer will or will not result in that person's identity being revealed, none
of those details should be disclosed, unless there is a basis to conclude that
the "innocence at stake" exception applies. The Supreme Court held, on facts, that the trial judge erred in editing
the tip sheet and in ordering the edited sheet be disclosed to the accused.
The identity of the anonymous information is protected by privilege, and,
given the anonymous nature of the tip, it was impossible to conclude
whether the disclosure of details remaining after editing might be sufficient
to reveal the identity of the informer to the accused. The informer's
privilege required nothing short of total confidentiality in this case. As it
was not established that the informer's identity was necessary to establish
the innocence of the accused, the informer's privilege would continue in
place. It was further held that the trial judge also erred in declining to allow
the Crown to delete the reference to the informer from the material in
support of the search warrant. Since the accused had not brought himself
within the 'innocence at stake' exception, the trial judge should have
permitted the Crown to defend the warrant, by deleting therefrom, the
reference to the tip from the Association. 6.5.6 R vs. Mentuck: 2001 (3) SCR 442: Section 154 permits prohibition of publication of certain information
relating to criminal proceedings. While the identity of the victim should be
protected, the public may have an interest in knowing the identity of the
accused and the nature of the incident but even here, the Court will have the
discretion to refuse the publication of the name of the accused, if the
complaint is a frivolous one. 6.6.2 Chapters 3, 4 and 5 of the Discussion Paper 90 of the South African
Law Commission, project 101 (2000) deal with this aspect. Chapter 3 deals
with equality and access to Courts, Chapter 4 with Right to fair trial and
Chapter 5 with Right to a public trial. Chapter 6 deals with right to adduce
and challenge evidence and adequate facilities to prepare defence. The right
to cross-examination is basic in South Africa. But the Courts are of the
view that the right is not absolute either under common law or statute law. The South African Courts too have preferred to permit the witness to
give evidence behind closed 'doors' or to give the witness 'anonymity' and
not reveal their addresses. The Court also prefers to prohibit the press from
reporting on identity rather than exclude the press from the Court room. 6.6.3 S v. Leepile : 1986 (4) SA 187 (W)

 In S vs. Leepile: 1986(4) SA 187 (W), during the trial in which the
accused faced charges, interalia, of treason arising out of their activities as
members of the African National Congress (A.N.C), the prosecution applied
for a direction that the evidence of a particular witness referred to as Miss B
be given behind closed doors and that only persons whose presence was
essential for the hearing of the case be allowed to attend. A further prayer
was that the present residential address of the witness be disclosed only to
the Court and to counsel but not to the accused. The application was made
under section 153(2) of the Criminal Procedure Act, 1977, which authorized
the hearing of evidence behind closed doors where it appears that 'there is a
likelihood that harm might result' to a witness. There was strong evidence
in support of the application. Miss B testified that she had left South Africa
in 1978 and had become a member of the ANC, that she received military
training from the ANC and worked for its military wing until she was
arrested on a mission in South Africa in 1983. The evidence was sufficient to convince Ackermann J in the High
Court that if the ANC were to know that Miss B testified for the State she
would be regarded as 'an informer', a collaborator and as a traitor of the
ANC cause'. Thus, the Judge, on facts, placed the witness 'in a high risk'
category as far as the likelihood of harm to her is concerned, but he was still
not inclined to grant relief in the terms prayed for. He declined to exclude
the press. So far as the address of the witness was concerned, he said that
there was no point in allowing it to be given to the defence counsel because
counsel was professionally bound to tell his client. Instead, the Judge 351 preferred to pass an order that the witness be allowed to testify behind
closed doors and no person was allowed to be present unless such presence
was necessary in connection with the proceedings. Members of the press
who held identification documents 'to the satisfaction of the prosecuting
counsel' were allowed to be present subject to the condition that neither
Miss B's identity nor that of her immediate family, nor her place of
residence, be revealed. In the same case, the prosecution applied for an in camera order for
another person, and proposed to examine that person by a pseudonym and
sought an order that his true identity be not disclosed to anyone, not even to
the Court or defence counsel. Ackermann J refused to grant the wide
request as it had serious consequences for the accused and said that such
exclusion would 'require the clearest language on the part of the legislature
to make such an order competent'. 6.6.4 S v. Pastoors: 1986(4) SA 222 (W)

 However, in S vs. Pastoors 1986 (4) SA 222 (W) the Court allowed
the identity of a prosecution witness to be withheld 'from the defence'. The
Court held there was 'real risk' that the witness would be attacked or even
killed and observed: The Court further ordered that if the defence felt, at a later stage, that it
required to know the identity of the witness, it would be able to apply to the
Court again. (f) 6.7 United States: The Courts in US have held that the constitutional protection in
favour of the right to confrontation by way of cross examination, as
provided in the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution, was not absolute and
could be restricted for the purpose of protecting the witness identity by
using a video-link and permitting cross examination by shielding the
witness from the accused though not from his lawyers or the Court or the
Jury. Initially, between 1925 and 1968, the right to confrontation of the
witness by way of cross examination was treated as absolute. In 1968, in a
concurring judgment, White J in Smith v. Illinois: (1968) 390 US 129 said
that witness identity could still be protected where witness safety was
involved. Though the Courts of Appeal and trial Courts, in several cases,
followed the dissenting observation of White J, the Supreme Court in later
cases again reiterated its earlier view that the right to cross examination was
absolute. However, in 1990 in Maryland v. Craig 497 US 836, it accepted 353 the video-link method to screen the witness from the accused though not
from the Court or the defence lawyer or Jury. In the US Constitution, the Sixth Amendment mandates that

 "in all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a
 speedy and public trial......; and to be confronted with the witnesses
 against him...." In addition, the First Amendment ensures freedom of speech, freedom of
press and has been interpreted as granting to the public and to the press
access to any trial and to information about witnesses. While both these provisions apply only to the federal government,
because they contain the fundamental rights, the US Supreme Court has
made them applicable to the States also through the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. (Gotlow vs. New York (1925) 268 US 152;
Pointer vs. Texas: (1965) 380 US 400)

 The right of the defendant to cross examine a witness flows directly
from this constitutional right of confrontation. (A) Right to cross-examination absolute: initial cases: In Alford, decided in 1931, the Supreme Court held that the trial
Court had improperly exercised discretion by permitting a witness to give
evidence without revealing his address. The Supreme Court held that the
right to ask a witness where he lived was "an essential step in identifying
the witness with his environment" to which cross examination may always
be directed. It stated: Smith vs. Illinois (1968) 390 US 129 was a case where the witness
had refused to answer questions about his real name and address. Stewart J for the majority stated that where the credibility of the
witness was in issue, the starting point on making inquiries about a
witness's credibility is his name and address. He observed: White J's dictum: The exception referred to by White J in Smith, where the witness's
safety is likely to be endangered if his identity is disclosed - has been
applied by the circuit and trial courts in US in several cases. See US vs.
Saletko : (1971) 452. F.2d. 193 (7th Circuit) (contained in (1972) 405 US
1040: and State vs. Hassberger : (1977) 350 S. 2d 1 (Flo) US vs. Cosby
(1974) 500 F. 2d 405 (9th circuit)

 In United States vs. Palermo : (1969) 410 F 2d 468 (7th circuit), the
circuit Court, relying upon Justice White's observations in Alford, held that 356 the defendant had no absolute right to discover the names and addresses of
witnesses if a threat to their personal safety existed. However, where the
witness has shifted from his location and is not likely to go back, the Court
would disclose the place of his original residence, so that cross examination
is effective. Other Courts have affirmed non-disclosure orders independent of
whether the threat to the witness's safety emanated from the defendant or
from unknown third party. In Clark vs. Rickets (1991) 958. F 2d. 851 (9th
circuit) (cert denied (1993) 506 US 838) the witness was a Drug
Enforcement Agency informant. Threats against his life were made in the
city where he lived. Even earlier, in United States vs. Rich (1958) F.2d. 415 the 2nd Circuit
held that withholding the address of a witness because of personal danger to
him/her was acceptable. In United States vs. Crovedi (1972) 467. F.2d 1032
(7th Circuit), the Court of Appeal upheld a ruling that the new identities and
location of two witnesses be kept from the defence and the public at large.
The witnesses were given immunity in exchange for their testimony against
a co-conspirator. In order to guarantee their safety, the government placed
them and their families in witness protection. The Court ruled that there
was no abuse of discretion in a determination that these witnesses had
reason to fear that disclosure of their present identities would endanger
themselves and their families. In United States vs. Rangel 534 F.2d 147 decided by the 9th Circuit, a
similar protection was granted to witnesses who feared their safety. The 357 Court did not establish a rigid rule of disclosure (of the true name, home
address and phone number of informants), but rather discussed disclosure
against a background of factors weighing conversely, such as personal
safety of the witness. The 9th Circuit, in United States vs. Ellis (1972) 468. F.2d 638, upheld
the right to suppress the real name, residence and occupation of under cover
police officers. (C) We may now refer to two cases decided by the Supreme Court where
once again the absolute right to confrontation was reiterated. (i) In California vs. Green (1970) 399 US 149, the Supreme Court traced
the history of the confrontation clause in the Sixth Amendment to the
famous English case relating to the trial of Sir Walter Raleigh. The
Supreme Court said: (ii) In Davis vs. Alaska (1974) 415 US 308 it was held that restrictions on
cross-examination were unconstitutional even if they did not cause
prejudice. In the same case, the Supreme Court referred to the importance
of confrontation and cross-examination for the purpose of knowing the bias
of crucial identification witness. however, held that the defendant's right to full confrontation must
occasionally yield to competing government interest including the
prevention of victim harassment, jury prejudice, confusion of issues or
danger to witness. The exception to the rule of confrontation was applicable where the
restriction on cross-examination was harmless beyond reasonable doubt in
the light of the insignificance of the witness's testimony as viewed against
the totality of the evidence against the defendant. (ii) Screening witnesses: Coy (1988) differed from Craig (1990)

 To start with, in Coy vs. Iowa (1988) 487 US 1012, the Supreme
Court held that the Sixth Amendment right could not be allowed to be
violated by permitting witnesses to testify behind a screen which blocked
the witnesses from the defendants' sight and which only gave a dim vision
of their presence and though their voice was audible. However, in 1990, the one way video-link or closed-circuit video
came to be accepted by the Supreme Court as a device to screen the witness
from the accused. (iii) Maryland v. Craig (1990): close-circuit television permissible

 The decision came in Maryland vs. Craig (1990) 497 US 836. In that
case, the respondent was tried on several charges related to alleged sexual
abuse of a six year old child. Before the trial began, the State sought to
invoke the state statutory procedure permitting a judge to receive, by one-
way closed circuit television, the testimony of an alleged child-abuse victim
after determining whether the child's courtroom testimony would result in
the child suffering serious emotional stress such that he or she could not
reasonably communicate. If the procedure under Maryland Courts &
Judicial Procedure Code Ann 9-102(a)(1)(ii) of 1989 was invoked, the
child, prosecutor and defence counsel have to withdraw to another room,
where the child would be examined and cross-examined; the Judge, jury and
defendant would remain in the courtroom, where the testimony could be
displayed on video screen. Although the child cannot see the defendant, the defendant remains in
electronic communication with counsel, and objections may be made and
ruled on as if the witness were in the courtroom. The Court rejected Craig's
objection that the use of the above one-way closed-circuit procedure
violated the confrontation clause of the Sixth amendment, ruling that Craig
retained the essence of the right to confrontation. Based on expert 360 testimony, the Court also found that the alleged victim and others allegedly
abused children who were witnesses, would suffer serious emotional
distress if they were required to testify in the courtroom, such that each
would be unable to communicate. Finding that the children were competent
to testify, the Court permitted testimony under the procedure, and Craig was
convicted. The State Court of Appeals reversed. Although it rejected
Craig's argument that the clause requires, in all cases, a face-to-face
courtroom encounter between accused and accusers, it found that the State's
showing was insufficient to reach the high threshold required by Coy vs.
Iowa 487 US 1011, before the special procedure could be invoked. In Coy,
the Court had held that the procedure could not usually be invoked unless
the child initially was questioned in the defendant's presence, and that,
before using the one-way television procedure, the trial court must
determine whether a child would suffer emotional distress if he or she were
to testify by two-way television. On appeal by the State, the Supreme Court in Craig held (1) that the
Confrontation Clause did not guarantee an absolute right to a face-to-face
meeting with witnesses against them at trial. The clause's central purpose
was to ensure the reliability of the evidence against a defendant by
subjecting the witness to rigorous testing in an adversary proceeding before
the trier of fact is served by the combined effects of the elements of
confrontation, physical presence, oath, cross examination, and observation
of demeanour by the trier of fact. Although face to face confrontation forms
the core of the clause's values, it is not an indispensable element of the
confrontation right. If it were, the Clause would abrogate virtually every
hearsay exception, a result long rejected as unintended and too extreme. (Ohio vs. Roberts (448) US 56). Accordingly, it was held that the clause
must be interpreted in a manner sensitive to its purpose and to the
necessities of trial and the adversary process. (Kirby vs. United States : 174
US 47) Nonetheless, the right to confront accusatory witnesses may be
satisfied absent a physical, face-to-face confrontation or trial only where
denial of such confrontation is necessary to further an important public
policy, and only where the testimony's reliability is otherwise answered
(Coy vs. Iowa). The Court in Craig further held that Maryland's interest in protecting
child-witnesses from the trauma of testifying in a child abuse case was
sufficiently important to justify the use of its special procedure, provided
that the State makes an adequate showing of necessity in an individual case.
Maryland's procedure, it was held, preserves the 'other elements' of
confrontation and ensures the reliability of the testimony, subject to rigorous
adversarial testing in a manner functionally equivalent to that accorded to
live, in-person testimony. These assurances are far greater than those
required for the admission of hearsay statements. Accepting the use of the
One-way closed circuit television procedure, where it was necessary to
further an important public interest, it was held that such acceptance does
not infringe upon the confrontation clause's truth-seeking or symbolic
purposes. The Court further held in Craig that a State's interest in the physical
and psychological well-being of child-abuse victims may be sufficiently
important to outweigh, at least in some cases, a defendant's right to face his
or her accusers in Court. The fact that most States have enacted similar 362 statutes attests the widespread belief in such a public policy's importance.
The US Supreme Court has previously recognized that States have a
compelling interest in protecting minor victims of sex-crimes from further
trauma and embarrassment. (Globe Newspaper Co. vs. Supreme Court: 457
US 596) The Maryland Legislators' considered judgment regarding the
importance of its interest will not be second-guessed, given the State's
traditional and transcendent interest in protecting the welfare of children
and growing body of academic literature, denunciating the psychological
trauma suffered by child-abuse victims who must testify in Court. According to the Supreme Court's observations in Craig, the
requirements are that the trial Court must hear evidence and determine
whether the procedure's use is necessary to protect the particular child
witness's welfare; find that the child would be traumatized, not by the
courtroom generally, but by the defendant's presence; and find that the
emotional distresses suffered by the child in the defendant's presence is
more than de minimis. Since the determining of the minimum showing of
emotional trauma required for the use of a special procedure in the
Maryland statute is mandatory, the statute was held to meet constitutional
standards. Since there was no dispute, on facts, that here the children who
testified under oath, were subject to full cross examination by video-link,
and were able to be observed by the Judge, jury and defendant as they
testified, the procedure of admitting their testimony was consonant with the
confrontation clause, provided that a proper necessity finding was made. In Idaho vs. Wright (1990) 497 US 805 and in White vs. Illinois
(1992) 502 US 346, the Court dealt with hearsay evidence by a witness as to
what a child-victim of abuse stated earlier to the witness. The case did not
involve one-way video link procedure. But while dealing with admissibility
of the hearsay evidence, Maryland vs. Craig was reiterated. Since most Courts in US routinely permit question as to a witness's
name and address, the prosecution must make a special case for imposing a
restriction upon this information being asked, by showing that the witness is
endangered by the revelation. However, in a few Courts, the onus is put on
the accused to justify any inquiries about a witness's place of residence. In
some Courts, the accused has to show why the place of residence should not
be concealed from him, where some evidence is provided by the prosecution
as to why it should be concealed. The procedure in federal courts is that the
Government must prove the existence of an actual threat and inform the
Judge in camera the relevant information, including the witness's location.
The judge who evaluates the information, therefore, considers the need for
concealment of the details and its effect on the reliability of the evidence. (E) Some more recent US judgments: The trial Court was however directed to go into the matter and give specific
findings to support of the closed circuit procedure. In the case of Iowa vs. James Terrance Mosley (15.5.2002) decided
by the Court of Appeals, Iowa, the Court confirmed the use of close-circuit
TV for receiving the evidence of a eight-year victim of child abuse, on the
ground that if the witness had to face the accused, she would have suffered
trauma. 6.7.2 A summary of US law by Jurist Nora V. Demleitner: (1998)
 46 Amer J of Comp. Law (Suppl) 641

 In an article on 'Witness Protection in Criminal Cases: Anonymity,
Disguise or other Options' by Nora V. Demleitner (1998)(46 American
Journal of Comparative Law, (Suppl.) p. 641) there is a very detailed
analysis of the subject. The article refers to some of the cases referred to 366 above and finally divides witnesses into three categories: (a) undercover-
agents; (b) informants and (c) witnesses covered by witness protection
programmes. We shall try to summarise what the author has stated in this
behalf. (a) In the case of undercover agents, a witness's house address serves
 to allow the defence to identify her with her environment so as to
 allow for a meaningful cross examination. Some Courts have held
 that with respect to undercover agents, this goal can be
 accomplished differently - it might be sufficient to disclose their
 occupational background and circumstances (United States vs.
 Alston (1972) 460 F.2d 48 (5th Circuit) Certi. Denied 409 US 871
 (1972). Police agents, even if working undercover, are subject to
 supervision and constant monitoring by their superiors. The
 supervisors can testify as to the agent's general truthfulness. This
 exception does not necessarily extend to informants since they
 tend to be subject to less supervision. (b) Informers have 'privilege' for anonymity if they had started the
 investigation but did not further it. This encourages witnesses to
 come forward in exchange for anonymity. A police officer may
 testify as to the course of investigation which was initiated by the
 informant, without revealing the informant's identity. However, in
 Roviaro vs. United States: (1957) 353 U. S. 53 , it was held by the
 US Supreme Court that, if the evidence as to the original
 informant's identity is 'essential' or even 'relevant and helpful', it
 must be produced. Any disclosure requires the 'balancing the
 public interest in protecting the flow of information against the 367 individual's right to prepare his defense'. The Circuit Court of
 Appeals, in United States vs. Ellis (1972) 468 F. 2d. 638, affirmed
 a trial Judge's decision not to force an informant to reveal his
 name and address based on his safety claims and the marginal
 importance of his testimony. This ruling was relied upon in other
 cases to say that even in case other than those of undercover agent,
 the accused had no absolute right of access to the witness's name
 and address. In State vs. Hassberger : (1977) 350 So. 2d 1 (Fla)
 the Florida Supreme Court, required the real name of the witness
 to be disclosed at trial. US Courts are more likely to give
 protection of anonymity without revealing name and place of
 residence so far as undercover agents and victim-witnesses are
 concerned while in the case of others, the views appear to be not
 uniform. (c) So far as witnesses covered by witness protection programmes are
 concerned or where an undercover agent adopts a 'work' name,
 the disclosure of the 'current name' of a witness would either
 violate the purpose of the 'witness protection programme' or
 unnecessarily endanger the undercover agents who testify under
 their actual but not their 'work' name. Therefore numerous courts
 in the US have permitted non-disclosure as long as sufficient other
 evidence was available for effective cross-examination. (g) 6.8 European Court of Human Rights

 In the European Court of Human Rights, on account of Art. 6 of the
European Convention on Human Rights requiring a fair trial to the accused, 368 more importance appears to have been given to the protection of the rights
of the accused. Wherever the right of cross-examination of the prosecution
witnesses has been denied to the accused by the State Courts, the European
Court set aside the convictions and awarded compensation. While the Court
recognized the need to protect anonymity of witnesses in most cases, on
facts, in most cases it held that the trial was unfair. The cases in Kostovski
(1990), Doorson (1996), Vissier (2002) and Fitt (2002) are the leading
cases. If the national Courts felt anonymity was necessary or not necessary
in public interest, the European Court, as a matter of principle, would not
interfere. The European Court dealt with the cases arising from various
countries in Europe, as detailed below. 6.8.1 Kostovski (1989)

 The leading case is the one in Kostovski vs. The Netherlands
(20.11.1989) of the European Court (1990) 12 EHRR 434. The case
concerned more than one accused. So far as Kostovski was concerned, he
was born in Yugoslav and had a long criminal history. He had escaped from
prison in the Hague and was alleged to have conducted an armed raid of a
bank and made off with currency and cheques. While so, the Amsterdam
police got a phone call from a man who said that three persons (Stanley
Hills, Paul Molhoct and a Yugoslav who had escaped from prison in the
Hague) conducted the robbery. On 26.1.82, the man gave a statement to the
police and wanted his name not to be revealed. On being shown
photographs, he identified the accused as Kostovski. He gave details of 369 their hideout. On 23.2.1982, another person gave yet another statement and
wanted to be anonymous. On 1.4.82 the accused were arrested. The
Magistrate examined the latter person who gave statement on 23.2.82, as
above stated, in the presence of the police but in the absence of the public
prosecutor and Kostovski and his counsel. The Magistrate who did not
know the identity of the witness, considered that the apprehension of the
witness as to safety was well-founded and allowed the witness to be
anonymous. The Magistrate sent copies of the statement to the Counsel for
the various accused and asked them to submit their written questions and
informed that they would not be invited to the hearing before him.
Kostovski's lawyer submitted 14 questions to be given to the witness. The
Magistrate's deputy interviewed the witness, the police were present but not
the public prosecutor nor the Counsel for Kostovski nor the accused. The
witness gave answers to the questions. Similar procedure was adopted in
the matter of the other accused. On 10.9.82, a single hearing took place before the District Court.
The Magistrate, his deputy and the police who had earlier conducted the
interview, were all examined. The Court did not, in view of Art 288 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Netherlands), permit questions designed to
clarify the anonymous witness's reliability and sources of information,
which could otherwise have revealed. The Magistrate gave evidence that he
was satisfied about the genuineness of the fear of reprisal. The anonymous
witnesses were not heard at the trial. The official reports drawn up by the
police and the examining Magistrate were used as evidence. The sworn
statement of one of the anonymous witnesses to the Magistrate was read out 370 and treated as statement of a witness at the trial under section 295. The
District Court convicted the accused. The Court of Appeal in Netherlands heard the witnesses. They stood
by their testimony. It did not allow questions to be put by the defence
which would have revealed their identity. The Court of Appeal did not hear
the anonymous witnesses but considered the contents of the statement. It
accepted that the fear of reprisal was genuine. It confirmed the conviction. The appeal to the Supreme Court in Netherlands was dismissed on
25.9.84 and it also held that in spite of Art. 6 of the European Convention, a
Judge was not precluded, if he deemed it necessary for the proper
administration of justice, from curtailing to some extent, the obligation to
answer questions and notably, the one relating to identity of witnesses. The European Court observed that the case was processed under a
1926 law, namely, the Netherlands Code of Criminal Procedure , 1926. It
referred to various provisions thereof and as to how a Court, under that law,
could convict an accused on previous statement recorded or official reports
of the investigating officer. The Court referred to a 1926 judgment of the
Netherlands' Supreme Court which permitted such statements/reports as
evidence. Since then, in majority of cases, witnesses were not being
examined at the trial. The European Court referred to a 1984 Report of a
Commission in that country which recommended that statement of
anonymous witnesses should not be treated as evidence and to the fact that a
Draft Bill was pending legislation. The European Court said that the procedure followed in the case
offended principles of a fair trial under Art. 6 of the European Convention
and that even though anonymity was given, these witnesses were not
examined at the trial and the Court could not observe their demeanour nor
test their reliability. Even before the Magistrate, neither the accused or his
counsel were present. The examining magistrates were also unaware of the
identity. The European Court held the procedure was unfair. It held that while
at the stage of investigation, the police could get information from
anonymous informants, however, at the trial, the use of the previous
statements as evidence to form a conviction, was bad in law. The Court
allowed the appeal. By a separate judgment dated 29.3.90, the European Court held that
under Art 50 of the Convention, Kostovski was entitled to compensation for
detention that was not valid. The amount of compensation was, however,
settled by agreement. 6.8.2 Windisch vs. Austria : (1991) 13 EHRR 281

 This was a case of burglary by the accused and two witnesses were
allowed to identify the accused from a distance, while the accused was
allowed to hold a handkerchief in front of his face. The police officers
recorded the statements of the two anonymous witnesses but their identity
was not disclosed to the Court. The accused's request to summon them for 372 cross-examination but the request was rejected because the witnesses feared
retaliation. The conviction was appealed against. The European Court referred to Art. 6 of the Convention and to
Kotoskovi. It held that there was no fair trial. The argument that the
accused could have put written questions was held to be not acceptable as it
was not equivalent to production of witnesses before the Court. The trial
Court too was not aware of their identity. It could not watch their
demeanour as they were never produced before the Court nor could the
Court determine their reliability. The police officer's evidence was not
sufficient. In this case also, the Court also awarded monetary
compensation. 6.8.3 Delta vs. France: (1993) 16. EHRR 574. The appellant was accused of snatching a chain and a crucifix from
two girls at an underground railway station. He was arrested and the two
girls immediately identified him. The appellant pleaded he was not guilty
and the snatching was done by somebody else. The police later interviewed
the girls, they reiterated their earlier version. The girls did not turn up the
trial. The accused was convicted by the trial Court in France. On appeal, the European Court referred to the fact that subsequent to
the order of conviction under appeal, the Paris Court of Cassation had
departed from its previous view and held that evidence was necessary at the
trial unless a clear case was made out about intimidation, pressure or
reprisals. The European Commission decided that the trial was vitiated and
granted compensation. 6.8.4 Isgro vs. Italy: (1991) Yearbook of European Convention on Human
Rights, 155. This was also a case where the person (Mr. D) (not anonymous) who
gave the statement to the police was not traceable at the trial and did not
examine himself at the trial. The trial Court held that, Kostovski was
distinguishable, that the accused had opportunity to question Mr. D before
the investigating judge but that he did not do so. Thereafter, the accused
was committed to trial. At the trial, the witness was not traceable but the
accused was convicted. The European Court held that, on facts, there was no violation of Art.
6 but still in certain situations, the previous statements of witnesses could be
relied upon and that this case was one such. The conviction was confirmed. 6.8.5 Doorson vs. The Netherlands: (26.3.96)

 The case arose from Netherlands and concerned the appellant, who
was alleged to be a drug-dealer. The police, on information received,
showed photographs of drug dealers to certain drug-addicts (along with
photographs of innocent persons) and upon identification of appellant by
several drug-addicts, started investigation. Several persons who wanted to
be anonymous did not turn up. However, three persons (one who disclosed
his name but was not a clear witness and two other anonymous witnesses) 374 gave statements. The named witness's evidence was not acted upon. At
the stage of appeals, - upon a finding being called for, the investigation
Judge who investigated a second time (in the presence of the counsel for
accused ) - felt that the evidence of the two persons as to their safety - one
was earlier attacked by a drug-dealer in another case - was genuine and
their anonymity was essential. The European Court referred to Kostovski
case and held that the right to disclosure of identity was not absolute. It
pointed out that though on the earlier occasion the witnesses gave evidence
when counsel for the accused was not present, the second time - when the
appeal Court called for a fresh finding - the witnesses were examined in the
presence of the counsel for accused and he was permitted to put questions.
Where the life, liberty or security of witnesses may be at stake, the rights of
the accused and of the victims/witnesses have to be balanced by the Court.
Finally, on facts, it was held that there was no violation of Art. 6 (Court here
referred to the new statutory Rules of Netherlands , 1993). 6.8.6 Van Michelen & others vs. The Netherlands: (23.4.97)

 The case which again arose from Netherlands related to robbery and
murder and chase by police officers and ultimate arrest of the accused. The
police officers claimed anonymity on the ground of danger to their lives.
This was granted and they gave evidence in the presence of the
investigating Judge in a separate room from which the accused and even
their counsel were excluded. The counsel for accused was thus precluded
from watching the demeanour of witness and they could only hear the
audio-track. They were not able to test the reliability of witnesses. The
European Court observed that it had not been explained as to why it was 375 necessary to resort to such extreme limitations on the well-known rights of
the accused to have evidence given in their presence or as to why less-far
reaching measures were not employed. It was held that the Court of Appeal
did not assess the reliability of the evidence as to reprisals. The evidence
consisted of the statements of the anonymous police officers and nothing
else. The conviction was set aside and compensation was awarded. 6.8.7 Vissier vs. The Netherlands: (14.2.2002)

 This was a case of an anonymous witness from Netherlands. The
appellant Vissier and another Mr. D were the accused. The facts were that
one Mr. A told police on 30.9.87 that he had been kidnapped on 30.9.87 and
was beaten up by two unknown persons, that he suspected that they had
acted on the orders of one Mr. G. He complained this was an act of
revenge because of allegations of burglary that Mr. A was supposed to have
made earlier against Mr. G. Thereafter, preliminary judicial investigations
were made in April 1988 into the allegations. On 28.4.88, two police
officers prepared a report on the kidnapping and assault of A. The report
stated that a number of witnesses had seen Mr. G and two other persons in
bar-restaurants in a town on the previous night 29-30 Sept. 1987 and these
witnesses had overheard that the three men were making inquiries about the
whereabouts of A. A was said to know G well and to be afraid of G.
Police investigations showed that Mr. G was a person who instilled fear in
others. The witnesses who had seen the two accused on the previous night
and on the date of the alleged commission of offence, were not willing to
make written statements because of fear of G. 376 However, police said that four witnesses were confronted through a
two-way mirror in the presence of the accused Vissier and his co-accused D
but they found that the witnesses feared Vissier and D and wanted to leave
the room as soon as possible. None of the four witnesses identified the two
accused although one said Vissier looked similar to one of the perpetrators.
Later, witnesses were interviewed separately and one of them, a lady,
recognized one of the perpetrators but she wished to be anonymous. A fifth
witness reported that he recognized D from photographs as being the person
who, after midnight 29-30 Sept. was trying to find out the whereabouts of
Mr. A, the victim who was later kidnapped and beaten up on 30th. The police also said that one of the witnesses reportedly called the
police to say that the witness wanted to withdraw the statement, because of
fear. The police were satisfied about the danger to the witness. The trial court acquitted Vissier and Mr. D of the charge of
kidnapping and beating but Vissier was convicted on another charge. On
appeal, by Vissier as well as State, Vissier was convicted of the charge of
kidnapping and beating Mr. A and convicted. (There was no appeal by
State against acquittal of Mr. D). On further appeal, the Supreme Court in
Netherlands set aside the conviction of Vissier because the statement of the
anonymous witness was not taken down by the Judge after being told about
the identity of the witness and the reliability of the witness was not proved.
The matter was remanded to the appellate court which directed the trial
judge to hear the witness (who had previously recognized A, the accused by
the photographs). If need be, the witness was to be heard by taking
measures to protect the anonymity of the witness. On 13.9.93, the witness was heard by the trial judge who was aware
of the identity. He directed anonymity to be maintained. Counsel for accused attended when the complainant was interviewed
by the Judge and the Judge also put questions suggested by the said counsel. The Counsel for accused gave questions in writing, these were put by
the Court to the witness. Counsel was allowed to read the replies of the
witness and to suggest further questions to be put by the Judge but this later
opportunity was not availed of. One of the earlier questions by Counsel
related to the photographs shown by police to the witnesses for identifying
the accused. The investigating judge also found witness reliable. On 29.9.93, the appellate Court convicted the appellant. It relied
upon the statement by the witness now made to investigating Judge and did
not rely on the earlier statement of witness recorded by the police. It,
however, did not give any finding on the need for anonymity or on the
reliability of the witness. On further appeal, the Supreme Court of Netherlands, by judgment
dated 7.6.94, dismissed the appellant's appeal against his conviction. On further appeal, the European Court allowed the accused's appeal
holding that the trial was not fair. It held that the Court of Appeal did not
carry out an examination into the well-foundedness of the reasons for the
anonymity of the witness. The investigating Judge too did not indicate how 378 he assessed the reasonableness of the personal fear of the witness, whom he
was hearing six years after the incident. It relied upon Kok vs. The
Netherlands dt. 4.7.2000 (2000) Vol. 6, EHRR). It also awarded damages. 6.8.8 Fitt v. UK: (16.2.2000)

 The appellant was accused of conspiring with C (driver of appellant's
car) and one S, to rob the Royal Mail Van; C pleaded guilty. The trial judge
directed summary of C's statement to be given to the defence. Accused gave evidence at trial. He said the bundles of currency were
given to him by one D.W from whom C was buying a car and at C's
instance, appellant buried the bundles at a place in the cemetery. He
claimed he had been falsely implicated. He denied knowledge of the
robbery. The trial judge gave the accused only the summary of C's statement
omitting the references to all sources of information. Before passing an
order, the counsel for accused was not heard. The omission of details of
the confessional statement of C was by an ex parte order. Still, the trial judge convicted him. On appeal, it was stated, that C
was now found to be a regular informer to the police in several cases - 88
such cases for reward - and the information C gave implicating the appellant
was false. The conviction was maintained in the Court of Appeal. The
accused moved the European Court. On appeal, the European Court upheld the conviction holding that the
trial was fair since the trial judge, who decided the question of disclosure of
evidence, was aware of both the contents of the withheld evidence and the
nature of the appellant's case, and was thus able to weigh the applicant's
interest in disclosure against the public interest in concealment. While the
trial must be fair, the "entitlement to disclosure of relevant evidence is not
an absolute right. In criminal proceedings, there may be competing interests
such as national security or the need to protect witnesses at risk of reprisals
or very secret police matters of investigation of crime, which must be
weighed against the right of the accused (Doorson vs. Netherlands: When the evidence is withheld on public grounds, it is not the role of
the (European) law to decide whether or not such disclosure was strictly
necessary since, as a general rule, it is for the national courts to assess the
evidence. It observed in Fitt: Here the defence were told that the information given by C which was
withheld related to the sources of information. In the absence of the
defence, no doubt, the prosecutor explained to the Judge regarding the
source of information that was not being disclosed. The material which was
not disclosed formed no part of the prosecution case whatever and was
never put to the jury. The trial judge was fully versed in all the evidence and he did say on 23rd
March that he would have directed disclosure of sources if it might have
helped the accused. The Court's procedure was fair. The Court made an
elaborate reference to the 1992 Attorney General guidelines and to R v.
Ward 1993 (1) WLR 619 and other UK cases, referred to by us in the
discussion under UK law. The appeal against conviction was dismissed. 6.8.9 Rowe and Davis vs. UK: (16.2.2000)

 This case arose from UK and was one relating to robbery and
infliction of injuries on various persons in two incidents. The European
Court referred to the same English domestic law and statutes referred to in
Fitt. But unlike there, here, on facts, it held there was no fair trial since the 381 information was withheld by the prosecution without notifying such non-
disclosure to the Judge. Such a procedure, whereby the prosecution itself
attempts to assess the importance of concealed information to the defence
and weigh this against public interest, cannot be said to be within Art. 6 of
the Convention. Same principle was applied in R vs. Ward by the Court of
Appeals in UK. It is true that the prosecution counsel notified the defence that certain
information had been withheld and this was in the Court of Appeal, and that
Court had reviewed the undisclosed evidence in ex parte proceedings with
the benefit of submissions from the Crown but in the absence of the defence
and had decided in favour of nondisclosure. Before non-disclosure was
decided, the trial court was not asked to scrutinize the withheld information.
The Court of Appeal had only perused transcripts of the Crown Court
hearings and not the basic material. It could also have been influenced in
the ex parte proceedings for non-disclosure before it, by the jury's verdict
on the guilt. The prosecution's failure to lay the evidence in question before
the trial judge to permit him to rule on the non-disclosure deprived the
appellant of fair trial. The conviction was set aside and compensation was
awarded. (h) 6.9 PORTUGAL: Chapters II and III deal with grounds of anonymity, video-link etc. in
Court proceedings. Chapter IV deals with Witness Protection Programme.
We shall here refer to the provisions of Chapters II and III. Chapter II of the Act provides provisions for concealment of
witness's image and use of teleconferences. In order to avoid witness's
recognition, section 4 provides that the court may decide that the testimony
or the statement of a witness shall be taken by means of either concealing
the witness's image or distorting his voice or both. In case of offer of
evidence relating to a crime is to be judged by a three judge court or by a
jury court and whenever there are serious grounds to believe that the
protection is necessary, the use of teleconference is admissible. It can
include the resort to distortion either of image or voice or both. Here
teleconference means any testimony or statement taken in the witnesses
physical absence by using technical means of transmission, at long distance
and in actual time, either of sound or animated images. The use of
teleconference is decided either upon request of the public prosecutor, or
upon the defendant's or the witness's demand. According to section 7 , the
long distance testimony or statement is to be taken in a public building,
whenever possible in the courts, or in the police or prison premises which
offer the appropriate conditions to the installation of the necessary technical
devices. The access to such place, where the testimony is to be taken, may
be restricted. The technical staff involved in the teleconference is required 383 to render a commitment not to disclose the location or the witness's
identification feature. The Judge presiding to the act shall make sure the
presence of another Judge at the location where the testimony or statement
is to be taken. It shall be incumbent to such judge who is present at the
location to do following things:- As per section 12 , if during the testimony or the statement, any
recognition of persons, documents or objects becomes necessary, the
witness shall be allowed the respective visualization. Under section 13 , where the witness's identity is to remain
unrevealed, the Judge presiding to the act shall avoid asking any question
which is likely to induce the witness to the indirect disclosure of his
identity. Section 14 provides that where the witness's image and voice are
concealed, the access to the undistorted sound and image shall be allowed
exclusively to the Judge presiding to the act or the court through the
technical means available. It is also provided that the autonomous and direct
communication between both the judges presiding to the act and the
escorting magistrate, as well as between the defendant and his counsel, shall
be guaranteed in any circumstances. Section 15 states that the testimony and the statements made through
teleconference according to this Act and to any other relevant legislation,
are deemed, for all purposes, as having been made in the presence of the
Judge or of the court. Chapter III of the Act ( sections 16 to 19 ) deal with restriction
regarding the disclosure of the witness's identification features. Under section 17 the non-disclosure of the witness's identification is
to be decided by the Examining Magistrate upon the request of the public
prosecutor. The request should contain the grounds for the non disclosure
as well as the reference to the evidence that must be offered thereto. The
Examining Magistrate's decision on a request for non disclosure of identity
"impeaches" (i.e. precludes) him to intervene in the proceeding thereafter. The non disclosure of the witness's identity as per section 16 may cover
one or all the phases of the proceedings. The conditions precedent for the
order of non disclosure are as follows:- As per section 18 , for the purposes of decision on a request for non-
disclosure of identity, a supplementary proceeding of a confidential and
urgent nature shall be separately prepared. Only the Examining Magistrate
and whoever to whom he appoints shall have access to such proceedings.
The Examining Magistrate shall ask the Bar to appoint a lawyer with the
proper profile to represent the defence's interests. The appointed lawyer
shall only intervene in the supplementary proceeding. The witness to whom
the measure of non-disclosure of identity has been granted, may make his
testimony or statement either by concealing his image or by distorting his
voice or through teleconference. However, under section 19 , no conviction shall be based only on the basis
of the testimony or evidence of the protected witness. (i) 6.10 Judgments of the "International Criminal Tribunal for former
Yugoslavia" (ICTY) in 'Tadic' and 'Delaic' and other cases and anonymity
to prosecution and defence witnesses, video-link etc: (http:..www.un.org/icty/tadic/appeal/decision-e/020730 htna)

 6.10.3 Prosecutor v. Delilac (1998): video-link procedure &
 protective measures from media/public : (b) Video-link testimony: (c) Disclosure of identity: The Trial Chamber by judgment dated 16.11.98 found that the detainees in
the camp were killed, tortured, sexually assaulted, beaten and otherwise
subjected to cruel and inhumane treatment by all the accused as
commanders, though they were held not guilty of certain other offences. The Appeal Chamber by judgment dated 20.2.2001 confirmed certain
convictions which included Count 3 (killing), Count 18 (rape amounting to
torture) and Count 21 (repeated incidents of forcible sexual intercourse and
rape amounting to torture). It remitted 4 issues to the Trial Chamber on
11.4.2001 on the question of 'adjustment' of sentences. The Trial Chamber
gave its decision on 9.10.2001 and the further appeal was decided by the
Appeal Chamber on 8.4.2003 dismissing the appeals and confirming the
convictions. 6.10.4 Important preliminary orders of the Tribunal laying down crucial
principles of law: A: Decision dated 18.3.97 on motion of defence to compel discovery of
 identity and location of prosecution witnesses: ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- Art. 21: Rights of the accused: present statute, the accused shall be entitled to the following minimum
guarantees, in full equality: and to communicate with the counsel of his own choosing; obtain the attendance and examination of witnesses on his behalf under the
same conditions as witnesses against him;" In para 17 of the judgment, the Trial Chamber observed that in sub
Rule 69(C), the word 'identity' has a significance which goes beyond the
mere protection of those witnesses. A name by itself is not sufficient to
identify the person by whose testimony the charges against the accused are
sought to be proven. To identify the witnesses, therefore, it is necessary for
the Defence to know further particulars about them, which in turn will
satisfy the right of the accused to an adequate preparation of his defence

 The Trial Chamber held in para 18 that Rule 75 requires that the
privacy and protection of the witnesses may be taken into account and
weighed against the rights of the accused. Whilst the Prosecution may,
under Rule 39(ii), take special measures to provide for the safety of
potential witnesses, these measures relate to the investigative stages of the
case. It is not for the Prosecution to provide assurances to witnesses once it
has decided that these witnesses will be called to give testimony before the
Tribunal. The guarantee of any necessary protective measures is solely a
matter for determination by the Trial Chamber. It said in para 19 that there is no real opportunity to the defence
without a proper appreciation of those witnesses. The basic right of the
accused to examine witnesses, read in conjunction with the right to have
adequate time for the preparation of his defence, therefore, envisages more
than a blind confrontation in the Court room. A proper in-Court 398 examination depends upon a prior out-of-Court investigation. Sub rule 69 (c) reflects this by referring to a 'sufficient time prior to the trial'. The term 'identity' (para 20) does not necessarily include the present
addresses of the witnesses. Substantial identification would mean the sex,
date of birth, names of parents, place of origin or town or village where the
witness resided at the time relevant to the charges. The Trial Chamber gave the directions already referred to above,
except in relation to the present addresses of the witnesses. (B) 8.10.97: Decision on prosecution motion for additional measures of
protection for prosecution witnesses. This application was rejected without much discussion. (C) 25.9.97: Decision on confidential motion for protective measures for
defence witnesses. The Trial Chamber gave witness pseudonym protection as 'witness
mucic/A' in all proceedings and discussions. It said that the names,
addresses and whereabouts of and any other detail concerning 'witness
Mucic/A' shall not be disclosed to the public or to the media and this
information shall be sealed and not included in the public records of the
Tribunal identifying 'witness Mucic/A'. The details shall not be disclosed
to the public, the media or any other party. The Trial Chamber left the question of 'relocation' of the witnesses to
be decided by the 'Victims and Witnesses Unit', established under Rule 34,
acting under the authority of the Registrar. The request of the Defence was heard ex parte and in closed session
for grant of interim protection, at this stage, where the witness is a potential
witness'. It was considered that the witness could be granted interim
protection by use of pseudonym though, when the Defence decides to make
him an 'actual witness', the question could be decided by giving notice to
the prosecutor. The Trial chamber referred to an earlier decision that grant of
pseudonym could be considered necessary if the fear of a witness has been
found to be real. The Chamber held that the particular defence witness will be called
'Witness Mucic/A' in all proceedings before the Tribunal and discussions.
The name, address, whereabouts of and any other data including documents
concerning 'witness Mucic/A' shall not be disclosed to the public or to the
media and this information shall be sealed and not included in the public
records of the Tribunal, until further orders. (D) 13.6.97: Decision on the motion to compel the disclosure of the
addresses of the defence witnesses. This was an application filed by the prosecutor for disclosure of the
addresses of the defence witnesses for Esad Landzo, on the question of the
alibi pleaded by the defence. The provision of Rule 67 deal with 'Reciprocal Disclosure'. They read as
follows: Rule 66: Disclosure by the Prosecutor

"Rule 66: documents, photographs and tangible objects in his
 custody or control, which are material to the
 preparation of the defence, or are intended for use by
 the Prosecutor as evidence at trial or were obtained
 from or belonged to the accused. (C) Where information is in the possession of the
 Prosecutor, the disclosure of which may prejudice
 further or ongoing investigation, or for any other
 reasons may be contrary to the public interest or
 affect the security interests of any State, the
 prosecutor may apply to the Trial Chamber sitting in
 camera to be relieved from the obligation to disclose
 pursuant to Sub rule (B). When making such
 application the Prosecutor shall provide the Trial
 Chamber (but only the Trial Chamber) with the
 information that is sought to be kept confidential." The Prosecutor requested the Defence (for accused Esad Landzo) to be
ordered to disclose the addresses of those witnesses whom they intend to
call on the defence of alibi and special defence of diminished or lack of 402 mental capacity. It argued that Sub-Rules 67(A)(ii)(a) and (b) require such
disclosure and that the order of the Trial Chamber dated 25.1.97 also
required that there be additional disclosure of the witnesses' curriculum
vitae and a statement on the area (areas) about which they will testify. The
names and addresses of some defence witnesses were disclosed; those of 13
others were not disclosed. The Defence contended that in the light of the subsequent leakage
(after the Trial Chamber's decision dated 18.3.97) to the Press concerning
many of these witnesses' identities, it has proved rather fortuitous that the
addresses of these 13 witnesses were not furnished by the defence and the
leakage must be avoided. Those witnesses who live in Yugoslavia would be
subject to great risk if their identity/addresses were disclosed. The defence
relied on Sub-Rule 66(c). The Trial Chamber then held that the 18.3.97 decision was not based
on Sub rule 67(A)(ii) in as much as the present issue was about alibi
witnesses and special defence of diminished or lack of mental capacity. The
argument of Defence that there was no reciprocity could not be accepted as
that issue was about alibi-witnesses (which is based on Rule 67(A)(ii) while
Rule 67(A)(1) which refers to the prosecutor witnesses) is separate. As held
by the Trial Chamber on 18.3.97, the Prosecutor must provide the Defence
with identifying information about all its witnesses, whereas the Defence
was obliged to provide information only about those witnesses who would
speak on alibi and special defence. Therefore the Defence must provide the
names and addresses as per Sub Rule 67(A)(ii). Both parties must circulate 403 the curriculum vitae in advance to each other of their intended expert
witnesses, as well as statements about the areas to which they will testify. However, it was open to either of the parties to apply for protective
measures to be granted to particular witnesses who may be at risk and
therefore, the Defence can also do this instead of seeking to avoid the
obligations on general pleas of potential threat to witnesses. It further
observed: The Trial Chamber granted the prosecution motion and directed the defence
(for Esad Landzo) to provide the names and addresses of all defence
witnesses who are expected to depose on alibi or other special defence to
the Prosecutor. (E) 28.5.97: Decision on motion to allow K, L, M to give testimony by
means of Video-link. On 3.4.97, the Prosecutor filed a motion to allow witnesses K, L and
M to give their testimony by video-link conference. The defence for Hazim
Debi filed its response. The Prosecution requested that these three witnesses be designated by
pseudonyms K, L and M and be permitted to give evidence by video-link.
The motion was confined to K, L and M only in view of the fear of
potentially serious consequences to themselves and their families. It relied
on Prosecutor vs. Dusko Tadic (25.6.96) as the two conditions stated there
were satisfied - namely, (a) the testimony of three witnesses was sufficiently important to
 make it unfair to the Prosecutor to proceed without it, and (b) the witnesses were unable or were unwilling to come to the
 Tribunal (in the present case for serious medical reasons). The Defence relied upon Article 21(4)(e) of the Statute and Rule 89
of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence which protect the right of the
accused to confront witnesses in open Court. The Trial Chamber referred to the following provisions: Sub Rules 89(A) and (B) provide as follows: Rule 71 (see sub rule 90(A)) is not the only exception allowed by the
Rules. Under sub-Rule 75(B)(iii), when the Trial Chamber grants measures
to facilitate the testimony of vulnerable victims and witnesses, such
measures may involve the use of one-way closed circuit television. Accordingly, there are exceptions to the general rule when the right of the
accused under Art 21(4)(e) is not prejudicially affected. The Trial Chamber then stated as follows: The Trial Chamber further stated: As to the accused's rights, the Trial Chamber said: On facts, it held: Finally, the Trial Chamber in para 21 referred to the guidelines as to
video-link evidence as stated in the Tadic decision in para 22 thereof: And continued: (F) 28.4.97: Decision on the motion by prosecution for protective
 measures pseudonymed 'B' to 'M'. This matter related to all the four accused Zejmit Delalic, Zdiavka
Mucia, Hazim Deliv and Esad Landzo. The Trial Chamber quoted the relevant rules of Procedure and
Evidence. They are as follows: Rule 90: Testimony of Witnesses

 (A) Witnesses shall, in principle, be heard directly by the Chamber
 unless a Chamber has ordered that the witness be heard by
 means of a deposition as provided for in Rule 71. ........................ .... .... ... ..." In the case on hand, the prosecution prayed for 11 separate protective
measures for the 12 witnesses 'B' to 'M' and certain special measures to
witness 'B'. The Chamber characterized them as falling into 3 groups: On these issues, the Trial Chamber, after referring to the elaborate
arguments of both sides, proceeded to state as follows. It said that Art. 15 of the Statute enables the Judges to frame rules of procedure and evidence,
including rules for protection of victims and witnesses. Art 22 provides that
the measures set out in such rules shall 414 "include, but shall not be limited to, the conduct of in camera
 proceedings and the protection of the victim's identity." After referring to Art 14 of the ICCPR, the Trial Chamber referred to Art.
21(4) which prescribes minimum guarantees of fair trial and in particular to
sub. cl (e) thereof which refers to the right to witness examination by open
confrontation and to Rules 69, 75, 79, 90 and 96, and dealt with the various
issues, as follows: disclosure of identifying information to the public or the media. This
would, no doubt, somewhat encroach into the right of the accused for a
'public-hearing', a right guaranteed under Art 21(2) of the statute and a
requirement of Art 20(4), unless otherwise directed by the Trial Chamber.
Rule 78 is based on Art. 20(4). The circumstances under which the
public/media could be excluded are set out in Rule 79. (This aspect,
covered 11 out of 12 witnesses). Reasons assigned were 'fear' that public
knowledge of their testimony would result in danger to themselves and their
families (and in case of witness 'C', it was not fear but 'privacy'). The Trial
Chamber II then referred to the ruling in Prosecutor vs. Dusko Tadic: (d.
31.7.96), construing the provisions of Rule 79(A)(ii) wherein it was stated: The Trial Chamber stated that the 'protection of the witness by in
camera proceedings does not invariably detract from the right of the
accused, nor from the duty of the Trial Chamber to give full respect to the
right of the accused (see Rule 75(B)(i)). It stated that the Trial Chamber
notes the importance of not denying the right of the accused for a public
hearing except for good reasons. Rule 75A provides that "a Judge or a
Chamber may proprio motu or at the request of either party, or of the victim
or witness concerned, or of the Victims and Witnesses Unit, order
appropriate measures for the privacy and protection of victims and
witnesses provided that the measures are consistent with the rights of the
accused." The Chamber quoted the principal advantage of permitting the public
and the press to a hearing, namely, that it 'contributes to ensuring a fair 416 trial'. In Pretts & Ors vs. Italy : (1984) 6 EHRR 182, it was stated by
European Court that: The Chamber stated that a public hearing is mainly for the benefit of the
accused and not necessarily for the public. It quoted Chief Justice Warren
in Estes vs. Texas (1965) 381. US 532 of US Supreme Court to the
following effect: The Trial Chamber must balance both interests - that is a balance between
the accused and the victim/witness. Rule 79 enables the exclusion of the
press and public from the proceedings for various reasons including the
safety of the victim/witness. Several Rules relate to the maintaining of a balance between the right
of the accused to a public hearing and the protection of victims and
witnesses. Rule 69 allows non-disclosure at the 'pre-trial' stage, of the
identity of a victim or witness who may be in danger until the witness is 417 brought under the protection of the International Tribunal. This non-
disclosure applies to the press, public and the accused. Under Rule 75,
appropriate measures consistent with the rights of the accused may be taken,
to protect victims and witnesses. Rule 79 enables the exclusion of the press
and public from the proceedings on the ground of public order, or morality,
or the safety or non-disclosure of the identity of victim or witness or the
protection of the interests of justice. The Trial Chamber observed: The Trial Chamber refused to grant all the prayers for closed sessions
asked for in relation to the various witnesses and held that 'a combination of
protective measures, including closed sessions, will satisfy the needs of the
witnesses and constitute adequate protective measures in these
proceedings'. As to 'witness C' (a male), a victim of sexual assault, the prayer for a
closed session was allowed. Public order or morality were good reasons for
excluding media and public (under Rule 79(A)(i)). In a number of
jurisdictions, both civil and common law, identity of an alleged victim of
sexual assault is kept away from the public - section 4 of the (UK) Sexual
Offences (Amendment) Act, 1976, permitting anonymity in name, address
or picture and Canadian Criminal Code (1954), sec. 442(3) permits granting
anonymity from the public, upon application to Court. Civil law jurisdictions such as Switzerland, Denmark and Germany
have similar legislations. Swiss law prohibits the publication of identity of
a victim if it is necessary to protect the interests of the prosecution or if the
victim requests non-disclosure. The Court room may be closed during the
victim's testimony. In Denmark, a victim in an incest or rape case, may
request a trial in camera and the request would be granted. In Germany,
publicity can be restricted or excluded, in order to protect the accused and
witnesses. Further, in Prosecutor vs. Dusko Tadic (dt. 10.8.95) the majority
cited several cases decided in the US, permitting non disclosure of identity
of sexually assault victims. (Florida vs. B.J.F (1989) 491 US 524, Waller
vs. Georgia (1984) 467 US 39; for partial closure see Douglas vs. Wainright
(1984) 739 F.2d. 531 (11th Cir); for total closure see Press-Enterprise Co. vs.
Superior Court: (1984) 464 US 501. In regard to witnesses 'D' through to 'M', the fears were held not to
be fully substantiated and therefore, instead of total confidentiality, the
Chamber directed that the witnesses be shielded from visual recognition by 419 the public and media, but evidence will be in open session but through
image altering devices. (2) Partial Anonymity: It is further observed by the Trial Chamber that it may conceive of a
situation where the rights of the accused can be neutralized by protective
measures. This was not such a case. The allegation of danger to safety was
not substantiated. It was not made out that the witness was very important
for the prosecution. The credibility of the witness had not been
investigated. There was no proof that the physical assaults allegedly 421 suffered by witness 'B' were traceable to any of the accused persons. The
request for testifying from a remote room was accordingly rejected. 'B'
would testify from the court-room, where his demeanour could be observed
by the Judges and the defence counsel. In addition, the accused could see B
in the court-room and might communicate freely with their counsel, during
the course of his direct testimony and cross-examination. (3) Retraumatisation: The Trial Chamber did not prescribe a remote room, but directed a screen to
be placed in the court room to prevent witness B from seeing the accused
and therefore, negate the possibility of the witness being traumatised, as he
had claimed he would be. The Court then gave a number of significant directions. It said: There is an Appeal Chamber which is shared with the International Criminal
Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. (see
http://www.retr.org/english/geninfo/structure.htm) . There is a Witness and
Victims Support Section for Prosecution as well as Defence witnesses, in
order to: This section is responsible for protecting the privacy and ensuring the
security and safety of all witnesses who are called by both the Defence and
the Prosecution. It is also responsible for the movement of the witnesses
from the place of residence to the headquarters of the Tribunal where they
are called to testify. It provides the witnesses with all required assistance to
enable them to travel safely and to testify in a secure and conducive
environment. Under (f) above, the Judge or Chamber may grant measures if
a case is made out for concealment of name or identity from the public and
media. Post-trial witness programme ensures relocation of witnesses
(thought to be particularly at risk), in other countries or within Rwanda.
The Section also organizes, accumulates, provides, multifaceted support and
the physical and international protection of witnesses. The Section ensures
easy immigration to other countries by negotiations through UN. The
Section maintains anonymity of witnesses and following up on them after
their testimony. 6.11.2 Art. 14 of the Statute refers to the Rules of Procedure and Evidence, Art. 20 to the Rights of the accused and Art. 21 to the Rights of Victims and
Witnesses. Article 21: Protection of Victims and Witnesses. 6.11.3 Rules of the Tribunal (1995) : (vi) "Rule 70: Matters not subject to Disclosure: It said that "Many of the eye-witnesses who testified before the Chamber in
this case have seen the atrocities against their family members or close
friends, and/or have themselves been victims of such atrocities. The
possible traumatision of these witnesses caused by their painful experience
of violence during the conflict in Rwanda is a matter of particular concern
for the Chamber. The recounting of this traumatic experience is likely to
evoke memories of the fear and pain once inflicted on the witnesses and
thereby affects his or her ability fully or adequately to recount the sequence
of events in a judicial context". The Chamber did not exclude the possibility of trauma and stress, it
believed the evidence, in spite of discrepancies, and order non-disclosure of
the identity of witnesses to the media or public. The accused were
convicted. CHAPTER VII

 Witness Protection Programmes - A Comparative Study of
 Programmes in various countries

7.0 In the previous Chapter, we have dealt with protection of Witness

Identity in various countries. In the present Chapter, we propose to refer to

Witness Protection Programmes in various countries. Statutes dealing with Witness Identity and Anonymity, as noted in the
previous Chapter, mainly deal with the protection of witnesses' identity
during investigation and trial of criminal cases. However, there are also
specialized Witness Protection Programmes which deal with a slightly
different kind of protection to witnesses and this refers to their protection
outside Court. We shall now proceed to refer to the schemes in various
countries. To start with, it will be useful to refer to the UN Convention in
 regard to Witness Protection. There is a 'United Nations Convention Against Transnational
 Organised Crime'. The purpose of this Convention is to promote
 cooperation to prevent and combat transnational organised crime
 more effectively. Article 24 of the Convention deals with protection
 of witness. It reads as follows:- 7.1 Australia

 7.1.1. Victoria

In Australia, the Parliament of Victoria has enacted 'Witness Protection Act,

1991' (Act 15 of 1991), for the purposes of facilitating the security of

persons who are, or have been, witnesses in criminal proceedings. The Act was amended in 1994 (No. 28/1994) and in 1996( NO. 58/1996). The word

'witness' is defined in section 3 . Section 3A refers to Victorian Witness Protection Programme. As

 per sub section (1) of section 3A, the Chief Commissioner of Police, 436 may take such action as he thinks necessary and reasonable to

 protect the safety and welfare of a witness or a member of the family

 of a witness. Actions which can be taken by the Chief Commissioner

 are mentioned in sub-section (2), which reads as follows:- The Chief Commissioner of Police has the sole responsibility of

deciding whether to include or not to include a witness in the Victorian

Witness Protection Programme. A witness may be included in such

Protection Programme only if the Chief Commissioner has decided that the

witness be included and if such witness agrees to be included. Under Section 3B, the Chief Commissioner must also enter into a

memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the witness. The memorandum

of understanding must set out the basis on which the witness is included in

the Victorian Witness Protection Programme and details of the protection

and assistance that are to be provided and should also contain a provision

that protection and assistance may be terminated if the witness commits

breach of a term of the memorandum of understanding (MOU). An MOU

must be signed by the witness or by a parent or guardian or other legal

personal representative of the witness if the witness is under the age of 18 or

otherwise lacks legal capacity to sign. After the signing of the MOU, the Chief Commissioner may apply to

the Supreme Court for a court order authorising a nominated member of the

police force to make a new entry in the Register of Births or Register of

Marriages in respect of the witness and specified members of the family of

the witness. As per section 7 , the Supreme Court may make an authorising

court order if it is satisfied that: The effect of the order of the court is provided in section 8 . On the

making of an court order, the member or members of the police force

nominated in the court order may make any type of entries in the Register of

Births and Register of Marriages that are necessary to give effect to the

order. An entry made in these registers under this Act can be cancelled by

the Registrar, if the Supreme Court has made a court order on the

application of the Chief Commissioner of Police directing that the entry be

cancelled. Proceedings of the Supreme Court for authorising any court

order under this Act have to be in a closed proceeding. Any information relating to the making of an entry in the Register of

Births and Register of Marriages under this Act should not be disclosed or

communicated to another person unless it is necessary to do so for the

purpose of the Act or to comply with an order of the Supreme Court. Any

person who violates this provision may be punished for imprisonment for

ten years. Section 16 provides for cessation of protection and assistance. Sub

section (1) states that protection and assistance provided to a person under

the Victorian Protection Programme shall be terminated by the Chief

Commissioner on the request made by that person in writing that it be

terminated. The protection and assistance may also be terminated by the

Chief Commissioner if- (a) the person deliberately breaches a term of MOU or a

 requirement or undertaking relating to the programme; or (b) the person's conduct or threatened conduct is, in the opinion

 of the Chief Commissioner, likely to threaten the security or

 compromise the integrity of the programme; or (c) the circumstances that gave rise for the need for protection

 and assistance for the person ceased to exist. The Chief Commissioner shall notify his decision to terminate

protection and assistance to the concerned person. After receiving the

notification, the concerned person may, within 28 days, apply in writing to

the Chief Commissioner for a review of the decision. If the Chief

Commissioner after the review confirms the decision, the concerned person

may within 3 days, appeal to the deputy Ombudsman. If under the Victorian Witness Programme, a person has been

provided with a new identity and, thereafter, protection and assistance to the

person under the programme are terminated, then the Chief Commissioner,

may take such action as is necessary to restore the person's former identity. 7.1.2 National Capital Territory: As per section 5 , the assessment and inclusion in the Witness

Protection Programme shall be done in accordance with the similar

provisions contained in the Commonwealth's Witness Protection Act, 1994. The Chief Police Officer, under section 6 , may apply for any

document which is necessary to allow a witness to establish a new identity; or otherwise to protect the witness. The Chief Police Officer under section

7 , may apply to the Supreme Court for a court order authorising a specified

person or a person of a specified class or description of persons- (a) to make a new entry in the register in relation to a

 witness; or (b) to issue in the witness's new identity, a document of a

 kind previously issued to the witness. The Supreme Court may make a witness protection order under section 8 , if the conditions laid down in clause (a) to (d) thereof - which are

on the same lines as sec. 7 of the Victorian Statute, 1991 - are satisfied. If the witness protection order relates to making a new entry in the

Register, then the person authorised to do so by the order may make any

type of entries in the Register that are necessary to give effect to that order. An entry made in the Register under the Act of 1996 has the same effect as 443 if it were an entry made under the Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration

Act, 1997. An entry made in the register may also be cancelled by the

Registrar General if the Supreme Court has made an order on the

application of the Chief Police Officer directing that the entry be cancelled. (see Sections 10 and 11 ). The hearing in the Supreme Court under this Act

shall not be open to public. As per section 13 , no person shall directly or

indirectly, make a record of, or disclose, or communicate to another person

any information relating to the making of an entry under the Act in the

Register, unless it is necessary to do so for the purpose of or for

investigation by the ombudsman or to comply with an order of the Supreme

Court. Imprisonment upto 10 years may be awarded in case a person is

found guilty of this provision. Provisions as to non-disclosure of former

identity of participant are contained in section 14 . Sub section (1) of sec. 14 reads as follows: the participant is not required to disclose his or her former

 identity to any person for that purpose." It will be seen that as per sub-section (1) of sec. 14 , when a

participant has been provided with a new identity under the Witness

Protection Programme, he would, apart from this section, be required to

disclose his or her identity if required by or under a Territory law and, if the

Chief Police Officer has given to him the permission in writing not to

disclose his or her former identity for that purpose; the participant is not

required to disclose his former identity to any person for that purpose. Sub

section (2) provides that if a participant has been given permission under

section (1) not to disclose his former identity for a particular purpose, it will

be lawful for the participant, in any proceedings or for any purpose, under

or in relation to the relevant Territory law to claim that his new identity is

his only identity. According to section 15 , when a person is provided with a

new identity and that person is to be a witness in a criminal proceeding 445 under that identity, 'but that person has a criminal record under his former

identity', then such person should notify the Chief Police Officer that the

person is to be a witness in the proceeding. After being notified, the Chief

Police Officer may take any action which is appropriate in the

circumstances. That action may include disclosing to the court, the

prosecutor and the accused person or the accused's lawyer the criminal

record of the participant. It is provided in section 16 that when the identity of a participant is in

issue or may be disclosed in any proceeding in a court, tribunal, royal

commission or board of inquiry, such court, tribunal etc. shall conduct that

part of the proceedings that relates to the identity of the participant, in

private. The court, tribunal etc. as the case may be, shall also make the

order that the evidence given in such court or other body shall not be

published so that the identity of the participant may not be disclosed. Similarly when a participant who has been provided with a new identity is

giving evidence in any proceeding in a court or tribunal, such court or

tribunal may also direct that that part of the proceedings shall be in the

absence of the public. In the Witness Protection Act, 1996 there are provisions which deal

with rights and obligations of the participants. If a participant has any 446 outstanding rights or obligations or is subject to any restriction, Section 19

(1) provides that the Chief Police Officer is required to take steps that are

reasonably practicable to ensure that those rights or obligations are dealt

with according to law; or the concerned person complies with those

according to law; or the concerned person complies with those restrictions. When a participant who has been provided a new identity uses the new

identity either to avoid obligations that were incurred before the new

identity was established or to avoid complying with restrictions that were

imposed on the person before the new identity was established, then as per section 20 the Chief Police Officer, shall give written notice to the

participant stating that he is satisfied that participant is avoiding obligations

or complying with restrictions. Any disclosure made by any person about the identity or location of

any participant or any disclosure which compromises the security of such

participant, are made offences under section 21 . Imprisonment upto 10

years may be imposed if any person found guilty of committing such

offence. Disclosure made by the participant or former participant is also an

offence under section 22 . 7.1.3 Australian Crime Commission Bill, 2003 447 The Bill contemplates the appointment of a Commission to
 investigate into criminal activities of various persons.
 There are provisions proposed in the Australian Crime
 Commission Bill, 2003 which protect the witness who
 appears before the Commission. Clause 29 of the Bill
 which is relevant is reproduced here: or (b) proposes to give or has given information, or proposes to produce

 or has produced a document or thing, to the Australian Crime

 Commission (ACC), otherwise than at an examination before the

 examiner; the safety of the person may be prejudiced or the person may be

subjected to intimidation or harassment, the examiner may make the

arrangements (including arrangements with the Territory Minister or

with members of the police force) that are necessary to avoid

prejudice to the safety of the person, or to protect the person from

intimidation or harassment". 7.1.4 Queensland

 In Queensland, the Crime and Misconduct Commission (CMC)

administers the Witness Protection Programme. This programme provides

protection to persons eligible under the Witness Protection Act, 2000 . In

fact the Witness Protection Programme commenced in August, 1987 during

the Fitzgerald Commission of Inquiry into police corruption, when it

became necessary to protect several important witnesses who were able to

give direct evidence of crime and corruption. At the end of Fitzgerald

Inquiry, the Witness Protection Division was established as a separate

organisational unit within the newly created Criminal Justice Commission. The Criminal Justice Commission merged with the Queensland Crime

Commission to become the CMC on January 1st, 2002. Evidence (Witness Anonymity) Amendment Act, 2000: (Queensland)

 The Parliament of Queensland has enacted, 'Evidence (Witness

Anonymity) Amendment Act, 2000, by which Evidence Act, 1977 has been

amended and Division 5 regarding 'witness anonymity' has been inserted. Section 21C refers to the scope of applicability of this newly inserted 449 Division. According to this section, this Division is applicable to a

proceeding in which a witness, who is or was a covert operative is or may

be required to give evidence that was obtained when the operative was

engaged in activities for a 'controlled operation'. Here 'Controlled

Operation' means an operation approved under the Police Powers and

Responsibilities Act, 2000 for the purpose of an investigation being

conducted by a law enforcement agency. 'Covert Operative' means a police

officer or other person named as a covert operative in an approved operation

under the Police Powers and Responsibilities Act, 2000. As per section

21D (1), a witness anonymity certificate may be given by the Chief

Executive Officer of a law enforcement agency, if the officer considers that

it is necessary to protect a person who is, or was, a covert operative for the

agency and he is or may be required to give evidence in the proceeding. A

witness anonymity certificate may also be given by a senior police officer

for police service, under sub-section (2). The power under these sub

sections(1) and (2) may not be delegated. A decision to give a witness

anonymity certificate is final and conclusive and cannot be impeached for

informality or want of form and also cannot be appealed against, reviewed,

quashed or invalidated in any court. Effect of witness anonymity certificate

is provided in section 21F which reads as follows- Under sec. 21G, the relevant law enforcement agency is required to give a

copy of the witness anonymity certificate to the following- (a) for criminal proceeding - each accused person or the person's

 lawyer. (b) for civil proceeding - each party to the proceeding or the party's

 lawyer. (c) for any other proceeding - each person who has been given leave

 to appear in the proceeding or the person's lawyer. Under sec. 21H, the relevant entity (which means the entity before

whom the relevant proceeding is being heard or conducted) may make any

order which it considers necessary to protect the identity of the protected

witness. For example, an order prohibiting sketching of the witness or an

order that the witness shall give evidence in the absence of the public, can

be passed. Any contravention of such an order is a punishable offence. However, under section 21I, the relevant entity may, on application to it,

give leave to ask questions of a witness including a protected witness, in

respect of his identity or place of residence. But, the leave shall not be

granted unless the relevant entity is satisfied that - (a) there is some evidence that, if believed, it would call into question

 the credibility of the protected witness; and 452 (b) it is in the interests of justice for the relevant party to be able to

 test the credibility of the protected witness; and (c) it would be impracticable to test properly the credibility of the

 protected witness without knowing the actual identity of the

 witness. 7.2 SOUTH AFRICA

 In South Africa, 'Witness Protection Act, 1998' is applicable for the

purpose of protection of witnesses. An office known as Office for Witness

Protection is established. The head of the office is called Director. Powers,

functions and duties of the Director are prescribed in section 4 . Branch

offices may also be established and Witness Protection Officer can be

appointed as head of such branch offices. Under sec. 7 , an application for witness protection may be given. Any witness who has reason to believe that his safety or the safety of any

related person may be threatened by any person or group of persons by

reason of his being a witness, may report accordingly and apply that he or 453 any related person be placed under protection. Such report may be made (i)

to the investigating officer; (ii) to any person in charge of a police station; (iii) to the in-charge of the prison if he is in prison; (iv) to any person

registered as a social worker under the Social Works Act, 1978, if he is in

prison; (v) to the public prosecutor; (vi) to any member of the office of the

witness protection. Under sec. 7(2) , if such witness is unable to make a report or make an

application for protection, any interested person or investigation officer may

make such report or application on behalf of the witness. Any person to whom such report or application is made, shall

forthwith inform the Director and submit the application to the Director or a

Witness Protection Officer. The Director may refer an application to a

Witness Protection Officer for evaluation and the submission of a report. Under sec. 9 , the Witness Protection Officer shall consider the merits

of an application and, as soon as possible, report thereon to the Director. The report shall be in writing and should include particulars as to (a)

whether a person concerned is a witness or not; (b) recommendations as to

whether the person concerned qualifies for protection; (c) the factors taken

into consideration and (d) any other matter. Witness Protection Officer

may also recommend with regard to the nature and expected duration of the 454 protection. If the Witness Protection Officer recommends that the

application for protection be refused, he shall inform the Director, of the

reasons for such recommendation. Section 8 deals with interim protection, pending disposal of the

application filed under sec. 7 . The Director or a Witness Protection Officer,

may, pending the finalisation of an application for protection of a witness,

place the witness or related person under temporary protection for a period

not exceeding 14 days for the safety of such witness or related persons. Section 10(1) provides that the Director, while considering an

application for protection, should take into account- Section 10(3) refers to an agreement between the witness and the

Director in regard to the protection of the witness, which may be entered

into under sec. 11 . Sec. 10(3) states that after having considered the

application for protection, the Director may, (i) either approve the

application and thereupon, the witness or related person under protection, in

accordance with the agreement entered into by or on behalf of the witness or

related person and the Director) or (ii) refuse the application. Section 11 provides that the Director must, before he places any witness

or related person under protection, enter into a witness protection agreement

with such witness or related person setting out the obligations of the

Director and the witness or related person in respect of such placement

under protection. Obligations of the Director and the witness or related

person are provided in sub section (4) of section 11 . They include: "(a) An obligation on the Director - (i) to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to provide the

 protected person with the protection and related services, as

 referred to in the protection agreement concerned; and (ii) not to keep a protected person under protection in any

 prison or police cell, unless otherwise agreed upon; (b) an obligation on the witness or the related person - (i) where applicable, to give the evidence as required in the

 proceedings to which the protection relates; (ii) to meet all financial obligations incurred by him or her that are

 not payable by the Director in terms of the protection agreement; (iii) to meet all legal obligations incurred by him or her, including

 any obligations regarding the custody and maintenance of children

 and taxation obligations; (iv) to refrain from activities that constitute a criminal offence; (v) to refrain from activities that might endanger his or her safety

 or that of any other protected person; (vi) to accept and give effect to all reasonable requests and

 directions made or given by any members of the Office in relation

 to the protection provided to him or her and his or her obligations; (vii) to inform the Director of any civil proceedings which have or

 may be instituted by or against him or her or in which he or she is

 otherwise involved; (viii) to inform the Director of any civil proceedings which have

 or may be instituted by or against him or her or in which he or she

 is involved, either as a witness or as accused or otherwise; and (ix) not to endanger the security or any other aspect of the

 protection of witnesses and related persons or related services or

 any other matter relating to a witness protection programme

 provided for in this Act; (c) any other prescribed terms and conditions or obligations agreed

 upon; and (d) a procedure in accordance with which the protection agreement

 may, if necessary, be amended." Section 12 deals with 'protection to minors'. Under sec. 13(10) , the Director may, on his own accord, or upon

receipt of a report from the Witness Protection Officer and after considering

any representation of the protected person, by written notice, discharge any

protected person. However, under sec. 14 , the Minister of Justice may review the

decision of the Director to discharge any person from protection. Any

person who feels aggrieved by any decision of or steps taken by the

Director, may apply to the Minister to review the decision of the Director. Section 15 deals with civil proceedings to which a protected person is a

party or in which he is a witness. According to this section, if it appears to a

judge of a High Court in an ex-parte application made to him by the

Director, that the safety of any protected person might be endangered by the

institution or prosecution of any civil proceedings in which a protected

person is a party or a witness, the judge may make any appropriate order

with regard to the institution or prosecution or postponement of those

proceedings. The purpose of the order shall be to prevent the disclosure of

the identity or whereabouts of the said protected person or to achieve the

objects of the Act. Section 16 refers to 'access to minor under protection'. Section 17 provides that no person shall disclose any information which

he has acquired in exercise of powers, functions etc. under the Act, except

for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of the Act or when

required to do so by any court. Sub sections (5) to (7) provide the manner

and condition in which the Director may disclose any information. Section 18 prohibits publication of information concerning a protected

person. The Presiding Officer shall make an order prohibiting the

publication of any information, including any drawing, picture, illustration,

painting, photograph (including photographs produced through or by means

of computer software on a screen or a computer print out), pamphlet, poster

or other printed matter, which may disclose- i) the place of safety or location of any protected

 person or where he has been relocated; ii) the circumstances relating to his protection; iii) the identity of any other protected person and the

 place of safety or location when such person is

 being protected; or iv) the relocation or change of identity of a protected

 person. The protected person is, however, not obliged to disclose the

information mentioned above. Section 19 contains a non-obstante clause and provides that no

protected person when giving evidence or producing any book, document

etc. in any proceedings or in any civil proceeding before a court, shall be

obliged to disclose such information. Under Section 20 , the Director may receive any donation, bequest or

contribution in money or otherwise from any source for the purpose of

giving effect to the provisions of the Act. Under section 21 , the Minister of Justice may enter into an agreement

with any international body, institution, organisation or foreign country in

order to - (a) place a person who is being protected under a witness

 protection programme administered by that body,

 institution, organisation or country under protection in

 terms of the Act; (b) admit protected person to a Witness Protection Programme

 in terms of any law applicable to that body, institution,

 organisation or in that country. 7.3 HONG KONG

 In Hong Kong, the Witness Protection Programme is established

under Witness Protection Ordinance (67 of 2000). As per the Ordinance, the

approving authority is required to establish and maintain the Witness

Protection Programme. The approving authority arranges or provides 461 protection and other assistance for witness's personal safety or well being

that may be at risk as a result of being a witness. 'Approving Authority'

means a person designated in writing by the Commissioner of Police or the

Commissioner of the Independent Commission against Corruption. The

approving authority, as per section 4 , has the sole responsibility of deciding

whether or not to include a witness in the Witness Protection Programme. A witness may be included in the Witness Protection Programme only if (a)

the authority has decided that the witness be included; (b) the witness agrees

to be included; and (c) the witness signs a memorandum of understanding. Apart from the nature of the perceived danger to the witness, the approving

authority should, in deciding whether or not to include a witness in the

Witness Protection Programme, have regard to the factors mentioned in sub

section (3) of section 4 . The approving authority may also require a

witness to undergo psychological, psychiatrist, or other medical tests or

examination and make the results available to the authority for the purpose

of assessing whether the witness shall be included in the programme or not. The authority may also make other inquires and investigations. The witness

is required to provide the authority with all necessary information as per section 5 . The contents of the memorandum of understanding are set out in section 6 . When a witness is included in the Witness Protection 462 Programme, the approving authority shall take all necessary and reasonable

actions which are required to protect the witness's safety and welfare. The

approving authority as per section 8 may establish a new identity for a

participant in Witness Protection Programme. Necessary documents shall

be issued for the purpose of establishing the new identity. If a participant

has legal rights or obligations which are outstanding or is subjected to legal

restrictions, the authority shall take reasonable and practicable steps to

ensure that those rights and obligations are dealt with according to law and

that those restrictions are complied with. Section 10 permits non-disclosure

of original identity. Where a participant who has been provided with a new

identity, would be required by or under a law of Hong Kong to disclose his

original identity for a particular purpose, and the approving authority has

given him written permission not to disclose his original identity for that

purpose, the participant is not required to disclose his original identity to

any person for that purpose. He may claim that his new identity is his only

identity. Under section 11 , the approving authority may terminate the

protection of a participant. Where a new identity is issued under the

protection programme and if that protection is terminated as per section 11 ,

the original identity of the participant shall be restored. A Board is established to review certain decisions of approving

authority. The Board is to consist of (i) an officer who is more senior than

the approving authority designated by the Commissioner of Police, and (ii)

two persons who are not public officers. The Board may also consist of

additional members who may or may not be public officers ( section 14 ). A person who is aggrieved by a decision of the approving authority (a) not to include him; (b) to terminate his protection as a participant; or (c)

not to establish a new identity for him as a participant, in the Witness

Protection Programme, may request in writing that the approving authority's

decision be reviewed by the Board. If a participant has been with a new identify or has been relocated

under the Witness Protection Programme and is notified to the appropriate

authority that the participant has been arrested or is liable to arrest for an

arrestable offence, then the approving authority may- i) release the new identity or new location of the participant; ii) provide the criminal record and the finger prints of the

 participant; iii) release other information; and iv) allow officers of the law enforcement agency to interview him. Section 17 prescribes offences. A person is not allowed to disclose

information about the identity or location of a participant or such

information that compromises the security of such a person. Similarly, a

person who is or has been a participant shall not disclose:- Contravention of these conditions are punishable offences. As per section 18 , the approving authority, officers working with such authority or

other public officers performing functions in relation to the Witness

Protection Programme, shall not be required:- Where a participant has to give evidence for the HKSAR in legal

proceedings, the Judge or Magistrate may, upon an ex-parte application by

the prosecution, authorise a police officer to require all members of the

public wishing to enter the court room to- a) identify themselves to the satisfaction of the officer; and b) undergo such search as the officer may require to ensure that they are

 not carrying into the court room anything which would pose a threat

 to the security or well being of the participant. 7.4 CANADA

 In Canada 'Witness Protection Programme Act, 1996' (C.15) has

been enacted. The Act is enacted to provide for the establishment and

operation of a programme to enable certain persons to receive protection. As per sec. 2 , 'protection' is defined as including relocation,

accommodation and change of identity as well as counselling and financial

support. As per section 3 , the purpose of the Act is to promote law- enforcement by facilitating the protection of persons who are involved in 466 providing assistance in law enforcement matters. In order to facilitate the

protection of a witness, a programme known as the Witness Protection

Programme is established under section 4 . The programme is being

administered by the Commissioner of the Force. The Commissioner may

determine whether a witness should be admitted to the programme and the

type of protection to be provided to any protectee. Under sec. 6(1) a witness can be admitted to the programme only if- a) the law enforcement agency or an international criminal court or

 tribunal has made a recommendation for the purpose of

 admission. b) the witness has provided the Commissioner of the Force, such

 information concerning the personal history of the witness which

 enables the Commissioner to consider the factors referred to in section 7 . c) the agreement has been entered into by or on behalf of the witness

 with the Commissioner setting out the obligations of both parties. However, under sec. 6(2) in case of emergency, the Commissioner may

provide protection upto 90 days to a person who has not entered into a

protection agreement referred above. The factors which have to be 467 considered by the Commissioner while determining whether a witness

should be admitted to the programme are set out in section 7 as follows: The obligations under the protection agreement are narrated in section 8. The obligations are as follows: As per section 11(1) , any information about the location or change of

identity of a protectee or former protectee cannot be disclosed by any

person. However, under sec. 11(2) a protectee or former protectee may

disclose such information which does not endanger the safety of another

protectee or former protectee and does not compromise the integrity of the

programme. Further, under sec. 11(3) the Commissioner of Force may

disclose information of the kind mentioned above, in certain circumstances

as stated below: Under sec. 13 , a person whose identity has been changed as a

consequence of the protection, shall not be held liable or punished for

making a claim that the new identity is and has been the person's only

identity. Under sec. 14 , the Commissioner may enter into an agreement with a

law enforcement agency or with the Attorney General of Province to enable

a witness, who is involved in activities of such law enforcement agency or

the Force of such province, to be admitted for the Witness Protection

Programme. Apart from this, the Commissioner may also enter into an

agreement with any provincial authority in order to obtain documents and

other information that may be required for the protection of a protectee. As

per sub sections (2) and (3) of the section 14 , the Minister (Solicitor General

of Canada) may enter into a reciprocal agreement with the Government of a

foreign jurisdiction or with an International Court or tribunal to enable a

witness who is involved in activities of a law enforcement agency in that

jurisdiction of a foreign country or in activities of that court or tribunal, as

the case may be, to be admitted to the Witness Protection Programme. The protection of witness provided under this Act, may be terminated

by the Commissioner of Force. 7.5 PORTUGAL: As per section 21 , any witness or his wife or her husband, ancestors,

 descendants, brothers and sisters or any other person in close contact 473 with him, may also get benefit from a special programme of security

during the running of the proceeding or even after its closure. The

conditions precedents for getting benefit of this programme are:- The content of such special programme of security may contain

following measures:- For the purpose of implementation of such a special programme of

security, a Commission under the direct supervision of the Minister of

Justice has been established. In chapter V of the Act, provisions are made for specially "vulnerable

witnesses". The witness's special vulnerability may be caused by his being

too young or too old, because of his health condition or by the fact that he

has to make a testimony or a statement against a person of his own family,

or against a restricted social group to which he belongs in a condition of

subordination or dependence. Where a specially vulnerable witness is to

take part in a specific procedural act, the relevant judicial authority is

required to make all efforts to ensure that, such procedural act be held in the

best conditions possible in order to seek the spontaneity and the sincerity of

the answers. As per section 27 , the judicial authority shall appoint a social

welfare officer or any other person to accompany the vulnerable witness,

and, if necessary, it shall designate an expert to give the witness

psychological support to the witness. The judicial authority presiding to the

procedural act may authorise the social welfare officer to stand by the

witness during the said procedural act. 7.6 PHILIPPINES

 In Philippines, an Act (which came into force from 24.4.1991),

namely 'Witness Protection, Security and Benefit Act' (Republic Act NO. 6981) is applicable. It provides witness protection, security and benefit

under a programme. This programme is formulated and implemented by the

Department of Justice through its Secretary. Any person who has witnessed

or has knowledge or information regarding the commission of a crime and

has testified or is testifying or is about to testify before any judicial or quasi

judicial body, or before any investigating authority, may be admitted into

the programme if, (a) the offence in which his testimony will be used is a

grave felony or its equivalent; (b) his testimony can be substantially

corroborated in its material points; (c) he or any member of his family or

affinity is subjected to threats to his life or bodily injury or there is

likelihood that he will be killed, forced, intimidated, harassed or corrupted

to prevent him from testifying, or to testify falsely, or evasively, because of

or on account of his testimony; and (d) he is not a law enforcement officer. If the Department of Justice, after examination of the applicant and

taking into consideration other relevant facts, is convinced that the

requirements of the Act or other rules and regulations have been complied 476 with, it shall admit the said applicant to the programme. Thereafter, the

witness shall be required to execute a sworn statement. In case of

legislative investigation in aid of legislation, a witness with his express

consent may be admitted into the programme upon the recommendations of

the legislative committee. As per section 5 , before a person is provided protection under the

Act, he shall be required to execute a memorandum of agreement which

shall set forth his responsibilities including those referred to in this section. Any substantial breach of the memorandum of agreement shall be a ground

for the termination of the protection. All proceedings involving application

for admission into the programme and actions taken thereon, shall be

confidential in nature. No information or documents given or submitted in

support thereof shall be released except upon written order of the

Department or the proper court. Any person who violates the

confidentiality of the said proceedings shall be punished. According to section 8 , a person who is admitted into the programme (i.e.

the witness) shall have the following rights and benefits- (a) To have a secure housing facility until he has testified or until the

 threats, etc. disappear or are reduced to a manageable or tolerable level. When the circumstances warrant, the witness shall also be entitled to 477 relocation and/or change of personal identity at the expense of the

programme. This right may be extended to any member of the family of

the witness or affinity. (b) The Justice Department shall, wherever practicable, assist the witness

in obtaining a means of livelihood. The witness relocated shall be

entitled to financial assistance from the programme for his support and

that of his family. (c) In no case the witness shall be removed from or demoted in work

because of or on account of his absence due to his attendance before any

judicial, quasi judicial or investigating authority including legislative

investigation. But in case of prolonged transfer or permanent relocation,

the employer shall have the option to remove the witness from

employment after securing clearance from the Department. Any witness

who has failed to report for work because of witness duty shall be paid

his equivalent salaries or wages. (d) To be provided with reasonable travelling expenses and subsistence

allowance by the Programme for his attendance in the court, body or

authority, as well as conferences and interviews with prosecutors or

investigating officers. (e) To be provided with free medical treatment, hospitalisation and

medicines for any injury or illness incurred or suffered by him because of

witness duty, in any private or public hospital, clinic or at any such

institution at the expense of the programme. (f) If a witness is killed, because of his participation in the

programme, his heirs shall be entitled to a burial benefit of not less than

Ten thousand Pesos (P, 10,000/-) from the programme. (g) In case of death or permanent incapacity, his minor or dependant

children shall be entitled to free education from primary school to

college level in any state, or private school, college or university. Section 9 provides that in cases where a witness who has been

admitted into the programme has to testify, the judicial, quasi judicial or

investigating authority shall ensure a speedy hearing or trial and shall

endeavour to finish the said proceedings within three months from the

filing of the case. According to section 10 , any person who has

participated in the commission of a crime and desires to be a witness for

the State, can also apply for admitting him into the programme. The

Department of Justice shall admit him into the programme, wherever the

following circumstances are present:- Any witness registered in the programme who fails or has refused to

testify or to continue without just cause when lawfully obliged to do so,

shall be prosecuted for contempt. If he testifies falsely or evasively, he shall

be liable for perjury. Section 14 provides that no witness admitted into the programme can

refuse to testify or give evidence or produce documents etc., necessary for

the prosecution of the offence on the ground of the constitutional right

against self-incrimination. However, he shall enjoy immunity from criminal

prosecution and cannot be subjected to any penalty or forfeiture for any 480 transaction, matter or thing concerning his compelled testimony or

production of documents etc.

 Under section 17 , any person who harasses a witness and thereby

hinders, delays, prevents or dissuades a witness from:- 7.7 U.S.A.

 7.7.1 In United States Code, Title 18, Crimes and Criminal
 Procedure, at part I crimes, in chapter 73 (obstruction of justice),
 there is provision for issuing a temporary restraining order
 prohibiting harassment of victim or witness in Federal Criminal
 cases. As per sec. 1514(a) when a US District Court, upon application of the
 attorney for the Government, finds that there are reasonable grounds
 to believe that harassment of a victim or witness in a Federal
 criminal case exists, it shall issue a temporary restricting order
 prohibiting harassment of such victim or witness, as the case may
 be. This temporary order may be issued without written or oral
 notice to the adverse party. When the temporary order is issued
 without notice, the motion for a protective order shall be set down
 for hearing at the earliest possible time, and after the hearing the
 District court may issue a protective order. Apart from this provision, there are other provisions in the United

States Code, Title 18 - Crimes and Criminal Procedure, in part II - Criminal

Procedure. Chapter 224 thereof deals with protection of witnesses or

potential witnesses for Federal Government or for a State Government in

any official proceeding in connection with organised criminal activity or

other serious offences. Section 3521 makes provision for witness relocation and protection. According to this section, the Attorney General may provide for the

relocation and other protection for a witness. The Attorney General may

also provide for the relocation and other protection of the immediate family

of, or a person otherwise closely associated with such witness or the

potential witness if the family or person may also be endangered on account

of the participation of the witness in the judicial proceeding. The Attorney

General shall take necessary action to protect the person involved from

bodily injury and otherwise to assure the health, safety and welfare of that 482 person including the psychological well being and social adjustment of that

person. The Attorney General may, by regulation; a) provide suitable documents to enable the person to establish a

 new identity or otherwise protect the person; b) provide housing for the person; c) provide for the transportation of household furniture and other

 personal property to a new residence of the person; d) provide to the person a payment to meet basic living expense; e) assist the person in obtaining employment; f) provide other services necessary to assist the person in becoming

 self sustaining; g) disclose or refuse to disclose the identity or location of the person

 relocated or protected or any other matter concerning the

 programme; h) protect the confidentiality of the identity and location of person

 subject to registration requirements as convicted offenders under

 the Federal or State law; i) exempt procurement for service, materials and supplies and the

 renovation and construction of safe sites within existing buildings

 from other provisions of law, as may be required to maintain the 483 security of the protective witness and integrity of the witness

 security programme. Any person who, without the authorisation of the Attorney General,

knowingly discloses any information received from the Attorney General, is

liable to be punished. Before providing protection to any person, the Attorney General shall

enter into a memorandum of understanding with that person setting out the

responsibilities of such person. The MOU shall also set forth the protection

which will be provided to that person. If the Attorney General determines that harm to a person for whom

protection may be provided, is imminent or that failure to provide

immediate protection would otherwise seriously jeopardise any ongoing

investigation, he (Attorney General) may provide temporary protection to

such person. The Attorney General may terminate the protection provided to any

person who substantially breaches the memorandum of understanding, or

who provides false information concerning the MOU or the circumstances

pursuant to which the person was provided protection. However, before

terminating such protection, the Attorney General shall send notice to the 484 person involved, of the termination of the protection and the reasons for the

termination. The decision of the Attorney General to terminate such

protection shall not be subject to judicial review. According to section 3522, a probation officer may, upon the request

of the Attorney General, supervise any person provided protection who is

on probation or parole under State law, if the State consents to such

supervision. The failure by any person provided protection, who is supervised as

mentioned above, to comply with the MOU, shall be ground for revocation

of probation or parole. Section 3523 obliges the Attorney General to serve civil notice issued

by a court on a protected person. The Attorney General shall urge the

protected person to comply with a court judgment. Section 3525 requires the Attorney General to pay compensation to

the victim of a crime where such crime causes or threatens death or causes

serious bodily injury and where the offence is committed by the protected

person during the period of protection. The Attorney General, as per section 3526 may provide protection to
 a person on the request of a State Government also but the
 expenses involved are reimbursable by the requesting State
 Government. 7.7.2 Victim Witness Protection Programme at Western District, New York
(at the US Attorney's Office): In the United States of America, the
'Department of Justice Victim Witness Program' was established. It was a
result of the Victim and Witness Protection Act, 1982, the victims of Crime
Act, 1984, the Violent Crime Control Act, 1996, the Anti-Terrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act, 1996 and the Victims Rights Clarification Act,
1997. Also are relevant, the Crime Control Act, 1990, Violent Crime
Control and Law Enforcement Act, 1994, Mandatory Victims Restitution
Act, 1996. The Acts guarantee federal victims and witnesses, certain rights
and they impose significant duties and responsibilities on the US Attorney's
Office. The Victim and Witness Protection Act, 1982, referred to above, contains
several provisions to aid victims and witnesses of federal crimes. It is
applicable to all victims of serious crime, personal violence, attempted or
threatened personal violence or significant property loss. The basic
provisions of the Act relate to (1) notification (2) consultation and (3)
referral services for victims and witnesses of serious crime. The UN Attorney's office for the Western District of New York,
which covers 17 counties, has several items in the programme. Under the
programme a 'victim' is defined as one who suffers direct or threatened
physical, emotional or financial harm as a result of the commission of a
crime. The definition includes 'spouse, legal guardian, parent, child, sibling
or another family member for any victim below 18 years age, incompetent,
incapacitated or deceased. Institutional entities can also be termed as
'victims'. Any person who is culpable for the crime being investigated is
not a 'victim'. A 'witness' is defined as someone who has information or evidence
concerning a crime, and provides information regarding his knowledge to a
law enforcement agency. Where the 'witness' is a minor, the term includes
an appropriate family member. The term 'witness' does not include defence
witnesses or those individuals involved in the crime as a perpetrator or
accomplice. The 'Victim-Witness Staff' is available to provide supportive services to
innocent victims and witnesses of a crime. Victims of crime often
experience physical, emotional and financial trauma as a result of their
actions of the accused. As a victim, one has certain rights and the Victim-
Witness-Staff is there to help them understand these rights, and ensure that
they are complied with. 'Victims' Rights': The victims have the right to be treated with dignity and
respect. They have the right to be protected from intimidation and harm.
Victims have the right to be present at all Court proceedings, the right to
confer with government attorney presenting the case, the right to
compensation subject to their meeting the criteria and the right to be
informed concerning the criminal justice process. Services Provided: The New York State Crime Victims' Board provides
services to N.Y. State residents through a network of agencies, as well as,
financial aid, such as payment of medical expenses, counselling expenses,
lost earnings, burial expenses etc. to victims of crimes. Notification: The Staff provides notification to victims and witnesses
regarding the case status and court proceedings. Consultation: Victims are allowed to provide inputs at various stages of the
case, including the dismissal of charges, release of accused pending trial,
plea agreement terms, victim views on sentencing and restitution. The staff
is available to ensure that the views expressed are communicated to the
Assistant (US) Attorney, assigned to the case. Court Assistances: The Staff is available to accompany the victim/witness
to the court proceedings. Criminal Justice Process: The judicial system can be very confusing to
those who are involved in a criminal case. Therefore, the staff is there to
help explain each step of the process and to notify the provisions, about all
the court dates, times and locations and confirms the presence of the
victim/witness, if needed. The Staff will explain the persons what he or she
can expect when they are in the court. Transportation to Court: The Staff can arrange transportation of the
victim/witness, if necessary, from the place of the residence to the Court. Referral services: In cases where victims require medical or counselling
referrals, the staff will provide victims with a list of applicable services
located in the victim's area. Services include counselling, shelters, housing
and many emergency referrals. Other services: Impact Assessments: A victim's written or verbal statement
is submitted to the Judge to review, before sentencing the defendant. It
personalizes to the Judge regarding the emotional, physical and financial
impact the victim or witness has suffered as a direct result of the crime. The
Staff will provide a Forum to the victim/witness prior to the sentencing. Verbal-Victim Impact Statement: Violent crime victims and victims of
sexual abuse have the right to make a victim impact statement at sentencing. Resources for Protection by Staff: The Staff has certain resources available
to assist victims and witnesses who feel threatened or who have threats. Victim's privacy: The US Attorney's office takes every precaution to
ensure that the victim's and witness's privacy is maintained. Separate Waiting Area: Witnesses waiting to testify can wait in a separate
area and away from the defendant. The Staff is available to ensure the
witness's comfort while waiting to testify. Safekeeping and Prompt Return of Property: Every effort is made to return
the personal property to victims as soon as the circumstances of the case
permit. Notification to Employer/Creditor: The Staff can write a letter, where a
victim or witness requests it, to the employer certifying that the person's
presence is required in Court, or to the creditor, as to the trouble the person
is experiencing in repayment,- because of the trauma of the crime. 7.7.3 Victim-Witness Programme of District of Maryland (at the US
 Attrorney's Office): 7.7.4 Victim Witness Protection Programme in Michigan (East District)(at
US Attorney's Office): The programme ensures that crime victims are
informed of their rights and to assist the victims/witnesses throughout the
criminal court process. The Unit remains committed to expanding efforts to
assist victims in need of justice and healing after the crime. 7.7.5 Witness Security and US Marshall's Service: The service provides
for the security, health and safety of government witnesses and their
immediate dependants - whose lives are in danger as a result of their
testimony against drug traffickers, terrorists, organized crime-member and
other major criminals. The Witness Security Programme was authorized by the Organised
Crime Control Act, 1970 and amended by the Comprehensive Crime
Control Act, 1984. (See also Witness Security Reform Act 1984). Since its
inception, more than 7500 witnesses and over 9500 family members have
entered the Programme and have been protected, relocated and given new
identities by the Marshal's service. The successful operation of this programme is widely recognized as
providing a unique and valuable tool in the government's war against major
criminal conspirators and organized crime. Since the programme's 492 inception, it has obtained an overall conviction rate of 89% as a result of
protected witness's testimony. Witnesses and their families get typically new identities with
authentic documentation or by relocation. Housing, medical care, job
training and employment can also be provided. Subsistence funding to
cover basic living expenses is also provided to the witnesses until they
become self-sufficient in the relocation area. The Service provides 24-hour protection to all witnesses while they
are in a high threat environment, including pre-trial conferences, trial
testimony and other Court appearances. In both criminal and civil matters involving protected witnesses, the
Marshall's service cooperates fully with local enforcement and civil
authorities in bringing witnesses to justice or in having them fulfill their
legal responsibilities. A recidivism study found that less than 17% of
protected witnesses with criminal histories are arrested and charged after
joining the programme. 7.8 France

In France, Article 706-57 to 706-63 of Penal Procedures Code
contains provision for protection of witnesses. In regard to the
procedure relating to a crime or an offence punishable with
imprisonment upto five years, if it is found that there is danger to the
life or the physical integrity of the witness, or any member of his
family or of a close relative, then the examining-magistrate-public-
prosecutor will be justified in authorising declaration of such
witness as protected without his identity appearing in the file of the
procedure. In no circumstances can the identity or the address of
such a witness be disclosed. The revelation of the identity or the
address of such witness is a punishable offence. The above
mentioned protections are not available where the knowledge of the
identity of such person is essential to the exercise of the right of
defence. 7.9 Czechoslovakia

 Czechoslovakia is having a law on the special protection of
witnesses and other persons. In this regard amendment to the Penal
Programme Code was adopted by Act NO. 141/2001 which came into
force on 1.5.2001. The fundamental goal of this Act is to secure
adequate legal regulations for the special protection of witnesses
against all forms of direct or indirect threat, pressure or blackmail in
connection with the penal action. The Act includes an all-embracing
protection of witnesses in the most serious cases of criminal
activity, especially organised crime. A special programme of protection has been prescribed for
witnesses who are threatened under that programme. They will be
provided with personal protection, protection of dwelling, movement
within the Czech Republic and abroad, help in finding work, social
help, and in the more serious cases, disguised identity. 7.10 Republic of Korea

The Republic of Korea enacted its Witness and Victim Protection
Law on 31st August, 1999 which came into force in June, 2000. The
law covers not only the victim or the witness, but also extends
protection to their families. If there is a possibility that a witness
may be the target of retaliatory action, his name may be kept
confidential and he may be given police protection. When the
witness or victim sustains financial loss as a result of the crime or
the investigation, he may be granted relief money for the loss
suffered. And in the event there is a need for such witness to
transfer his residence or secure new employment, he may be
furnished some assistance at government expense. 7.11 Japan

 Japan has evolved a comprehensive Witness Protection
Programme under its Code of Criminal Procedure (CCP) which was
amended on 18th August, 1999 and 19th May, 2000. Under section 96 .1(4) in relation to section 89(5) of the CCP, an
accused may be denied bail if there is reasonable ground to believe
that he may threaten or may actually injure the body or damage the
property of a victim or of a witness or relative of the victim/witness. With the recent amendment of Japan's CCP, an attendant of the
witness may be allowed to remain with the witness in the course of
examination, and a screen may be set up between the witness and
accused. One of the innovations introduced is the allowance of
video link examination (w.e.f. November, 2001) where the witness,
being out of the court room, answers the questions of the public
prosecutor or the defence counsel who are in the court room (CCP
157-2-157-4). According to CCP, in order to maintain order in the court, or
when the judge believes that a witness will be unable to fully testify
due to the presence of the accused or of spectators, the court may
order such accused or spectators to withdraw from the court room
during the examination of the witness. Under certain circumstances, CCP also permits the court, to
order the examination of the witness at any place other than the
court, or on dates other than those fixed for public trial even before
the first date fixed for trial. In the latter case, the accused/suspect
and the defence counsel may attend the examination only when the
judge believes their presence will not interfere with the criminal
investigation, and the statement obtained thereby may, as an
exception to the hearsay rule, be admitted in evidence during the
trial even without presenting the declarant. If there is danger that the witness might be injured or his property
damaged, the court may limit the questions by which the domicile or
other personal circumstances of the witness may come to the
knowledge of the defendant. Section 105 .2 of the Penal Code of Japan provides punishment to
any person who intimidates a witness in connection with such
person's or another person's case. 7.12 Netherlands 495 An Act known as ' Witness Protection Act ' (Act of 1 of 1994) was
enacted by the Parliament. Prior to this Act, the Supreme Court
formulated the conditions under which anonymous witness
statement could be used in evidence in criminal cases. Many of
these conditions can be found in this Witness Protection Act . The
legislature broadly distinguished three different categories of
anonymous witnesses. The first category comprises of witnesses with respect to whom
there is well founded assumption that they will incur problems in
connection with their testimony or that they will be hindered in the
further exercise of their profession. These are mainly police officers
who have met the accused while working undercover. These
witnesses are granted limited anonymity and are heard either by the
examining Magistrate or by the trial court. In these cases, the Judge
does not disclose the witness's identity and, takes measures to
prevent his identity from being disclosed. These measures do not
prevent direct questioning of the witness on appearance at the trial. The second category of anonymous witnesses are those who fear
for their lives, health or safety, or the disruption of their family life or
socio economic existence. In such cases, the Examining Magistrate
may grant him complete anonymity. The Examining Magistrate takes
the witness statement in such a way that the identity of the witness
is concealed. The defendant, his counsel or both may be denied
access to the hearing. It is also stipulated that the Public Prosecutor
may also not be present when the defence is denied access.
However, the Examining Magistrate gives the absent defendant, his
counsel and public prosecutor the opportunity to present questions
they wish to ask by telecommunication or alternatively in writing.
The examination is conducted by the Examining Magistrate in the
privacy of his office. The witness does not have to appear during the
investigation at the trial and his statement taken by the Examining
Magistrate can be used in evidence. The third category of anonymous witnesses is of those persons
whose names appear in police reports, and who are examined
without listing their identity. There are three cumulative requirements for the use of
statements in evidence in the case of completely anonymous
witnesses. First, the witness must be recognised by the Examining
Magistrate as a threatened witness. Second, the case must involve a
serious crime for which detention or remand is permitted. Third, the 496 judge cannot decide that the defendant as guilty solely on the basis
 of the statements of completely anonymous witnesses. It is the Examining Magistrate who determines whether or not a
 witness will be granted complete anonymity. A court order to
 conceal the identity of the witness during the examination may be
 elicited by the public prosecutor, the defence, or by the witness
 himself. The Examining Magistrate may also give such an order ex
 officio. The trial judge may order the Examining Magistrate to
 conduct an enquiry into the need for anonymity. But before taking
 any decision with respect to granting anonymity to witness, an
 opportunity of hearing is given to the defendant, his counsel and the
 witness. A decision of granting complete anonymity to the witness
 concerned can be appealed against. A panel of three judges sitting
 in chambers, decide an appeal. In order to safeguard the anonymity of the witness, in practice he
 is usually separated and sometimes also acoustically, from the
 defence and the public prosecutor. Examination of the witness may
 take place at a secret location and at a time that is kept secret from
 the defence until the last minute. During the examination, the
 Examining Magistrate, the witness and the court clerk, are separated
 from the defence and the public prosecutor. Communication takes
 place by an audio link, whereby a voice destruction device is
 generally used. 7.13 Germany and Italy: These countries have witness protection
programmes. They also use certain procedures in order to prevent witnesses
from being endangered. It is possible, in these countries, to use statement of
anonymous witnesses as evidence in the Court, although convictions may
not be based on anonymous testimony alone. The witness does not have to
state his name/address though the Judge is informed. In Germany,
anonymous witnesses are not accepted in cases of offences that cause
damage to individuals, but is accepted only in cases of serious organized
crime. The fact that independent witnesses as well co-accused are willing to
cooperate in providing evidence against their comrades makes witness
programme a must. MOU: Witness protection services in the above two countries also make

use of MOUs. It is not a formal contract, which refers to the witness's

conduct. To maintain complete secrecy, the person is not given a copy of

the MOU. The conditions for admission to the programme are that the person is
involved, as victim or witness, in a case of serious crime, there is danger to
the person or family or to close relatives, and the individual voluntarily
enters the programme and is suited to participate in the programme. In an urgent case, protection measures can be taken in those countries
by providing the individual or his relatives a secret place located in another
part of the country - say a hotel or a police office or tenement or other
public building. If the person is himself a suspect in several crimes, he is
placed in a prison. It is stressful for the candidate and his family to seek to
enter a programme. In some countries the protection extends during trial,
may go upon 2 years to 5 years. Change in identity is also involved.
Witness protection is expensive because of salaries of staff, removal of
persons to another location, economic subsistence, housing and medical
costs. In the above two countries, the programmes have been very effective.
They have resulted in conviction of numerous leaders and also members of
organized crime. CHAPTER VIII

 QUESTIONNAIRE

 The preceding chapters in this Consultation Paper have dealt with the
various aspects of witness anonymity and witness protection. They noted
that witness anonymity is necessitated by several factors - intimidation and
threat to the personal safety of the witnesses or the peculiar vulnerability of
the witness on account of age or other disadvantage. The responses of the
courts and the legislatures in our country and several other countries have
been discussed. While our courts have recognized the need for and granted
witness anonymity on a case by case basis, and that too to a limited extent,
they have reiterated the need for a comprehensive legislation covering all
aspects of witness anonymity. Apart from witness anonymity, our Courts
have stated that there is a need for devising witness protection programmes
on the lines of similar programmes in other countries. Such programmes are
essential in order to bring into being a statutory right to a witness, who is in
danger, to seek protection - either physically or through other measures,
apart from being granted anonymity. With a view to initiating public discussion on what should be the
legislative scheme on witness anonymity and the structure of the witness
protection programmes, the Law Commission elicits responses to the
following questionnaire which is divided into two parts: Part A deals with
witness anonymity and Part B with witness protection programmes. After
receiving responses to various questions, the Commission will come
forward with its final report. The Appendix carries the statutes in New
Zealand and Portugal, which contain significant provisions. (A) WITNESS ANONYMITY 500 8(1) Should witness anonymity be maintained in all the three stages of
 investigation, inquiry, trial and even at stage of appeal in a criminal
 case? (2) Do you think witness anonymity should be confined to criminal cases
 or should anonymity be provided in civil cases as well? Should it be
 extended to defence witnesses also, as done under some statutes in
 other countries? (3) Can the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 16 of the Terrorist
 and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 or section 30 of the
 Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002, which permit the Court to pass an
 order: Will it preclude fair and effective cross-examination, if the accused or
 his counsel is thus confined to a set list of questions and without the
 normal advantage of putting questions arising out of the answers of
 the witness to particular questions? (17) Merely because the Court has refused to grant anonymity at
 preliminary hearing referred to above, is the witness to be precluded
 subsequently from seeking anonymity or protection at the trial, even
 if there are fresh circumstances warranting an order in his favour?
(18) Can the defence be allowed to contend that the prosecution witness
 who is given anonymity is a stock witness? (19) Should the tele-link and display on video be conducted only by a
 technical officer of the judicial branch and not by a police officer or
 other public servant and not by outsourcing to a private contractor?
(20) Should these technical staff be located at one place in each State and
 move to the concerned Court whenever there is a request, as it is not 504 possible to provide such facilities for each Court or group of Courts
 in the districts? (21) Should the order as to witness anonymity, for the purpose of
 preliminary inquiry, be passed only by the Sessions Court and not by
 any other Court subordinate thereto? (22) Against the order granting anonymity to a witness, should the law
 provide a right of appeal to the High Court fixing a time frame of one
 month from the date of service, for disposal of the appeal?
(23) Are there any other suggestions not covered by the above? (B) WITNESS PROTECTION PROGRAMME

(1) Do you support the view that a Witness Protection Programme should
 be established to protect the safety, welfare and the interests of the
 witnesses? Such Programmes are already in existence in various
 countries like Australia, Canada, South Africa, Portugal, Netherlands,
 Philippines, New Zealand. (2) Apart from the change of identity, should other measures for the
 protection of witnesses be also provided. For example, (a) mention in the proceeding of an address different from the one
 he uses or which does not coincide with the domicile location
 provided by the civil law; (b) being granted a transportation in a State vehicle for purposes
 of intervention in the procedural act; (c) being granted a room, eventually put under surveillance and
 security located in the court or the police premises; (d) benefiting from police protection extended to his relatives or
 other persons in close contact with him; (e) benefiting from inmate regimen which allow him to remain
 isolated from others and to be transported in a separate vehicle; (f) delivery of documents officially issued; (g) changes in the physiognomy or the body of the beneficiary; (h) granting of a new place to live in the country or abroad, for a
 period to be determined; (i) free transportation of the beneficiary, his close relatives and the
 respective property, to the new place of living; (j) implementation of conditions for the obtaining of means of
 maintenance; (k) granting of a survival allowance for a specific period of time.
(3) Who among the following should be made in-charge of the
 implementation of the entire Witness Protection Programme: (4) Should apart from prosecution witness, a defence witness be also
 eligible to be admitted into the Witness Protection Programme, if
 danger to his life or property exists due to his being a witness?
(5) Should the Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police be
 empowered to certify whether a particular person or victim or witness
 is in danger and entitled to be admitted to the Witness Protection
 Programme? Should such certificate be further reviewed by the trial
 Judge before making an order of witness protection? Should such
 proceedings in the court be held in camera? (6) Whether protection under the Programme should also be extended to
 the family members, close relatives and friends of the threatened
 witness. If so, who should be included in the list of such persons?
(7) Should necessary funds be provided by both the Central and State
 Governments for implementation of the Witness Protection
 Programme? (8) Should a witness who is being admitted into the Programme be
 required to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the in-
 charge of the Programme setting out his rights, obligations, 506 restrictions as well as of the person in-charge of the Programme?
 What are the means of enforcing such rights and obligations?
(9) When the identity of a person is changed, and he later becomes a
 party as plaintiff or defendant or a witness in any other civil
 proceedings, then should such proceeding be allowed to be suspected
 temporarily and be subject to the order of the Court regarding
 institution, trial or judgment in such proceedings?
(10) When the identity of a person is changed, and he is an accused or a
 witness in any other criminal proceeding under his former identity,
 should the person in-charge of Protection Programme be authorized
 to disclose his identity to the prosecutor, judge of magistrate and or to
 defence lawyer in such cases? (11) Should a person be held liable to punishment if he discloses the
 identity of any protected person without the authorization of the
 Court that granted the protection? If so, what punishment should be
 prescribed? (12) Do you support the view that where a witness who is admitted to the
 Programme fails or refuses to testify without any just cause, he should
 be prosecuted for contempt of Court and the protection order be
 cancelled? (13) Should the decision either admitting or refusing to admit a person to
 the Witness Protection Programme, be made appealable? To avoid
 delays, should such appeal lie directly to the High Court?
(14) Do you have any other suggestions in respect of Witness Protection
 Programme?