1. The accused was charged, while functioning as a public

servant, in the capacity of Sub-Inspector, Delhi Police, posted

at Police Station: Jahangir Puri, on 12.07.1995 at about 7:00

pm at PS, Jahangir Puri, Delhi, for demanding and accepting an Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 1 of 51 illegal gratification of `5,000/- from the complainant Ashok

Kumar as a motive or reward for showing him official favour in

the matter of a complaint of bank fraud submitted by one

Samey Singh and thereby committed an offence punishable

under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act (hereinafter

referred to as " P.C. Act " for short). Second charge against the

accused is that as a public servant while working in the

aforesaid capacity at the aforesaid time and place by corrupt

or illegal means and by abusing his official position obtained

for himself a pecuniary advantage of `5,000/- without any

public interest, thereby, committed an offence punishable

under Section 13(2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of P.C. Act. 2. The accused pleaded not guilty and tried by the Special

Judge, Delhi. Vide judgment dated 11th December 2002, the

accused was convicted and vide order dated 16.12.2002 for

offence punishable under Section 7 of the P.C. Act, 1988, the

accused was sentenced to undergo Simple Imprisonment (SI)

for a period of 2 years and a fine of `2,000/- and in default of

payment of fine to undergo SI for a further period of two Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 2 of 51 months. For the offence punishable under Section 13(2) read

with Section 13(1)(d) of P.C. Act, 1988, the accused was

sentenced to undergo SI for a period of 3 years with a fine of

`3,000/- and in default of payment of fine, he shall have to

undergo SI for 3 months. Both the substantive sentences were

directed to run concurrently and period of detention already

undergone during the investigation/trial of the case was set of. 3. The facts of the case in brief are that the accused had

demanded a bribe of `10,000/- from Shri Ashok Kumar,

complainant PW-1. On the complaint of aforesaid PW-1, a trap

party was constituted by Shri S.K. Peshin PW-9, DSP of CBI

consisting of Shri A.G.L. Kaul and Ved Prakash, Inspectors

(Both witnesses not examined). Two eye witnesses, namely,

Swaminath PW-3 from the Ministry of Health, Man Mohan

Kumar PW-8 from the DGS & D and other staff of CBI(Anti

Corruption Branch). After completing the requisite pre-trap

formalities, the trap party left the CBI office at about 3:10 pm

and reached the police station Jahangir Puri at about 4:50 pm. Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 3 of 51 Accordnigly, the members of the trap party took up suitable

position. 4. The Complainant PW-1, shadow witnesses PW-3 and

public witness PW-8 went inside the police station. Since the

accused was not present, they came out. Again, as directed by

the TLO (Trap Laying Officer) went inside at about 6:00 pm.

The appellant was found busy and told the complainant PW-1

to meet him at 7:00 pm. Accordingly, they met him again and

handed over `5000/- to appellant. On receipt of pre-appointed

signal from the shadow witness at 7.55 pm, the trap rushed in

and accused was apprehended by his left wrist by Sh. Ved

Prakash, Inspector. The appellant while trying to free himself,

came out of the room and reached the passage outside. He

took out some currency notes from the right hand side pocket

of his pant and threw the same on the asbestos sheets

adjoining the passage. The Government currency notes were

photographed while they were lying on the Asbestos Sheets.

The currency notes were found tallied with the numbers of the Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 4 of 51 notes recorded in the annexure of the handing over memo

prepared in the CBI office. 5. Inspector Ram Sewak PW-7, SHO of P.S. Jahangir Puri and

A.C.P. were called. In their presence hand wash of the right

hand of the accused was taken in a colourless solution of

sodium carbonate which turned pink in colour and similarly,

the wash of the inner-linings of the right pocket of the pant

worn by appellant was taken which also gave positive result in

the colourless solution of sodium carbonate. Both the pink

solutions obtained were transferred to separate glass bottles

which were duly sealed with CBI seal wrapped and got signed

by the independent witnesses. 6. Thereafter the table drawer of accused was searched.

Original complaint of Sh. Samey Singh PW-5, which was under 7. During investigation, it was found that the appellant was

verifying the complaint given by Sh.Samey Singh PW-5 and in Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 5 of 51 connection with that complaint, the appellant had been calling

the complainant Ashok Kumar, PW-1 to the police station

repeatedly. 8. The prosecution examined 10 witnesses in all. Ashok

Kumar PW-1 had deposed on 02.03.1998 that on 28.06.1995,

accused Brij Pal Singh, SI called him to police station Jahangir

Puri. He told him that by practicing fraud upon the bank a sum

of `36,000/- had been withdrawn from the account of one

Samey Singh PW-5. He was also told that in the aforesaid

transaction of withdrawal of money, his (PW-1) bank account

number as witness was written. The complainant told the

accused that he had not given any witness for the bank

account and the aforesaid withdrawal. The accused also

threatened him that he would implicate him in the case if he

failed to pay him `10,000/- as bribe. 9. Thereafter, the accused called him to the police station in

that connection several times. On 12.07.1995 the accused

further told him to pay first installment of `5,000/- on the same

day at the police station. He (PW-1) came back to his Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 6 of 51 residence. He wrote a complaint and went to CBI office and

met S.P., Anti Corruption. 10. At about 1:30 pm, two public witnesses, namely Somi

Nath (Swami Nath) PW-3 and Man Mohan Kumar PW-8 arrived

in the room of PW-9 S.K.Peshin, DSP. The complainant

produced `5,000/- comprising 50 GC notes of `100/-

denomination each and gave to Shri S.K.Peshin PW-9. He

noted down several numbers of those currency notes on paper

Ex.PW-1/B. One chemical powder was applied to those GC

notes. Thereafter, demonstration of chemical reaction of

aforesaid powder was given by making one witness to touch

the treated notes and dip his fingers in the plain water, but the

colour of water did not change. Thereafter, one other

chemical powder was dissolved in a clean glass of water to

prepare a colourless solution. Same witness was directed to

touch the treated notes with other hand and dipped his fingers

in the said colourless solution. On this solution fingers turned

pink. Aforesaid demonstration solution was thrown away. His

search was conducted and he was not permitted to carry Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 7 of 51 money. Thereafter, the aforesaid treated currency notes of

`5,000/- were kept in the left pocket of his shirt, and was

directed to give tainted money to the accused only on the

event of specific demand. PW-3 Somi (Swami Nath) was

directed to act as a shadow witness and watch the

proceedings as well as hear the conversation between him and

the accused. He was further directed to scratch his head in

the event of acceptance of money by the accused. All the

other members of the raiding party were searched by each

other and no body was permitted to keep money on his

person. One yellow bag was taken which contained empty

bottle and chemical powder for making solution, sealing

material, glass tumbler and CBI seal etc. All members of

raiding party washed their hands before leaving for the raid.

Pre-raid proceedings were prepared vide memo Ex. PW-1/C. 11. PW-1 further deposed that on seeing the accused in his

room along with 3-4 persons sitting in the said room, the

accused told PW-1 that he will talk with him after some time.

Thereafter, they came downstairs and waited till 7:00 pm. Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 8 of 51 Again, he along with Somi (Swami) PW-3 went to the room of

accused at first floor at 7 pm. The conversation with the

accused was as under: 12. Thereafter, he took out `5000/- tainted money and gave

to the accused Brij Pal Singh. He accepted the money in his

right hand and kept the same in the right side pocket of his

pant. Thereafter, complainant asked "MERE SAATH KOI AISI

BAAT TO NAHI HOGI", and accused told him that he would

close the file and nobody would harass him. Then, accused

asked him "DOOSRI KISHT KAB DEGA", and complainant

replied, "KAL DE DENGE". Thereafter, accused Brij Pal Singh

came out of the room. Meanwhile, PW-3 Somi (Swami) Nath

gave signal by scratching his head and members of raiding

party reached at the spot. Two CBI officials Mr.Kaul and Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 9 of 51 Mr.Javed caught hold of the accused from his respective wrists.

Accused started shouting. CBI officials, thereafter, gave the

introduction to the accused. He managed to get free from his

right hand. He took out tainted money from the right pocket

of the pant and threw it on the asbestos sheet of the roof of

the room of the reader of SHO. ACP and SHO of the police

station were summoned at the spot and were asked to join

further proceedings. Somi Nath PW-3 detailed the transaction

as well as the conversation took place between him and the

accused. Photographer was summoned, who took photographs

of the Govt.Currency notes lying on the roof. Manmohan PW-8

picked up GC notes from the roof of the room of the reader

and his photographs were taken while he was picking the GC

notes. Numbers of those GC notes were also compared by

PW-8, with the numbers already noted down on the list Ex.PW-

1/B and he confirmed that GC notes were same. 13. Thereafter, a glass of water was brought and accused Brij

Pal Singh was made to dip his right hand fingers in aforesaid

plain water, on this water turned pink. Aforesaid right hand Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 10 of 51 wash was transferred into a clean empty bottle, its mouth was

covered with a piece of cloth. It was sealed with the seal of CBI

and identification lable was prepared and pasted on the bottle.

Bottle was marked as „RHW‟. The accused was made to

remove his pant. Fresh water in a clean glass of water was

fetched and inner lining of the pocket of the pant of the

accused was dipped, on this water turned pink. Thereafter,

pocket wash was transferred into a clean and empty bottle, its

mouth was closed and covered with a piece of cloth. The bottle

was sealed with the seal of CBI and identification lable was

prepared and pasted on the bottle. Recovered currency notes,

bottles of washes and the pant of the accused etc., were

seized vide recovery memo Ex.PW-1/D. 14. Thereafter, room of the accused was searched from

where his (PW-1) „Bank Pass Book‟ and „Driving Licence‟ were

recovered. 15. The cross-examination of the complainant was deferred

at the request of the accused, as his counsel was not available

on that day. However, this could take place only on Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 11 of 51 24.07.1998 when PW-1 made a summersault and proved a

complete turn-coat to the prosecution. He deposed in cross-

examination as under:- 16. Considering the conduct of complainant in making two
entirely contradictory statements, the public prosecutor CBI
then cross-examined him, but failed to bring him around to his
case. While in his re-cross-examination by defence counsel, he
reiterated what he had stated on 24.07.1998, adding further
that a trap was laid on 10.07.1995 and he changed the Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 16 of 51 date to 12.07.1995 at the behest of Sh.S.K.Peshin PW-9,
who was T.L.O. of this case. 17. Interestingly, not only the complainant PW-1 has turned

hostile, both the two public witnesses joined in the raiding

party, namely, Swami Nath. PW-3 and Manmohan PW-8, who

acted according to the prosecution as a shadow witness and

recovery witnesses respectively. Both public witnesses PW-3

and PW-8 completely had turned hostile and did not support

prosecution case. Public prosecutor cross-examined them at

length and confronted with them the statements purported to

had been recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., however, he

could not elicit anything favourable to the prosecution from

them. Their testimonies did not land any corroboration to the

complainant PW-1, who as discussed above, earlier deposed in

favour of the prosecution but later on retracted from his

deposition in chief examination recorded on oath on

02.03.1998. 18. The trial Judge has relied upon the testimony of

S.K.Peshin DSP, PW-9 TLO of the case and circumstantial

evidence of K.S.Chhabra, Sr. Scientific Officer PW-4, Sh.Samey Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 17 of 51 Singh PW-5, P.D.Vasandhani PW-6, and Inspector Ram Sewek

PW-7. 19. To this effect it is relevant to discuss all the aforesaid

witnesses in brief how they had put light in the case while

deposing in the Court. 20. PW-4 Sh.K.S.Chhabra, Sr.Scientific Officer Grade-I cum

Assistant Chemical Examiner, Govt. of India CFSL Delhi

deposed that on 18.07.1995, two sealed bottles were received

in the laboratory; their seals were intact and tallied with official

specimen enclosed; both bottles contained pink colour liquid

with sediments and were marked as "RHW" and "RPPW",

which gave positive tests for phenolphthalein and sodium

carbonate. He proved his report as Ex.PW-4/A. This witness

had not been cross-examined. 21. PW-5, Samey Singh, was having a bank account with

State Bank of India, at Jahangirpuri Branch, in the year 1995.

Regarding embezzlement of `36,000/- from his account, he

lodged a complaint Ex.PW-5/A on 29.06.1995 at police station

Jahangirpuri. This witness was also not cross-examined. Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 18 of 51 22. PW-6 P.D.Vasandhani, was the Deputy Manager in State

Bank of India, Jahangirpuri Branch, during the year 1995. He

had deposed that account No.8477 in the name of one

Sh.Samey Singh, was maintained in the branch during his

tenure. Duplicate pass book was issued on 27.06.1995.

Further, he deposed that on 24.06.1995, there was a deposit of

`20,000/- as per the ledger Ex.PW-6/A and on 27.06.1995 a

sum of `36,300/- was shown as withdrawn from that account.

This witness was cross-examined, however, nothing material

came out to discredit his evidence. 23. PW-7 Inspector Ram Sewek, he was posted as SHO at

police station Jahangir Puri in June/July, 1995 and the accused

was working under him as Sub-Inspector. He had confirmed

that complaint Ex.PW-5/A was made by Sh.Samey Singh PW-5,

which was marked by his reader to the accused on his behalf. 24. On perusal of the above discussed evidence of PW-5, PW-

6 and PW-7, it is clearly established that on the day of trap, i.e.

12.07.1995, appellant was investigating a complaint of PW-5 of

embezzlement in his account. Thus, the appellant had motive Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 19 of 51 to ask for bribe for favouring the complainant PW-1. Further,

testimony of PW-7, lands more credence to the case of

prosecution regarding recovery of the tainted money as under:- 25. PW-9 S.K.Peshin, DSP, CBI had laid trap on 12.07.1995,

thereafter who investigated the case of R.C.No.56/1995 Ex.PW-

9/A. He deposed that this case was registered against the

accused on the complaint of Ashok Kumar PW-1 alleging

demand of bribe by Sh.Brij Pal Singh, Sub-Inspector posted at Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 20 of 51 P.S. Jahangir Puri. Complainant PW-1 was called by him to his

room, interrogated him regarding the allegation made by him.

He was satisfied about the genuineness of the allegations. A

trap party was constituted, arranged two independent

witnesses i.e. Sh.Swami Nath PW-3 from Ministry of Health and

Sh.Manmohan Kumar Pw-8 from DGS&D and by about 3 PM all

the members of the raiding party, including witnesses and

complainant were present in his room. 26. Further, he had deposed that complaint of Ashok Kumar

PW-1 was shown to both the witness (Pw-3 and PW-8) and they

also questioned the complainant regarding the allegations to

satisfy themselves. The complainant produced a sum of

`5000/- consisting of 50 GC notes of `100 denomination,

whose, numbers were noted down in the annexure Ex.PW-1/B.

Ensuring that these numbers had been correctly recorded.

Thereafter, a practical demonstration was given after treating

the GC notes with phenolphthalein powder, directing

Sh.S.R.Singh, Inspector,(not examined) to explain the reaction

that takes place between said phenolphthalein powder and Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 21 of 51 colourless solution of sodium carbonate. For that purpose

witness Manmohan Kumar PW-8 was asked to touch these

powder treated notes with his right hand finger and to wash in

a colourless solution of sodium carbonate. On doing so by him

the said colorless solution turned pink. It was thrown away

after explaining the significance of the reaction. Personal

search of the complainant was taken and he was not allowed to

carry anything. The tainted amount of `5000/- was kept in his

shirt‟s pocket and was directed to hand over the bribe amount

to the accused on his specific demand of bribe. Swami Nath

PW-3 was asked to accompany the complainant and remained

with him so as to see the transaction and hear the conversation

and also to give signal by scratching hair on his head with both

hands. The left over phenolphthalein powder had been

returned to malkhana. All other formalities were also

conducted during these pre-trapped proceedings which were

mentioned in handing over memo Ex.PW-1/C. 27. Thereafter, they all left CBI office for police station

Jahangir Puri. They reached near the police station premises at Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 22 of 51 about 5:30 PM. Complainant PW-1 and shadow witness PW-3

were directed by him to go inside the police station to contact

the accused. However, both of them came out and informed

that accused was expected shortly on which he (PW-9) directed

them (PW-1 and PW-3) to wait for the accused. The other

members took suitable position around the police station

premises which was housed in DDA Flats. At about 6 PM the

complainant PW-1 and shadow witness PW-3 went inside the

police station and came after meeting the accused who had

told them to come around 7 PM. 28. It was observed that there was a rush of people who had

come from adjoining areas to the police station and the

accused was trying to remove the crowd from the premises of

the police station. The trap team then mingled amongst the

crowd. At about 7 PM when the crowd thinned and most of

people had left. Complainant PW-1 and shadow witness PW-3

again went to the room of accused at the first floor. They were

seen coming out of the room, to wait near the passage leading

to the room on the first floor. After some time they both Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 23 of 51 entered the room again, while some people already sitting had

left the room. At about 7:50 PM the pre-appointed signal was

received from Sh.Swami Nath PW-3, the shadow witness. On

signal, he along with other staff rushed to first floor. Entered in

the room, Inspector Ved Prakash caught hold of accused Brij Pal

Singh by the wrist of his left hand. Accused tried to loosen the

grip on his left hand wrist and somehow he succeeded and

inserted his right hand in the right side pocket of his pant and

took away the bribe amount and started throwing towards

passage. The accused threw the notes which fell on the

asbestos roof of the room situated in the ground floor of rider

to the SHO. Then, Inspector Sh.A.G.L.Kaul caught hold of

accused by his right hand wrist. After disclosing his identity

(PW-9), challenged Sh. Brij Pal Singh as to whether he had

demanded and accepted the bribe. 29. PW-9 S.K.Peshin confirmed from shadow witness PW-3

Swami Nath that bribe was demanded and accepted by the

accused. PW-9 aranged at spot presence of SHO and ACP who

also had come to the first floor. They were apprised about the Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 24 of 51 happening in the first floor. The ACP left after directing the

SHO to cooperate with CBI. PW-9 further deposed that in the

meantime he also arranged for the presence of the

photographer from the market. The independent witness PW-8

was asked to pick up the notes from the asbestos roof with the

help of the shadow witness. Their photographs in process of

picking-up notes were also taken. He identified Sh.Swami Nath

PW-3 and Manmohan Kumar PW-8 in photograph Ex.PW-9/B.

This witness also identified Sh.Manmohan Kumar PW-8 in

Ex.PW-9/C and PW-9/C and deposed that they were visible as

collecting the currency notes from the asbestos roof and that

those photographs were taken by one person sent by J.K.

studio. Three other photographs which were Ex.PW-9/E-1 to Ex.

PW-9/E3 also show the scattered currency notes on the

asbestos roof. Those photographs were also taken by under his

direction by J.K.Studio and also bear the stamp of J.K.Studio

along with signatures at point „A‟ on the reverse of the photos. 30. Further, he deposed that after collecting the notes both

the witnesses PW-3 and PW-8 compared the same annexure Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 25 of 51 prepared in CBI office earlier and confirmed that the numbers

on these recovered notes collected from asbestos roof, were

same. Colourless solution of sodium carbonate was prepared

and accsused was asked to wash his right hand finger in it. The

solution turned pink in colour and was transferred into a neat

and clean glass bottle which was sealed with the seal of CBI.

The accused was asked to remove his pant and inner lining of

right side pocket, the same was dipped in a freshly prepared

colourless solution of sodium carbonate which also turned into

pink colour and was transferred into another glass bottle,

thereafter, was also sealed with CBI seal. Those bottles were

marked as "RHW" and RPPW". The site plan Ex. PW-3/B was

also prepared, search of the drawer of the table of accused was

conducted and documents consisting of bank accounts were

seized vide Ex.PW-3/D. The recovery memo pertains to post-

raid proceedings Ex.PW-1/D was prepared at the spot. 31. It is amply clear that the prosecution had to rely mainly

upon the testimony of the complainant PW-1 as made by him in

his examination-in-chief on 02.03.1998, the testimony of S.K. Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 26 of 51 Peshin, DSP (TLO) PW-9 and other material witnesses i.e. PW-4

Sh. K.S. Chhabra, who gave positive reports Ex. PW-4/A of Tests

for phenolphthalein and sodium carbonate, PW-5 Samey Singh

whose complaint was under inquiry with the appellant, PW-6

P.D. Vasandhani, Deputy Manager, S.B.I. who proved ledger Ex.

PW-6/A and PW-7 Inspector Ram Sewak, SHO, P.S. Jahangirpuri

who confirmed the complaint Ex. PW-5/A made by Samey

Singh. 32. The learned defence counsel Sh.Pradeep Kumar Arya has

argued that the PW-2 Karnal Singh DCP had not applied his

mind while granting sanction for the prosecution under Section

19 of P.C. Act. PW-2 had accorded sanction Ex. PW-2/A

verbatim of charge sheet. The sanctioning authority was duty

bound to apply independent mind which he failed to do. 33. The learned counsel Sh. A.K. Gautam has argued that

Karnal Singh PW-2 had deposed that he was posted as DCP

(North-west district), Delhi and in that capacity he was

appointing-cum-disciplinary authority in relation to the Sub-

Inspectors of police and could remove them from the service. Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 27 of 51 On 23.08.1995, he accorded sanction for prosecution of

accused Brij Pal Singh, the then Sub-Inspector of police vide his

detailed order Ex.PW-2/A. Further, he had deposed that he

perused the SPs (CBI) report as well as the investigation record

including statement of witnesses produced by the investigating

officer of the case. 34. He further argued that the object for providing prior

sanction under the Act is to safeguard a public servant against

vicious and malicious prosecution to obtain well considered

opinion of the superior authority. No doubt, on the one hand,

this provision is intended to safeguard the public servant from

any harassment of any fictitious proceedings, and to protect

the interest of the State, on the other hand. When the moral of

public services or when the integrity of one of his member is

questioned, sanction provides for impartial scrutiny of the

allegations by a competent authority, to satisfy itself that there

is prima facie case against the person charged with an offence

under the Act. He argued that PW-2 had rightly sanctioned the

prosecution after going through the entire record. He was of Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 28 of 51 the opinion that the prima facie case is made against the

accused. 35. Learned counsel for the appellant argued that the

contents of sanction are verbatim to the contents of charge-

sheet filed by the CBI against the appellant. 36. The learned counsel for the respondents (CBI) has relied

upon the judgment of M.S.Kuppuswami & Etc. Vs.State

1990 INDLAW MAD 83 in para 21, wherein, observed that

petitioner certainly has no opportunity during trial to

disapprove the allegations made by the prosecution. The

sanction to prosecute does contain repetition of the acts, found

in the charge-sheet. Merely because the narration of the facts

has been borrowed from the charge-sheet, it cannot

automatically be concluded that there was non-application of

mind before sanction was accorded. It would certainly be

better if, after going through the facts, the Sanctioning

Authority himself, on his understanding of the case gives a

resume of facts in the order of sanction, without adopting to

follow the very phraseology used by the investigating agency. Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 29 of 51 A mere reproduction of words, as far as the facts of the case

are concerned, cannot in all cases indicate lacks upon mind.

Sanction is not an empty formality but intended to be a

protection to a public servant when prosecuted for an offence

which challenges his honesty and integrity. However, in the

instant case on the perusal of order of sanction, it is prima facie

apparent that the Sanctioning Authority had carefully examined

the investigation report, other document, i.e. allegation and

statements of witness before allowing the prosecution to be

instituted. 37. The Courts have to see that the mind of sanctioning

authority should not be under pressure from any quarter nor

should any external force be acted upon it to take a decision

one way or the other. Since, the discretion to grant or not to

grant a sanction vests absolutely in the sanctioning authority,

its discretion should be shown to have not been affecting by

any extraneous authority. 38. If the sanction granting authority failed to apply its mind

to ascertain correct amount of illegal gratification to decide Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 30 of 51 question of sanction is material fact and is not mere error or

irregularity but serious omission on its part tantamount to

illegality affecting the validity of the order which cannot be

cured by the aid of Section 465 of the Cr.P.C. In the case of Tirath Prakash Vs. State 1992 (2001) DLT 613 as was held

that if competent authority had granted the sanction

mechanically without application of mind, the sanction order

would be rendered vide ab initio and the cognizance taken by

the special Judge and subsequent trial in the case would be

illegal. 39. The learned counsel for the appellant has relied upon the

case of R.S.Nayak Vs. A.R. Antulay 1984 2 SCC 183 while

dealing with this case the Supreme Court has referred a case of

Mohd. Iqbal Ahmad Vs.State of Andhra Pradesh AIR 1979

SC 677 wherein it was held that a grant of sanction is not an

ideal formality but a solemn sacrosanct act which removes the

umbrella of protection of government servant against the

frivolous prosecution and the aforesaid requirements must, Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 31 of 51 therefore, be directly complied with before any prosecution

could be lodged against public servants. 40. This judgment is not relevant in the present situation,

herein the sanctioning authority Mr.Karnal Singh PW-2 Deputy

Commissioner had gone through the facts and material placed

before him in regard to the said allegations, and having applied

his mind to the facts and circumstances of the case, he was

fully satisfied that prima facie a case under Section 7 and Section 13 (2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the P.C. Act was

made out against the accused, Sub-Inspector of Delhi Police. 41. In another case referred as Periyasamy Vs. Inspector,

Vigilance & anti-Corruption Department 1994 Crl. L.J. 753

(Madras High Court) where in para 14 it was observed as

under:- 42. On perusal of the para above, the facts of the instant

case are totally different. In the present case, the Sanctioning

Authority has gone through the entire records produced

before him, and after complete application of mind he

accorded the Sanction, therefore, above cited case has no

bearing in the circumstances of the present case. 43. In my view as the law discussed above, I find no force in

the arguments advance on behalf of the appellant against

order of sanction. Additionally, I note that the appellant has

not even challenged the validity of sanction in his statement

under Section 313 Cr.P.C. and no suggestion was put to PW-2

while his cross-examination. Even, the appellant had not raised

any issue on the first available opportunity i.e. at the time of

framing of charge as per the requirement of Section 19 of P.C.

Act. Therefore, there is no infirmity or irregularity in issuing the

sanction order Ex.PW-2/A. 44. On merit the learned counsel for the appellant submits

that filling of complaint with CBI by the complainant can not be Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 33 of 51 taken as a substitute for the evidence of proof of allegations.

The prosecution was required to prove the allegation by

convincing evidence, which is lacking in the instant case. The

learned counsel for appellant has relied upon the case of Roshan Lal Saini Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation 2011(1) JCC 102 in para 12 observed as under:- 45. But, the facts of the case authority Roshan Lal (Supra)

are totally also different from the present one. In the present

case the case has been fully proved from the statement of PW-

1, PW-6, PW-7 and PW-9. Therefore, the case cited by the

learned counsel has no relevance. 46. In the case, as referred by the learned counsel for

appellant, of Sunil Kumar Mishra Vs.State (CBI), 2007 Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 34 of 51 (139) DLT 407, (Delhi High Court), relied on para 12 of this

case wherein it was observed as under:- 47. Whereas, in the instant case there is a demand made by

the appellant while dealing with the complaint of PW-5 and

further demand in conversation at the time of conducting the

raid. The appellant in the instant case has accepted the

money which was proved by PW-7 and PW9 and examination-

in-chief of PW-1. Therefore, the case of Sunil Kumar Mishra

(supra) does not apply in the instant case. Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 35 of 51 48. In the case of Prem Singh Yadav Vs. Central Bureau

of Investigation which was decided on 25.03.2011 in

Crl.A.No.206/2002 referred para 14, reads as under:- 49. Whereas in the present case the prosecution has

certainly proved recovery of money from the accused and fully

corroborated by the other substantive evidence of the demand

and acceptance, therefore, this judgment does not fit to the

circumstances of the instant case. 50. In the case referred as O.P.Chhabra Vs. State 2010(175)

DLT 374, he has referred in para as under:- 51. This Court had considered as to whether a person making

complaint regarding corruption can be considered as an accomplice or

not in State v. P.K.Jain and Anr. 2007 Crl.L.J4137 and observed as

under: 52. On merits, the learned counsel for appellant Mr.Pradeep

Kumar Arya has mainly relied upon PW-1, PW-3 and PW-8 as

they were declared hostile. The PW-1 complainant has

completely taken u-turn from what he had deposed in the

examination-in-chief, however, the learned counsel could not

find out any lacuna in the deposition of PW-1 in examination-in-

chief. Therefore, the trial Judge has not relied upon what he

had deposed in cross-examination. It is a settled law that if any

witness has taken complete u-turn from what he had deposed

in examination-in-chief, then the chief-examination part of the

witness cannot be thrown out. It is very pertinent to mention

here that the learned trial Judge was compelled to proceed

against the PW-1 under Section 344 Cr.P.C. separately on this

issue. 53. Here, I appreciate the application of mind of the trial

Judge, who had very rightly proceeded against complainant

PW-1 while issuing notice under Section 344 Cr.P.C., therefore,

the view taken by the trial Judge was correct, I find no infirmity

on this issue. Therefore, I also concur the same. Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 40 of 51 54. In the case of Khuji Vs. State of M.P. AIR 1991, SC

1853 wherein the Supreme Court had held that statement of

witness identifying all accused in examination-in-chief but

contradicted in cross-examination, is nothing but an attempt to

wriggle out of the first statement and that his evidence is

reliable with regard to the facts as made earlier in his

examination-in-chief. Observation made in para 7 squarely

apply to the facts of the present case which reads as under:- 55. The law is settled that even in a criminal prosecution, when

a witness is cross-examined and contradicted with the leave of the

court by the party calling, his evidence cannot, as a matter of law,

be treated as washed off the record altogether. It is for the Judge

of fact to consider in each case, whether as a result of such cross-

examination, the witness stands thoroughly discredited or can still

be believed in regard to a part of his testimony. If the Judge finds

that in the process, the credit of the witness has not been

completely shaken, he may, after reading and considering the

evidence of the witness, as a whole, with due caution and care,

accept, in the light of the other evidence on the record, that part of

his testimony which he finds to be credit-worthy and act upon it. 56. In Koli Lakhmanbhai Chanabhai Vs.State of Gujarat

JT 1999 (9) SC 133, in para 5 where it was observed as under:- The prosecution version gets further corroboration
 from discovery of Muddamal knife containing human
 blood Group „A‟. Further the bush-shirt and baniyan
 which were put on by the accused at the time of
 incident were having extensive blood stains which
 were also found containing human blood group „A‟.
 Learned counsel for the appellant, however,
 contended that accused is also having blood Group
 „A‟ and that he was having injury on the thigh as per
 the evidence of the Doctor. In our view, there is no
 substance in his contention because as per the
 medical evidence, the injuries caused to the accused
 were minor and that because of such injuries, there
 would not because of such injuries, there would not
 be extensive bloodstains on the bush-shirt and
 baniyan put on by the accused. In his 313 statement
 also, accused has not explained how he got
 bloodstains on his bus-shirt and baniyan. He has also
 not denied the recovery of the said bush-shirt and
 baniyan from his person at the time of his arrest." Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 43 of 51 57. It is settled law that the evidence of hostile witness also

can be relied upon to the extent to which it supports the

prosecution version. Evidence of such witness cannot be

treated as washed of a record. It remains admissible in the

trial and there is not legal bar to pass his conviction upon his

testimony if corroborated by other reliable evidence. 58. The learned counsel for the appellant has drawn the

attention of this Court to the complaint dated 12.07.1995

Ex.PW-1/A towards the cutting of the date at point B. I have

perused the complaint, and note that on the top the date is

12.07.1995. However, at the bottom, there are two dates, one

is 12.07.1995 another has been cut (not readable), but the

contents inside the complaint clearly reflect that „to close the

file of the case the Sub-Inspector Brij Pal Singh,

appellant had demanded `.12,000/- as bribe but at his

request he reduced to `10,000/- and the appellant

directed today 12.07.1995 to bring the money

accordingly he is going to give `5000/- as installment'.

Since the contents of the complaint inside of dated 12.07.1995, Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 44 of 51 there are chances that while writing date 12, the pen might

have slipped, otherwise, it was very easy to make from digit 10

to digit 12, even without any cutting. Therefore, I found no

force in this argument also. 59. The learned counsel for appellant has further pointed out

from the statement of PW-5 Samey Singh as he had deposed

that he made a complaint in PS Jahangir Puri on 29.06.1995, in

respect of an embezzlement of Rs.36,000/- from his account,

whereas, PW-1 had deposed in his examination-in-chief that on

28.06.1995 accused Brij Pal SI called him to police station

Jahangir Puri. He further argued that if the complainant PW-1

was called on 28.06.1995 then question does not arise the

appellant would demand a money in the complaint dated

29.06.1995 which came day after he was called at police

station. I feel this dated 28.06.1995 seems to be a

typographical error, otherwise, the learned counsel for the

appellant would have asked question on these two dates and

would have clarified this date from PW-5 Samey Singh. This

date had gone un-noticed, in my opinion this date written Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 45 of 51 wrongly has no relevance, when, other witnesses corroborated

the incident, otherwise. 60. In defence, the appellant stated under Section 313 Cr.P.C

against the question No.37 he replied as under:- "Q.37 Why this case against you? A. I have been falsely implicated in
 the instant case as the complainant was
 enemical to me and I have beaten at the
 instance of SHO, PS Jahangir Puri, once or
 twice." 61. This statement of the appellant itself proves that the

complainant PW-1 was harassed by the appellant and

demanded bribe to favour the complainant in the complaint

made by PW-5 Samey Singh. The complainant succumbed to

his demand and had agreed to pay the bribe money on

12.07.1995 itself. 62. If I accept the testimony of PW-1 as made by him on

02.03.1998, in chief, then, the entire prosecution case as was

deposed by the TLO, S.K.Peshin PW-9 finds full corroboration

from related circumstances, i.e., hand wash and pant pocket

wash of the appellant turning pink, solution whereof preserved Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 46 of 51 for CFSL analysis, giving positive test of phenolphthalein and

sodium carbonate, doubtlessly indicating the fact the accused

who was dealing the case of embezzlement against PW-1, the

appellant, did accept the tainted money, kept in his pant

pocket but later on becoming suspicious of the movement

taking place throwing the same by taking out of the pocket

which scattered at the asbestos sheet of the roof of the room of

PA to SHO PW-7, who has deposed to the effect that as

remained unshaken in the cross-examination. In this regard,

the settled law in the case of State of U.P. Vs. M.K.Anthony AIR 1985 SC 48, wherein it was held that despite

discrepancies in the statement made in the court by the

material witnesses if their testimonies fully inculpate the

accused, conviction can be based on such evidence. The

observations were made by the Apex Court as under:- Their Lordships further observed,

 "Unless there are reasons weighty and formidable it
 would not be proper to reject the evidence on the
 ground of minor variations or infirmities in the matter
 of trivial details. Even honest and truthful witness
 may differ in some details unrelated to the main
 incident because power of observation, retention, and
 reproduction differ with individuals. Cross-
 examination is an unequal dual between the rustic
 (witness) and refined lawyer." 63. In another case of Bharuda Broginbhai Harji Vs. State

of Gujarat AIR 1983 SC 753 that discrepancies which do not

go to the root of the matter and shake the basic version of the

prosecution should not be attached undue importance. The

reasons given in that judgment for arriving at this conclusion as

under:- 64. Putting the curtain down, admittedly the appellant was a

public servant at the time of the occurrence. There was a

demand since the appellant was dealing the complaint of PW-5 Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 49 of 51 Samey Singh and the accused suspecting complainant Ashok

Kumar PW-1 in that complaint. Again money was demanded at

the time of trap as admitted by PW-1 and the money was

accepted and thereafter recovered from the appellant. Since

the appellant was dealing with the complaint of PW-5 Samey

Singh and the complainant PW-1 was suspect, therefore, the

appellant demanded money from the complainant PW-1 to

favour him and to close the issue against him. This factor

establishes the motive for demanding the bribe from the

complainant. 65. Keeping the above evidence and discussion into view the

bribe was demanded by the appellant from PW-1, again bribe

was demanded and accepted at the time of trap. Bribe money

was recovered from the appellant. Hand wash and pant was

also proved. Motive for demanding bribe was proved beyond

doubt. 66. Therefore, I find no discrepancies in the order/judgment

passed by trial Judge, therefore, I confirm the same. The bail

bonds and surety bonds are cancelled. The appellant is Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 50 of 51 directed to surrender before the Jail authority forthwith for

remaining sentence. 67. The appeal is dismissed. 68. No costs. SURESH KAIT, J
MAY 06, 2011
„acm/mr‟ Crl.A.No.995/2002 Page 51 of 51