Surya Kant, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The Appellants in the two Criminal Appeals,
 the Central Bureau of Investigation & Rupesh Signature Not Verified Balwantbhai Brambhatt (hereinafter, “complainant”) Digitally signed by satish kumar yadav Date: 2023.04.17 17:04:04 IST Reason: respectively, are aggrieved by the order dated 19 th Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 1 of 37 December, 2022 passed by the High Court of
Gujarat at Ahmedabad allowing the anticipatory bail
application filed by Respondent No. 1 in connection
with FIR registered as C.R. No. RC0292022A0011 of
2022 before CBI/ACB/Gandhinagar Police Station,
District Gandhinagar for the offence under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 as
amended in 2018. BACKGROUND 3. The complainant is a businessman engaged in
the construction business that goes by the name: 4. Thereafter, in September 2021, search and
seizure action was initiated by the Investigation
Wing of Income Tax Department, Ahmedabad Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 2 of 37 against Safal Construction Pvt. Ltd. Following these
searches, some papers related to the complainant’s
business were seized and the Central Circle,
Range­1 Division initiated the procedure for raising
a demand notice. It is the complainant’s case that
he found out that Respondent No. 1 was handling
his case and would be preparing the appraisal
memo. Subsequently, the complainant and
Respondent No. 1 met frequently in connection with
the case and it is alleged that during these
interactions, Respondent No. 1 threatened to ruin
the complainant’s business and demanded illegal
gratification. allegedly contacted the complainant and told him to
meet him on 3rd October, 2022. Accordingly, the
complainant met Respondent No. 1 at the Income
Tax Office where Respondent No. 1 demanded illegal
gratification of Rs. 30 lakhs to help the complainant
with his case. This conversation was recorded by the
complainant on a Digital Voice Recorder which has
been handed over to the investigating authorities
and a transcript of the same has also been provided Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 3 of 37 to this Court. The complainant was directed to
deposit the amount in the account of one Vardhman
in the Dhara Angadia Firm. 6. The complainant lodged a complaint the next
morning with ACB Police Station, Ahmedabad city at
07:15 hours and a trap was then laid. The
complainant’s employee was sent to the Angadia
firm with the bribe money amounting to Rs. 30
lakhs along with personnel from the ACB trap team.
Upon depositing Rs. 30 lakhs with Dhara Angadia
firm, the complainant contacted Respondent No. 1
through WhatsApp call which was recorded by the
ACB team wherein Respondent No. 1 acknowledged
payment of the amount. Immediately thereafter, one
ACB team went to detain and arrest Respondent
No. 1, who along with some staff members, is
alleged to have physically assaulted the ACB team
and escaped from the office due to the ensuing
chaos. It is also claimed that Respondent No. 1,
while escaping from the office, handed over his
mobile phone to a colleague. Simultaneously,
another ACB team recovered the bribe amount
deposited with Dhara Angadia. 7. FIR No. 12/2022 was thus, registered against
Respondent No. 1 under Sections 7 , 13(1) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 on
4th October, 2022. 8. Owing to the gravity of the case, on
12th October, 2022, the case was transferred to the
Central Bureau of Investigation (hereinafter, “CBI”)
and FIR No. 12/2022 was re­registered as C.R. No.
RC0292022A0011 of 2022 under Section 7 of the
Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The FIR records
that Respondent No. 1 evaded arrest by the ACB
team and was still at large at the time of
re­registration of the FIR. 9. Thereafter, a notice under Section 41A , Code of
Criminal Procedure (hereinafter, “ CrPC ”) was issued
to Respondent No. 1 calling upon him to appear
before the CBI but Respondent No. 1 failed to
respond. On 17th October, 2022, Respondent No. 1
wrote a letter to the Investigating Officer that he had
suffered severe anxiety & depression due to the
allegations levelled against him and had, thus, gone
to his home state of Rajasthan for medical Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 5 of 37 treatment. He sought four days’ time to join the
investigation. 10. During investigation Smit Thakkar, owner of
Dhara Angadia firm, informed the authorities that
the illegal gratification was deposited in the account
of one Malav Ajitbhai Mehta. It is also claimed that
prior to the deposit of the amount, Malav Mehta
informed Smit Thakkar that Rs. 30 lakhs would be
deposited in the account and would have to be
transferred to another person on the same day. 11. Another notice under Section 41A was issued
to Respondent No. 1 and again, he failed to appear
before the CBI. On 26th October, 2022, Respondent
No. 1 again sought one week’s time to appear before
the Investigating Officer vide a communication sent
from the email ID of Blue Heaven Hotel, Jaipur.
Subsequently, some more Section 41A notices were
issued to Respondent No. 1, to which he sought
more time to join the investigation on various
grounds. He simultaneously preferred an
application for grant of anticipatory bail. 12. By an order dated 3rd November, 2022, the City
Civil & Sessions Court at Ahmedabad rejected
Respondent No. 1’s application for anticipatory bail.
The Special Judge ­ CBI Court No. 3 observed that
Respondent No. 1 instead of cooperating with the
investigating agency, had absconded and got himself
admitted in a hospital in Rajasthan to evade the
process of law. Some of the observations made by
the Special Judge, CBI Court, are to the following
effect: 13. The Court eventually held that custodial
interrogation of Respondent No. 1 was necessary to
reach the root of the matter. 14. Aggrieved by the order of the Special Judge,
CBI Court, Respondent No. 1 applied for
anticipatory bail before the High Court of Gujarat.
Meanwhile, on 22nd November, 2022, the Court of
Special CBI Judge issued a non­bailable warrant
against Respondent No. 1. 15. The High Court, vide impugned order dated
19th December, 2022, granted anticipatory bail to Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 8 of 37 Respondent No. 1. The High Court observed that
there is a doubt regarding the acceptance of illegal
gratification, as it was deposited in the account of
Vardhman in Dhara Angadia firm and there is no
evidence with respect to acceptance of the amount
by Respondent No. 1. The reasons on the basis of
which the High Court proceeded to grant
anticipatory bail are recorded in paragraph 12 of its
order, which states as follows: (ii) Learned APP under instructions
 of IO is unable to bring on record
 any special circumstances against
 the applicant. (iii) The role attributed to the
 applicant­ accused; (iv) That the applicant is a Additional
 Income Tax Commissioner and no
 any other criminal antecedents
 against him; (v) There is creating serious doubt
 about demand and acceptance of the
 amount; (vi) There is no discovery or recovery
 from the applicant;” 16. The High Court further directed that despite
grant of anticipatory bail, CBI could apply for police
remand of Respondent No. 1 and that if the same
was granted by the competent Magistrate,
Respondent No. 1 would be set free immediately
upon completion of the police remand. The relevant
part of the impugned order to this effect reads as
under: 17. Following the High Court’s directions,
Respondent No. 1 joined the investigation and
appeared on three days but is stated to have not
produced his mobile phone(s) though he was asked
to do so repeatedly. The CBI, then, applied for police
remand of Respondent No. 1 and, on 30 th December,
2022, the Special Judge, CBI Court No. 3 partly
allowed the said application. The Court, upon
perusal of the case diary, observed that the
allegations against Respondent No. 1 seem well­
founded and that remand is necessary for the
purpose of investigation to collect the missing link of
evidence and to unearth the larger conspiracy. The
application was allowed in the following terms: Further as per the direction of Honourable
 Gujarat High Court, upon completion of
 aforesaid period of remand, the accused be
 set free upon expiry of remand period and
 report be submitted to this Court along
 with copies of medical examination paper/
 Certificate. The case diary be handed back
 to the Investigating Officer. The accused is hereby directed to give full
 cooperation to Investigating officer to carry
 out proper investigation of this case.
 The Investigating Officer is hereby directed
 to strictly adhere to the guidelines laid
 down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of
 India in case of D.K. Basu vs. State of
 W.B. reported in AIR 1997 SC 610 and
 Honourable Gujarat High Court, while the
 accused is in custody and refrain from any
 custodial ill­treatment or torture” 18. CBI, thereafter, preferred an application for
suspension of the aforesaid order before Special CBI
Court on the ground that they wish to challenge it
before the High Court of Gujarat. Hence, Special
Judge, CBI Court No. 3 stayed operation of its order
till 7th January, 2023. This was later extended by Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 12 of 37 the Court till the final disposal of the Special Leave
Petition (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023. SUBMISSIONS 19. Assailing the impugned order granting
anticipatory bail to Respondent No. 1, Mr. Tushar
Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India on behalf
of the CBI made the following submissions: iii. The High Court grossly erred in observing
 that the FIR was registered after a long delay
 on 12th October, 2022. On that day, the CBI
 had only re­registered FIR No. 12/2022
 which was initially registered by ACB Police
 Station on 4th October, 2022. iv. Respondent No. 1’s name was included in
 the ‘Agreed List’ in respect of Group A
 officers of the Income Tax Department for
 the year 2015 and thus, his service record is
 not clean; v. Respondent No. 1 evaded arrest when the
 ACB team raided his office after he had
 acknowledged the payment of the bribe
 money over a WhatsApp call. Respondent
 No. 1 & his colleagues used criminal force to
 deter the ACB team from effecting arrest and
 collecting material evidence. While doing so,
 Respondent No. 1 handed over his mobile
 phone, which is a crucial piece of evidence, Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 14 of 37 to his colleague to ensure that the same was
 not seized by the investigating agency. This
 has been recorded in the CCTV cameras of
 the office; vi. The audio recordings and video footage have
 been examined by the Directorate of
 Forensic Science, Gujarat certifying their
 genuineness. The report concludes that
 there are no signs of alteration in the same; vii. Respondent No. 1 falsely pleaded that he
 had taken casual leave from the competent
 authority and misled the investigating
 agency by sending a reply to the notice
 issued under Section 41A , CrPC through the
 email ID of Blue Heaven Hotel, Jaipur. Upon
 investigation, it was found that Respondent
 No. 1 had never stayed at that hotel; viii. During investigation, reliable evidence has
 come on record to show that other Income
 Tax officials were hands in glove with
 Respondent No. 1, which is also evident
 from the active role played by some officials Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 15 of 37 in helping Respondent No.1 to avoid arrest
 by the ACB on 4th October, 2022. Custodial
 interrogation is highly necessary to
 ascertain the deeper plot at play and to
 examine the involvement of other Income
 Tax officials; ix. Respondent No. 1 appeared before the CBI
 after the protection granted by the High
 Court but did not handover his mobile
 handsets which are a crucial piece of
 evidence and is, thus, not cooperating with
 the investigation. Custodial interrogation is
 necessary in this case to take the
 investigation to its logical conclusion; x. Reliance has been placed on the judgment of
 this Court in State Rep. By The CBI v.
 Anil Sharma1 to argue that “custodial
 interrogation is qualitatively more
 elicitation­oriented than questioning a
 suspect who is well ensconced with a
 favourable order under Section 438 of the

1 (1997) 7 SCC 187. Code. In a case like this, effective
 interrogation of a suspected person is of
 tremendous advantage in disinterring many
 useful information and also materials which
 would have been concealed. Success in such
 interrogation would elude if the suspected
 person knows that he is well protected and
 insulated by a pre­arrest bail order during
 the time he is interrogated. Very often
 interrogation in such a condition would
 reduce to a mere ritual.”; xi. Reliance has also been placed on the
 decisions in Prem Shankar Prasad v. State of Bihar2, State of Madhya
 Pradesh v. Pradeep Sharma3 and Lavesh
 v. State (NCT of Delhi )4 to urge that
 anticipatory bail should not be granted to an
 absconder; xii. The High Court passed an unusual order
 directing that the investigating agency would

2 2021 SCC OnLine SC 955. 3 (2014) 2 SCC 171. 4 (2012) 8 SCC 730. be at liberty to apply to the competent
 Magistrate for police remand of Respondent
 No. 1 and in the same breath, prevented
 custodial interrogation of the main suspect. 20. Supporting the above submissions on behalf of
the CBI, Mr. Maninder Singh, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the complainant, made
following additions: 21. On the other hand, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr.
Shyam Divan, learned Senior Counsels strongly
refuted the insinuations made against Respondent
No. 1 and defended the High Court order granting
pre­arrest bail with the following submissions: iii. The complainant has animosity with
 Respondent No. 1 due to the past survey
 action taken for the financial year 2018­19
 against his company which led to disclosure Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 20 of 37 of additional income of Rs. 50 crores. This
 fact has not been disclosed in the FIR. The
 complainant has falsely implicated
 Respondent No. 1 due to his apprehensions
 that Respondent No. 1 will impose huge tax
 liability on him & his company; iv. A perusal of FIR No. 12/2022 shows that it
 was registered on 4th October, 2022 at 9:30
 pm while the acts of the alleged demand,
 laying down of the trap, deposit of money at
 Dhara Angadia and the raid at Respondent
 No. 1’s office occurred on 3 rd October, 2022
 and during the daytime on 4th October,
 2022. Additionally, there is no record of the
 complainant meeting police officials prior to
 the registration of FIR. The delay in
 registration of FIR which is more than 24
 hours after the alleged demand of illegal
 gratification, has not been explained; v. Only Respondent No. 1 is sought to be
 arrested by the CBI. The owner or employees
 of Dhara Angadia firm have not been Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 21 of 37 arrested and the High Court order granting
 anticipatory bail to Malav Mehta has not
 been challenged by the CBI before this
 Court; vi. CBI has misused the provisions of Section
 41A of the CrPC to arrest Respondent No. 1.
 A bare perusal of the provision and the
 guidelines laid down by this Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar5 suggest
 that a notice under Section 41A would be
 issued only when the investigating agency
 does not require the custody of a person. In
 the present case, notices under Section 41A
 were issued post the raid conducted by ACB
 team at Respondent No. 1’s office by which
 time they had decided to arrest him; vii. As per settled law of this Court, Respondent
 No. 1 cannot be termed as an absconder as
 he was availing his legal remedies. However,
 despite this, the investigating agency
 published notices in the media and pasted

5 (2014) 8 SCC 273. ‘Wanted’ posters with Respondent No. 1’s
 name, photo and designation at various
 places, which indicates mala fides of the
 investigation agency; viii. The bona fides of Respondent No. 1 are
 evident from his conduct post the grant of
 anticipatory bail. As directed by the High
 Court, Respondent No. 1 appeared before
 the CBI on at least four occasions, as and
 when called. Respondent No. 1 has also
 voluntarily given his voice samples. Given
 the fact that Respondent No. 1 is
 cooperating with the investigation, custodial
 interrogation is not required. The High
 Court erred in directing that, despite the
 grant of anticipatory bail, the investigating
 agency would be at liberty to apply to the
 competent Magistrate for police remand. This part of the order was to the
 disadvantage of Respondent No. 1 but he
 abided by the same and appeared before the
 Court when the CBI applied for police
 remand; ix. Respondent No. 1 has an impeccable service
 record as is evident from his posting to one
 of the most sensitive assignments in the
 department. Such postings are only given to
 senior officers with clean images. His
 integrity is beyond doubt and he has an
 unblemished past record. There is no case of
 disproportionate assets against Respondent
 No. 1; x. Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption
 Act, 1988 as amended in 2018, provides for
 a bar on any enquiry, inquiry or
 investigation by a police officer into an
 alleged offence by a public servant, where
 the alleged offence relates to any decision
 taken or recommendation made in exercise
 of official functions or duties, without the
 previous approval of the competent
 authority. In this case, the investigating
 agency has not complied with the
 mandatory procedure of Section 17A and
 has initiated investigation on the complaint
 without any prior approval of the Competent Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 24 of 37 Authority. The breach of these mandatory
 conditions vitiates the proceedings initiated
 against Respondent No. 1; xi. In these circumstances, the High Court has
 rightly granted anticipatory bail to
 Respondent No. 1 and has provided
 adequate reasoning for the same in
 paragraph 12 of the impugned order; xii. Cancellation of bail has to be dealt with on a
 completely different footing in comparison to
 refusal of bail and ‘cogent and
 overwhelming’ reasons are necessary to
 cancel bail once granted. Reliance has been
 placed in this regard on Dolat Ram v.
 State of Haryana6 wherein a two­judge
 Bench of this Court held that: 6 (1995) 1 SCC 349. granted. Generally speaking, the
 grounds for cancellation of bail,
 broadly (illustrative and not
 exhaustive) are: interference or
 attempt to interfere with the due
 course of administration of justice or
 evasion or attempt to evade the due
 course of justice or abuse of the
 concession granted to the accused in
 any manner. The satisfaction of the
 court, on the basis of material placed
 on the record of the possibility of the
 accused absconding is yet another
 reason justifying the cancellation of
 bail. However, bail once granted
 should not be cancelled in a
 mechanical manner without
 considering whether any supervening
 circumstances have rendered it no
 longer conducive to a fair trial to
 allow the accused to retain his
 freedom by enjoying the concession of
 bail during the trial.”

 xiii. No supervening circumstances for
 cancellation of bail have been pointed out by
 the CBI or the complainant. ANALYSIS 22. The law on grant of anticipatory bail has been
summed­up by this Court in Siddharam Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 26 of 37 Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra7 ,
after due deliberation on the parameters evolved by
the Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia
v. State of Punjab8 . This Court held thus: 7 (2011) 1 SCC 694. 8 (1980) 2 SCC 565. (vii) The courts must evaluate the entire
 available material against the accused very
 carefully. The court must also clearly
 comprehend the exact role of the accused
 in the case. The cases in which the accused
 is implicated with the help of Sections 34
 and 149 of the Penal Code, 1860 the court
 should consider with even greater care and
 caution because over­implication in the
 cases is a matter of common knowledge
 and concern; (viii) While considering the prayer for grant
 of anticipatory bail, a balance has to be
 struck between two factors, namely, no
 prejudice should be caused to the free, fair
 and full investigation and there should be
 prevention of harassment, humiliation and
 unjustified detention of the accused; (ix) The court to consider reasonable
 apprehension of tampering of the witness
 or apprehension of threat to the
 complainant; (x) Frivolity in prosecution should always
 be considered and it is only the element of
 genuineness that shall have to be
 considered in the matter of grant of bail
 and in the event of there being some doubt
 as to the genuineness of the prosecution, in
 the normal course of events, the accused is
 entitled to an order of bail.” 23. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of
Delhi )9, the Constitution Bench reiterated that while

9 (2020) 5 SCC 1. deciding applications for anticipatory bail, courts
should be guided by factors like the nature and
gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the
applicant, and the facts of the case. 24. The time­tested principles are that no
straitjacket formula can be applied for grant or
refusal of anticipatory bail. The judicial discretion of
the Court shall be guided by various relevant factors
and largely it will depend upon the facts and
circumstances of each case. The Court must draw a
delicate balance between liberty of an individual as
guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and
the need for a fair and free investigation, which
must be taken to its logical conclusion. Arrest has
devastating and irreversible social stigma,
humiliation, insult, mental pain and other fearful
consequences. Regardless thereto, when the Court,
on consideration of material information gathered by
the Investigating Agency, is prima facie satisfied that
there is something more than a mere needle of
suspicion against the accused, it cannot jeopardise
the investigation, more so when the allegations are
grave in nature. 25. Keeping these principles in mind, we proceed
to evaluate the rival submissions. At the outset, it is
to be noted that the High Court fell in a factual error
in observing that FIR was registered on
12th October, 2022 for the offence alleged to have
taken place on 3rd and 4th October, 2022. The FIR
was registered by the ACB against Respondent No. 1
on 4th October, 2022 under Sections 7 , 13(1) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and
was re­registered by CBI on 12th October, 2022. 26. Further, the primary ground assigned by the
High Court to grant anticipatory bail to Respondent
No. 1 is that there was doubt as to the acceptance of
the bribe amount since records of Dhara Angadia
firm had not been produced establishing any link
between Respondent No. 1 & the firm. 27. The CBI has produced the case diary which
contains the statement made by Smit Thakkar, who
handles Dhara Angadia firm. He has clearly stated
that Malav Mehta was the owner of Vardhman
account and had informed him that 30 lakhs rupees
would be deposited in his account on 4 th October, Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 30 of 37 2022, which in turn had to be sent to someone else.
The purported recording of conversation between
the complainant and Respondent No. 1 wherein
Respondent No. 1 thanked the complainant, after
the deposit of amount in the Vardhman account, is
a reasonable link to connect Respondent No. 1 with
the deposit of illegal gratification in Dhara Angadia
firm, thereby prima facie showing acceptance
thereof. 28. Regarding the alleged discrepancy of delay of
more than 24 hours in the registration of FIR, we
find from the material produced before us that the
complainant started narrating the complaint at
07:15 hours and it ended at 08:00 hours on
4th October, 2022. The panchnama, annexed in the
case diary, provides details of the trap laid by the
ACB and lists all the activities of the ACB team on
that day, thereby dispelling any doubts of mala
fides on the part of the investigating agencies. 29. We have also gone through the statement of
Mr. Vivek Johri, Assistant Commissioner of Income
Tax who has stated that Respondent No. 1 handed Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 31 of 37 over his mobile phone to him before leaving the
office, which Mr. Johri later threw away. forcefully evaded his arrest with the help of his
colleagues and got the evidence destroyed, is a
strong circumstance to indicate his complicity at
this stage though a clear picture would emerge only
on completion of investigation. 31. The nature and gravity of the alleged offence
should have been kept in mind by the High Court.
Corruption poses a serious threat to our society and
must be dealt with iron hands. It not only leads to
abysmal loss to the public exchequer but also
tramples good governance. The common man
stands deprived of the benefits percolating under
social welfare schemes and is the worst hit. It is
aptly said, “Corruption is a tree whose branches are
of an unmeasurable length; they spread everywhere;
and the dew that drops from thence, Hath infected
some chairs and stools of authority.” Hence, the
need to be extra conscious. 32. From the material placed on record, it seems
that prima facie, the allegations against Respondent
No. 1 cannot be brushed aside lightly at this stage.
There appears to be a well­organised syndicate
comprising officers and officials of the Income Tax
Department, businessmen and Hawala traders, who
are in tandem. Such a nexus needs to be unearthed
through an unimpaired and unobstructed
investigation. 33. The contention that prior approval of
investigation, as mandated under Section 17A of
Prevention of Corruption Act, has not been obtained
and thus, the proceedings initiated against
Respondent No. 1 stand vitiated, has no legal or
factual basis. Section 17A merely contemplates that
police officers shall not conduct any enquiry, inquiry
or investigation into any offence alleged to have been
committed by a public servant where the alleged
offence is relatable to any recommendation made or
decision taken in discharge of official functions or
duties, without the previous approval of the
competent authority. The first proviso to the section
states that such approval is not necessary in cases Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 33 of 37 involving arrest of the person on the spot on the
charges of accepting undue advantage. 34. As may be seen, the first proviso to Section
17A refers to cases wherein a public servant is
charged with acceptance of an undue advantage or
attempt thereof. A prior approval or sanction to
investigate such an officer in a trap case is likely to
defeat the very purpose of trap and the
investigation, which is not the underlying intention
of the legislature. The investigation against
Respondent No. 1, being an accused of demanding a
bribe, did not require any previous approval of the
Central Government. That apart, the accusation
against Respondent No. 1 does not revolve around
any recommendations made or decisions taken by
him in his quasi­judicial or administrative capacity. 35. It is true that cancellation of bail must be done
only for cogent and overwhelming reasons.
Nevertheless, setting aside an unjustified order
granting bail is distinct from cancellation of bail.
This Court would not, invariably intervene into the
judicial discretion exercised by the High Court while Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 34 of 37 granting bail to an accused. All that to be ensured is
that the High Court exercises its discretion
judiciously, cautiously and strictly in conformity
with the basic principles laid down by this Court
from time to time in a series of decisions. 36. The Constitution Bench in Sushila Aggarwal (supra) observed that: 37. Having considered the nature of allegations,
material on record and the settled legal principles
on grant of anticipatory bail, we are of the view that,
howsoever hard or harsh it may be, the High Court
ought to have refrained itself from extending
protection against arrest to Respondent No. 1 in
exercise of its discretionary jurisdiction under Section 438 of the CrPC. 38. Assuming Respondent No. 1 had some valid
apprehensions that the actions of ACB (State Police)
were actuated with extraneous reasons, he can no
longer say so once the investigation has been
transferred to CBI. We do not find any allegation of
personal vendetta, victimisation, bias or ulterior
motive against the Central Agency. In any case, CBI
is expected to carry out a free, fair and
dispassionate investigation with faithful observance
to the rights of an accused, who is subjected to
custodial interrogation. 39. The appeals are, accordingly, allowed. The
impugned judgment and order of the High Court
dated 19th December, 2022 is set aside and the
anticipatory bail application of Respondent No. 1 is
dismissed. As a consequence thereto, the order
dated 30th December, 2022 passed by the Special
Judge, CBI Court No. 3 partly allowing CBI’s
application for remand is also set aside. 40. We clarify that this Court has expressed only
prima facie opinion on the merits of the allegations
for the limited purpose to refuse or grant pre­arrest Crl. A. No._____ of 2023 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023 etc. Page 36 of 37 bail. If Respondent No. 1 moves an application for
grant of regular bail before an appropriate Court,
the same shall be considered on its own merits and
in accordance with law, uninfluenced by the
observations made hereinabove. 41. The appeals are disposed of in the above
terms. 42. Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed
of as well. …....…………………..J.
 (SURYA KANT)

 …....…………………..J.
 (J.K. MAHESHWARI)
New Delhi; April 17, 2023.