1. The present writ petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the

Constitution of India seeks quashing of the final order no. F-492-494/CE/07-

SC(PB) dated 15th February, 2007 passed by the Settlement Commission, WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 1 of 28 Customs & Central Excise, Principal Bench, Delhi (hereinafter referred to as

„the Settlement Commission‟) whereby the applications filed by the

respondents herein for settlement were disposed of by the Settlement

Commission. 2. The facts as are necessary for the adjudication of the present petition

are as follows:- (g) On 20th October, 2005 the respondent no. 1 to 6 filed

 applications under Section 32E of the said Act before the

 Settlement Commission, admitting duty liability of

 `3,84,17,138/- and further disclosing that actual proportion of

 raw tobacco in their product i.e. Hans branded Khaini, is 70%

 and not 95% as shown in their records. On 26th October, 2005 a

 demand-cum-show cause notice, demanding duty of

 `34,50,57,409/- and proposing confiscation of seized Indian

 currency of `20.42 crores and `3.13 crores, 15 kilograms of

 foreign marked gold and finished goods worth `1.52 crores,

 was issued by the petitioner-Department to the respondent no.1

 to 16. On 23rd November, 2005 the petitioner filed reply to the

 applications for settlement filed by respondent no. 1 to 6. (h) On 2nd January, 2006 the respondent no.1 to 6 filed revised

 applications under Section 32E of the said Act, before the

 Settlement Commission admitting an enhanced duty liability of

 `5,79,02,915/-. The respondent no. 1 to 6 quantified the duty

 evasion on the basis of data regarding consumption of raw

 tobacco, which had been discussed in the show cause notice for

 corroboration purposes. The amount admitted by the respondent WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 4 of 28 no. 1 to 6 included the time barred duty for the period beyond

 five years from the date of issue of show cause notice. (i) The petitioner-Department filed its reply to the revised

 application on 10th January, 2006. The Settlement Commission

 after hearing arguments of the parties admitted the application

 of respondent no. 1 to 6 on 23rd January, 2006. Thereafter, on

 16th February 2006 respondent no.7 to 13 filed application

 before the Settlement Commission. The Department filed its

 reply to the applications on behalf of respondent no. 7 to 13 on

 3rd April, 2006. The Settlement Commission admitted the

 application of respondent no.7 to 13, after hearing arguments of

 the parties, on 2nd May, 2006. (j) On 17th March 2006 respondent no. 14 to 16 filed application

 for settlement before the Settlement Commission. The reply

 thereto on behalf of the petitioner-Department was filed on 2nd

 May, 2006. The Settlement Commission admitted the

 application of respondent no. 14 to 16 after hearing parties on

 16th May, 2006. (k) In the meantime, vide its order dated 9th May, 2006 the

 Settlement Commission directed the Commissioner

 (Investigation), Settlement Commission, to conduct WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 5 of 28 investigation on certain points. On 21st July, 2006 the

 respondent no.1 to 16 filed their comments on the points raised

 by the Settlement Commission wherein, they alleged that the

 duty calculation chart prepared by the petitioner in the show

 cause notice was not reliable for quantification, because the

 information therein did not constitute direct evidence of

 clandestine manufacture and removal; and that there was

 duplication and also that it was based on various sources like

 transporters, sub-transporters, dealers, sub-dealers, commercial

 tax department etc. (l) On 24th July, 2006 the petitioner-Department also filed

 elaborate counter comments wherein all the allegations raised

 by respondent no. 1 to 16 purportedly seeking relief on

 unsubstantiated grounds were rebutted point-wise. (m) On 15th November, 2006 the Commissioner (Investigation)

 submitted its investigation report, wherein, the view of the

 petitioner-Department was broadly supported in respect of duty

 quantification chart, manufacturing capacity of respondent no. 1

 to 16 etc. However, it was mentioned in the investigation report

 that demand of duty amounting to `3,13,38,000/- made on the

 basis of transportation of goods by one specific transporter,

 M/s Shree Govinda Roadways was not duly corroborated. WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 6 of 28 (n) On 23rd January, 2007 after hearing the parties, the Settlement

 Commission directed the other respondents to file amended

 application. The respondent no.6 filed amended application as

 per the directions of the Settlement Commission on 31st

 January, 2007. (o) On 9th February, 2007 during the initial hearing, the respondent

 no. 1 to 16 admitted further additional duty liability, thereby

 enhancing their total admission to `8,33,88,511/- for the period

 from 1st April, 1998 to 3rd November, 2004, by disclosing the

 fact that the quantity of raw tobacco shown as „sold‟ to three

 specific dealers may be included in the computation of use of

 raw tobacco. (p) Thereafter, vide the impugned order dated 15th February, 2007

 the Settlement Commission settled the total duty at

 `16,70,76,824/- including Education Cess, with interest, to be

 adjusted out of cash seized from respondent no. 1 to 6. Further,

 15 kilograms of seized gold was confiscated with an option to

 redeem the same on payment of fine in lieu of confiscation

 amounting to `30 lakhs. The currency seized from respondent

 no. 15 amounting to `3,13,18,500/- and other seized excisable

 goods were not considered appropriate for confiscation. Apart WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 7 of 28 from the above relief, the Settlement Commission granted

 immunity from penalty and prosecution to the respondent no. 1

 to 16. (q) Aggrieved by the said impugned order dated 15 th February,

 2007 the petitioner-Department challenges its correctness by

 way of the present petition. 3. Mr Mohan Parasaran, the learned Additional Solicitor General,

appearing on behalf of the petitioner-Department, urged that the Settlement

Commission should not have gone into the complex facts and issues that

arose as a result of the subject show cause notice. Counsel also argued that

the Settlement Commission did not go into the question of full and true

disclosure at the stage of admission of the application filed by the

respondents herein. It was further submitted that the impugned order is

invalid as there is no recording therein of satisfaction of true and full

disclosure on behalf of the respondents herein. Furthermore, it was urged on

behalf of the petitioner-Department that the impugned order settled issues

which were anterior to the issuance of the show cause notice and that the

application under Section 32E was filed by the respondents before the

issuance of the show cause notice and was, thus, not maintainable. 4. Per contra, it is urged on behalf of the respondents by Sh Dushyant

Dave, Senior Advocate, that the issue of full and true disclosure at the time WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 8 of 28 of admission of the application filed by the respondents was never urged

before the Settlement Commission itself at any stage and that the petitioner-

Department accepted the order of admission without demur when the same

was passed by the Settlement Commission. On behalf of the respondents it

was further urged that Section 32E is a self-contained code and that its

principal purpose is settlement and not adjudication and as such the present

petition is not maintainable. It was also urged on behalf of the respondents

that Section 32E(2) states that the application before the Settlement

Commission may be made 180 days after the seizure and as such the

application filed on behalf of the respondents was maintainable. It was

further argued on behalf of the respondents that the Settlement Commission

has power under Section 32F(7) to consider issues apart from the

application. It was lastly argued on behalf of the respondents that the

decision of the Settlement Commission is not justiciable under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India and that a pragmatic/practical view

should govern the proceedings before the Settlement Commission. 5. Before dealing with the merits of the contentions made on behalf of

the parties it would be necessary to consider the relevant provisions of the

said Act. (a) Section 31(c) of the said Act reads as under: section (4), and after giving an opportunity to the applicant
 and to the Commissioner of Central Excise having
 jurisdiction to be heard, either in person or through a
 representative duly authorised in this behalf, and after
 examining such further evidence as may be placed before it
 or obtained by it, the Settlement Commission may, in
 accordance with the provisions of this Act, pass such order as
 it thinks fit on the matters covered by the application and any
 other matter relating to the case not covered by the
 application, but referred to in the report of the Commissioner
 of Central Excise and Commissioner (Investigation) under
 sub-section (3) or sub-section (4). (6) An order under sub-section (5) shall not be passed in
 respect of an application filed on or before the 31st day of
 May, 2007, later than the 29th day of February, 2008 and in
 respect of an application made on or after the 1st day of June,
 2007, after nine months from the last day of the month in
 which the application was made, failing which the settlement
 proceedings shall abate, and the adjudicating authority
 before whom the proceeding at the time of making the WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 12 of 28 application was pending, shall dispose of the case in
 accordance with the provisions of this Act as if no application
 under section 32E had been made. (7) Subject to the provisions of section 32A, the materials
 brought on record before the Settlement Commission shall be
 considered by the Members of the concerned Bench before
 passing any order under sub-section (5) and, in relation to
 the passing of such order, the provisions of section 32D shall
 apply. (8) The order passed under sub-section (5) shall provide for
 the terms of settlement including any demand by way of duty,
 penalty or interest, the manner in which any sums due under
 the settlement shall be paid and all other matters to make the
 settlement effective and in case of rejection contain the
 reasons therefor and it shall also provide that the settlement
 shall be void if it is subsequently found by the Settlement
 Commission that it has been obtained by fraud or
 misrepresentation of facts: (g) Section 32-O of the said Act reads as under: 6. Before proceeding further it would be necessary to extract the relevant

portions of the decision cited by the parties. (i) In M/s Picasso Overseas and Others vs. The Director General

 of Revenue Intelligence and Another, WP(C) 1495/2007, a

 Division Bench of this Court held: 10. All the abovesaid provisions and the paragraphs of the
 forms make it abundantly clear that what is required is a
 decision when there are terms of settlement which are agreed
 to by an applicant and a liability of duty which is accepted by
 him. Thus, it cannot be said that when an applicant comes for
 settlement he can be fastened with a liability which he never
 intended as accepted to be payable by him. We may further
 hold from sub-section (1) of Section 127 C which uses the
 expression "complexity of the investigation" meaning thereby
 a Settlement Commission would not in cases of complexity of
 the investigation have jurisdiction to decide and admit such
 an application. Therefore, when there are highly complex and
 contentious questions of fact, a Settlement Commission
 would not ordinarily even admit the application in as much as
 the scope and object of scheme of Sections of Chapter XVA
 is settlement and not adjudication of highly complex
 questions of facts. Section 127 I also throws further light by
 entitling Settlement Commission to refer the case back to the
 proper officer who shall dispose of the case in accordance WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 17 of 28 with the provisions of the Act as if no application for
 settlement has been made under Section 127B. 11. We now refer to provision of Section 127F sub-section
 (2) which has been relied upon by the counsel for the
 respondents. This provision states that Settlement
 Commission has the power to perform the functions of an
 officer of customs under the Act in relation to the case. We
 feel that these words as found in sub section must be read in
 accordance with the scheme of the Chapter XV A and its
 object and on so reading the aforesaid words used in sub-
 section (2) we find that they are basically to give finality to
 the order of the Settlement Commission as an order under the
 provisions of the Act and similar to what an Adjudicating
 Officer does. In fact, the expression "exclusive jurisdiction to
 exercise the power and perform the functions of any officer of
 customs" is basically to look at the evidence and call for such
 evidence in order to determine whether the Settlement
 Commission should or should not accept the additional
 customs duty which the petitioner says is acceptable to him.
 The aforesaid expression, therefore, appearing in Section
 127F (2) has to be read in the context of the scope and the
 object of the Settlement Commission being to settle the
 matter by accepting the duty amount in and around the figure
 which the petitioner feels is acceptable to him. There cannot
 be a detailed adjudication and enquiry on the basis of Section
 127 F(2) when the applicant refuses to accept the higher
 amount of additional customs duty which is sought to be
 fastened upon him. We may lastly note the provision of sub-
 section (9) of Section 127 (C) and according to which a
 settlement is void even if it is found by the Settlement
 Commission subsequently that the settlement has been
 obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of facts. This
 expression "obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of facts" (ii) In Commissioner of Income Tax, Jalpaiguri vs. Om Prakash

 Mittal , (2005) 2 Supreme Court Cases 751, the Supreme Court

 observed as follows: (iii) In Light Engg. Corporation vs. Union of India , 2007 (207)

 ELT 40 (P&H), the Division Bench of the High Court of

 Punjab and Haryana observed as under: WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 21 of 28 (iv) In Commissioner of Central Excise, Visakhapatnam vs. True

 Woods Pvt. Ltd. , 2006(199) ELT 388 (Del.), the court observed

 as follows: There may, however, be situations in which the Commission
 may not be able to, at the stage of admission of the
 application, record a finding with any amount of certainty. In
 any such situation, it will not be legally impermissible for the
 Commission to keep the question open as it has done in the
 instant case to be examined at a later stage or at the stage of
 final disposal of the application. What is important is that
 there must be full and true disclosure to the satisfaction of the
 Commission before any relief can be granted to the applicants
 which implies that the requirement of such a full and true
 disclosure is a continuing requirement that needs to be
 satisfied from the beginning of the proceedings till the
 conclusion thereof. The Commission may consequently be
 justified in throwing out the application at any stage if it
 comes to the conclusion that the disclosure made by the
 assessee is either incomplete or untrue. The passage relied
 upon by the learned counsel for the petitioner simply
 emphasizes the significance of a full and true disclosure but
 stops short of making such a disclosure or a finding on the WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 22 of 28 satisfaction of that requirement as a condition precedent for
 the assumption of jurisdiction." (v) In Kihoto Hollohan vs. Zachillhu and Others , 1992 Supp (2)

 SCC 651, the Supreme Court observed as under: (vi) In Killick Nixon Ltd, Mumbai vs. Deputy Commissioner of

 Income Tax, Mumbai and Others , (2003) 1 SCC 145, the

 Supreme Court observed as under: 7. In the present case the petitioner has firstly urged that the Settlement

Commission should not have gone into the complex facts and issues that

arose as a result of the subject show cause notice. In this respect the

petitioner relied on the decision of this Court in M/s Picasso Overseas

(supra). However, in that case the High Court of Delhi itself stated as

under, "Of course, we may hasten to add in certain cases in spite of a huge

variation and dispute which may be sought to be raised by the Department,

it can be found that the disputes raised by the Department as to rates or

other relevant facts may not be supported by other admitted facts which may

appear from the records or the report which is called for by the Commission

or such enquiry if the Commission may want to perform under Section

127F(2) and in such a case the Settlement Commission in spite of a

contentious stand of the Department of Customs may still choose to go

ahead and accept the figure of duty as acceptable by the applicant to the

Commission as the said duty would be clearly born out from records of the

Department of customs itself." Thus, this decision itself carved out an WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 24 of 28 exception where complex issues could be gone into by the Commission

provided other admitted facts appear from the records or the report called for

by the Commission or such enquiry. In fact in the instant case the Settlement

Commission directed the Commissioner (Investigation) to conduct

investigation and the Commissioner (Investigation) submitted its report to

the Settlement Commission. It is only thereafter that the Settlement

Commission settled the total duty at `16,70,76,824/- as against the total

admission of `8,33,88,511/- made by the respondents herein. Therefore, if

the respondents have not made a complaint against the amount settled by the

Settlement Commission, which is twice the amount admitted by them before

the Commission, it does not lie in the mouth of the petitioner to assail that

amount. 8. It was next urged by the petitioner that the Settlement Commission did

not go into the question of full and true disclosure at the stage of admission

of the application filed by the respondents herein. It was also urged that the

impugned order is invalid as there is no recording of satisfaction of true and

full disclosure. In this behalf the petitioner relied on the decision of this

Court in Commissioner of Central Excise, Visakhapatnam (supra).

However, that decision itself states that it is permissible for the Commission

to keep the question of true and full disclosure open at the stage of

admission of the application to be examined at a later stage or at the stage of

final disposal of the application. That decision categorically states that, WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 25 of 28 "What is important is that there must be full and true disclosure to the

satisfaction of the Commission before any relief can be granted to the

applicants which implies that the requirement of such a full and true

disclosure is a continuing requirement that needs to be satisfied from the

beginning of the proceedings till the conclusion thereof. The Commission

may consequently be justified in throwing out the application at any stage if

it comes to the conclusion that the disclosure made by the assessee is either

incomplete or untrue." Therefore, it raises the question as to the satisfaction

of the commission with regard to full and true disclosure and how it is to be

expressed. In this behalf it is observed that the satisfaction regarding full and

true disclosure itself has to be discerned from the terms of the settlement

arrived at by the Settlement Commission in relation to the facts and

circumstances of the case and need not necessarily be expressed in so many

words. From the impugned settlement order itself, in para 31 thereof, it can

be seen that the Settlement Commission observed that, " Therefore, the

provisions relating to the settlement make it incumbent on the applicant to

make full and true disclosure to the duty liability which had not been

disclosed before the jurisdictional Central Excise Officer ....." Thus, it can

safely be inferred that the Settlement Commission was conscious of the

requirement of true and full disclosure by the respondent and considered this

requirement fulfilled before arriving at the impugned settlement. Thus, this

contention of the petitioner is untenable. WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 26 of 28 9. It was lastly urged by the petitioner that the application under Section

32E of the Act was filed before the issuance of the show cause notice and

was consequently not maintainable. In this respect it is seen that Section

32E(b) provides that no such application shall be made unless a show cause

notice for recovery of duty issued by the Central Excise Officer has been

received by the applicant. It is also seen that Section 32E(2) states that the

assessee shall not be entitled to make an application under Sub-section (1)

before the expiry of one hundred and eighty days from the date of the

seizure, where any excisable goods, books of accounts, other documents

have been seized. In the present case, the respondents have admittedly made

the application for settlement after the expiry of one hundred and eighty

days from the date of seizure. In this behalf it must be observed that both

these provisions are directory in nature and need not be obeyed or fulfilled

exactly. Secondly, if the aforesaid provisions are interpreted harmoniously,

which is essential to ensure that neither one of them is rendered repugnant or

otiose, it can be said that the application could have been made after one

hundred and eighty days of the seizure or after receipt of show cause notice,

whichever occurred earlier. Thus we find no infirmity in the Settlement

Commission entertaining the application for settlement. There is another

aspect of the matter that needs to be highlighted. We feel that if we accept

the submissions made on behalf of the petitioner, then it will discourage

people from approaching the Settlement Commission. It must be emphasized

that the expression used in the relevant provisions is "settlement" in WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 27 of 28 contradiction to "adjudication" and therefore the very scheme of the relevant

provisions is settlement and not adjudication. In these circumstances, a

pragmatic and practical view should govern the proceedings before the

Settlement Commission. 10. In the result, the petition is devoid of merit and is accordingly

dismissed. No order as to costs. SIDDHARTH MRIDUL, J. BADAR DURREZ AHMED, J. SEPTEMBER 17, 2010
mk WP(C) 4410/2007 Page 28 of 28