These bunch of appeals filed by two different assessee's are directed

against two common orders passed by the CIT(A)-37, Mumbai dated

24.07.2012 for the assessment years 2001-02 to 2007-08. Since, the facts are

identical and issues are common, these appeals were clubbed, heard together

and disposed of by this common order for the sake of convenience. The

grounds of appeal raised by the assessee, Shri Dilip Shah are as follows: Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi 5. On the fact and circumstances of the case as well as in Law, the
 Learned CIT(A) has erred in confirming the action of Learned
 Assessing Officer in inferring and holding that the appellant
 earned commission @ 2% on account of services rendered by him,
 ignoring the prevailing commission rate in the steel market
 ranging between 0.02% - 0.05%, especially having regard to the
 fact that the Appellant is a registered broker in the market. 6. On the fact and circumstances of the case as well as in Law, the
 Learned CIT(A) has erred in confirming the action of Learned
 Assessing Officer in making an addition of Rs.70,92,721/- to the
 income of the Appellant, being Commission earned @ 2% on the
 bogus sales bills issued during the year to various parties. 7. On the fact and circumstances of the case as well as in Law, the
 Learned CIT(A) has erred in confirming the action of Learned
 Assessing Officer in holding that the cash deposits in the bank
 accounts of the persons other than assessee (third parties) as
 undisclosed income of the appellant. 8. On the fact and circumstances of the case as well as in Law, the
 Learned CIT(A) has erred in confirming the action of Learned
 Assessing Officer in making an addition of Rs.7,01,650/- to the income
 of the Appellant on the basis of the cash deposits in the various bank
 accounts of the persons other than assessee (third parties), ignoring
 the fact that the Appellant was merely a commission agent of those
 persons. 9. The appellant craves leave to add, amend alter or delete the said
 ground of appeal. 2. Brief facts of the case extracted from ITA No. 5739/Mum/2012 in the

case of Shri Dilip C. Shah for the assessment year 2001-02 are that search and

seizure u/s 132 of the Income tax Act, 1961 was carried out in the case of Shri

Dilip C. Shah and Shri Atul Sanghvi on 05.02.2007. During the course of search

and seizure operation incriminating materials were found which revealed that 4 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

the assessee along with Shri Atul Shanghvi involved in providing

accommodation entries to various beneficiaries. The incriminating documents

found further revealed that the assessee has operated more than 100 bank

accounts in various names and also tampered documents like PAN card and

other evidence in support of address proof to open and operate bank accounts

in the name of various persons. Earlier a survey action was carried out at the

office premises at 78/80, Motor garage Bldg. Mota Compound, Gaushala, C.P.

Tank, Mumbai-4. During the course of survey keys of three bank lockers were

found in the possession of the assessee and Shri Atul A. Sanghvi. Accordingly,

a warrant by u/s. 132 was executed and total cash of Rs.47.30 lacks along

with some incriminating documents were found. During the course of search

u/s 132, statement u/s 132(4) of the Income tax Act was recorded from the

assessee and confronted the incriminating materials found like bank account,

and signed cheque books and also bill books of various concerns. The assessee

while recording statement u/s 132(4) admitted that he along with Atul Sanghvi

were engaged in the business of commission agents in steel market arranging

business between the sellers of goods and buyers of goods for which they

charged commission ranging between 0.02% to 0.05%. The assessee further

admitted that he and Shri Atul Sanghvi operated this business jointly, however

there is no written agreement entered into between them. The assessee 5 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

further submitted that he is a reputed commission agent in the market and the

prospective sellers of goods approach him at his office with various offer to sell

their goods. He identifies the buyer for the goods for which he takes necessary

precautions to protect the business accordingly collects various information

from the buyers as well as sellers in the form of ration card, PAN card, VAT

registration papers, bank account details, as also the cheque books as well as

letter heads, bills, vouchers etc of such persons. It is only after submitting the

documents as mentioned, he entertained the parties. This is the reason why

during the search proceedings, the department came across with these

documents in the premises. The assessee further submitted that the

documents found during the course of search was belonging to the various

suppliers of goods who kept the documents in his possession to facilitate the

transaction expeditiously. Therefore, these documents cannot be considered

as his documents to hold that he floated dummy concerns in the name of

fictitious/existing persons so as to issue bogus bills. 3. Consequent to search proceedings notice u/s. 153A of the Income tax

Act 1961, was issued directing the assessee to file the return of income for the

six assessment years immediately preceding the assessment years in which the

search took place. In response to notice, the assessee has filed returns of

income for the assessment years 2001-02 to 2007-08 on 15.02.2008. The case 6 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

has been selected for scrutiny and accordingly notice u/s 143(2) and 142(1)

along with detailed questionnaire were issued to the assessee. In response to

the notices authorized representative for the assessee appeared from time to

time and furnished various details, as called for. 4. During the course of assessment proceedings, the A.O noticed that the

assessee is operating more than 100 bank accounts in various entities name in

different bank accounts and the total sum found credited in these bank

accounts was worked out at Rs.21,22,27,57,495/-. The A.O further observed

that the assessee had issued sales bills in the name of 51 entities for an

amount of Rs.8,59,99,06,373/-. The A.O has summarised the details of

companies/firms operated by the assessee along with shri Atul Sanghvi and the

names of persons of concerns are listed in the assessment order dated

31.12.2008 at paragraph 5.1. Similarly, the A.O has listed the total sales bills

issued by the assessee in the name of various concerns at paragraph 5.2 of

assessment order dated 31.12.2008. The A.O also listed the names of

companies/firms and corresponding bank accounts operated in various banks

at paragraph 5.3 of his order dated 31.12.2008. As per the information

gathered during the course of search coupled with further inquiries conducted

during the course of assessment proceedings, the A.O came to the conclusion

that the assessee along with Shri Atul Sanghvi is involved in providing 7 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

accommodation entries of bogus purchase bills to various entities. The

information gathered during the course of search and assessment proceedings

revealed that the assessee has issued sale bills worth Rs.856,64,49,533/- in the

name of M/s Varun Industries Ltd. 13, Sankeshwar Darshan, A.G. Pawar Cross

Lane, Byculla/Mumbai. The total sale bills issued from various concerns name

to M/s Varun Industries Pvt. Ltd., were seized at the time of search are marked

as Annexure A1 to Annexure A19 which are reflected in the assessment order

at paragraph 5.1. 5. During the course of the assessment proceedings, the A.O called upon

the assessee to explain credits found in the bank account and sales bills issued

to M/s Varun Industries Ltd. In response to show cause notice, the assessee

submitted that he is a registered commission agent in the steel market. He

along with Shri Atul Sanghvi are engaged in the business of commission agent

facilitating sale and purchase between the persons manufacturing steel goods

and persons buying steel goods. The assessee further submitted that he

charged commission ranging from 0.05% to 0.15% depending upon the size of

the business for which he collected various details from the prospective sellers

of goods including their PAN card, sales bills, bank account details, address

proof etc. The assessee further submitted that the bank account found during

the course of search and sale bills found in various names do not belong to 8 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

him, but the same were belonging to the entities manufacturing goods which

are kept in our in custody for easy facilitation of business, therefore, the same

cannot be construed as dummy entities floated by me for facilitating issue of

bogus bills. 6. The A.O, after considering the submissions of the assessee and also

taking into account the seized material found during the course of search,

came to the conclusion that the assessee along with Shri Atul Sanghvi was

engaged in the activity of providing accommodation entries of bogus purchase

bills to various beneficiaries. The A.O further observed that the modus

operandi of the assessee is that he opens bank accounts in various fictitious /

existing persons name by fabricating address proof and PAN card, which is

evident from the fact that he has opened bank account's in one persons name

in different bank accounts by fixing his photograph on the fabricatéd address

proof and PAN No. The A.O further observed that the statement recorded

during the course of search from one Mr. Yashwant Pandya who claimed to be

the accountant of the assessee indicates that the assessee is issuing sales bills

in various names. Shri Yashwant Pandya accountant of the assessee who has

clearly stated in his statement that he had under instruction from Shri Atul

Sanghvi and Shri Dilip C. Shah, bills in respect of the various companies were

prepared in the office of the assessee. The bills were prepared in the name of 9 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

various concerns whose blank cheques were found during the course of

search. The A.O further relied upon the statement of Shri Pradip M Jabalia who

had given his address for correspondence for some of the bank accounts

operated by shri Atul Sanghvi and Shri Dilip C. Shah. In the statement he has

confirmed that the letters from the bank were collected by Shri Atul and Dilip

Sanghvi. The sum and substance of the statement given by the Shri Pradip M

Jabalia is that Shri Atul Sanghvi and Shri Dilip Sanghvi floated various dummy

concerns at the address of Shri Pradip M Jabalia. The A.O also relied upon the

statement of Shri Vinod Kumar Uttamlal Shah who is the person responsible

for introducing the account in the name of Shri Sandeep P. Shah in Bank of

Maharashtra, Jhavery Bazar branch. Shri Vinod Kumar Shah has stated that he

has seen Shri Dilip Shah only ones in his life. Shri Sandeep P. Shah came to his

office with account opening form. He did not know who he was, but Shri Atul

Sanghvi who was relative stated that he knows Shri Sandeep P. Shah very well

and was from his village. The A.O further gathered information which revealed

that the photo appearing in the account opening form of Shri Sandeep P Shah

is appearing in three different accounts in the three different names and all the

cheques books found in the possession Shri Atul Sanghvi and Dilip Shah. The

A.O further referred to the statement recorded from Shri N. V. Neelakantan

who is the person responsible for opening accounts of concerns run by Shri 10 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

Atul Sanghvi and P. Shah on the National Cooperative Bank, Fort branch. In

question No. 3 he has stated that the duo Shri Atul Sanghvi and Shri Dilip Shah

approached the bank for opening account of the concern in their group.

Further it has been stated that the person in whose name accounts were

opened never came forward to operate the account which was in fact done by

Shri Atul Sanghvi and Shri Dilip Shah. The A.O further noted that even the

summons issued to all these addresses where returned unserved; however the

letter sent by the DRI were received and had been found in the possession of

the assessee indicating that these two persons are managing the affairs of all

the companies whose letterheads and bank accounts have been found from

the assessee's possession. 7. From the above inquiries and evidences gathered during the search and

post search enquiries, the A.O came to the conclusion that Shri Atul Sanghvi

and Shri Dilip Shah where the persons, who had operated 100 bank accounts in

different entities name to facilitate the issue of bogus bills to various

beneficiaries. The A.O further observed that the seized documents found

during the course of the search undoubtedly proved that the duo were

involved in providing accommodation entries of bogus purchase bills in the

name of dummy concerns. The A.O further observed that the duo have

fabricated documents like PAN card, signature etc, to open bank accounts in 11 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

the name of different persons who had nothing to do with those transactions.

The assessee and Shri A. Sanghvi have operated bank accounts in different

persons' names, however the real transactions have been carried out by the

assessee along with Shri Atul Sanghvi. All these sequence of events and

evidences clearly indicates that the assessee is engaged in the activity of

providing accommodation entries therefore, he opined that the total sum

found credited in these bank accounts is the gross turnover of the assessee

from the activity of issuing bogus bills. The A.O has concluded assessment in

the following manner:- Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

 (IV) Unexplained cash deposit in bank accounts :- 8. Aggrieved by the assessment order the assessee preferred an appeal

before the CIT(A). When the appeals filed by the assessee were pending before

the CIT(A) for adjudication, the CIT [Central Circle(1)], Mumbai had issued a

show cause notice u/s 263 of the Act, and on the ground that the assessment

order passed by the A.O u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 153A was erroneous insofar as it is

prejudicial to the interest of the revenue, as the A.O has not considered the

issue of bogus sales bills issued in the name of M/s Varun Industries Ltd. and

also unexplained credits found in the bank accounts operated by the assessee.

The CIT Mumbai, after considering the explanations of the assessee, set aside

the order passed by the A.O u/s 153A r.w.s. 143(3) and directed the A.O to

redo assessment with the following directions: The remaining amount that remains unexplained, would be
 taxed in the respective years in the hands of the assessee
 proportionately, on substantive basis as mentioned in the
 foregoing para." 9. The CIT, [Central Circle(1)] in his order u/s 263 dated 29.03.2011,

directed the A.O to make additions towards sales bills raised in the name of

M/s Varun Industries Ltd. on protective basis in the hands of the assessee to

the extent of his share of business to safeguard the interest of the revenue and

that the commission income on the said transactions should be added

proportionately on substantive basis in the hands of the assessee as already 14 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

done in the original assessment order. Regarding cash deposits aggregating to

Rs.1388.09 crore in the assessment years comprised in the period for which

the assessee has not been able to furnish proper explanation, the same should

be taxed in the hands of the assessee proportionately to the extent of his share

in the business on substantive basis as his own unexplained and unaccounted

income. The CIT(A) further directed the A.O to allow opportunity to the

assessee to prove that the deposits are accounted for and declared as the

assessees own income or income of some other persons by submitting proof of

identity of such other persons, creditworthiness of the such persons, business

operation carried out and that the transaction is genuinely carried out by such

other person. In the case the said amounts explained, the same would be are

amounts would be reduced from the aggregate amount of unexplained bank

deposits and taxed on protective basis in respective year or years. 10. The assessee has challenged 263 orders passed by the CIT, for all the
assessment years before the ITAT. The ITAT Mumbai 'A' Bench in IT(SS)A No.
30/Mum/2011 for the assessment years 2001-02 to 2007-08 upheld the
revision order passed by the CIT(A) and dismissed appeals filed by the
assessee. The relevant portion of the order of the ITAT, is reproduced as
under:- 11. In the meantime, the appeal filed by the assessee against the order
passed by the A.O u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 153A has been dismissed by the CIT(A). The
assessee carried the matter in further appeal before the ITAT. The ITAT
Mumbai 'A' Bench in ITA No. 4721 to 4726/Mum/2011 for assessment year
2001-02 to 2007-08 had dismissed the appeals filed by the assessee by
observing as under:- 12. In pursuance of the order of the CIT u/s 263 of the Act, the A.O issued

notice u/s 143(2) calling for various details from the assessee. In response to

show cause notice, the assessee's authorized representative appeared and

submitted the details, as called for. The assessee more or less reiterated its

submissions made before the A.O at the time of original assessment u/s 143(3)

r.w.s. 153 A of the Act . The assessee also filed confirmation from certain

persons stating that some of the concerns bank accounts considered as

dummy concerns operated by the assessee in his own name are in fact

operated and controlled by them and the bank accounts were considered in

their income-tax returns filed for the respective assessment years. The

assessee also filed copies of I.T. returns of few persons and claimed that those 18 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

assessees have considered the bank accounts in their Income tax returns for

the respective assessment years. 13. The A.O, after considering the explanation of the assessee, observed

that the assessee has not discharged his onus of proving the identity,

genuineness and creditworthiness of any of these transactions pertaining to

sum total found credited in the bank accounts operated in various entities

name of Rs.1388.09 crores. Though the assessee has simply relied on the stand

that some parties were produced during the original assessment proceedings

or that certain annual account and copies of I.T. returns have been submitted

in some cases, it however does not discharge the onus of proving the credits

found in the bank accounts. The A.O further observed that the assessee has

merely made his submissions which were made even at the time of original

assessment proceedings and have been rejected there itself without any

further corroborative evidence to explain the credits found in the bank

accounts. The A.O further observed that the purpose of the present

proceedings is merely to make fresh assessment only with respect to the

deposit in the bank accounts and hence, the assessee is having an obligation to

discharge his onus by furnishing identity, genuineness, and creditworthiness of

the transactions. Since, the assessee has failed to file any evidence to explain

the credits found in the bank accounts, the AO completed the assessment by 19 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

treating 50% of total unexplained bank credits of Rs.1388.09 crores and

divided it amongst the assessment years 2001-02 to 2007-08, as per the actual

credits found in the respective years and added in the hands of the assessee as

unexplained cash deposit u/s 68 of the Act. 14. In so far as sale bills issued in the name of M/s Varun Industries Ltd.

amounting to Rs. 856,64,49,533/- the A.O added total amount of sales bills

issued in the name of M/s Varun Industries Ltd as unexplained income of the

assessee on protective basis. Further 50% of the commission income @2% of

total sales bills issued in the name of M/s Varun Industries Ltd has been added

in the hands of the assessee. Insofar as commission on total bank credits, the

A.O has added 2% commission and total bank credits of Rs.1388.09 crore and

divided equally among the assessee and Shri Atul Sanghvi and spread it over

the assessment year 2001-02 to 2007-08 on the basis of unexplained bank

credits found for the respective assessment years. However, further observed

that in case the assessee is to be granted relief in the appellate stages on the

unexplained bank credits, the assessee would still have to be treated as bogus

bill provider and income at 2% of the said bank deposits need to be treated as

earned for providing and facilitating the said bills, would survive. The other

additions made in the course of regular assessment remain untouched in toto

and added under same heads of income. Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi 15. Aggrieved by the assessment orders, the assessee has preferred appeals

before the CIT(A). Before the CIT(A), the assessee has taken a legal plea by

raising the ground challenging the common order passed by the A.O for the

assessment years 2001-02 to 2007-08, by stating that the assessing officer was

erred in passing a consolidate assessment order for all seven assessment years,

ignoring the statutory provisions and the requirement thereof. The assessee

also challenged each and every additions made by the A.O. The assessee has

filed written submissions and contended that the A.O was erred in treating him

as hawala operator involved in providing accommodation entries ignoring all

the evidences filed by him to prove that he is registered commission agent in

the market involved in the business to facilitate sales and purchase of various

entities by selling goods. The assessee also challenged additions made by the

A.O towards total sum found credited in the bank accounts of various

individuals. The assessee submitted that the bank accounts found and seized

during the course of search are in fact belong to entities manufacturing goods

which are kept in his custody for easy facilitations and business therefore, the

same cannot be considered as his own documents used for issuing bogus bills.

The assessee further submitted that insofar as estimation of commission of

total sales bills in the name of M/s Varun Industries Ltd and others and also

additions made towards total sales bills on protective basis, once he was 21 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

treated as bogus bills provider, and commission income is estimated on total

sales, additions cannot be made towards total sales bills on protective basis

when substantial additions has been made in the hands of persons receiving

the bills. The assessee further submitted that a substantial addition has been

made towards total value of sale bills found in the name of M/s Varun

industries Ltd; hence, and protective addition made in its hands, should be

deleted. As regards addition made towards bank credits, the assessee

submitted that the bank accounts found during the course of search are, in

fact, belong to some other persons and further, they have categorically

admitted before the A.O by filing confirmation letter and their I.T. returns,

therefore the A.O was erred in treating total sum found credited in the bank

account as his unexplained income. 16. The CIT(A) after considering the assessee's submissions and also taking

into account the facts of the case has observed that there is no merit in the

legal ground raised by the assessee challenging the validity of assessments, as

though the A.O has passed a consolidate order, the order passed by the A.O is

noticeably separate insofar as the additions / computation of total income are

concerned. The CIT(A) referring to the persons of Section 292B of the Act,

observed that no assessment made in pursuance of any of the provisions I.T.

Act , shall be invalid or shall be deemed to be invalid merely because on any 22 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

mistake, defect or omission in such assessment, if the said assessment in

substance and in effect is in conformity with or according to the intent and

purpose of the Income-tax Act . Admittedly, the ld A.O had issued separate

notice u/s 153A for all the years and it was only for the sake of brevity and

consolidation of the fact that one single order was passed, though manifestly

additions for all the assessment years have been made separately and

computation of income for each year has been done separately. Therefore,

there is no doubt that the intent and purpose of passing of such an order is, in

substance and effect, in conformity with the intent of the I.T. Act and squarely

covered u/s 292B of the I.T. Act, even if a hyper technical plea has arisen that

there should be a separate order for each year on individual sheets of paper.

Accordingly the legal ground raised by the assessee has been dismissed. 17. Insofar as other ground of appeal challenging additions made by the A.O

towards sales bills raised in the name of M/s Varun Industries Ltd. and

estimation of commission on sales bills, additions towards unexplained bank

credits, the CIT(A) for the detailed reasons recorded in this order dated 24-07-

2012observed as under:- From the facts of the case, it is apparent that appellant was
 found in possession of several bank accounts and other 23 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

related documents of fictitious persons and a large number
of sale bills issued to various concerns including those of
M/s.Varun Ind. Ltd. were found alongwith a number of
cheque books and bank lips. Evidence was also found of
tampering of documents such as PAN cards by substitution
of names and photographs. In one of such case, same
person's p hoto was used in t hree differen t bank
accounts in t hre e different names. Thus, it cannot be said that
appellant was not indulged in the business of issuance of boqus bills. By
making a mere averment that he was not involved in such activity in
spite of a host of such evidence found in his possession would not cut
much ice and cannot lead to an inference which the appellant
wants the revenue authorities to hold. In view of the above
facts there is not even of iota of truth in the pleadings made
by the appellant and hence ground No 3 is dismissed. 2.7.1 Ground No.4 relates to making of protective assessment of
Ps.35,46,36,038/- on account of sales made to M/s. Varun Inds. Ltd.
The only plea which has been made by the appellant is that
because a substantive addition has been made in the hands of M/s.
Varun Ind. Ltd., the protective assessment in the hands of the
appellant, would not survive. It is true that a substantive addition has
now been made in the hands M/s Varun Ind. Ltd., but as long as
the issue has not attained finality, on facts and in law, it
cannot be said that the protective assessment in the hands of
the appellant is wrong because the very basis of making a
protective assessment is to protect the interest of revenue which
even the appellant has not denied. Only if the substantive addition
made in the hands of M/s. Varun Ind. Ltd. survives all possible rounds
of litigation and attains a finality, would the appellant be
documents relieved of its liability. It is a stated position that- documents
relating to various bogus bank accounts and dummy accounts
alongwith PAN cards and other documents were seized from the
appellants premises suggesting that he was engaged in a scam of
mammoth proportion in the steel market and therefore, 1 do
not find any infirmity in the order of the Ld. A.O. in makinq a
protective assessment in the hands of appellant's hands. Hence, for
the purpose of deciding this appeal, addition made by the Ld.
A.O. is confirmed. Nevertheless, the appellant shall be
entitled to a relief if the substantive addition made in the 24 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

hands of M/s.Varun Inds. Ltd. is confirmed after all rounds of
litigation. 2.8.1 Ground Nos. 5 & 6 relate to addition on account of
commission 2% on bogus sales made. During the course of
search, it was found that the appellant was in possession of
signed cheque books and other related documents such as PAN
card etc. of various entities and when he was asked to produce
the persons, the appellant was unable to produce them.
Although, the appellant is stated to have filed certain
confirmations, the Ld. A.O. was not satisfied with the same and
he informed the appellant to produce the parties for
verification of their existence as well as for carrying on of business
relating to the sale bills found from the appellant's
possession. As per the original assessment order framed
by the Ld. AC. and which appears as an attachment to the
impugned Assessment order pending adjudication before me,
Ld. A.O. has pointed out that none of the parties except one had
filed his/its return of income and therefore nothing turns on
the fact that some of the parties were produced before him
during the course of original assessment. Ld. A.O. has further
pointed out that the parties had not been able to establish with any
documentary evidence regarding delivery of manufactured
goods to different parties and no books of accounts were
produced before him for verification. According t o t h e L d .
A.O., entries in various books of accounts remained
unexplained and therefore appellant's version that
t h e v a r i o u s entities/persons were carrying out genuine
business activities remained unsubstantiated. 2.8.2 The same facts have been reiterated by the Ld. A.O. during
the assessment framed which has been appealed against before me.

2.8.3 The Ld. A .R. in his submission has dealt with
ground Nos. 5 to 8 together, as according to him, the some
are interlinked. According to him, the appellant is .a
commission agent in the metal market where the rate of
commission is not fixed and varies between 0.02% to 0.05
%. H o w e v e r , t h e r e i s n o w r i t t e n a g r e e m e n t e n t e r e d i n t o 25 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

b e t w e e n commission agent and the clients. Even in the
grounds of appeal, the appellant has mentioned that the
prevailing commission rate in the steel market ranges
between 0.02% to 0.05%. Thus, there is no denying the fact
that the appellant earns commission and the services
rendered by him. It is also a matter of fact that during
the course of search, the appellant was found in the
possession of signed blank cheques, sale bills issued by
various dummy companies which went on to prove that the
appellant was engaged in issuing bogus bills and therefore
it is obvious that the normal rate of commission would not
be charged by him to the perspective bill seekers. The persons
using these bills would be saving substantial amount of tax by
claiming bogus deduction. They would be happy to part with at
least 2%, an estimation which cannot be stated to be out of sync
with the benefit earned by the bill seekers. Therefore, as far as
commission of 2% estimated by the Ld. A.O. is concerned not find
any fault with the same and accordingly ground Nos. 5&6 are
confirmed. 2.9.1 As regards ground Nos.7 & 8 they are in
r e s p e c t o f additions made on account of cash deposits in the
bank account of the persons other than the appellant which were
found from the possession of the appellant during the course
of search along with signed bank cheques, sale bills, PAN cards
etc. and which remained unexplained by the appellant despite
giving substantial opportunities. Ld.A.0., on the basis of
directions issued to him u/s.263 has framed denovo assessment
and in doing so he provided adequate opportunities to the
appellant for submitting proof of identity, creditworthiness of
such persons and the business operations claimed to have been
carried out by them alongwith genuineness of the same. During the
years under appeal, the bank credits total to
Rs.13,88,09,01,411/-, the source of which was to be
explained by the appellant alongwith necessary documents. The
appellant submitted before the Ld. A.O that these credits were
found in the bank account of persons other than the
appellant and hence the credits appearing in those accounts
could not be attributed to the appellant's business or
profession. He further asserted before the Ld. A.O. that the appellant 26 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

 worked as agents for purchases in respect of some of their seller
 principals and in order to facilitate the transactions for
 such principals, especially purchase transactions where
 prompt and in time p a ym e n t s w e r e o f u t m o s t
 s i g n i f i c a nc e , s i g n e d c h e q u e b o o k s d u l y signed by third
 parties were kept with the appellant in confidence. In view
 of the above facts, it was pleaded that the bank accounts
 found during the course of search at the appellant's premises
 were not benami accounts and th e signed che que books
 were kept onl y to facilita te smooth trade. 2.9.2 Ld. A.O. was not satisfied with the submissions
 m a d e a n d for the following reasons he made the addition in
 the various assessment years pertaining to the search: of the assessee. The initial burden is on the assessee to explain the
 source" of the credit and to do so, the assessee is required to
 prove (a) Identity of the shareholder; (b) genuineness of
 transaction; and (c) credit worthiness of shareholder..." 5. Once it has been proven that the assessee is indulging in
 providing bogus bilk and more so he has not discharged his onus
 of neither proving the identity, genuineness and creditworthiness of
 these transactions nor disclosed the names of the beneficiaries his
 conduct, he is not providing the details of the persons in whose
 hands the transactions may be examined or added substantively. 6. Under the given circumstances, the only recourse left to this office is
 to proceed on making the assessment on the basis of the
 instructions of the Hon'ble CIT as mentioned in the order
 passed u/s. 263 of the I.T Act i.e. by adding the said bank deposits
 amounting to Ps. 1,388.09 crores substantively in the hands of
 the two persons to divide proportionately as per, he share of
 his profits in the said business. 7. It would be pertinent to mention here that since the said
 deposits are being added substantively, the commission income 2%
 shall not be added further on these deposits. However in case the
 assessee is to be granted relief in the appellate stages on this
 addition, he would still have to be treated as a biller and income @
 2% of the said bank deposits being commission earned for providing
 and facilitating the said bills would be eligible to be added in his
 hands proportionately as per the share of is profits in the said
 business. 2 . 9 . 3 I h a v e c o n s i d e r e d t h e r i v a l s u b m i s s i o ns a n d a f l e r
 p e r u s i n g the record, I am completely in agreement with the view
 taken by the Ld. A.O. that the appellant was engaged in issuing bogus
 bills and for that purpose he was maintaining benami bank accounts
 in the names of different persons, dummy or existing. Further,
 the appellant was engaged in such transactions and earned
 substantial commission on the same. To me it appears to be a pure
 case of money laundering and nothing else as the appellant
 despite being given a number of opportunities failed to produce 28 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

all the parties in whose names the bank accounts were being
maintained and the letters issued by the Ld. A.O. from time to
time to these parties at the addresses mentioned were returned
back unserved. Even the parties who were produced before the
Ld. AG. did not file any return of income except in one solitary
instance and no books of accounts or other documents were
produced to substantiate the claim made by the appellant and his
witnesses that they carried out independent identifiable genuine
business. That being the case, it can be safely presumed that the
onus which was cast on the appellant to substantiate the claim made
was not discharged and therefore no fault can be found with the
action token by the Ld. A.O. in bringing to tax the amounts as in
the assessment order. The case laws cited by Id. A.1. are
distinguishable on facts as none of them deal with hawala
racket. 2.9.4 Even as per the statement of Shri Pradeep M.
J o b a l i a recorded on 8.3.2007 having office at Podar Chambers,
Ground flr Parsi Bazar St., Fort, Mumbai 400001, it is apparent
that his office address was being used by the appellant for
receiving correspondence from bank Shri Jobaha in reply to
question No .2 clearly mentioned that he did not know any of
the parties and it was only Shri Dilip Chunhal Shah and Shri Atul
Amrutlal Sanghvi who were collecting the correspondence
apart from his office. Even in the cross examination of Shri
Jobalia done by Shri Atul Sanghvi and his Authorized
representative it was clear that none of the persons whose
correspondence address was given as that of Shri Jobalias office
had met Shri Jobalia and it was only Shri Atul Sanghvi who
used to visit Shri Jobalia's office with Shri Dilip C.Shah for
collecting the correspondence. Further, a sum of Rs.300/- was
given by Shri Atul A. Sanghvi to Shri Jobalia for each such
concern. Thus, itis c1&ir from the sequence of events that Shri
Atul A. Sanghvi and Shri Dilip C. Shah were master mind behind
maintaining of the fictitious bank accounts for which different
address were given. Similar statements were also recorded of
Shri Vinodumar Uttamial Shah on 21.3.2007, and Shri N.V.
Neelakantan on 26.02.2007 where it was confirmed that various
accounts were operated/handled by Shri Atul A. Sanghvi and Shri
Dilip C. Shah Former introduced one Shri 5andeep Poonamchand 29 Dilip Shah / Atul Sanghvi

Shah at the behest ofShrlAtFAT3ngh . vi for oenIna bank
account. It is important to note that the photograph appearing
in the account opening form of Shri Sandeep Poonamchand Shah
with Bank of Maharashtra Jhaveri Branch was also appearing in three
different names and all the cheque books pertaining to the
same have been found from the possession of Shri Atul Sanghvi
and Shri dilip C. Shah. Shri Neelkantan was working with
National Co-operative Bank, Fort Branch and he stated that a
number of accounts were being operated by Shri Atul A.
Sanghvi and Shri bilip C. Shah in various branches including
his branch and that these accounts were never operated by
any person other than Shri Atul A. Sanghvi and Shri Dilip C. Shah.
All the cheques in these accounts were deposited by them and
the cheques for withdrawal or transfer were also submitted by them
further confirmed that accounts were never operated or
handled by the actual account holders. This statement was also
shown to Shri Atul A. Sanghvi and Shri Dilip C. Shah who
confirmed, during the course of cross examination, that the
statement was correct. Ld. A.Q. had discussed at length in the
original assessment the seized documents at para 11 thereof to
come to the following conclusion: