1. List revised. 2. Heard SriArvind Prabodh Dubey,learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Bade Lal Bind, learned counsel for the State and perused the material on record. 3. This bail application under Section 483 of B.N.S.S., 2023 has been filed by the applicant- Sikandar Sharma, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No. 313 of 2025, under Sections 69, 115(2), 352, 351(3) B.N.S., Police Station Gida, District Gorakhpur. 4. The first information report of the present matter was lodged on 18.05.2025 by Krishna Chandra Maurya, against the applicant alleging therein that his daughter is aged about 18 years. She used to talk to the applicant on Instagram. The applicant one day called her at Sahjanwa Zero Point near a hotel to meet him in the last week of December 2024. When she reached there he took her in a room of hotel and applied vermilion on her of which a staff of the hotel made a video and then established physical relationship without her consent. He threatened her of not telling it to anyone. On the strength of the said video he used to blackmail her. On 16.05.2025 he again called her in the same hotel and committed rape upon her and was pressurizing her to elope with him. She refused it and then she was assaulted. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that on the own showing of the informant the victim is a major girl. It is submitted that the first incident of rape in the hotel is of December 2024 but the first information report has been lodged after about 06 months of the same. It is submitted that as such the incident was not reported by the victim or anyone of her family to any of the authority. It is submitted that the victim is a major girl. She went with to the hotel twice out of her own sweet-will. It is submitted that the present case is a case of consent. While placing paragraph 11 of the affidavit it is submitted that the investigation in the matter has concluded and charge-sheet has been submitted. The applicant has no criminal history as stated in para 19 of the affidavit and is in jail since 19.05.2025. 6. Per contra, learned counsel for the State opposed the prayer for bail. 7. After having heard learned counsel for the parties and perusing the record, it is evident that the victim is a major girl. The first incident of rape in the hotel is of December 2024 but the first information report has been lodged after about 06 months of the same. The investigation in the matter has concluded and charge-sheet has been submitted. 8. Looking to the facts and circumstances of this case, the nature of evidence and also the absence of any convincing material to indicate the possibility of tampering with the evidence, this Court is of the view that the applicant may be enlarged on bail. 9. Let the applicant- Sikandar Sharma, be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on furnishing a personal bond and two suretieseach in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice:- 10. The identity, status and residential proof of sureties will be verified by court concerned and in case of breach of any of the conditions mentioned above, court concerned will be at liberty to cancel the bail and send the applicant to prison. 11. The bail application is allowed. 12. Pending application (s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Order Date :- 13.8.2025
 
AS Rathore
 
(Samit Gopal,J.)