(Per
: HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.M.KAPADIA) 1.	These
five Criminal Appeals, under Section 374 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure (?Sthe Code?? for short) are directed against the
judgment and order dated 19.08.2002 rendered in Sessions Case No. 67
of 2001 by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Court No.7,
Ahmedabad City, by which the Appellant of all these Appeals, who are
original Accused Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 respectively (A-1, A-2, A-4,
A-5, A-6, for short) are convicted for commission of offences
punishable under Sections 489A, 489B, 489C read with Section 120B of
the Indian Penal Code (?S IPC ?? for short), and all of them are
sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life and fine of Rs.3000/- i.d.
RI for 3 months for commission of the offence punishable under Section 489A IPC, imprisonment for life and fine of Rs.3000/- i.d.
RI for 3 months for commission of the offence under Section 489B IPC,
RI for 5 years and fine of Rs.1500/- i.d. RI for 1 ½ months
for the offence under Section 489C IPC and RI for 6 months and fine
of Rs.1000/- i.d. RI for 2 months for commission of the offence
punishable under Section 120B IPC. It is also ordered that all the
sentences, imposed upon the accused persons, shall run concurrently. 2.	The prosecution case
as disclosed from FIR and unfolded during trial is as under: PI, J.D.Chudasama, Dhananjay Waghela and D.H.Goswami and other police
personnel and informed them of the information so received and
directed R.C.Pathak, PI to summon panchas, and after arrival of the
panchas, the panchas were also informed about the information so
received, and their consent to act as panchas was also taken and
thereafter preliminary panchnama was prepared. It is also the case
of the prosecution that between 3:00 p.m. and 3:30 p.m., the
preliminary panchnama was prepared and at 3:30 p.m., all the police
officers along with the panchas left the office in a Government
vehicle and reached near Anjali Cinema, and after hiding the
vehicles, from the crossroad, they walked towards Dharnidhar Derasar
(Jain Temple) and after walking about 200 steps, all the persons got
scattered and took their position as decided earlier. PW-10, ACP,
had an information that Kavit Panchal was to come on that road on LML
Vespa Scooter bearing registration No. GJ-1-AA-871, and therefore,
all the persons were keeping vigil and the vehicles were checked,
during which time the aforesaid Scooter was seen coming from Anjali
Cinema towards Dharnidhar Derasar about 4:15 p.m., and on spotting
the said vehicle, by giving the signal to the members of the raiding
party, PW-10, ACP, and panchas cordoned the scooter driver. After
introducing himself, the name and address of the said Scooter driver
was inquired, who informed his name to be Kavit alias Kavindra
Panchal and on carrying out the search in the presence of the
panchas, from the pocket of his trouser one bundle of currency notes
of the denomination of Rs.500 was recovered and as the said person
had tucked his shirt inside his trouser, 6 bundles of currency notes
of the denomination of Rs.500 were recovered from a plastic bag and
said notes were found to be fake and the said fact was also stated by
the said person Kavit Panchal. These 800 notes and another cash of
Rs.205/-, one pager of Motorola Company and one Mobile phone were
also recovered from the person. An inquiry about the name and
address of the person from whom he had acquired the packet of
currency notes was made. Thereafter those currency notes were put in
a plastic bag and the plastic bag was sealed wherein a note
containing the signatures of the panchas was also kept. Seal of
Inspector of Police, DCB Crime, Ahmedabad City was affixed and the
Scooter, pager and mobile phone were also seized and a detailed
panchnama was made later on. The complaint was given by PW-1,
Devendragiri Himmatgiri Goswami, before R.C.Pathak, PI. 2.2. It is the further
case of the prosecution that on interrogation of A-1, Kavindra, he
had taken the police officials to Aastha Surgical Hospital at Vasna
Circle and showed a person to R.C.Pathak, PI and on inquiring the
name and address of the said person, he stated his name to be Manish
Dinkerrai Trivedi (A-2). On making inquiry from him, he took out a
bundle of currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500 from his
trouser and the same was seized for investigation and thereafter the
special room was also searched in presence of the panchas. It is
further case of the prosecution that on the strength of the
information received by the police officials, the members of the
raiding party raided Bungalow No. 3/A of Moti Sagar Society, Near
Shantivan on 2.12.2000 and in the passage of the lobby of the said
building, three persons were found enjoying liquor party and in the
drawing room two persons named Kishoresinh Jashwantji Jadeja (A-3)
and Kesrisinh Rathod (A-4), were present and they were informed by
R.C.Pathak, PI, about the arrest of A-1, Kavit Vishnu Panchal and
A-2, Manish Trivedi, with fake currency notes of the denomination of
Rs.500. During the course of the inquiry, A-4, Kesrisinh Rathod,
voluntarily took the raiding party to the first floor of his house
and by opening the cupboard of the personal room, took out 10 bundles
of currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500, containing 990 notes
 amounting to Rs.4,95,000/- were recovered. On carrying out the
search of the person of Kishoresinh, a mobile phone of Nokia Company
was also recovered but no other incriminating article was recovered
and the panchnama giving all the necessary details was prepared in
presence of panchas. An offence for consumption of liquor was also
registered. 2.3.		It is the further
case of the prosecution that during the course of investigation, A-5,
Noor Mohmed alias Yakub Saiyed, was arrested on 6.12.2000, A-6,
Shambhubhai Desai, was arrested on 10.12.2000 and Shambhubhai
voluntarily took out two bundles of fake currency notes of the
denomination of Rs.500 which were seized. 2.4.		A complaint for
the aforesaid incident was lodged by PW-1, Devendragiri M. Goswami,
at DCP Police Station, Ahmedabad against all the accused persons. 2.5.	During the course
of investigation, it was revealed that A-5, Noor Mohmed @ Bhaiyya and
the absconding accused Bhavsinh Rathod are convict prisoners
undergoing sentence at Central Jail, Sabarmati, Ahmedabad. Both of
them were taken to Civil Hospital for treatment. They met A-3,
Kishoresinh Jashwantsinh Jadeja, A-4, Kesrisinh @ Kishoresinh
Bhavsinh Rathod and the absconding accused Salim Noor Mohmed in Civil
Hospital, and hatched conspiracy to circulate fake currency notes of
the denomination of Rs.500. In furtherance of the conspiracy, the
absconding accused Salim Noor Mohmed obtained fake currency notes of
the denomination of Rs.500 and gave them to A-4, Kesrisinh @
Kishoresinh Bhavsinh Rathod and A-3, Kishoresinh Jadeja, who in turn
gave them to A-2, Manish Dinkerrai Trivedi, who in turn, gave the
same to A-1, Kavit and A-1, Kavit in turn gave the same to A-6,
Shambhubhai. During the course of investigation, the fake currency
notes recovered from the accused under the panchnama were sealed and
then sent to FSL for analysis. On receipt of FSL report indicating
that all the currency notes were fake and as incriminating evidence
was found against all the accused, charge sheet was filed against all
the accused persons for commission of the offences punishable under Sections 489-A , 489B , 489C read with Section 120B IPC in the Court of
learned Metropolitan Magistrate, Court No.11, Ahmedabad. 2.6.		As the offences
with which accused persons were charged are exclusively triable by
the Court of Sessions, the learned Metropolitan Magistrate committed
the case to the Sessions Court of Ahmedabad City. 2.7.		On committal, the
learned Additional Sessions Judge, Ahmedabad City, to whom the case
was made over for trial, framed charge against all the accused for
commission of the offences punishable under Sections 489A , 489B , 489C read with Section 120B IPC. All the accused persons pleaded not
guilty to the charge and claimed to be tried. Therefore, they were
put to trial by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Ahmedabad City
in Sessions Case No. 67 of 2001. 2.8.		In order to bring
home the charge levelled against the accused, the prosecution has
examined as many as 12 witnesses and relied upon their oral
testimonies, the details of which have been narrated in first part of
paragraph 2 of the impugned judgment and order. They are as under: If the confessional statements in the panchnamas cannot be
	admissible into the evidence in view of Sections 25 and 26 of the
	Indian Evidence Act, then nothing remains especially when the very
	same panchnamas have not been proved by the prosecution. (xvi)	The
	trial Court has wrongly taken the aid of Section 10 of the Indian
	Evidence Act to bring home the guilt of the accused but has very
	glaringly erred by not appreciating that the provisions of Section
	10 of the Indian Evidence Act cannot be taken recourse of if the
	accused are arrested. 3.1. In support of the
aforesaid contentions, they have relied upon two reported decisions
of the Supreme Court in the case of ( i) State (N.C.T. of
Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu , AIR 2005, SC, 3820 and (ii) State
of Gujarat v. Mohammed Atik and others, AIR 1998 SC 1686. 3.2.		On the aforesaid
premises, it is submitted that the impugned judgment and order is
against the evidence on record, therefore, the same deserves to be
quashed and set aside by acquitting all the accused of the offences
with which they were charged. They, therefore, urged to allow the
appeals. 3.3.		In the
alternative, it is submitted that if at all this Court comes to the
conclusion that fake currency notes were recovered from A-1, A-2,
A-4 and A-6, they may be convicted only for the offence punishable
under Section 489C, in that case, the maximum punishment prescribed
for commission of the offence under Section 489C is R.I. for 7 years
and fine, or both. In the instant case, for the offence punishable
under Section 489C, the trial Court has imposed RI of 5 years and
fine of Rs.1500/- i.d. RI for 1 ½ months, which has been
undergone by almost all the accused except Accused No.3. Therefore,
all the accused may be convicted for the offence punishable under Section 489C IPC and accordingly conviction recorded against all the
accused may be modified by acquitting them of the offences punishable
under Sections 489A and 489B IPC and convicting those accused from
whom fake currency notes were recovered for the offence punishable
under Section 489C. They urged to allow the appeals partly by
modifying the order of conviction and sentence. They, therefore,
urged to pass appropriate orders in this regard. 4.	In counter
submission, Mr. R.C.Kodekar, learned APP for respondent-State of
Gujarat, has contended that there is voluminous evidence against the
accused for commission of offences under Sections 489A, 489B, 489C
read with Section 120B IPC as A-5, Noor Mohammad and the absconding
accused Bhavsinh Rathod, when they were taken to Civil Hospital for
treatment, from Sabarmati Jail, hatched a conspiracy with A-3 and A-4
to process the fake currency notes and put them in circulation and
A-1, A-2, A-4 and others were caught red-handed with counterfeit
currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500 worth lakhs of rupees. 
It is also asserted by him that when A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 were found
with fake currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500, in bulk,
worth lacs of rupees, a presumption may arise under Section 3 of the
Evidence Act that they have knowingly performed the act of process
the counterfeiting of currency notes, received the fake currency
notes knowing fully well that those are fake currency notes and kept
possession with them and also circulated them from one accused to
another. A-5, Noor Mohmed is the master-mind of the conspiracy
though from him no currency notes were recovered. He and the
absconding accused Bhavsinh Rathod hatched a conspiracy with all the
accused persons to process the fake currency notes and put the same
in circulation. According to him, it is true that panchas have
turned hostile but the evidence of the police officers, who have no
axe to grind against the accused persons, is so glaring and of
sterling quality that the deficiency in the prosecution, if the
turning of panchas hostile can be called so, has paled into
insignificance. Therefore, there is no reason to discard the evidence
of the police officers. 4.1.		Mr. R.C.Kodekar,
learned APP has also pointed out that A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 were
found in possession of fake currency notes, which is proved by the
evidence of police officers and no plausible explanation is coming
from them as to where from they have obtained the fake currency
notes. Silence on the part of the accused in such circumstances
would by itself be a telling circumstance which would weigh against
them in the consideration of the prosecution evidence led against
them. According to him, prosecution has successfully established the
complicity of the accused for commission of the offences punishable
under Sections 489A, 489B, 489C read with Section 120B IPC. 4.2. In support of the
aforesaid contention, he has relied upon the decision of the Supreme
Court in the case of Ponnuswamy
v. State , 1995 Cr.L.J, page 2658. 4.3.		Mr. Kodekar,
learned APP, has also asserted that the offence of counterfeiting
currency notes is a crime against the Nation and it will affect the 
economy of the country adversely and, therefore, no leniency can be
shown against any of the accused persons. He has submitted that there
is no merit in the appeals filed by the accused and, therefore, same
deserve to be dismissed. He, therefore, urged to dismiss all the
appeals. 5.	This Court has
considered the submissions advanced by the learned advocates
appearing for the parties and perused the impugned judgment and
order. This Court has undertaken a compete and comprehensive
appreciation of all vital features of the case and the entire
evidence on record which is read and re-read by the learned advocates
for the parties with reference to broad and reasonable probabilities
of the case. In light of the caution sounded by the Supreme Court
while dealing with criminal appeals, this court has examined the
entire evidence on record for itself independently of the trial
Court and considered the arguments advanced on behalf of the accused
persons and infirmities pressed, scrupulously with a view to find out
as to whether the trial Court has rightly recorded the order of
conviction and sentence. 6.	In order to prove
that the currency notes recovered from A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 were
fake, the prosecution has examined and relied upon oral testimony of
P.W.12, Mayankkumar M. Jani, Scientific Officer, FSL, Ahmedabad,
Ex.78. He has, inter alia, testified that he has received 5 parcels, 
in sealed condition, for analysis. The said parcels contained
currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500. He has analyzed all
the currency notes and on analysis he found that all the currency
notes are fake. According to him, even the torn currency notes are
also found to be fake. He has produced a report in this regard,
which is at Ex.75. 7.	On a conjoint reading
of the oral testimony of P.W.12, Mayankkumar M. Jani, Ex.78 and FSL
report, Ex.75, it is clear that the currency notes recovered from
A-1, A-2, A-5 and A-6 were fake currency notes and thus the
prosecution has duly proved that the currency notes which were
recovered from A-1, A-2, A-5 and A-6 were fake. It may be noted that
even the learned advocates for the accused have also not disputed the
said aspect. However, this Court has just with a view to record its
satisfaction, examined this piece of evidence. 8.	This takes us to
examine as to whether the prosecution has proved, beyond reasonable
doubt, that A-5, Noor Mohmed and absconding accused Bhavsinh Rathod,
who were convict prisoners undergoing sentence at Central Jail,
Sabarmati, Ahmedabad, when they were taken to Civil Hospital for
treatment from Sabarmati Jail, A-3, Kishoresinh Jadeja, A-4,
Kesrisinh Rathod and absconding accused Salim Noor Mohmed met them in
the Civil Hospital and hatched conspiracy to process fake currency
notes of the denomination of Rs.500 and circulate the same. A-1, A-2,
A-4 and A-6 were found with fake currency notes when they were
intercepted and apprehended by the police officers. 8.1.	In this connection,
the prosecution has examined and relied upon the evidence of Police
Officers, i.e., P.W.1, Devendragiri M. Goswami, Ex.29, P.W.8,
Dhananjaysinh S. Waghela, Ex.49, P.W.10, Subhashbhai G. Trivedi,
Ex.57 and P.W.11, Rajeshkumar C. Pathak, Ex.66. All the above
witnesses were discharging their duties with the Crime Branch,
Ahmedabad City, at the relevant time. 9.	From amongst the
above named police officers, it would be relevant to first advert to
the evidence of P.W.11, RC Pathak, who was the investigating officer
and who was present from the very beginning and had taken active part
in the investigation till the filing of charge sheet. He was the
police officer who was present during the entire episode from 
receiving secret information with regard to the counterfeit currency
notes being carried by the accused, preparing panchnama, arresting of
accused and till the charge-sheet is filed before the competent
court. Therefore, it would be appropriate to discuss his evidence in
extenso. 9.1.		P.W.1, Rajeshkumar
C Pathak, Ex.66, has, inter alia, deposed that on 1.12.2000, he was
discharging duties as a Police Inspector, Crime Branch. On that day
he was present at his office when the then Assistant Police
Commissioner, Crime Branch, S.G. Trivedi, through a member of the
staff, had called him in his chamber at 14:30 hours. Immediately
after calling him, he had called PSI Goswami, PSI Waghela, PSI
Chudasama of the Crime Branch staff and other staff members viz.,
Madhusinh, Naarsinh, Ashokbhai, Shaileshbhai, etc., and had informed
all of them about the details of the secret information. He has
further deposed that the information that he had received was to the
effect that on that day in the evening, an individual named Kavit
alias Kavindra Vishnubhai Panchal, carrying counterfeit currency
notes of the denomination of Rs.500 in his possession was en route
Vasna going to come on the Anjali Cinema road and proceed towards
Dharnidhar Derasar on his LML Scooter No.GJ.1. AA.871 and was going
to circular those currency notes as genuine notes in the market.
After acquainting them regarding such information, a raid was
immediately planned and upon instructions being issued to him to call
panchas he had immediately sent the then Police Constable Bharatsinh
to call panchas and in a short time he had called the panchas
whereupon ACP Trivedi had acquainted the panchas with the secret
information received by them and they had shown willingness to act as
panchas. Thereafter they had searched each other in connection with
the raid and after due verification, a preliminary panchnama was
drawn from 15:00 to 15:30 hours. He has identified the signature of
the panchas as well as his signature below the 'before me'
endorsement in the panchnama Ex.67 and has stated that the same is in
the handwriting of his Crime Branch Writer Shaileshbhai. 9.2.		He has further
deposed that after preparing the preliminary panchnama, the members
of the raiding party ACP Trivedi, he, PSI Goswami, PSI Waghela,
Chudasama and from the staff members police Constables Ashok,
Shailesh, Madhubhai, Pravinbhai, Valji, Dhulabhai, Narsinh,
Vikramsinh and their driver Waghela as well as the two panchas set
out in two vehicles, one TATA Mobile and ASBG Gypsy for the purpose
of conducting raid. 9.3.		He has further
deposed that they went from Gaekwad Haveli and en route Jamalpur,
Vegetable Market, Sardar Bridge, Mahalaxmi Crossroads reached Anjali
Crossroads. On approaching near the place mentioned in the secret
information, they entrusted the vehicles to the drivers and all the
members of the raiding party along with the panchas proceeded on foot
from Anjali Crossroads to the road going towards Dharnidhar. 9.4.		He has further
deposed that when they had covered a distance of about 200 steps,
under ACP Trivedi's and his guidance, the members of the staff spread
out and positioned themselves at different places. He and ACP Trivedi
and the Panchas had stood on the left side of the road in such a
manner that they could clearly see the vehicles coming from Vasna
side. Under Trivedi's and his guidance all were instructed to
ascertain and check only the LML Scooters. 9.5.		He has further
deposed that in the meanwhile at 16:15 hours he had sighted a grey
coloured LML Scooter coming from the direction of Vasna via Anjali
crossroads to Dharnidhar, as he was ahead of everyone, he had become
alert to observe the number and hence, as soon as the scooter came
within a distance of 10 to 15 metres, as its number appeared to be
the number stated in the secret information i.e., GJ.1.AA. 871, ACP
Trivedi had alerted the staff members positioned nearby and through
gestures told them to stop it. In the meanwhile, he and Trivedi,
along with the panchas, had stopped the scooter on the left side of
the road and the members of the raiding party had also come close by
and they had also seen the number of the scooter, etc. After making
the scooterist get off the scooter, they had disclosed their
identities as well as that of the panchas and had informed him about
the secret information received by them saying that they had
information that he had counterfeit currency notes of the
denomination of Rs.500 and that there were panchas also. On asking
him to produce the same, he had taken out two bundles of currency
notes of the denomination of Rs.500 one from each of the two pockets
of his pant and produced the same. On making him take out part of the
shirt that he had tucked in his pant and ascertaining further through
the panchas, a plastic bag with six bundles of counterfeit currency
notes of the denomination of Rs.500 were found. The name of the said
individual was ascertained by asking his name in the presence of
panchas and he had stated that his name was Kavit alias Kavindra
Vishnubhai Panchal, resident of Sukruti Flat, Nehrunagar, Manekbaug.
On carrying out physical search of the individual, a pager of the
make of Motorola Company, a black-blue coloured Trium Mitsubishi
Company Mobile and a maroon coloured purse containing Rs.205/- in
genuine currency notes were found from the back pocket of his pant.
On counting the currency notes in the presence of panchas, the total
came to Rs.4 lakhs and a detailed panchnama was drawn after
ascertaining the series-wise numbers. The panchas had counted the
currency notes and verified the same. He has further stated that in 
view of the repeated instructions of the Reserve Bank, they knew the
distinction between a genuine and counterfeit currency note and on
the spot itself they knew that the currency notes were counterfeit.
Hence, to seal the said bundles of currency notes and seize them on
the spot, the bundles of currency notes were placed on a board and by
using a plastic bag it was made like a parcel and fully secured with
a string. On the inner side, slips bearing the signatures of the
panchas as well as his signature were placed and similar slip was
placed outside and a seal of Inspector of Police, DCB Crime,
Ahmedabad City was affixed thereon and from the spot itself he had
talked to the PSO on his mobile and ascertained the Crime Register
number from the very beginning and noting to that effect is borne out
from the slips which bear the signatures of the panchas. The mobile
phone, Motorola Company pager, currency notes of Rs.205/- telephone
diary and the scooter No. GJ.1.AA.871 used in the commission of the
offence were seized by drawing panchnama. The panchnama had been
written by their writer Shaileshbhai as stated by the panchas, and he
had signed the same which has been produced vide Ex.67. This
panchnama was completed at 20:30 hours and considering the
seriousness of the crime, Kavit alias Kavindra Panchal who had been
apprehended on the spot, was arrested there and then in connection
with the offence and under the instructions of ACP Trivedi, PSI, DH
Goswami had lodged the complaint before him. The said complaint has
been produced vide Ex.30 wherein he had signed below the 'before me'
endorsement. The same bears the signature of DH Goswami as the
complainant. 9.6.		He has further
deposed that in view of the secret information, it appeared that it
is possible to uncover a large number of counterfeit currency notes
and hence Kavit was interrogated on the spot and in connection with
the same, he had disclosed the names of other individuals in
connection with the counterfeit currency notes of the denomination of
Rs.500 whereby the curtain had been raised from the offence.
Therefore, in view of the provisions of Section 120B IPC read with Section 10 of the Evidence Act, as one conspirator was disclosing
information regarding another conspirator, then to reach the other
conspirator the accompanying PSI Waghela was straight away sent from
the spot along with the seized muddamal, the complaint, as well as
a yadi issued to the PSO to the office of the Crime Branch for
registration of the offence whereas as the arrested accused Kavit
alias Kavindra willingly offered to show the place where the
remaining bulk of currency was, he, ACP Trivedi, Goswami and other
members of the staff had gone with him to the Aastha Hospital near
Vasna crossroads where one Manish Dinkerrai Trivedi was undergoing
treatment on the second floor of the hospital. They had also brought
along the earlier panchas and disclosed their identity and that of
the panchas to said Manish and asked him about his having
counterfeit currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500 whereupon
from the hospital room where he was admitted, said Manish took out a
bundle of counterfeit currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500
from the pocket of the pant that he was wearing and produced the
same. The said notes also appeared to be counterfeit as compared to
genuine notes on the basis of the colour and design. The said notes
were counted and they were found to be 100 notes amounting to
Rs.50,000/- The said notes were counted in the presence of panchas
and the serial numbers were verified and the bundle of counterfeit
notes was placed on a cardboard and placed in a plastic bag wherein a
slip bearing signatures of the panchas as well as his signature was
placed and a similar slip as placed in the plastic bag was affixed on
the bundle which was properly secured with a string and after
affixing the seal of the the Inspector of Police, DCB Ahmedabad City
on it, the same was seized. The said panchnama was completed at 23:50
hours on 1.12.2000 and the accused was arrested while he was
undergoing treatment and a Police Sub Inspector and other persons
were deputed to keep strict watch over him. He has identified the
handwriting on the panchnama Ex.68 to be that of his writer
Vikramsinh and has stated that the same was recorded as stated by the
panchas and that the contents thereof were true. He has also
identified his signature as well as that of the panchas thereon. 9.7.		He has further
deposed that upon asking said Manish his name and address in the
presence of panchas, he had stated that his name was Manish Dinkerrai
Trivedi, resident of Harihar Society, Vasna, Ahmedabad. He has
produced the report Ex.69 whereby the complaint had been forwarded
for registering the offence through Waghela and stated that the same
was in the handwriting of Police Constable Shailesh. He has admitted
the contents of the report and his signature thereon. Said Manish
Dinkerrai Trivedi was interrogated on the spot whereupon he gave
details of the remaining currency notes which revealed that he had
received he said currency notes a few days ago from another accused
at Motinagar Society at Shantivan and, therefore, the raiding party
went directly from Aastha Hospital to the place disclosed by Manish
and upon reaching there, they called two panchas from Shantivan. He
himself had called the panchas and had acquainted them with the facts
in connection with the raid and their consent to act as panchas was
obtained. Thereafter, all the members of the raiding party along with
the panchas had reached the residential premises of Kesrisinh alias
Kishoresinh Bhavsinh Rathod at Bungalow No.3, Motisagar Society at
0:30 hours on 2.12.2000 where around three persons were sitting in
the lobby of the house and were enjoying a liquor party. In order to
see that separate proceedings are initiated against them, ACP Trivedi
had entrusted this work to PSI Waghela. All the members of the
raiding party along with him, opened the inner door and entered
inside along with the panchas and firstly disclosed their identities
as well as that of the panchas to the two persons who were sitting on
the sofa in the drawing room and informed them that they had come
there with the purpose of carrying out a raid in connection with
counterfeit currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500. Upon asking
their names and addresses, one person said that his name is
Kishoresinh Bhavsinh Rathod alias Kesrisinh whereas the other person
said that his name was Kishoresinh Jadeja, resident of Moti Khadoi,
Taluka Anjar, District Kutch. On informing that this was a Crime
Branch raid in connection with stock of counterfeit currency notes
and on calling upon them to produce such stock, Kishoresinh Bhavsinh
Rathod took the members of the raiding party along with the panchas
to the upper part of this house and from the safe in his bedroom took
out ten bundles of counterfeit currency notes of the denomination of
Rs.500 from a plastic bag and produced the same. On verifying under
the light, the series on those currency notes were close to the
series of the notes seized earlier and the colour and design and
embossed mark of the said currency notes appeared to be different
than genuine notes and hence they were sure that the said currency
notes were counterfeit currency notes. When counted in the presence
of panchas, the bundles were found to consist of in all counterfeit
currency notes amounting to four lakhs and ninety-five thousand
rupees. All the said notes were carefully counted along with the
serial numbers and then placed on a cardboard and a slip bearing the
signatures of the panchas as well as his signature was placed on
them and a parcel was made by packing the same in a plastic bag and
slip bearing the signatures of the panchas was placed on the same and
after firmly securing the parcel with a string, a seal of Inspector
of Police DCB Ahmedabad City was affixed on the same. Further, on
carrying out physical search, a Nokia mobile phone was seized from
Kishoresinh Bhavsinh Rathod. He had also produced proof of residence
in the form of ration card and electricity bill, which are also
seized. The electricity bill was in the name of Kishoresinh Rathod's
mother whereas the ration card had the names of his family members.
The said panchnama was completed at 06:00 in the morning and was
produced vide Ex.70. He has further deposed that the same was in the
handwriting of his writer Vikramsinh and the same had been recorded
as stated by the panchas. He has further deposed that the panchas
have signed in his presence and he has signed below the 'before me'
endorsement. 9.8.		He has further
deposed that the plastic bag from which Kishoresinh Rathod had
produced the counterfeit currency notes had the markings of Kutch
Anjar and the same was also seized in connection with the
investigation of this offence. Both the aforesaid Kesrisinh alias
Kishoresinh Bhavsinh Rathod and Kishoresinh Jashwantsinh Jadeja were
arrested at 06:05 and 06:15 hours respectively. After arresting the
accused, the same were entered in the arrest register for the purpose
of investigation. MOB record was prepared and as per the ruling of
the Supreme Court, their relatives were informed regarding their
arrest and the arrest memo form was signed in accordance with the
rules. Photographs were taken for preparing the charge sheet in
connection with the offence. As during the course of investigation it
had been revealed that the offence was of immense importance and
serious in nature as well as was one which would have the effect of
disrupting the economy of the country, the higher officer had been
informed regarding the same. 9.9.		He has further
deposed that as he was the investigating officer, he had obtained
remand in connection with the offence. During remand, accused Kavit
alias Kavindra Vishnubhai Panchal had during the course of
interrogation, revealed further details regarding the remaining bulk
of counterfeit currency notes and hence in the presence of panchas, a
preliminary panchnama was drawn as stated by them and taking them
along, A-6, Shambhubhai Nagjibhai Desai was arrested in connection
with the offence on 10.12.2000 at 16:15 hours. As the said accused
had shown willingness to disclose details regarding the counterfeit
currency notes in his possession in the presence of panchas, two
panchas were called at the Crime Branch. For making a discovery
panchnama under Section 27 of the Evidence Act as disclosed by the
arrested accused, a preliminary panchnama was drawn from 18:00 to
18:20 hours on 10.12.2000 and in continuation of said panchnama as
shown by the accused, they had proceeded from the Crime Branch Office
and en route Gaekwad Haveli, Bhadrakali Temple, Nehru Bridge,
Usmanpura, AEC Office Naranpura Zone, Ghatlodia reached his
residence at 177 Hirabaug Society. Inside his residential house, he
had gone ahead and from the loft of the toilet in the inner room, he
had taken out a tin trunk and produced a bundle of notes of the
denomination of Rs.500 from under the clothes. The said notes were
also different from genuine currency notes in terms of colour, design
and embossing and hence it was clear that the same were counterfeit.
The other bundle produced along with it also had similar counterfeit
currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500. Along with the
aforesaid he had also produced torn pieces of counterfeit currency
notes of the same series. There were 40 pieces of counterfeit
currency notes of the same series. On counting the intact counterfeit
currency notes in the presence of panchas, the same amounted to
Rs.72,000/- The said currency notes were properly scrutinized on the
spot, in the presence of panchas and after counting them and checking
their serial numbers, complete details were recorded in the panchnama
and the bundles of counterfeit currency notes were placed on a
cardboard and a slip bearing the signatures of the panchas was placed
thereon and the same was then placed in a plastic bag and a slip
bearing the signatures of the panchas was placed on it and the same
was fully secured by tying a string around it and a seal of Inspector
of Police, DCB Ahmedabad City was affixed thereon and the entire
muddamal was seized. The panchnama was completed at 20:45 hours. The
panchnama is produced by him and the same has been exhibited vide
Ex.71 along with objection. He has further deposed that during the
course of investigation, on obtaining details as to the source of the
counterfeit currency notes, it has come to light that Bhavsinh
Rathod had been serving sentence at the Sabarmati Jail at Ahmedabad
as well as Noor Mohmed alias Bhaiyya Yakubbhai Saiyed had earlier
been arrested on several occasions in connection with offences
pertaining to counterfeit currency notes and both of them were
lodged at Sabarmati Jail and Bhavsinh Rathod, who, while serving
sentence in connection with a Narcotics Case, had been shifted to
Sabarmati Jail on account of his ill-health and while he was serving
sentence there, accused Noor Mohmed alias Bhaiyya Yakubbhai Saiyed
who had been arrested in connection with an earlier anti-terrorist
case against the State of Gujarat involving counterfeit currency
notes of rupees eight lakhs was lodged at Sabarmati Jail as an
under-trial prisoner. Both Bhavsinh Rathod and Noor Mohmed Bhaiyya
belong to the same village Sami, District Patan, Mehsana and had
stayed in the hospital at Central Jail while undergoing treatment.
Moreover, to circulate the counterfeit currency notes of the
denomination of Rs.500, as planned by them, both had come at the same
time to the Civil Hospital from the Sabarmati Jail under the pretext
of undergoing treatment, a few days prior to the offence being
uncovered. And there, the accused, who had earlier been arrested in
connection with this offence, Kesrisinh alias Kishoresinh Bhavsinh
Rathod, Kishoresinh Jashwantsinh Jadeja and Salim, son of Noor
Mohmed Bhaiyya, had also gathered together at the Civil Hospital. In
order to ascertain the presence of Noor Mohmed Bhaiyya and Bhavsinh
Rathod in this regard, during the course of investigation, he had
obtained the jail record to produce the same as evidence, as under 10.	The prosecution has
thereafter examined and relied upon the evidence of P.W.1,
Devendragiri H. Goswami, PSI, DCB Crime, Ex.29. He is the police
officer who called panchas of the panchnama drawn on 1.12.2000,
between 15:00 to 15:30 hours. He has testified that P.W.10, Subhash
G. Trivedi had received the secret information with regard to A-1
coming with counterfeit currency notes on LML scooter. He has also
testified that the scooter of A-1 was intercepted and he was
arrested and during the search of the person of A-1, 8 bundles of
fake currency notes of denomination of Rs.500 were seized from him.
He has deposed that the above mentioned fake currency notes were
recovered in presence of RC Pathak, PI and in presence of panchas. He
is the police officer who has lodged the FIR. The said FIR is on
record at Ex.30. 11.	The prosecution has
thereafter examined and relied upon the evidence of P.W.8,
Dhananjaysinh S. Waghela, Ex.49. He was working as PSI at the
relevant time and he was a member of the raiding party. He has
deposed that fake currency notes of Rs.4 lakhs, pager of Motorola
Company, etc., were recovered from A-1. He has also deposed that from
A-2, Manish Trivedi, who was admitted to Aastha Hospital, Vasna,
during the course of search, fake currency notes of the denomination
of Rs.500 totalling to Rs.50,000/- were recovered in presence of
panchas and panchnama in this regard was prepared. He has further
testified that during further investigation of Manish, they have
received information about A-3 Kishoresinh Jashwantsinh Jadeja and
A-4, Kesrisinh alias Kishoresinh Bhavsinh Rathod and, therefore, they
were arrested and from A-4 fake currency notes of the denomination of
Rs.500 totalling to Rs.4,95,000/- were recovered in presence of
panchas and panchnama in this regard was also prepared. 12.	The prosecution has
thereafter examined and relied upon P.W.10, Subhash G. Trivedi,
Ex.57. He was working as ACP, DCB Crime. He has testified that on
1.12.2000 he has received the secret information that A-1 would be
coming with counterfeit currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500
and, therefore, he conveyed the said secret information to P.W.1,
P.W.8 and P.W.11 and thereafter he made necessary arrangement for
laying trap and in his presence A-1 was intercepted and apprehended
and from him fake currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500 were
recovered. 13.	It may be noted that
so far as P.W.1, Devendragiri H Goswami, Ex.29, P.W.8, Dhananjaysinh
S. Waghela, Ex.49 and P.W.10, Subhashbhai G. Trivedi, Ex.57 are
concerned, they have stated the role played by them and their
evidence is in consonance with the evidence of P.W.11, Rajeshkumar C.
Pathak, Ex.66, whose evidence we have discussed in great detail and
at length. Therefore, we deem it not necessary to refer to their
evidence elaborately. 14.	It is also required
to be noted that all the above four witnesses, who were members of
the raiding party and police officers working at DCB Crime Branch,
Ahmedabad City at the relevant time, were subjected to
cross-examination at length and in great detail by the learned
advocates of the accused. Lot many suggestions were put to them
suggesting that Subhash Trivedi has neither received any
information with regard to A-1 carrying fake currency notes of the
denomination of Rs.500 nor that A-5, Noor Mahmed alias Bhaiyya and
the absconding accused Bhavsinh Rathod are the convict prisoners
undergoing sentence at Central Jail, Sabarmati, Ahmedabad and that
both of them were taken to Civil Hospital for treatment from
Sabarmati Jail and that A-3, Kishoresinh Jashwantsinh Jadeja, A-4,
Kesrisinh alias Kishoresinh Bhavsinh Rathod and absconding accused
Salim Noor Mohmed met them in the Civil Hospital and hatched
conspiracy to circulate fake currency notes of the denomination of
Rs.500, nor any fake currency notes were recovered from A-1, A-2, A-4
and A-6. They have repelled all the suggestions. The learned advocate
of the accused tried his level best to get some piece of evidence in
favour of the accused from the cross-examination of these witnesses
so that it can be contended that the evidence of the above witnesses
cannot be relied upon and their evidence is impeachable. But all the
police witnesses withstood the test of cross-examination successfully
and nothing, even remotely suggesting, that the trap which was laid
on the basis of the secret information was bogus nor any fake
currency note was recovered from the above-mentioned accused persons. 15.	On reappreciation,
reanalysis, reevaluation and close scrutiny of the evidence of the
above four witnesses, there is no manner of doubt that the secret
information was received by P.W.10, Subhash Trivedi and on the basis
of the said secret information they entrapped A-1 and from him
information with regard to other accused persons was also received
and thereafter from A-2, A-4 and A-6, counterfeit currency notes of
the denomination of Rs.500 were recovered in huge quantity and,
therefore, under panchnamas those fake currency notes were seized and
sealed. In view of the
aforesaid evidence, it has to be held that A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 were
found with counterfeit currency notes of the denomination of Rs.500
and they were arrested by the police officers. 16.		By referring to the
evidence of P.W.2, Rushiraj B. Bhavsar, Ex.43, P.W.3, Arunbhai
Shantilal, Ex.44, P.W.4, Jayantilal K. Patel, Ex.45, P.W.5, Kiritbhai
B. Patel, Ex.46, P.W.6, Rajubhai L. Waghela, Ex.47, P.W.7, Nimesh C.
Shah, Ex.48 and P.W.9, Vinay B. Bharwad, Ex.51, who are panch
witnesses, in whose presence fake currency notes were recovered from
A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6, it is contended by the learned advocates of
the accused that they have turned hostile and have not supported the
prosecution case and, therefore, according to them, since independent
witnesses like the panch witnesses have turned hostile, the
prosecution has failed to establish the basic fact that the fake
currency notes were recovered from A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6. 16.1.	 We find the
aforesaid contention absolutely meritless. It is well settled by
catena of decisions of the Supreme Court that merely because the
panch witnesses do not support the case of the prosecution, the case
of the prosecution need not be thrown over-board as unreliable. It
may be realized that the phenomenon of panch witnesses turning
hostile to the prosecution is not unknown and is ever on the
increase. It needs hardly to be emphasised that the decision of a
case does not depend solely on the question whether the panch
witnesses support the prosecution or turn their back on it. If the
decision to the case were to depend solely on the testimony of panch
witnesses regardless of the evidence of the police officers, in
theory, it would be giving a right to veto to the panch as so far as
the question of culpability of an accused is concerned, which is not
permissible in criminal jurisprudence. It is well settled that
without good ground being pointed out, testimony of police officers,
if otherwise found to be true and dependable, cannot be discarded by
the court on the ground that they are police officers. On the facts
and in the circumstances of the case, this Court finds that the
testimonies of P.W.1, P.W.8, P.W.10 and P.W.11 not only inspire
confidence but get corroboration from the other evidence on record
and from the evidence of P.W.1, Devendragiri H. Goswami, Police
Officer, P.W.8, Dhananjaysinh S. Waghela, Police Officer, P.W.10,
Subhashbhai G. Trivedi, and P.W.11, Rajeshkumar C. Pathak, PI and
investigating officer, the contents of the panchnamas Exs.67, 68, 70
and 71 with respect to recovery of fake currency notes from A-1,
A-2, A-4 and A-6 respectively are proved. 16.2.	In view of the
aforesaid conclusion, according to us, the impact of the panchas
turning hostile pales into insignificance as the evidence of P.W.1,
DH Goswami, P.W.8, Dhananjaysinh S. Waghela, Ex.10, Subhashbhai G.
Trivedi and P.W.11, Rajeshkumar C. Pathak, who are police officers
and P.W.12, Mayankkumar M. Jani, Scientific Officer, FSL, Ahmedabad,
Ex.78, are of sterling quality inspiring confidence and, therefore,
their evidence can be relied upon to come to the conclusion that A-1,
A-2, A-4 and A-6 were found with fake currency notes when they were
intercepted and apprehended by the police officers. 17.		Having held that
A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 were found with fake currency notes, now the
question that arises for consideration of this court is as to what
offences they have committed? The prosecution case is that they have
committed the offences punishable under Sections 489A, 489B, 489C
read with Section 120B IPC as they hatched conspiracy to process fake
currency notes and also received and circulated the same from one
accused to another and they were also found with the fake currency
notes in their possession. 18.		For deciding this
question, it would be appropriate and advantageous to refer to Sections 489A , 489B and 489C IPC, which read as under: 19.		It has been held by
this Court that A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 were found with fake currency
notes. However, the question that requires to be considered by this
Court is whether the trial court has rightly convicted them for
commission of the offences under Sections 489A, 489B and 489C read
with Section 120B IPC? 20.	 So far as Section
489A IPC is concerned, it is a penal provision which provides that
whoever counterfeits, or knowingly performs any part of the process
of counterfeiting, any currency-note or bank-note, shall be punished
whereas Section 489B is a penal provision which provides that
whoever sells to, or buys or receives from, any other person, or
otherwise traffics in or uses as genuine, any forged or counterfeit
currency-note or bank-note, knowing or having reason to believe the
same to be forged or counterfeit, shall be punished and Section 489C
is a penal provision which provides that whoever has in his
possession any forged or counterfeit currency-note or bank note,
knowing or having reason to believe the same to be forged or
counterfeit and intending to use the same as genuine or that it may
be used as genuine, shall be punished. 20.1.		As per the
prosecution case, A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 are convicted with the help
of Section 120B IPC. Section 120B IPC deals with punishment of
criminal conspiracy. For the purpose of proving criminal conspiracy,
the prosecution must establish the following: To prove the criminal
conspiracy, the prosecution must establish that there was meeting of
minds between two persons to do an unlawful act. It is very difficult
to get direct evidence to prove criminal conspiracy and it can be
proved only by circumstantial evidence. However, it is not
sufficient in order to convict a person under this section, merely to
prove that he had been associating with the other accused at a
certain place and on his arrest endeavoured to extricate himself from
being accused of some thing connected with the conspiracy; and the
prosecution cannot complete what is necessary in order to show that
he was a person who concerted with others by proving that he was
friendly with the other accused and was anxious to escape observation
or even was doing his best to conceal his whereabouts. In cases
of conspiracy, the agreement between the conspirators cannot
generally be directly proved, but only inferred from the established
facts in the case. A conspiracy need not be established by evidence
of an actual agreement between the conspirators and overt acts raise
a presumption of an agreement and knowledge of the purpose of the
conspiracy. The connection has to be established with the conspiracy
and not with the separate acts of different conspirators which are
the overt acts of the different individuals in proof of the
conspiracy. Overt acts may properly be looked at as evidence of the
existence of a concerted intention and in many cases it is only by
means of overt acts that the existence of the conspiracy can be made
out. But the criminality of the conspiracy is independent of the
criminality of the overt act. To prove conspiracy it is not necessary
that there should be direct communication between each conspirer and
every other but the criminal design alleged must be common to all. 21.		The prosecution has
tried to justify framing of the charges under Sections 489A and 489B
read with Section 120B IPC and also the conviction recorded for the
said offences against the accused by contending that all the accused
made confessional statements before the police officers while they
were intercepted and apprehended and on the basis of the confessional
statements, the prosecution could find out the entire link of
circumstances and, therefore, the conviction recorded under Sections
489A , 489B and 489C IPC read with section 120B IPC is justified. 22.	 As per the learned
advocates of the accused, except the offence under Section 489C,
offences under Sections 489A and 489B IPC read with Section 120B IPC
is not proved. Except the confessional statements of the accused and
that too when they were in custody, there is no evidence to establish
that there was meeting of minds and the prosecution has failed to
establish that there was a meeting of minds prior to the hatching of
the conspiracy. 23.		On reappraisal of
the entire evidence of P.W.1, DH Goswami, P.W.8, DS Waghela, P.W.10,
SG Trivedi and P.W.11, RC Pathak, whose evidence has been discussed
at length in earlier paragraphs of this judgment, according to us,
there is no direct or circumstantial evidence against the accused to
establish that they have hatched criminal conspiracy or there was
meeting of minds prior to their hatching criminal conspiracy. It has
come from the statements of the accused that they have hatched
conspiracy but how far the statements of the accused when they were
in custody are relevant for convicting them for offence of criminal
conspiracy is to be looked into. In this connection, it would be
appropriate to refer to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case
of State of Gujarat v. Mohammed Atik and others , AIR 1998 SC
1686. In paragraph 17 of the above referred to reported decision, the
Supreme Court has observed as under: Therefore, the above submission of Mr. Kodekar cannot be accepted and
hence the same is rejected. 26.		In above paragraphs
of this judgment, we have dealt with the contentions raised by the
learned advocates of the accused in favour of the accused and the
contentions raised by Mr. Kodekar, learned APP supporting the
judgment and order of the trial Court. We have held that though
panchas have not supported the prosecution case, the evidence of the
police officers are of sterling quality and they inspired the
confidence of the Court and, therefore, their evidence can be the
basis for conviction of the accused. Though the prosecution could not
establish the source, base or the roots of counterfeiting of the
currency notes by producing any evidence, it could establish recovery
of fake currency notes from A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6. We have also held
that the prosecution could not establish the meeting of minds of A-1,
A-2, A-4 and A-6 and thus has failed to establish the offence of
criminal conspiracy as the prosecution has not been able to
establish the offence under Section 120B IPC by producing any valid
and acceptable evidence, except the confessional statements of the
accused and that too when they were in custody, which are not
admissible in evidence. Thus, from the entire evidence on record, the
prosecution has been able to establish, against A-1, A-2, A-4 and
A-6, only the offence punishable under Section 489C IPC and nothing
more. 26.1.	The contention of
the learned advocates of the accused that the incident has taken
place on 1.12.2002 and the muddamal has been sent to FSL on
28.12.2002 and in the meantime there is no evidence to suggest that
the muddamal was in safe custody and has not been tampered with and
no witnesses have been examined with respect to the same, cannot be
accepted simply because the evidence of the police personnel is of
sterling quality and we have observed herein above that their
evidence can be believed. Moreover, if one looks into the panchnamas
and the FSL report, etc., it would be clear that the serial numbers
of the fake currency notes recovered from the accused as noted in the
panchnamas and those which were sent to FSL for analysis and which
were analyzed by FSL are the same. The above contention of the
learned advocates of the accused cannot be accepted because prima
facie the currency notes recovered from the accused were counterfeit
currency notes and there was no reason for the police personnel to
tamper with the fake currency notes and in place of those fake
currency notes place other fake currency notes in the packet and
then send the same to FSL for analysis. Therefore, according to us, 
the above contention of the learned advocates of the accused has no
substance and merit and deserves to be rejected. 26.2.	So far as the
contention of the learned advocates of the accused that with respect
to the commission of offence under Section 489C IPC also, the entire
story put up by the prosecution against A-2 is not believable since
he was admitted in the hospital and had undergone a surgery on the
leg and it is highly unbelievable that A-2, though operated just a
day before, would be carrying the muddamal notes under his pant in
the hospital after his operation, cannot be accepted. It may be noted
that the learned advocates of the accused have not seriously
challenged the finding that fake currency notes were recovered from
A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6. Moreover, if the fake currency notes were with
A-2 prior to his getting admitted in the hospital, he would not have
dared to keep the same at his house because if he does not belong to
well off family, the family members would ask him as to where from he
has got such a huge amount. If he belongs to a well-to-do family and
leaves the fake currency notes at his house and goes to hospital for
remaining in the hospital for some days, it may happen that in his
absence some of his family members may take some notes from the
bundle and may purchase something by paying the fake currency notes
and in that event they may fall into deep waters, which A-2 would not
like in any case as he was sure that the muddamal notes are fake and
also knew better that if it is found out by any other person that
those notes are fake, the consequences that to follow. Therefore,
only option left to him was to carry the notes with him to hospital.
In hospital also, he could not have kept the fake currency notes in
the shelf because family members, relatives and friends may be
visiting him and even hospital staff would also be visiting his room
and if they find the same and identify the same as fake currency
notes in that case also, he will be in difficulty and, therefore,
the best option left to him was to keep the fake notes with him, just
near his body and that is why he has kept the fake currency notes
inside his pant. Therefore, the above contention of the learned
advocates of the accused, raised with a view to see that A-2 is
absolved from the charge of commission of offence under Section 489C IPC, has turned out to be of no help to A-2. 26.3.	The contention of
the learned advocates of the accused that A-6 has been found in
possession of certain torn muddamal currency notes and that too after
10 days and in this view of the matter also it is highly unbelievable
that a person would keep torn counterfeit currency notes with him
which would be of no use to him and, therefore, the prosecution case
cannot be believed, cannot be accepted. As discussed above, the
evidence of the police personnel is of sterling quality and there is
no doubt that fake currency notes were recovered from A-6 also. 26.4.	Though the
?Sbusiness?? in which A-6 was found involved is illegal, in such
illegal business also one has to maintain books of accounts. It may
not be like the books of accounts maintained by other businessmen who
are doing business legally but one has to keep some account either
in some diary or in computer or at some other place where from he can
find out the details about the fake currency notes which have come to
him. Since the prosecution has not been able to establish that the
fake currency notes are processed by the accused, only conclusion
that can be reached is that somehow the fake currency notes have come
to his possession. Such illegal business goes on, on the basis of
'trust' and not by way of signing any agreement. In respect of each
and every counterfeit currency note which comes to a person, there
shall have to be an account as to how many currency notes he has
received, how many he has given to some other person, how many are
torn or destroyed, so on and so forth and ultimately all the numbers
are to be tallied with the total number of fake currency notes
supplied to him. Therefore, if, for some reason, some counterfeit
currency notes are torn, he cannot throw them away because he is
accountable for the same. He has to show that they are torn because
of some reason and for that purpose he has to keep those torn pieces
and then only such notes are given deduction from his account. If
this was not the purpose of keeping the torn fake currency notes with
A-6, what else can be the reason for him to keep the torn notes with
him when they are of no use to him and he had all the chances to
destroy the same by burning, tearing them into tiny pieces, etc.,
because he was arrested ten days after A-1, Kavindra, was arrested
with fake currency notes? The reasons for tearing of the counterfeit
currency notes are myriad and only A-6 knows how those notes are
torn. May be the design, colours, etc., may not be as accurate as it
should have been and as expected by him and, therefore, he might have
torn them. Therefore, A-6 was supposed to give account for the fake
currency notes that reached to him through whatever source it may be
 and hence he had kept the torn counterfeit currency notes with him.
Therefore, this submission of the learned advocates of the accused
also cannot be accepted. 26.5.	It may also be
appreciated that in such illegal business, so many individuals are
involved, for instance, 'B' may be supplying fake currency notes to
'C' and 'C' may be giving such notes to 'D' and 'D' may be giving
such notes to 'E'. 'B' might have got the fake currency notes from
'A' but 'C' may not be knowing 'A'. Similarly, 'A' may not be knowing
'C' but 'B' knows 'A' and 'C' but he may not be knowing 'D'.
Therefore, in such a situation, if a link is cut off, i.e., 'B' or
'C' is cut off, the whole circumstances cannot be traced out and the
prosecution cannot reach to the root of the case and as discussed
above, in instant case, it is clear that some of the accused are
still absconding and certain persons are still wanted, and,
therefore, the prosecution could not establish as to from where the
fake currency notes have originated and who supplied the fake
currency notes to A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6. The fake currency notes
might have originated from within the territory of the country or
from outside the border. As pointed out above, there is no evidence
to show that A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 have processed the fake currency
notes and there is also no evidence to show that they have
circulated those fake currency notes, as genuine currency notes, in
public. Offence of criminal conspiracy is also not proved against
them. The only offence proved against them is the commission of
offence punishable under Section 489C IPC for possessing counterfeit
currency notes but wherefrom they have received the fake currency
notes is not established. 27.		On overall
reappraisal of the entire evidence as well as the case law and the
relevant penal provisions contained in IPC and the provisions
contained in the Indian Evidence Act , following points are culled
out: 28.		Seen in the above
context, the impugned judgment and order recorded by the trial Court
convicting and sentencing A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 for commission of
offences punishable under Sections 489A IPC and 489B IPC read with section 120B IPC deserves to be quashed and set aside by acquitting
all of them of the said charges whereas the order recorded by the
trial Court convicting and sentencing A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 for
commission of offence under Section 489C IPC deserves to be confirmed
and maintained. As per the penal provision of section 489C IPC, for
commission of offence under this Section, the accused shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both. Therefore, the
accused could have been convicted for a term which may extend to
seven years, or with fine, or with both. However, since the State of
Gujarat has not filed any appeal raising grounds that the punishment
imposed on the accused under Section 489C IPC is inadequate, we do
not deem it expedient to interfere with the sentence imposed by the
trial Court, which is RI for five years and fine of Rs.1500/- i.d.,
RI for 1 ½ months. 28.1.	Since A-5 was not
found with any counterfeit currency notes, conviction and sentence
recorded by the trial court against him for the offences under
Sections 489A, 489B, 489C read with Section 120B IPC deserves to be
quashed and set aside and the appeal filed by him deserves to be
allowed. 29.		For the foregoing
reasons, Criminal Appeal No. 868 of 2002 filed by A-5, Noor Mahmed
alias Bhaiyya Yakub Saiyed is allowed. The judgment and order of
conviction and sentence recorded by the trial Court against him for
the offences under Sections 489A, 489B and 489C read with Section
120B IPC is quashed and set aside. The jail authorities are directed
to release him from jail forthwith if his presence is not required in
connection with any other case. 29.1.	So far as Criminal
Appeal Nos. 747 of 2002, 744 of 2002, 862 of 2002 and 743 of 2002
filed by A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 respectively are concerned, they
succeed in part and accordingly they are partly allowed. The
judgment and order of conviction and sentence passed by the trial
Court convicting and sentencing A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 for commission
of offences punishable under Sections 489A and 489B read with Section
120B IPC is quashed and set aside and they are acquitted of the said
charges. 29.2.	 So far as A-1,
A-2, A-4 and A-6 are concerned, the judgment and order of conviction
and sentence recorded by the trial Court under Section 489C IPC is
hereby confirmed and maintained. 29.3.	 We have gone
through the jail remarks sheets produced by Mr. Kodekar, learned APP.
The jail authorities are directed that A-1, A-2, A-4 and A-6 shall be
released from jail forthwith, on their undergoing the sentence
imposed by the trial Court for commission of offence punishable under Section 489C IPC, if their presence is not required in connection
with any other case. 29.4.	With the above
observations and directions, all the above mentioned Criminal Appeals
are disposed of. (A.M. Kapadia, J.)
 

(Harsha Devani, J.)
 

... (karan) Top