K.M. Joseph, J. These cases being connected, they are disposed of by this

common Judgment. 2. An Hydraulic Excavator while being transported on a

lorry was detained by the authorities acting under Section 47(2) of

the Kerala Value Added Tax Act (hereinafter referred to as the

Act). Thereafter, finding that there was an attempt to evade tax,

the adjudicating authority under Section 47(6) of the Act, imposed

a penalty, both on the consignor and the consignee in a sum of

Rs.13,13,830/=. The consignee preferred an appeal before the

appellate authority which was unsuccessful. However, the

appellate tribunal in further appeal found that the consignee was

not guilty of any connivance and set aside the penalty. It is against

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 2 the same that the State has filed O.T.Rev.No.9/13. 3. After the order of the appellate tribunal setting aside the

penalty, though the consignee approached the officer for release of

the Excavator, it was not released. He thereupon filed a Writ

Petition for directing release of the excavator. The learned Single

Judge disposed of the said Writ Petition by directing that if the

State did not file Revision against the order of the appellate

tribunal within a period of fifteen days, the Excavator must be

released to the consignee. It is feeling aggrieved by the same that

the consignee has preferred Writ Appeal No.121/13. 4. It would appear that the consignee had availed a loan from

M/s. Indus Ind Bank Ltd. in connection with the purchase of the

excavator. In the light of the detention of the excavator, the Bank

filed a Writ Petition for a direction that the excavator shall be

released to it. The said Writ Petition being unsuccessful, the Bank

has preferred Writ Appeal No.1714/12. 5. Since the State had filed a Revision Petition within the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 3 time granted by the learned Single Judge and it is found that there

was a prima facie case made out, this Court had granted stay of the

order of the appellate tribunal. Thereafter, this Court proceeded to

hear the matter. Since certain issues arose which this Court

considered to be fairly vexed, it was felt that this Court should

appoint an Amicus Curiae to assist us. Accordingly, this Court

appointed Shri Mohammed Rafiq as Amicus Curiae. 6. This Court heard Shri G. Bhagavat Singh, learned counsel

for the consignee, the learned Amicus Curiae and also Shri Bobby

John Pulikkaparambil, learned Government Pleader. 7. I will straight-away extract the relevant provisions of the

Act. Sections 47(2) and 47(6) of the Act read as follows: Under Section 47(2) , inter alia, on the basis of a suspicion that the

transporter is attempting to evade payment of the tax due, it is open

to the officer to detain the goods. Thereafter, the officer unless it

be that the tax has been paid and he drops the proceedings, must

proceed to make an adjudication. The procedure for making the

adjudication is as contemplated under Section 47(6) of the Act. Section 47(6) of the Act provides that if the officer finds that there

has been an attempt to evade the payment of tax that he shall

impose penalty, not exceeding twice the rate of tax sought to be

evaded on the owner of the goods. The penalty can be realised by

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 6 sale of the goods. Section 47(15) of the Act contemplates refund

of the excess amount realised on the sale of the goods to the owner

of the goods. 8. Now let me turn to the facts: WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 7 9. According to the learned Government Pleader, it has been

found by the adjudicating officer that the consignor has not

effected any purchase of the excavator under question during the

year 2011-2012 as evidenced by the purchase bills filed by the

dealer along with the monthly returns. It is found that the result of

verification on KVATIS Data is as follows: It was found that the purchases effected by the consignor during

June, October and December, 2011 are below Rs.5 lakhs and for

the other months, NIL return. It is found that it is proved that the

consignor has not conceded purchase of any excavator to the tune

of `.47,30,250/= in question. It is further found that the details of

the closing stock value as on 31.3.2011 and stock inventory e-filed

by the consignor for 2010-2011 are as follows: The aforesaid is the closing stock as on 31.3.2011. Without any

accounted purchase of the excavator or availability in opening

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 9 stock, it is found that it is sure that the seller is disabled in

accounting properly its sale. Hence he can only suppress the sales

even though the transport is supported by 8B bill. It is stated that

there is no doubt about the transportation and transactions would

have been unnoticed, but for the detention. It is thereafter found

that considering the facts and figures it is proved that the consignor

as well as the consignee maliciously colluded to defraud the

exchequer and thereby a clear attempt to evade tax legitimately due

to the State Exchequer is involved in this case. A penalty of

`.13,13,830/= was imposed being double the amount of tax

attempted to be evaded. It is further ordered that the

consignor/consignee is directed to pay the penalty as demanded

within fifteen days of the receipt of the demand notice. The

appellate authority dismissed the appeal. It was found that the

consignor and consignee have colluded. It is, inter alia, found by

the first appellate authority that the consignee had paid an advance

of `.17,60,000/= in cash and the Bank had given `.36,00,000/=,

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 10 thus `.53,60,000/= (The Invoice is for `.47 and Odd lakhs). It is

found that being a registered dealer, the consignee should have

explained the source of cash payment. It is also found that the

consignee did not produce any receipt for the excess payment. It is

further found that the TIN number of the consignee is consciously

avoided in the invoice. It is found that even though the respondent

is an end consumer, there is violation of Rule 58(11) and it is

found that the consignee has colluded with the seller. It is also

found that the consignee has not filed any application for

compounding and that he has filed quarterly returns for the first

three quarters only on 10.02.2011, that is after detention of the

goods. 10. The tribunal took the view that the Intelligence Officer

was probably justified in detaining the consignment. The tribunal

further found that the materials do not indicate that there was an

attempt on the part of the appellant to evade payment of tax. The

consignment was supported by the prescribed documents, namely

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 11 the invoice. The materials on record, it is found, would indicate

that the consignee was a genuine buyer. The consignee availed a

loan of `.36 lakhs from the Bank. The tribunal refers to the report

of the Intelligence Officer prepared on the basis of the direction of

this Court. The tribunal further finds that the enquiry report

indicates that the attempt to evade tax was by the seller

(consignor). There is nothing to conclude that the consignee

colluded with the seller. The intelligence officer ought to have

proceeded against the consignor and the sale is reflected in the

return filed by the consignor and, therefore, there is no justification

for finding that there is attempt to evade payment of tax., it is

found. Apparently, the tribunal found merit in the contention of the

consignee that the excavator was being taken to the Santhigiri

Ashramam in Thiruvananthapuram, as the consignee was a devotee

who wanted the vehicle to be presented there before putting it to

use. The materials do not indicate that there was an attempt on the

part of the consignee to evade payment of tax, it is found. The

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 12 tribunal set aside the order of penalty. The intelligence officer was

given liberty to make further investigation with regard to the

transactions of the consignor and the consignee's revision was

allowed. 11. Learned Government Pleader would submit that the

finding of the tribunal cannot be justified. As found by the

adjudicating authority and the appellate authority, there was clear

attempt to evade payment of tax. According to him, under Section

47(6) , once it is found that there is attempt to evade payment of

tax, penalty can be imposed. He would submit that what is

relevant is only that there must be an attempt to evade payment of

tax. The learned Amicus Curiae would submit that when there is a

concluded sale and there is proof of payment of tax by the buyer to

the seller who collects as an agent of the Government, then the

attempt by the seller to evade the tax is to be ignored under Section

47 of the Act. He also would submit that it may be true that there

was an attempt to evade payment of tax by the seller. He would

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 13 submit, no doubt, that non-mentioning of the TIN number in the

invoice is a matter which would point to there being collusion.

This is for the reason that if the TIN number is indicated, the

authorities are enabled to get for the details and prevent tax

evasion. In this regard, he referred this Court to Section 40A(2) of

the Act which reads as follows: The consignee is a dealer. Undoubtedly, he would point out that Section 47(6) permits imposition of penalty on the owner of the

goods. In this case, there is no finding as to who is the owner of

the goods (In fact, this Court has already noticed that the

adjudicating officer has imposed penalty both on the consignor and

the consignee). He drew the attention of this Court to the

following case law: He would point out that the proper questions of law are not raised.

He further drew the attention of this Court to Circular 39 of 2007

which explained Section 40A of the Act. He drew the attention of

this Court to the decisions in Assistant Commissioner, Anti-

Evasion, Commercial Taxes, Bharatpur v. Amtek India Limited [( 2007) 6 VST 242(SC)] and Madras Rubber Factory Ltd. v.

State of Kerala [1987) 67 STC 183 (Ker)]. He would contend that

under the Sale of Goods Act 1930, under Section 20 , property in

the goods would pass when the contract is made. He would further

submit that actually Section 47(6) of the Act is a re-production of

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 15 Section 29A of the KGST Act. He would submit that there is clear

defect in the drafting of the Section under the VAT regime. He

would submit that under the KGST Act , it was mostly single point

taxation whereas under the VAT regime, it is a multi-point tax

regime. No doubt, there is multi-point tax also under the KGST

Act . He would submit that there may be attempt to evade tax by a

person after the sale and during the transport. He may attempt to

sell a part of the goods. He may attempt to sell the goods by

attempting to evade tax which he would have to pay on a

subsequent transaction by him. It may not be just to impose

penalty on the buyer of the goods to whom the property has passed

under the concluded sale when he is completely innocent and what

is more, he had paid the entire tax to the seller who collects as the

agent of the Government. 12. Learned counsel for the consignee would contend that

there is no merit at all in the Government's revision. He would

submit that the consignee was a works contractor who is having

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 16 registration at Kollam. He has been allowed to pay tax on the

compounded basis. He would submit that much significance

cannot be attached to the omission of the TIN number in the

invoice. According to him, the omission of the TIN number is

irrelevant because the sale to the consignee in this case is as an end

user. He is not buying it for the purpose of resale. It may be true

that he is a dealer who is registered under the Act, but when he is

purchasing it for his own use, namely in his contract business, no

significance can be attached to the omission of the TIN number.

He would submit that it was for the seller to have included the

same. He contended that possibly the consignor would have

accounted the purchase of the excavator in January, 2012. He

further poses a question as to why the department had not taken

any action against the consignor. According to him, it is always

open to the department to proceed against the consignor as was

allowed by the tribunal. He refers to Section 67 of the VAT Act.

He would submit that the transaction was a genuine transaction and

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 17 it was financed by the bank. The invoice showed that the tax

amount was paid. As far as the payment of the amount in excess,

he would submit that after the amount was paid by the bank, on

noticing that excess payment was made by the consignee, the

consignor had returned the excess amount. (He made available the

Pass Book before this Court indicating a credit entry in his name in

support of the said contention). He would submit that a penalty

can be imposed under Section 47(6) only on the owner of the

goods. When the consignee who is the owner of the goods had not

done anything wrong and he was innocent, he poses the question

as to how penalty could be imposed on the consignee. He would

also submit that the Section requires a re-drafting. 13. This Court directed the learned Government Pleader as to

whether the consignor had accounted purchase of the excavator in

January 2012. Thereupon, he made available the file and from the

same, it became clear to this Court that the consignor had not

accounted the purchase of the excavator even in January, 2012.

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 18 Thereafter, learned counsel Shri G. Bhagavat Singh submitted that

going through the files it would become clear that there was an

accounted purchase of excavator by the consignor during 2009-

2010. This Court directed the learned Government Pleader to

ascertain whether actually any such excavator was purchased,

going by the details furnished by the consignor to the department.

Learned Government Pleader on instructions submitted that there

are no materials to find that the consignor had made available

documents to account purchase of an excavator. This is for the

reason that in the return filed by the consignor on which Shri G.

Bhagavat Singh relied on, the column against which the purchase

is shown takes in other items apart from excavator. Probably, there

were some other items other than excavator which had been

purchased. In this context, it is relevant to note that going by the

finding, the consignor was not having registration to deal in

excavators. This also disabled this Court from finding as to

whether the so-called excavator shown as purchased, is the same

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 19 excavator which is the subject matter of the present controversy, a

finding on which lines, was sought by the consignor. But, no

details are forthcoming. Shri G. Bhagavat Singh would also

contend that the Writ Appeal filed by him must be allowed and the

Writ Petition filed by him for release of the excavator should have

been allowed, he contends. Once the tribunal set aside the order of

penalty, there is no basis at all for the department to not release the

vehicle, he complained. 14. The fundamental question to be considered is whether

the levy of penalty in this case is justified and the appellant is

liable to pay the penalty. This Court would in this context scan the

case law made available. In the first place, this Court would refer

to the following case law relied on by the Amicus Curiae: (ii) In Madras Rubber Factory Ltd. v. State of Kerala [(1987) 67 STC 183 (Ker)], a Bench of this Court took the view

that when the invoice indicated that the property in goods will

remain with the seller until the payment is received and the goods

were returned by the buyer without taking delivery, there is no

sale. (iii) In P.D. Sudhi v. Intelligence Officer, Agricultural

Income-tax and Sales-tax, Mattancherry and Others [(1992) 85

STC 337(Ker)] the Court was dealing with Section 45A of the

KGST Act which provided for imposition of penalty. The court

took the view that there must be mens rea and the officer cannot

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 21 initiate proceedings without there being material. The discretion

under Section 45A , it was held, was not an unexaminable or

unfettered discretion. Penalty was discretionary. The quantum of

penalty should depend upon the gravity of the offence. (iv) In Gentle Joseph & Co. v. State of Kerala [(1993) 89

STC 494(Ker)], again a Bench of this Court dealt with a case under Section 29A of the KGST Act whereunder the goods of the

petitioner were detained, inter alia, referred to P.D. Sudhi v.

Intelligence Officer, Agricultural Income-tax and Sales-tax,

Mattancherry and Others [(1992) 85 STC 337(Ker)] and held that

the finding that there has been an attempt to evade tax could be

rendered only on the basis of the materials and the reasons for such

finding should also be disclosed. The Court further held that the

law laid down in P.D. Sudhi's case (supra) is applicable though

the phrase used in Section 29A(4) is alightly different from the

phraseology in Section 45A of the KGST Act. Levy of maximum

penalty was found to be unreasonable and irrational. The Court

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 22 found that the reason given by the tribunal that penalty under Section 29A(4) of the KGST Act is different from the penalty to be

imposed under the other penal provisions is unsustainable and the

order of penalty was set aside. (v) In V. Ramachandran v. State of Kerala [(1994) 92 STC

221(Ker)], a Bench of this Court was dealing with a case where the

petitioner therein sold milk powder manufactured by two

manufacturers. The manufacturers collected tax on their sales to

the petitioner being first sales. Petitioner employed a travelling

sales man who effected the sales of the milk powder. The vehicle

was intercepted having no records to accompany the transport.

The petitioner's claim that the sales were second sales was rejected

and it was held that there was attempt at evasion. The Court took

the view that admittedly the petitioner was second seller of milk

powder and that when there were no proper and valid documents, it

may be possible to presume that there was an attempt to evade tax.

But, the Court further held that it is only an inference or a

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 23 presumption of fact. The Court further held that there was a duty

to consider the plea of the petitioner that he was only indulging in

second sales which is not taxable and even if the transport was not

accompanied by proper and valid documents, no penalty would be

exigible because it could not be said that there was an attempt to

evade tax due under the Act. The matter was remitted back to the

tribunal to consider the aspect. (vi) In State of Tamil Nadu v. Govindan & Co. and State of

Tamil Nadu v. Raman & Co. [(1994) 93 STC 185 (SC)] the Apex

Court was dealing with a case of purchase of condemned coaches

and nissen huts in public auction and sale after dismantling as

scrap. The said sale was second sale which was not taxable. The

Apex Court confirmed the view of the Madras High Court that

there was no duty to show that the sellers had paid tax at the first

point, thus confirming the decision in State of Madras v. Raman

& Co. [(1974) 33 STC 1). (vi) In V.V. Agencies v. State of Kerala [(2003) 129 STC 56

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 24 (Ker), the Court held that the goods under transport was taxable at

the first point of sale. The records showed that in respect of the

goods under transport, tax was paid by Tata Oil Mills and this was

sufficiently proved by the assessment orders passed in the case of

the assessee. The Court took the view that there was no attempt to

evade payment of tax and no penalty could be levied. (vii) In Assistant Commissioner, Anti-Evasion, Commercial

Taxes, Bharatpur v. Amtek India Limited [(2007) 6 VST 242

(SC)], it was a case where there were all the documents relating to

goods which were produced at the time of checking of the vehicle.

The assessing officer entertained a doubt on the basis of an invoice

of an earlier date and imposed penalty. There was a lapse of one

year from the date of the invoice. The appellate authority and the

tax board found the explanation of the respondent satisfactory.

The Apex Court in fact took the view that there was no basis at all

to levy penalty and also deprecated the practice of orders imposing

penalty which were bereft of any rationality.

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 25 (viii) In Gheru Lal Bal Chand v. State of Haryana and

Another [(2011) 45 VST 195 (P & H)], the judgment rendered by a

Bench of the Punjab & Haryana High Court, the issue related to

denial of input tax credit on the ground that the dealers from whom

the petitioners had purchased the goods had not deposited the full

tax. A Writ Petition was filed for declaring Section 8(3) of the Act

in question as ultravires. The Court, inter alia, held as follows: WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 27 15. Now let this Court turn to the case law cited by the

learned Government Pleader: In short, his contention is that it could not be said that the

consignee was the owner and it is his further contention that there

was collusion between the consignor and the consignee. (ii) In Ibrahim Isaphai v. Union of India and Another (AIR

1986 Gujarat 6), a Bench of the said Court took the view that mere

endorsement on the railway receipt does not transfer the property

in the goods covered by a railway receipt and what is relevant was

the intention of the parties which had to be decided with reference

to the terms of the contract, the conduct of the parties and the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 29 circumstances of the case. (iii) In Leigh & Sillavan Ltd. v. Aliakmon Shipping Co.

Ltd. [(1985) 2 All ER 44), the Court of Appeals took the following

view: Accordingly, title and the right to sue the shipowners

 in contract had never passed to the buyers." (iv) In Bharat & Co. v. Trade Tax Officer and Another [(2005)6 SCC 796)] the appellant carried on business in Mumbai

which sent goods to a consignee. The tax officer took the view

that the appellant was the owner of the goods. The Court took the

view that a mere entry of the purchaser's name in the consignment

note is not sufficient to hold that title of the goods had passed to

the purchaser. (v) In Suchetan Exports Private Limited v. Gupta Coal

India Limited And Others [(2011) 13 SCC 83), the Court repelled

the contention that after delivery of the goods to the stevedore, title

and ownership passed to the buyer and the lien over the goods

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 31 stood terminated. The Court took the view that the title was to

pass only on full payment. (vi) In State of Kerala v. Abdul Gafoor K.M. [(2011) 19

KTR 115 (Ker)] the documents authorised transport of HSD (High

Speed Diesel) only upto Mahe. The goods were, however,

detected at Thalassery in Kerala without proper documents. The

assessee at a later stage produced the documents and penalty was

imposed under Section 29A(4) of the KGST Act. The penalty

originally levied was sustained upto the stage of the tribunal. The

High Court remanded the matter. Thereafter, the tribunal cancelled

the penalty. It was in such a case the Court held that Mahe had

only one sq. kilometre area. The respondent's explanation for

taking the tanker lorry with full load of diesel outside Mahe, was

that it had developed a valve problem. The Court found the

explanation unacceptable and the attempt of the respondent was

found to be to sell the goods in Kerala. It was found to be a case of

a clear attempt to evade tax and the respondent could not claim

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 32 exemption from penalty by accounting the goods after the fraud

was detected. The learned Government Pleader contended that the

subsequent payment of tax after the detection in the facts of this

case, when he had not accounted, the purchase was a clear attempt

to evade payment of tax. (vii) In Abdul Aziz Bepari v. Jogendra Krishna Roy [(1916)

ILR Calcutta 98)], the Court, inter alia, held as follows: (viii) In Arcot Mills Limited v. State of Tamil Nadu [(1984)

55 STC 356), a Bench of the Madras High Court held, inter alia, as

follows: (ii) In Sundaram Finance Ltd. v. State of Kerala And

Another [(1966) 17 STC 489), the case arose under the

Travancore-Cochin General Sales Tax Act, 11 of 1125 M.E. The

Court, inter alia, held as follows: WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 36 (iii) In The Executive Engineer v. M/s. Sri Seetaram Rice

Mill (SC) [(2012) 2 SCC 108)], the Apex Court was considering

the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 . Therein, inter alia, the

Court held as follows: He also drew support from the Judgment of the Punjab & Haryana

High Court in Gheru Lal Bal Chand v. State of Haryana and

Another [{45) VST 195)]. WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 37 Findings: Even though the consignee made an attempt to point out that an

excavator was seen purchased, going by the return during 2009-

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 38 2010, as already noted, the same could not be established.

Therefore, there can be no doubt that the consignor would not have

accounted the transaction, both purchase and sale, but for the

detention. The transaction is alleged to be based on the Invoice

dated 20.1.2012. It is true that the consignor had time till

20.02.2012 to file the monthly return and pay the tax for the month

of January, 2012. It is equally true that the consignor has filed

monthly return for the month of January, 2012 on 17.02.2012 in

which he has accounted the purchase and sale of the excavator and

purported to pay the tax due on the same. But, it is indisputable

that the detention of the vehicle took place on 08.02.2012. I am in

agreement with the learned Government Pleader, in the

circumstances established by materials available in this case, that it

is a clear case of subsequent accounting and payment of tax by the

consignor after the factum of detention. I am of the aforesaid

view, despite the fact that the consignor had time till 20.02.2012.

It is undoubtedly true that before penalty is imposed on the finding

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 39 that there was attempt to evade the tax, there must be materials

warranting such a finding. The intention of a party to evade

payment of tax is to be considered based on the facts of each case

and on the strength of the materials which point to circumstances

which warrant the requisite finding under Section 47(6) of the Act.

The consignor has not contested the imposition of penalty which

the adjudicating officer has imposed on him also. He has not

carried the matter in appeal. He must be treated as having

accepted the findings. Even then, this Court notice, as pointed out

by the learned Government Pleader, that the appellate tribunal has

set aside the order of penalty. Thus, the order of penalty does

cease to operate even against the consignor. Therefore, this Court

is of the clear view that there was attempt on the part of the

consignor to evade payment of tax. 18. In the facts of this case, a further question arises whether

the aforesaid finding is sufficient for the disposal of the matter.

This is for the reason that under Section 47(6) of the Act, penalty

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 40 can be imposed only on the owner of the goods. The Act provides

for multi-point taxation unlike the provisions of the KGST Act .

No doubt, under the KGST Act also, there are certain goods which

were subjected to multi-point taxation. I must undoubtedly bear in

mind that Section 47(6) of the Act enables imposition of penalty.

Penalty is to be imposed for the contravention of some law. It is

established that all penalties do not require the establishment of

mens rea. According to the learned Government Pleader, under Section 47(6) of the Act, irrespective of the question as to whether

the consignee colluded with the consignor, penalty can be

imposed once there was a finding that there was an attempt to

evade payment of tax. Section 47(6) of the Act does not insist on

evasion of tax. What must be proved is only that there must be an

attempt to evade payment of tax. The question, however, is

whether the attempt should be made by the consignor or the

consignee. Also, Section 47(6) of the Act limit the imposition of

penalty in cases where the consignor or the seller alone intended to

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 41 evade the payment of tax or is it applicable even in a case where

the buyer was innocent and did not share the guilty mind of the

seller. What is the meaning of the word "owner of the goods" ? Is

there a personal liability for the owner to shoulder the burden of

penalty either by the sale of the goods, the property in which has

already passed to him and what is more, in the event of the sale not

fetching the amount of penalty by incurring a personal liability. 19. As far as the question of a penalty being imposed beyond

the value of the goods is concerned, this Court would think that it

can be safely concluded that the penalty being leviable at the

maximum of two times of the rate of tax, the question of penalty

being recovered from the other assets of the owner of the goods,

there being deficiency, can be ruled out. Section 47(15) of the

Act, no doubt, contemplates that the excess amount realised by the

sale, is to be given back to the owner of the goods. 20. The question as to who is the owner of the goods has

really not been found by the authorities, as pointed out by the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 42 learned Amicus Curiae and admitted by the learned Government

Pleader. The final fact finding body is the appellate tribunal. In

fact, the learned Government Pleader would point out that the

adjudicating officer has proceeded against both the consignor and

the consignee as according to him, at that stage it was not clear to

the adjudicating officer as to who was the owner of the goods. As

already noticed, penalty has been imposed both on the consignor

and the consignee. This, this Court find is impermissible and

unacceptable. Section 47(6) of the Act permits imposition of

penalty only on the owner of the goods. In this case, either the

consignor or the consignee is the owner of the goods. Both of

them could not possibly be treated as owner of the goods at the

same point of time. Property in the goods is with either of them.

Property passes on a sale of goods as contemplated under the Sale

of Goods Act, 1930 . Section 19 of the said Act reads as follows: Therefore, the question as to whether there has been a completed

sale is to be determined on the facts of each case and on a

conspectus of the contract, the intention of the parties, their

conduct and the rules which have been adverted to in Section 19 of

the Sale of Goods Act. The Invoice is purported to be dated

20.01.2012. According to the consignee, a large advance stood

paid to the consignor prior to the date of the Invoice (nearly Rs.17

lakhs). The bank is alleged to have made the payment on

13.02.2012. The excavator was on the road on 08.02.2012 and

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 44 was detained even before receipt of the full payment. It would

appear that the consignor had engaged the carrier. These facts are

not in dispute. The learned Government Pleader would point out

that not having accounted the purchase, the consignor could not

have possibly given an opportunity to the consignee for inspection

as claimed by the consignee, and that even if the consignee has

seen it, it would have been lodged in an unauthorised godown

which itself spells out collusion between the consignor and the

consignee. If the parties contemplated a right of disposal with the

seller, that would detract from the passing of title, submits the

learned Government Pleader. Learned Government Pleader has a

further case that, at any rate, the consignor must be treated as the

owner at the time when the transaction took place. 21. On the one hand, the Amicus Curiae and the counsel for

the consignee submit that it would be unfair to cede the power to

the officer to impose penalty on an innocent purchaser who, in

fact, paid the price which included the tax component. He on his

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 45 own did nothing to indicate that he will evade the payment of tax,

that is to say, assuming that there is a concluded sale in favour of

the consignee and there was no intention on his part to sell the

excavator to another and evade the payment of tax by him, no

penalty on the consignee is possible, it is submitted. On the other

hand, according to the learned Government Pleader, irrespective of

whether the consignee has colluded with the consignor as was the

case of the authority, on there being intention to evade the payment

of tax established, that suffices, he submits. Blocking the

loopholes in tax evasion, even when an attempt is made by

imposing penalty, is well within the authority of the Legislature, he

points out. Under Section 47 of the Act, the imposition of the

penalty is brought to its logical conclusion by the realisation of the

amount of penalty by the sale of the goods which are detained and

seized and later sold, he submits. Unlike under Section 67 of the

Act, when an order of penalty may be passed which may turn out

to be incapable of being realised, in the case of the penalty order

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 46 which is passed under Section 47(6) of the Act, the Legislature

intends the effective realisation of the penalty also by the sale of

the goods which are detained. No doubt, I must deal with the

further question as to whether the buyer being innocent of any

guilty mind, no penalty can be imposed by the sale of the goods

under Section 47 of the Act. There is no positive finding rendered

by the authorities including the tribunal as to whether the

consignor or the consignee is the owner of the goods. But, the

question which arises is whether as contended by the learned

Government Pleader, the fact being proved that the seller made an

attempt to evade the payment of tax due, is sufficient for

imposition of a penalty. This Court find no merit in the contention

of the learned counsel for the consignee that the tax having been

paid by the consignor on 17.2.2012, the adjudicating authority

acted illegally in further probing the question as to whether there

was an attempt to evade the payment of the tax due. As noticed by

us, the detention was on 08.02.2012. Not only was there ground

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 47 for detention, but even at the time of adjudication, in as much as

the payment of tax on the basis of the return filed was after the

date of detention, such filing of return and payment of tax, could in

no way take away the reasonable and irresistible inference that

there was attempt to evade payment of tax by the consignor,

having regard to the circumstances in this case. On detention

being noticed, it is only a natural course of conduct by the

consignor to account it and to make it appear that the tax due was

paid. What the Section requires and what this Court is called upon

to decide is whether there was an attempt to evade payment of tax

and not whether there was an actual evasion of payment of tax. 22. If this Court interpret the provisions of Section 47 as

meaning that irrespective of the absence of any intention on the

part of the consignee or rather buyer and, therefore, the owner of

the goods to attempt to evade payment of tax, then necessarily this

Court would be countenancing the imposition of penalty on such a

person who has no dishonest intention as contemplated. It could

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 48 also be said that the result of such an interpretation would be that

the owner of the goods or the consignee rather will lose the goods

by compulsory sale and entitled only to the amount realised in

excess whereas the actually guilty person, namely the consignor or

the seller who was attempting to evade the payment of tax would

not be visited with the penalty. As a matter of law, when a

contract for sale of goods takes place, the property may pass even

though the entire price is not paid. In a case where there was a

completed sale though the price is not fully paid, undoubtedly,

when the goods are sold, a question may arise whether the

consignee can set up the penalty and the compulsory sale in

defence to a Suit for payment of the price or the balance amount.

The statutory compulsory sale would no doubt in such a case put

an end to the lien which the seller may have. 23. The Court has to primarily gather the intention

embedded in a provision with reference to the words used in the

provisions. Section 47(2) of the Act provides for detention of

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 49 goods, that if the officer has reason to suspect, inter alia, that any

person transporting the goods, is attempting to evade the payment

of tax due under the Act. In this case, the goods were being

carried by a carrier. There is not much dispute that the carrier was

engaged by the consignor. No doubt, the consignee has a case that

it was being despatched by the consignor at his instance. As far as

the carrier is concerned, this Court would proceed on the basis that

he was an agent of the consignor. The driver has given a statement

wherein he has, inter alia, stated that the excavator was being taken

to near Rajagiri College, Pothankode as directed by Viswambaran

(consignee). The driver has given the consignee's mobile number

which was given to him. It is thereafter that Section 47(6) of the

Act contemplates an inquiry. The officer is obliged to issue notice

to the owner of the goods. An opportunity of being heard is to be

provided to the owner of the goods. At the conclusion of the

inquiry, the Section further mandates that if there is an attempt to

evade tax, the officer is to impose penalty on the owner. The

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 50 penalty is to be on the basis of the tax attempted to be evaded and

the maximum amount of penalty is twice the tax attempted to be

evaded, as is estimated by the officer (the tax sought to be evaded

is to be estimated by the officer). 24. Rule 67 of the KVAT Rules is the rule which is

connected with Section 47 of the Act. Rule 67 (3) of the KVAT

Rules reads as follows: Under the Sale of Goods Act , Section 5 reads as follows: Section 18 of the Sale of Goods Act declares that in the case of a

contract for the sale of unascertained goods, unless the goods are

ascertained, there is no transfer of property in the goods. Section

19 being relevant, is extracted below: At this juncture, it is necessary to consider what is meant by

"specific goods". "Specific goods" is defined in Section 2(xiv) as

goods identified and agreed upon at the time a contract of sale is

made. As far as the words "ascertained goods" is concerned, this

Court may notice the following commentary in Pollock & Mulla in

the Sale of Goods Act (Sixth Edition): Therefore, in the case of a contract for the sale of `specific' or

`ascertained goods', what is crucial is the intention of the parties.

Intention is to be ascertained on the basis of the terms of the

contract, the conduct of the parties and the circumstances. Section

20 contemplates property in the goods passing when the contract is

made. There are three requirements, however, to be fulfilled to

apply the said provision. They are as follows: Under Section 21 of the Sale of Goods Act, property will not pass

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 54 in the case of a contract for sale of specific goods, when the seller

is bound to do something to the goods for putting them in a

deliverable state. In such circumstances, unless the seller does

what is required to put the goods in a deliverable state and the

buyer has notice thereof, the property in the goods will not pass. Section 22 of the Sale of Goods Act reads as follows: Section 23 also reads as follows: As far as delivery to a carrier or other bailee resulting in deemed

unconditional appropriation of the goods to the contract is

concerned, it is subject to the condition that the seller has not

reserved the right of disposal. Section 24 of the Sale of Goods Act

deals with consent on approval or sale or return. 25. In this case, there is no finding as to whether the

consignor or the consignee is the owner. In fact, the officer has

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 56 imposed penalty on both which is plainly impermissible. This

question has not also engaged the attention of the fact finding

authorities. 26. I have already found that the consignor did have the

intention to evade payment of tax. Still further, even if it is a case

where the consignor and the consignee colluded or if the consignee

was in any way privy to the consignor, attempting to evade the tax,

then also, the imposition of penalty by sale of the goods as

contemplated in the Act cannot be faulted. Then there is the third

situation which is where the consignee is completely innocent of

any wrong doing. 27. In this case, as pointed out by the learned Amicus Curiae,

the circumstance that the TIN number of the consignee was not

indicated in the Invoice, is a lapse. The indication of the TIN

number is rendered mandatory by virtue of the provisions of Section 40A(2) of the Act. The answer of the consignee is that

even though the consignee is also a dealer, in as much as the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 57 particular transaction related to the purchase of excavator as an end

user and that it was not meant for resale, he purchased in his

capacity not as dealer, but in connection with his own business

which is as a works contract. He also contends that the address of

the consignee is indicated in the Invoice and the provisions

(S.40A) cast a duty on the consignor and the consignee, cannot be

blamed. 28. I am of the view that the gloss sought to be put on the

words in Section 40A(2) may not be sustainable. All that is

required is that there must be a sale to a dealer. There is no dispute

that the consignee is a dealer. Circular No.39/07, inter alia, reads

as follows: WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 58 3. Invoices in Form 8B will be restricted only to

 dealer-to-retail consumer sales. 6. Section 40A of the Act as amended by Kerala

 Finance Act, 2003 stipulates that every sale

 bill/invoice shall contain complete address and

 TIN/PIN details of the purchaser. The intention

 behind the legislation is only to bring systemic

 pressure on all traders to write bills so as to tap

 revenue up to the ultimate consumer. 7. There is no intention to require dealers to

 give all these details in respect of all sales to retail

 consumers and to burden traders with unnecessary

 formalities. In fact bills need compulsorily be given

 only for amounts of R.100/- or more. 8. So to begin with, the stipulation that

 TIN/PIN along with complete address should be

 compulsorily given in bills/invoices will apply only to

 dealer-to-dealer transactions. 11. Complete address of the buyer will be

 required to be given in case of dealer-to retail

 consumer sales only if the sale value is Rs.5,000/- or

 more." WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 59 Circular No.46/07 reads as follows: There may be circumstances from which one could readily infer

that the seller has the intention to evade the payment of tax. Such

circumstance would be the circumstance where the seller does not

for instance have any registration to deal in the particular goods

and the quantum of purchase is clearly sufficient to make the

transaction exigible to tax. 38. In this case, I am of the view that not only did the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 68 seller had the intention to evade the payment of tax, but the

consignee was also party to it or was colluding with the seller. I

cannot treat the consignee as an end user in regard to the

excavator. The consignee could possibly use the same by

transferring the right to use the same in which case it would be a

sale. Therefore, admittedly, the consignee is a registered dealer.

Also, as found by the appellate authority, the consignee was not

able to explain the source for payment of `.17,60,000/= which he

has alleged that he has paid in cash. 39. The next question is whether this Court should remand

the matter back for finding as to who is the owner. In the

circumstances of this case, this Court is inclined to find that the

consignee is the owner. This Court already alluded to the relevant

provisions in the Sale of Goods Act . This Court may also advert to

the definition of "sale" in Section 2(xliii) of the Kerala Value

Added Tax Act as follows: Even under Section 5 of the Sale of Goods Act, neither the

delivery of goods, nor the full payment of the price is a criterion

for the passing of property. In this case, there is a third party,

namely the Bank. Quite clearly, the consignor stood assured of

payment of the full price through the medium of the arrangement

made with the Bank. There is delivery effected to the carrier. In

this case, there is delivery of the goods effected through the goods

being delivered to the carrier for being sent to the buyer. The

statement of the driver or the transporter, is on record to the effect

that the goods were being taken as instructed by the consignee.

Therefore, in the circumstances of this case, this Court would hold

that the consignee is the owner as this is the finding which this

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 70 Court can arrive at on the materials on record. 40. In the circumstances of this case, this Court is, therefore,

of the view that the penalty must be sustained on the consignee,

treating him as owner of the goods and on the basis that the seller

entertained the intention to evade the tax unambiguously and the

buyer (consignee) did collude with him as found by us. 41. However, as far as the question of quantum of penalty is

concerned, this Court is of the view that relief must be given to the

party. Twice the amount of tax (`.5,25,000/=) is `.10,50,000/=.

There is complaint that the penalty levied exceeds even twice the

amount of tax. This is a case where there was a bank transaction.

The tax has been paid. In the circumstances, I set aside the order

of the tribunal and the order of the intelligence officer as affirmed

by the appellate authority will stand modified and there will be an

order imposing penalty in a sum of `.3,00,000/= (Rupees Three

Lakhs) on the consignee treating him as the owner. The Revision

filed by the State is allowed as above. WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 71 42. This Court see no merit in the Writ Appeal filed by the

consignee. Merely because there was an order of the tribunal, it

cannot be said that without giving reasonable time for the offices

to decide whether further steps should be taken, it is incumbent on

the officers to release the goods. No doubt, unreasonable delay

without reference to any intention to challenge the tribunal's order

could be impermissible. But, in the facts of this case, this Court

does not think that such a conclusion is possible. Accordingly, the

direction of the learned Single Judge giving time for filing the

Revision cannot be taken exception to. Writ Appeal No.121/13

will stand dismissed. 43. This Court see no merit in the Writ Appeal filed by the

Bank. This Court see no right in them to claim a lien and get the

vehicle released. The rights of the Bank cannot prevail over the

right under Section 47 of the Act. I see no reason to disagree with

the Judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the Writ

Petition. Accordingly, Writ Appeal No.1714/12 will stand

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 72 dismissed. This Court records its appreciation for the efforts put in by

Shri Mohammed Raffiq who assisted us as Amicus Curiae in

arriving at the conclusions which we have arrived at. I have gone through the Judgment of my learned

Brother and I am fully agreeing with his findings, conclusions

and the reliefs granted, but I wish to touch upon some more

aspects, which I am adding in this Judgment. 2. As regards the appeal filed by the Bank, namely

WA No.1714/12 is concerned, they cannot be deemed to be the

owner of the goods as there is only a debtor-creditor relationship

between the appellant and the second respondent, in view of the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 73 dictum laid down in the decision in Sundaram Finance Private

Limited (supra). At the most, they may have a lien over the

goods, namely, the excavator, detained in this case and they

may be entitled to get the balance amount if any available after

the sale of the vehicle by the Department and adjustment of the

penalty amount imposed, if the owner of the goods did not pay

the penalty imposed in this case. Except that right, they have no

right to get delivery of the vehicle as they are not owner of the

goods. So, we do not find any reason to interfere with the finding

of the learned single Judge on this aspect. 3. As regards the Writ Appeal filed by

Sri.Viswambharan, namely WA No.121/13 is concerned, the

learned single Judge has dismissed the Writ Petition on the

ground that the State wanted to file a revision against the order

of the Tribunal and so, there is nothing wrong in granting

reasonable period for the State to file a revision and during that

time, retaining the goods with the Department cannot be said to

be illegal or unjustifiable. So, we do not find any reason to

interfere with the finding of the learned single Judge on this

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 74 aspect as well. 4. The main issue involved in OTR No.91/13 filed by

the State is whether the Tribunal was justified in setting aside

the concurrent finding of the adjudicating authority and the first

appellate authority and exonerating the appellant herein from

payment of penalty on the ground that he is a bona fide

purchaser of the goods and even setting aside the order against

the seller as well, though he did not file any appeal. The other

question of law involved in this case is "who can be said to be

the owner of the goods at the time of detaining the goods by the

detaining authority ?" 5. As regards the second point is concerned, none of

the authorities have gone into the question as to who is the

owner of the goods in respect of the goods that has been

detained by the authorities. It may be mentioned here that the

owner of the goods has not been defined under the Kerala

Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).

Normally, as far as the taxation statutes are concerned, the

owner of the goods will be deemed to be the seller for all

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 75 practical purposes. But, in some cases, if the title in movable

property passes to the buyer, in such cases, he will have to be

deemed to be the owner of the goods. Further, going by the

scheme of the Act, it will be clear that only the owner of the

goods will be liable for the tax evasion as he will be in

possession of the goods to be proceeded against and he will be

given an opportunity to explain as to why penalty should not be

imposed on the goods detained on the basis of attempt of

evasion of tax payable on the goods. 6. Section 47(2) of the Act says "If such an Officer

has reason to suspect that goods under transport are not

covered by proper and genuine documents (in cases where

such documents are necessary) or that any person transporting

the goods is attempting to evade payment of the tax due under

this Act, he may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, detain

the goods and shall allow the same to be transported only on,

the owner of the goods or his representative or the driver or

other person in charge of the vehicle or vessel on behalf of the

owner of the goods, furnishing security for double the amount of

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 76 tax likely to be evaded, as may be estimated by such officer.

Provided that such officer may, if he deems fit, having regard to

the nature of the carrier or the goods and other relevant matters,

allow such goods to be transported on the owner of the goods

or his representative or the driver or other person in charge of

the vehicle or vessel executing a bond with or without sureties

for securing the amount due as security. Provided further that

where the documents produced in support of the transport of

goods evidence defects of a minor or technical nature only and

the goods are owned by a dealer registered under this Act, such

officer may allow the goods to be transported after realising the

tax on the turnover of the goods under transport." So, it is clear

from the above provision that at that time, the intercepting

authority need only satisfy that there is suspicion of an attempt

to evade payment of tax by the owner of the goods, or the

person transporting the same and the goods were not supported

by valid documents representing the real sale at that time and

he need not consider as to whether there was actual evasion of

tax or attempt to evasion of tax. Suspicion is only subject to the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 77 satisfaction of the intercepting officer and nothing more at that

time. 7. Section 47(6) of the Act says that the Officer

authorised under sub-section (5) shall, before conducting the

inquiry, serve notice on the owner of the goods and give him an

opportunity of being heard and if, after the enquiry, such officer

finds that there has been an attempt to evade tax due under this

Act, he shall, by order, impose on the owner of the goods a

penalty not exceeding twice the amount of tax attempted to be

evaded, as may be estimated by such officer. So, it is clear from

this that the adjudicating officer must give an opportunity to the

owner of the goods and come to the conclusion, on the basis of

the materials available, that there has been an attempt to evade

tax due under the Act and only if such a conclusion has been

arrived at by the Officer, he is expected to impose penalty under

this Section. This was supported by the decision reported in Ranganathan v. Commercial Tax Inspector (2011(3) KLT SN

22 (Case No.24), wherein it has been held that the crucial

difference between the provisions contained in Section 47(2) WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 78 and 47(6) is that the detaining authority is authorised to intercept

and demand security deposit if he has reason to suspect that

the person transporting the goods is attempting to evade

payment of tax or the goods are not covered by proper and

genuine documents in cases where such documents are

necessary. But, in Section 47(6) , the authorised Officer

conducting the enquiry is empowered to impose penalty only if

such Officer finds that there has been an attempt to evade the

tax due under the Act. From the scheme of the statute, it is clear

and evident that if any detention is made on the basis of a

reasonable suspicion regarding attempt to evade payment of tax

or on the basis of not accompanying proper and genuine

documents, it shall be succeeded by an enquiry by another

officer of higher rank. Culmination of such enquiry should result

in an adjudication as to whether there was an actual attempt to

evade payment of tax due under the Act. Hence it is evident that

even if there exists a reasonable suspicion regarding attempt of

evasion of payment of tax, penalty can be imposed after

completing an enquiry only if the Officer arrives at a conclusive

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 79 finding that such an attempt was there in existence. Conclusive

finding contemplated under Section 47(6) of the Act, regarding

the attempt to evade tax could not be on mere presumption.

There should not be any missing link between the suspicion of

attempt of evasion of tax and the existence of an intention of

attempting to evade tax by the owner of the goods. 8. Further, in the decision reported in Gheru Lal Bal

Chand v. State of Haryana (2011) 45 VST 195), the Punjab and

Haryana High Court, while considering the penalty provisions

under the Haryana Value Added Tax Act and Rules, 2003,

observed that no liability under the Haryana Value Added Tax

Act, 2003 could be fastened on the purchasing registered dealer

on account of non-payment of tax by the selling registered

dealer in the treasury, unless fraudulence, collusion or

connivance of the registered selling dealer or its predecessors

with the purchasing registered dealer was established. It is also

observed in the same decision that there is no vicarious liability

in the case of evasion of payment of tax by one person on

another person. It is further observed in the same decision that

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 80 in legal jurisprudence, the liability can be fastened on a person

who either acts fraudulently or had been a party to the collusion

or connivance with the offender. However, the law envisages to

impose no penalty either directly or vicariously where a person is

not connected with any such evasion or act. Law cannot

envisage an almost impossible eventuality. In the absence of

any mala fide intention, connivance or wrongful association of

the purchasing dealer with the selling dealer or any dealer

earlier thereto, no liability can be imposed on the principle of

vicarious liability. Law cannot put such onerous responsibility on

the purchasing dealer otherwise. So, in order to fasten the

liability on a purchaser, it must be proved by the Department that

he had colluded or he had fraudulent intention to share with the

seller in the evasion of tax payable on the goods sold. 9. So, in such cases, the person, who is the owner of

the goods at the time of detention, has to be ascertained before

imposing penalty. There may be cases where though the sale

has taken place, the title in the property would not have passed

from the seller to the buyer and that may depend upon fulfilment

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 81 of certain conditions. Further, in a case where the property is in

transit, there may be cases where it may be subject to the

verification of the same by the buyer that title may pass to the

buyer from the seller and till then, the seller will be deemed to be

the owner of the goods. All these things will depend upon the

terms of the contract between the parties and if there are no

written terms of the contract, then, that will depend upon the

intention of the parties as to when the title in the goods would

pass to the buyer and that will have to be ascertained from the

attendant circumstances and conduct of the parties, if there is

no written agreement regarding the same is available. 10. In the decision reported in Sorabji Hormusha

Joshi and Company v. V.M.Ismail (AIR 1960 Madras 520), it

has been observed that in the case of sale of goods by

description where the description of goods is the basis of the

contract, the falsity of the description would make the goods

substantially different from those that were described so as to

constitute a failure of consideration. Where the goods are

bought by description, there is an implied condition that the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 82 goods shall be of merchantable quality. The Sale of Goods Act does not give any definition of the word 'merchantable', yet the

word has by long use, become a term of art in commercial law.

Merchantable quality means that the goods comply with the

description in the contract so that to a purchaser buying goods

of that description, the goods would be good tender. Goods are

of merchantable quality, if they are of such a quality and in such

condition that a reasonable man, acting reasonably, would, after

a full examination, accept them under the circumstances of the

case in performance of the offer to buy them, whether he buys

for his own use or to sell it again. In the same decision, it has

been observed that the mere receipt of goods does not amount

to acceptance and before the buyer can be called upon to

accept the goods, he can claim a reasonable opportunity to

examine the goods. That opportunity has to be given by the

seller on request by the buyer. The right of examination is

closely connected with the acceptance of goods and passing of

the property. 11. In the decision reported in Commissioner of

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 83 Customs, Kolkata v. Grand Prime Limited (2003) 5 SCC 762),

it has been observed that if the import of certain goods by the

importer is in violation of relevant rules and the documents

produced are not genuine, then, the authorities are entitled to

impose penalty and the exporter is not entitled to get back the

articles. 12. Further, in the decision reported in Bharat &

Company v. Trade Tax Officer (2005)6 SCC 796), it has been

observed that mere entry of the purchaser's name in the

consignment note is not sufficient to hold that the title in the

goods has passed to the purchaser. 13. In the decision reported in CIT v. Bhopal Textiles

Limited (AIR 1961 SC 426), it has been held that a railway

receipt is a document of title to goods and for all purposes,

represents the goods. When the railway receipt is handed over

to the consignee on payment, the property in goods is

transferred and in this case, it is a matter of considerable doubt

whether the property in the goods can be said to have passed to

the buyer by the mere fact of railway receipt being in the name

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 84 of the consignee, as has been held by the High Court. 14. Further, in the decision reported in Suchetan

Exports Private Limited v. Gupta Coal India Limited (2011)13

SCC 83), it has been held that merely because the goods were

delivered and the title and ownership passed to the buyer and

lien over the goods stood terminated, cannot be accepted, as

per the conditions. The title in the goods will pass to the buyer

only on full payment of the goods. 15. In the decision reported in State of Kerala v.

Abdul Gafoor.K.M. (2011) 19 KTR 115 (Ker), it has been held

that the respondent cannot claim exemption from penalty by

accounting goods after fraud was detected by the Department. 16. It is clear from the dictum laid down in the above

decisions that as to who is the owner of the goods, is a matter to

be determined before imposing penalty and merely because the

person against whom the proceedings have been initiated has

paid the tax alleged to be evaded subsequent to the detection,

will not exempt him from the penalty proceedings. So, the

observation made by the Tribunal in the order that since the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 85 buyer has paid tax and subsequently, the seller also accounted

the same by filing a return and thereby, there is no offence of

evasion of tax and exonerating the appellant from the liability,

appears to be not correct in view of the legal position discussed

above. Neither the tribunal nor the adjudicating officer nor the

first appellate authority has considered the fact as to who is the

owner of the goods at the relevant time and even if the

purchaser has become the owner of the goods, whether there

was any connivance or fraudulent act on his part with the seller

in evading payment of tax etc. The adjudicating officer found

both the seller and the buyer responsible for the payment of

penalty which was confirmed by the first appellate authority

which appears to be not correct. Further, the tribunal had,

without the order being questioned by the seller, set aside the

finding of the authority below that there was an attempt on the

part of the seller for evasion of the tax, but for the detection, he

would not have paid the tax and making him liable for the

penalty was also set aside by the tribunal and it was left open to

the authorities to proceed against the seller afresh, which also

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 86 appears to be unsustainable in law. So, on those two grounds,

the approach made by the tribunal in exonerating the buyer from

the liability, appears to be not correct, especially, when no

reason has been given by the tribunal for setting aside the

finding of the authorities below that there was connivance

between the seller and the buyer in evading tax by the seller as

found by the first appellate authority. 17. Though the owner of the goods has not been

defined under the Act, sale has been defined under Section 2

(xliii) of the Act, which reads as follows : Explanation III to the Section says, "A transfer of goods on hire-

purchase or other instalment system of payment shall

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 87 notwithstanding the fact that the seller retains the title in the

goods as security for payment of the price, be deemed to be a

sale on the date of delivery of the goods in pursuance of the

agreement of such hire purchase or other system of payment in

instalments. By virtue of this provision, the bank with whom the

excavator was hypothecated as security for repayment of the

loan, will not become the owner of the goods. Explanation V

says. "A transfer of right to use any goods for any purpose

(whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred

payment or other valuable consideration, shall be deemed to be

a sale. So, even if the excavator is given to a user on rent, then,

that also will be exigible to tax under the Act. The buyer being a

work contractor, the possibility of the buyer, giving it for rent to

others as part of his work and collecting rent, cannot be ruled

out. So, on that basis, it cannot be said that he is an end

purchaser and it is intended for his personal use alone as

contended by the learned counsel for the buyer. Further,

Explanation VIII(a) of the Section says that "the sale or purchase

of goods shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to have

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 88 taken place in the State where the contract of sale or purchase

might have been made if the goods are within the State - (i) in

the case of specific or ascertained goods at the time the contract

of sale or purchase is made, and (ii) in the case of

unascertained goods or future goods, at the time of their

appropriation to the contract of sale or purchase by the seller or

by the purchaser, whether the assent of the other party is prior o

subsequent to such appropriation. So, in order to become a

completed sale of ascertained goods, it must be available at the

deliverable state at the time of sale and in such cases, sale will

be complete on the date on which the sale has taken place. 18. Section 19 of the Sale of Goods Act says as to

when the property intends to pass in the case of sale of goods. Section 19(1) says that where there is a contract for sale of

specific or ascertained goods, the property in them is transferred

to the buyer, at such time as the parties to the contract intend it

to be transferred. Sub- section 2 of that section says, for the

purpose of ascertaining the intention of the parties regards shall

be had to the terms of the contract, the conduct of the parties

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 89 and the circumstances of the case. Sub- section 3 says that

unless a different intention appears, the provisions contained in

Sections 20-24 are the rules ascertaining the intention of the

parties as to the time at which the property in the goods is to

pass to the buyer. Section 20 of Sale of Goods Act says,

whether there is an unconditional contract for the sale of specific

goods in deliverable state, the property in the goods passes to

the buyer, when the contract is made and it is immaterial

whether the time of payment of the price or the time of delivery

of goods or both is postponed. Section 26 of the Act says,

unless otherwise agreed the goods remain at the sellers risk,

until the property therein is transferred to the buyer but when the

property therein it is transferred to the buyer, the goods are at

the buyers risk, whether delivery has been made or not.

Provided that where the delivery has been delayed through the

fault of either buyer or seller, the goods are at the risk of the

party in fault as regards any loss which might not have occurred

but for such fault; provided also that nothing in the section shall

affect the duties and liabilities of either seller or buyer as bailee

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 90 of the goods of the other party. Section 36 deals with rules as to

delivery. Sub Section 1 of that section says that, where it is for

the buyer to take possession of the goods or for the seller to

send them to the buyer is a question depending in each case on

the contract express or implied between the parties. Apart from

any such contract, goods sold or to be delivered at the place at

which they are at the time of the sale and the goods agreed to

be sold are to be delivered at the place at which they are at the

time of agreement to sell or if not then in existence, at the place

at which they are manufactured or produced. Sub Section 2 says, where under the contract of sale, the seller is bound to

send the goods to the buyer, but no time for sending them is

fixed, the seller is bound to send them with a reasonable time. Section 40 of the Act says, where the seller of the goods agrees

to deliver them at his own risk, at the place other than that

where they are when sold, the buyer shall nevertheless, unless

otherwise agreed take any risk of deterioration in the goods

necessarily incident to the course of transit. 19. Section 41 of the Act deals with buyers right of

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 91 examining the goods. Sub Section 1 of that section says, where

the goods are delivered to the buyer which he has not previously

examined, he is not deemed to have accepted them unless and

until he has had a reasonable opportunity of examining them for

the purpose of ascertaining whether they are in conformity with

the contract. So, it is clear from the above that the question as

to when the property passes will depend upon the facts of the

case, intention of the parties, conduct of the parties and terms

of the contract. When there is no written terms of the contract,

then it has to be ascertained from the conduct of the parties and

circumstances of the case and with the help of the provisions of Sale of Goods Act . 20. In the decision reported in Contship Container

Lines Ltd. v. D. K. Lall (AIR 2010 (SC) 1704), it has been held

that in the case of FOB contract, the goods are delivered free on

board the ship. Once the seller has placed the goods safely on

board at his cost and thereby handed over possession of the

goods to the ship in terms of the bill of lading or other

documents, the responsibility of the seller ceases and the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 92 delivery of the goods to the buyer is complete. The goods are

from that stage onwards at the risk of the buyer. In the decision

reported in Agricultural Market Committee v. Shalimar

Chemical Works Ltd. (J.T. 1997 (5) SC 272), it has been held

that by virtue of Section 19 and 20 of the Sale of Goods Act, the

title to goods passes to the purchaser as soon as the contract is

made in respect of specific goods in deliverable state and does

not depend on payment of price, and this is subject to the

contract to the contrary. So it is clear from the above dictum that

normally, the title of goods passes to the buyer in the case of an

ascertained goods at deliverable state on the date on which the

contract was made, and it will be deemed to have been

delivered at that place. If there is contract to the contrary, then

that will depend upon the terms of the contract. 21. In this case, though in the quotation given, it was

mentioned that full payment was against delivery, as per the

definition of sale, deferred payment will not prevent passing of

property to the buyer if the intention can be drawn from other

circumstances. Further, it is also clear from the dictums laid

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 93 down in the decisions cited supra that the buyer can waive the

right of inspection of the goods to be delivered and if that was

waived by him, then he will take the goods at his risk and he

cannot claim any benefit of non-inspection later. In this case, it

is clear from the evidence that there was no possibility of the

excavator being inspected by the purchaser consignee at the

time of effecting the sale because, there was no stock of

excavator available with the consignor at that time as revealed

from the report of the Intelligence Officer and the finding on this

aspect by the adjudicating officer as well as the first appellate

authority, which were not challenged by the seller, namely, the

consignor. Further, the statement of the driver recorded by the

Intelligence Officer at the time of inspection as provided under

the Rules also will go to show that the consignment was

entrusted by Viswambharan, the consignee and he had also

stated that the mobile phone number of the consignee was given

to him by the consignee. That also gives an indication that the

title in the goods passed to the buyer at the time of sale itself.

So, he becomes the owner of the property. Further, the

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 94 authorities below also have no case that the seller had retained

the title in the goods and it never passed to the buyer and that

was the reason why they had sent notice to the buyer and an

opportunity was given to him before ordering penalty as well. So,

under such circumstances, it can be safely concluded that the

title in the goods passed to the buyer in this case and he has

become the owner of the goods for the purpose of this Section. 22. Since it is found that the buyer has become the

owner of the goods, penalty can be imposed on him only if it is

proved that he had colluded with the seller in his attempt to

evade payment of tax. 23. It is seen from the documents and the enquiry

report of the Intelligence Officer, that the seller was not

authorised to deal in excavator. Further, no purchase of

excavator was shown in the stock of the seller in his return filed

by him in the month of December - 2011. Further, his stock

statement also does not show that there was any excavator

available with him as on the date when the quotation was drawn

in favour of the buyer, i.e., on 16.12.2011. The invoice that

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 95 accompanied the goods was dated 20.01.2012. There is nothing

on record to show that the excavator was available with the

seller even at that time as his stock statement does not reveal

the existence of such excavator with the seller and he was not

authorised to deal with the excavator as well. 24. Though the counsel for the buyer asserts that he

had an opportunity to verify the excavator before the invoice was

drawn, it was not possible in view of the evidence available

which would indicate that he also wanted to help the seller in

effecting the sale of the excavator for which he had no

registration to sell as well. Being a purchaser paying huge

amount, he ought to have verified whether the seller has got any

registration for sale of this article before entering into a contract

of sale with him, which he had not intentionally done. This would

indicate that he also wanted to help the seller to effect the sale

and avoid payment of tax by the seller if it was not intercepted by

the authorities. So, it cannot be said that the article intended to

be sold was at a deliverable state at the time when the contract

was alleged to have been made between the buyer and seller.

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 96 So, there is no possibility for the buyer to examine the excavator

for his satisfaction, so as to come to a conclusion that it was

delivered to him on that date. Further, the fact that payment

was reserved on the date of delivery also reveals that there was

no possibility for the buyer to examine the same and that was

the reason why the payment was postponed. All these will go to

show that the buyer is having connivance with the seller in

making the sale of the article, for which he has no registration to

sell and that the tax is not to be paid by the seller for this

transaction. 25. Further, it is seen from the letter given by the

transporter to the Intelligence Officer when he wanted to get

back his vehicle in which the excavator was transported, that the

entrustment of the excavator for delivery was made by M/s.

Indian Motors, the seller, to be delivered to buyer, namely,

Viswambaran. But the driver had given a different version that it

was entrusted by Viswambharan, the buyer, as seen from the

statement given. So, this will only go to show that even if the

consignor made arrangement to transport, it is on behalf of and

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 97 as entrusted by the buyer. 26. Further it was an admitted fact that the excavator

was intercepted by the authorities on 08.02.2012, but admittedly

the payment was effected by the bank only on 13.02.2012. The

fact of interception of the excavator by the authorities was not

informed to the bank either by the seller or by the buyer. If really

interception of the article was made known to the bank, they

would not have effected payment of the amount till the excavator

was released either by the seller or by the buyer from the

authorities. This gives an indication that the buyer was also

interested in making payment to the seller even before the

article was released by the authorities and this gives an

indication that he had colluded with the seller. 27. The fact that the purchase of excavator was not

accounted by the seller in his return will go to show that but for

the interception, he would not have paid the tax and he would

have avoided payment of tax payable to the Government and

appropriated the same for his purpose. Further, the fact that he

is not an authorised dealer for dealing with such article also

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 98 gives an indication that he would not have paid the amount

collected towards tax from the bank, but for the intervention by

the authorities. 28. The fact that the original invoice alone

accompanied the goods along with the transport of goods is

also an indication that if the article was not intercepted by the

authorities, he would not have paid the tax. Further Rule 58(11)

of the Kerala Value Added Tax Rules says that in the case of

transit as follows: 29. So, he is expected to send the triplicate bill or

duplicate bill along with the goods to satisfy the check post

authorities regarding payment of tax, which he has not done in

this case. This also gives an indication that the seller had no

intention to account this sale in his account, and he had an

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 100 intention to attempt to evade payment of tax in this case. 30. Further, the fact that the seller had not co-

operated in the proceedings also will go to show that his

intention is very clear that he had intended to evade tax, and

there was existence of attempt on the part of the seller to evade

payment of tax due to the Government. So, it is clear from the

above circumstances, that the finding arrived at by the

authorities that there was an attempt on the part of the seller to

evade payment of tax and subsequent filing of return on

17.02.2012 and payment of tax by the seller is an afterthought

and in connivance with the buyer after getting the amount from

the bank. but for the intervention of the authorities, and

detention of the article by the authorities, he would not have paid

the tax is perfectly justifiable and they were justified in coming to

the conclusion that there was attempt on the part of the seller in

evasion of payment of tax and as such the goods are liable to

be proceeded against, and penalty has to be imposed. 31. It is clear from the circumstances that the buyer

is also colluding with the seller in the attempt of evasion of tax.

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 101 It may be mentioned here that he was alleged to have paid

Rs.17,60,000/- as advance with the seller on 21.12.2011. He

had not shown the source for payment of the same. Further in

the invoice, the sale being by a registered dealer to another

registered dealer, it must contain the TIN number of the buyer

which has not been furnished by the buyer to the seller

intentionally and that was not mentioned in the invoice by the

seller as well. The contention of the counsel for the buyer that

he being the end purchaser, the non-mentioning of TIN number

is not fatal cannot be accepted because he being a works

contractor, the possibility of his giving the excavator on rent to

others, which is also deemed to be a sale for the purpose of this

Act cannot be ruled out and in such circumstances, it cannot be

said to be obtained by the buyer for his own purpose alone.

Further, he was not prepared to produce his accounts before the

Intelligence Officer, when he was called upon to produce the

same and he had submitted a reply stating that he was

permitted to compound under Section 8 of the Act for the year

2011-12 and he requested the authorities not to insist for

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 102 production of accounts for the year 2011-12 (See his reply dated

6.3.2012 as seen in the file). But, the first appellate authority, in

paragraph X at page 13 of its order, has found that no such

application has been filed and he filed even the questioning

statement for the first time, after its detection. The fact that he

had not intimated to the bank regarding the interception of the

goods, namely, the excavator by the authorities and allowing the

bank to pay the amount, which they would not have paid if the

interception so made was known to them also would indicate

that he colluded with the seller and wanted to see that the

amount reaches the seller so as to make payment of tax at a

later stage to avoid the proceedings by the authorities. Further,

the non-insisting for duplicate bill for accompanying the goods

as required under Rule 58(11), though being a registered dealer

he was aware of the procedure not insisted for the same, would

also indicate that he is also helping the seller in avoiding

payment of tax in this transaction. 32. The fact that he had overdrawn by showing an

excess amount as loan from the bank and the value required for

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 103 the purchase of the article also would indicate that there was a

fraudulent intention on the part of the buyer in making unlawful

gain in this transaction and there was an under dealing between

the buyer and the seller regarding the excess amount obtained

through bank. So, all these things will go to show that there was

a collusion and fraudulent intention on the part of the buyer as

well, in helping the seller in avoiding payment of tax, and as

such it cannot be said that he is a bona fide purchaser, without

any intention to collude with the seller in avoiding payment of tax

and the finding to that effect by the tribunal appears to be

unsustainable in law. So, even assuming that he becomes the

owner of the goods, as proceeded by the authorities in this case

and as found by this Court as well, he is also liable to be

proceeded against for the act of the seller as he had colluded

with him for this purpose, and as such he will be liable to pay the

penalty and the exoneration made by the tribunal of the buyer is

also unsustainable in law and hence the same is also liable to

be set aside on this ground. The question as to whether even if

the buyer is a bona fide purchaser and he had not colluded with

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 104 the seller in his attempt to evade payment of tax, whether the

goods can be proceeded with for the attempt to evade payment

of tax by the seller, need not be considered in the circumstances

of the case and this question is left open to be decided in an

appropriate case. Sd/=
 K. RAMAKRISHNAN
 JUDGE

sta/ss

 //True Copy//

WA.NOS.1714/12 & 121/13 & O.T.REV.NO.9/13 105