1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 03.04.2017, on
receipt of DD no. 27­A, ASI Kamal Kumar alongwith Ct. Narender

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 1 of 31
 reached in front of A­18, Swasthya Vihar, at Pan shop where
complainant Sachin Jain s/o Sh SK Jain met them and he got
recorded his statement. Complainant stated that he is working as a
distributor in Hindustan Lever Ltd., Noida. On 03.09.2017, at about
10.15 p.m, he was on a scooty alongwith his wife and he was taking
pan masala from a panwadi (betel shop owner) at the turn of
Swasthya Vihar. In the meantime, one boy who was having a desi
katta in his hand came to him and as soon as the complainant moved
towards his scooty, the said boy put a desi katta on his stomach and
snatched his gold chain weighing 4 tolas by threatening him. The
other associate of the said boy kept on sitting on the motorcycle.
Thereafter, both the boys fled away from the spot towards Preet
Vihar red light. The said boys were aged about 25­30 years. The
motorcycle used by the accused persons was of white colour. He can
identify those boys, if produced before him. On the above
mentioned statement of complainant, a rukka was prepared and a
case FIR No. 214/2017 was registered. After registration of FIR,
investigation was conducted and site plan of the place of incident
was prepared. On dated 16.09.2017, vide DD no.53­B, an
information was received that accused Ajay and Abhishek Mishra
have been arrested in the case FIR no.161/17 u/s 25 Arms Act and
they have given disclosure statements about their involvement in the
present case. On 20.09.2017, IO collected the documents from
Crime Branch and application for production of accused persons

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 2 of 31
 was moved. Thereafter, both the accused persons were interrogated
and formally arrested in this case. On 26.09.2017, TIP of both the
accused were conducted and during TIP, complainant had identified
both the accused persons. PC remand of the accused persons was
obtained for the arrest of co­accused Mohd. Asif @ Chhota Pathan
@ Babu Pathan, however, co­accused could not be arrested. After
PC remand, accused persons were sent to JC. NBWs were obtained
against co­accused Mohd. Asif. During investigation, a White
colour Apache Motorcycle was recovered at the instance of the
accused persons. The said motorcycle was found stolen from the
area of PS Shahdara against which FIR no. 330/17, u/s 379 IPC was
found registered. The weapon of offence i.e. desi katta was also
recovered. Thereafter, section 397 IPC was added. Accused
Abhishek Mishra, Ajay and Co­accused Mohd. Asif were also
found involved in FIR no. 857/16. Statements of witnesses were
recorded and after completion of the investigation, charge­sheet was
filed against accused Ajay and Abhishek Mishra as till the time of
filing of charge­sheet, accused Mohd. Asif could not be arrested. 2. After compliance of Section 207 Cr.PC, the case was
committed to the Sessions Court. Charge u/s 392 / 34 IPC was framed
against both the accused persons and a separate charge was framed
against accused Ajay u/s 397 IPC. The accused persons pleaded not
guilty and claimed trial. FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 3 of 31 3. In order to prove its case, prosecution has examined
following nine witnesses:­

(3.1) PW1 is Sachin Jain. He is the complainant/victim of
this case. PW1 has deposed on the same lines of his first statement,
he made to police. (3.2) PW2 is HC Vimal Kumar is the duty office who
recorded the FIR Ex.PW2/B. He made endorsement on rukka i.e.
Ex.PW2/A. During his evidence, he also produced the DD register
wherein DD no.27A was recorded. The copy of said DD is
Ex.PW2/B1. (3.3) PW3 is Ct.Kapil Kumar. PW3 is one of the raiding
team members which initially apprehended the accused persons. He
deposed that on 13.09.2017, Insp. Lokendra Chauhan informed him
and the other police officials that a secret informer has informed him
(Insp. Lokendra Chauhan) that the accused Abhishek Mishra is
about to come at behind the Hotel Acqua, Shastri Park, Delhi
alongwith his associate. Accused Abhishek Mishra was involved in
several cases. Insp. Lokender Chauhan immediately directed HC
Ajay to form a raiding party and take necessary action. HC Ajay
formed a raiding party consisting of PW3 and other police officials
and they reached at the red light of Shantivan. HC Ajay asked 4­5

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 4 of 31
 public persons to join the raiding party but none of them agreed and
they left without disclosing their names and addresses. At about 4.40
p.m., they reached at Bihari Building through Lohe ka pul. HC Ajay
again asked some public persons to join the raiding team but none of
them agreed. No written notice could be served due to lack of time.
At about 4.50 p.m., they reached at behind the Acqua Hotel. They
noticed that a person was sitting on a motorcycle and he was present
there alongwith one another person. Secret informer pointed towards
the person sitting on the motorcycle that he is Abhishek Mishra.
Thereafter, the secret informer left the spot. The accused was
apprehended and other person who was present alongwith accused
Abhishek Mishra was also apprehended and his name came to be
known as Ajay. One country made pistol containing four cartridges
in its magazine was recovered during the search of accused
Abhishek Mishra. During his search, one another magazine was
recovered which was containing five cartridges. The motorcycle
upon which accused Abhishek Misrha was sitting was an Apache
motorcycle bearing registration no. UP 14CV3149. In regard to the
said recovery, an FIR no.161/17 was registered at PS Crime Branch. (3.4) PW4 Ct. Lalit Kumar is another member of the raiding
team which was formed to apprehend accused Abhishek Mishra. He
also deposed on the same lines of the testimony of PW­3. Besides,
he also deposed that besides a country made pistol and a magazine,

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 5 of 31
 one mobile phone make Vivo was also recovered from from accused
Abhishek Mishra. He further deposed that one pistol having four
cartridges in its magazine was also recovered from accused Ajay.
PW4 is also the witness to the arrest of accused Abhishek and Ajay.
He deposed that for further investigation, ASI Pramod was called
from PS Central Range, Crime Branch. He further deposed that both
the accused persons had confessed about their involvement in case
FIR no. 214/17, PS Preet Vihar and that in this regard an intimation
was given to the concerned IO. (3.5) PW5 is ASI Pramod Kumar. He deposed that on
13.09.2017 Ct. Kapil handed over him the rukka and copy of FIR
no. 161/17 and thereafter, he alongwith Ct. Kapil reached near to the
Hotel Acqua where the other police officials were present alongwith
accused Ajay and Abhishek Mishra. Motorcycle (Apache) and
illegal arms had already been recovered from their possession. The
illegal arms which were already sealed were handed over to PW5
alongwith the FSL form. The pullandas were sealed with the seal of
AK. PW5 arrested the accused persons and recorded their disclosure
statements. It is further deposed that the accused persons had
confessed about their involvement in the present FIR case. He
further deposed that both the accused persons had disclosed that
they had committed the robbery of one gold chain from the place
situated near to the betel shop, Swasthya Vihar turn, Vikas Marg. FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 6 of 31
 Accused persons disclosed that they had handed over the robbed
chain to one Asif @ Chhota Pathan. PW5 brought on record the
photocopy of the disclosure statements as Mark PW5/A and Mark
PW5/B and the copy of FIR no.161/17 as Mark PW5/C and arrest
memos as Mark PW5/D and Mark PW5/E.

(3.6) PW6 ASI Kamal Kumar is the first IO of the present
case. He deposed that on 03.04.2017, he received the information
regarding an incident of robbery vide DD no.27A Ex.PW2/B1 and
on receipt of the said information, he alongwith Ct. Narender
reached at the spot where complainant Sachin met him and informed
him about the robbery of his gold chain by two persons who had
come on a motorcycle. He recorded the statement of complainant
Sachin Jain, prepared the rukka (Ex.PW6/A) and got the FIR
registered through Ct. Narender. He deposed that he prepared the
site plan of the spot at the instance of complainant which is
Ex.PW6/B. PW6 stated that he tried to find out the accused persons
but it was of no avail. (3.7) PW7 Ct. Surender Kumar is the police official who had
joined further investigation of the case. He deposed that on
28.09.2017, he alongwith Ct. Mounveer and SI Ramesh (the second
IO of the present case) appeared in Karkardooma Courts. On that
day, accused Ajay and Abhishek were produced before the court of

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 7 of 31
 Ld. MM and there, IO obtained one day PC remand of both the
accused. During PC remand, both the accused persons pointed out
the place of incident and accordingly, IO prepared the pointing out
memos which are Ex.PW7/A and Ex.PW7/B. He further deposed
that on 29.09.2017, both the accused persons were taken to Subhash
Mohalla. North Ghonda, Bhajanpura for the search of co­accused
Mohd. Asif @ Chhota Pathan @ Babu Pathan but co­accused was
not found at his house. IO again interrogated both the accused and
recorded their disclosure statements which are Ex.PW7/C and
Ex.PW7/D.

(3.8) PW8 is another police official who had joined further
investigation alongwith PW7. He deposed on the same lines of the
testimony of PW7, therefore, his testimony is not being discussed to
avoid repetition. (3.9) PW9 SI Ramesh Lal is the second IO of this case. He
deposed that information about the arrest of accused persons and
that they made a disclosure about their involvement in the present
case,was received vide DD no.53B (Mark PW9/A). Thereafter, PW9
visited the crime branch and met the IO of Case FIR no.161/17 and
in the said office, he collected the arrest papers of accused persons
alongwith their disclosure statements from ASI Pramod. PW9 seized
the said documents vide seizure memo Mark PW9/B. Thereafter, he

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 8 of 31
 moved an application for production of accused persons before the
Court of Ld.MM. He also visited the jail and interrogated the
accused persons and recorded their disclosure statements i.e.
Ex.Pw9/A and Ex.PW9/B. Both the accused persons were arrested
vide arrest memos Ex.PW9/C and Ex.PW9/D. He deposed that both
the accused persons disclosed about the particulars of their third
associate namely Mohd. Asif. He further deposed that TIP of both
the accused persons were also got conducted. He had obtained the
PC remand of both the accused persons and during PC remand, he
prepared the pointing out memos Ex.PW7/A and Ex.PW7/B.
Thereafter, he prepared the site plan of the spot Ex.PW9/E. Co­
accused Asif was searched but he could not be traced. He recorded
the disclosure statements of the accused persons i.e. Ex.PW7/C and
Ex.PW7/D. He deposed that recovery of the robbed articles could
not be effected in this case. (3.10) PW10 Sh.Dharmender Kumar is the Ahlmad of the
Court of Ld. CMM, North East, Delhi. He was summoned alongwith
the charge­sheet of case FIR no.161/17, PS Crime Branch. He
produced the charge­sheet of case FIR no.161/17 which was
containing the relevant documents. Copies of the relevant
documents regarding the initial arrest of accused persons and their
disclosure statements and other relevant documents were already
filed alongwith the charge­sheet of the present case and after

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 9 of 31
 production of the said case file, all the relevant documents were
given exhibit marks. Copy of FIR is no.161/17 was marked as
Ex.PW10/A, arrest memos as Ex.PW10/B and Ex.10/C, copy of
seizure memo as Ex.PW10/D and copies of disclosure statements
were marked as Ex.PW10/E and Ex.PW10/F. 4. After examination of prosecution witnesses, statements
of both the accused persons were recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C wherein
they have stated that they are innocent. Both the accused persons
have denied the allegations made against them. They have stated
that the police has registered many false cases against them when
they were in the judicial custody. They stated that out of those cases,
they have already been acquitted in six cases. They stated that the
present case is also a false case. Both the accused persons did not
lead any evidence to prove their innocence and thus, the DE was
closed and matter was listed for final arguments. 5. On 18.03.2021, the final arguments were advanced by
the Ld. LAC as well as Ld. Addl.PP for the State and the matter was
posted for Judgment for 05.04.2021. On 05.04.2021, the judgement
was under dictation and thus, it could not be pronounced and the
matter was adjourned to 16.04.2021. On that day, order could not be
passed as both the regular Stenographers were on leave as they had
contracted with Covid­19 and therefore, the matter was listed for

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 10 of 31
 30.04.2021. Thereafter, due to Covid­19 pandemic and in view of
the order of Hon'ble High Court, all the matters including the
present case, were adjourned en­bloc. Vide order dated 22.07.2021,
Hon'ble High Court has issued fresh directions for taking up all the
matters w.e.f. 24.07.2021 through VC. Thus, the present matter was
firstly taken up for passing the Judgement on 09.08.2021. However,
on 09.08.2021 accused were not produced therefore, Judgment was
deferred for 28.08.2021 and accused persons were again not
produced from JC, thus, again the matter was adjourned for
06.09.2021 however, even on 06.09.2021, accused persons were not
produced and they have been produced today i.e. on 21.09.2021 and
therefore, the Judgment is being delivered today as today the
accused persons have been produced from JC. 6. Arguments have been heard. During the course of
arguments, Ld. LAC has submitted that there are number of
contradictions in the testimonies of the PWs which indicate that the
case of the prosecution is highly doubtful. Ld. LAC submitted that
neither any independent public witness has been joined to the
investigation nor the betel (pan) shop owner has been made a
witness in this case. The bill of the gold chain has not been brought
on record by the prosecution to provide the proof that complainant
had such a gold chain with him. It is further submitted that in the
present case, accused persons were arrested on the basis of their

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 11 of 31
 disclosure statements and that the said disclosure statements are not
admissible in evidence. It is further stated that the accused persons
were shown to the complainant by the police and thus, their
identification during TIP by the complainant has no legal value. Ld.
LAC has pointed towards the contradictions in the testimonies of
PW3 and PW4 and stated that the said contradictions clearly show
that the present case is a planted one. Request has been made for the
acquittal of the accused persons. 7. On the other hand, Ld. Addl. PP for the State has
submitted that the prosecution has been successful in proving its
case against the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt through
the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses. He further submitted
that PW1 Sachin Jain, the complainant and star witness of this case,
has supported the prosecution case in all material aspects. PW1 has
specified the entire incident in his statement and correctly identified
the accused persons as the same persons who had committed
robbery with him. It is further stated that the other witnesses have
also very well supported the prosecution case. Thus, it has been
prayed that accused persons may be convicted for the offences they
are charged with. 8. In this case, PW1 Sachin Jain is the complainant and
victim. He is the star witness of this case and entire case of the

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 12 of 31
 prosecution rests upon his statement. He deposed that on
03.09.2017, at about 10/10.15 p.m., he alongwith his wife was
coming back to his house on a scooty and he stopped his scooty at a
betel shop for purchasing pan masala. After that he came back to
his scooty and sat on his scooty and when he was opening the pan
masala pouch, suddenly, accused (witness pointed towards accused
Ajay), came at the spot on a White colour motorcycle along with his
associate. Accused Ajay who was having a gun (desi Katta) came
near to him and put the gun on his stomach. Accused directed the
complainant to get off the scooty and asked him to hand over his
gold chain which he was wearing on his neck. Thereafter, accused
threatened to shoot him and he forcibly snatched the gold chain
from the neck of the complainant. He further stated that the other
associate of accused Ajay remained seated on the motorcycle.
Complainant stated that he was also wearing one diamond ring in
the ring finger of his right hand. Accused Ajay asked him to remove
the same and he tried to catch hold his hand but complainant hid his
right hand behind his back. Meanwhile, second accused i.e. accused
Abhishek who was also having a gun shouted 'maar sale ko goli',
however, accused Ajay turned back, sat on the motorcycle and then
both of them fled away. Accused Abhishek was driving the
motorcycle and accused Ajay was the pillion rider. He made a call
at no.100. He waited at the spot and when police did not come, he
again made a call at number 100. He further deposed that within 10­

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 13 of 31
 15 minutes, two police officials reached at the spot and he narrated
the incident to them which was recorded in his statement
Ex.PW1/A. He stated that chain could not be recovered. He further
deposed that after a few days, he was informed from PS Preet Vihar
that they have apprehended two persons and he is required to
identify both of them before the concerned Judge. He identified his
signatures on the TIP proceedings thus, both the TIP proceedings
were brought on record. The TIP of accused Ajay is Ex.PW1/B and
Abhishek is Ex.PW1/C. This witness was cross examined at length.
In the cross examination, he stated that he was alone at the time of
incident however, soon before that his wife was with him. He saw
accused Ajay for the first time when he was coming towards him
and was at a distance of about 4­5 meters from him. He saw accused
carrying a country made pistol and accused came towards him after
loading the gun. He stated that none of the accused persons was
wearing a helmet at that time. He stated that he tried to start his
scooty but in the meantime, the accused came in front of him. He
could not raise alarm due to shock. He stated that it was quite
possible for the betel shop owner to see him while he was present at
the spot. Accused Ajay had snatched his gold chain from his neck.
His gold chain was of 4 tolas and it was gifted to him by his in­
laws. He stated that he did not opt for his medical examination as he
only felt pain in his neck and there was no visible injury on his neck
due to snatching of the chain. Accused Ajay snatched his chain with

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 14 of 31
 his right hand. The gun was put on the left side of his stomach.
There was a street light just near the place where his scooty was
parked at the spot. The owner of the pan shop was standing just near
to him in his kiosk. He was informed about the apprehension of the
accused persons after about 20 days of the incident. He denied the
suggestion that IO had pointed towards the accused persons and had
asked him to identify them during judicial TIP. He denied the
suggestion that he had not seen the accused properly at the spot as it
all happened within 1­1.5 minutes and since, the incident happened
within few minutes, therefore, he could have identified the accused
only at the instance of IO. Regarding the nature of cloths worn by
the accused at the time of incident, complainant stated that accused
Ajay was wearing jeans and shirt while accused Abhishek was
wearing shorts and T­shirt at the time of incident. 9. It is pertinent to mention here that the accused persons
were represented by their private counsel until the stage of statement
of accused persons and after examination of PW1 to PW3, no other
witness was cross examined on behalf of the accused persons
despite opportunities. Perusal of the record shows that for the cross
examination of PW9 (the second IO), the opportunities were granted
on the request of accused persons but despite opportunities PW9
was not cross examined on behalf of the accused persons. 10. Before analysing the prosecution evidence, it is deemed

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 15 of 31
 appropriate to firstly deal with the submissions made by the Ld.
LAC for the accused persons. Ld. LAC has submitted that in the
present case, the investigating officer has not joined any
independent witness during the investigation. He also submitted that
the incident took place near the pan (betel) shop yet the occupant of
pan shop has not been made a witness in this case. Thus, Ld. LAC
has endeavoured to contend that prosecution case is doubtful for
non­joining the public witnesses. It is well settled law that evidence
of complainant/victim cannot be doubted merely for non­joining of
other public witnesses. It is clear that incident had taken place with
the PW1 who has fully supported the prosecution case and has
specified all the relevant details of the incident. Though, the IO
ought to have joined the betel shop owner as a witness and IO failed
to join him, however, neither the case of the prosecution would
become doubtful on this ground nor the benefit of this minor lapse
on the part of the IO can be extended to the accused persons. 11. During his submissions, Ld. LAC for the accused
persons has mainly relied upon some of the contradictions which
have surfaced in the prosecution evidence and on basis of the same,
he submitted that the prosecution could not prove its case against the
accused persons beyond reasonable doubt. Ld. LAC has pointed out
the contradictions in the testimonies of PW3 and PW4 regarding
recovery of a mobile phone. He submitted that in his examination in
chief, PW1 has stated that at the time of incident, he was coming

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 16 of 31
 back to his house with his wife while in the cross examination, he
stated that at the time of incident, he was alone. It was also
submitted that the wife of the complainant has not been made a
witness in this case. Perusal of the testimony of complainant shows
that PW1 has stated that he alongwith his wife was returning back to
his home on a scooty after purchasing flowers for his child. He
stopped his scooty at a betel shop for purchasing pan masala. The
pan masala shop is situated at the distance of about 400 meters from
his house. In cross examination, PW1 has clarified that at the time of
incident, he was alone, however, soon before that his wife was with
him. It seems that before incident, the wife of the complainant had
left the spot as their house was only 400 meters away from the spot.
Since the wife of the complainant had not witnessed the incident
therefore, there was no need to join her as a witness in this case. 12. Ld. LAC further submitted that as per PW1, incident
occurred at about 10.00 p.m, on dated 03.09.2017 while PW1 stated
that he had gone out to purchase the flowers for his child for
celebration of Teachers Day which was scheduled for 5 th
September. Ld. LAC stated that the incident took place on the night
of 03.09.2017 and thus, there was no question of purchasing flowers
on 03.09.2017 for the purpose of Teachers Day which was to be
celebrated on 05.09.2017. This Court finds no substance in this
submissions as firstly, in this regard, no clarification has been
sought from PW1 during his cross examination and secondly, it is

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 17 of 31
 quite possible that being an overcautious parent, PW1 might have
gone out to purchase the flowers, one day prior to the scheduled day. 13. It was further submitted by Ld. LAC that PW1 stated
that his chain was forcibly snatched from his neck and thus, there
should have been injury on his neck but there is no MLC on record
by which it can be inferred that the chain of the complainant was
forcibly snatched. It is clear from the record that in this regard, PW1
has specifically stated in his cross examination that he only felt pain
in his neck and there was no visible injury on his neck and due to
this reason he did not opt for his medical examination. It was further
stated by Ld. LAC that site plan does not bear the signature of PW1
which confirms that he was not present at the spot. In regard to the
site plan, it is clear that PW6 has categorically deposed that he had
prepared the site plan at the instance of PW1. Thus, the submission
of Ld. Counsel is of no consequence. 14. In regard to the contradictions in the testimony of
witnesses, in the case of State of Rajasthan Vs. Kalki , AIR 1981
SC 1390 Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed that 'in the
deposition of witnesses there are always normal discrepancies,
however honest and truthful they may be. It was further observed
that these discrepancies are due to normal errors of observations,
normal errors of memory, due to lapse of time and due to mental
disposition such as shock and horror at the time of occurrence and

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 18 of 31
 the like'. In the present case also, it is clear from the record that the
contradictions pointed out from the testimonies of witnesses are of
trivial nature and appeared to be quite natural and possible, due to
lapse of time. Thus, in view of the settled law, these contradictions
are liable to be ignored as the contradictions pointed out in this case
don't go to the root of the case. 15. It was further stated by the Ld. LAC that case of the
prosecution regarding robbery of the gold chain is doubtful as
neither the bill of gold chain nor the gold chain has been produced in
the Court. This submissions of Ld. LAC is again without substance.
It is clear from the record that PW1 has stated in the cross
examination that accused Ajay had snatched his gold chain from his
neck. His gold chain was of four tolas. The said chain was gifted to
him by his in­laws. It has been stated by PW1 that the gold chain
was a gifted one and thus, there is every possibility that PW1 might
not be having the bill of the robbed gold chain. As far as the
production of gold chain before the Court is concerned, it is clear
from the record that the incident of present case had taken place on
03.09.2017 and accused persons were arrested in another case on
14.09.2017 i.e. after about 11 days of the incident. As per record, the
accused persons had disclosed that they had given the said gold
chain to one Asif @ Chhota Pathan for selling the same. The
Investigating Officer (PW9 SI Ramesh Lal) has stated that he tried

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 19 of 31
 to find out accused Asif with the help of arrested accused persons
and he had also obtained the dossier of accused Asif but Asif could
not be traced. Perusal of the record shows that accused Asif has
already been declared a Proclaimed Offender. Thus, as per record,
the robbed gold chain was given by the accused persons to accused
Asif (Since P.O.) for sale and thus, it is apparent that the robbed
gold chain could not be recovered and consequently, the same could
not be produced before the Court by the prosecution. It is clear from
the testimony of PW1 that PW1 has specifically stated that his gold
chain was robbed and he had also identified the accused persons
before the Court. There was no reason for PW1 to identify the
accused persons as the same boys who have robbed him except that
he was robbed by them. Thus, non­production of gold chain before
the Court is inconsequential in the present case. 16. Ld. LAC further argued that in the present case accused
persons were arrested on the basis of disclosure statement which is
not admissible in evidence. As per record, in the present case, the
accused persons were arrested on the basis of disclosure statement
made by them in the case FIR No. 161/17 (Ex.PW10/A). It is not the
case that the accused persons were arrested in this case on basis of
the disclosure statement of some other accused but they have been
arrested on the basis of their own disclosure statements made in FIR
no.161/17 registered against them u/s 25 Arms Act. Further, both

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 20 of 31
 the accused persons have been correctly identified by the
complainant during TIP (TIP proceedings are Ex.PW1/B and
Ex.PW1/C) as the same boys who have committed robbery with
him. Accused Ajay has been identified by the complainant as the
same accused who had shown a country made pistol to him. Thus,
the submissions of the Ld. LAC has no merit. 17. After dealing with the submissions of Ld. LAC, now it
is to be seen whether prosecution has successfully proved the
charges against the accused persons. PW1 Sachin Jain is the victim
and most material witness of the present case. The complainant Sh.
Sachin Jain(PW­1) has supported the prosecution case in all material
particulars. Complainant has proved his statement which he had
made to the police after the incident as Ex­PW1/A. In his
deposition, complainant has brought on record all the relevant facts
and circumstances as to how and in what manner the accused
persons have committed robbery of his gold chain. He has also
stated that accused persons had come to the spot on a white colour
motorcycle. He pointed towards accused Ajay and stated that he had
come to him and he was having a gun which he had put on his
stomach and on the gun point, accused Ajay had asked the
complainant to hand over his gold chain. Complainant was
threatened that he will be shot and his gold chain was forcibly taken
from his neck. The other associate of accused Ajay remained seated

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 21 of 31
 on the motorcycle. He pointed towards Abhishek and stated that he
remained seated on the motorcycle. He further deposed that accused
Ajay directed him (complainant) to remove his diamond ring and he
tried to catch hold of his hand but complainant hid the same behind
his back. He further stated that accused Abhishek shouted "maar
sale ko goli". He also stated that accused Abhishek was also having
a gun with him and he was driving the motorcycle and accused Ajay
was the pillion rider. PW1 has stated that after taking away his
chain, the accused persons fled away on their motorcycle. PW1 has
identified both the accused persons as the same boys who
committed the offence of robbery on the point of gun(desi katta).
This witness was cross examined on behalf of both the accused
persons at length but no material contradiction surfaced during his
cross examination barring a few minor variations. During cross
examination, the complainant remained unshaken on all material
aspects. The statement of complainant that he was robbed opposite
to the A­18, Swasthya Vihar, Vikas Marg, Delh has been
corroborated by DD no.27A (Ex.PW2/B1) which was recorded at
about 22.38 p.m, on 03.09.2021, in pursuance to the call of
complainant. This DD finds mention about the incident of robbery
with the complainant on the gunpoint. No cross examination has
been conducted with regard to the authenticity of the contents of
DD no.27­A. 18. PW3 Ct. Kapil, PW4 Ct. Lalit and PW5 ASI Pramod

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 22 of 31
 are the witnesses of case FIR no.161/17 in which the accused
persons were arrested u/s 25 Arms Act. They have corroborated the
version of each other with respect to the arrest of accused. Their
testimonies remained unchalleged and thus, the prosecution has
proved that accused persons were arrested in the case FIR no.161/17
where they made disclosure statements about committing the
offence of the present case. 19. PW6 ASI Kamal Kumar is the first IO who had firstly
visited the spot after the incident. He had recorded the statement of
Complainant, prepared the rukka and got the case registered. He also
prepared the site plan. PW9 SI Ramesh Lal is the 2 nd IO. As per his
testimony, he received the information about arrest of accused vide
DD no.53B. He collected the necessary documents from the IO of
case FIR no.161/17. He moved an application for production of
accused persons. He interrogated the accused and recorded their
disclosure statements which are Ex.PW9/A and Ex.PW9/B. He
arrested the accused persons vide memo Ex.PW9/A and Ex. PW9/D.
He prepared the pointing out memos Ex.PW7/A and Ex.PW7/B. He
tried to find out accused Asif but he could not be traced. He also
recorded the disclosure statements of the accused i.e. Ex.PW7/C and
Ex.PW7/D. He also prepared the chargesheet u/s 174A IPC against
accused Asif who was declared a proclaimed offender. The
testimony of PW9 has been corroborated by PW7 Ct. Surender and
PW8 Ct. Mounveer Singh. Perusal of the testimonies of all the

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 23 of 31
 police witnesses show that they have not been cross examined on
behalf of the accused persons despite the fact that sufficient
opportunities have been given. Thus, the testimonies of all the police
officials remained unchallenged. Even otherwise, it is clear that all
the police officials have corroborated the testimonies of each other
in respect to the case of the prosecution. There is no reason to
disbelieve their testimonies. PW9 has also identified the accused
persons at the time of his statement. Thus, it is clear from the
testimonies of witnesses as well as the documents brought on record
by them i.e arrest memo, personal search memo, & disclosure
statements that both the accused were arrested in case FIR
no.161/17 where they made the disclosure statements about their
involvement in the present case and then they were arrested in this
case. Moreover, it is clear from the record that the complainant
PW1 Sachin Jain is the victim in the present case and it is well
settled law that a victim is not supposed to spare the actual offender
to falsely implicate a stranger. Thus, his testimony cannot be seen
with suspicion, especially when it does not suffer from any material
contradiction. 20. Dealing with the aspect of minor discrepancies and
contradictions the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Jugendra Singh vs State of U.P. , reported in (2012) DLT (Crl.)
794 (SC) held as under:­

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 24 of 31
 "The Court while appreciating the evidence must not
 attach undue importance to minor discrepancies. The
 discrepancies which do not shake the basic version of the
 prosecution case may be discarded. The discrepancies
 which are due to normal efforts of perception or
 observation should not be given importance. The errors
 due to lapse of memory may be given due allowance. The
 Court by calling into aid its vast experience of men and
 matters in different cases must evaluate the entire
 material on record by excluding the exaggerated version
 given by any witness. When a doubt arises in respect of
 certain facts alleged by such witness, the proper course is
 to ignore that fact only unless it goes into the root of the
 matter so as to demolish the entire prosecution story. The
 witnesses nowadays go on adding embellishments to their
 version perhaps for the fear of their testimony being
 rejected by the Court. The Courts, however, should not
 disbelieve the evidence of such witnesses altogether if
 they are otherwise trustworthy." 21. Ld. LAC submitted that the prosecution case is highly
doubtful as the prosecution has cited only one public witness i.e
PW1 whose testimony suffers from many contradictions. It is well
settled law that the evidence has to be weighed and not counted. In
this regard this court is supported by the judgment of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court reported as Karthik Malhar Vs. State of Bihar 1996 (1) RCR (Crl. 308). It is clear from the aforesaid discussions
that the complainant/PW1 as well as other prosecution witnesses
have very well supported the prosecution case and their evidence is
cogent and reliable. The contradictions pointed out by the Ld. LAC

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 25 of 31
 do not go to the root of the case. The prosecution case cannot be
discarded because of minor contradictions and for the reason that the
version of complainant is not supported by an independent witness. 22. The statements of both the accused persons were
recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C and they were supposed to
explain the above detailed incriminating circumstances which has
come on record against them. Both the accused persons have
claimed false implication and that they have been acquitted in case
FIR no.161/17. It has also been stated by the accused persons that
police had registered many false cases against them while they were
in judicial custody and out of those false cases, they have been
acquitted in six cases. The accused persons have not led any
evidence to prove their false implication. The defence taken by the
accused persons seems to be apparently false when it is seen along
with record of this case as well as testimony of prosecution
witnesses. Nothing has come on record to show that there was
animosity between the accused and complainant (PW1). Thus, there
was no reason for PW1 to falsely implicate them in this case. Further, the accused persons have also not led any evidence on
record to show that they were previously known to the complainant
or that there was any animosity between them. Thus, under these
circumstances, it can be easily inferred that the accused persons
have taken the above pleas only for the sake of a plea and there is no

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 26 of 31
 substance in it. The complainant was cross examined by Ld.
Defence Counsel, however, no material contradiction has surfaced
on record to disbelieve or discredit his testimony. The contradictions
which have emerged are insignificant and are insufficient to
discredit his testimony and the same cannot be given undue
importance in view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Jugendra Singh (supra). It is further clear
that the complainant has corroborated his complaint on all the
material points. Thus, the testimony of complainant cannot be
discarded merely for minor discrepancies in his testimony. 23. In the present case, accused Ajay has been charged u/s
397 IPC also. The desi katta (country made pistol) used by accused
Ajay has not been produced before the Court. In this regard, in the
matter of Vinay Vs. State Crl.A 45/2016, Rahul @ Chirmanti
Crl.No.63/2016, it has been observed by the Hon'ble High Court
that :­ 31. Non­production of the knife at best can be treated as
 its non­recovery. It is now well settled that recovery of
 weapon is not essential for establishing that the weapon
 had been used in commission of the crime. 24. In the matter of Ashfaq vs. State (Govt. of NCT of
Delhi ): (2004) 3 SCC 166, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has upheld

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 27 of 31
 the conviction under Section 397 of the IPC notwithstanding that the
weapon of offence was not recovered. Hon'ble Supureme Court has
observed as under:­

 "the fact that the knife was not recovered at all, or that
 the recovered weapon was not shown during the course
 of trial of the victim, would not matter as long as the eye
 witnesses to the crime are able to convincingly and
 consistently recount the fact that they were threatened by
 the sight of the accused wielding the knife into parting
 with their belongings." 25. In the matter of Murlidhar Vs. State : Crl. A.
279/2002, Hon'ble High Court while following the decision of
Hon'ble Supreme Court taken in the matter of Phool Kumar v.
Delhi Administration 1975(1) SCC 797 and Ashfaq v. State
(Govt. of NCT of Delhi) (supra) held that recovery of weapon is
not essential for sustaining a conviction under Section 397 of the
IPC. 26. Ld. LAC has submitted that the katta allegedly used by
the accused has neither been recovered in this case nor produced in
the Court, thus, no case is made out u/s 397 IPC. In the present case,
PW1 Sachin Jain has specifically stated that accused Ajay had come
near to him and he had put the gun on his stomach and then accused

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 28 of 31
 Ajay had asked PW1 to hand over his gold chain which he was
wearing on his neck. Thereafter, accused Ajay had threatened the
complainant to shoot him and then accused Ajay forcibly snatched
the gold chain of the complainant. In his cross examination, PW1
has stated that accused Ajay had snatched the chain with his right
hand. Complainant stated that the gun was put on the left side of his
stomach. It took about 1-1.5 minute in the commission of incident.
He denied the suggestion that he had not seen the accused properly
at the spot as it all happened within 1-1.5 minutes. He also denied
the suggestion that since the incident occurred in few minutes
therefore, during TIP, he could have identified the accused only at
the instance of IO. During cross examination, no suggestion was
given to PW1 that accused Ajay did not use the desi katta at the time
of commission of the offence. The testimony of PW1 clearly
indicates that desi katta was used by accused Ajay in the
commission of the offence. Thus, the submission of Ld. LAC has no
merit. Thus, in view of the legal position discussed above, accused
Ajay is guilty of using desi katta(country made pistol) in the
commission of the offence despite the fact that katta has not been
produced during evidence. 27. Ld. LAC also submitted that the complainant has not
assigned any role to accused Abhishek in this case. There is again no
substance in this submission as perusal of the evidence of PW1
shows that he has clearly stated in his statement that accused Ajay

FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 29 of 31
 had come to the spot alongwith his associate on a White colour
motorcycle. He stated that the associate of accused Ajay remained
seated on the motorcycle. PW1 has identified the accused Abhishek
as the associate of accused Ajay. He also identified him during the
TIP. PW1 further sated that accused Ajay tried to catch hold his
hand but he hid his right hand behind his back, meanwhile second
accused i.e. accused Abhishek shouted "maar sale ko goli". He also
stated that accused Abhishek was also having a gun with him. In
cross examination of PW1 the fact that accused Abhishek had
shouted "maar sale ko goli" has not been disputed. PW1 has
categorically described the role of accused Abhishek in the
commission of the offence. As per PW1, accused Abhishek Mishra
had come to the spot with accused Ajay on the date of incident. He
was driving the motorcycle and accused Ajay was riding on the rear
seat. The facts and circumstances of the case clearly indicate that
both the accused have committed the offence of the instant case in
furtherance of their common intention. 28. In view of the aforesaid discussions, it is held that
prosecution has successfully established the charges against both the
accused persons that they with their common intention robbed the
complainant Sachin Jain on the date, time and at the place as
deposed by the complainant in his testimony and while committing
robbery, the accused Ajay had used a country made pistol (desi
katta). FIR No.214/2017 State Vs.Ajay etc. Page no. 30 of 31 29. In view of the aforesaid discussions, it is held that the
prosecution has successfully proved its case against the accused
persons. Thus, both the accused namely Ajay and Abhishek Mishra
are held guilty for the offence punishable u/s 392 / 34 IPC and
accused Ajay is separately held guilty u/s 397 IPC and both the
accused persons are convicted accordingly. 30. Accused Asif @ Chhhota Pathan is a Proclaimed
Offender in this case. Thus, prosecution will be at liberty to have
the case revived as and when accused Asif @ Chhota Pathan
(Since P.O.) is arrested.