K.M. JOSEPH, J. 1. A Bench of two judges doubted the

 correctness of the judgment rendered by a Bench of

 two learned judges of this Court in CCE v. SKF India Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by DEEPAK GUGLANI Date: 2019.05.08 16:13:50 IST Reason: Ltd. 2009 (13) SCC 461 (hereinafter referred to as 1 the “SKF Case”) as also the another judgment

rendered by the same Bench in CCE v. International

Auto Ltd. 2010 (2) SCC 672 and on the said basis to

resolve the controversy the matter stood posted

before us. 2. Very briefly put, the question which we are

called upon to consider and resolve is as to whether

interest is payable on the differential excise duty

with retrospective effect that become payable on the

basis of escalation clause under Section 11AB of the

Central Excise Act, 1944 (hereinafter referred to

as “the Act”). 3. In this batch of appeals, we will treat C.A.

No.2150/2012 as the leading case. We will refer to

the said case as the SAIL Case. In the said case

originally, the appellant company which is

manufacturer of various products including rail 2 sold the same to the Indian Railways. The products

were cleared on sale from 1st January, 2005 to July

2006. The goods were cleared on the payment of

excise duty on the payment of price which was fixed

based on their circular dated 24.04.2005.

Subsequently, the prices were enhanced by way of

price circular dated 20.07.2006. The revision came

into effect with retrospective effect. It is based

on the same that SAIL deposited Rs.142 crores by way

of excise duty. This was done in August 2006.

Thereupon, the officers of the department indulged

in correspondence with SAIL seeking details

regarding the clearances which were effected. On

the basis of material made available, SAIL was

called upon to remit interest under Section 11AB of

the Act. SAIL filed its objections. It is after

considering the objections, the authority found

that SAIL was liable to pay interest on a sum of 3 Rs.142 crores calculated based on the date of

removal of the goods during the period from January,

2005 to July,2006. Various objections raised by

the appellants were dealt with and they were found

merit less. An appeal was carried before the

Tribunal. The Tribunal relied upon the judgment of

this Court in SKF India Ltd. Case (supra) and

accordingly dismissed the appeal. Thereafter when

the matter came up before this Court, a Bench of two

learned judges after elaborately hearing the matter

doubted the correctness of the decision in SKF case

and also International Auto and hence the cases were

referred to us in the decision reported in 2015 (16)

SCC 107. We heard learned counsel for the parties. 4. In SKF case also the assessee on the basis

of revision of prices with retrospective effect paid

the differential duty on being called upon to pay

the said amount. Thereafter the Revenue called 4 upon the assesee to pay interest under Section 11AB of the Act. A Bench of two learned judges after

considering Sections 11A and 11AB disapproved the

judgment of the Bombay High Court in CCE v. Rucha

Engineering P.Ltd . holding inter alia as follows: 5. The same Bench in International Auto case

came to reiterate the same view in the latter

decision. The Bench also proceeded to distinguish

the decision in MRF Ltd. v. Collector of Central

Excise, Madras 1997 (5) SCC 104. This is what the

court has laid down in regard to MRF case in

paragraph 9. “9. In our view, with the entire change
 in the scheme of recovery of duty under
 the Act, particularly after insertion of
 Act 14 of 2001 and Act 32 of 2003, the
 judgment of this Court in MRF
 Ltd. [(1997) 5 SCC 104 : (1997) 92 ELT
 309] would not apply. That judgment was
 on interpretation of Section 11-B of the
 Act, which concerns claim for refund of
 duty by the assessee. That judgment was
 in the context of the price list approved
 on 14-5-1983. In that case, the assessee
 had made a claim for refund of excise duty
 on the differential between the price on
 the date of removal and the reduced price 7 at which tyres were sold. The price was
 approved by the Government. In that case,
 the assessee submitted that its price
 list was approved by the Government on
 14-5-1983, but subsequent thereto, on
 account of consumer resistance, the
 Government of India directed the assessee
 to roll back the prices to pre-14-5-1983
 level and on that account, price
 differential arose on the basis of which
 the assessee claimed refund of excise
 duty which stood rejected by this Court
 on the ground that once the assessee had
 cleared the goods on classification, the
 assessee became liable to payment of duty
 on the date of removal and subsequent
 reduction in the prices for whatever
 reason cannot be made a matter of concern
 to the Department insofar as the
 liability to pay excise duty was
 concerned.” 6. A Bench of two learned judges who have

referred the cases felt that the MRF decision would

continue to prevail, the value at the time of removal

of the goods alone would govern the Situation which

is a fundamental principle which continues to hold

good till now. The additional duty to be paid in

future cannot be treated as attracting the concept

of “short payment”. Though the differential duty may 8 be payable but the interest is not payable. The

interest clock would start ticking from the date the

differential duty is due, that is, the day on which

the parties agree upon the escalated price and not

before. The expression “ought to have been paid”

found in Section 11AB was not considered by this

Court in SKF case, it was pointed out. The Court

felt that SKF Case runs contrary to the Constitution

Bench decision in JK Synthetics and interest cannot

be demanded by way of damages or compensation. 7. In our view, the following questions will

fall to be decided by us: 8. Before we proceed to deal with the matter in

greater detail, we must at once notice the following

finding in the reference order passed by this Court

in Steel Authority of India vs. CCE (supra): According to him in the cases falling in the
 first category, even the differential duty
 is not payable. However, all these
 appeals fall in the second category and,
 therefore, we are not indulging in any
 discussion pertaining to the first 11 category. We may also point out that in
 all these appeals, the period in dispute
 (i.e. the period in which supplementary
 invoices on account of price revision were
 raised) is post the introduction of the
 “transaction value” definition in Section
 4 of the 1944 Act but before 2010. 22. It is a common case of the parties and
 even the learned counsel for the assessee
 admits that in non-fixed price scenario,
 differential duty is liable to be paid on
 subsequent revision of price which the
 assessee had already paid the differential
 duty at or about the time when revised price
 was agreed upon by the seller and the buyer.
 The question, however, is as to whether
 interest thereon is payable from the date
 of clearance of goods when duty was paid on
 the basis of invoice, till the date when
 differential duty was paid.”

Therefore, we proceed further in this matter on the

basis that the price at the time of removal is not

fixed. That is, the price is subject to revision

under the escalation clause. There is also

admittedly no dispute raised either before the Bench

which referred the matter or before us by the learned

counsel for the appellant that differential duty is 12 indeed payable on the subsequently revised price

which is to operate with retrospective effect. 9. At this juncture we think it apposite to

refer to the facts in MRF case ( MRF Limited v.

Collector of Central Excise, Madras ). MRF Case was

decided on 12.3.1997 and it is reported in 1997 (5)

SCC 104. The appeal was filed in this Court against

the order passed by the Tribunal dated 24.9.1986.

By the impugned order the assessee’s claim for

refund of excess duty paid on differential price on

the date of removal and the reduced price was

rejected. The case set up by the assessee was that

the price list was approved on 14.5.1983.

Subsequently, there was resistance by the

consumers. The Ministry of Commerce, Government of

India, thereupon directed the manufacturer-

assessee pursuant to a decision taken in a meeting

of Manufacturers to bring down the prices to the pre 13 14.5.1983 level. On the basis of the same a

difference in the prices arose. This led to a claim

for refund. The Tribunal was of the view that the

prices at the time of removal alone mattered. The

subsequent reduction in the prices for whatever

reason was totally irrelevant. Thereafter, the

court proceeded to hold as follows: Besides as rightly observed by the
 Tribunal the subsequent fluctuation in
 the prices of the commodity can have no
 relevance whatsoever so far as the 14 liability to pay excise duty is
 concerned. That being so, even if we
 assume that the roll back in the price of
 tyres manufactured by the appellant
 Company was occasioned on account of the
 directive issued by the Central
 Government, that by itself, without
 anything more, would not entitle the
 appellant to claim a refund on the price
 differential unless it is shown that
 there was some agreement in this behalf
 with the Government and the latter had
 agreed to refund the excise duty to the
 extent of the reduced price. That being
 so, we see no merit in this appeal brought
 by the assessee and dismiss the same with
 no order as to costs.” 10. We may at once notice a feature which stands

out. In the MRF case at the time when the goods were

removed, the prices were fixed and there was

absolutely no occasion for the assessee or the

department to even contemplate a price revision

either upwards or downwards. The price was not

provisional. Therefore, we would think that out of

the two situations which are noted in paragraph 21

of the Reference Order, the first situation would

be comparable to the facts of the decision obtaining 15 in MRF case. In case where the price is fixed there

would be no occasion for the assessee to seek refund

but here in the case before us, admittedly the case

does not fall under the first category even

according to the appellants. It could be said that

the price was subject to variation based on the

operation of the price escalation clause. Now the

time is ripe for us to consider the statutory

framework under the Act and the Rules made under the

Act. Section 2(h) of the Act defines sale and

purchase as follows: 11. Interestingly, unlike under the definition

of Sale of Goods Act, 1930 , “sale” under the Act

takes place on transfer of possession. However we 16 need not say anything further as it is not necessary

for the cases at hand. Section 3 is the charging

section. With effect from 1.7.2000 under the Finance

Act of 2000, Section 4 of the Act which is crucial

for our case reads as follows: 12. Section 11A was inserted in the year 1980 and

it underwent changes. Section 11A of the Act as it

stood at the relevant time read as follows: [(a) in the case of excisable goods on
 which duty of excise has not been
 levied or paid or has been
 short-levied or short-paid - (A) where under the rules made
 under this Act a periodical
 return, showing 20 particulars of the duty
 paid on the excisable goods
 removed during the period
 to which the said return
 relates, is to be filed by
 a manufacturer or a
 producer or a licensee of a
 warehouse, as the case
 may be, the date on which
 such return is so filed; (B) where no periodical return
 as aforesaid is filed, the
 last date on which such
 return is to be filed under
 the said rules; (C) in any other case, the date
 on which the duty is to be
 paid under this Act or the
 rules made thereunder;]” 13. Section 11AB is undoubtedly the most crucial

Section as far as this case is concerned. Section

11AB read as follows: 14. It is also now relevant to notice certain

rules under the Central Excise Rules, 2002. Rules

4,5,6,7 and 8 read as under: Explanation. - If any excisable goods are
used within the factory, the date of
removal of such goods‘ shall mean the date
on which the goods are issued for such
use. (3) omitted. RULE 6. Assessment of duty.- The assessee
shall himself assess the duty payable on
any excisable goods: 15. Excise duty is a duty on manufacture or

production of goods. It is, however, collected at

the point of removal of goods. When the duty of

excise is chargeable with reference to the value of

goods, Section 4 provides that on each removal of

the goods, the value will be determined either under

clause(a) or clause(b). We are in these cases

governed by clause(a). Section (4) yields the

following elements: - 28 The price may be what is actually paid or what

 is payable for the goods when sold. Apart from what is shown as the price the

 transaction value would include: 16. Thus, the intent is to determine the value

by not only including the actual price paid or

payable but all amounts which are separately

enumerated and found mention as hereinbefore. 17. Now it is time to look at the effect of the

rules relevant for the purpose of this case. Rule

4 falls under the heading ‘duty payable on removal’. 30 It is contemplated that duty is to be paid on the

goods in the manner provided under Rule 8 or under

any law. No excisable good on which duty is payable

can be removed without payment of excise duty unless

otherwise provided. This would take us to Rule 8

as there is no case that any other law is applicable.

Rule 8 under the heading ‘manner of payment’

declares that duty on the goods removed from the

factory etc. during a month shall be paid by the 5th

day of the following month. Removal however in the

month of March will entail liability to pay by 31st

day of March. Sub-rule 3 of Rule 8 provides for

liability with the assessee who fails to pay the

amount by the due date. Sub rule 4 refers to

liability to pay interest. It is amply clear that

the expression ‘due date’ would be 5th day of the

month following the month during which the goods are

removed except with regard to the goods removed 31 during the month of March in which case the due date

would be 31st day of March. 18. The scheme of the rules further is that

assessment is to be done by the assessee itself by

way of self-assessment and the duty paid by the due

date (see Rule 6). What is to happen when the

asssessee is confronted with a situation when it is

unable to determine the value of the goods or find

the rate of duty. Rule 7 provides the solution.

The assessee can thereunder apply giving reasons and

seeking permission to make a provisional

assessment. The officer may, grant such

permission. Thereupon, duty is payable on a

provisional basis. The value or the rate would be

indicated by the officer in the order permitting

such provisional assessment. This is however made

subject to the assessee executing a bond binding the

assessee to pay the difference between the duty as 32 payable under the final assessment and the

provisional assessment. The final assessment is to

be made within six months from the date of

communication of the order permitting provisional

assessment under Rule 7(1). The period can be

extended by the Commissioner for six months and by

the chief Commissioner for which there is no time

limit. Sub-rule (4) of Rule 7 is very crucial. It

provides as follows:- Rule 7(5) contemplates interest on refund based

 on the final assessment. 19. Now it is important that we delve upon the

case of SAIL before the Commissioner, its stand in

the appeal and finally before this Court. As

already noticed SAIL sold and cleared rails to

Indian Railways based on the price circular dated

24/04/2005. The transaction in question related to

the period 01/01/2005 to July, 2006. Later, based

upon a revised price circular dated 20/07/2006, the

prices were revised and it took effect from

01/01/2005. The excise duty undoubtedly in a sum of

Rs. 142.78 crores came to be paid by SAIL in August

2006. However, upon receipt of notice under Section 11AB of the Act calling upon it to pay more

than Rs. 15 crores as interest under Section 11AB.

SAIL raised various objections. It, in fact,

contended that this is not a case of short payment 34 of duty as the price at the time of actual removal

of goods formed the basis for which duty was duly

paid. It was not liable to pay the differential

duty. Rebutting the case of the department, it was

contended that it was not liable to resort to

provisional assessment under Rule 7. The

Commissioner however, took the view that the price

which were shown originally by SAIL was itself

provisional. It was a case where the assessee

should have invoked Rule 7 and proceeded to make the

provisional assessment. In appeal before the

Tribunal, the assessee-SAIL continued with its

contention that it actually was not liable to pay

the differential duty. The Tribunal as already

noticed following the judgment of this Court in SKF

case (supra) which came to be delivered by that time

dismissed the appeal of the assessee. Before the

Bench which referred the matters to this Bench 35 however, the appellants have made it clear that they

are indeed liable to pay the differential duty. We

have noticed that stand which has been expressly

recorded by this Court in paragraphs 21-22 of the

reference order. 20. Much reliance has been placed by the

appellants on the decision of this Court in J K

Synthetics. The first decision is the decision of

this Court in Associated Cement. The said decision

was rendered by a Bench of three learned judges.

There was a cleavage of opinion. Justice E.S.

Venkataramiah, as His Lordship then was wrote the

majority judgment. Justice P.N. Bhagwati as His

Lordship then was dissented. The case arose under

the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act . The two relevant

provisions to be noticed under the statute

considered by the said Bench are Sections 7 and Section 11B of the Act. They read as follows: 36 The difference, if any, of the tax payable
according to the return and the advance
tax paid shall be deposited with the
return and the return shall be
accompanied by the treasury receipt, or
receipts, of any Bank authorised to 37 receive money on behalf of the State
Government, for the full amount of tax due
shown in the return

(3) If any dealer discovers any omission,
error, or wrong statement in any returns
furnished by him under sub-section (1),
he may furnish a revised return in the
prescribed manner before the time
prescribed for the submission of the next
return but not later. (4) Every deposit of tax made under
sub-section (2) shall be deemed to be
provisional subject to necessary
adjustments in pursuance of the final
assessment of tax made for any year under section 10 ." “11-B. Interest on failure to pay tax, fee
or penalty – (a) If the amount of any tax
payable under sub-sections (2) and (2-A)
of Section 7 is not paid within the period
allowed, or (b)If the amount specified in any notice
of demand, whether for tax, fee or
penalty, is not paid within the period
specified in such notice, or in the
absence of such specification, within 30
days from the date of service of such
notice, the dealer shall be liable to pay
simple interest on such amount at one per
cent per month from the day commencing
after the end of the said period for a
period of three months and at one and a
half per cent per month thereafter during
the time he continues to make default in
the payments; 38 Provided that, where, as a result, of
 any order under this Act, the amount, on
 which interest was payable under this
 section, has been reduced, the interest
 shall be reduced accordingly and the
 excess interest paid, if any, shall be
 refunded; Provided further that no interest
 shall be payable under this section on
 such amount and for such period in respect
 of which interest is paid under the
 provisions of Sections 11 and 14 .” 21. In Associated Cement Ltd., the majority was

dealing with the case falling under Section 11B(a).

After analyzing the various provisions the majority

took the view that not only the assessee should have

paid the tax on the basis of the return but the return

must be a return which it ought to have filed in law

and on facts. Justice Bhagwati who dissented

however, took exception to this reasoning and found

that such an interpretation would raise conflicts

between the provisions contained in clause (a) and

clause(b) of Rule 11B. Justice Bhagwati in his 39 dissent pointed out the anomaly behind the reasoning

of the majority. In particular, we may point out

that it was noticed by the learned Judge that if the

reasoning of the majority is accepted, different

rates of interest would apply at different stages.

Furthermore, it was reasoned that an assessee cannot

do beyond paying the tax according to the return.

He cannot possibly divine what the assessing officer

will finally assess him to. In fact, in the later

judgment in JK Synthetics, the Constitution Bench

subscribed to the view expressed in the dissenting

judgment in ACC Ltd. case which it accepted as laying

down the correct position in law and overruled the

majority in Associated Cement Co. case. In the JK

Synthetics judgment also the case arose under the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act though it arose under Section 7(2)(A) . The case in Associated Cement

case fell under under Section 7(2) of the Act. What 40 is relevant for our purpose are two aspects. One

is we must bear in mind the actual provisions of the

Rajasthan tax law which fell for consideration that

we have already set forth. We must advert to the

law which has been laid down in JK Synthetics.

Following is the discussion: But it must also be realised that
provision by which the authority is
empowered to levy and collect interest,
even if construed as forming part of the
machinery provisions, is substantive law
for the simple reason that in the absence
of contract or usage interest can be
levied under law and it cannot be
recovered by way of damages for wrongful
detention of the amount. (See Bengal
Nagpur Railway Co. Ltd. v. Ruttanji
Ramji [AIR 1938 PC 67 : 65 IA 66 : 67 CLJ
153] and Union of India v. A.L. Rallia
Ram [(1964) 3 SCR 164, 185-90 : AIR 1963
SC 1685] ). Our attention was, however,
drawn by Mr Sen to two cases. Even in those
cases, CIT v. M. Chandra Sekhar [(1985)
1 SCC 283 : 1985 SCC (Tax) 85 : ( 1985) 151
ITR 433] and Central Provinces Manganese
Ore Co. Ltd. v. CIT [(1986) 3 SCC 461 : Therefore, so long as the assessee pays
the tax which according to him is due on
the basis of information supplied in the
return filed by him, there would be no
default on his part to meet his statutory
obligation under Section 7 of the Act and,
therefore, it would be difficult to hold
that the ‘tax payable’ by him ‘is not
paid’ to visit him with the liability to
pay interest under clause (a) of Section
11-B. It would be a different matter if
the return is not approved by the
authority but that is not the case here.
It is difficult on the plain language of
the section to hold that the law envisages
the assessee to predicate the final
assessment and expect him to pay the tax
on that basis to avoid the liability to
pay interest. That would be asking him to
do the near impossible.” 44 22. In short, therefore, the principle may be

taken to be established that while levy of interest

is a part of the adjective law, yet to levy interest

there must be substantive provision. Demand for

interest can be made only if the legislature has

specifically intended collection of interest. We

must look at the statutory provisions. 23. In Purolator India Limited Vs. Commissioner

of Central Excise 2015 (10) SCC 715, a Bench of two

learned Judges was called upon to decide the

question as to whether cash discount and trade

discount are to be deducted for arriving at the

transaction value. The Bench went on to consider section 4 of the Act prior to its amendment in 1973,

after the amendment in 1973 and also still further

after the amendment in the year 2000. After

elaborate consideration of the matter, the Bench 45 speaking through Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman held

as follows: Once this becomes clear, what the learned
counsel for the assessee has argued must 47 necessarily be accepted inasmuch as cash
 discount is something which is “known” at
 or prior to the clearance of the goods,
 being contained in the agreement of sale
 between the assessee and its buyers, and
 must therefore be deducted from the sale
 price in order to arrive at the value of
 excisable goods “at the time of removal”. 24. No doubt, there are decisions of the High

Court which followed in MRF Ltd. [see 2007 (207) ELT

31, Punjab and Haryana] to the effect that a

subsequent reduction in prices would not entitle the

assessee to lay a claim for refund. In 2010(257)

ELT 369, Karnataka, the Division Bench of Karnataka

High Court distinguished the judgment of this Court

in SKF India Ltd.(supra) by noting that in the said

case after the goods were initially cleared and

appropriate duty had been paid, subsequently the

price escalation was due to the increase in input

labour and other costs which was determined by the

All India Industrial Prices Indices and by the

Reserve Bank of India nominated by All India 48 Electrical Manufacturer Association. In terms of

the said direction, the court noted that

supplementary invoices were issued. It was noted

that the assessee had also paid differential price.

It is undoubtedly the case of the appellant that the

SLP carried against the said judgment has been

dismissed. We notice that this Court has given no

reasons while dismissing the SLP. 25. In India Carbon Ltd. & Ors. vs. State of

Assam 1997 (6) SCC 479 there was delay in payment

of central sale tax. The appellants were called

upon to pay interest of 24% per annum by the sale

tax authorities of the state of Assam under the Assam

Sales Tax Act. Following the judgment of the

Constitution Bench in J.K. Synthetics v. CCE (supra)

among other judgments, the court inter alia went on

to hold that there is no substantive provision in

the Central Act requiring payment of interest under 49 the Central Sales Tax Act . Though Section 9(2) was

pressed into service by the Revenue and the said

provision did refer to the power to recover interest

under the State Act noticing the absence of any power

to recover interest under the Central Act in respect

of tax due under the Central Act, the Court took the

view that interest could not be demanded from the

appellant. CASE LAW UNDER THE INCOME TAX ACT. 26. Appellants have sought to derive support

from certain judgments rendered by this Court under

the Income Tax Act . In E.D. Sassoon & Co. Ltd. v.

CIT AIR 1954 SC 470, the appellant company which

was the managing agent of certain companies agreed

to transfer their agencies to two companies.

Amounts were received on formal deeds of conveyance

and transfer being executed in the year 1944. The

entire amount of the managing agency commission 50 received by the transferees were assessed by the

officers as income of the transferees for the year

1945-1946. In appeal the contention of the

transferees was accepted, in that it was found that

commission received by them should be apportioned

on the proportionate basis and they were to be

assessed on the commission earned during the period

they had worked as managing agents of the respective

companies. Proceedings were commenced against the

appellant who were transferors’ of the commission

agency in regard to the amounts of the commission

earned prior to the date of the respective

transfers. The case of the transferor inter alia

was that no part of the commission for the broken

period of 1943 was earned by them. The contract of

employment was an entire indivisible contract. The

Court had to consider the connotation of the word

“earned” which was used in Section 4 of the Income 51 Tax Act which fell for consideration. The majority

judgment inter alia held as follows: 55. The whole difficulty has arisen
because the High Court could not
reconcile itself to the situation that
the transferees had not worked for the
whole calendar year and yet they would be
held entitled to the whole income of the
year of account; whereas the transferors
had worked for the broken periods and yet
they would be held disentitled to any
share in the income for the year. If the
work done by the transferors as well as
the transferees during the respective
periods of the year were taken to be the
criterion the result would certainly be
anomalous. But the true test under Section 4(1)(a) of the Income Tax Act is
not whether the transferors and the
transferees had worked for any particular
periods of the year but whether any income
had accrued to the transferors and the
transferees within the chargeable
accounting period. It is not the work done
or the services rendered by the person but
the income received or the income which
has accrued to the person within the
chargeable accounting period that is the
subject-matter of taxation. That is the
proper method of approach while
considering the taxability or otherwise 54 of income and no considerations of the
 work done for broken periods or
 contribution made towards the ultimate
 income derived from the source of income
 nor any equitable considerations can make
 any difference to the position which
 rests entirely on a strict interpretation
 of the provisions of Section 4(1)(a) of
 the Income Tax Act.” 27. In Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras v. A.

Gajapathy Naidu, Madras AIR 1964 SC 1653, a Bench

of three learned Judges had to deal with the

following factual scenario. The respondent had

entered into a contract with the government for

supplying bread. He was maintaining his accounts

on mercantile basis. Amount due was credited to his

account sometime later. The respondent

represented to the Government complaining that he

was supplying bread at a loss. Therefore,

Government directed payment of compensation for the

loss which was supplied in 1948-1949. He received

a certain sum during the year 1950-1951. This 55 amount was included by the officer in the assessment

year 1951-1952. One of the contentions of the

appellant assessee was that he had received sum in

respect of the contract which was executed in the

year 1948-1949 and therefore it could not be

included in the assessment year 1951-1952. This

Court proceeded on the basis that amount received

by way of compensation was taxable. It went on to

consider the question whether the assessee had been

assessed correctly in the year 1951-1952. This

Court allowed the appeal and took the view that the

respondent-assessee was correctly assessed in the

year 1951-1952. It referred the case of E.D.

Sassoon & Co. Ltd. v. CIT (supra) which we have

already referred to. The Court held inter alia as

follows: 28. In Vikrant Tyres Ltd. v. First Income Tax

Officer, Mysore 2001(3) SCC 76 under an assessment

order under the Income Tax Act, 1961 the appellant

assessee paid the tax. On his appeal being allowed

the tax was refunded. The High Court reversed the

Appellate order. On fresh demands being made the

assessee repaid the tax as assessed and demanded.

The revenue demanded payment of interest under Section 220(2) of Income Tax Act, 1961 for the period

commencing with the refund of the tax. This Court

allowed the appeal filed by the assessee and took

the view that no tax could be levied or imposed by

an act of Parliament without the words “clearly

disclosing such an intention”. Finding there was

no default in payment within the time by the assessee

it was found that invocation of Section 220 was

misplaced. This Court purported to follow the

decision in V.V.S. Sugars vs. Govt. of A.P. and 60 Others 1999(4) SCC 192 (India Carbon vs. VBS

Sugar). The last judgment we would advert to under

the Income Tax Act was rendered by one among us

(Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi) and the decision is

P.G. & W. Sawoo (P) Ltd. v. CIT & Ors. 2017(13) SCC 284. The facts of the said case in a nutshell was

as follows: Under Clause 5A of the Sugarcane (Control) Order

1966, additional price was payable which would be

determined only at the end of the year. On the

advice of the Government the manufacturer paid the

additional price as advance at the time of purchase

from the farmers and it was subsequently adjusted

under Clause 5A. In proceedings under the Tamil 63 Nadu General Sales Tax Act 1959, the assessee showed

the turnover on the basis of minimum price and paid

tax thereon. It did not pay tax on the additional

price which has been paid but it was included in the

turnover. When the price was fixed under Clause 5A,

the appellant filed revised return and paid tax.

Interest was sought to be charged under Section

24(3) on the price fixed under Clause 5A from the

date of purchase of sugarcane till the payment of

tax. The appellants contended before this Court

that the price determined under Clause 5A would be

known only after it was determined. Only then the

same would be includable in the returns. The

advances given on advice from Government were merely

ad hoc payments and did not constitute the price. 32. Under the Tamilnadu Sales Tax Act, the

dealers were given an option to pay tax in advance 64 on the basis of monthly return. Under Section 13(1) which provided for advance payment of tax, the tax

could be collected in advance in monthly or

prescribed instalment. The assessing authority

could provisionally determine the amount, payable

in advance and intimate the dealer to pay the tax.

Sub-section (2) of Section 13 provided that the

dealer may at his option pay tax in advance on the

basis of his actual turnover for each month or for

such other period as prescribed. Tax under this

provision was to be paid on the basis of return to

be filed by him. It was also to become due without

any notice of demand to the dealer inter alia. The

Court proceeded to take the view that in the monthly

returns, the advance which was received by the

assessee should have been included as part of the

turnover. When it came to the question relating to

liability to interest, the Court referred to Section 65 24 of the Act. Section 24(3) provided for interest.

It read as follows: The Court drew support from the decision in JK

Synthetics Ltd. (supra). We may also notice the

following discussion: Section 11A is a provision for recovery. If there

is a non-levy, non-payment, short-levy or

short-payment, the same becomes recoverable under

Section 11A. If there is any of the four

contingencies referred to in Section 11A, then

Section 11AB is attracted. The working of the

parent Act is intricately intertwined with the

rules, the scope of which we have already referred 69 to. Therefore, if the value which is declared by

way of self-assessment, by way of rule 6 and on which

the duty is paid is not the full value then under

the scheme of Section 11A read with Section 11AB and

the Rules, the assessee incurs liability for

interest when in a case where there is full value

found and it dates back to the date of removal. 36. We have noticed that in this case admittedly

that at the time goods were removed the price was

not fixed. The assessee was fully conscious of the

fact that it was subject to variation. Assessee

must be imputed with knowledge that the value it was

declaring was amenable to upward revision. The

circumstances were indeed clearly both apposite and

appropriate for the assessee to invoke the

provisions of Rule 7 and seek an order for

provisional assessment. In fact, take the example 70 of manufacturer A and manufacturer B. Both remove

goods under contracts which contain escalation

clauses. Manufacturer A invokes Rule 7. It seeks

permission for removal of goods on provisional

assessment. Though an order of final assessment

has to be passed within a period of time it is capable

of being extended without any time limit.

Manufacturer-A on the basis of upward revision of

the price with retrospective effect and

acknowledging the value to be the value as

provisionally assessed and as enhanced by the

escalation arrived at under the escalation clause

pays the duty when the escalation comes into effect

on the difference in the value under Rule 7. Apart

from payment of the differential excise duty

manufacturer A becomes also liable to pay interest

from the date when the escalation would come into

play on the arrival at the higher price having 71 retrospective operation. Manufacturer B in

identical facts clears the goods on the basis of

self-assessment even though he is fully aware that

the value of the goods which is paid is not fixed

and is amenable to upward revision. He

deliberately chooses not to go in for provisional

assessment. Thereafter, he pleads that though he

was aware that the value is not fixed and the prices

on removal was tentative and was amenable to change

since he has paid duty on the tentative value he is

not liable to pay interest on the value of the goods

on the differential duty which he is admittedly

liable to pay. Is it contemplated? 37. It was by Act No.26 of 1978 that Sections

11A, 11B and 11C were inserted in the Act. Though

it was inserted by Act 26 of 1978, it was brought

into force only in 1980. The words “levy, not paid,

short levy and erroneously refunded” were not 72 expressions which were however introduced for the

first time through Section 11A. Rule 10 of the

Central Excise Rules 1944 made under the Act as it

read was as follows: Explanation.—Where the service of the
notice is stayed by an order of a court,
the period of such stay shall be excluded
in computing the period of six months, or
five years, as the case may be. (2) The Assistant Collector of Central
Excise shall, after considering the
representation, if any, made by the
person on whom notice is served under
sub-rule (1), determine the amount of
duty due from such person (not being in
excess of the amount specified in the
notice) and thereupon such person shall
pay the amount so determined. (3) For the purposes of this rule,— (i) ‘refund’ includes rebate referred to
in Rules 12 and 12-A; (ii) ‘relevant date’ means,— (a) in the case of excisable goods on
which duty of excise has not been levied
or paid or on which duty has been
short-levied or has not been paid in full,
the date on which the duty was required
to be paid under these rules; (b) in the case of excisable goods on
which the value or the rate of duty has
been provisionally determined under 74 these rules, the date on which the duty
 is adjusted after final determination of
 the value or the rate of duty, as the case
 may be; (c) in the case of excisable goods on
 which duty has been erroneously refunded,
 the date of such refund.” 38. Thus, Rule 10 did provide for recovery of

duties which were not levied or not paid or short

levied or erroneously refunded. What is the

position as far as the expression short paid to be

found in Section 11A of the Act is concerned? Was

there a counterpart in Rule 10? A perusal of Rule

10 would show that the expression ‘short paid’ as

such was not used in Rule 10 as it is used in Section

11A. However, we notice that Rule 10 did

contemplate recovery of duties which was assessed

but have not been paid in full. 39. Before we proceed to pronounce on the scope

of the expression ‘short paid’ in Section 11A, we

deem it appropriate also to refer to Rules 173-B and 75 173-C of the Central Excise Rules, 1944. The

relevant provisions thereof read as follows: (2-A) All clearances shall, subject to
the provisions of Rule 173-CC, be made
only after the approval of the list by the
proper officer. If the proper officer is
of the opinion that on account of any
inquiry to be made in the matter or for
any other reason to be recorded in
writing, there is likely to be delay in
according the approval, he shall, either
on a written request made by the assessee
or on his own accord, allow such assessee
to avail himself of the procedure
prescribed under Rule 9-B for provisional
assessment of the goods. (3) Where the assessee disputes the rate
of duty approved by the proper officer in
respect of any goods, he may, after giving
an intimation to that effect to such
officer, pay duty under protest at the
rate approved by such officer. (4) If in the list approved by the proper
officer under sub-rule (2), any
alteration becomes necessary because of— (a) the assessee commencing production,
manufacture or warehousing of goods not
mentioned in that list, or (b) the assessee intending to remove from
the factory any non-excisable goods not
mentioned in that list, or (c) a change in the rate or rates of duty
in respect of the goods mentioned in that
list or, by reason of any amendment to the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff
Act, 1985 (5 of 1986), a change in the
Chapter, Heading No. and Sub-Heading No. 77 the assessee shall likewise file a fresh
list or an amendment of the list already
filed for the approval of such officer in
the same manner as is provided in sub-rule
(1). (5) When the dispute about the rate of
duty has been finalized or for any other
reasons affecting rate or rates of duty,
a modification of the rate or rates of
duty is necessitated, the proper officer
shall make such modification and inform
the assessee accordingly. (6) The Collector may exempt by a general
order any class of assessees, who
manufacture wholly goods which, for the
time being, are exempt from paying duty,
from filing the list under sub-rule (1): 40. We have already noticed that the new Central

Excise Rules have come into force known as Central

Excise Rules 2002. Under Rule 173-B of the

erstwhile Rules, the method of assessment and

payment of tax was essentially by the assessee

filing a classification list under Rule 173-B which

inter alia was to contain the rate of duty leviable.

The Rule further contemplated approval of the said

list with any modification as may be considered

necessary. The clearance was, subject to the

provision of Rule 173-CC, to be made only after the

approval by the competent officer. Equally under

rule 173(C), the assessee, the manufacturer or

producer or one who warehoused goods chargeable with

duty on the value of goods was to file a price list.

Prior approval was necessary only in certain 80 circumstances which included sale to or through

related person as defined in Section 4 of the Act.

Under Sub-rule 5 of Section 173-C again subject to

the provisions of Rule 173CC, the assessee covered

by Rule 173C(2) could not clear any goods from a

factory, warehouse or other approved place of

storage unless the price list was approved. Under

the new dispensation namely, Excise Rule 2002, we

have noticed that assessment was based on the value

and the rate of tax as declared by the assessee. 41. In the context of Rule 173B and 173C,

questions have arisen before this Court as to the

effect of notice issued under Rule 10 of the Excise

Rules, 1944 when the approved classification was

sought to be reopened. The Assistant Collector

sought to revise the net assessable value and

recover the differential duty. A Bench of two 81 learned Judges held in Rainbow Industries (P) Ltd.

v. CCE (1994)6 SCC 563, that once the price list was

approved and acted upon this reclassification would

be effective from the date of issue of the show cause

notice. A Bench of three learned Judges in Balarpur

Industries Ltd. v. Assistant Collector of Customs

and Central Excise & Ors. (1995) Supplement 3 SCC

429, sought to confine the aforesaid judgment to the

facts of the case. Finally, the matter was

considered by a Constitution Bench in the case of Collector of Central Excise, Baroda v. Cotspun Ltd. reported in (1999) 7 SCC 633. This Court approved

the view taken in Rainbow Industries (supra) and it

disapproved of Balarpur Industries noticing that it

did not advert to Rule 173-B. In the course of

judgment, the Court inter alia held as follows: “12. Rule 173-B deals with
 classification lists. It entitles the
 proper officer of Excise to make such
 enquiry thereon as he deems fit and 82 requires him to approve the list only
thereafter, and that with such
modifications as are considered
necessary. The assessee must determine
the excise duty that is payable by him on
the goods he intends to remove in
accordance with the approved
classification list. Sub-rule (5)
provides for modification of an approved
classification list. 13. Rule 10 is a provision for recovery
of duties that have not been levied or
paid in full or part. So far as is relevant
for our purposes, it provides that where
any duty has been short-levied, the
Excise Officer may, within six months
from the relevant date, serve notice on
the assessee requiring him to show cause
why he should not pay the amount that had
been short-levied. Rule 10 does not deal
with classification lists or relate to
the reopening of approved classification
lists. That is exclusively provided for
by Rule 173-B. 14. The levy of excise duty on the basis
of an approved classification list is the
correct levy, at least until such time as
to the correctness of the approval is
questioned by the issuance to the
assessee of a show-cause notice. It is
only when the correctness of the approval
is challenged that an approved
classification list ceases to be such. 15. The levy of excise duty on the basis
of an approved classification list is not
a short levy. Differential duty cannot be 83 recovered on the ground that it is a short
 levy. Rule 10 has then no application.”

 (Emphasis supplied) 42. A Bench of two learned Judges in the case of

M/s. Eastland Combines, Coimbatore v. Collector of

Central Excise, Coimbatore reported in AIR 2003 SC

843 after noticing the judgment in Ballarpur

Industries, Rainbow and also noticing the change

brought about by the Finance Act 10 of 2000 in

Section 11A, proceeded to take the view that in view

of the amendment, the basis for arriving at the

conclusion that Rule 10 does not deal with

classification list or relate to the reopening of

classification list is altered and the conditions

on which Cotspun (supra) judgment was rendered in

(1999)7 SCC 633 was fundamentally altered. The view

taken in M/s. Eastland Combines, Coimbatore (supra)

came to be doubted by another Bench of two Judges. 84 Consequently, again it was referred to a Bench of

three learned Judges and the reference came to be

answered in the decision reported in ITW Signod

India Limited vs. Collector of Central Excise reported in (2004) 3 SCC 48. Thereunder, the Court,

after referring to the 1994 Rules, Section 11A which

was introduced in the Act, the amendment which was

brought about by Section 97 of the Finance Act, 2000,

found that Section 11A, as amended by the Finance

Act, 2000 brought about a completely different

situation in the course of the judgment of the Court

held inter alia as under: 1978 E.L.T. (J 399), the contention of the assessee

was that neither Rule 9 nor Rule 10A (1944 Rules)

gave power to the Revenue to raise the demand notice

involved in the said case. The demand had to be made

if at all under Rule 10 and the demand having been

made long after three months, contrary to what was

prescribed in the said Rule, the notices were

illegal and void. The court inter alia held as

follows:- The Court further proceeded to held as follows:- Commissioner of Income-tax, Punjab
[1963] 3 SCR 893 = (AIR 1963 SC 1062), and
in Allen v. Thorn Electrical Industries
Ltd. (1968) 1 QB 487. In (1963) 3 SCR 893
= (AIR 1963 SC 1062, the question arose
as follows: In certain assessment
proceedings under the Indian Income-tax
Act, 1922 , an assessee was charged with
interest Under Sub-section (8) of
Section 18A of that Act Under that
Sub-section interest calculated in the
manner laid down in Sub-section (6) of
Section 18A was to be added to the tax
assessed. Sub- section 3 of
Section 18A dealt with cases of a person
who has not been assessed before and he
was required to make his own estimate of
the tax payable by him and pay
accordingly. Sub-section (3) of
Section 18A was applicable to the
assessee in that case. However, he
neither submitted any estimate nor did he
pay any advance tax. Under Sub-section
(6) of Section 18A it was provided: He applies and he is permitted under the order to

remove goods on a provisional assessment. The 96 assessment is thereafter finalized. When the

provisional assessment is finalized, the assessee

becomes liable however to pay interest from the

first date of the month succeeding the month for

which the amount is determined. We have no doubt

in our mind that under Rule 7(4), the expression

“succeeding the month for which such amount” is

determined refer to the month of removal of the

goods. When the provisional assessment has such

consequences, it would occasion an invidious

discrimination to place an interpretation on

Section 11AB by which those assesses who go in for

provisional assessment under Rule 7 are called upon

to pay interest upon finalization of the assessment

with reference to the date of removal in a case where

the value is fully determined as a result of

escalation clause being worked resulting in an

upward revision of prices and under Section 11AB 97 payability arises with reference to the date of

decision to grant escalation. In other words, the

law will have to be interpreted in a manner that it

is fair and equal to similarly situated group of

assessees. Legislative intention, in this regard,

also cannot be otherwise. Legislature has clearly

in Section 11AB spelt out the time with reference

to the Act and the Rules. Under Section 11AB in the

case of short levy or short payment inter alia, the

expression “month in which the duty has become

payable” under the Act and the rules must be

understood as the month in which the duty is payable

under the Rules made under the Act. Thus, if goods

are removed in the month of January ordinarily

payment must be made by the 6th of February. If the

duty is not paid by the 6th of February, Section 11AB

must be understood as mulcting the assessee with

liability to pay interest from the first day of March 98 in the example we have given. If the assessee went

in for provisional assessment under rule 7, it

becomes liable from the 1st day of the month

following the month for which the amount is

determined. 51. The expression “the month in which the duty

ought to have been paid” under this Act, when it is

read alongwith Rule 8, which declares that the duty

on the goods removed from the factory or warehouse

during a month is to be paid on the 6th day of the

following month would mean that the Legislature has

understood the expression “the month in which the

duty ought to have been paid” under the Act in the

same sense as it is declared in Rule 8. 52. In this regard it is also pertinent to notice

the finding in the order of the original authority

that perusal of the Circular dated 01/07/2004 makes

it unambiguously clear that the price was understood 99 as provisional price. This belies quite clearly

the case of the appellant that the price was final.

Could the assessee in the light of the Circular even

for a moment in the same breath contend that the

assessee was unhesitatingly ready and able to

determine the price and hence the value. We would

think that it certainly presented a situation where

the assessee should have resorted to Rule 7. 53. As we have already noted, SAIL has paid the

differential duty of Rs.142.78 crores even without

waiting for any notice under Section 11A(1). The

assessee volunteered and made payment in October

2006. We find merit in the finding by the authority

that this is a case where therefore the payment made

by the assessee is to be treated as one falling under

Section 11A(2)b). This meant also that there was

no need for determination of the duty within the 100 meaning of Section 11A(2)(a) or issuance of notice

under Section 11A. 54. It is important to notice that when we

contrast Section 11A as it was introduced with

effect from 15.11.1980 with Section 11A after

amendment by Section 97 of the Finance Act, 2000,

we find that in the later avtar of Section 11A, the

following words have been inserted: - Power under Section 11A to recover the duty which

has not been levied or not been paid or short-levied

or short-paid will be available inter alia

irrespective of, whether the aforesaid contingency

was or was not the result of any approval, acceptance

or assessment either relating to the rate of duty

or the valuation under the Act and the Rules. Thus,

even when there has been an assessment or acceptance

in relation to the rate of duty or valuation, it does

not stand in the way of invoking power under Section

11A. 55. Rule 12 declares that every assessee is to

file monthly returns. There is no provision in the

rule which contemplates an assessment as such based

on the return by the authorities. Assessment is

self-assessment by the assessee under Rule (6).

No doubt, in the case covered by Rule 7 there is a

provisional assessment followed by a final 102 assessment. The main ingredients for

self-assessment would appear to be (1) the rate of

duty (2) valuation (3) quantity of removal. 56. Are cases of non-levy, non-payment,

short-levy and short-payment mutually exclusive?.

In other words, can it be said that in a case of

non-payment, it would not be a case of non-levy? Do

they overlap? If there is non-levy, will there by

short levy at the same time. Finally, in a case of

short levy, can there also be short payment? 57. What is levy? We have already noticed that

in the decision of this Court in N.B. Sanjana (supra), this Court rejected the argument of the

Revenue that levy in Rule 10 means collection of some

amount. The Court went on to hold that levy has not

been used in the Act or the rules as meaning actual

collection. 103 58. In a case where goods are removed

clandestinely, there would be no levy. Equally,

there will be non-payment. Thus, a case of non-levy

can overlap with non-payment. No doubt, there can

be cases where despite full levy there can be no

payment, may be by mistake or otherwise. Equally

thus, if there is no non-levy, there can be partial

payment. That would make it a case of short payment

as the payment does not match the amount of duty

levied as per the self-assessment carried out by the

assessee. A short levy ordinarily would be a case

where out of the ingredients of assessment, namely,

(1) rate of duty, (2) valuation and (3) quantity

removed, the components all or any are incorrectly

applied. As an instance if the full rate of duty

applicable is not applied though the valuation and

the quantity is correctly arrived at, it may fall

under short-levy. In one sense it could be said 104 that there is short-payment also, as if payment

could be understood as the amount which ought to have

been paid but it has not been paid, it may be a case

of short payment. But it may be more appropriate

to put it under short levy where the deficit in

payment is essentially in terms of a short-levy. 59. We are here concerned in these cases with one

of the ingredients of assessment, namely,

valuation. There is no dispute regarding the

quantity removed. There is no issue relating to

rate of duty. The dispute is relating to the

correct value. To appreciate it better, let us take

an example of an assessee who deliberately

undervalues the goods which he removed. This

results in assessee arriving at an amount which

would not be the correct amount. He pays this

incorrectly assessed amount. Would it be a case of 105 short levy or short payment? If short- levy is to

be understood as confined to cases where the

assessment is not the full assessment, taking into

account the parameters involved correctly, namely,

rate of duty, valuation and quantity it could be

classified as a case of short levy as one of the

components of proper assessment namely, valuation

has been incorrectly arrived at. The payment in

such a case is made in terms of the incorrectly

assessed figure. The payment matches the

assessment. In fact, it is worthwhile to recall

that under Rule 10 of 1944 Rules which we have

adverted to., the expression “short-payment” is not

used. Instead the words duty has not been paid in

full, has been used. No doubt, in a case where in

law though the amount which is paid is in harmony

with the amount which is assessed, it is not the

amount which ought to have been paid by the assessee. 106 The absence of full payment of duty or short payment

has indeed also in one sense taken place. In a case

where there is an escalation clause goods are

cleared on a provisional price. Consequently, the

value is provisional. There is a subsequent

escalation with retrospective effect. It will

affect the valuation which was employed in the

self-assessment by the assessee which would

necessarily be provisional. Enhancement of the

value will date back to the dates of removal in view

of the retrospective operation. Admittedly the

liability for payment of differential duty has

arisen. Upon the true value, in a case of

retrospective escalation of price though later

agreed being received and consequential

differential duty being admittedly payable, it

would result in Section 11A read with Section 11AB

applying. 107 60. It is true that the statutory authority has

found it to be a case of short payment. In the

notice issued claiming interest it is stated there

is short levy (see page 89 Vol.II SLP paper book).

Proceeding on the basis that it is a case of short

levy, Section 11A read with Section 11AB is

attracted and the interest clock ticks from the date

as we have found namely as provided in Rule 8 read

with Section 11AB. If the concept of short payment

is stretched to include all amounts which ought to

have been paid, it may also be treated as a case of

short payment though juridically it may be true that

it may strictly fall under short levy. 61. While it may be true that interest cannot be

demanded by way of damages or compensation and it

is also further true that unless there is a

substantive provision providing for payment of 108 interest in a fiscal statute, interest cannot be

demanded, we would think in the context of the Act

and the Rules in question, under Section 11AB,

particularly, when there is no dispute relating to

liability to pay the differential duty and we notice

that absence of dispute is a fair acknowledgement

of the fact that the facts of the present cases are

unlike the situation in MRF decision where the price

was fixed at the time of removal, interest is payable

as provided in Section 11AB and from the point of

time indicated therein. But in these cases, the

price was variable under the escalation clause which

was very much within the knowledge of the assessee

and the demand for interest is sustainable. 62. As far as the scope of the second explanation

of Section 11A(2)(b) is concerned, it contemplates

payment voluntarily by the assessee. It is without 109 any notice being issued under Section 11A. There

is also reference to liability on the part of the

assessee to pay interest under Section 11A(2)(b),

not only on the amount which is paid within the

meaning of Section 11A(2)(b) but on any short

payment as may be determined by the excise officer.

This only means that payment can by an assessee of

any of the four amounts with which we are more

concerned namely, non-levy, non-payment,

short-levy or short-payment. Since there is no

notice under Section 11A and non-determination of

the amount as such pursuant to which the amount is

paid it may happen that there may be shortfall in

the amount which is paid by the assessee in

comparison to what the assessee is legally required

to pay. The short payment which is therefore

referred to in the second Explanation to Section

11A(2)(B) can only be the aforesaid short payment 110 and it is not referring to the short payment of duty

which was originally occasioned and which is the

subject matter of Section 11A(2)(b) and Section

11AB. 63. We are of the view that the reasoning of this

Court in the order referring the cases to us (to this

Bench) that for the purpose of Section 11AB, the

expression “ought to have been paid” would mean the

time when the price was agreed upon by the seller

and the buyer does not square with our understanding

of the clear words used in Section 11AB and as the

rules proclaim otherwise and it provides for the

duty to be paid for every removal of goods on or

before the 6th day of the succeeding month.

Interpreting the words in the manner contemplated

by the Bench which referred the matter would result

in doing violence to the provisions of the Act and 111 the Rules which we have interpreted. We have

already noted that when an assessee in similar

circumstances resorts to provisional assessment

upon a final determination of the value

consequently, the duty and interest dates back to

the month “for which” the duty is determined. Duty

and interest is not paid with reference to the month

in which final assessment is made. In fact, any

other interpretation placed on Rule 8 would not only

be opposed to the plain meaning of the words used

but also defeat the clear object underlining the

provisions. It may be true that the differential

duty becomes crystalised only after the escalation

is finalized under the escalation clause but it is

not a case where escalation is to have only

prospective operation. It is to have retrospective

operation admittedly. This means the value of the

goods which was only admittedly provisional at the 112 time of clearing the goods is finally determined and

it is on the said differential value that admittedly

that differential duty is paid. We would think that

while the principle that the value of the goods at

the time of removal is to reign supreme, in a case

where the price is provisional and subject to

variation and when it is varied retrospectively it

will be the price even at the time of removal. The

fact that it is known, later cannot detract from the

fact, that the later discovered price would not be

value at the time of removal. Most significantly,

section 11A and section 11AB as it stood at the

relevant time did not provide read with the rules

any other point of time when the amount of duty could

be said to be payable and so equally the interest.

We would concur with the views expressed in SKF

case(supra) and International Auto (supra). We 113 find no merit in the appeals. The appeals will

stand dismissed. …………………………………CJI. (Ranjan Gogoi)

 ……………………………………………J.
 (Uday Umesh Lalit)

 ………………………………………J.
 (K.M. Joseph)
New Delhi; May 08, 2019 114