For Petitioner(s) : Mr. R.N. Mathur, Sr. Adv. with Mr.
 Vijay Choudhary, Mr. Aseem
 Chaturvedi, Mr. Anant Priya Jain
For Respondent(s) : Mr. Siddharth Ranka

 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PANKAJ BHANDARI

 Judgment / Order

12/03/2019 1. Petitioners have preferred this Writ Petition seeking

quashing and setting aside of summons issued by the

Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax Department,
 (2 of 9) [CRLW-76/2019]

Jaipur and Alwar and a further prayer that the authorities be

directed not to take any coercive action against the Petitioners. 2. Succinctly stated facts of the case are that the

Petitioner No.1 is the Managing Director of M/s Leel Electricals

Limited, Petitioner No.2. The Central Goods And Service Tax

Department conducted a raid on 17.01.2019, at the premises of

the Petitioners' Company at Bhiwadi, Rajasthan. Senior Officials of

the company, Shri Mukut Bihari Sharma, Director and Chief

Financial Officer (CFO) and Shri Shobhan Singh Bhandari were

asked to remain present at the premises of the Company.

Summons under Section 70 of the Goods and Services Tax Act

were served upon them. The raid continued till 19.01.2019. After

recording of the statements of Officials of Company, they were

arrested. As per the case of the Department, the Company had

fraudulently availed input tax credit of Rs.40.53 crores by issuance

of fictitious sale invoices and sister concerns of company and

Petitioner-Company had fraudulently availed input tax credit of

Rs.328 crores. 3. It is contended by counsel for the Petitioners that the

Petitioner No.1 was residing in United States of America. It was

only after demise of his father that he returned to India in

November, 2017. He was appointed as M.D. on 30.05.2018 after

demise of his father-Shri Brij Raj Punj. He has all apprehension

that if he appears, in pursuance of the notice issued under Section

70 of the Goods and Services Tax Act by the Department, he

would be arrested, as has been the fate of Senior Officials of the

Company. 4. It is contended that Petitioner has deposited GST to the

tune of Rs.7,15,06,124/- from 18.01.2019 till 02.02.2019, which
 (3 of 9) [CRLW-76/2019]

goes to show that Petitioner is a law abiding citizen. If any

coercive action is taken by the Department against the Petitioner,

it would seriously hamper his reputation. 5. Counsel for the Petitioners has placed reliance on

" Make My Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Union of India " 2016 SCC

online Del.4951, wherein the Delhi High Court held that Section 70 of the Goods and Services Tax Act does not permit the Sale Tax

Department to by pass procedure before going ahead with arrest

of a person. Decision to arrest a person must not be taken on

whimsical grounds, it must be based on 'credible material'. 6. It is contended by counsel for the Petitioners that the

judgment passed by the Delhi High Court was affirmed by the

Apex Court in Civil Appeal No.8080/2018 "Union of India & Ors.

vs. Make My Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd." decided on 23.01.2019,

wherein the Apex Court has affirmed the judgment of the Delhi

High Court and held that it is mandatory to follow the procedure

contained in Section 73-A(3) & (4) of the Finance Act, 1994 before

going ahead with the arrest of a person under Sections 90 & 91 of

the Act. 7. Reliance has also been placed on " Meghraj

Moolchand Burad vs. Directorate General of GST

(Intelligence), Pune and Anr." SLP (Criminal) No (s). 244/2019

dated 13.12.2018 of the Apex Court, wherein the Apex Court

granted protection to the Petitioner from arrest and permitted the

Petitioner to appear before the Directorate General of GST

(Intelligence). Reliance has also been placed on " Rakesh Kumar

Chaubey vs. Union of India & Ors. " wherein the Uttrakhand

High Court permitted the Petitioner to appear before the

concerned Authority and tender all support to the investigation. (4 of 9) [CRLW-76/2019]

The Court restrained the authority from arresting the Petitioner

except with the leave of the Court. 8. It is contended by counsel for the Petitioner that the

tax has not been determined in accordance with Section 73 and 74 of the Act and till the tax is determined, Department has no

right to summon the Petitioner or arrest the Petitioner under Section 69 of the Act. It is also contended that fake invoices of CR

Sheet/Coils were issued without any physical

movement/transaction of the goods. 9. Counsel for the Central Goods And Service Tax

Department has opposed the writ petition. 10. It is contended that a detailed reply has been

submitted by the Department. The details of related/sister

concerns of the Company at Jaipur and the amount of fraudulent

input tax credit availed by such related/sister concerns is detailed

out in the reply. As per which, around Rs.328 crores input tax

credit has been fraudulently claimed by the Petitioner and its

sister concerns. The fraudulent claim of input tax credit by the

Petitioner No.2 is to the tune of Rs.40 crore 53 lakh. 11. It is contended that Section 70 of the Goods and

Services Tax (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act'), Act gives

powers to the proper officer to summon any person whose

attendance is necessary either to give evidence or to produce

document or any other thing in any inquiry. It is argued that

notices have been issued and Petitioner is bound by the law to

appear before the Proper Officer. It is also contended that though

power of arrest is available under Section 69 of the Act, but the

same depends on all the facts of each case and it is only when the

Commissioner has reasons to believe that a person has committed
 (5 of 9) [CRLW-76/2019]

any offence specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or

clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 132 which is punishable

under clause (i) or (ii) of sub-section (1), or sub-section (2) of the

said section, he may, by order, authorise any officer of central tax

to arrest such person. 12. It is also contended that the Officials of the company

were arrested as there was reasonable ground to believe that they

have committed offence under clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) Sub-section (1) of Section 132 of the Act. It is argued that

even bail applications of the officials stand rejected by the Court

which goes to show that the company was involved in fraudulent

claiming of input tax credit by furnishing fake invoices. It is also

contended that though Petitioner No.1 was residing at United

States of America, he was the Director of the company from

August, 2012 and was receiving managerial remuneration from

the company to the tune of about Rs.60 lakh per annum. Hence,

he cannot shake off his responsibilities from the criminal act

committed by him and the company. 13. With regard to the judgment referred to by the counsel

for the Petitioners "Make My Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Union

of India" (supra), it is contended that facts of that case are

entirely different in " Make My Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Union of

India " case. Make my trip collected amount with GST but the GST

was not deposited. The amount was passed on to the hotels

alongwith GST after retaining commission, no effort was made by

the Department to collect evidence from the hotels, as to whether,

they had deposited GST with the Department. 14. It is also contended that from the evidence of the

Officials of Petitioner No.2, Company, it is revealed that M/s Leel
 (6 of 9) [CRLW-76/2019]

Electricals Limited, Petitioner No.2, and its various

group/sister/related companies, as per the statutory disclosure of

related party mentioned in Note 40 of the Balance Sheet, availed

fraudulent input tax credit to the tune of Rs.328 crores 36 lakhs.

It is contended that till date six summons have been issued to the

Petitioner but he has failed to appear before the Authorities. 15. It is contended that determination of tax is not

necessary when input tax credit has been availed fraudulently, as

is clear from the plain reading of Section 73 of the Act. It is

contended that Sections 73 & 74 of the Act are not applicable and

no determination is to be done in a case where offence under Section 132 of the Act is committed by a person. 16. It is contended that the judgment referred to by the

counsel for Petitioner has no applicability to the facts of the case

as there is fraudulent availment of input tax credit to the tune of

Rs.328 crores against the Petitioner No.2 and other related firms

which were working as a syndicate to defraud the Government

Exchequer by issuing fake invoices and availing and utilizing

fraudulent input tax credit. 17. I have considered the contentions. 18. It is pertinent to note that it is clear case of the

Department that the Petitioner and its sisters concerns have

availed input tax credit to the tune of Rs.328,36,73,701/- on the

basis of fake invoices, out of which Rs.40,53,58,772/- is the

fraudulent input tax credit claimed by Petitioner No.2 of which

Petitioner No.1 is the Managing Director. This fact is not

controverted by the Petitioner, nor there is any pleading or counter

pleadings on behalf of the Petitioner in the Writ Petition that a
 (7 of 9) [CRLW-76/2019]

wrong allegation has been levelled by the Goods and Services Tax

Department. 19. The Petitioners' Writ Petition is confined to technicalities

as also to the fact that the Petitioner No.1 was residing abroad

and was not involved in day to day affairs of the company. This

Court is not convinced by the arguments advanced by the counsel

for the Petitioner for the very reason that Petitioner No.1 is the

Director of the company since 08.08.2012 and has been receiving

managerial remuneration from the company to the tune of about

Rs.60 lakh per annum. Petitioner No.1 became the Managing

Director of Petitioner No.2 on 30.05.2018, hence contention of

counsel for the Petitioner that he was not involved in day to day

affairs of the company, cannot be accepted. 20. The case set up by the Department is that the

Petitioner has claimed input tax credit on fake invoices, which fact

is not controverted by the Petitioner. Hence, Department has all

rights to take any action permissible by law. 21. The contention that the tax is to be first determined

under Section 73 & 74 of the Act does not have any force for the

very reason that in an offence committed under Section 132 of the

Act determination of tax is not required and the Department can

proceed straight away by issuing summons or if reasonable

grounds are available by arresting the offender. 22. It is clear case of the Department that a raid was

conducted at the premises of the Petitioner company at Bhiwadi

and two officials and Petitioners were summoned and their

statements were recorded and from the statements, it is revealed

that from July, 2017, company has not done any business and

that fake sale purchase bills were prepared and only trading
 (8 of 9) [CRLW-76/2019]

activities were shown. All the trading activities were conducted

without any banking transaction or movement of goods. It was

also revealed from the statements that input tax credit was

wrongly claimed to the tune of more than Rs.40 crores and 53

lakhs by the Petitioner No.2. 23. From investigation, it is also revealed that no

manufacturing process was conducted at Bhiwadi and CR

Sheet/Coils and Iron Sheets were not used in the manufacturing

process at Bhiwadi. It was also revealed that M/S Fedders Electric

and Engineering Ltd, M/S PSL Engineering Pvt. Ltd, M/S Air Serco

Pvt. Ltd., M/S Perfect Radiators Pvt. Ltd. & M/S Punj Engineering

are related companies to Petitioner No.2 and the total input credit

wrongly claimed by the company and its sister concerns is to the

tune of Rs.328 crores. 24. From searches, it was revealed that the company had

taken input tax credit on bills issued by other concerns, whereas

CR Sheet/Coils and iron sheets mentioned in the bills never

reached the unit. Petitioner No.2 issued exit pass even when they

had not received the goods, the company had thus shown fake

purchase of Rs.225.90 crores and had wrongly claimed input

credit to the tune of Rs.40.53 crores. 25. The judgment referred to by the counsel for the

Petitioners "Make My Trip (India) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Union of

India" (supra) has no applicability to the facts of this case as in

make my trip, the company collected money from the travellers

including service tax, the service tax was paid to the hotels and

the responsibility to pay service tax was on the hotels. The Court

held that officers of Make My Trip were wrongly arrested and Provisions of Finance Act, 1994 were not followed. The case was
 (9 of 9) [CRLW-76/2019]

 thus of collection of the tax and its non-deposition with the

 Government, whereas in the present case, false input credit was

 claimed on fake invoices without conducting any trading activities. 26. " Meghraj Moolchand Burad vs. Directorate

 General of GST (Intelligence), Pune and Anr. " (supra) also

 does not have any applicability as Meghraj Moolchand Burad case

 pertains to Anticipatory Bail and the facts are not relevant to

 present case. Petitioner in the present case has not disputed the

 factum of fraudulent availing of input tax on basis of fake invoices. 27. Since offence under Section 132 is made out and

 Senior Officials of Company are behind bars, Petitioner being

 Managing Director is responsible and Department has the right to

 proceed under Section 69 and 70 of the Act. 28. I do not find any force in the Writ Petition. Petitioners

 have claimed tax input credit on the basis of fake invoices hence

 Writ Petition is dismissed with cost of Rs.1,00,000/- only. 29. The cost amount be deposited with the Rajasthan High

 Court Legal Services Authority within four weeks of the date of

 this order and proof thereof, be submitted with the Registrar

 (Judicial). If the proof of depositing of amount is not submitted,

 let the matter be listed before the Court for appropriate course of

 action. 30. Stay application also stands disposed of. (PANKAJ BHANDARI),J

 Arti/39

Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)