- The applicant is arrested on 24 December 2020 in
connection with C.R.No. 843 of 2020 registered with Kandivali
Police Station on 6 October 2020 for offences punishable under Section 409 , 420 , 120B , 34 of Indian Penal Code. The investigation
was then transferred to CID, Crime Branch vide C.R.No. 143 of
2020. Section 465 , 468 , 406 , 174 , 179 , 201 , 204 , 212 were added. 2. The brief facts of the prosecution case as spelt out in the
First Information Report are as follows :- 3 Cr.BA 389.21.doc (b) The complainant visited Police Station. His statement
was recorded which has been treated as FIR. He stated that Hansa
Research Group Pvt. Ltd. is a research company and working for
Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) for installing
barometers and looking after them. BARC is the only company in
India which is concerned with measuring TRP (Television Rating
Point) of TV channels and TV programs under the supervision of
Television Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting (MIB). For measuring TRP, BARC
installs barometers in specified homes and the said barometers are
supervised by Hansa Research Group Pvt. Ltd. in Mumbai and
Maharashtra. (c) The persons who are designated to install barometers are
appointed as Relationship Manager. They are given training to find
out whether any malpractices are being followed while installing
barometers by paying any gratification to the persons in whose house
the barometers are installed. (d) The TV channels whose TRP is high are benefited with
advertisements resulting in earnings and it was noticed that some of
the TV channels are indulging in malpractices to increase their TRP.
The budget of advertisement on TV channels is based on TRP. In
case of false TRP, loss is caused to advertisers. In the event of
 4 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

malpractices, the broad-caster and advertiser suspect the functioning
of BARC. (e) On 11 June 2020 the audit team of complainant visited
house of Ved Prakash Bhandari to inspect barometer installed in the
house. It was noticed that one more meter was installed in the
premises. On enquiry with the occupant of the house it is disclosed
that his son Vishal Bhandari is working as Relationship Manager
with Complainant's Company. (f) On 17 June 2020, Vishal Bhandari was called in the
office of BARC for enquiry. He disclosed that he has been working
with Hansa Research Group Pvt. Ltd. since March 2019 as
Relationship Manager. In November 2019 he was called by person
named Vinay and informed that the persons in whose house
barometer is installed be instructed to watch India Today News
Channel atleast for two hours per day and for that he would pay
commission to him and viewers. He agreed to do so. Vinay
Tripathi met Vishal and he gave Rs.200/- per hour for five houses
for watching India Today News Channel and Rs.5,000/- to Vishal as
commission. (g) Vishal admitted that malpractices were going on since
November 2019 to May 2020 and he had received calls from various
persons for conducting similar acts. He admitted that he has paid
 5 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

amount to several persons for watching specified channels. The list
of which was given in the complaint. 3. During the course of investigation several persons were
arrested. The applicant was arrested on 24 December 2020. He was
produced before the Court of learned Additional Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate, 37 Court, Esplanade, Mumbai on 25 December 2020.
Remand application refers to arrest of 14 accused. It was stated that
charge-sheet is filed against Accused Nos. 1 to 12 on 24.11.2020.
Further investigation under Section 173(8) is in progress. Accused
No.13 was arrested on 13.12.2020 and accused No.14 was arrested
on 17.12.2020. He was granted bail. Ten persons were shown as
wanted in the case. The Applicant was impleaded as Accused No.15.
The charges under Section 409 , 420 , 465 , 468 , 406 , 120B , 174 , 179 , 201 , 204 , 212 r/w. 34 were invoked. The remand application
further mentions that during the interrogation of Accused No.14 -
Romil Vinodkumar Ramgadia, he had disclosed that he was involved
in manipulation of TRP in connivance with the then Chief
Executive Officer of BARC (Applicant). It was further alleged that
applicant was interrogated and he disclosed that he was working as
CEO with BARC from June 2013 to November 2019 and he has
misused his position and manipulated TRP of certain TV channels.
Police custody of the applicant was sought on various grounds. He
was remanded to police custody till 28 December 2020. The
applicant was again produced before the Court for remand on 28
 6 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

December 2020. It was stated that mobile phone, lap-top, i-pad,
TAG-HEUR watch, silver ornaments, etc. were recovered valued
about Rs.2,23,900/- at the instance of the applicant. The applicant
was again produced for remand on 30 December 2020. Similar
grounds were made for custody. The Applicant was then remanded
to judicial custody. Charge-sheet was filed against the Applicant. 4. The applicant preferred an application for bail before the
Court of learned Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, 37
Court, Esplanade, Mumbai. The said application was rejected by
order dated 4 January 2021. While rejecting bail it was observed
that investigation is at crucial stage. The applicant is an influential
person who worked with BARC and the other persons or accused are
yet to be interrogated. In such circumstances, it is requirement of
further investigation to keep the present accused away from wanted
accused and other material witnesses. Although the Applicant is in
judicial custody, it does not mean that investigation is completed. At
this juncture release of the applicant would hamper further
investigation. Since the investigation is in progress, it will not be
proper to release the accused on bail. 5. The applicant subsequently preferred an application for
bail before the Court of Sessions. The said application was rejected
by order dated 20 January 2021. The application was opposed by
 7 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

the respondents on the ground that the applicant has played vital
role. Investigation is not yet completed. However, charge-sheet is
filed in the Court with request for further investigation under Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. It was also urged by the prosecution that
during the course of investigation, the Investigating officer has
seized lap-top and mobile and it is necessary to verify the whats-app
chats. There is voluminous rounds of chats in between the applicant
and the owner/anchor of TV channels. There are serious chats
recorded in the mobile of the applicant/accused which are required
to be investigated. The chat shows complicity of the applicant with
the TV channel owner. The learned Sessions Judge observed that
thorough investigation is necessary in respect of whats-app chats.
Although 14 persons are released on bail, the accused is mastermind
of crime and played vital role for manipulation of TRP. The custody
of the applicant is necessary and if at this stage accused is released on
bail, then every possibility that he may tamper with the prosecution
witnesses and evidence. In view of material available on record, face
to face interrogation of accused is required. On the sole ground of
investigation and tampering of evidence, the Court was not inclined
to exercise judicial discretion in favour of the accused. 6. The tenor of order passed by the learned Magistrate and
the learned Sessions Judge makes it apparent that bail was refused
primarily on the ground that his custody is necessary for
 8 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

investigation and that the applicant is likely to tamper with the
evidence. It is pertinent to note that the applicant was in judicial
custody at the relevant time. Charge-sheet was already filed against
him when the application was rejected by Sessions Court. It is also
necessary to note that the charge-sheet was filed even before
completing the statutory period available to the Investigating Agency
to complete the investigation. It appears from the documents
produced by both the sides that application was made before the
Trial Court seeking permission for interrogation of the applicant
while in jail custody which was granted. It is the contention of the
learned Counsel for the applicant that although the permission was
granted by the Trial Court, nothing could be revealed during the
interrogation and there was no serious attempt to interrogate the
applicant qua the allegations against him. 7. Mr. Ponda, learned Senior Advocate representing the
applicant urged several grounds in support of the prayer for bail.
The submissions can be summarized as under :- On completing investigation, charge-sheet is filed against him.
Thereafter, supplementary charge-sheet is filed against the applicant.
Further detention of the applicant is not necessary. 9 Cr.BA 389.21.doc (ii) Although the applicant is charged of commission of
offence under Section 420 of IPC, no person who is allegedly
deceived had come forward to contend that loss is caused to him. (iii) The person who could be allegedly a victim of alleged
manipulation is an advertiser who could have placed his
advertisement on the basis of the alleged manipulated TRP.
However, no such person has come forward to lodge complaint. (iv) The case of the prosecution is that the involvement of
the applicant was disclosed during the interrogation of Accused
No.14 - Romil Ramgadia. However, he has been granted bail by the
Court of learned Magistrate. He had allegedly played vital role in
manipulation. The applicant is arrested on the basis of statement
made by him. The applicant was arrested after Accused No.14 was
granted bail. (v) According to prosecution, the applicant had committed
breach of the Rules ad Regulations of TRAI, The applicant is not
charged for commission of the offence under the said Regulation. In
any case, the offences stipulated therein are non-cognizable. (vi) The alleged whats-app chats between the applicant and
the owner of TV channel as well as the alleged e-mails between them
 10 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

are in custody of the Investigating Agency. These are loose talks
between them. It does not have link with manipulation of TRP. (vii) The applicant cannot be kept in custody for indefinite
period. The charge-sheet is filed. Under the garb of further
investigation in accordance with Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. the
prosecution is trying to extend the custody of the applicant.
However, it is required to be noted that the charge-sheet was filed
immediately within 30 days after his arrest. It is submitted that even
after filing charge-sheet, investigation proceeded and supplementary
charge-sheet was filed. (viii) The offences are triable by the Magistrate. 14 other
accused are granted bail. The applicant need not be kept in custody
for longer period. There is no embargo for granting bail which is
prevalent in the special legislation such as MCOC, TADA, UAPA,
etc. (ix) The role of Accused No.14 - Romil is implicit from
summary of the charge-sheet. According to prosecution, he was
involved in TRP manipulation to cause benefit to certain channels
with the aid of other persons. The Accused No.14 was working with
BARC and was having the information about viewership of TV
channels which was misused by him in connivance with the
 11 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

applicant. It was found that Accused No.14 was indulging in
manipulation of TRP and hence enquiry was conducted by BARC
with the help of independent agency Acquisory Risk Consulting
Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai which revealed that in connivance with other and
in pursuance to conspiracy, he was involved in TRP manipulation
and evidence in that regard was collected. The charge-sheet also
discloses that the mobile phone of Accused No.14 was seized and it
was disclosed that there was exchange of WhatsApp conversation for
increase of TRP between the Directors of ARG Outlier Media Pvt.
Ltd. and Accused No.14. Serious role is attributed to him which is
apparent from the summery stipulated in final charge-sheet.
However, he has been granted bail. All the arrested persons except
the applicant are on bail. The allegations against applicant are false.
The applicant himself had learned about violations of Code, Rules
and Regulations by a channel with regards to landing pages and dual
LCN's and had notified the Board members formed on oversight
committee in June 2019, investigated the entire process thoroughly
and published report dated 15.10.2019 certifying that process
followed at BARC is accurate and unbiased and recommended to
continue process. The report further states that there is no manual
intervention in the process for treating outliers. (x) The person with whom the Applicant had allegedly exchanged
WhatsApp chats and that to whose channel the Applicant
 12 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

had indulged in manipulation of TRP has been granted relief which
is evident from the orders passed by the Court in the proceedings
which are pending in this Court. (xi) The prosecution is relying upon the recovery panchnama
in respect to the articles allegedly recovered at the instance of the
applicant. The articles includes electronic gadgets, watch and
ornaments. These ornaments belong to the family of the applicant.
Without any basis the Respondents had alleged that the ornaments
are purchased out of the proceeds of crime. It is submitted that the
allegation is baseless and the said articles cannot be in any manner
linked to the crime. The jewellery belongs to wife of the applicant. (xii) The applicant is not charged for any offence with regard
to alleged serious chats recovered during the course of investigation
by the Investigating Agency. (xiii) The applicant is highly educated person. He was appointed as
CEO of BARC for a period from June 2013 to November 2019. The
question of tampering evidence does not arise. He relied upon
decision of this Court in the case of Khemlo Sawant v/s. State (2001)
Bom.C.R. (Cri.) 761 in which it was observed that the apprehension
of investigating agency that accused if released on bail, is likely to
tamper with evidence. Such apprehension is misplaced, for the
 13 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

simple reason that having regard to nature of allegations in the
complaint, the crucial evidence is that of complainant himself.
Therefore if attempt is made to pressurize complainant, it would be
good case for cancellation of bail, but it will result in miscarriage of
justice to keep applicant in custody on the basis of mere
apprehension. Learned Counsel also relied upon decision of
Supreme Court in Mahipal v/s. Rajesh Kumar and Anr. (2020) 2
SCC 118, wherein it was observed that, the determination of whether
a case is fit for grant of bail involves balancing of numerous factors,
among which the nature of offence, the severity of punishment and a
prima facie view of the involvement of accused are important. No
straitjacket formula exists for Courts to access an application for the
grant or rejection of bail. At the stage of assessing whether a case is
fit for grant of bail, the Court is not required to enter into a detailed
analysis of the evidence on record to establish beyond reasonable
doubt the commission of crime by accused. That is a matter of trial.
Reliance is also placed on decision of apex court in the case of Ranjit
Singh Sharma v/s. State (2005) 5 SCC 294 and P. Chidambaram v/s.
CBI (2019) SCC OnLine SC 1380. (xiv) The applicant is ailing. His health condition has deteriorated.
He is undergoing treatment. 14 Cr.BA 389.21.doc 8. The learned Special P.P. Mr. Hiray submitted that there
is voluminous evidence against the applicant to show his
involvement in the crime and offences under Section 420 , Section
409 of IPC and other offences are clearly made out. It is submitted
that the Petition filed by the other accused which is pending before
the Division Bench is being vehemently opposed by the State. He
relied upon the orders passed by the Division Bench from time to
time. He submitted that the prosecution has not consented for
extension of interim relief beyond 5 March 2021 and the said
Petition has been listed for hearing on the issue of grant of interim
protection on 5 March 2021. It is submitted that during the course
of investigation the involvement of the applicant has been disclosed.
There is cogent evidence on record to establish that the applicant has
played vital role in manipulation of TRP to support the channel
owned by ARG Outlier Media Pvt. Ltd. It is submitted that the
applicant was CEO of BARC. The complainant's company were
engaged to install barometers at the residential premises to measure
TRP of TV channels. The applicant and the owner of ARG Outliers
had acted in connivance with each other to increase the TRP of
Republic Bharat and Republic TV. BARC is the only agency in this
country to measure TRP of TV channels. The decision of
advertising their products by the companies would depend upon the
TRP of a particular program/channel. If the TRP is higher the
parties choose to advertise their product at the rate charged by the
 15 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

channel. The accused were involved in manipulating TRP of several
channels. The applicant was controlling BARC. He acted in
connivance with the accused who were working with Hansa Research
Group Pvt. Ltd. The offence is of serious nature. The persons who
had advertised are the victims they have suffered loss. It is not
necessary that the victims should come forward to lodge the
complaint. Criminal law can be set into motion by any person. On
account of manipulation in TRP, the advertisers suspected credibility
of BARC as well as Hansa Research Group Pvt. Ltd. and there was
confusion in the mind of advertisers. The applicant has admitted
that he is involved in manipulating TRP. He has earned huge
amount in the manipulated transactions. Memorandum statement
of the applicant was recorded vide panchnama during the course of
investigation. There is recovery of valuable articles including the
jewellery from the possession of the applicant. There is reason to
believe that the valuables were purchased by the applicant out of the
crime proceeds. The accused has admitted that he was going in
concert with the co-accused including the owner of Republic TV
who is also the accused in this case. There complicity and
connivance is fortified by evidence on record. During the course of
investigation, WhatsApp chats and e-mails were recovered. Those
chats shows the acquaintance of the applicant and the co-accused. It
is submitted that the chat also fortifies the manipulation of TRP by
the applicant to cause benefit to the channel of co-accused. It is
 16 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

submitted that the applicant was holding prime position with BARC
during the relevant time. He misused this position. The forensic
report which is part of charg-sheet collected during the course of
investigation opines that the applicant is involved in manipulation of
TRP. He also relied upon the statement of witnesses to substantiate
the submission that the applicant is involved in commission of
offences. He pointed out statement of Mr. Dinesh Krishna Pillai
relating to forensic report and also the statement of Smt. Pekham
Basu. Mr. Pillai in his statement dated 6 January 2021 has stated
that his services were engaged for forensic audit of BARC. He
examined the data and submitted audit report. It was opined that
there was email conversation between the applicant Romil
Ramgadia, Rushabh Mehta, Vyankatesh Samrat and Manasi Kumar
with regard to TRP rating manipulation. Their involvement has
been disclosed in the report submitted by him on 24 July 2020. The
report with title Digital Forensic Services is part of record. The e-
mails exchanged between the parties are part of Digital Forensic
Services report. Mr. Hiray submitted that the findings incorporated
in the said report which were reflected in the statement of Dinesh
Pillai are vital and important which corroborates the prosecution
case. The witnesses also stated that the applicant was aware of
manipulation of the ratings and violation of process that was
happening in BARC during his stint as CEO. It can be inferred
that the applicant was involved in malafide transaction. Although
 17 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

the applicant was expected to be custodian of the governance and
ethics as he was CEO. There is evidence to show that the applicant
aided the break down of governance and ethics in BARC. The
statement also mentions that based on analysis of data it was noticed
that Romil Ramgadia was involved directly and was in the note of
rating changes being done to favour particular channel. There is
strong indication that channel rating were pre-decided. The learned
Special P.P. further submitted that crores of rupees were involved in
these transactions. It is further submitted that the manipulations had
wide connotations and the acts was spread over the country. It is
submitted that BARC was appointed to measure TRP of channel
system. The company was incorporated under the guidelines of
TRAI and Ministry of Broadcasting. He pointed out the requisite
rules in the guidelines. It is submitted that the policy guidelines for
television rating agencies were issued by the Ministry of Information
and Broadcasting, Government of India. These guidelines were
made applicable to all rating agencies providing television rating
services in India. The policy provides eligibility criteria and
methodology for audience measurement. It also provides secrecy and
privacy clause, data analysis, transparency, etc. The policy also
provides for action upon non-compliance of guidelines. The policy
also concerned with national security and other conditions. It is
submitted that some of the chats which were recovered during the
course of investigation, action against the applicant and the co- 18 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

accused are relating to security of the nation. However, in fairness,
he admitted that no penal provision is initiated in respect to the said
WhatsApp chats. Mr. Hiray further submitted that statement of
Kumari Pekham Basu recorded on 4 January 2021 mentions the
procedure followed for measuring TRP. The said witness have
stated that there was no accurate information and false information
was feed which was doubted. She filed a complaint but no action
was initiated. She was working in market analysis division and she
was ordered by Romil to upload the final data processing work. Raw
data obtained for processing the work and final data was
manipulated by the applicant to profitise the particular channel,
Romil was helping particular channel by implying the META Rule
method. Thus, manipulating the TRP and was telecasting the same
channel, when Republic TV had supported broadcasting, TRP had
increased and due to this, other TV channels had complained to
BARC office about huge TRP of Republic TV channel. Statement of
Pekham Basu is also recorded under Section 164(4) of Cr.P.C. in
which she states that she was working in BARC from April 2016 to
October 2020. She was holding post of Deputy General Manager.
She was instructed by Romil Ramgadiya, Chief Operating Officer
and Manishankar, H.R. Head. When she raised complaint Romil
was annoyed. She also stated that applicant was involved in
manipulation. Learned Special P.P. took me through several
documents, statements which is part of charg-sheet and submitted
 19 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

that the applicant has played prime role in TRP manipulation. He is
not entitle for bail. Further investigation in relation to the chats and
other factors is still in progress. Although the charge-sheet is filed,
provision was made for further investigation in accordance with Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. The learned Special P.P. also took me
through the several chats which are part of charge-sheet and
submitted that thorough investigation is required in relation to the
conversation via chats between the applicant and the co-accused. 9. Mr. Hiray submitted that the fact that investigation is
still in progress is evident from the fact that requisite application was
made before the Trial Court seeking permission to interrogate the
applicant. The application was granted. It is submitted that the
applicant if released on bail is likely to tamper with the evidence.
The custody of the Applicant is necessary to further investigate the
offences. Sessions Court has rejected bail by assigning cogent
reasons. He relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of
Rana Kapoor v/s. Directorate of Enforcement and Anr. dated 25
January 2021 and submitted that the observations made in the said
order are applicable to the present case. It is submitted that while
granting bail the Court has to take into consideration nature of
accusations, evidence in support, severity of punishment, magnitude
of offence, etc. It is submitted that the Sessions Judge while rejecting
the application for bail has considered all the aspects and found that
 20 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

the Applicant is not entitled for bail. The applicant has not made
out case to deviate from the observations of the Sessions Court. 10. Mr. Hiray further submitted that the applicant is
mastermind in the present crime. The voluminous objectionable
WhatsApp chats disclosed that the entire conspiracy was between the
applicant, channel owner and anchor of particular TV channel. It is
not the case of mere manipulation of TRP but it is more than that
though the Investigating Officer filed charge-sheet against the
accused, the record is required to be scrutinised. Investigation in
relation to the WhatsApp chats is still in progress. The applicant is
not entitle for parity as role attributed to the accused who were
granted bail can be distinguished. 11. The learned Special P.P. has also handed over the sealed
envelope containing the documents relating to the status of the
investigation. 12. Having heard both the sides I have perused the
documents. The charge-sheet contains about more than 4000 pages.
The charge-sheet includes statement of witnesses, documents and
the purported WhatsApp chats between the accused. From the
documents on record it is apparent that the First Information Report
was registered in pursuant to receipt of the alleged secret information
by the police on 6 October 2020. The First Information Report
 21 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

mentions that on receipt of the information, Vishal Ved Bhandari
was taken into custody and enquiry was made with him. He
disclosed that he is employed with Hansa Research Group Pvt. Ltd.
(complainant's company) as relationship manager. He also disclosed
about his involvement in increasing TRP of particular channel by
inducing persons with gratification. Complainant's statement was
recorded after he visited police station on receipt of call from the
Assistant Police Inspector attached to Kandivali Police Station. The
First Information Report then reproduced the version of the
complainant. He has described the role of BARC and Hansa
Research Group Pvt. Ltd. The complainant further stated that
Vishal Bhandari was working as Relationship Manager with Hansa
Research Group Pvt. Ltd. The complainant stated that Vishal
Bhandari had disclosed about the manipulation of TRP. He also
gave details of the persons with whom the transactions were
conducted. The FIR is based on the information provided by Vishal
Bhandari. It is pertinent to note that Vishal Bhandari was impleaded
as accused in the case. The prosecution case proceeds with the
version of the person who has been impleaed as an accused having
involved in the manipulation of TRP. Vishal Bhandari was
appointed as Relationship Manager by Hansa Group. It is alleged
that it is disclosed that he acted in connivance with the other persons
and paid gratification to the persons in whose houses barometers
installed. It is relevant to note that Vishal Bhandari had not
 22 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

disclosed the involvement of the Applicant in any manner. During
the course of investigation, about 14 persons were arrested. Accused
No.14 is Romil Ramgadia. He was arrested on 17 December 2020.
He has been granted bail by the learned Magistrate on 4 January
2021. The case of the prosecution is that during the course of
interrogation of accused No.14, he had revealed the involvement of
the applicant in manipulation of TRP. Romil was also working with
BARC. He was Chief Operating Officer. The charge-sheet provides
the role played by Romil. According to the prosecution he was
actively involved in the crime. The applicant was arrested on 24
December 2020 whereas Romil was granted bail by the Court of
Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate vide order dated 24
December 2020. On perusal of the order granting bail to Romil, it
can be seen that the Court had observed that charge-sheet is already
filed against 12 accused. The allegations against him is that he had
violated non-disclosure agreement. The Chief Operating Officer,
ARG Outliers Media Pvt. Ltd. Priya is protected with pre-arrest bail.
WhatsApp chats of the said accused were already recovered. Mobile
handset, lap-top, ipad are seized by the Investigating Officer. The
offence is exclusively triable by the said Court. The facts and
circumstances show that the material part of investigation is
completed. Hence, custodial detention of the said accused is not
necessary. If he is released on bail, it will not hamper further
investigation. So there is no propriety in keeping the said accused
 23 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

behind bar till conclusion of trial. It is pertinent to note that
according to prosecution, Romil has played a vital role. The
prosecution proceeds on the basis that he was acting in connivance
with the applicant. He was granted bail on the ground that the
investigation is substantially completed, there is recovery of chats
and chargesheet is already filed. The learned Special P.P. has
however contended that bail granted to Romil is sought to be
cancelled by the Respondents. It is required to be noted that bail was
granted to him on 24 December 2020. 13. The applicant was in police custody for initial period and
subsequently he was remanded to judicial custody. Although the
prosecution contends that the custody of the applicant is necessary
for further investigation and provision in that regard is made while
filing charge-sheet, the fact remains that the charge-sheet was filed
against the applicant within short time on 11.1.2021. However, it is
now contended that the investigation is in progress. If investigation
was at crucial stage, it is not clear as to why the charge-sheet was filed
hurriedly even before completion of the statutory period available to
file the charge-sheet. On perusal of documents, it is apparent that
further investigation which was conducted was apparently on the
basis of several WhatsApp chats and e-mails exchanged interse
between the applicant and the co-accused. It is pertinent to note that
the whats-app chats are already on record. Some of the chats which
 24 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

were allegedly relates to sensitive information were allegedly received
by applicant. Undisputedly no offence is registered with regards to
the alleged sensitive chats. 14. It is also necessary to consider that the learned
Magistrate had rejected the application for bail preferred by the
Applicant primarily on the ground that the investigation is not
completed and at that juncture release of the accused will hamper
further investigation. In such circumstances, since the investigation
is in progress, it will not be proper to release the accused on bail.
Charge-sheet was filed. Thereafter, supplementary charge-sheet was
filed. It is not clear as to how long the purported further
investigation would continue. The applicant cannot be detained
indefinitely in the facts of this case. The matter relates to several
documents which are part of charge-sheet. The prosecution has
already filed charge-sheet consisting of more than 4000 pages.
Several statements of several witnesses are recorded. The accused
cannot be incarcerated in custody for indefinite period particularly in
the facts of this case and since the offences are triable by the
Magistrate. The application of the applicant was subsequently
rejected by the Sessions Court by order dated 20 January 2021. By
that time the charge-sheet was filed. The learned Sessions Judge
however observed that the applicant was in contact with television
owner and he exchanged WhatsApp messages. It was observed that
 25 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

police are verifying the WhatsApp chats and hence, the Court is of
the opinion that the custody is necessary and if at this stage the
accused is released on bail, then there is possibility that he may
tamper with the prosecution evidence and witnesses. In view of the
material on record, face to face interrogation of the accused is
required and on the sole ground of investigation and tampering of
evidence, the Court is not inclined to exercise judicial discretion in
favour of the accused. Thus, from the orders passed by the Courts
below, it is clear that bail was refused to the applicant primarily on
the ground of investigation and tampering of evidence. The alleged
chats are in custody of the police. There is no invocation of
provisions of any law in respect to alleged sensitive chats, whether
applicant shall be detained in custody for further investigation, when
main charge-sheet is filed which was followed by supplementary
charge-sheet. 15. The prosecution had preferred on application before trial
court seeking permission to record statement of applicant who was in
judicial custody. The learned Magistrate by order dated 3.2.2021
observed that charge-sheet is filed but as per Investigating Officer
during further investigation new material came to his knowledge and
it is necessary to make enquiry with accused. Considering the facts
permission was granted to Investigating Officer for one hour on
4.2.2021 and 5.2.2021. On similar application, learned Magistrate
 26 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

granted permission to Investigating Officer to interrogate applicant
for one hour on 11.2.2021 and 12.2.2021. Thus, this process is
completed. The contention of applicant is that there was no serious
interrogation about the case. 16. The Special P.P. has tendered the sealed envelope
containing certain documents which relates to status of investigation.
It is required to be noted that two charge-sheets are filed in this case
and according to prosecution they need to carry out further
investigation. I am not expressing any view on the documents
therein which were tendered for my perusal, in view of the
observations of the Apex Court in the case of P. Chidambaram v/s.
Directorate of Enforcement (supra). 17. The Investigating Agency has so far arrested 15 persons
including the applicant. 14 accused were granted bail. The
applicant is the only person who is in the custody. The learned
Sessions Judge has referred to face to face interrogation. It is not
clear as to in what context face to face interrogation is required to be
conducted. The applicant cannot be incarcerated in the custody till
the arrest of the other accused. Accused Vishal Ved Bhandari who
had spilled the beans about the manipulation of TRP and on whose
information the prosecution proceeded was arrested and granted
bail. He was Relationship Manager at Hansa Research Group Pvt. 27 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

Ltd. Bompellirao Narayan Mistry was arrested on 6 October 2020
and subsequently, granted bail. He was allegedly involved and
tagged as the mastermind of the scam and involved with Vishal
Bhandari. Shirish Satish Pattanshetty was arrested on 8 October
2020 and released on bail. He is owner of Fakta Marathi TV
channel who was alleged beneficial of TRP manipulation. Narayan
Nandkishor Sharma was arrested on 8 October 2020 and granted
bail. He was owner of Box Cinema. Vinay Rajendra Tripathi was
arrested on 12 October 2020 and granted bail. He was ex-employee
of Hansa Research Group Pvt. Ltd. First Information Report refers
to his involvement. He is the person who had allegedly approach
Vishal Ved Bhandari with the proposal of manipulating TRP by
payment of gratification to the persons in whose premises the barrow
meters were installed. Umesh Chandrakant Mishra was arrested on
16 October 2020 and granted bail. He was Relationship Manager
with Hansa Research Group in the past. Ramjee Dudhnath Sharma
was arrested on 20 October 2020 and granted bail. He was working
with Hansa Research Group Pvt. Ltd. in the past. Dineshkumar
Pannalal Vishwakarma was also former employee of Hansa Research
Group Pvt. Ltd. was arrested on 20 October 2020 and released on
bail. Harish Kamlakar Patil was working as a vendor for TV
channels was arrested on 22 October 2020 and released on bail.
Abhishek Kolawade @ Ajit @ Amit @ Mahadik worked as vendor
for television channels was arrested on 25 October 2020 and
 28 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

released on bail. Ashish Chaudhari was partner in Crystal Broad-
caste Pvt. Ltd. was arrested on 28 October 2020 and subsequently
released on bail. Ghanshyam Dilipkumar Singh was the head of
Republic TV Distribution. He was arrested on 10 November 2020
and granted bail. Vikas Shankarlal Khanchandani was CEO of
Republic TV. He was arrested on 13 December 2020 and granted
bail. Romil Vinodkumar Ramgadia was arrested on 24 December
2020 and released on bail. He was Chief Operating Officer. The
Applicant was arrested on the basis of the alleged disclosure made by
him. On perusal of the bail orders of all these accused which were
placed on record by learned Counsel for the applicant, it is apparent
that the learned Magistrate had observed that there is no propriety in
keeping the accused behind the bar till conclusion of trial. The
Court has also considered that there is no likelihood that the accused
would flee. Romil Ramgadia who was the Chief Operating Officer
was granted bail on the grounds referred to herein above. 18. Statement of Pekham Basu indicate that she was working
with BARC as Deputy General manager. Romil was working as
COO. Complaints were made to him and Manish Kumar. She was
removed from her department and transferred to another
department. She did not make complaint to CEO. She concluded
her statement alleging that applicant is involved in manipulation.
The applicant has contended that BARC is a joint industry company
 29 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

founded by stakeholder bodies that represent broad-casters,
advertisers and media agencies. The members of board are owners
and stakeholders of company and not CEO. 19. The learned Special P.P. has also contended that the
applicant had admitted in his memorandum statement that he has
played role in manipulation of TRP. He also admitted that huge
amount was received by him from the owner of Republic TV. The
valuable ornaments and other articles were recovered from him. It is
a settled law that the statement of the accused made while in custody
admitting guilt is inadmissible in evidence. Recovery of ornaments
are linked to crime on inferences. It is also submitted that the
manipulation of TRP was in respect of several barometers installed
for conducting TRP in the entire country. The learned Counsel for
the applicant however pointed out from the affidavit filed by the
prosecution in Criminal Writ Petition (St.) No. 3143 of 2020
wherein it is mentioned that 6% of the barometers involved in India
are installed in Mumbai and presently the TRP seems to be localized
scam and the Mumbai Police have jurisdiction to investigate into the
allegations in FIR No.143 of 2012. 20. The applicant had contended that his health condition is
deteriorating. He was admitted to J.J. hospital and then discharged.
Report was submitted to the Court stating that applicant's condition
 30 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

is stable and prison hospital is taking care and medication would be
provided to him. The prisoner will be referred to J.J. hospital or
NMMC hospital at Vashi, Navi Mumbai. 21. The applicant has contended that he is permanently
residing in Mumbai. He is working in the Media industry for last 22
years. The question of tampering does not arise because he is no
more working in BARC. He was CEO from June 2013 to November
2019. 22. Considering the aforesaid circumstances, there is no
impediment in granting bail to the applicant. (ii) The applicant is directed to be released on bail in
 connection with C.R.No.843 of 2020 registered with
 Kandivali Police Station and investigated by DCB/CID/
 CIU vide C.R. No. 143 of 2020 on executing PR bond
 in the sum of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs only)
 with one or more sureties in the like amount; (iii) The applicant shall deposit his passport with the
 31 Cr.BA 389.21.doc

 Investigating Officer; (iv) The applicant shall not leave India without the
 prior permission of the Trial Court; ( v) The applicant shall report DCB CID CIU once in
 a month on 1st Saturday of the month between 11.00
 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. for a period of six months and
 thereafter once in three months on 1 st Saturday of the
 month between 11.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. till further
 orders. (vi) The applicant shall not tamper with evidence; and (vii) The applicant shall attend the Trial Court on the
 date of the hearing of the case regularly unless exempted
 by the Court. (viii) The applicant is permitted to furnish provisional
 cash bail security in the sum of Rs.2,00,000/- for a
 period of six weeks in lieu of surety. (ix) Bail Application is disposed of. (x) All concerned shall act on authenticated copy. PRAKASH D. NAIK, J.