1. The present petition has been filed by the petitioner for quashing of FIR

 bearing No. 0051 dated 06.04.2019 for commission of offence under

 section 376 RPC registered with Police Station, R. S. Pura at the

 instance of respondent No. 3. 2. It is stated that the respondent No. 3 who is resident of a nearby village

 of the petitioner, was known to the petitioner. The petitioner went to the

 Cyprus Europe in the year, 2008 and came back to India in the year,

 2013. The respondent No. 3 got married with one Manjeet Singh of

 Gurdaspur in the year, 2015 and settled in her matrimonial home after

 marriage. It is further stated that after some years of marriage, she came

 back to her village and coincidently met the petitioner at Talli Sahib

 Gurudwara in the year, 2016 and told the petitioner that she was having

 a marital dispute with her husband as well as her in-laws and she had 2 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 been residing with her parents now. The respondent No. 3 has also filed

 a petition under the Domestic Violence Act against her husband as well

 as in-laws. 3. It is further stated that thereafter the respondent No. 3 started becoming

 friendly with the petitioner while visiting the Gurudwara and started

 calling the petitioner on mobile. It was in the year, 2018, the respondent

 No. 3 started emotional blackmailing the petitioner by telling him that

 she was depressed and did not want to live but the petitioner took it

 lightly however, the respondent No. 3 started asking the petitioner to

 marry her which the petitioner refused as the respondent No. 3 was

 already married and her marriage was subsisting. Even otherwise the

 petitioner never had any such feelings towards her. It is further stated

 that the respondent No. 3 started requesting the petitioner for some

 monetary help to contest the litigation with the husband as well as her

 in-laws and the petitioner gave a sum of Rs. 10,000/- to the respondent

 No. 3. 4. The petitioner claims to have suffered shocked of his life when in the

 first week of March, 2019, the respondent No. 3 threatened the

 petitioner to pay Rs. 5 lacs to her otherwise she would file a case of

 rape against the petitioner. On 4th or 5th of March, the petitioner got a

 call from a mobile bearing No 8716897851 and the person calling the

 petitioner identified himself as Advocate Harpreet Singh who told the

 petitioner that the respondent No. 3 was going to file a complaint

 against the petitioner for raping her on the promise of marriage and in

 case the petitioner paid a sum of Rs. 5 lacs, then the matter could be 3 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 settled. The petitioner refused to pay anything and on 10.03.2019 he

 was called by the Police from Police Station, R. S. Pura and as the

 petitioner went to the Police Station, he was detained and taken in

 custody and on enquiry, the Police told him that the respondent No. 3

 had filed a complaint against the petitioner under section 376 RPC and

 in case the petitioner wanted to compromise with the respondent No. 3,

 he would be released from custody. 5. It is further stated that as the petitioner was left with no option but to

 compromise, otherwise he would have been falsely implicated in the

 false case under section 376 RPC ruining the life of the petitioner, he

 agreed to give Rs. 1.50 lacs to the respondent No. 3 under duress and

 after the family of the petitioner paid her the said amount, the

 respondent No. 3 gave the statement to the Police that she did not want

 to press her complaint against the petitioner whereupon the petitioner

 was released from the custody on 13.03.2019. 6. It is further averred that to the surprise of the petitioner, the respondent

 No. 3 again started blackmailing the petitioner demanding Rs. 3.5 lacs

 more from the petitioner but as the petitioner was not having that

 amount, he refused to pay the same. Thereafter, the respondent No. 3

 came to the petitioner and told him that she had lodged the FIR against

 the petitioner under section 376 RPC in the Police Station, R. S. Pura

 and in case the petitioner failed to pay her Rs. 5 lacs, he would be

 arrested by the Police but since the Police was aware about the entire

 matter, so no action was taken by the Police against the petitioner on the

 basis of false and frivolous complaint of respondent No. 3. The 4 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 petitioner enquired and found that the respondent No. 3 again filed a

 false and fabricated complaint before the JMIC R. S. Pura and on the

 directions of the JMIC R. S. Pura under section 156(3) Cr.P.C, the

 Police registered the FIR bearing No. 0051 under section 376 RPC

 against the petitioner on 06.04.2019 (supra). 7. The petitioner has impugned the FIR (supra) on the following grounds: 8. The petitioner has placed on record the certified copy of the FIR,

 certified copy of the application filed by the respondent No. 3 against

 her husband and in-laws, the copy of the application filed by the

 respondent No. 3 with the Police Station on 09.03.2019 and the

 statement made by the respondent No. 3 with regard to the withdrawal

 of her complaint. 9. Response has been filed by the respondent Nos. 1 and 2 in which it is

 stated that the FIR in question was registered on the basis of directions 6 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 of the learned JMIC R. S. Pura and the statement of the victim has been

 recorded under section 164-A Cr.P.C. 10. The respondent No. 3 has also filed the response in which it is stated

 that the petitioner and the complainant (respondent No. 3) incidentally

 became Face book friends in the year, 2012-13 and started chatting with

 and meeting each other and once the petitioner took the complainant to

 his house at Chak Mohd. Yar under the pretext of introducing her to his

 parents but no family member of the petitioner was present in the house

 at that time. The petitioner served a cold drink to the complainant that

 rendered her unconscious. On regaining her consciousness, she found

 herself as well as the petitioner nude. After the above incident, the

 petitioner started harassing and threatening the respondent No. 3 that he

 had clicked her nude photographs and prepared her nude videos and

 would circulate them in case she lodged any report against him or

 disclosed the incident to anyone. It is further stated in the response that

 in the meantime, the respondent No. 3 got married in the year, 2015 and

 started living a peaceful life with her husband Manjeet Singh in

 Gurdaspur and because of continuous threats of the petitioner, there was

 breakdown in her matrimonial life within less than a year of her

 marriage. The respondent No. 3 was compelled to lodge the report

 against the petitioner at Police Station, R. S. Pura on 09.03.2019. The

 Police, however, hushed up the matter by obtaining her signatures on a

 pre-written statement, which was recorded in Urdu on 13.03.2019 as the

 respondent No. 3 was never aware about the contents of the same. The 7 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 respondent No. 3, thereafter, was constrained to file the application

 under section 156(3) Cr.P.C. 11. Mr. Vishal Sharma, learned counsel for the petitioner has vehemently

 argued that the bare perusal of the application on the basis of which the

 respondent No. 3 moved an application under section 156(3) Cr.P.C.

 before the concerned Magistrate, would reveal that the only allegation

 was that the petitioner after having physical relations refused to marry

 her and even in an application filed under section 156(3) Cr.P.C. vague

 allegations have been leveled. He further stated that that the present FIR

 has been lodged by the respondent No. 3 only to blackmail the

 petitioner and to force him to cough up more money. 12. Per contra, Mr. Ayushman Kotwal, learned counsel appearing for the

 respondent No. 3-prosecutrix has vehemently argued that the FIR

 cannot be quashed and further that even the statement of the prosecutrix

 has been recorded under section 164-A Cr.P.C. the perusal of which

 would reveal that offence under section 376 RPC is made out against

 the petitioner. Mr Aseem Sawhney, learned AAG also argued on the

 similar lines. 13. Heard and perused the record including the Case Diary. 14. From the record it is evident that on 09.03.2019, the respondent No. 3

 lodged a report with SHO Police Station, R. S. Pura in which it was

 stated by her that 8 years ago, she came into contact with the petitioner

 and they both became friends. The petitioner promised to marry her and

 continued to rape her. He even made the respondent No. 3 pregnant

 twice but thereafter aborted with medicines. He continued to persuade 8 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 the respondent No. 3 that he would marry her and even clicked her nude

 photographs and now he was avoiding to marry her. It was further

 stated in the said application that on 08.03.2019 at around 11-12 AM,

 the petitioner met her near Petrol Pump, R. S. Pura and he was

 accompanied by two persons. He told the respondent No. 3 to have

 physical relations with them but she told him that he had to solemnize

 marriage with her and still he was indulging in such bad acts. Then the

 petitioner started abusing her and threatened to kill her, in the event, she

 lodged any report with the Police. In the application that was initially

 filed by the respondent No. 3, the only allegation is that the petitioner

 had a sexual relation with her on numerous occasions and promised to

 marry her. 15. The application filed by the respondent No. 3 under section 156(3) Cr.P.C is reproduced as under: 16. In the application under section 156(3) Cr.P.C, the respondent No. 3

 had stated altogether different story whereas in the application filed on

 09.03.2019 by the respondent No. 3, she had simply stated that the

 petitioner asked her to have sexual intercourse with his friends and she

 refused and then the petitioner abused her and threatened to kill her and

 in the said application there was no averment that the petitioner tried to

 pull her inside the car and touched her private parts of her body.

 Further, even in the application, it is not mentioned as to when she was

 raped by the petitioner. A perusal of the statement made by the

 respondent No. 3 reveals that the respondent No. 3 came into contact

 with the petitioner on Face book and used to chat with him and they

 became good friends. After two three months, they met with each other

 and one day, the petitioner called her at Simbal Morh, took her to his

 home at Chak Mohd. Yar. He gave her cold drink and she became

 unconscious. After some time she regained her consciousness and found

 herself and the petitioner to be in nude condition. She told him as to

 why he forcibly made physical relations with her but he did not reply. 12 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 After few days the petitioner made a phone call and told her that he had

 taken her nude photographs and had made video and threatened her that

 if she did not come to his home, he would circulate the nude

 photographs and videos at the internet. After that the petitioner forcibly

 and by blackmailing made physical relations and raped her. Twice she

 became pregnant and he gave medicines to abort the pregnancy. On

 08.03.2019, the petitioner called her at R. S. Pura's Park and he came

 along with his two friends in the Bolero Vehicle. The petitioner asked

 her to sit in the vehicle and also told her to have physical relation with

 his friends which she refused and then she returned home. Thereafter

 she gave an application registration of FIR. 17. From the comparative perusal of the application dated 09.03.2019,

 application filed under section 156(3) Cr.P.C, the statement recorded

 under section 164-A CrPC of the respondent No. 3-victim as well as her

 objections, the whole grievance of the respondent No. 3 is with regard

 to the entering into physical relations with the petitioner on account of

 promise to marriage by the petitioner and that too prior to the

 solemnization of marriage of respondent No. 3 with one Manjit Singh at

 Gurdaspur. It is not in dispute that there is marital discord between the

 respondent No. 3 and her husband. The respondent No. 3 filed

 application on 09.03.2019 and in that it was no where whispered that

 the respondent No. 3 was already married and even in her application

 under section 156 (3) Cr.P.C, the respondent No. 3 did not mention that

 she was married. But, in the response filed by the respondent No. 3 to

 the present petition, she has stated that she was married with Manjit 13 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 Singh and because of the conduct of the petitioner, her married life has

 been spoiled. Even if, allegation leveled in the application filed on

 dated 09.03.2019 and application under section 156(3) Cr.P.C. coupled

 with her statement recorded under section 164-A Cr.P.C, what

 transpires is that the respondent No. 3 and the petitioner were in

 physical relationship prior to the marriage of the respondent No:3 and

 for these 8 years, the respondent No. 3 never bothered to lodge any

 complaint against the petitioner, which clearly shows that she had been

 consenting party to the physical relations made with the petitioner.

 Even after having physical relations with the petitioner, the respondent

 No. 3 got married and even till marriage in the year 2015, no complaint

 was lodged by her. In the application dated 09.03.2019, the grievance of

 the respondent No. 3 was that the petitioner was avoiding to marry her

 after having physical relations with her. It is difficult to comprehend as

 to how the petitioner could have married her, when she was already

 married. More so, even the allegations regarding physical relations

 made between the petitioner and the respondent No. 3 are vague. No

 year, month and dates have been mentioned when such relations were

 made and on the basis of such allegations no prudent person can ever

 reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding

 against the accused. 18. In State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal , reported in 1992 Supp (1) SCC

 335, the Apex Court has laid down following criteria for exercising

 power under section 483 while considering issue of quashing

 FIR/criminal proceedings: cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a
 police officer without an order of a Magistrate as
 contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or
 complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on
 the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a
 just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for
 proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in
 any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned
 Act (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted)
 to the institution and continuance of the proceedings
 and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code
 or the concerned Act, providing efficacious redress
 for the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly
 attended with mala fide and/or where the proceeding
 is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for
 wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view
 to spite him due to private and personal grudge." 19. Otherwise also, law is well settled that when there is allegation that the

 sexual relationships were made on the basis of false promise of

 marriage, then it has to be established that promise of marriage was a

 false promise, given in bad faith and with no intention of being adhered 15 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 to at the time it was given. In Pramod Suryabhan Pawar v. State of

Maharashtra , reported in (2019) 9 SCC 608, the Apex Court quashed

the FIR by observing as under: Therefore, even if the facts set out in the
 complainant's statements are accepted in totality, no
 offence under Section 375 IPC has occurred." 20. Further the Apex Court in Sonu @ Subhash Kumar vs. State of

 Uttar Pradesh and another , reported in 2021 (2) JKJ (SC) 337, has

 referred to following three important aspects while quashing the charge

 sheet: 21. For all what has been discussed above, this Court is of the considered

 view that no offence under section 376 RPC against the petitioner is

 made out and the continuance of the FIR impugned shall be nothing but

 an abuse of process of law, as such, the FIR bearing No. 0051 dated

 06.04.2019 for commission of offence under section 376 RPC 17 CRM(M) No. 249/2019 registered with Police Station R.S Pura is quashed. Case Diary be

 returned to learned AAG. (Rajnesh Oswal)
 Judge
JAMMU
03.11.2021
Rakesh
 Whether the order is speaking: Yes/No
 Whether the order is reportable: Yes/No