1. Gopi Cinema, petitioner has filed this petition challenging the order dated 10th February, 1988, passed by the Deputy Commissioner, Entertainment Tax. Gandhinagar Division at Annexure 'C', order dated 9th August, 1988, passed by the Entertainment Tax Collector, District Kheda at Annexure 'D' and also the order passed by Commissioner of Entertainment Tax, Gujarat State, dated 7th February, 1989 and also the notice dated 27th February, 1989, issued by Deputy Commissioner, Entertainment Tax, Gandhinagar Division, stating that if the payment of entertainment tax Rs. 48.745/- is not paid the property may be taken auction in this behalf. 2. The facts giving rise to this petition are as under :-- 3.1 It was further submitted that it was an anonymous application the authority ought not to have consider the complaint in this behalf. He submitted that the charges against the petitioner for issuing duplicate tickets there is no evidence on record and the authority ought not to have come to the said conclusion. It was only charge that the ticket No. 09749 was sold on 4-10-87 but not shown in the sale register and wrongly shown in the register of 9-10-87. The respondent authorities have failed to see as to why should the complaint tear off the portion containing the series of the ticket. Secondly this being a judicial inquiry, the respondents authorities should have gone into it and found out whether this was in fact a ticket of 'K' series or not or whether the complainant was resorting to falsehood. He submitted that the findings of the authority that the petitioner has destroyed the counterfoil without assessment there is no evidence on record and, therefore, same could not have been relied upon, and therefore, the authority has passed the order on surmises and conjectures and illegal approach done by the authority for assessing which is based on two tickets. It was stated that the impugned order at Annexures-C,D and E are not based on any evidence adduced at the time of inquiry and therefore the impugned orders passed by the authorities at Annexures-C,D & E are bad in law and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 3.2 Learned Advocate for the petitioner submitted that the orders which are challenged before this Court that is the order dated 10th February, 1988, passed by Deputy Commissioner, Entertainments Tax, order dated llth August, 1988, passed by Collector, Entertainments Tax and also the order of the Government i.e. Commissioner, Entertainments Tax, State of Gujarat dated 2nd February, 1989, are absolutely perverse and very negation of the elementary requirement of judicial proceeding. He further submitted that these orders are contrary to the show-cause-notice issued in this behalf. He submitted that approach of the authority could never be said to be a rational or Judicious and is manifestly perverse, ex facie deserves to be quashed and set aside. 3.3 Learned Advocate for the petitioner further submitted that the aforesaid orders are also contrary to the provisions of Section- 26 of the Act which provides that the authorities have a Judicial power in deciding this matter. He further submitted that this is a case of no evidence and in support of his contention he has relied upon the Division Bench judgment of this Court in the case of Siddarth Mohanlal Sharma v. South Gujarat University Reported in 1982 (1) GLR 233 particularly he has relied upon paragraphs 20, 24 and 30 of the said judgment which reads as under : The learned Author has pointed out that "no evidence" rule has some affinity with the substantial evidence rule of American law which, as explained by Bernard Schwartz in his treatise of Administrative Law, 1976 Edition, at page 595, means, "such evidence as might lead a reasonable person to make a finding." In other words, according to the learned Author The evidence in support of a fact-finding is substantial when from it an inference of existence of the fact may be drawn reasonably." 4. On the other hand Mr.B.Y. Mankad, learned AGP has appeared on behalf of the respondents. He has relied upon the record of the case and also the affidavit-in-reply filed by respondent in this behalf. He submitted that when three authorities have come to the conclusion and the authorities have given congent and convincing reasons for arriving at the said conclusion this Court may not sit an appeal over the said decision and under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India this Court may not exercise its discretion to quash and set aside the said findings. The learned AGP has submitted that in this case charge against the petitioner was a grave charge of issuing duplicate tickets and there may be certain surmises and conjectures has to be based upon. However, he submitted that surmises and conjectures made by the authorities are based on some evidence and therefore it cannot be said that of the findings of the authorities are perverse or findings of the authorities are based on evidence. He has shown me the reasonings the three authorities which I have referred earlier. He has also relied upon the affidavit-in- reply filed by the authority in this behalf. He has also relied upon the record of the case in this behalf. 4.1 He has also relied upon the provisions of Gujarat Entertainments Tax Act, 1977 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') particularly Section 2(g) which provides payment of admission, Sub-clause (1) of Section 2(g) provides any payment made by a person who, having been admitted to one part of a place of entertainment, is subsequently admitted to another part thereof for admission to which a payment involving tax or more tax is required. Sub-clause (ii) of Section 2(g) provides any payment for seats or other accommodation in a place of entertainment. Sub-clause (iii) of Section 2(g) provides for any payment for a programme or synopsis of an entertainment. Clauses 4, 5 and 6 are not relevant and therefore I am not referring the same. Section 3 provides tax on payments for admission to entertainments which provides that there shall be levied and paid to the State Government on (a) every payment for admission to an entertainment, other than the payment for admission referred to in Clause (b) at the rates specified in the said act. Further clauses which are not relevant I am not referring to the said clauses in this behalf. Section 7 provides admission to entertainments. Section 8 provides returns and assessments. Section 9 provides assessment of escaped payments for admission and re-assessment of payments for admission assessed at lower rate. Section 10 provides payment of tax. Section 12 provides for appeal. Section 13 provides for revision of orders. Section 19 provides for tax or penalty to be recoverable as arrears of land revenue. Section 20 provides for forfeiture of security. Section 31 provides power to make rules which provides that the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 4.2 In exercise of Sub-section (4) of Section 31 of the Gujarat Entertainments Tax Act, 1977 the Government framed the Gujarat Entertainment Tax Rules 1979. Rule 2(4) provides purchaser means a person who is admitted to an entertainment. Rule 8 provides manner and period of payment of tax, penalty, interest and composition money. Rule 9 provides order of assessment. Rule 10 provides for appeal. Rule 11 provides manner in which appeal shall be heard and decided. Rule 12 provides for revision. Rule 13 provides manner in which revision application shall be heard and decided. Rule 18 provides notice for failure to pay tax etc.
 

4.3 Under the said rules the authority has also provided forms which provides form of ticket apporval register to be maintained by the proprietor. Under the rules the authority has to fill up the weekly return, monthly return, form also provides entertainment tax during the relevant period. Form also provides for challan by which tax is to be paid and notice and other things. 4.4. He submitted that in this case petitioner while issuing duplicate tickets tried to evade payment of entertainment tax as well as payment of other legitimate taxes and wants to pocket entire amount of collection and has indulging the systematic evasion of tax in this behalf. He therefore submitted that the Court should not be lenient over this fact and the Court must take a strict view in the matter in this behalf. 4.5 On conjoint reading of the Act and the rules and the forms and the aforesaid decisions, the learned AGP has submitted that it was an obligation of the petitioner to issue proper tickets by which the charges and fees for entertainment tax to be provided under the law, the theatre owner is supposed to collect both his fees as well as entertainment tax a composite amount levied of sale of tickets. When he sold the tickets and collected the amount of fees for the entertainment and admission then it was his duty to deposit the same before the Government because he is collecting the tax on behalf of the Government and it is his duty that as and when tickets are sold and as and when entertainment tax is collected he must fill up the form showing the exact amount of tax and after the sale of the tickets he has to maintain register and also preserve the counterfoil of the tickets so that the authority can properly collect the amount of entertainment tax from the theatre owner in this behalf. 4.6 Mr. Mankad, learned AGP submitted that this is a case of pure tax evasion of the entertainment tax and others so the same must be so construed as to disfavour tax evading measure adopted by the assesses and it has to be interpreted in such a way that the act of cinema owner by printing duplicate tickets and thereby evading not only entertainment tax but also evading legitimate tax of Income-tax and other taxes had to be deprecated and Court must take strict view in the matter. He has referred to the Constitution Bench judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mcdowell and Company Limited v. Commercial Tax Officer reported in (1985) 3 SCC 230 : (AIR 1986 SC 649). He has relied upon Paras 17 and 45 of the said judgment where the Hon'ble Supreme Court has considered the provisions of principle of tax evasion which reads as under: 4.7 The learned AGP further submitted that the theatre owner is trying not only to evade the payment of entertainment tax but when he issued duplicates tickets he is also trying to evade the payment of legitimate tax, he is the owner showing the wrong information to the authority and thereby trying to pocket entire amount of fees as well as tax which cannot be collected by the authority in this behalf. He, therefore, submitted that in view of the same, when the authority wanted to inquire about the actual sale of tickets he is the owner and asked for the counterfoil of the tickets the owner had given an evasive reply and stated that the counterfoil of the tickets were destroyed. In view of the same, the authority cannot and could not properly assessed the amount of fees and entertainment tax from the theatre owner and, therefore, there is no alternative but the authority has to rely upon the surmises and conjectures in this behalf. In view of the same, this Court may not exercise Jurisdiction under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India when all the three authorities have held against the petitioner in this behalf. 4.8 He has also relied upon the book of new Jurisprudence by D.A.Upponi in Para 10.5 on page 153 which reads as under : 4.9 He has relied upon the Judgment of this Court in the case of Linder Frank Wolfgang v. Yogesh D. Shan, Suptd . of Customs Reported in 2001 (2) GLH 127particularly Para 9.1 on page 139 which reads as under: 4.9(A) Being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the aforesaid judgment, Under Frank Wolfgang filed an appeal before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and the Hon'ble Su-preme Court of India by judgment reported in 2001 (3)GLH 310 in the case of Under Frank Wolfgang v. Yogesh D. Shah, Suptd . of Customs and Anr. where the Hon'ble Supreme Court has only reduce the terms of sentence, however the other portion of the Judgment has not been altered and the same is binding to this Court. 4.10. He has also tried to support the order of the authorities in this behalf. He has also relied upon the contents of the order which are produced in this behalf. He has also relied upon the affidavit filed by Chandresh J.Patel, Deputy Commissioner of Entertainments Tax, Gandhinagar which has been filed on 16-10-2001. 5. I have gone through the record of the case. I have also gone through the findings of all the three authorities and the record of the case and also the contention of the petitioner and also the Judgment of this Court in the case of Siddharth Mohanlal Sharma (supra). I have also considered the three orders passed by the authority, affidavit-in-reply filed on behalf of the Government, provisions of the Entertainment Tax and the Rule. Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mc Dowell and Company Ltd. (supra), judgment in the case of Under Frank Wolfgang (supra) and also the Book of New Jurisprudence by D.A. Upponi in this behalf. In my view, none of the contentions raised by the petitioner requires to be accepted. The authorities have led the evidence and gave findings and therefore it does not lie in the mouth of the petitioner to say that this case is of no evidence. 6. In my view while issuing duplicate tickets which does not form part of regular tickets is a clear intention by petitioner to evade the payment of entertainment tax. The petitioner has completely adopted the practice of evasion not only entertainment tax but whatever income he receives that will also not reflected in the account. He will also try to evade other payment of taxes namely Income-tax and other taxes. As the Hon'ble Supreme Court deprecated the practice of evasion of tax in Mc. Dowell's case (supra), and as per the judgment of this Court, when the act of a person is like this them severe trauma affected with the health and wealth of the nation and, therefore, this Court do not consider the case of the petitioner very lightly. The act of the petitioner affects economy of the State and therefore deterrent punishment has to be meted out in this case as there are lot of cinemas working in the State, and if such type of offence of bogus tickets is to be considered lightly then it will affect the society at large. In view of the same it is right to view this type of activity with gravity and hence the orders passed by the authorities are required to be confirmed in this behalf. The authorities have given very cogent and convincing reasons for arriving at the said findings and the authorities have not committed any material irregularity or judicial error and the orders passed by the authorities are also in consonance with the. Entertainment Tax Act and the Rules and, therefore, I do not find any case to interfere with the orders of the authorities in this behalf. Hence the petition requires to be dismissed and accordingly the same is dismissed. Rule is discharged. No order as to costs.