Date: 12-07-2016

 The petitioner has filed the present writ application for

 quashing the First Information Report (for short 'FIR') bearing G.R.P.

 Patna Junction Case No. 417 of 2014 registered under Sections 341 , 323 , 427 , 307 , 379 , 504 , 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (for

 short ' IPC '). The aforesaid FIR has been registered by the G.R.P.,

 Patna Junction on 07.09.2014 on a written complaint of one

 correspondent of E.T.V. Bihar and Jharkhand, namely, Neel Kamal

 Kumar (Opposite Party No.2). 2. In the FIR it is alleged that on 07.09.2014 at about 9.00
 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.1115 of 2014 dt.12-07-2016 2/8 a.m. the informant received a call from a railway passenger that illegal

 extortion of money from railway passengers by the Train Ticket

 Examiners (for short 'TTE') is taking place at Patna Junction under

 the patronage of the petitioner Mehboob Rab, the Chief Commercial

 Manager (for short 'CCM'), East Central Railway (for short 'ECR').

 On getting such information, the informant, a reporter of ETV reached

 Patna Junction along with his cameraman Rahul Kumar and started

 shooting the film of the ongoing illegal extortion. Audio video

 recording of the reaction of few railway passengers, who were being

 harassed and from whom illegal money was being taken, was also

 prepared. Having noticed the recording being made by the informant,

 the petitioner came there and gave a push to the cameraman because

 of which he fell down. When the informant saw this, he stopped the

 petitioner but the petitioner started abusing him. In the meantime,

 about one dozen supporters of the petitioner gathered there and started

 abusing the informant and his cameraman. The petitioner was

 repeatedly found shouting that 'you will telecast the video of illegal

 extortion, today I will kill you'. The petitioner also called few

 constables of RPF and took the informant and his cameraman near

 RPF Post. Thereafter, the petitioner left the place. The informant and

 his cameraman after standing near the RPF Post for some time went

 outside the Patna Station in the parking area. As soon as the informant
 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.1115 of 2014 dt.12-07-2016 3/8 reached near his car, 7-8 persons claiming to be men of the petitioner

 being dressed in TTE uniform came there and stopped the petitioner

 and his cameraman saying that the petitioner wants to meet him.

 Then, the petitioner himself came there and told his men to kill the

 informant and his cameraman, which led to their assault. The

 petitioner himself caught hold of the cameraman by neck but

 somehow both of them managed to save their lives and ran away but

 not before they were relieved of their wallet, chain and wrist watch. 3. It has been submitted by Mr. S. D. Sanjay, learned Senior

 Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner that the present FIR is

 nothing but an abuse of the process of law by the informant with an

 intention to harass the petitioner. The entire prosecution story is false

 and fabricated and devoid of even a pinch of truth. He has urged that

 the petitioner reached Patna Junction on 07.09.2014 at about 9.30 a.m.

 by Shramjeevi Express as the train was late. After detraining, the

 petitioner found large crowd gathering in the ticket checking zone. He

 proceeded towards the gathering of the large number of passengers

 where ticket checking activities were going on and asked the

 passengers to go out of the ticket checking zone and not to overcrowd

 the area. All the passengers dispersed from there but one passenger,

 one press reporter and one cameraman remained there. Then the

 petitioner asked the said passenger to go out but he said that he had
 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.1115 of 2014 dt.12-07-2016 4/8 bought an ordinary ticket and traveled from Ara to Patna in a

 mail/express train but still he was fined then the petitioner made him

 understand that ordinary ticket would not authorize him to travel by

 mail/express train. Upon getting such explanation, the said passenger

 also left. However, the informant and his cameraman, who remained

 there, started shouting on the petitioner. They said that the petitioner

 cannot stop them from shooting the film of the ticket checking activity

 and showing it to the Railway Board authorities. They even threatened

 the petitioner and made indecent remarks. 4. Mr. Sanjay has submitted that when the petitioner asked

 the informant and his cameraman to show the permission of shooting

 the film in the restricted Station area, they got further infuriated. They

 shouted that they are free to cover the news and shoot the films

 wherever they want and no body could stop them. They continued

 with their shoot and interfered in the ticket checking activity near

 Gate No.3 of Patna Junction. The petitioner asked one of the TTE and

 two RPF constables present there to take the informant and the

 cameraman to RPF Inspector and take necessary action as per the

 rules for causing disturbance in the government work. The RPF

 Inspector came there after 15-20 minutes and enquired about the

 whole incident and at the same time one lady TTE along with other

 lady TTEs came there to lodge an FIR for the injury caused on her
 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.1115 of 2014 dt.12-07-2016 5/8 face during the ticket checking activities by the informant and his

 photographer. Mr. Sanjay has also contended that at about 10.30 a.m.

 the petitioner was told by one of the staff that the press reporter and

 the cameraman have run away while being guarded by the RPF

 constables. On being apprised, the RPF Inspector told the petitioner

 not to worry and that they would be apprehended soon. However, later

 on, the petitioner came to know that instead of taking action on the

 report made by one Mr. K.K.Sinha, Commercial Supervisor, PNBE,

 the G.R.P. registered a false case against him. He has submitted that

 the FIR of the lady TTE has also been accepted afterwards and has

 been numbered as G.R.P. Patna Junction Case No. 418 of 2014. Mr.

 Sanjay has further submitted that the allegations made in the FIR are

 unbelievable and the FIR in question has been instituted with oblique

 motive. 5. On the other hand, Mr. Sanjay Pandey, learned G.P.-21

 has submitted that the allegations made in the FIR do attract the

 ingredients of a cognizable offence. Hence, an FIR has been instituted

 against the petitioner and investigation has been taken up. He has

 submitted that after the alleged occurrence, as stated in the FIR, the

 informant along with his cameraman Rahul Kumar approached the

 G.R.P. Patna Junction. They had sustained certain injuries on their

 arms, neck and forehead and as such they were sent to the Railway
 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.1115 of 2014 dt.12-07-2016 6/8 Hospital for examination. The Medical Officer of the Railway

 Hospital examined them and sent the injury reports showing the

 nature of injuries sustained by them as simple. He has submitted that

 the G.R.P. has also lodged an FIR being G.R.P. Patna Junction Case

 No. 418 of 2014 under Sections 353 , 354 and 34 of the IPC on receipt

 of written complaint of one Sanjana Sharma, TTE. The G.R.P. is

 investigating both the cases with all honesty and sincerely to reveal

 the real story behind the occurrence alleged in the aforesaid two FIRs.

 He has further submitted that the petitioner has also represented

 before the Director General of Police, Bihar pleading his innocence in

 the matter on 22nd October, 2014 and the Superintendent of Police,

 Rail (Headquarter), Patna has received the aforesaid representation on

 24th October, 2014 and a sincere and honest investigation into the

 matter is going on. The statements of the persons concerned have

 been recorded in the case diary and the investigation of the case is

 likely to conclude very soon. 6. I have heard the respective counsel for the parties and

 perused the record. 7. The allegations made in the FIR do attract the ingredients

 of a cognizable offence. Section 154 of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure (for short ' CrPC ') mandates that if an information relating

 to commission of a cognizable offence is given to the police, it must
 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.1115 of 2014 dt.12-07-2016 7/8 register an FIR and investigate the same. In that view of the matter,

 the very institution of the FIR in the present case is neither without

 jurisdiction nor against the mandate of the CrPC . The defence of the

 petitioner cannot be made a ground for quashing of the FIR as it is for

 the investigating agency to look into the veracity of the allegations

 made in the FIR and the defence taken by the petitioner at the stage of

 investigation. 8. It would be apparent from the pleadings of the parties

 that there are two versions of the incident which took place at the

 Patna Railway Station on 07.09.2014. In the first FIR, the informant-

 opposite party no.2 has leveled allegation of assault, theft, etc. against

 the petitioner and some other staff of the Railway whereas in the

 second FIR the allegation has been made by a lady TTE against the

 informant-opposite party no.2 of outraging her modesty and using

 criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty. Both the

 cases are at the advance stage of investigation. It is a settled law that if

 upon admitted facts and documents relied upon by the accused and

 without weighing or sifting evidence no case is made out, the criminal

 proceedings instituted against the accused are required to be quashed.

 However, in the present case, it cannot be said that upon admitted

 facts and the documents and without weighing or sifting the evidence

 no case is made out against the petitioner. Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.1115 of 2014 dt.12-07-2016 8/8 9. In that view of the matter, I am not inclined to accede to

 the prayer made by the petitioner. Accordingly, the writ application is

 dismissed. The interim order dated 28.07.2015 passed by this Court is

 vacated. (Ashwani Kumar Singh, J)

Pradeep/-