offence punishable under section 7 , 10 , 11 , 13 and 15 alleged to have been committed by a public
 servant, except with the previous sanction,- 2. The petitions have been filed against the orders passed by the
learned Special Judge, Assam, Guwahati in taking cognizance of the
offences either deeming prosecution sanction in absence of any order
pertaining to the same from the competent authority for several
years (even to the extent of 11 years in some cases), or taking
cognizance where there is refusal to grant sanction as per the advice
of the Judicial Department and the learned Advocate General of the
State. In some cases, prosecution sanction itself is under challenge
while in some other cases, plea of non-maintainability of the
proceedings in the Court of the learned Special Judge in absence of
prosecution sanction has been raised. In some other cases, referring
to the above categories of cases, challenge is to the proceedings and
orders / charge sheet pertaining to the same itself, although no
prosecution sanction is required. In all the petitions the prayer is to
set aside those orders and to quash the criminal proceedings. 3. The offences alleged against the petitioners are that of
alleged misappropriation of huge amounts by preparing false
bills/diverting funds from one scheme to another;
misappropriation of Govt. money by not entering the particular
amount in the receipt book and thereafter removing the pages
(original and duplicate) from the receipt books; misappropriation
of Govt. money by preparing falls bills showing payments to Muster
Roll Workers; misappropriation of huge Govt. money under the
scheme called Operation Black Board (OBB); defrauding of poor
farmers by placing supply orders with the particular firm and
receiving substandard materials (came to be known as Green
House Scam); fraudulent selection as Member/Chairman of Assam
Public Service Commission (APSC) for pecuniary gains; acquiring of
huge movable and immovable properties disproportionate to
known source of income; taking bribe and recovery of signed
currency notes from the possession of the accused; releasing of
loan installments on the basis of progress report of works without
any assessment and certification of the same in collusion with the
loanee etc. Criminal petitions Page 16 of 94 4. Each one of the cases and the pleas raised therein towards
assailing the orders passed by the learned Special Judge in respect of
the prosecution sanction either deeming it to be there or holding that
refusal to grant sanction is perverse being not based on the
evidence/materials and taking cognizance of the offences will be
dealt with in due course of the judgment. I deem it appropriate to
refer at this stage to the decisions on which the learned counsel for
the parties have placed reliance in support and against the impugned
orders passed by the learned Special Judge. 1. (2010) 14 SCC 527 ( State of Himachal Pradesh Vs.
 Nishant Sareen ) 2. (2005) 12 SCC 709 ( Dilawar Singh Vs. Parvinder Singh @
 Iqbal Singh ) 3. (2009) 11 SCC 299 ( Ram Naresh Prasad Vs. State of
 Jharkhand & Ors .) 4. AIR 1968 SC 117 ( Abhinandan Jha & Ors. Vs. Dinesh
 Mishra ) 5. (1997) 7 SCC 622 ( Manusukhlal Vithaldas Chauhan Vs.
 State of Gujarat ) 6. AIR 1948 PC 82 ( Gokulchand Dwarkadas Morarka Vs. The
 King ) 7. (2009) 17 SCC 92 ( State of Punjab & Anr. Vs. Mohammed
 Iqbal Bhati ) 8. (2003) 2 SCC 649 (M.C. Abraham & Anr. Vs. State of
 Maharastra & Ors.) 9. (2009) 8 SCC 617 ( State of Madhya Pradesh Vs. Sheetla
 Sahai & Ors .) 10. (1998) 1 SCC 226 ( Vineet Narain & Ors. Vs. Union of
 India & Anr .) 11. (2012) 3 SCC 64 ( Subramanian Vs. Manmohan Singh &
 Anr .) 12. (2010) 8 SCC 1 ( Vinod Sheth Vs. Devinder Bajaj &
 Anr .) 13. AIR 1967 SC 528 ( M.L. Sethi Vs. R.P. Kapur ) Criminal petitions Page 17 of 94 14. (2006) 1 SCC 294 ( Romesh Lal Jain Vs. Naginder
 Singh Rana ) 15. AIR 1966 SC 529 ( Martin Burn Ltd. Vs. Corpn of
 Calcutta ) 16. (2006) 4 SCC 584 ( Sankaran Moitra Vs. Sadhna Das &
 Anr .) 17. (2012) 2 SCC 731 ( Vasanti Dubey Vs. State of Madhya
 Pradesh ) 5. In Nishant Sareen (supra), it has been held by the Apex Court
that in case of any order refusing to grant sanction, the investigating
agency ought to have challenged the order of the sanctioning
authority. That was a decision rendered in the back ground of the
fact that once sanction was refused, the competent authority could
not have re-considered the same and granted sanction in absence of
any fresh materials. In Dilawar Singh (supra) the Court was
concerned with summoning of a co-accused. It was held that a
Special Judge while trying an offence under the P.C. Act cannot
summon another person and proceed against him in the purported
exercising of power under Section 319 Cr.P.C., if no sanction had
been granted by the appropriate authority for proceeding of such a
person as the existence of a sanction is sine qua non for his
cognizance of the offence qua that person. In Ram Naresh Prasad (supra) the Apex Court was concerned with cognizance of offence by
Magistrate and the direction that can be issued in case a final report
was submitted by the police under Section 173 Cr.P.C. as no case was
found against the accused. It was in the said fact situation, the Apex
Court held that the Magistrate cannot direct filing of charge sheet.
However, he has power either to take cognizance of offence or direct
further investigation. The decision in Abhinandan Jha (supra) has
been referred to so as to emphasis that the Magistrate cannot compel
the police to form a particular opinion on the investigation, and to
submit a report, accepting such opinion, as such a course of action
will be really encroaching on the sphere of the police and compelling
the police to form an opinion so as to accord with the decision of the
Magistrate. 6. In Manusukhlal Vithaldas Chauhan (supra) while holding that
the validity of the sanction will depend on the application of mind
by the sanctioning authority and that the said authority should not
pass the orders, mechanically but should apply its mind to the
relevant facts and circumstances of each case, it was also held that
the High Court exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 cannot
issue a writ of mandamus compelling the Government to reach a
particular decision for granting sanction. Referring to this decision,
Mr. K.N. Choudhury, learned Sr. Additional Advocate General, Assam
defending some of the accused petitioners submitted that although
the order passed by the competent authority refusing to grant
sanction might be bad in law being non-speaking coupled with non-
appreciation of the evidence, but the same cannot be a ground to
render it nonest and then to come to own conclusion by the Court
that on the basis of the materials on record, sanction ought to have
been granted. He submitted that at the best it could be a case of
remitting the matter back to the sanctioning authority for re-
consideration appreciating the materials/ evidence on record. 7. Gokulchand Dwarkadas Morarka (supra) is a case from the
Privy Council. This decision has been referred to in reference to the
above argument of the learned Sr. Additional Advocate General,
Assam that at best the matter could be remanded back to the
sanctioning authority so as to contend that the order of sanction
need not be in any form and that the prosecution sanction can be
refused on any ground. The decision in Mohammed Iqbal Bhati (supra) is a reiteration of the decision in Nishant Sareen (supra). The
decision in M.C. Abraham (supra) has been referred to, to bring
home the argument that the learned Special Judge could not have
directed the investigating agency to submit charge sheet consequent
upon the order passed on deemed sanction. In the said case, the
investigation was in progress. Referring to the statutory duty of the
investigating agency to fully investigate the matter and then submit a
report to the Magistrate, it was held that the High Court was in error Criminal petitions Page 19 of 94 to issue a direction that the case should not only be investigated, but
a charge sheet must be submitted. 8. The decision in Sheetla Sahai (supra) has been referred to so
as to contend that for the purpose of attracting the provisions of Section 197 Cr.P.C., it is not necessary that they must act in their
official capacity but even where public servants purport to act in
their official capacity, the same would attract the provisions of Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. The decision in Vineet Narayan (supra)
was exclusively referred to by the learned counsel for the parties,
which has been referred to in Subramanian Swamy (supra). It is in
this decision, the Apex Court issued directions as contained in
paragraph-58 of the judgment, one of which is the direction No. 15,
in which referring to the particular recommendation, it was held that
the time limit of three months for grant of sanction for prosecution
must be strictly adhered to with additional time of one month where
consultation is required with the Attorney General or any other law
officer in his office. While the learned counsel for the petitioners
argued that this time limit of three months does not lead to the
inference that upon failure to adhere to the same there should be a
deemed sanction. 9. Subramanian Swamy (supra) is the decision, on which the
learned Special Judge has primarily based his opinion regarding
requirement of the sanction within three months and the deduction
of the principle therefrom that upon failure to adhere to this time
limit of three months, there would be a deemed sanction entitling
the Court to proceed with the proceeding without even the required
sanction. The decision in Vinod Seth (supra) has been referred to in
reference to Vineet Narayan (supra) case to buttress the argument
that unless a deeming provision is made in the statue, the Court
cannot presume something, more particularly in the matter of
sanction. The decision in M.L. Sethi (supra) has been referred to so
as to contend that because of bar of jurisdiction in absence of the
required prosecution sanction, learned Special Judge could not have Criminal petitions Page 20 of 94 taken cognizance of the offence alleged to have been committed by
the accused. 10. The decision in Romesh Lal Jain (supra) is in respect of
quashment of sanction for proceeding on the plea that the sanction
was a composite one inclusive of section 19 of the P.C, Act and Section 197 Cr.P.C. It was held by the Apex Court that such
quashment by State was not proper. The said case was also posed
with the question as to when sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C. is
necessary and the stage thereof. It was held that sanction is
required to be obtained when the offence complained of against
the public servant is attributable to the discharge of his public
duty or has a direct nexus therewith. It was further held that
sanction is not necessary when the offence complained of has
nothing to do with the discharge of his duty. In paragraph 33 of the
said judgment it has been observed thus: (Emphasis supplied) 11. The decision in Martin Burn Ltd. (supra) has been referred to,
to bring home the argument that a result flowing from a statutory Criminal petitions Page 21 of 94 provision is never an evil. A court has no power to ignore that
provision to believe what it considers a distress resulting from its
operation. A statue must of course be given effect to whether a court
likes the result or not. The decision in Sankaran Moitra (supra) has
been referred to so as to emphasis on the requirement of obtaining
sanction to prosecute a public servant. It was held in the said
decision that the proceeding was hit by the provision under Section
197 Cr.P.C. and could not have been launched without the
contemplated sanction. However, it was also held that the question
of applicability of Section 197 Cr.P.C. may arise not necessarily at
the inception but even at a subsequent stage. In the given facts
and circumstances of the said case, the request to postpone the
decision on the said question was held not acceptable. In paragraph-
23 of the judgment, it has been observed thus: 12. The decision in Vasanti Dubey (supra) is the reiteration of the
decision in M.C. Abraham (supra). The decision in Mohammed Iqbal
Bhati (supra) has been referred to so as to contend that the Trial
Court itself could not have sat on appeal over the order refusing to
grant sanction, although the legality and/or validity of the order
granting sanction would be subject to review by it and that an order
refusing to grant sanction may attract judicial review by the superior
courts only. 13. Mr. Z. Kamar, learned P.P., Assam during the course of his
argument referred to the decisions in Vineet Narayan (supra) and Subramanian Swamy (supra) supporting the impugned orders passed
by the learned Special Judge submitted that the particular provisions
relating to sanction for prosecution are relatable only to the
acts/offence alleged to have been committed by the public servants
while acting or purporting to act in discharging of his official duty
and not otherwise. During the course of hearing, he also produced
the copy of the office order No. 31/5/05 dated 12.5.2005 of the CVC Criminal petitions Page 23 of 94 laying down the guidelines to be followed by the sanctioning
authority. The guidelines are in reference to the decision of the Apex
Court as indicated therein including the decision in Vineet Narayan (supra). 14. In addition to the above, he also placed reliance on the Office
Memorandum dated 3.5.2012 issued by the Government of India in
the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievance & Pension and the
decision dated 12.2.2013 of this Court in Crl. Pet. No. 575/2012
( Virendra Kr. Dhir Vs. C.B.I. ). He also placed reliance on the Office
Order No. 23/6/06 daed 23.6.2006 of the CVC; Circular No.
07/03/12 dated 28.3.2012 of the CVC and Guideline dated
31/5/2012 issued by the Ministry of Finance (Vigilance Department). 15. In Virendra Kr. Dhir (supra), it has been held that a
conspirator could not be delinked from a public servant for the
purpose of trial without considering the fact that scheme of special
law is to cover a non-public servant connected with the offence of
public servant. Referring to the Apex Court decision, it has been held
that if a non-public servant is also a member of the criminal
conspiracy for a public servant to commit any offence under P.C. Act ,
or such a non-public servant abetted any of the offences which the
public servant committed, such non-public servant is also liable to be
tried along with the public servant before a Court of Special Judge
having jurisdiction in the matter. It has also been held that there is
nothing to debar trial of a non-public servant for the offence
punishable under Section 12 and 14 (b) of the P.C. Act. 16. In the Office Order dated 12.5.2005, the CVC expressed its
concern about the delay in according sanction for prosecution under Section 19 of the P.C. Act and under Section 197 of Cr.P.C.. Such
concerns have been expressed in reference to the time limit of three
months laid down by the Apex Court. In the circular letter dated
28.3.2012, the CVC has referred to the decisions in Vineet Narayan
and Dr. Subramanian Swamy (supra) emphasizing the need to
adhere to the time limit towards granting or non-granting of Criminal petitions Page 24 of 94 prosecution sanction. Similarly in the Office memorandum dated
3.5.2012 also the Government of India in the Ministry of Personnel,
Public Grievances & Pension has observed that it is imperative that
cases of sanction for prosecution should be decided expeditiously and
within the timeframe of three months. As indicated in the said Office
Memorandum, the Government of India had constituted a Group of
Ministers (GoM), on 6.1.2011 with the approval of the Prime Minister,
to consider measures that can be taken by the Government to tackle
corruption. One of the terms of reference was to consider and advise
on "Fast tracking of all cases of public servants accused of
corruption". The Group of Ministers, while considering the terms of
reference, observed that it is imperative that cases of sanction for
prosecution should be decided expeditiously and within the time
frame of three months. The following are the recommendations of
the GoM: Wherever the Minister-in-charge of the
 Department is the competent authority and he
 decides to deny the permission, it would be
 incumbent on the Minister to submit, within 7
 days of passing such order denying the
 permission, to the Prime Minister for
 information. (c) It will be the responsibility of the Secretary
 of each Department. Ministry to monitor all
 cases where a request has been made for
 permission to prosecute. Secretaries may also
 submit a certificate every month to the
 Cabinet Secretary to the effect that no case is
 pending for more than 3 months, the reasons Criminal petitions Page 25 of 94 for such pendency and the level where it is
 pending may also be explained." 17. As indicated in the Office Memorandum, the aforesaid
recommendations have been accepted by the Government with the
approval of the Prime Minister. Accordingly direction has been issued
to All Ministers/Departments to ensure - 18. In Vineet Narayan (supra), the Apex Court was inclined to
monitor the investigation in the matter of accusation made against
high dignitaries. It was alleged that Government agencies like CBI
and reviewing authority had failed to perform their duties and legal
obligation. Because of such monitoring with various orders as
referred to in paragraph-7 of the judgment, the machinery of
investigation started moving and after investigating of the allegation
made against several persons, charges were filed. In paragraph 16 of
the judgment, it has been observed thus. 19. As a result of the debate in the proceedings in Vineet
Narayan (supra), certain committees came to be constituted with
certain terms of reference including the examination of the then
structures and working of the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and
related agencies. The particular committee while suggesting ways
and means towards effective investigation and for deciding the
question of grant of sanction, interalia recommended for time limit
of three months for sanction for prosecution with additional time of
one month where consultation is required with the Attorney General.
While doing so, the committee also took note of the earlier
guidelines relating to prosecution sanction issued from time to time. 20. Accepting the said proposal/recommendation, the Apex Court
in its various directions contained in paragraph 58 of the judgment in
Vineet Narain also directed that the time limit of three months for
granting sanction for prosecution must be strictly adhered to.
However, additional time limit of one month was also allowed in
case of requiring consultation with the Attorney General or any
other Law Officer in his office. 21. While issuing the aforesaid direction, the Apex Court also
recorded its experience in the field of proceeding with the finding
that the same was discouraging. In paragraph 52, 55, 56 and 58 of the Criminal petitions Page 27 of 94 judgment, the Apex Court made the following significant
observations: (Emphasis supplied) 22. Much have been debated on Subramanian Swamy 's (supra)
case as the learned Special Judge has exclusively referred to the said
decision in the impugned orders so as to come to the finding that in
absence of strict adherence to the aforementioned time limit of
three months for prosecution sanction, such sanction should be
deemed to have been granted. In the said case, the Apex Court was
concerned with a private citizen's initiative to obtain sanction in
reference to the P.C. Act, 1988 and the provisions thereof. It has
been held that there is no restriction on a private citizen filing a
private complaint against a public servant. It has also been held that
the Court is also not barred from taking cognizance of offence by
relying on incriminating materials collected by private citizen. It has
further been held that mandatory compliance with the directions
given in Vineet Narayan (supra) must be strictly adhered to
rejecting the plea that question of grant of sanction for prosecution
of a public servant charged with any of the offence enumerated in Section 19 (1) arises only at the stage when court decides to take
cognizance and any request made prior to that is premature. 23. In the aforesaid case, the appellant had been vigorously
pursuing the cases allegedly involving loss of thousands of crores of
Rupees to the public exchequer due to arbitrary and illegally grant of
license at the behest of the respondent No. 2. Noticing the delay in
responding to the appellant's persuasion in the matter, the Apex
Court also answered the question as to whether the sanction for
prosecution of the respondent No. 2 for the offence allegedly Criminal petitions Page 29 of 94 committed by him under the P.C. Act, 1988 is required even after he
resigned from the council of Minister through he continued to be a
member of Parliament. Referring to the Constitution Bench decision
in R.S. Nayak Vs. A.R. Antulay reported in (1984) 2 SCC 183
followed by the decision in Habibullah Khan Vs. State of Orissa reported in (1995) 2 SCC 437; State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. M.P.
Gupta reported in (2004) 2 SCC 349; Prakash Singh Badal Vs. State
of Punjab reported in (2007) 1 SCC 1 and Balakrishnan Ravi Menon
Vs. Union of India reported in (2007) 1 SCC 45, it has been held
that no such sanction is required as the respondent No. 2 was no
longer a Minister though he continued to be a member of Parliament. In paragraph 42 of the said judgment, the Apex Court while holding
that the decisions relied upon by the learned Attorney General did
not have any bearing on the moot question whether respondent No.
1, was required to take appropriate decision in the light of the
direction contained in Vineet Narayan 's case made the following
significant observation in paragraph 56 of the judgment: 24. Supplementing the judgment delivered by Hon'ble Justice G.S.
Singhvi (for himself and Hon'ble Justice Ganguly), Justice Ganguly
made the following observations in paragraphs 68, 69, 71, 75, 76, 77
and 79: 25. After making the aforesaid observations, Hon'ble Justice
Ganguly supplementing the judgment delivered by Hon'ble Justice
Singhvi recorded his views that Parliament should consider the
constitutional imperative of Article 14 enshrining the Rule of Law
wherein "due process of law" has been read into by introducing a
time limit in Section 19 of the P.C. Act, 1988 for its working in a
reasonable manner. He also expressed his opinion that the
Parliament should consider the following guidelines: 26. It is the aforesaid opinion expressed for introducing a time
limit in Section 19 of the P.C. Act, which has been referred to by the
learned Special Judge in his impugned orders so as to hold that non-
adhering to the time limit of three months would lead to a situation
in which there should be deemed sanction to the proposal for
prosecution and the prosecuting agency would proceed to file charge
sheet to commence proceeding within 15 days of the expiry of the
time limit. This aspect of the matter will be dealt with a little later. 27. Since much has been emphasized on the purported direction of
the learned Special Judge directing the I/O to file charge sheet and
taking cognizance of the matter in that manner, it may not be out of
place to refer to the term "taking cognizance" which has not been
defined in the Cr.P.C . In State of W.B. Vs. Mohd. Khalid reported in
(1995) 1 SCC 684, the Court referred to Section 190 Cr.P.C. and
observed thus: 28. In State of Karnataka Vs. Pastor P. Raju reported in (2006)
6 SCC 728, The Apex Court referred to the provisions of Chapter XIV
and Sections 190 and 196 (1-A) of the CrPC and observed thus: 29. The Apex Court has also referred to some of the precedents
including the judgment in Mohd. Khalid 's (supra) case and observed
thus: 30. In K. Kalimuthu Vs. State reported in (2005) 4 SCC 512, the
only question considered by the Apex Court was whether in the
absence of requisite sanction under Section 197 CrPC, the Special
Judge for CBI cases, Chennai did not have the jurisdiction to take
cognizance of the alleged offences. The High Court had taken the
view that Section 197 was not applicable to the appellant's case.
Affirming the view taken by the High Court, the Apex Court observed
thus: 31. The aforesaid observations has been made after taking note of
the Vineet Narayan (supra) case and the Office Order dated
12.5.2005 with the following observations: 49. CVC, after taking note of the judgment of the
 Punjab and Haryana High Court in Jagjit Singh v.
 State of Punjab (1996) Crl. Law Journal 2962, State
 of Bihar v. P. P. Sharma 1991 Supp. 1 SCC 222,
 Superintendent of Police (CBI) v. Deepak Chowdhary ,
 (1995) 6 SC 225, framed guidelines which were
 circulated vide office order No.31/5/05 dated
 12.5.2005. The relevant clauses of the guidelines are
 extracted below: 50. The aforementioned guidelines are in conformity
 with the law laid down by this Court that while
 considering the issue regarding grant or refusal of
 sanction, the only thing which the Competent
 Authority is required to see is whether the material
 placed by the complainant or the investigating
 agency prima facie discloses commission of an
 offence. The Competent Authority cannot undertake
 a detailed inquiry to decide whether or not the
 allegations made against the public servant are
 true." ( Emphasis supplied) 32. The decisions on which the learned counsel for the petitioners
have referred to and discussed above, are basically on the legal
technicalities and niceties of granting or refusing to grant
prosecution sanction. 33. It needs little emphasis that even one additional or different
fact may make a world of difference between the conclusions in two
cases and blindly placing reliance on a decision is never proper. It is
trite that while applying ratio, the Court may not pick out a word or
sentence from the judgment divorced from the context in which the
said question arose for consideration. (See: Zee Telefilms Ltd. &
Anr. Vs. Union of India & Anr. reported in (2005) 4 SCC 649). In
this regard, the following words of Lord Denning, quoted in Haryana
Financial Corporation & Anr. Vs. Jagdamba Oil Mills & Anr. reported ion (2002) 3 SCC 496, are also quite apt: 34. The petitioners have argued with the pre-supposition that the
offence alleged to have been committed by them either under PC Act or under the IPC , are relatable to their act in the discharge of official
duty. However, Section 19 of the PC Act provides that no Court shall
take cognizance of an offence punishable under Section 7 , 10 , 11 , 13 and 15 alleged to have been committed by a public servant
except with the previous sanction of the State Government, if the
public servant is employed in connection with the affairs of the
State. Same is the case with the public servant employed in
connection with the affairs of the Union. In that case, sanction of the
Central Government is required. 35. In some of the cases involved in this proceeding, it has been
argued that since the departmental proceedings have been initiated
(in some cases with conclusion with imposition of punishment), a
parallel criminal proceeding is not maintainable. In fact, in some of
this nature of cases, the Govt. has refused to grant sanction on the
basis of the opinion rendered by the judicial department and the
Advocate General of the State. As to what is the nature of offences
allegedly committed by the petitioners have been referred to above with the details against each one of the cases discussed below.
Referring to the nature of the offences, it was argued by Mr. Z.
Kamar, the learned PP, Assam that the particular act being not
related to the discharge of official duty, the sanction as
contemplated under Section 197 Cr.P.C. is not attracted. Referring
to the particular sections of the IPC under which some of the
petitioners have been charged, it was argued by him that the
offences under the said sections do not require any sanction. 36. In view of the above, I feel it appropriate to refer to some of
the decisions of the Apex Court on the requirement of prosecution
sanction. 37. in Matajog Dobey Vs. H.C. Bhari reported in AIR 1956 SC 44,
the Apex Court dealing with the principle underlying protection
under Section 197 Cr.P.C. vis-à-vis Article 14 of the Constitution of
India, observed that Article 14 does not render Section 197 ultra-vires
as the discrimination is based upon a rationale classification. It was
observed that the public servant have to be protected from
harassment in the discharge of official duty while ordinary citizens
not so engaged, do not require this safeguard. While holding so, the
Apex Court made the following significant observations : 38. In Shreekantiah Ramayya Munnipalli Vs. State of Bombay reported in AIR 1955 SC 287, the Apex Court observed thus :- 39. The question of previous sanction also arose in Amrik Singh
Vs. State of Pepsu reported in AIR 1955 SC 309, summarizing the
discussions on sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C., it was observed
thus :- 40. Referring to the aforesaid two decisions, the Apex Court in Matajog Dobey (Supra), made the following observations :- If in the exercise of the power of the
 performance of the official duty, improper or
 unlawful obstruction or resistance is encountered,
 there must be the right to use reasonable means to
 remove the obstruction or overcome the resistance.
 This accords with commonsense and does not seem
 contrary to any principle of law. The true position is neatly stated thus in
 Broom's Legal maxims, 10th Ed: at page 312; "It is a Criminal petitions Page 40 of 94 rule that when the law commands a thing to be done,
 it authorizes the performance of whatever may be
 necessary for executing its command." 41. Proceeding further with the matter, the Apex Court also
considered as to whether the question of sanction is to be considered
as soon as the complaint is lodged and on the allegations contained
therein. It was held that the question may arise at any stage of the
proceedings. Whether sanction is necessary or not may have to be
determined from stage to stage. The necessity may reveal itself in
the course of the progress of the case. 42. In Monohar Nath Kaul Vs. State of Jammu & Kashmir reported in AIR 1983 SC 610, discussing the meaning of the
expression "Acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his
official duty", the Apex Court held that where a public servant
commits the offence of cheating or abets another so to cheat the
offence committed by him is not one while he is acting or purporting
to act in the discharge of his official duty, as such offence has no
necessary connection between it and the performance of the duties
of a public servant, the official status furnishing only the action or
opportunity for the commission of the offence. 43. Section 197 Cr.P.C. has been quoted above. The section is
designed to facilitate and effective and unhampered performance of
official duty by public servants by making provisions for scrutiny into
allegations against them by superior authorities and prior sanction for
prosecution as a condition precedent to the cognizance of cases
against them by courts so that protection may be available from
Frivolous, Vexacitious or false prosecution for offences alleged to
have been committed by them while acting or purporting to act in
the discharge of their official duty. As pointed out by the Apex Court
in Srivastava Vs. Misra reported in AIR 1970 SC 1661, the umbrella
of protection is available in respect of offences alleged to have been
committed while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of
official duty. 44. The question of sanction also arose in the case of K. Satwant
Singh v. The State of Punjab , (1960) 2 SCR 89; (AIR 1960 SC 266)
and on that occasion before a Constitution Bench. Concerned with
the rehabilitation programme in Burma after the Japan's invasion
during the Second World War, certain works were undertaken - some
to be executed by the Army and others were entrusted to
contractors. The appellant was one of such contractors and claimed
payment for work done and on his request payments were made
through cheques which were encashed at Lahore. The Government of
Burma looked into the claims again on account of suspicion and
discovered that some of the claims were false and payment therefor
was not due. The contractor was therefore, charged for an offence
under s 420, I.P.C . and some of the officers connected with the
payments were charged under Sec. 420 / 109 , I.P.C. Imam, J. Spoke
for the Constitution Bench thus: 45. The Court held that the protection under s. 197 of the Code
was not available. It was held that whether a public servant commits
the offence of cheating or abets another so to cheat the offence
committed by him is not one while he is acting or purporting to act in
the discharge of his official duty, as such offence have no necessary
connection between them and the performance of the duties of a
public servant, the official status furnishing only the occasion or
opportunity for the commission of the offences. It was held that the
acts of cheating or abetment thereof has no reasonable connection
with the discharge of official duty. 46. In Baijnath Gupta & Ors. Vs. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1966) 1 SCR 210, the Chief Accountant-cum-Office Superintendent
in an Electric Supply Undertaking run by the Government of erstwhile
State of Madhya Bharat was prosecuted for offences punishable under Sections 477A and 409 , I.P.C. It was contended before the Court that
the offences had been committed in the discharge of official duty
and in the absence of prior sanction the conviction was not
maintainable. The majority quoted with approval the following
observations of Lord Simonds in Hori Ram Singh v. Emperor reported in AIR 1939 FC 43. The Court proceeded to say: 47. In B. Saha Vs. M.S. Kochar reported in AIR 1979 SC 1841, a
three Judge bench of the Apex Court dealing with the plea of
absence of prior sanction in respect of certain officers of the Customs
Department convicted for offences punishable under Section 120B , 166 and 409 IPC, made the following observation :- 48. A little reference to the facts involved in Amrik Singh case
(Supra) may not be out of place here. The accused was a Sub-
divisional Officer in the Public Works Department of Pepsu. It was a
part of his duties to disburse the wages to workmen employed in
certain works. The procedure usually followed was that he drew the
amount required from the Treasury and disbursed the amount to the
employees against their signatures or thumb impressions in the
Monthly Acquaintance Roll. Payment was shown to have been made
to one Parma for the month of April, 1951. The accused was
prosecuted on the allegation that Parma was non-existent and the
thumb impression in the Acquaintance Roll was of the accused
himself. He was charged with misappropriation of the wages.
Repelling the contention that conviction was un-sustainable for wants
of sanction under Section 197 of the Code in respect of the offences
under Section 409 and 465 of the IPC, the Apex Court held as
quoted above. 49. In Balbir Singh Vs. D. N. Kadian reported in AIR 1986 SC 345,
where it was alleged that the act of tempering with the search memo
was committed by the appellants when the same was in custody of
the Court. It was held that such an act cannot be deemed to be an
act purported to have been done by the appellants in discharge of
their official duties and therefore, the previous sanction of the Lt.
Governor as provided in Section 197 Cr.P.C. was not at all necessary
for initiating the proceeding against them. 50. In Mansukhlal Vithaldas Chauhan Vs. State of Gujarat reported in AIR 1977 SC 3400, dealing with the particular direction
of the High Court directing the sanctioning authority to grant
sanction, the Apex Court also dealt with the concept of "Application
of mind" by the sanctioning authority, emphasized on the need to
dealt with the facts of the case as also the material and evidence
collected during investigation. It was also emphasized that the Criminal petitions Page 45 of 94 sanctioning authority has to apply its own independent mind for the
generation of genuine suggestion whether the prosecution sanction
has to be granted or not. The mind of the sanctioning authority
should not be under pressure from any quarter nor should any
external force be acting upon it to take a decision one way or the
other. It is incumbent to show that the discretion to grant or not to
grant sanction has not been affected by any extraneous
consideration. 51. In Shabhoo Nath Misra Vs. State of U.P. reported in AIR
1997 SC 2102, when it was found that the offence alleged was that
of fabrication of records and misappropriation of public fund by
public servant, the Apex Court held that the same being not an
official duty, sanction for prosecution was not necessary. 52. In State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. M.P. Gupta reported in AIR
2004 SC 730, the Apex Court held that before Section 197 Cr.P.C. is
invoked, it must be shown that the official concerned was accused of
an offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or
purporting to act in the discharge of his official duties. It was held
that for the offence of forgery, no prosecution sanction is necessary.
In para 8 of the judgement, it has been observed thus :- 53. In Bakhshish Singh Brar Vs. Smt. Gurmej Kaur reported in
AIR 1988 SC 257, upholding the orders of the Trial Court, the Apex
Court noticing that cognizance was taken for offences under Section
302 , 323 , 149 IPC, held that the said orders to the effect that
necessity of sanction could be decided after gathering materials and
evidence. 54. In State of Kerala Vs. Padmanavan Nyer reported in AIR
1999 SC 2405, it was held that the prosecution sanction was not
necessary when the charge against the Govt. servant was under Criminal petitions Page 47 of 94 55. In Paul Varghese Vs. State of Kerala reported in AIR 2007 SC
2618 drawing the distinction between Section 19 of the PC Act and Section 197 of the Cr.P.C., the Apex Court observed thus :- 56. In Bholuram Vs. State of Punjab reported in (2008) 9 SCC
140, dealing with Section 319 Cr.P.C. and the applicability thereof,
the Apex Court held that when it appears during trial / recording of
evidence that such person has committed an offence which can be
tried together with the accused, the Magistrate than has power to
summon such person as accused in the case. Interpreting the
expression "Acting or purporting to act in discharge of his official
duty" in reference to the offences under section 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 IPC, the Apex Court held that such offences cannot be
regarded as committed by public servant while discharging or
purporting to act in discharge of his official duty. Referring to Section
197 Cr.P.C. and its stage of its adjudication, it has further been held
that the issue of sanction can be decided at any stage of the
proceeding. 57. Similar view has been expressed in Raghunath Anant Govilkar
Vs. State of Maharashtra reported in (2008) 11 SCC 289, when it
was found that the charge for offences was under Section 406 , 409 and 120 B IPC. The said view has been reiterated in State of UP Vs.
Paras Nath Singh reported in (2009) 6 SCC 372. 58. In the decision reported in 2004(1)GLT235 ( Gittesh Ranjan
Deb Vs. State of Assam ), following the decision in Sambhu Nath
Misra (Supra), this Court held that misappropriation of public fund
being not an official duty of the public servant, no sanction for
prosecution was required. 59. From the aforesaid discussion of the decisions of the Apex
Court, the following principles have emerged in the matter of
granting or refusing to grant sanction for prosecution of a public
servant. (1) Under Section 19 of the PC Act, previous
 sanction is necessary for prosecution in respect of
 the offences punishable under Section 7 , 10 , 11 , 13 and 15 of the said Act and alleged to have
 been committed by a public servant employed in
 connection with the affairs of the Union or the
 State and is not removable from his office save
 by or with the sanction of the Central or State
 Government, as the case may be. However, the
 same is circumscribed by the provisions contained
 in Section 19(3) and 19(4) of the Act. (2) In the matter of granting or refusing to grant
 sanction, the competent authority must apply its
 own independent mind and shall not be guided by
 any mechanical approach. At that stage, the only
 requirement is to derive prima-facie satisfaction
 on the basis of the evidence on record and
 without any indepth study of the same. (3) Prosecution sanction sought for by the
 investigating agency must be responded to at the
 earliest as emphasized in Vineet Narayan (Supra) without keeping the matter un-attended
 to for an indefinite period. (4) In the matter of granting sanction, it is to be
 seen as to whether the offence alleged is an act
 alleged to have been committed by the public
 servant while acting or purporting to act in the
 discharge of his official duty. (5) If there is no nexus between the Act constituting
 the offence and the Act in discharge of official
 duty, no prosecution sanction is required in such
 cases. If the alleged offence relates to Section
 120B , 406 , 409 , 420 , 471 IPC etc. then in that
 case , no prosecution sanction is required. 60. Keeping in mind the above principles, the decisions referred to
above dealing with the law relating to prosecution sanction, the
impugned orders passed by the learned Special Judge, submissions
advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and the materials
available on records, I now proceed to deal with each one of the
cases involved in this proceeding. For a ready reference, a gist of the
relevant particulars relating to the offences alleged against each one
of the petitioners and in reference to their criminal petitions
involved in this proceeding is indicated against their cases. 61. Crl. Petition No. 568/2012

Criminal Case Date of Allegation Date when Whether
No. and FIR Prosecution sanction
Section of Law sanction granted/denied
 sought for
ACB PS Case 3.10. Acquired properties 10.3.2005 Conveyed on
No. 13/01 U/S 2001 worth Rs. 25.8.2009 that
13(1)(e)/13(2) 1,07,40,702/- no prosecution PC Act disproportionate to sanction
Spl. Case No. known source of required. The offences alleged against the petitioner are under Section
13(1)(e) / 13(2) of the P.C. Act, 1988. He has already been charge
sheeted vide order dated 4.5.2012. As per the charge sheet, the
accused petitioner had acquired landed property in 9(nine) places in
Guwahati and house properties at Barpeta Town and at Mathuranagar
and Beltola of Guwahati during the period from 1992 to 2000. During
raid by Income Tax authorities on 20.7.2000, cash amount of Rs.
71,44,300/- was recovered from his house. During the enquiry, it was
ascertained that the value of the properties owned by the petitioner
is disproportionate to his known sources of income. During the
relevant period, he was the Member of the APSC, later on appointed
as Chairman. The net disproportionate assets as revealed during
investigation stood at Rs. 2,07,25,083.05. The petitioner did not
disclose the said property through any Govt. agency like Income Tax
Department, etc. 62. The Govt. in the Political (Vigilance Cells Deptt) vide its letter
dated 25.8.09 issued under the signature of the Principal Secretary
(Home and Political Department) and addressed to the SP, Vigilance
and Anti-Corruption, Assam, conveyed that no prosecution sanction
was required under Section 19(1) of the PC Act. The letter also
refers to the decision reported in AIR 1995 SC 1124 ( Habibulla Khan
Vs. State of Orissa ), in which the Apex Court has held thus :- Similarly, a Constitution Bench in Veeraswami
 v. Union of India [(1991) 3 SCC 655], while
 construing the provisions of the same Section 6 of
 the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 held that no
 sanction under Section 6 of that Act was necessary
 for prosecution of the appellant in that case since he
 had retired from service on attaining the age of
 superannuation and was not a public servant on the
 date of filing the charge sheet. " 63. The offences alleged to have been committed by the
 petitioner was during his incumbency as Member / Chairman, APSC
 during the period from 1991 to 2000. He is no longer a public servant
 having demitted the office of the Chairman, APSC, way back in 2000. In view of the law laid down by the Apex Court discussed above,
 including the one referred to in the aforementioned communication,
 no prosecution sanction is required in respect of the offence alleged
 to have been committed by the petitioner. Accordingly, irrespective
 of the impugned order passed by the learned Special Judge, the
 proceeding against him shall continue till its logical conclusion in
 accordance with law. Accordingly, the prayer for quashing the
 proceeding against the petitioner, now pending in the Court of the
 learned Special Judge, Assam, cannot be granted and accordingly the
 petition stands dismissed and consequently, the interim order also
 stands vacated. 64. CRP 208/2012, 530/2012, 274/12, 176/12, 199/12, 708/12,
 224/12, 201/12, 216/12, 234/12, 242/12, 218/12, 212/12,
 232/12, 210/12, 217/12 and 211/2012. These cases relate to the alleged Green House Scam
 defrauding poor farmers by placing supply orders with the particular
 firms and receiving sub-standard materials, thereby defrauding the
 Govt. Exchequer to the tune of crores of rupees. In the instant case,
 as per the FIR lodged on 2.9.2002, few Guwahati based suppliers /
 firms have swindled the Govt. by several crores of rupees by
 supplying sub-standard materials on exorbitant price, to be utilized
 in the implementation of low cost Green House-cum-Rain Shelter Criminal petitions Page 54 of 94 Schemes launched by the DRDAs of 21 districts of Assam in the
year 1999. Application for sanction against the officers involved
which included the petitioners, was sought for on 23.2.2005.
However, after more than 3½ years, the Govt. of Assam vide its
letter dated 12.12.2008 declined to grant prosecution sanction,
although the departmental proceedings against them had been
initiated. The said letter further reveals that for 9(nine) other
officers who had already retired from service on attaining the age of
superannuation, no action had been taken or even proposed for
departmental proceeding on the ground of their retirement from
service. The letter has further revealed that upon consultation with
the Judicial Department as well as the Advocate general, Assam, a
decision had been arrived at not to proceed with the remaining
officers including the petitioners either judicially or criminally.
However, the departmental proceeding against them was to
continue. 65. On a bare perusal of the letter, it is revealed that there was
total non-application of mind in refusing to proceed against the
officers. Although the letter does not specifically refer to prosecution
sanction but the observation that the Govt. was not inclined to
proceed against the officers either judicially or criminally would
imply that sanction for prosecution was declined. Such refusal to
grant sanction is solely on the basis of the purported consultation
with the Judicial Department as well as the learned Advocate
General, Assam. 66. The learned Special Judge while appreciating the decision
contained in the said letter, noticed that the matter was kept
pending for more than 3 ½ years at the stage of consideration for
prosecution sanction and eventually the Govt. declined to grant the
same as conveyed vide its aforesaid letter dated 12.12.2008. As
recorded in the impugned order of the learned Special Judge,
sanction for prosecution was sought for in respect of 61 public
servants. However, by the aforesaid letter dated 12.12.2008, the
Govt. while refusing to grant prosecution sanction in respect of 26 Criminal petitions Page 55 of 94 officers and for that matter while exonerating them from the
criminal charge, kept the matter pending for the remaining 35 public
servants. 67. The learned Special Judge in his detailed order dated 9.4.2012
declined to accept the final report dated 30.3.2012 filed by the
Investigating Officer under Section 169 / 173 Cr.P.C. in respect of
the 26 Officers including the petitioners in reference to Section 190 Cr.P.C. and Section 19 of the P.C. Act and Section 197 Cr.P.C.
While doing so, the learned Special Judge has referred to the
decision of the Apex Court reported in AIR 1989 SC 885 ( India Carat
Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Karnataka and others ) in which it was held
that on receipt of a police report under Section 173 Cr.P.C., a
Magistrate is entitled to take cognizance of an offence under Section
190(1)(b) of the Cr.P.C. even if the police report is to the effect
that no case is made out against the accused persons. The learned
Special Judge has also referred to the decision reported in AIR 2007
SC 1274 ( Prakash Singh Badal Vs. State of Punjab ), in which it was
held that there cannot be any universal rule to determine whether
there is a reasonable connection between the act done and the
official duty, nor it is possible to lay down any such rule. It was
further held that the concept of section 197 does not immediately
get attracted on institution of the complaint case and that the
offence of cheating under Section 420 IPC and for that matter
offences relatable to Sections 467 , 468 , 471 and 120B IPC can by no
stretch of imagination, by their very nature be regarded as having
been committed by any public servant while acting or purporting to
act in discharge of official duty. In such cases, official status only
provides an opportunity for commission of the offence. 68. The learned Special Judge on perusal of the FIR, charge sheet,
statement of witnesses, case diary, etc. found that the 26 officers
including the petitioners while were posted in the districts concerned
were responsible in placing supply orders violating the tender rules.
Not only that, the entire payment was made under their control and
supervision, which resulted in loss to the State Exchequers. It was Criminal petitions Page 56 of 94 also found that while implementing the particular schemes of
constructing the Green House-cum-Rain Shelter in the 22 districts of
Assam, the said officers of the Govt. machineries had taken recourse
to forging the relevant documents for the purpose of cheating,
fraudulent withdrawal of Govt. fund after making criminal conspiracy
among themselves. Accordingly, cognizance has been taken under Section 120B / 468 / 471 / 409 IPC against them. As referred to above , in
some of the cases the petitioners have challenged the charge sheet
itself without waiting for framing of charges. 69. As discussed above, in various decisions of the Apex Court, it
has been held that for the alleged offences triable under the
aforesaid sections of IPC , there is no requirement of prosecution
sanction. The offences alleged to have been committed by the
officers cannot be said to be in discharge of their official duty while
acting or purporting to act in the discharge of such official duty. 70. Above apart, in the decision conveyed vide letter dated
12.12.2008, there is absolutely no reflection of any independent
application of mind and exercising of the sound discretion taking note
of the evidence on record and the facts and circumstances involved
in the case. 71. Referring to the departmental proceedings that were initiated
against the petitioners, it is the plea of the petitioners that the same
having been dropped against them in acceptance of their written
statement, the criminal proceeding cannot be launched against
them. As discussed above, the principles underlying departmental
proceeding and criminal proceeding are quite distinct and different.
The very fact that a decision was arrived at to proceed
departmentally against the petitioners would rather lend support
towards proceeding against the petitioners. 72. From the records produced by the learned counsel assisting
the learned Sr. AAG, Assam, it appears that a departmental enquiry
was conducted in respect of the anomalies in the implementation of Criminal petitions Page 57 of 94 the aforesaid scheme. As per the report of the Inquiry Officer dated
28.9.2001, inter alia the following violation of the Govt. of India's
instruction and omissions were noticed

 "2. The following violations of the Govt. of India's
 instructions and omissions are noticed in the Govt.
 letter no. RDD.170/98/31 dated 24.3.99 :- a) No cost norms were mentioned. (b) No mechanism for implementation and
 practical aspects for implementation were
 mentioned. (c) No approval of the State Level Committee for
 EAS etc. were taken. (d) ............ (e) The ration of wages to material of EAS, JRY is
 violated by the guidelines. (f) .......... (g) .......... 3. M/s. Nilachal Enterprise appears to have
 secured possession of the Govt. letter
 RDD.170/98/31 dated 24.3.99 and
 RRD.170/98/31 dated 24.3.99 and their
 representative delivered the letter in number
 of DRDAs. The letter was not issued formally
 through the Issue Branch of Assam Secretariat. 4. Some DRDAs called for short tender/quotation
 whereas some other directly accepted the
 rates approved by other DRDAs and in some
 cases even the rates given by Supplier M/s. Nilachal Enterprise was directly accepted. The
 PD, DRDAs where tendering was done accepted
 the lowest rate without comparing with the
 rate given in the model estimate or the market
 verification of the rates. No publicity was
 given to NIT/NIQ issued by the DRDAs and
 proper procedure was not followed. The PDs
 vio9lated the financial rules and caused huge
 loss to the state exchequer/DRDAs by
 accepting a rate, which was much higher than
 market rate. The whole tendering procedure
 was a fraud in the name of tendering. 5. .............. 6. .............. 7. UV film supplied by M/s. Nilachal Enterprise
 did not conform to quality standards given in
 the Govt. guidelines. 8. The omission on the part of P & RD
 department to recommend specifically the UV
 film (200 micron) produced by Indian
 Petrochemicals Limited left lot of scope for
 supply of sub-standard materials. 9. ................ 10. All the DRDAs put together made an excess
 expenditure of around Rs. 3.75 crores in
 purchase of UV films. The price paid by DRDAs
 was more than 100% than the reasonable
 price. All the PD, DRDAs directly and DC &
 Chairman, DRDAs indirectly are responsible for
 causing this loss. 11. It was a major omission on the part of the
 department or the Director, P & RD not to fix
 the price of UV film centrally or procure the
 material centrally from the authorized dealer. 12. ............... 13. ................... 14. The statement - IV clearly brings out the fact
 that procurement of materials and payments
 to M/s. Nilachal Enterprise was done at a very
 prompt speed, which is unusual in DRDAs or
 Govt. departments. It may not be coincidence
 that similar pattern was observed in all
 DRDAs. 15. ............. 16. ........... 17. ........... 18. ........... 19. ............ 20. There was no monitoring and supervision of
 the implementation of the Green house scheme
 by the Director, P & RD department. 21. The P & RD department did not take the
 matter seriously when it was brought to their
 notice by AAU and IPC L in June 1999 that
 DRDAs are procuring sub-standard plastic
 films. 22. ............ 23. ........... 24. ............ 25. .............. 26. ............ 27. The Commissioner & Secretary, P & RD and
 Deputy Secretary, P & RD during the relevant
 period will have to bear their share of
 responsibilities for the omissions on their
 part. 28. .................. 29. Recommendation on actions to be taken is not
 within the purview of the Inquiry Officer. However, it is obvious that the abnormal
 profit earned by the supplier especially M/s. Nilachal Enterprise, Nalinibala Devi Path,
 Guwahati - 781 005 has not been appropriated
 by themselves only. There is every likelihood
 of there being other beneficiaries of this
 amount. Apart from the other action that the
 department may consider, an inquiry by
 vigilance wing under Political department is
 recommended to go in to this aspect. 30. ..............." 73. Inspite of the aforesaid revelations made in the enquiry report
submitted by the Inquiry Officer appointed by the Govt. itself, the
prosecution sanction was not accorded. Even on perusal of the
purported opinion of the Judicial Department as well as the one
rendered by the learned AG, Assam, it is found that while the
Judicial Department without expressing any opinion in the matter
simply referred the same to the learned AG, Assam, the learned
AG, Assam while expressing serious concern in the manner and
method in which the scheme was dealt with, lastly expressed his
opinion not to proceed against the Officers. As discussed above in
reference to the various case laws, apart from the fact that there
was no independent application of mind on the part of the
sanctioning authority and it simply relied upon the opinion
rendered by another authority, it was also not necessary to make
an in depth study of the materials on record. What was required
was to find out as to whether there was any prima facie material
to proceed against the officers. If the aforesaid reflection made in the enquiry report,
cannot constitute the prima facie satisfaction towards granting Criminal petitions Page 60 of 94 sanction, I am afraid, nothing can constitute opinion to grant
prosecution sanction. The provision for prosecution sanction is only
to protect the public servant from vexatious and frivolous proceeding
and not to shield them from a proceeding arising out of dereliction
of duty. 74. For all the aforesaid reasons and also for the reasons stated
below against Crl. Pet. No. 240/2012, I am not inclined to accept
the criminal petitions for quashing of the proceeding against the
petitioners and accordingly, they are dismissed. Stay orders stand
vacated. 75. In Crl. Pet. No. 274/2012 and Crl. Pet. No. 530/2012
challenge is the charge sheet itself dated 30.3.2012. Be it stated
here that the petitioner involved in Crl. Pet. No. 274 has also filed
Crl. Pet. No. 176/2012 challenging the order dated 6.3.2012 passed
by the learned Special Judge directing the S.P. Chief Minister's
Vigilance Cell to submit charge sheet against the public servants
including the petitioner. In Crl. Pet. No. 199/2012, the petitioner
being not a public servant, no prosecution sanction is required. In this case, the petitioner is the proprietor of M/S Nilachal
Enterprise and stated to be involved in the Green House Scam case.
The learned Special Judge by his order dated 12.4.2012 has taken
cognizance against the accused persons named in the order including
the petitioner. Being satisfied that there are incrementing materials Criminal petitions Page 61 of 94 against the accused petitioner on the basis of the statement of the
witnesses, Case Diary and other relevant documents, a prima facie
satisfaction has been recorded that the petitioner conspired with
other accused persons towards defrauding Government by supplying
inferior and substandard materials (UV Films). Cognizance has been
taken to proceed against him under Section 120(B) / 420 IPC. 77. Apart from the reasons recorded above, the petitioner also
being not a Government servant, no prosecution sanction is required.
Accordingly, this petition is also dismissed with the vacation of the
interim order. So far as the charge under Section 13(2) of the P.C. Act is
concerned, the learned Special Judge in his order dated 6.3.2012 has
held that the prosecution sanction having not been accorded
although sought for on 4.6.2010, the same shall be deemed to have
been granted on expiry of three months from the date of seeking
prosecution sanction. In this connection, he has referred to the
decision in Subramanian Swamy (supra). Learned counsel for the
petitioner argued that deemed sanction as mentioned in paragraph-
81 of the supplementing judgment of one of the Hon'ble Judges (A.K.
Ganguly, J) is not in the realm of direction, but are guidelines for
consideration of the Parliament. There is no gain saying that in Vineet Narain (supra) case referred to in Subramanian Swamy (supra), there was specific direction to adhere to the time lime of
three months for granting of sanction for prosecution with the
additional time limit of one month where consultation is required
with the Attorney General or any Law Officer in his office. This Criminal petitions Page 62 of 94 position cannot be frustrated by shielding the accused by not
granting prosecution sanction indefinitely. 79. Although, it was argued that neither in Vineet Narain nor in Subramanian Swamy (supra), the consequence of non-adherence to
the time limit of three months having not been specified, there
cannot be any deemed sanction, but the same will have to be
considered in the light of the observations made in both the cases,
which have been exclusively referred to above . The said observations
are of significant importance. 80. If the conduct of a public servant amounts to an offence, it
must be promptly investigated and the offender against whom a
prima facie case is made out should be prosecuted expeditiously so
that the majesty of law is upheld and the rule of law vindicated. It is
the duty of the judiciary to enforce the rule of law and, therefore, to
guard against erosion of the rule of law. The adverse impact of lack
of probity in public life leading to a high degree of corruption is
manifold. It is not for nothing, the Apex Court in Vineet Narain (supra) fixed the time of three months for grant of prosecution
sanction with the clear stipulation that the said time limit must be
strictly adhered to. Following the said judgment and some other
judgments, certain guidelines have also been issued by the
Government of India, which have been held to be in conformity with
the law laid down by the Apex Court. As recorded in paragraph 50 of
the judgment in Subramanian Swamy (supra) while considering the
issue regarding grant or refusal of sanction, the only thing which the
Competent Authority is required to see is whether the material
placed by the complainant or the investigating agency prima facie
discloses commission of an offence. The Competent Authority cannot
undertake a detailed inquiry to decide whether or not the allegations
made against the public servant are true. 81. As noted above, in the instant case, apart from the fact that
there has been gross and unexplained delay on the part of the
sanctioning authority, there is also no independent application of Criminal petitions Page 63 of 94 mind towards arriving at a prima facie satisfaction, but in some of
the cases decision not to proceed judicially or criminally has been
arrived at solely on the basis of the opinion of the learned Advocate
General, Assam. 82. In paragraph-56 of the judgment in Subramanian Swamy (supra), the Apex Court has reiterated that every competent
authority shall take appropriate action in the matter of sanction for
prosecution strictly in accordance with the direction contained in Vineet Narain (supra). It is in this context, supplementing the
judgment, one of the Hon'ble Judges (A.K. Ganguly, J) issued
direction that the Parliament should consider the Constitutional
imperative of Article 14 enshrining the rule of law wherein 'due
process of law' has been read into by introducing a time limit in Section 19 of the P.C. Act 1988 for its working in a reasonable
manner. Here lies the importance of judicial legislation upon failure
on the part of the legislature in not laying down any time limit for
prosecution sanction under Section 19 of the P.C. Act and on the face
of inordinate delay on the part of the executive in the matter of
prosecution sanction. The Apex Court had no other option than to
judicially legislate towards stipulating time limit for prosecutions
sanction. The direction contained in paragraph-81 of Subramanian
Swamy's judgment will have to be considered in that context. 83. In Dayaram Vs. Sudhir Batham reported in (2012) 1 SCC 333,
the Apex Court referring to the decision in Vineet Narain and the
guidelines and directions issued therein has held that issuance of
such guidelines and directions is a well settled practice which has
taken firm roots in our constitutional jurisprudence and that such
exercise was essential to fill the void in the absence of suitable
legislation to cover the field. The particular observations made in
paragraphs-52 and 53 of Vineet Narain (supra) has been quoted in the
said judgment , which is again reproduced below: 84. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar Vs. Rajesh Ranjan reported in
(2005) 3 SCC 284, the Apex Court held that: 85. In Supreme Court Bar Association Vs. Union of India reported in
(1998) 4 SCC 409, a Constitution Bench of the Apex Court held thus: 86. As noted in Dayaram (supra), Benjamin Cardozo in his
inimitable style said that the power to declare the law carries with it Criminal petitions Page 65 of 94 the power and within limits the duty to make law when none exists
(nature of the Judicial Process, p. 124). Directions issued in the
exercise of judicial power can fashion modalities out of existing
executive apparatus, to ensure that eligible citizens entitled to
affirmative action alone derive benefits of such affirmative action.
The directions issued in Madhuri Patil reported (1994) 6 SCC 241
are intrinsic to the fulfillment of fundamental rights of backward
classes of citizens and are also intended to preclude denial of
fundamental rights to such persons who are truly entitled to
affirmative action benefits. 87. It is well known that a deeming provision is a legal fiction and
an admission of the non-existence of the fact deemed. Therefore,
while interpreting a provision creating a legal fiction, the court has
to ascertain the purpose for which the fiction is created. When a
statute enacts that something shall be deemed to have been done,
which in fact and truth was not done, the court is entitled and bound
to ascertain for what purposes and between what persons the
statutory fiction is to be resorted to. 86. It is true that Section 19 of the P.C. Act has not laid down any
time limit for prosecution sanction. There is also no deeming clause.
However, as noted above in absence of any statutory provision, the
provision made by the Apex Court in its decisions referred to above will have to be strictly adhered to. Non-adherence of the time limit
coupled with the duty of the court to uphold Rule of Law may require
the court to step in to remove the injustice resulted due to the
inaction on the part of the legislature and where there is inaction
even by the executive, for whatever reason, the judiciary must
step in, in exercise of its constitutional obligation under the
aforesaid provisions to provide a solution till such time as the
legislature acts to perform its role by enacting proper legislature
to cover the field. 89. While it is true that the previous sanction for taking
cognizance of an offence prescribed under Section 10 , 11 , 13 and 15 Criminal petitions Page 66 of 94 of the P.C. Act alleged to have been committed by public servant has
been provided for, for the purpose of protection of such public
servants from vexatious and frivolous proceeding, but the same
cannot be made use of as a shield to protect the public servants
against whom a prima facie offence is established. In the instant
proceeding we have seen that prosecution sanction has not been
accorded even for long 11 years in some cases. While materials
available on record disclose a prima facie case for prosecution,
competent authority cannot sit over the matter indefinitely and must
adhere to the time limit fixed in Vineet Narain (supra) and
reiterated in Subramanian Swamy (supra). The criminal petition is dismissed. Stay order stands vacated. In this case, the petitioner is aggrieved by the summons issued
to him from the Court of the learned Special Judge, Assam, Guwahati
requiring him to answer the charge framed under Sections
406 / 409 / 420 / 34 IPC. The allegation against the petitioner relates to
misappropriation of huge Government money in respect of
implementation of scheme under NREGA. Misappropriation of
Government money cannot be said to be in discharge of official duty
as contemplated under Section 197 Cr.P.C. and thus there is no
requirement of obtaining sanction for prosecution. This principle
relating to prosecution sanction has been discussed above. In that
view of the matter, the petition is dismissed and the interim order
passed earlier stands vacated. 91. Crl. Pet. No. 231/2012, Crl. Pet. No. 334/2012 , Crl. Pet.
 No. 261/2012 , Crl. Pet. No. 650/2012, Crl. Pet. No. 400/2012,
 Crl. Pet. No. 673/2012, Crl. Pet. No. 329/2012, Crl. Pet. No. 399/2012 Crl. Criminal Case No. and Date of FIR Allegation Date when Whether
Pet Section of Law Prosecution sanction
No. sanction granted/denie
 sought for d
231/12 Vig. P.S. Case No. 3/97 U/S 17.11.1997 Misappropria - Charge framed
 120(B)/116/409/420 IPC tion of huge on 20.4.12
 money under under Sec. In these cases, the petitioners are aggrieved by the orders of
 the learned Special Judge, Assam, by which, cognizance has been
 taken against some of the accused persons under Sections
 120(B) / 116 / 409 / 420 IPC read with Section 13 (2) of the P.C. Act and
 in some others under Section 120(B) / 116 / 409 / 420 IPC. From the
 materials on record, it has been found that the alleged offence was
 committed not in discharge of official duty, but in dereliction of the
 same. As noted above, the charge against the officers including the
 petitioners is that of misappropriation of huge Government money
 under the scheme called Operation Black Board (OBB). The scheme
 was for substantial improvement of facilities in primary education. As
 per the impugned order, the prosecution sanction having not been
 accorded within the stipulated period of time, the same should be
 deemed to have been granted in terms of Vineet Narain and
 Subramanian Swamy (supra). 92. As noted above, the provision of prosecution sanction is to
ensure that the public servant is not put to unnecessary harassment
but certainly not to shield him from criminal proceeding in respect of
indulge in corruption utilizing the very service which he is in as a tool
for the same. This aspect of the matter has been discussed above. 93. For the reasons stated therein. I do not find any infirmity in
taking cognizance of the offence allegedly committed by the
petitioners. Moreover, the question of sanction may be raised on or
determine during the course of the proceeding depending upon the
stage of the same and thus said proceeding need not be stalled at
this stage. Consequently, the criminal petitions pertaining to OBB are
dismissed with the vacation of the stay order. The challenge in this petition is the order dated 31/3/2012
and also the proceeding that has been initiated against the petitioner
by the learned Special Judge, Assam. By the said order, direction has
been issued for issuance of summons to the 4 accused persons named
in the order including the petitioner. In the case, charge has been
submitted under Section 120(B) / 420 / 468 / 471(A) IPC read with Section 13(2)(d) of the P.C. Act, 1988. As reflected in the order, the
petitioner was arrested during investigation. Due to non-appearance
of the petitioner in response to the summons issued, learned Special
Judge has issued notice to the bailor on 5.4.2012 directing production
of the petitioner. 95. According to the petitioner, the said two orders are not
sustainable in law. Urging various grounds on fact leading to filing of
the criminal petition, it is the case of the petitioner that he is not
responsible for the offence alleged against him. Referring to the
departmental proceeding that was initiated against him, the
petitioner has contended that the said proceeding having come to an
end coupled with the fact that the petitioner has already retired
from service on attaining the age of superannuation with effect
from 28.2.2009, the criminal proceeding is not maintainable. It will
be pertinent to mention here that pursuant to the departmental
proceeding, the petitioner has been imposed with the penalty of
recovery of the misappropriated Government money to the tune of
Rs. 4,98,000/-. As per the certificate dated 30.4.2012 annexed to the
petition, already the amount has been recovered from the monthly
salary bills of the petitioner and thereafter from the retirement
benefit. 96. In Rumi Dhar Vs. State of West Bengal reported in (2009) 6
SCC 364, although the accused had paid the entire due amount as
per the settlement with the bank in the matter of recovery before
the Debt Recovery Tribunal, the accused was being proceeded with
for the commission of the offences under Section
120B / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 IPC along with bank officers who had been
prosecuted under Section 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of the PC Act . The
Court refused to quash the charge against the accused by holding
that the Court cannot quash a case involving a crime against society
when the prima facie case has been made out against the accused for
framing the charge. 97. Although the accused had paid the entire due amount as per
the settlement with the bank in the matter of recovery before the
Debts Recovery Tribunal, the accused was being proceeded with for
commission of offences under Section 120-B / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 of the
IPC along with the bank officers who were being prosecuted under Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act . The
Court refused to quash the charge against the accused by holding Criminal petitions Page 70 of 94 that the Court would not quash a case involving a crime against the
society when a prima facie case has been made out against the
accused for framing the charge. Ashok Sadarangani Vs. Union of
India reported in (2012) 11 SCC 321 was again a case where the
accused persons were charged of having committed offences under Sections 120-B , 465 , 467 , 468 and 471 , IPC and the allegations were
that the accused secured the credit facilities by submitting forged
property documents as collaterals and utilized such facilities in a
dishonest and fraudulent manner by opening letters of credit in
respect of foreign supplies of goods, without actually bringing any
goods but inducing the bank to negotiate the letters of credit in
favour of foreign suppliers and also by misusing the cash-credit
facility. The decision in Ashok Sadarangani (Supra) supports the
view that the criminal matters involving overtures of a civil dispute
stand on a different footing. 98. Above apart, as discussed above, merely because a
departmental proceeding was initiated against the petitioner, he
cannot question the criminal proceeding on that ground. The
principles underlying both the proceedings are quite distinct and
different. In that view of the matter, I do not find any merit in the
petition and accordingly it is dismissed with the vacation of the
interim order. The challenge in this petition is the charge sheet itself and
also the order dated 4.6.2012 for appearance and execution of P&A Criminal petitions Page 71 of 94 due to non-appearance. According to the petitioner, the I.O. did not
investigate the case properly and also did not take into consideration
that the petitioner had already deposited the entire amount
purportedly misappropriated by him. After defalcating Govt. money,
the petitioner cannot take the plea that since the amount had
already been refunded, no proceeding can be initiated against him. If
a prima facie case has been found against him the proceeding should
be allowed to come to its logical conclusion. 100. For the reasons stated above, this Criminal petition is
dismissed with vacation of the interim order. 101. Crl. Pet. No. 269/2012, Crl. Pet. No. 245/2012
Crl. Pet Criminal Case Date of Allegation Date when Whether
No. No. and Section FIR Prosecutio sanction
 of Law n sanction granted/denie
 sought for d
269/12 Vig. P.S. Case 8.7.2002 Supply of 25/11/200 According to
 No. 1/02 U/s. substandard 2 the petitioner
 120B/420 IPC . materials flouting in Crl. Pet. No.
 Spl. Case No. the guidelines in 269/12, not
 24/12 collaboration with granted but as
 DRDA officials and per the
 thereby causing impugned
 huge loss to the order of the ld. In these cases, the petitioners are aggrieved by order dated
9.4.2012, by which, the learned Special Judge, Assam has recorded
that Government has accorded sanction to prosecute the two accused
petitioners involved in Crl. Pet. No. 269/2012. By the said order, it
has also been held that there are materials against both the
petitioners under Sections 420 / 120(B) IPC. Accordingly cognizance of
the offence alleged against them has been taken with the issuance of
summons. According to the petitioners, no prosecution sanction
having been accorded, the learned Special Judge, Assam could not
have held in the order dated 9.4.2012 that such prosecution sanction
has already been accorded. 102. As stated in the petition, on conclusion of the investigation,
prosecution sanction was sought for way back in 2002 (25.11.2002),
but the authority sat over the matter for all these years. Prosecution
sanction was again sought for vide letter dated 1.2.2010 in response
to which the Government of Assam in the Political (Vigilance Cell)
Department vide its letter dated 4.5.2010 informed the Investigating
agency that steps had been taken by the concerned department for
prosecution sanction against the petitioners. Although, it is the stand
of the petitioners that no such prosecution sanction has been
accorded, but as has been held in the impugned order, the
Government has already accorded prosecution sanction against the
petitioner. In this connection, the learned Special Judge has referred
to the Government of Assam's letter No. PLA(V)154/2002/76 dated
5.4.2010, by which, the Government decision not to proceed
judicially and criminally against the petitioner in Crl. Pet. No.
245/2012, while according sanction to prosecute the petitioners had
been conveyed. 103. During the course of hearing of the instant batch of petitions,
it was never argued either by the learned P.P., Assam or the learned
Sr. Additional Advocate General, Assam that the Government has not
accorded prosecution sanction against the petitioners. Moreover, the
delay in according sanction is unexplained and inordinate. There is no
explanation as to why the stipulation of 3/4 months as laid down in Vineet Narain (supra) could not be followed in the case. The offence
alleged against the petitioners is very serious in nature involving huge
loss to Government exchequer. 104. For all the aforesaid reason, I do not find any merit in the
petition and accordingly stands dismissed with the vacation of the
interim order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order dated
31.3.2012, by which, cognizance under Section 409 / 468 / 471 / 120(B) IPC read with Section 13 (2) of the P.C. Act has been taken against
the petitioners and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with
vacation of the interim order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 409 / 511 / 120(B) IPC read with Section 13
(2) of the P.C. Act, has been taken against the petitioners and
accordingly the petition stands dismissed with vacation of the interim
order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 7 of the P.C. Act, has been taken against
the petitioner and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with
vacation of the interim order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 120B / 116 / 409 IPC read with Section
13(1)(c) and 13 (2) of the P.C. Act, has been taken against the
petitioners and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with
vacation of the interim order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 420 / 468 / 471(A) / 120(B) IPC read with Section 13(2) of the P.C. Act has been taken against the petitioners
and also for the reasons stated in Crl. Pet. 568/12 above and Criminal petitions Page 75 of 94 accordingly the petition stands dismissed with vacation of the interim
order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 13(1)(e) / 13(2) of the P.C. Act has been
taken against the petitioners and accordingly the petition stands
dismissed with vacation of the interim order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 120(B) / 468 / 471 / 409 IPC read with Section
13(1)(c) / 13(2) of the P.C. Act has been taken against the petitioners
and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with vacation of the
interim order. 112. Crl. Pet. Nos. 533/2012, 494/2012 & 523/2012
Crl. Pet Criminal Case Date of FIR Allegation Date when Whether
No. No. and Section Prosecution sanction
 of Law sanction granted/ Criminal petitions Page 76 of 94 sought for denied
533/12 ACB PS Case No. 21.3.2001 Misappropriation of 9.1.2003 Not granted
 3/2001, U/s. huge amount by
 409, 468, 471, preparing falls bills
 477A, 420,120B / diverting funds IPC r/w. Section from one scheme
 13(1)(c)(d) and to another. 13(2)of PC Act . Spl. Case No.
 13/12. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 409 / 468 / 471 / 420 / 477(A) / 120(B) IPC read
with Section 13(1)(c)(d) / 13(2) of the P.C. Act has been taken against
the petitioners and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with
vacation of the interim order. 113. Coupled with the above, the records (File No. CON.6/2006)
contains the letter dated 12.3.2013 addressed to Mr. Z. Kamar,
leaned P.P. Assam by the Government of Assam in the PWD
(Confidential Cell) under the signature of the Deputy Secretary
conveying that in the matter of prosecution sanction, the File No.
Con.6/2006 was processed and the Government in the PWD accorded
prosecution sanction vide No. Con.6/2006/18 dated 14.7.2010 in
response to the Home & Political Department letter No.
PLA(V)108/99/413 dated 17.3.2010. The letter further conveys that
the department was again requested to issue prosecution sanction
order in respect of the officers including the petitioners in the form
of order duly signed and sealed by the competent authority vide
letter dated 23.7.2010. Accordingly after completing necessary
formalities, prosecution sanction has been accorded vide letter No.
Con.6/06/25 dated 28.8.2012. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 471(A) / 409 IPC read with Section
13(1)(c) / 13(2) of the P.C. Act has been taken against the petitioners
and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with vacation of the
interim order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 409 / 468 / 471 / 120(B) IPC read with Section
13(2) of the P.C. Act has been taken against the petitioners and
accordingly the petition stands dismissed with vacation of the interim
order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 7 of the P.C. Act has been taken against
the petitioners and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with
vacation of the interim order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 109 / 468 / 471 / 420 / 120(B) IPC read with Section 13(1)(c)(d) (ii) / 13(2) of the P.C. Act has been taken against
the petitioners and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with
vacation of the interim order. In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 120(B) / 406 / 409 / 420 / 468 IPC read with Section 13(2) of the P.C. Act has been taken against the petitioners
and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with vacation of the
interim order. It is also a case of deemed sanction on expiry of three months
from the date of seeking prosecution sanction. By the impugned
order dated 6.3.2012, it has been held that although there are
incrementing materials against the petitioner to proceed under Section 13(1)(c)(d)(ii) / 13(2) of the P.C. Act, but the Government for
the reasons best known to it has not dealt with the matter relates to
sanction, although was sought for on 31.5.2010. By the said impugned
order, direction has been issued to the I/O to proceed with the
matter towards filing of charge sheet etc. without waiting for the
sanction. For the reasons stated above, the criminal petition also
stands dismissed with vacation of the interim order. Crl. Pet Criminal Case No. Date of FIR Allegation Date when Whether
No and Section of Law Prosecutio sanction
 n sanction granted/
 sought for denied
384/12 Mangaldoi P. S. 21 .7.1995 Taking 6.10.199 Not granted
 Case No. 109/95 bribe/demand 5
 U/S 7 of PC Act , of illegal
 1988 gratification

 In view of the above discussions and for the reasons stated
above, I do not find any infirmity in the impugned order, by which,
cognizance under Section 7 of the P.C. Act has been taken against Criminal petitions Page 80 of 94 the petitioners and accordingly the petition stands dismissed with
vacation of the interim order. Although prosecution sanction was sought for way back in 1995
(6.10.1995), but no action has been taken for the last more than 16
years. As per the FIR, there was demand for illegal gratification for
issuance of land valuation certificate. In this case, sanction for prosecution was granted on
17.7.2009, making a grievance against which, the petitioner had
approached this Court by filing Crl. Pet. No. 99/2012 under Section
482 Cr.P.C. By the said petition, the petitioner challenged the
legality and validity of the sanction granted by the State Government
in the Agricultural Department to proceed with the prosecution of
the petitioner under the provision of IPC as well as the P.C. Act,
1988 . The petition was dismissed on 13.3.2012 on the basis of the
prayer for withdrawal of the same with liberty to approach the trial
Court to question the validity of the sanction granted. Thereafter the
petitioner filed petition No. 470/2012 questioning the validity of the
sanction for prosecution which has been rejected by order dated
14.8.2012. It was contended that since a departmental proceeding
was initiated against the petitioner, the criminal proceeding was not
maintainable. In the said order, learned Special judge has recorded
that stage was not appropriate to go into the merit of the
prosecution case and for that matter culpability of the accused Criminal petitions Page 81 of 94 petitioner. It has also been observed that said aspect of the matter
could be cleared only after taking into account all the evidence. It
will be pertinent to mention here that in the instant case,
prosecution evidence has already been closed after examining 18
witnesses and the case was fixed for defence statement. It was at
that stage, the petitioner questioned the sanction for prosecution
order referring to the provisions of Section 19(3) of the P.C. Act.
Learned Special Judge has held that merely because that the
petitioner was exonerated in the departmental proceeding, it cannot
be said that the prosecution sanction order is bad in law. 122. As discussed above, the principle underlying both the
proceeding i.e. departmental and criminal being quite distinct and
different, I do not find any infirmity in the order passed by the
learned Special Judge. Accordingly, the criminal petition is dismissed
with the vacation of the interim order. 123. In all the criminal petitions, the prayer is to quash the
respective proceedings in reference to the impugned orders by which
the learned Special Judge has taken cognizance of the offences
against each one of the petitioners as discussed above. The findings
against the respective cases have been recorded above. It was
contended by the learned counsel for the petitioners that the
materials on record do not justifying framing of charges against the
petitioners. Under Section 227, if after consideration of the case
record and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution, the Judge considers that there is no sufficient ground to
proceed against the accused, he shall discharge the accused and
record his reasons for doing so. But under Section 228, if after such
consideration and hearing, the Judge is of the opinion that there is
ground for presuming that the accused has committed the offence,
which is exclusively triable by the Court of Session, he shall frame a
charge in writing against the accused. When such a charge is framed,
it shall be read and explained to the accused, who shall be asked as
to whether he pleads guilty to the offence charged or claims to be

tried. 124. On a total reading of the said two provisions, it is seen that in
case of discharge, reasons are required to be recorded but in case of
framing of charge, there is no such requirement. At the time of
framing charge, the Court is to see as to whether the materials on
record would justify trial against the accused. At that stage, the
probative value of the materials on record cannot be gone into. On
perusal of the impugned orders involved in this batch of criminal
petitions, it cannot be said that the learned Special Judge proceeded
mechanically in framing the charges. I may gainfully refer to the
decision of the Apex Court in Sajjan Kumar Vs. Central Bureau of
Investigation reported in (2010) 9 SCC 368 in which the Apex Court
recorded thus :- For this limited purpose, sift the evidence as
 it cannot be expected even at that initial
 stage to accept all that the prosecution states
 as gospel truth even if it is opposed to
 common sense or the broad probabilities of
 the case. vii) If two views are possible and one of them
 gives rise to suspicion only, as distinguished
 from grave suspicion, the trial Judge will be
 empowered to discharge the accused and at
 this stage, he is not to see whether the trial
 will end in conviction or acquittal." 125. In the present batch of criminal petitions, having regard to the
nature of the offences and the modus operandi adopted by the
accused persons as projected in the charge sheet and briefly referred
to against each one of the cases, I am of the considered opinion that
it is not a fit case for exercise of jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C.. This view I have taken, gets fortified by the decision of the
Apex Court in Rumi Dhar Vs. State of West Bengal reported in
(2009) 6 SCC 364, in which the Apex Court observed thus :- 126. In CBI Vs. Ravishankar Prasad reported in (2009) 6 SCC 351
dealing with the inherent powers of the High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C., the Apex Court has observed thus :- 127. In the instant case, the learned Special Judge has passed the
impugned orders considering the matters in their entirety and took
cognizance of the offences for the reasons recorded in the said order.
As already discussed above, the provisions relating to sanction for
prosecution cannot be misused as a seal towards protecting the
public servants from facing the legal proceedings which are required
to be brought to their logical conclusion, in our legal system founded
on rule of law. The guidelines in Vineet Narain (Supra) cannot
remain symbolic, in terms of which the time limit of 3 (three) months
towards granting prosecution sanction must be strictly adhered to. It
is in such circumstances, the above quoted observations and
directions have been made by the apex Court in Subramonium
Swamy (Supra) case. 128. We have already examined the facts and merits of the present
batch of criminal petitions. It may not be out of place to discuss as to
the ambit and scope of the power which the Courts including the
High Court can exercise under Section 482 read with Section 401 and
397 of the Code. As discussed in Amit Kapoor Vs. Ramesh Chander
and another reported in (2012) 9 SCC 460, Section 397 of the Code
vests the court with the power to call for and examine the records
of an inferior court for the purposes of satisfying itself as to the
legality and regularity of any proceedings or order made in a case.
The object of this provision is to set right a patent defect or an error
of jurisdiction or law. There has to be a well-founded error and it
may not be appropriate for the court to scrutinize the orders, which
upon the face of it bears a token of careful consideration and appear
to be in accordance with law. If one looks into the various judgments
of the Apex Court, it emerges that the revisional jurisdiction can be
invoked where the decisions under challenge are grossly erroneous,
there is no compliance with the provisions of law, the finding
recorded is based on no evidence, material evidence is ignored Criminal petitions Page 86 of 94 or judicial discretion is exercised arbitrarily or perversely. These
are not exhaustive classes, but are merely indicative. Each case
would have to be determined on its own merits. 129. Another well-accepted norm is that the revisional jurisdiction
of the higher court is a very limited one and cannot be exercised in a
routine manner. One of the inbuilt restrictions is that it should not
be against an interim or interlocutory order. The Court has to keep
in mind that the exercise of revisional jurisdiction itself should not
lead to injustice ex-facie. Where the Court is dealing with the
question as to whether the charge has been framed properly and
in accordance with law in a given case, it may be reluctant to
interfere in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction unless the case
substantially falls within the categories aforestated. Even framing
of charge is a much advanced stage in the proceedings under the
Cr.P.C. 130. The revisional jurisdiction exercised by the High Court,
needless to say is to be exercised on a question of law. However,
when factual appreciation is involved, this must find place in the
class of cases resulting in a perverse finding. Basically, the power is
required to be exercised so that justice is done and there is no abuse
of power by the Court. Merely an apprehension or suspension of the
same would not be a sufficient ground for interference in such cases. 131. At the initial stage of framing of a charge, the court is
concerned not with proof but with a strong suspicion that the
accused has committed an offence, which, if put to trial, could prove
him guilty. All that the court has to see is that the material on
record and the facts would be compatible with the innocence of the
accused or not. The final test of guilt is not to be applied at that
stage. We may refer to the well settled law laid down by this Court
in the case of State of Bihar v. Ramesh Singh (1977) 4 SCC 39: 132. The jurisdiction of the Court under Section 397 can be
exercised so as to examine the correctness, legality or proprietary of
an order passed by the trial court or the inferior court, as the case
may be. Though the section does not specifically use the expression
'prevent abuse of process of any court or otherwise to secure the
ends of justice', the jurisdiction under Section 397 is a very limited
one. The legality, proprietary or correctness of an order passed
by a court is the very foundation of exercise of jurisdiction
under Section 397 but ultimately it also requires justice to be done.
The jurisdiction could be exercised where there is palpable error,
non-compliance with the provisions of law, the decision is
completely erroneous or where the judicial discretion is
exercised arbitrarily. On the other hand, Section 482 is based upon
the maxim quando lex liquid alicuiconcedit, conceder videtur id
quo res ipsa esse non protest, i.e., when the law gives anything to
anyone, it also gives all those things without which the thing
itself would be unavoidable. The Section confers very wide power
on the Court to do justice and to ensure that the process of the Court
is not permitted to be abused. 133. In Amit Kapoor (Supra), the Apex Court making a comparative
examination of the powers exercisable by the Court under Section
397 and 482 Cr.P.C., observed thus :- In this very case, the Court also considered as to
 whether the inherent powers of the High Court under
 Section 482 stand repelled when the revisional
 power under Section 397 overlaps. Rejecting the
 argument, the Court said that the opening words
 of Section 482 contradict this contention because
 nothing in the Code, not even Section 397, can
 affect the amplitude of the inherent powers
 preserved in so many terms by the language of
 Section 482. There is no total ban on the exercise
 of inherent powers where abuse of the process of
 the Court or any other extraordinary situation
 invites the court's jurisdiction. The limitation is
 self-restraint, nothing more. The distinction between
 a final and interlocutory order is well known in law.
 The orders which will be free from the bar of Section
 397(2) would be the orders which are not purely
 interlocutory but, at the same time, are less than a
 final disposal. They should be the orders which do
 determine some right and still are not finally Criminal petitions Page 90 of 94 rendering the Court functus officio of the lis. The
 provisions of Section 482 are pervasive. It should
 not subvert legal interdicts written into the same
 Code but, however, inherent powers of the Court
 unquestionably have to be read and construed as
 free of restriction." 134. In Amit Kapoor (Supra) discussing the scope of interference
under any of the aforesaid provisions in relation to quashing the
charge, the Apex Court has made the following observations :- 135. In paragraph 27 of the judgement after discussing the scope
and jurisdiction under Section 397 and 482 of the Code, the Apex
Court while enlisting the principles with reference to which the
Courts should exercise such jurisdiction under Section 397 or 401 or
Section 482 of the Code or altogether laid down, inter alia, the
following principles : 136. As discussed above, in the instant batch of criminal petitions,
the petitioners have questioned the particular jurisdiction exercised Criminal petitions Page 93 of 94 by the learned Special Judge towards passing the impugned orders.
When tested in the touchstone of the principles enumerated above
including the discussions made above, it is to be borne in mind that
the task of upholding the rule of law may require the Court to step in
to removing the injustice resulted due to inaction on the part of the
legislature and when and where there is inaction even by the
executive, for whatever reason, the judiciary must step in, in
exercise of its constitutional obligation under the aforesaid
provisions to provide a solution till such time as the legislature
acts to perform its role by enacting proper legislature to cover
the field. 137. For all the aforesaid reasons I am not inclined to quash the
criminal proceedings launched against the petitioners involved in this
batch of criminal petitions. The learned Special Judge may conclude
the proceedings as expeditiously as possible. 138. All the criminal petitions are dismissed and the stay orders
operating therein stand vacated. 139. The Registry is directed to transmit the case records forthwith
to the Court of learned Special Judge, Guwahati along with a copy of
this judgement and order. JUDGE

Mkk/Sukhamay Criminal petitions Page 94 of 94