1. It is settled law that once the period of 90 days, as stipulated
under clause (a) (i) of the proviso to Sub-section (2) of Section 167 Cr.P.C., came to an end, the right of a person arrested in connection
with the commission of an offence to be released on statutory bail
commenced and could not be extinguished by a subsequent
application for extension of the period of custody. 2. The provisions of Section 167(2) of the Code were modified
by virtue of Section 43D of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act,
1967. The modification of the provisions of Section 167(2) Cr.P.C.
by virtue of Section 43D of the aforesaid Act is extracted
hereinbelow :- 3. In view of modification to the provisions of Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., the period of 90 days stipulated for completion of
investigation and filing of charge-sheet, was modified by virtue of the
amended proviso, which indicated that if the investigation could not Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 2 of 28 be completed within 90 days and if the Court was satisfied with the
report of the Public Prosecutor indicating the progress of the
investigation and the specific reasons for detention of the accused
beyond the period of 90 days, extend the said period upto 180 days.
Meaning thereby, the custody of an accused could be directed
initially for a period of 90 days and, thereafter, for a further period of
90 days for the purpose of filing charge-sheet. In the event the
charge-sheet was not filed even within the extended period of 180
days, the conditions directing that the accused persons shall be
released on bail if he is prepared to do and does furnish bail, would
become operative. 4. For offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act,
1967 , investigation can be conducted by the National Investigating
Agency and the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973
would apply concerning investigation as also cognizance of offences
by Courts, but as modified by the applicable provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 . The cognizance of
reports had to be by the Designated Courts constituted as per law
under the NIA Act . 5. The three petitioners, namely, Mohd. Maroof @ Ibrahim,
Wakar Azhar, Mohd. Saqib Ansari have filed the present petition
under Section 482 Cr.P.C read with Article 226 of Constitution of
India or in the alternate Criminal Appeal under Section 21 of N.I.A.
Act, 2008 for quashing of order dated 7th June, 2014 passed by the
Additional Sessions Judge-02/FTC, New Delhi District, Patiala
House Courts, New Delhi. 6. The status report has been filed by the respondent which
disclosed the lengthy details of the involvement of the petitioners,
cases pending against them as well as the details of investigation. 7. It is the case of the prosecution that on 21st November, 2011
on the basis of specific source information one Mohd. Quateel
Siddiqui @Sajan @Siraj @Vivek Mishra (since expired), s/o Mohd.
Zafeer, r/o Village Barhsamela, PO Lalganj, PS Kyoti, Darbhanga,
Bihar; present address: 7307, Aram Nagar, Nabi Karim, Paharganj,
Delhi, was arrested from near Anand Vihar Inter State Bus Terminal
and the possession of arms, ammunition, fake Indian currency and
other incriminating articles were recovered from him. In this regard
initially a case vide FIR No.54/11 dated 22nd November, 2011 under Section 489B / 489C IPC and 25 Arms Act was registered at Police
Station Special Cell, New Delhi. 7.1 During interrogation, accused Quateel Siddique disclosed
that he is a member of "Indian Mujahiddin" (IM), a banned terrorist
outfit. Therefore, Sections 16 / 18 / 20 of Unlawful Activities
(Prevention) Act, 1967 were added and investigation was taken up
by ACP/ Special Cell. The arrested accused Quateel disclosed that
he was involved in various terrorist activities, i.e. German Bakery
Blast in Pune, 2010, Chinnaswami Stadium blast at Bengaluru, 2010
and Jama Masjid attacks in Delhi, 2010. He further disclosed about
his associates and other members of Indian Mujahiddin. Besides
Quateel Siddiqui, 24 accused including the present petitioners, all
members of banned terrorist organization 'Indian Mujahiddin' have
been arrested in this case on different dates from different places. Huge quantity of explosives, arms and ammunitions were recovered
from their possession/hideouts. An arms and ammunition factory,
being run by this module of Indian Mujahiddin was also unearthed at
Meer Vihar, Delhi. Charge sheet and supplementary charge sheets
have been filed in concerned court against the arrested accused
persons on different dates. Some of the arrested accused persons
were also arrested in Jama Masjid attack case which was executed
in September 2010. 7.2 Non-Bailable Warrants were issued against the wanted
accused persons including Riyaz Bhatkal and Iqbal Bhatkal, Top
commanders of Indian Mujahiddin. 7.3 On 22nd March, 2014 on the basis of secret information one
wanted accused Waqas, a Pakistani National, also involved in Jama
Masjid attack cases registered vide FIR Nos. 65/10 and 66/10 PS
Jama Masjid (investigated by Special Cell) was arrested from Ajmer
Railway Station, Rajasthan. Complete identity of Waqas was
revealed as Zia-Ur-Rehman @ Waqas @ Nabeel Ahmed @ Ahmed,
s/o Jalaluddin, r/o Village Mustafabad, Tehsil Toba Tek Singh,
Punjab, Pakistan. 7.4 It was revealed in the interrogation of accused Waqas that he
was on his way to Jaipur on the directions of Tehsin Akhtar @
Monu, the operational commander of Indian Mujahiddin in India and
Riyaz Bhatkal, the Chief Commander of IM currently reported to be
operating out from Pakistan, to oversee a terrorist operation which
was to be carried out in Delhi by members of IM namely Maroof,
Waqar and Saquib who were based in Jaipur and Jodhpur, Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 5 of 28 Rajasthan and for that purpose, a huge consignment of explosive
material was lying with these members of IM. 7.5 On the basis of disclosure statement of arrested accused Zia-
Ur-Rehman @Waqas, two persons namely Md. Maroof @Ibrahim
and Waqar Azhar @Haneef were arrested from Jaipur and Saquib
Ansari @ Khalid was arrested from Jodhpur, Rajasthan with the
assistance of ATS Jaipur and ATS Jodhpur. 7.6 Huge quantity of explosive material including detonators, live
Sutli bombs, timers, circuits. Ammonium Nitrate and digital items
such as Laptops, pen drives, mobiles and Jihadi literature were
recovered from their possession. 7.7 In view of recoveries affected from their possession a case
vide FIR No. 03/14, dated 23rd March, 2014, under Section 120-B IPC, 3/10/13 Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 and 4/5 Explosive Substances Act was registered at PS CID, Jaipur and a
case vide FIR No. 112/14, dated 23rd March, 2014 under Section
120-B IPC, 18/19/20 Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 and
4/5 Explosive Substances Act was registered at PS Pratap Nagar,
Jodhpur, respectively. 7.8 These cases were investigated by ATS Jaipur and ATS
Jodhpur, Rajasthan. The emergence of a new module of Indian
Mujahideen in Rajasthan was also revealed after the arrest of Yasin
Bhatkal, and Assadullah Akhtar @ Haddi, top terrorist of Indian
Mujahideen in India, on 29th August 2013 by NIA in case RC-
06/2012/NIA/DLI and their subsequent arrest in the present case. 7.9 During investigation, Tehsin Akhtar, the operational
Commander of Indian Mujahiddin (IM) in India was also arrested on
25th March, 2014 in the present case. A number of Jihadi songs and
speeches of different commanders of terrorist organizations like
Osama Bin Laden (an international terrorist) and Anwar Awlaki
(motivational Jihadi speaker), books like 'Gazwa-e-Hind' which
propagates that the group of jihadist which will fight against India will
go to heaven, photographs of foreign terrorists, books like 'Jehad
aur iske Taqajey', video songs related Kashmiri terrorists, videos
about the use of transistors, videos showing Hindu Muslim riots,
book like 'a message to every youth' invitation for every Muslim
youth to join Jehad, videos containing Jihadi songs of terrorist
organizations 'LeT' and 'Jaish-e-Mohammad', videos showing
terrorist training, images showing explosion of lED, TNT by remote,
video named 'Indian Mujahideen Aseer' which shows photos of Batla
House Encounter of Delhi with logo of Indian Mujahideen, playing
Jihadi motivational song and a lot more Jehadi books, videos,
pictures were recovered from the Laptop and pen drives of accused
Md Maroof, Waqar Azhar and Saquib Ansari. A large number of
incriminatory Chats/e-mail contents between these arrested accused
persons and Riyaz Bhatkal were recovered from their e-mail/chat
accounts. It was revealed from the analysis of chats/e-mails that
these accused were talking about terrorist training, arrangement of
logistics, arms and explosives and preparation and execution of
blast in different places. It has also been revealed during the
investigation that these accused persons for the purpose of causing Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 7 of 28 blasts in Delhi, Agra and Bharatpur, Rajasthan did reconnaissance
of vital installations such as Red Fort in Delhi and Taj Mahal in Agra
on the instructions of Riyaz Bhatkal. Accused Tehsin Akhtar and
Waqas had also imparted training to accused Md Maroof, Waqar
and Saquib for making lEDs to be used in blasts. 7.10 A number of fake Ids were also recovered from the
possession of arrested accused persons which they were using to
procure SIM Cards, mobiles, for arrangement of accommodation
and other logistic support at the time of terrorist attack. They were
also getting money through Hawala and Western Union Money
Transfer by using these fake IDs. After the arrest of Md Maroof,
Waqar Azhar and Saquib Ansari by Special Cell, a number of Indian
Mujahideen members were arrested by ATS Jaipur and ATS
Jodhpur in Rajasthan on the basis of information given by these
arrested accused persons. These members were motivated by Md
Maroof for subversive and terrorist activities. 8. The petitioners/accused persons were arrested on 23rd
March, 2014 for alleged crimes/conspiracy and on 19th April, 2014
on the completion of police custody remand of accused Md. Maroof,
Waqar Azhar and Saquib Ansari, they were sent to judicial custody
in the present case. On the same day they were taken on transit
remand by the investigation officers of ATS Jaipur and ATS Jodhpur
in the cases investigated by them. 9. During the investigation on 2nd June, 2014 an application was
moved before trial court for issuing notices to the counsels of
accused persons and production warrants of accused persons for 7th Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 8 of 28 June, 2014, as on that day an application for extension of period of
investigation beyond 90 days was moved before trial court. As the
accused Md Maroof, Waqar Azhar and Saquib Ansari were in Jaipur
and Jodhpur Jails, required for the investigation of cases registered
there, therefore Production Warrants were sent there. 10. On 7th June, 2014 an application seeking extension of period
of investigation was moved before trial court. None of the accused
was produced from judicial custody. Shri MS Khan was present on
behalf of accused Tehsin Akhtar, Imtiyaz and Waqas. The trial court
after hearing arguments extended the period of investigation for
thirty days w.e.f. 21st June, 2014. 11. As the trial Court extended the period of investigation from 90
days to 120 days on the basis of the Public Prosecutor report. The
case of the petitioners is that the said order was passed in violation
of the provisions of law as prescribed by Section 43 (D)(2)(b) of
Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. 12. On 23rd June, 2014 bail application under Section 167 (2) Cr.P.C. was filed on behalf of the petitioners. Due to vacations, the
Additional Sessions Judge did not preside on 23rd June, 2014 and
the said bail application was filed before the Link Judge. The said
bail application of the accused/appellant was taken up for hearing
and the court by the impugned order dated 23rd June, 2014 the
same was dismissed. 13. Again, on 17th July, 2014 an application was moved before
trial court for issuing notices to the counsels of accused persons and
production warrants of accused persons for 18th July, 2014. 14. On 18th July, 2014 an application seeking extension of period
of investigation was moved before trial court. None of the accused
was produced from judicial custody. Shri Akram Khan was present
on behalf of accused Tehsin Akhtar, Imtiyaz and Waqas. Shri
Mehmood Pracha, despite receiving of notice did not appear before
trial court at the time of extension of period of investigation. 15. The Charge Sheet against the arrested accused persons was
filed before trial court on 8th August, 2014. 16. The case is at the stage of framing of Charge. 17. Being aggrieved by the impugned order dated 7th June, 2014
the petitioners have filed the present petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. challenging the legality of the impugned order dated 7th
June, 2014 mainly on the following grounds:- (ii) By extending the period of investigation from 90 days to 120
 days by not issuing notice, with regard to extension of custody,
 to the appellant/accused or his counsel as per the law laid down
 by Supreme Court in Hitender Vishnu Thakur vs. State of Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 10 of 28 Maharashtra reported as (1994) 4 SCC 602 and B.K. Lala v.
 State of Chhattisgarh. (iii) The specific report of the Public Prosecutor specifying the
 grounds for further detention with respect to each accused
 person as mandated by law under Section 43 (D) (2) (b) of
 Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 is a necessity for
 extension of investigation period beyond a period of 90 days. (iv) The Public Prosecutor Smt. Reeta Dutta is not competent as
 per the provisions of NIA Act to plead for the prosecution as she
 is not appointed as per provisions of NIA Act . Therefore, the so
 called report dated 7th June, 2014 filed by Public Prosecutor has
 no legal sanctity in the eyes of law and is therefore null and void
 ab-initio and as such could not have been relied upon by the
 Additional Sessions Judge-02 and accordingly any order
 passed on the basis such report is illegal and not sustainable in
 law as well as the entire records pertaining to the matter. (v) The Additional Sessions Judge-02 below committed flagrant
 miscarriage of justice by ignoring the crucial fact that so called
 report was prepared without application of mind and without
 disclosing the detailed and precise status of the investigation
 and without specifically disclosing the reasons qua each
 accused as to specific reasons for detention of the accused.
 The report of the Public Prosecutor was prepared in a routine,
 casual, vague and stereotypical manner. 18. The following order was passed on 7th June, 2014, the same
is reproduced as under:- 19. It is argued by the learned counsel for the petitioners that the
impugned order dated 7th June, 2014 extending the period for further
30 days is not only unjustifiable, but has also engrossed upon the
right to life and personal liberty of the appellant/accused as
guaranteed under Article 21 of Constitution of India. It ought to have
been considered that the application moved by the investigation
agency for the extension of custody of the appellant is nothing but
an attempt to deprive the appellant from his indefeasible right to be
released on bail as per the statutory provisions of Cr.P.C . more
particularly Section 167 (2). 20. Mr.Mehmood Pracha, learned counsel for the petitioners has
made mainly two submissions. The first one is that after the charge-
sheet was not filed within 90 days as stipulated under Section
167(2) Cr.P.C., the petitioners were entitled to get the bail on the
basis of indefeasible right as per the statutory provision. The
second submission is that the petitioners were arrested on 23rd
March, 2014 for fictitious crimes/conspiracy and they were kept in
custody for a period of 90 days which expired on 21st June, 2014.
The prosecution with intent to misuse the process of law filed the Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 13 of 28 application seeking further extension from 90 days to 120 days by
attaching the Public Prosecutor report dated 7th June, 2014. On the
same day, the matter was taken up by the trial Court in the absence
of the petitioners/accused and their counsel. Even, no notice was
issued to them or their counsel extending the period of investigation
from 90 days to 120 days. Therefore, the order passed on 7th June,
2014 is an illegal order and the same is liable to be quashed. 21. In support of his both submissions, the learned counsel for
the petitioners has relied upon the following judgments:- ( ii) Sayed Mohd. Ahmed Kazmi v. State, GNCTD & Ors. ,
 (2012) 12 SCC 1. ( iii) Syed Maqbool v. N.I.A. , 2015 Cri.LJ 682. 22. Learned APP for the State submits that while extending the
time, it was the duty of the counsel to appear in the Court. Despite
having the knowledge about the date, counsel did not appear before
Court, his vakalatnama is already on record. A request was made
before the trial court to issue notice to the counsel of accused
persons as well as for production warrants of accused persons. It
was informed that on 7th June, 2014 an application for extension of
period of investigation was moved before the trial court. On the
request of the ACP, the trial court issued notices to the counsel, Shri
M.S. Khan and Shri Mehmood Pracha. Shri M.S. Khan was the
counsel of accused Tehsin Akhtar, Zia-Ur-Rehman @ Waqas and
Imtiyas. As per judicial record Shri Mehmood Pracha, Advocate was Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 14 of 28 the counsel of accused Md. Maroof, one of the petitioners in the
present petition, as per vakalatnama filed on 2nd April, 2014 and
order dated 15th April, 2014 of the trial court, wherein he had caused
his appearance as counsel of accused Maroof. Shri M.S.Khan
received the notice while Mr.Mehmood Pracha refused to receive
the notice as he alleged that he was not his counsel of accused
Maroof. As the petitioners were in Jaipur and Jodhpur Jails in
connection with the investigations of case being investigated against
them in Jaipur and Jodhpur, therefore production warrants were sent
there. But reports were received on the production warrants issued
against the petitioners that they could not be produced before the
trial court due to non availability of Escort Guard. 23. On the other hand, Mr.Mehmood Pracha, learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the petitioners has argued that after the
expiry of 90 days, if any extension is sought, the accused should
have been produced before Court and proper notice to all the
counsel ought to have been given. He submits that in the present
case, the petitioners/accused persons were not produced before the
Court despite of valuable right occurred in their favour and secondly,
even if they were outside Delhi, they ought to have been produced
before the Local Court (nearest Magistrate). Therefore, the order
passed on 7th June, 2014 is an illegal order. The learned counsel for the petitioners has relied upon the
judgment passed by the Supreme Court in the case of Hitendra
Vishnu Thakur v. State of Maharashtra , (1994) 4 SCC 602,
wherein it was held as under:- 21. Thus, we find that once the period for filing the
 charge-sheet has expired and either no extension under
 clause (bb) has been granted by the Designated Court or
 the period of extension has also expired, the accused
 person would be entitled to move an application for being
 admitted to bail under sub-section (4) of Section 20 TADA read with Section 167 of the Code and the
 Designated Court shall release him on bail, if the
 accused seeks to be so released and furnishes the
 requisite bail. We are not impressed with the argument of
 the learned counsel for the appellant that on the expiry of
 the period during which investigation is required to be
 completed under Section 20(4) TADA read with Section
 167 of the Code, the court must release the accused on
 bail on its own motion even without any application from
 an accused person on his offering to furnish bail. In our
 opinion an accused is required to make an application if
 he wishes to be released on bail on account of the
 'default' of the investigating/prosecuting agency and
 once such an application is made, the court should issue
 a notice to the public prosecutor who may either show
 that the prosecution has obtained the order for extension
 for completion of investigation from the court under
 clause (bb) or that the challan has been filed in the
 Designated Court before the expiry of the prescribed
 period or even that the prescribed period has actually not
 expired and thus resist the grant of bail on the alleged
 ground of 'default'. The issuance of notice would avoid
 the possibility of an accused obtaining an order of bail Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 19 of 28 under the 'default' clause by either deliberately or
 inadvertently concealing certain facts and would avoid
 multiplicity of proceedings. It would, therefore, serve the
 ends of justice if both sides are heard on a petition for
 grant of bail on account of the prosecution's 'default'.
 Similarly, when a report is submitted by the public
 prosecutor to the Designated Court for grant of extension
 under clause (bb), its notice should be issued to the
 accused before granting such an extension so that an
 accused may have an opportunity to oppose the
 extension on all legitimate and legal grounds available to
 him. It is true that neither clause (b) nor clause (bb) of
 sub-section (4) of Section 20 TADA specifically provide
 for the issuance of such a notice but in our opinion the
 issuance of such a notice must be read into these
 provisions both in the interest of the accused and the
 prosecution as well as for doing complete justice
 between the parties. This is a requirement of the
 principles of natural justice and the issuance of notice to
 the accused or the public prosecutor, as the case may
 be, would accord with fair play in action, which the courts
 have always encouraged and even insisted upon. It
 would also strike a just balance between the interest of
 the liberty of an accused on the one hand and the
 society at large through the prosecuting agency on the
 other hand. There is no prohibition to the issuance of
 such a notice to the accused or the public prosecutor in
 the scheme of the Act and no prejudice whatsoever can
 be caused by the issuance of such a notice to any party.
 We must as already noticed reiterate that the objection to
 the grant of bail to an accused on account of the 'default'
 of the prosecution to complete the investigation and file
 the challan within the maximum period prescribed under
 clause (b) of sub-section (4) of Section 20 TADA or
 within the extended period as envisaged by clause (bb)
 has to be limited to cases where either the factual basis
 for invoking the 'default' clause is not available or the
 period for completion of investigation has been extended Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 20 of 28 under clause (bb) and the like. No other condition like the
 gravity of the case, seriousness of the offence or
 character of the offender etc. can weigh with the court at
 that stage to refuse the grant of bail to an accused under
 sub-section (4) of Section 20 TADA on account of the
 'default' of the prosecution." 24. It is true that the Right to Life and Personal Liberty of the
petitioners/accused is guaranteed under Article 21 of Constitution of
India. But at the same time, the matter has to be decided on merits
and in accordance with law and also as per the facts of the matter. 25. In the present case, admittedly 90 days period after the arrest
expired on 21st June, 2014. The Investigation Agency, Special Cell,
Delhi Police filed another application seeking further extension from
90 days to 120 days. The Public Prosecutor attached his alleged
report dated 7th June, 2014 which was accepted on the same. The
bail application was admittedly filed on 23rd June, 2014, i.e. after
allowing the application for extension of time for investigation from
90 days to 120 days. The said bail application was dismissed on the
same day, i.e. 23rd June, 2014. The said order was not challenged
by the petitioners prior to filing of the present petition. Under these
circumstances, if once the Court after examining the order dated 7th
June, 2014 and the report of the Public Prosecutor prima-facie
makes its opinion that the case of further investigation is made out
by granting extension, obviously the benefit for acquiring the right for
grant of statutory bail stands extinguished because of the reason
that the bail in the present case was applied on 23rd June, 2014.
Ninety days period was expiring on 21st June, 2014 and prior to Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 21 of 28 expiry of custody period of 90 days, the application for extension of
time for investigation was allowed on 7th June, 2014. 26. The decision referred by the learned counsel for the
petitioners in Sayed Mohd. Ahmed Kazmi (supra) is not applicable
to the facts of the present case due to the reasons that in that case ,
the custody of the accused was held to be illegal on 17th July, 2012
before the trial Court after the expiry of 90 days. The trial Court did
not hear the application under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. and simply re-
notified for hearing on 18th July, 2012. The application for extension
of period of custody was allowed by the trial Court on 20th July, 2012
without considering the application under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C.
and subsequently extension of time of investigation and custody of
the accused was extended with retrospective effect from 2nd June,
2012. Since on the expiry of first period of custody beyond 90 days,
there was no application pending for extension of the period of
custody as contemplated under the amended provisions of Section
167(2) Cr.P.C. 27. However, in the present case, the application for extension of
custody period was filed prior to the expiry of the period of 90 days.
The same was allowed before the expiry of 90 days. The
application for bail was filed on 23rd June, 2014 when the application
for extension was already allowed. Therefore, under no
circumstances, the referred decision would help the case of
petitioners. It is clear that the benefit sought by the petitioners on
23rd June, 2014 was not available. The trial Court has rightly
dismissed the said application treated as normal application on Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 22 of 28 merit. The other decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for
the petitioners on this issue are not applicable to the facts of the
present case. 28. Now, the next issue raised by the petitioners is that the order
passed by the trial Court on 7th June, 2014 is illegal, on the reasons
stated in the grounds of the petition. 29. The Division Bench of this Court had an occasion to deal with
the same issue in the case of Syed Maqbool v. N.I.A , (supra)
wherein it was held as under :- 14. The centre of gravity of the first argument concerns
 the first proviso to sub- Section 2 of Section 43D of the
 Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. It reads: 15. Now, as a matter of fact, when the 90 days period of
 detention was about to expire, pleading that the
 investigation was still in progress, an application was filed
 contents whereof have been reproduced in paragraph 3 by
 us for detention to be extended up to 180 days and along
 with the application a report of the learned Public
 Prosecutor was filed contents whereof have been noted by
 us in paragraph 4 above. 16. The requirement of the proviso is that if it is not
 possible to complete the investigation within the period of
 90 days, if the Court is satisfied with the report of the Public
 Prosecutor that the progress of the investigation requires
 detention of the accused beyond period of 90 days but up
 to 180 days, the Court may permit so. Undisputably the
 mandate of the law warrants: (i) a satisfaction to be
 recorded by the Court; (ii) with reference to the report of
 the Public Prosecutor; and (iii) which report must indicate Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 25 of 28 the progress of the investigation and the specific reasons
 for the detention of the accused beyond 90 days up to 180
 days. 17. The report of the Public Prosecutor makes a reference
 to the application prepared by the Investigating Officer. It
 also records that the learned Public Prosecutor has
 perused the case diary. The report highlights that a large
 number of call details and e-mails as also IDs of suspects
 have to be collected. It records that the investigation is
 voluminous and lengthy. The application brings out that the
 investigation related to activities of Indian Mujahideen, a
 proscribed terrorist organization, in association with the
 sleeper cells of Indian Mujahideen. The application brings
 out that the investigation concerned terrorist activities by
 causing bomb blast with the aid of associates based in
 Pakistan. The application brings out that a large data
 pertaining to call details have been seized and the same
 were to be analyzed. Some items such as mobile phones
 and retrieved e-mails were sent to the CFSL for forensic
 analysis. The application brings out that the investigation
 was scattered in at least six states. 18. The application and the report of the Public Prosecutor
 have indicated the progress of the investigation and the
 specific reasons for the detention of the accused up to 180
 days." xxx xxx xxx xxx 26. Learned counsel for the appellants has relied upon the
 decision of the Supreme Court reported as ( 1994) 4 SCC
 602 Hitendra Vishnu Thakur & Ors. Vs. State of
 Maharashtra & Ors. to urge that in view of said decision
 where a similarly worded proviso was added to sub- Section
 4 of Section 20 of TADA, the impugned order had to be set
 aside. 27. The proviso considered by the Supreme Court reads
 as under:- "Provided further that, if it is not possible to Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 26 of 28 complete the investigation within the said period of one
 hundred and eighty days, the Designated Court shall
 extend the said period up to one year, on the report of the
 Public Prosecutor indicating the progress of the
 investigation and the specific reasons for the detention of
 the accused beyond the said period of one hundred and
 eighty days; and". 30. No doubt, on 7th June, 2014, the accused persons/petitioners
were not produced before Court at the time of extension of time of
investigation for 30 days, though it is the requirement of the principle
of natural justice and for issuance of notice to the accused.
However, it has come on the record that the trial Court had issued a
notice to the counsel who were appearing on behalf of the accused,
they did not appear despite of having knowledge about the
concerned application. One of the counsel refused to receive the
notice. He did not appear when the application for extension of time
of investigation for 30 days was taken up. If he had any objection
about the production of accused at the time of extension, he could
have appeared and pointed out the same to the trial court. The
reasons given by the counsel are unacceptable. This Court after
having gone through the report submitted by the Public Prosecutor
allowed the prayer of the said application. Many other objections
were raised by the counsel in this regard, I am of the view that while
sitting in the jurisdiction of 482 Cr.P.C ., the Court is not to decide the
objections unless the order is perverse or it has been passed
contrary to law. One of the objections is with regard to the
appointment of public prosecutor by the Government. These are the
issues which are to be considered at the time of framing of charge. Prima-facie, this Court is satisfied with the reasons recorded by the
trial Court on the basis of the report of the Public Prosecutor. The
report submitted by the Public Prosecutor is a very detailed report
which indicates the progress of the investigation and specific
reasons are given for the detention of the accused beyond 90 days
to 120 days. All the objections raised by the petitioners are allowed
to be taken by them at the time of framing of charge. 31. Another aspect of the matter is that even the second
extension sought by the prosecution was also granted by the trial
Court. The said order has not been challenged by the petitioners.
Under these circumstances, I am not inclined to interfere with the
order dated 7th June, 2014 and once the said order is sustainable,
the petitioners did not get the benefit of indefensible rights of bail
under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. as the time was extended by the trial
Court within the period of 90 days. It is settled law that the
provisions of the statute have to be read in a meaningful manner
and the same are given effect to in case of any conflict to the
provisions, i.e. Sections 167(2) Cr.P.C and 43 (D) of the Unlawful
Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 have to be read together. 32. Thus, there is no force in the submission of the learned
counsel for the petitioners. The petition is accordingly dismissed. 33. No order as to costs. (MANMOHAN SINGH)
 JUDGE
MAY 12, 2015 Crl.M.C. No.3644/2014 Page 28 of 28