FACTS IN BRIEF / CASE SET UP BY THE PROSECUTION 1. The facts as alleged by the prosecution, are hereby succinctly

 recapitulated. It was alleged that on 02.04.2017 at about 08:20 am near

 Bhure Shah Darghah, Neela Gumbad, Dr Zakir Hussain Marg,

 Nizamuddin, New Delhi, within the jurisdiction of PS Hazrat

 Nizamuddin, accused Mobina @ Mobia was found in conscious

 possession of one bag which was found containing 2.400 Kg Ganja.

 Thereafter, the accused was arrested, and investigation was conducted,

 whereafter the present chargesheet came to be filed. FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 1/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 2. Charges under section 20(b) of NDPS Act, were framed qua the accused

 to which she pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. EVIDENCE LED BY PROSECUTION 3. In the trial, the prosecution in support of its case, examined 6 witnesses,

 the succinct testimonies whereof are as follows: 4. PW-1 Jitender Kumar, Senior Scientific Officer deposed that on

 12.04.2017, case property of this case in the sealed pullanda was

 deposited in his office and it was marked to him for examination and

 report. He further deposed that he examined the exhibit after checking

 and comparing the seal which were found as per record from 17.05.2017

 to 29.05.2017. On physical, microscopic, chemical, TLC and GC - MS

 examination, exhibit mark as S1 was found to be ganja (cannabis). The

 remnant were sealed in the pullanda with a seal of JK FSL DELHI. His

 detailed report was exhibited as Ex.PW1/A, which bore his signature at

 point-A on each page alongwith his sample seal impression at point-B. 5. PW-2 L/Ct. Sheetal deposed that on 02.04.2017, she was posted as

 Constable at PS Nizamuddin. On that day, at around 8 am, she alongwith

 ASI Satender and Ct. Bhagwan Sahay went for patrolling in the area.

 They were standing in front of the Bhure Shah Dargha at Zakir Hussain

 Marg and keeping watch on the public coming and going. At around 8 -

 08:30 am, one lady came from Lodhi flyover side and after seeing the FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 2/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 6. PW-3 Inspector Jarnail Singh deposed that on 02.04.2017, he was

 posted as Inspector/SHO at PS H.N. Din. On that day, he was present in

 his office in the police station. At about 10:55 AM, Ct Bhagwan Sahay

 reached at police station and produced before him two sealed pullandas,

 both duly sealed with the seal of "S.K" and having mark S & R

 respectively alongwith FSL Form, carbon copy of the seizure memo sent

 by ASI Satender Kumar. He mentioned the particulars of the present FIR

 i.e. 59/2017, PS H.N. Din on both the sealed pullandas and FSL form and

 put his signature. He also sealed both the pullandas with his seal of "J.S".

 he also put the impression of his seal on the FSL Form. After use, he

 handed over his seal to Ct. Bhagwan Sahay. Thereafter, he called HC

 Murli Manohar, then MHC (M) (CP) with Malkhana register and handed

 over the case property to him and got entered the depositing of case

 property in the Malkhana register vide Sr. No. 2641 dated 02.04.2017 on

 which he put his signature, copy of which was Ex PW3/A (OSR) bearing

 his signature at point A. Further investigation of the case was marked to

 SI Ali Akram. He entered in the Roznamcha DD No. 15 at 11:30 AM FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 6/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: dated 02.04.2017 regarding receiving of the case property and its

 deposition in Malkhana, copy of which was Ex PW3/B (OSR). SI Ali

 Akram got forwarded from notice u/s 57 NDPS Act which was proved as

 Ex PW3/C bearing his signature at point A. Original Malkhana Register

 pertaining to abovesaid entry and original Roznamcha Register pertaining

 to DD No. 15-A dated 02.04.2017 seen and returned. 7. PW-4 ASI Satender, deposed that on 02.04.2017, he was posted as ASI

 at PS Nizamuddin. On that day, at around 8 am, he alongwith W/Ct.

 Sheetal and Ct. Bhagwan Sahay went for patrolling in the area. They

 were standing in front of the Bhure Shah Dargha at Zakir Hussain Marg

 and keeping watch on the public coming and going. At around 8 - 08:30

 am, one lady came from Lodhi flyover side and after seeing the police

 party, she started retracting her steps which causes suspicion and the said

 lady was signaled her to stop but the said lady did not pay any heed and

 she started walking quickly. Thereafter, they all chased her and at a short

 distance she was apprehended by the lady constable. The said lady was

 carrying a satchel (thaila) in her hand. On interrogation she disclosed her

 name as Mobina @ Bobia. He asked about the contents of the satchel in

 her hand but she could not give any satisfactory reply. The thaila of the

 accused was checked by him and found containing a black colour

 polythene and on checking the said polythene it was found containing

 some "pattinuma material". On smelling the said material, it was found to FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 7/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 8. PW-5 SI Ali Akram, deposed that on 02.04.2017, he was posted as SI at

 PS Nizamuddin. On that day, after registration of present FIR, Ct

 Bhagwan Sahai handed over him the copy of FIR and original rukka and

 he alongwith him reached at the spot i.e. Zakir Hussain Road near Bhure

 Shah Dargah at patri near Neela Gumbad, HN Din, New Delhi. There he

 met 1st IO ASI Satender who handed over him custody of accused

 Mobina alongwith already prepared documents. He further prepared site

 plan at his instance which was proved as Ex. PW5/A bearing his

 signature at point A. Thereafter he arrested the accused vide arrest and

 personal search memos already Ex. PW2/C and D, bearing his signature

 at point X with help of W/Ct. Sheetal. He interrogated the accused and FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 9/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 9. PW6 HC Bhagwan Sahay deposed that on 02.04.2017, he was posted at

 PS Nizamuddin. On that day, at about 08:00AM he was on patrolling

 duty alongwith ASI Satender and W/Ct. Sheetal. At around 08:30 AM,

 they were standing in front of the Bhure Shah Dargha near Neela

 Gumbad, then they saw one lady who was coming from Lodhi Road side

 and after seeing the police party she became perplex. ASI Satender asked

 W/Ct. Sheetal to check the said lady. The said lady was apprehended and

 her name was revealed after inquiry as Mobina @ Mobia. The accused

 was having a black colour bag (thaila). The bag was taken over from the

 accused and checked. The said bag was found containing one polythene

 which was further found containing 'ganja' type substance because of its

 appearance and smell was of like 'ganja'. The accused told that she was

 taking the said 'ganja' for consumption. She was carrying one mobile FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 10/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 10.The relevancy of the witnesses examined are succinctly delineated in the

 following tabular form: Senior Scientific Officer proved his report viz Ex.PW1/A

 whereby it was opined that the FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 12/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 17. It was further contended that as far as the contention of Ld. Counsel for

 accused, that the search warrants were not taken in compliance of the

 relevant provision of NDPS Act , it is submitted that the search warrants

 in the present case are not required because the contraband substance was

 recovered from the wearing clothes of accused persons and no search or

 seizure effected from any connivance vessel or premises. Thus, this

 contention has no legal force and is liable to be ignored. 18.Ld. Addl PP for State further contended that in the present case the

 recovery of contraband was a chance recovery and Section 50 of NDPS

 Act cannot be invoked as held in case State of Punjab Vs Baldev Singh (1999) 6 SCC 172, the Apex Court held in para 57 that when an

 empowered officer or a duty authorized officer acting on prior

 information is about to search a person, it is imperative for him to inform

 the person concerned for his legal right under Sub Section(1) of Section

 50 of NDPS Act of being taken to the nearest Gazetted Officer of a

 Magistrate for making the search. It was thus submitted that in the

 present case there was no prior information to the authorised officer

 rather it was mere a chance recovery during patrolling, therefore Section

 50 of NDPS Act cannot be invoked. 19. It was further argued that at the spot the seizure of contraband substance

 was done properly and sealed the parcels and then handed over to

 SHO/PW-3 who complied with the provisions u/s 55 of NDPS Act as he

 affixed his seal on the parcels and the FSL form and put the FIR No after

 taking the same from duty officer and then he deposited the same with

 MHC(M) in the Malkhana, which reflects from the exhibited entry no

 2641 of register no 19 of Malkhana which is Ex. PW3/A. The SHO also

 had recorded a DD in this regard vide Ex.PW3/B. It was also argued that

 the report u/s 57 of NDPS Act regarding the seizure and arrest also

 prepared by SI Ali Akram who was examined as PW-4, which was

 forwarded to the ACP by SHO/PW-3. The said report has also been

 proved during trial vide carbon copy Ex. PW3/C. 20. It was submitted by Ld. Addl PP for State that the non examination of

 messenger /carrier who took the sample to FSL is not fatal to the case of

 prosecution and no way it caused prejudice to the accused as it is clearly

 reflected from the forwarding letter of FSL that the sample were

 received in the FSL in sealed and intact conditions and the seals were

 tallied with specimen seal on the FSL form, sent to FSL. It was thus

 contended that there is no room for doubt in this regard and the

 apprehension of tampering with the parcels has been completely ruled

 out. 21. Ld. Addl PP for State submitted that as regards the contention of Ld. FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 20/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 22.It was thus submitted that the case has been proved beyond reasonable

 doubt and accused person is liable to be held guilty for the offence she is

 charged with and accused person ought to be convicted. 23.Per contra, Ld. Counsel for accused submitted that there is non

 compliance of Section 50 of NDPS Act. It was further submitted that it is

 a case where circumstances of chance recovery are not made out. It was

 further submitted that the area where the apprehension of accused had

 taken place has a number of shops and residences and yet no public

 witnesses were joined in the investigation. It was further submitted that

 the area of Dargah where permanently there are people and care taker,

 however, police did not join any of the public persons as prosecution

 witnesses. It was further submitted that a perusal of testimony of PW-1 FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 21/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 24. Ordinarily, in cases under the NDPS Act arrests are made and recoveries

 are effected at the instance of a ubiquitous secret informer. However, in

 this case, the recoveries of contraband substance was effected from the

 accused by sheer chance. PW-2 W/Ct Sheetal, PW-4 ASI Satender Kumar

 and PW-6 Ct Bhagwan Sahay, all deposed in a similar vein that on

 02.04.2017, at about 08:00 AM when they were on patrolling duty and

 were standing in front of Bhure Shah Dargah, near Neela Gumbad, then

 they saw the accused coming from Lodhi Flyover side and after seeing

 the police party, the accused started retracing her steps. Since her

 movement seems suspicious, she was signaled to stop but she did not pay FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 23/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: heed and started walking quickly. Thereafter, the above witnesses chased

 her and apprehended her. The accused was carrying a black colour bag

 (thaila) which was containing contraband item. 25. The contention of Ld. Counsel for the accused that no public witnesses

 were joined nor notice to any public witness was given to join the

 proceedings, cannot be countenanced. Significantly, in this context, it

 would be useful to peruse the following extracts of Ajmer Singh v State

 of Haryana (2010) 3 SCC 746: Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 26.Thus, the testimony of police witnesses cannot be disregarded merely on

 account of non joining of public witnesses.

B. COMPLIANCE OF SECTION 55 OF THE NDPS ACT BY THE SHO 27.At this juncture, it would be apt to refer to Section 55 of the NDPS Act: 28.In the present case, PW-6 HC Baghwan Sahay deposed in his

 examination in chief dated 23.11.2022 that the IO had prepared the rukka

 and had given the same to him alongwith two sealed parcels and copy of

 seizure memo and had sent him to the police station for registration of

 FIR with direction to hand over rukka to Duty officer and remaining

 articles to the SHO. This witness categorically deposed that the parcels

 were handed over to the SHO with copy of seizure memo. He also stated

 that the IO prepared FSL form at the spot which was also given to him

 and he handed over the same to the SHO Inspector Jarnail Singh. 29.Further, Inspector Jarnail Singh, Officer Incharge of PS H.N Din was

 examined as PW-3. He categorically deposed that on 02.04.2017 at about

 10:55 AM, PW-6 Ct Bhagwan Sahay produced before him two sealed

 pullandas, both duly sealed with seal of SK and having mark S and R FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 25/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 30. Thus, as is evident from the above deposition the prosecution evidence

 clearly discloses that the sealed articles were produced before Officer

 Incharge of the police station, that he had put his seal over those articles

 and there were sent for safe custody. Thus, there is due compliance of Section 55 of NDPS Act in terms of Ashok Kumar Vs State of

 Haryana AIR 2000 SC 3474

C. REPORT UNDER SECTION 57 OF NDPS ACT 31.It would be apposite to refer to Section 57 of the Act, which is

 reproduced hereunder: 32.The legislative intent behind Section 57 of the Act, has been delved upon

 in Megha Ram v State of Rajasthan 1997 Cri LJ 3091 in the following

 words: 33.PW- 3 Inspector Jarnail Singh had deposed that PW-5 SI Ali Akram had

 got forwarded from him a notice u/s 57 of NDPS Act. PW-3 proved the FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 27/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 36.The safeguards mentioned in Section 50 are intended to serve a dual

 purpose- to protect a person against false accusation and frivolous FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 28/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 37.In the present case, Ld. Addl PP for State had contended that the present

 case was not one where compliance of Section 50 of NDPS Act was

 mandatory. In the present case, a perusal of testimonies of PW-2 W/Ct

 Sheetal, PW-4 ASI Satender Kumar and PW-6 HC Bhagwan Sahay

 would reveal that they were on patrolling duty when they happened to

 apprehend the accused. It was not a case where prior information was

 received that the accused was carrying contraband items. Thus, the case Sachin Arora (supra) and Babu Khan (supra) relied by Ld. Counsel

 for accused are inapplicable in the present case inasmuch as those cases

 emanate from a scenario where the police officers had prior information,

 which is not so in the present case. Ld. Addl PP for State had correctly

 placed reliance on Baldev Singh (surpa). In this context, it would be apt

 to reproduce the following extracts of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 Dayalu Kashyap Vs State of Chattishgarh 2022 SCC Online SC 334

 wherein it was held as thus: Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 38.Significantly, the law qua compliance of Section 50 NDPS Act in cases

 of chance recovery is no longer res integra. It was laid down in Jagjeet

 Singh Vs State (2015 )219 DLT 199 as thus: It is true that the respondent behaved in a suspicious
 manner which resulted in his personal search being
 conducted after he disembarked from the bus. However,
 there is no evidence to suggest that before he was asked to
 alight from the bus, the police officers were aware that he
 was carrying a narcotic drug, even though that area may
 be one where such drugs are easily available. At best, it
 could be said that the police officers suspected the
 respondent of carrying drugs and nothing more. Mere
 suspicion, even if it is "positive suspicion" or grave
 suspicion cannot be equated with "reason to believe".
 These are two completely different concepts. It is this
 positive suspicion, and not any reason to believe, that led
 to the chance recovery of charas from the person of
 respondent. Similarly, the positive suspicion entertained
 by the police officers cannot be equated with prior
 information. The procedure to be followed when there is
 prior information of the carrying of contraband drugs is laid down in the NDPS Act and it is nobody's case that
 that procedure was followed, let alone contemplated.
 Applying this to the facts herein, it is clear that the
 police officers were looking for passengers who were
 travelling ticketless on the bus in question on the
 highway and nothing more. They accidentally or
 unexpectedly came across drugs carried by a
 passenger (the respondent). This can only be described
 a recovery by chance, since they were neither looking
 for drugs nor expecting to find drugs carried by
 anybody. In view of Baldev Singh, it was not necessary
 for the police officers to comply with the provisions of Section 50 of the Act. As such, the appeal was allowed. 39.Further, Ld. Counsel for accused contended that in notice u/s 50 NDPS FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 31/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 40. Per contra, Ld. Addl PP for State submitted that there is sufficient

 evidence on record regarding compliance of Section 50 NDPS Act in the

 form of original notice u/s 50 of NDPS Act ie Ex.PW2/F It was further

 contended that a careful perusal of Ex.PW2/F would reveal that FIR No.

 has been endorsed there on in pen ie after preparation of the carbon copy,

 indicating that the FIR was written after the notice was served. 41.At this juncture,to put to rest the issue of endorsing FIR Number on the

 spot memos it would be apt to peruse the following extracts of Ramesh

 Kumar Rajput Vs State (NCT of Delhi ) 2008 SCC Online Del 1658

 wherein it was observed as thus: Also, there is merit in the contention of the Respondent
 that there was no specific question put to the officers
 concerned in their cross- examination. What the counsel
 for the accused appears to have been done is to ask the
 witness whether the portion of the document from "point
 A to A" (which included the portion containing the FIR
 number) was written at the same time. This might be
 intelligent cross examination but if the defence wants to
 prove that the FIR number was in fact written at a later
 point in time the witness ought to have been asked that
 question. The failure to elicit any answer from the
 witnesses on this point can only indicate that the defence
 may have been inconvenienced by the possible answer
 that might have been given by the witness or that the
 witness may have explained that the writing of the FIR
 number was only for cross verification of the details and
 therefore the FIR number was written at a subsequent
 point in time." 42. In Bilal Ahmed Vs State 2011 SCC Online Del 165, the Court laid

 down as thus: Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 43.Thus, it cannot be gainsaid that there was compliance of Section 50 NDPS Act, even though the same was not mandatory as this was a case of

 chance recovery. E. DEPOSIT OF EXHIBITS IN FSL FOR FORENSIC EXAMINATION AND FSL

REPORT. 44.Ld. Counsel for accused had contended that the police official who had

 taken the case property from the Malkhana to the FSL was not examined

 as witness. In this regard, Ld. Addl PP for State had contended that non

 examination of this messenger was not fatal to the case of prosecution as

 the accused was unable to show any prejudice caused to her. Moreover,

 the chances of tampering also stand ruled out upon a perusal of the

 testimony of prosecution witnesses. The sanctity of chain of custody qua

 deposit of Exhibits in FSL from the Malkhana was duly proved by the

 prosecution. PW-3 Inspector Jarnail Singh deposed that he had got

 deposited the case property in the Malkhana register vide serial no 2641

 dated 02.04.2017, and he proved the entry thereof as Ex. PW3/A bearing

 his signatures at point A. He further averred that he recorded DD No 15

 at 11:30 AM dated 02.04.2017 regarding receiving of case property and

 its deposition in Malkhana, copy of which was Ex. PW3/B. Thereafter, SI

 Ali Akram who was the 2nd IO was examined as PW-5 and he deposed

 that he sent the sample pullanda of the case to FSL and obtained FSL FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 34/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 45. The receipt of the case property in FSL was proved by PW-1 Sh. Jitender

 Kumar, Senior Scientific Officer, (Chemistry) FSL, Rohini. The FSL

 report Ex PW1/A was also proved by him. The said witness deposed that

 on 12.04.2017, case property of this case in sealed pullanda was received

 in his office and it was marked to him for examination and report. He

 examined the exhibit after checking and comparing the seal which was

 found as per record. The witness unequivocally stated that on physical

 chemical, TLC and GC-MS examinations, the Exhibit mark S1 was found

 to be ganja (cannabis) and his report in this regard was proved as Ex.

 PW1/A bearing his signatures at point-A on each page alongwith his

 sample seal impression at point B. During testimony of this witness, the

 MHC(M) had produced the case property which was having the seal of

 JK FSL Delhi, and opening the same, it was found containing torn cloth

 parcel with seal impression SK and JS. Even the prosecution witnesses

 had identified the case property during its production before Court. Thus,

 the factum of contraband item being ganja was cogently established by

 this witness. F. FAILURE TO EXPLAIN CIRCUMSTANCES APPEARING AGAINST THE
ACCUSED FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 36/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 46.It was contended by the State that the accused did not avail the

 opportunity to explain the circumstances appearing in the evidence

 against her, and only put forth a mere bare denial or replied to the

 accusations by merely stating that 'it is incorrect'. She could not explain

 recovery of contraband items from her. The accused did not even put

 forth a plea of alibi. She only averred in her defence that one Mr

 Alauddin and one Mr Saleem who were the sons in law of Sharafat

 (known drug dealers of H.N Din) came to encroach upon the land, a

 couple of days before when she was implicated in the present case. She

 further deposed that the said jhuggi was duly alloted to her by the Govt of

 Delhi and that the above drug peddlers wanted to put their own jhuggis at

 the said place. She further deposed that there were around 10 persons and

 that they had demolished her jhuggi when she tried to stop them. It was

 further averred by accused that they did not stop and she alongwith her

 husband were beaten by them. She further stated that she received

 injuries on her head. It was also deposed that somebody had dialed 100

 number call to police and police had also come at that place, however, no

 action was taken against Allaudin and Saleem. She further deposed that

 both of them were very influential persons of the area and that her

 husband was taken to police station. She further stated that she was not

 able to go to police stations as she had four children to look after. She

 further deposed that one police person had visited her demolished jhuggi FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 37/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 47. The fact of the matter is that contraband substance were recovered from

 the body of the accused for which the accused had no cogent justification.

 There is a presumption u/s 54 of the NDPS Act which lays down that in

 trials under the NDPS Act , it may be presumed that the accused has

 committed an offence, unless and until the contrary is proved. The

 expression' unless and until the contrary is proved', clearly imposes the

 burden of proving that possession of prohibited substance is legal, or that

 she was not so found in possession, is on the accused herself. In this case,

 neither the presumption could be rebutted, nor could the accused explain

 the circumstances appearing in evidence against her. 48.Furthermore, u/s 35 of NDPS Act , the Court shall presume the existence

 of a culpable mental state on the part of the accused, and it is incumbent

 upon the accused to prove the fact that she had no such mental state with

 respect to the act. It has further been clarified in Section 35(2) that the

 accused has to prove the above, beyond reasonable doubt and not merely FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 38/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 49. Furthermore, nothing could be elicited in the testimony of the prosecution

 witnesses, and nothing therein could be controverted by the accused. On

 the other hand, the defence witnesses adduced by the accused did not

 negate the case of the prosecution nor did they provide any alibi qua the

 accused. The veracity of the testimony of the prosecution witnesses was

 cogent and credible, and complete reliance can be placed upon them. In

 this context, it would be pertinent to reproduce the following extracts of Jagjeet Singh Vs State (2015 )219 DLT 199

 "All these witnesses were subjected to lengthy cross-
 examination, however, nothing material could be
 elicited to discredit their testimony. It has further
 come in their statements that some independent
 persons were tried to be joined, however, none
 agreed. Ordinarily, the public at large show their
 disinclination to come forward to become the
 witness. If the testimony of the police officer is
 found to be reliable and trustworthy, the Court can
 definitely act upon the same. The Court cannot
 disbelieve the testimony of police officials solely on
 the presumption that a witness from the department
 of police should be viewed with distrust. This is also
 based on the principle that quality of the evidence
 weights over the quantity of evidence. These aspects
 have been highlighted in State of UP v. Anil Singh ,
 1989 SCC (Cri) 48; State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) v.
 Sunil , 2001 SCC (Cri) 248; Ramjee Rai v. State of
 Bihar , (2007) 2 SCC (Cri) 626; Kashmirilal v. State
 of Haryana, (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 441. Appreciating
 the evidence on record on the anvil of the aforesaid
 principles, there is no acceptable reason to discard FIR No.59/2017 State Vs. Mobina @ Mobia Page No. 39/41 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 50.Ergo, in view of the reasons hereinabove discussed in extenso, this Court

 is of the considered view that the prosecution has proved beyond

 reasonable doubt that the accused Mobina @ Mobia was found in

 possession of 2.400Kg Ganja, near Bhure Shah Darghah, Neela

 Gumbad, Dr Zakir Hussain Marg, Nizamuddin, New Delhi, within the

 jurisdiction of PS Hazrat Nizamuddin, and is therefore convicted for the

 offence punishable under Section 20 (b) (ii) (B) of NDPS Act. 51. After complying with the provisions of Section 40 of the NDPS Act, the

 name and place of business and residence of the convict, nature of the

 contravention, the factum of the accused being convicted, be published in

 two English and two Vernacular newspapers and in news websites.

 Accordingly, copy of this order be sent to the DCP, to do the needful. 52.Put for arguments on quantum of sentence on 19.09.2023

Announced in the open court Digitally
 signed by
 on 11.09.2023 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: