SANDEEP MOUDGIL, J

 This appeal has been filed against the judgment dated

01.09.2021 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge, Patiala (for short

'Trial Court'), whereby, respondents No.1 & 2 have been acquitted of the

charges framed against them under Sections 4 & 17 of the Protection of

Children From Sexual Offences Act and 376(3) read with Section 109 , 506 & 120-B IPC. Briefly stated, the present case was registered on the statement

of the appellant, who stated that she was a house wife who along with her

husband and four children, was residing in the rented house of Gagan Singh

in village Sheikhpura Kamboa. Her sister i.e. prosecutrix aged about 12

years studying in 7th class was also residing with them since her childhood. On 13.04.2019, prosecutrix told her that Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi, who was

residing in their neighbourhood, used to harass her sister as and when she

goes to school. She disclosed the said fact to her husband who got lodged a

report against Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi at Police Station Sadar, Patiala. On the

next day, with the intervention of village Panchayat, the matter was

compromised between them. On 07.05.2019 the prosecutrix felt pain in her stomach and on

enquiry the prosecutrix started crying and told that their neighbour Bharat

Tiwari @ Ravihad been committing rape upon her for the last about 3-4

months by threatening her. When she used to come back from school, he

used to take her forcibly to his house and thus committed rape upon her

six/seven times. After recording of above statement, complainant thumb

marked the same and her husband countersigned it. On the basis of this

complaint, investigation started and the prosecutrix was taken to Rajindra

Hospital. Patiala for her medical examination. Accused Bharat Tiwari @

Ravi was arrested. Medical examination of the accused was also got

conducted. The statement of prosecutrix was got recorded under Section

164 Cr.P.C in which she narrated that she and her family were on visiting

terms with family of neighbour Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi. About 3-4 months

ago, one day at about 8.00 a.m., she was going to her school on foot.

Accused Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi came there on a motorcycle and asked her as

to why she was going on foot. When she replied that her auto rickshaw had

not come to pick her up, he proposed to drop her by his motorcycle but she

did not readily agree. However, on being insisted by accused Bharat Tiwari

@ Ravi, she agreed. The accused Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi telephonically

 2 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 25-12-2022 13:19:53 ::: CRA-AD-61-2021 - 3-

called his friend Vicky who brought a car there after some time. Then Bharat

Tiwari @ Ravi parked his motorcycle there and made prosecutrix to sit in

the car. They took the car towards the plots which were in village

Sheikhpura. On being questioned, accused Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi told that he

had some work in the village, thereafter he would drop her in the school.

Thereafter, they took her in a big room in which shutter was installed. Bharat

Tiwari @ Ravi gave her a glass of water and went away. One boy namely

Johny was also there whose mobile phone was lying on the shelf of that

room. Immediately, on drinking water, she became unconscious. When she

regained consciousness at about 3.30 pm on that day, she found that Bharat

Tiwari @ Ravi was there but other two boys were not there. Then Bharat

Tiwari @ Ravi showed her a video in which he was naked and was

committing rape upon her. Then Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi threatened to make

that video viral if she disclosed the incident to anyone. Thereafter, Bharat

Tiwari @ Ravi, Vicky and Johny dropped her under the bridge of

Bahadurgarh. Prosecutrix was frightened and did not disclose about the

incident at her home. Thereafter, various times, after calling her in his house,

Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi had forcible sexual intercourse with prosecutrix by

threatening and blackmailing her with regard to said video. Two months

ago, Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi called her in a hotel and told her that he would

delete the entire video, but did not do so. Then on 13th-14th May, she

disclosed about the said incident to her parents as she could not bear the pain

anymore. On the basis of statement of prosecutrix, accused Johny and Vicky

were nominated in the present case and offence under Section 120-B IPC

was added. After completion of investigation, final report under Section

 3 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 25-12-2022 13:19:53 ::: CRA-AD-61-2021 - 4-

173 Cr.P.C . was submitted against the accused. Initially the accused were charge-sheeted for the commission of

offence punishable under Sections 120-B, 376 (N) read with Section 120-B

and Section 506 IPC on 14.08.2019. However, later on vide amended

charge sheet Section 120-B IPC and Sections 4 & 17 of the Protection of

Children From Sexual Offences Act or in the alternative under Section

376(3) read with Section 109 , 506 & 120-B IPC were added, vide order

dated 27.08.2021 to which accused-respondents pleaded not guilty and

claimed trial. Prosecution, to prove the charge against accused, examined as

many as 10 witnesses including the victim and the doctor who medico-

legally examined the prosecutrix, produced material documents and objects,

which were exhibited. While recording the statement of accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C., they denied all the allegations and pleaded false implication and

claimed innocence. Learned trial Court vide judgment dated 02.09.2021 convicted

accused Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi only under Section 6 of POCSO Act and Section 376(3) IPC for rigorous imprisonment of 20 years with fine of

Rs.50,000/- but acquitted Vicky-respondent No.1 and Jujhar Singh @ Johny-

respondent No.2 of the charges framed against them,

 Present appeal has been filed by the complainant challenging

the acquittal of respondents No.1 & 2. It is worth noticing here that against the judgment of conviction

and order of sentence, accused Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi has filed appeal No.

CRA-D-616-2021, which stands admitted. Counsel for the appellant submits that qua respondents No.1 &

2, the trial Court erroneously passed the said judgment without discussing

the factual position. There is a cogent and reliable evidence on the record

that respondents No.1 & 2 were the accomplices in conspiracy to the

commission of the offence. The compromise (Mark B-1) bears the signatures

of respondent No.2 as a witness which belies the stand taken by respondents

that they had no acquaintance with accused Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi. It is asserted that a white car was brought by accused Vicky

who drove the victim to the shop of Johny., It was Johny who put the shutter

down, after entry of the said car. They were very much present on the spot at

the time of commission of rape by Bharat Tiwari @ Ravi. So, the factum of

conspiracy by respondents No.1 & 2 by aiding the main accused is very

much proved on record, which has been wrongly discarded by the learned

trial Court on the premise that they were not named in the first version given

by the complainant. It is further asserted that a detailed statement cannot be

said to be an improvement of the earlier version. The impugned judgment is

against principles of Criminal jurisprudence as the learned trial Court while

passing the judgment has not appreciated the legal and factual position in

right perspective in view of the evidence having been recorded. We have considered the submissions made by the learned

counsel for the appellant and with his assistance, have gone through the

judgment passed by the trial Court, but are not able to accept his assertions. Before adverting to the facts of the case, it would be worthwhile

to refer to the scope in acquittal appeals. It is well settled in catena of

decisions that an Appellate Court has full power to review, re-appreciate and

consider the evidence upon which the order of acquittal is founded. However, the Appellate Court must bear in mind that in case of acquittal,

there is prejudice in favour of the accused, firstly, the presumption of

innocence is available to him under the Fundamental Principle of Criminal

Jurisprudence that every person shall be presumed to be innocent unless he

is proved guilty by a competent Court of Law. Secondly, the accused having

secured his acquittal, the presumption of his innocence is further reaffirmed

and strengthened by the trial Court. From the evidence, it is clear that complainant was confronted

with her previous statement Ex.PW-5/1 in which she had not attributed any

role to respondents No.1 & 2 and this very fact has been admitted before the

learned Trial Court. She also admitted that she had disclosed the facts

containing allegations against respondents No.1 & 2 for the first time in the

Court but she did not give any explanation for their omission. So, the

improvement made by her was taken very rightly as material one. Even the

victim in her first statement given to police on 07.05.2019 (Mark DA) had

not named either respondent No.1 or respondent No.2. The Investigating

Officer (PW-9) admitted that prosecutrix had not raised any allegation

against respondents No.1 & 2. Not only that, the prosecutrix while appearing

in the Court had disowned her supplementary statement dated 09.05.2019

which allegedly contained names of respondents No.1 & 2. The car allegedly

used in the commission of crime was never taken into possession by the

police. No details of the car were ever brought on record. Even the

investigating officer admitted that no connection of accused with the

vehicles involved in the present case was established. Learned trial Court has further observed that no document was

brought on record to establish if respondent No.2 had any connection with

 6 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 25-12-2022 13:19:53 ::: CRA-AD-61-2021 - 7-

the shop, the place where rape was allegedly committed. No evidence has

been adduced with regard to mobile phone allegedly used by respondent

No.3 . We, on a scientific examination of evidence and chronological

discussion of factual aspects, are convinced to upheld the judgment dated

01.09.2021 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Patiala as the

prosecution story stands derailed in totality against the respondents-accused

who have been rightly acquitted of the charges under Sections 4 & 17 of the

Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act and 376 (3) read with

Section 109, 506, & 120-B IPC framed against them. In the view of the facts and circumstances as considered and

discussed hereinabove, the present appeal being devoid of any merit is

dismissed.