Heard Ms. Neelam Pandey, learned counsel for the accused/applicant as well as learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the record. This bail application has been moved by the accused/applicant- Mushtaque Khan for grant of bail, in Case Crime No. 87/2-22, under Sections 306 , 386 , 419 , 120-B / 34 IPC and Sections 66-D , 66-E Information Technology Act, P.S. Mahrajganj, Tarai, District Balrampur, during trial. Learned counsel for the accused-applicant while pressing the bail application submits that the accused-applicant has falsely been implicated in the instant case. He was not named in the FIR and the complicity of the applicant has been shown to have occurred during the course of investigation to the tune that the instant applicant as well as co-accused Shahrukh are member of the gang which used to blackmail innocent persons and with regard to the deceased an obscene call was made to him and thereafter screen shot of the same was sent to him and after blackmailing him on this score some money was also extracted and humiliating by the same the deceased has committed suicide. It is vehemently submitted by learned counsel for the applicant that story as cooked up by the prosecution is highly doubtful and could not be believed and there is no credible evidence which may suggest that the applicant is a member of any such gang. Moreover the money, as per the First Information Report has been sent in the bank account of some other persons and the applicant is not connected with the same and there is no nexus or direct link between any act and omission of the applicant with the commission of suicide by the deceased. The applicant is in jail in this case since 06.01.2023 and he is not having any criminal antecedent. Charge sheet in the matter has already been filed. There is no apprehension that the accused-applicant after release on bail, may flee from the process of law or may otherwise misuse the liberty. Identically placed co-accused Shahrukh has been granted bail by a Coordinate Bench of this Court, vide order dated 23.3.2023 passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 3083 of 2023. Learned A.G.A., however, opposes the prayer for bail but could not dispute the other factual submissions made by the learned counsel for the accused-applicant. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and having perused the record, it is evident that the applicant was not named in the FIR and his complicity is shown to have reflected during the investigation and he has been shown member of the gang who had duped innocent persons by blackmailing them and in the case of the deceased an obscene video call was made and after clicking a screen shot by the deceased he was blackmailed and money was extracted from him and feeling humiliated he had committed suicide. The FIR suggests that money has been transferred in the bank account of some other persons and no money has been received at all by the applicant or by co-accused person, namely, Shahrukh. Identically placed co-accused person, namely, Shahrukh has been granted bail by a Coordinate Bench of this Court. The role of the applicant is at par with him. The applicant is in jail in this case since 06.01.2023 and he is not having any criminal antecedent. His presence may be secured before the trial court by placing adequate conditions. Keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence, complicity of the accused, severity of punishment, submissions of the learned counsel for the parties and without expressing any opinion on the merits and demerits of the case, I am of the considered view that applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed. Let the applicant- Mushtaque Khan involved in the aforesaid case be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond with two sureties in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions:- In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. Identity, status and residence proof of the applicant and sureties be verified by the court concerned before the bonds are accepted. Observations made herein-above are only for the purpose of disposal of bail application and the same shall not have any bearing on the trial of the case. Order Date :- 4.8.2023
 
Muk