4) The name & parentage of accused: Rajan S/o Late Sh. Munna Lal 5) Offence complained of : u/s 33/38 Delhi Excise
 Act 6) The plea of accused : Pleaded not guilty 7) Final order : Acquitted

 Date of Institution : 25.10.2016
 Judgment reserved on : 30.09.2024
 Judgment announced on : 29.10.2024

 THE BRIEF REASONS FOR THE JUDGMENT: 2) After completion of investigation, chargesheet was filed in the court
 on 25.10.2016 and Ld. Predecessor of this court on the same date itself took FIR No. 397/2016 State Vs Rajan (Page no. 1 of 9)
 cognizance of the offences u/s 33 / 38 Delhi Excise Act against the accused
 and after complying with the provisions of Sec. 207 Cr.PC, arguments on
 charge were heard. Vide order dated 13.01.2017, charge was framed u/s
 33 / 38 Delhi Excise Act against the accused by the Ld. Predecessor of this
 court to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Thereafter, the case
GARIMA
 was proceeded for prosecution evidence. 3) In support of its case, the prosecution examined seven witnesses.
Digitally
signed by
GARIMA
Date: PW-1/ASI Angad Singh is a formal witness being the duty officer
2024.10.29 who proved the registration of the present FIR. The witness was cross
12:55:07
+0530 examined as nil, despite opportunity. PW-2/ Ct. Sombir is an important witness who was on patrolling duty
 on the date of incident. He deposed that on 02.09.2016, while he was on
 patrolling duty and reached near Laxmi Narayan Mandir, Lal Bagh, Azadpur,
 Delhi, in front of house no. N9/A-607, Lal Bagh, Azadpur, Delhi, he saw
 accused who was carrying a pitthu bag and upon checking the same, found
 illicit liquor in the bag. Thereafter, he informed the same and IO/HC Ram
 Niwas came to the spot, seized the case property, arrested the accused, got
 him medically examined and conducted further investigation. The witness
 was duly cross examined by the Ld. Defence counsel. The material facts that
 emerged during the same, shall be dealt with hereinunder. PW-3/HC Vinod is a formal witness who deposited the case property
 to excise office. The witness was duly cross examined by the Ld. Defence
 counsel. The material facts that emerged during the same, shall be dealt with
 hereinunder. PW-4/ASI Satender is again a formal witness being the MHC(M) CP
 and has only proved the deposition of case property with him and handing
 over the same to the concerned official for onward deposition in excise
 office. The witness was duly cross examined by the Ld. Defence counsel.
 The material facts that emerged during the same, shall be dealt with FIR No. 397/2016 State Vs Rajan (Page no. 2 of 9)
 hereinunder. PW-5/ASI Ramniwas is also an important witness who accompanied
 the IO during the investigation of the present case. He deposed that on
 02.09.2016, after receipt of DD entry no. 43A, he alongwith Ct. Gajender
GARIMA went to the spot where PW-2/Ct. Sombir was present who had already
 apprehended the accused and he then handed over the bag and the accused to
 them. Thereafter, he recorded the statement of PW-2, prepared the tehrir and
 got the FIR registered through Ct. Gajender, prepared the site plan, arrested
Digitally and personally searched the accused, recorded his disclosure statement, got
signed by
GARIMA the accused medically examined and sent him to JC, recorded the statements
Date: of the witnesses u/s 161 of Cr.PC and after completion of other investigation,
2024.10.29 prepared the charge sheet and filed the same before the court. The witness
12:55:12
+0530 was duly cross examined by the Ld. Defence counsel. The material facts that
 emerged during the same, shall be dealt with hereinunder. PW-6/ HC Gajender is also an important witness who accompanied
 PW-5/IO to the spot and deposed on exactly similar lines of PW-5. The
 witness was duly cross examined by the Ld. Defence counsel. The material
 facts that emerged during the same, shall be dealt with hereinunder. PW-7/HC Sandeep is a formal witness being the DD writer. The
 witness was duly cross examined by the Ld. Defence counsel. The material
 facts that emerged during the same, shall be dealt with hereinunder. 9) Thereafter, the prosecution evidence was closed on 08.07.2024 and
 on the same day, statement of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C was recorded wherein
 he submitted that he has been falsely implicated in the present case. On the
 date of incident, he had an altercation with one Ct. Somvir who was beat
 constable of the area and after getting infuriated, he implicated him in the
 present false case as he told him that illicit liquor is being sold everywhere in
 the area and is easily accessible. Accused further stated that he does not wish
 to lead DE, hence DE was closed. Thereafter, the matter was fixed for final
 arguments. have been carefully heard and the record have been perused. GARIMA 12) It is fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that an accused
 is presumed to be innocent and therefore, the burden lies on the prosecution
 to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. The general
 burden of establishing the guilt of accused is always on the prosecution and
Digitally
signed by it never shifts. GARIMA
Date: The words "for the possession of which he is unable to account
 satisfactorily" used in Section 52(1) of the Delhi Excise Act clearly reveal FIR No. 397/2016 State Vs Rajan (Page no. 4 of 9)
 that as a pre-requisite for the presumption under the aforesaid provision
 being raised against the accused, it is imperative for the prosecution to
 successfully establish the recovery of the said alleged articles from the
 possession of the accused. It is only after the prosecution has proved the
GARIMA possession of the alleged articles by the accused, then the accused can be
 called upon to account for the same. However, for the reasons mentioned
 hereinafter the prosecution has failed to establish beyond reasonable doubt
 that the accused was found in possession of the alleged illicit liquor.
 Digitally Accordingly, no presumption as provided for under Section 52 of the Delhi
 signed by Excise Act can be raised against the accused in the present case.
 GARIMA
 Date: Also there is no explanation from the side of IO as to why he did not record
 the excuses given by the passersby who were requested to join the police
 proceedings. At this juncture, it would be pertinent to refer to some case
 laws. 16) In a case law reported as " Roop Chand Vs. The State of Haryana ",
 1999(1) C.L.R 69, the Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court held as under: GARIMA 19.) This court is mindful of the fact that the place of incident is a densely
 populated area and a public place, so it must have been equipped with CCTV
 Cameras however, no CCTV footage was procured by the IO. Upon being
Digitally specifically asked, PW-5/ ASI Ram Niwas deposed that no videography/
signed by
GARIMA photography of the spot was done by them. By taking resort to the
Date: illustration (g) appended to section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, it can
2024.10.29 very well be presumed that had the CCTV Footage, brough on record, it
12:55:31
+0530 would have been unfavourable to the version of the prosecution. Moreover, it is the case of the prosecution that the case property was
 recovered from the possession of the accused which he was carrying in a
 pithu bag. However, neither the said pithu bag was seized by the IO nor
 made a case propety in the present case, which further creates a doubt over
 the case of the prosecution. Moreover, upon being specifically asked about
 the color of the said bag, both PW-5 and PW-6, have remained failed to
 disclose the same, which creates a strong suspicion over the recovery of any
 such bag, at all, because, had it been so, the witnesses would have remember
 the color of the same by their heart. The general principles of criminal jurisprudence that the prosecution
 has to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and that the accused is entitled
 to the benefit of a reasonable doubt, are to be borne in mind. All the lapses
 in investigation, discussed herein above creates a doubt on the very recovery
 of illicit liquour without permit or legal license from the possession of
 accused. The lapses are material one and cannot be ignored. It is settled
 proposition of law that if the investigation suffers from taint then the entire
 prosecution case becomes open to serious doubts and challenges. The
 material is insufficient to record a finding of guilt of the accused. All the
 above mentioned facts and circumstances shrouds clouds of suspicion over FIR No. 397/2016 State Vs Rajan (Page no. 8 of 9)
 the prosecution version. 20) Thus, this court is of the considered view that the benefit of doubt in
the present case be given to the accused and he is entitled to be exonerated of
the charges against him in the present case. Thus, accused Rajan S/o Late Sh.
Munna Lal is hereby acquitted of the offence punishable under Section 33 / 38 Delhi Excise Act. Announced in open court
on 29th October, 2024
 (Garima Jindal)
 Judicial Magistrate First Class-06
 North District
 Rohini Courts,Delhi

 Digitally
 signed by
 GARIMA
 GARIMA Date: