1. The present bail application has been filed by the applicant
 under Section 483 of the Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023
 (hereinafter referred to as "BNSS"). By this application, the
 applicant seeks his release on regular bail in connection with
 Crime Register No. 13 of 2025 registered with DCB CID, Unit-12,
 Dahisar (originally registered as Crime Register No.126 of 2025
 with Borivali Police Station, Mumbai). The offences alleged against
 the applicant are punishable under Sections 316(2), 318(4),
 111(2)(B), 111(3)(4)(6)(7), 3(5) of the Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita,
 2023 (hereinafter referred to as "BNS"). ba2581-2025-Final.doc 2. As per the case of the prosecution, secret information was
 received regarding illegal activities relating to supply of drugs, e-
 cigarettes, as well as running of a fraudulent call centre. The
 complainant along with other police officials was informed of the
 same. Later, at about 11.00 p.m., they were further briefed about a
 raid to be conducted at a call centre situated on the third floor of
 Aparna Apartments, Amarkant Jha Marg, Borivali (West), where
 construction activity was still ongoing. The information disclosed
 that a scam was being operated targeting American citizens,
 wherein they were deceived under the pretext of resolving
 computer-related problems, and thereafter their bank account
 details were obtained by hacking and cheating. 3. Acting on this information, at about 12.55 a.m., a raiding
 team consisting of two panch witnesses and a cyber expert
 conducted a raid at the said premises. At that time, the applicant
 ApplicantSanjay Joshi opened the door and informed that he was
 running the call centre. On being apprised about the purpose of
 the raid, the police team was allowed to enter. During inquiry,
 Applicantdisclosed that the call centre was being operated by him
 along with one Akshad Surana and Abhishek Gupta. Several
 persons were found present in different cabins. Thirteen persons in
 all disclosed their names and addresses. Out of them, ten persons
 had joined duties about 8 to 10 days earlier for training purposes.
 It was revealed that the applicant Applicant, along with Akshad
 Surana and Abhishek Sharma, had engaged them as tele-callers,
 provided them with mobile phones, and instructed them in their
 work. These persons were directed to remain present before the 2 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc

 police at 10.00 a.m. on 22nd February 2025. 4. During the raid, the police arrested four persons namely,
 Applicant (owner), Amit Sanjay Kas Reddy (closure), Jeevan Anil
 Nawadkar (team leader) and Pratham Sanjay Sonawane (team
 leader). Their mobile phones were seized and 22 laptops used in
 the operation were also taken into custody. The police noticed that
 calls were being made by using applications such as Text+ and
 Text Now. Two routers and TP Link devices were installed for Wi-
 Fi connectivity. On being questioned, Applicant failed to produce
 any license for operating the call centre. He further revealed that
 American citizens were targeted through Google Select by
 generating pop-up messages about alleged problems in their
 laptops. The victims were made to believe that they were speaking
 to Microsoft representatives through applications such as Ultra
 Viewer and Eyebeam. Thereafter, access to their laptops was
 obtained and they were falsely threatened about downloading
 pornographic content. To instill fear, they were later contacted
 through the Text+ application and compelled to purchase gift
 cards. 5. During inquiry, Applicant disclosed that the premises
 belonged to one Deepan Suresh Dhanwani and was taken on rent
 from him. The ten female staff members present in the office were
 served with notice to remain present before the Crime Branch on
 22nd February 2025, and were allowed to leave. Video recording
 of the premises and panchanama was duly conducted. Thereafter,
 crime came to be registered and four accused persons including
 the present applicant, who was functioning as a Team Leader, were 3 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc

 taken into custody. On this basis, the FIR was lodged. 6. Mr. Pasbola, learned Senior Advocate on behalf of the
 applicant submitted that the applicant is not owner of the Call
 Centre. However, he has been arrested based on suspicion. He
 submitted that the prosecution has not received any complaint
 from victim in respect of cheating. There is nothing on record to
 suggest that the applicant is beneficiary of any scam or tempted
 money from the persons who have been allegedly duped. No
 statement of any victim has been recorded by the Investigating
 Agency. 7. He further submitted that the applicant has not been served
 with the grounds of arrest under Section 47 of the BNSS. He
 further submitted that on 19 April 2025 the applicant was
 produced before the Court when accused was not summoned by
 any Court or production warrant was issued by the Court.
 However, at that time the Investigating Officer sought to obtain
 signature on some paper outside Court. However, the applicant
 refused to sign on the said paper. Later on, the Investigating
 Officer produced some paper showing compliance of Section 47
 apparently having signature of the applicant. However, the
 applicant has denied that he has signed such paper. The Sessions
 Court has issued show-cause notice to the Jail Superintendent in
 that respect. Inviting my attention o the signature of the applicant
 on arrest panchnama, he submitted that the signature on the
 document showing compliance under Section 47 of the BNSS
 differs with the signature of the applicant on arrest panchnama.
 Though the name of applicant's mother was mentioned in the 4 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc

 arrest panchnama as a person to whom intimation is to be given,
 the intimation appears to have been given to one Chandani Rana,
 which is subsequently prepared by the prosecution. 8. Inviting my attention to the order dated 22 February 2025
 granting applicant remand to the police custody extended till 24
 February 2025, he submitted that the mention regarding
 communication of grounds of arrest in the said order has been
 mechanically included, as perusal of the said order indicates that
 certain portions in the order are written in hand which shows that
 the order was cyclostyled and details regarding time of production
 of the accused and grounds mentioned for police custody have
 been inserted. He, therefore, submitted that the application
 deserves to be released on bail. 9. Per contra, Ms. Mahalaxmi Ganapaty, learned APP, strongly
 opposed the application for bail. She submitted that reliable
 confidential information was received by the police that at Aparna
 Apartment, 3rd Floor, Amarkant Jha Marg, the present applicant
 (described as the owner) along with co-accused Amir Sanjay Kas
 Reddy (closure) and others were engaged in running a fraudulent
 call centre. Their modus operandi was to send pop-up messages to
 unsuspecting persons, particularly American citizens, by making it
 appear that their computer or laptop system had developed some
 technical issue. Once the victim responded and called the toll-free
 number through the "Eyebeam Application," one of the attendants
 employed by the accused persons would impersonate as an
 employee of Microsoft Company. Thereafter, the victim was
 instructed to download and use the "Ultra Viewer Application," 10. Learned APP further submitted that during the course of
 investigation, it was revealed that the present applicant was the
 owner of the call centre. The Leave and License Agreement of the
 premises where the call centre was being run was found to be in
 the name of the applicant. The statement of the landlord, Shri
 Dipen Suresh Dhanwani, was also recorded wherein he confirmed
 that the premises had been given on leave and license to the
 present applicant. During investigation, the mobile phone
 belonging to the applicant was seized under a panchnama dated
 23.02.2025, and the data contained therein including chats and
 screenshots was extracted and printed in the presence of two
 panch witnesses. 11. It was further submitted that upon examining the laptops
 and mobiles seized from the premises, several fake weblinks were
 discovered which contained personal details of American citizens,
 such as their names, mobile numbers and email IDs. The data
 extracted from the laptops revealed calling details of customers, 6 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc

 while the call log details of an Apple iPhone were also retrieved. In
 addition, certain chats and other incriminating material were
 found stored in the laptops seized during the raid. 12. With respect to the contention of the applicant regarding
 non-compliance of Section 47 of the BNSS, the learned APP
 submitted that the applicant was arrested on 22.02.2025 strictly in
 accordance with law. The requisite notice under Section 47, setting
 out the grounds of arrest, was duly given to him and bears the
 signature of the applicant. The information of his arrest was also
 promptly communicated to his relatives. Before the arrest, the
 applicant was informed about the reasons for his arrest as well as
 his legal rights, and the arrest form was filled up in the presence of
 two independent panchas bearing the signature and thumb
 impression of the applicant. 13. After the arrest, the applicant was produced before the
 learned Magistrate. The requisite information under Section 35(1) (b) of the BNSS was also submitted before the learned Magistrate.
 Upon being satisfied that the checklist was duly complied with,
 and that the grounds of arrest were communicated to the applicant
 and intimation of his arrest was given to his relatives, the learned
 Magistrate remanded the applicant to police custody till
 24.02.2025. The Remand Application, setting out the details of the
 offences as well as the necessity for custodial interrogation, was
 also served upon the applicant. 14. On 24.02.2025, a second Remand Application was moved
 and duly served upon the applicant. The applicant was again 7 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc

 produced before the learned Magistrate. After considering the
 material placed, and hearing both the learned Advocates for the
 State as well as for the applicant, the learned Magistrate remanded
 the applicant to magisterial custody. It is significant to note that
 during both these remand proceedings, the applicant was duly
 represented by an Advocate and had contested the grant of
 custody. However, at no point during those hearings was the issue
 of non-furnishing of grounds of arrest raised by the applicant. 15. Being dissatisfied, the applicant thereafter filed a Bail
 Application before the learned Sessions Court. For the first time in
 those proceedings, the argument regarding non-furnishing of the
 grounds of arrest was raised. The learned Sessions Court, however,
 after examining the record, came to the conclusion that there was
 due compliance with the mandate of law and that the written
 grounds of arrest were provided to the applicant. Accordingly, the
 Sessions Court rejected the Bail Application. 16. From the above sequence of events, learned APP submitted
 that it is abundantly clear that on the very date of arrest i.e.,
 22.02.2025, the grounds of arrest were communicated to the
 applicant in writing, which endorsement was acknowledged by
 him with his signature. The information about his arrest was also
 duly conveyed to his relatives and the same has been annexed to
 the record. Hence, there is complete compliance with the
 requirements of law regarding furnishing of grounds of arrest. 17. Learned APP further submitted that the applicant is not a
 first-time offender but is a habitual offender. There are in fact five 8 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc

 similar cases registered against him, three at Ahmedabad, one at
 Goa and one at Gandhinagar. 18. She further submitted that the modus operandi adopted by
 the applicant and his associates was to contact several American
 citizens, threaten them with false accusations of downloading
 pornographic material, and thereafter extort money from them in
 the form of gift cards. These gift cards were then converted into
 bitcoins and the proceeds were transferred to various other
 accounts. Having regard to the seriousness of the offence, the
 repeated nature of the crime, and the possibility of tampering with
 evidence if released, she prayed that the present application for
 bail be rejected. 19. I have carefully considered the submissions made by the
 learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant as
 well as the submissions advanced by the learned APP for the State.
 I have also perused the material placed on record including the
 panchnamas, remand orders, seizure documents and other
 investigation papers. 20. At the very beginning, it needs to be noted that the
 allegations against the applicant are neither small nor casual in
 nature. The prosecution has placed material on record which
 shows a well-planned method adopted for cheating foreign
 nationals. The plan was to run a bogus call centre, where the
 employees pretended to be executives of a reputed software
 company like Microsoft. After first gaining the trust of the victims,
 they would then create fear by falsely telling them that 9 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc pornographic material had been downloaded on their computers, and on that basis extort money from them under the guise of fixing
 the so-called problem. 21. Such allegations cannot be taken lightly, because they clearly
 show an organized pattern of crime, where each person had a
 specific role to play. It is not about one-off cheating by an
 individual, but a case where a syndicate was working in an
 organized and professional way to target foreign citizens and make
 unlawful gains. 22. The material collected during investigation supports this
 version of the prosecution. The seizure of laptops, mobile phones,
 routers and other digital devices, along with recovery of data
 containing details of American citizens, call logs and chats, prima
 facie shows that the raided premises was in fact being used for
 carrying out such fraudulent activities. On the basis of this
 evidence, the Court cannot at this stage treat the prosecution case
 as doubtful or baseless. On the contrary, it points to a prima facie
 case of organized cyber fraud with serious consequences, which
 must be kept in view while considering the request for bail. 23. The contention of the applicant that no victim complaint has
 been recorded so far cannot be a ground to discard the prosecution
 case at this stage. In offences of this nature, particularly where
 foreign nationals are duped through online frauds, the complaint
 may not always be directly forthcoming in India. The absence of a
 victim's statement at this stage does not ipso facto absolve the
 applicant when there is other circumstantial and electronic 10 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc

 evidence pointing towards his active participation. 24. The argument raised on behalf of the applicant regarding
 non-compliance of Section 47 of the BNSS also does not impress
 this Court. The material placed on record, including the arrest
 form and endorsements, clearly shows that the applicant was
 furnished with the grounds of arrest in writing and the same bears
 his signature. The arrest intimation was also duly communicated
 to his relatives. Further, the learned Magistrate, while remanding
 the applicant first to police custody and thereafter to magisterial
 custody, has specifically recorded satisfaction about the compliance
 of the legal requirements under the BNSS. It is also not in dispute
 that during both these remand proceedings, the applicant was duly
 represented by an Advocate. Despite having such legal assistance
 and an opportunity to raise all objections before the Magistrate, no
 grievance regarding non-furnishing of the grounds of arrest was
 voiced at that stage. The said objection appears to have been
 raised for the first time only during the bail proceedings, which
 creates doubt about its genuineness. 25. It is a well-settled principle that procedural irregularities, if
 any, must be raised at the earliest stage, particularly when the
 accused is produced before the Magistrate and represented by
 counsel. In the present case, not only has the applicant failed to
 raise this issue earlier, but the documents relied upon by the
 prosecution, coupled with the satisfaction recorded by the
 Magistrate, prima facie establish that the mandate of Section 47
 has been complied with. The mere allegation that the signatures
 differ or that intimation was not properly served, without any 11 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc

 supporting material, cannot be a ground to hold that the arrest
 was illegal. Such disputed questions of fact are matters of evidence
 which can be examined at the stage of trial and not in bail
 proceedings. 26. In this view of the matter, I find no substance in the
 contention of the applicant that there has been a violation of
 Section 47 of the BNSS. 27. On the contrary, the record prima facie shows that there has
 been due compliance of law and the arrest cannot be said to be
 illegal. The contention regarding variation of signatures is a matter
 of trial and cannot be adjudicated in detail in these bail
 proceedings. 28. The further material placed on record shows that the
 premises where the alleged call centre was operated were taken on
 rent by the present applicant himself under a leave and license
 agreement. The statement of the landlord corroborates this fact.
 The applicant's mobile phone has also been seized, and the
 extracted data reveals incriminating chats and communications.
 This, coupled with the seizure of laptops and fake weblinks
 containing personal details of American citizens, prima facie
 connect the applicant with the running of the fraudulent call
 centre. 29. The submission of the learned APP that the applicant is a
 habitual offender and has five other similar cases registered
 against him in different States is also a matter of concern. At this
 stage, the antecedents of the applicant cannot be lightly ignored, 12 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 ::: ba2581-2025-Final.doc

 as they reflect the likelihood of the applicant indulging in similar
 activities if released on bail. 30. Considering the seriousness of the allegations, the manner in
 which the offence is alleged to have been committed, the
 electronic evidence recovered from the premises, the applicant's
 role in securing the premises and running the call centre, and the
 likelihood of tampering with evidence or influencing witnesses,
 this Court is not inclined to exercise discretion in favour of the
 applicant. 31. The offences alleged are grave, having cross-border
 ramifications and causing loss not only to individuals but also
 affecting the reputation of the country. The principle of balancing
 individual liberty with societal interest weighs against the
 applicant at this stage. 32. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the opinion that
 this is not a fit case to grant bail to the applicant. 33. Hence, the Bail Application stands rejected. (AMIT BORKAR, J.) 13 ::: Uploaded on - 04/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 04/09/2025 21:43:35 :::