Heard counsel for the parties. This bail application has been filed by the applicants,
who have been arrested and are in Jail in connection with
Crime No.22/2014 registered with Police Station S.T.F.,
Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM Examination
Scam cases - for the offence punishable under Sections
419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of IPC and also under Section 3(Gha) 1 , 2 / 4 of the M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha
Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant No.1 by the
prosecution is one of beneficiary and of applicant no.2 is
that of an impersonator. The applicants with the help of
each other indulged in unfair means during the
examination conducted by VYAPAM. It is fairly stated by the learned counsel for the State
on instructions that custodial interrogation of the applicants
 is no more required. Charge-sheet has also been filed
against the applicants. Further, the investigation against the
applicants is complete in all respects as of now and,
therefore, the presence of applicants is no more required.
They are not required in any other crime of similar type.
Besides, the applicants through counsel undertake to
appear before the Investigating Officer as and when called
for further investigation including against them as also to
punctually appear before the trial Court to ensure early
disposal of the criminal trial. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the
matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the
applicants on following strict conditions:- (Rupees One Lac) each with two solvent
 local sureties in the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the Trial Court for their
 regular appearance during the trial in
 connection with Crime No.22/2014 in
 Police Station S.T.F. Bhopal; (2) The applicants shall also comply with the
 conditions enumerated under Section 437
 (3) of Cr.P.C. meticulously; (3) Additionally, the applicants will report to
 the Police Station - Sabalgarh, District
 Morena (M.P.) once a week on every
 Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00
 noon unless required to attend the office
 of the Investigating Officer at Bhopal on
 that day; and
 (4) The applicants will deposit their passport,
 if available, with the Investigating
 Agency, else file affidavit in this Court
 declaring that the applicants do not have
 any passport of any country. This
 compliance will be condition precedent
 for release on bail. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.