Counter affidavit filed by the C.B.I. is taken on record. Heard Shri Purnendu Chakravarty, learned counsel for the applicant and the learned ASG Shri S.B. Pandey assisted by Shri Kazim Ibrahim, learned counsel for the respondent-CBI. This is second bail application on behalf of the applicant Indrajit Tiwari whose first bail application was rejected by a Coordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 29.04.2019. The submission of the learned counsel for the applicant is that the applicant has been languishing in jail since 01.11.2018 and he has been ascribed the role of committing the offence with the aid of Section 120-B IPC as there is no direct or indirect evidence against him for his involvement in the alleged offence. Learned counsel has further submitted that cognizance was taken by the trial court on 18.11.2017 where the applicant himself approached and is participating in the proceedings. In the charge-sheet, there are total 14 accused persons, out of the 14 so accused, the accused No.2 Shailesh Kishore Khare, who was the then Postal Assistant, Post Office, Lalitpur has been released on bail on 24.01.2019, so also the accused No.5 Shri Anil Kumar Jain was also released on bail by a Coordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 17.07.2019. The accused No.6 Manoj Singhai, who was assistant at the Head Post Office Lalitput has also been enlarged on bail so also the accused No.12 Kalu Ram Yadav, who was the Postal Assistant / Supervisor at Head Post Office, Lalitpur and he has been released on bail by Special CBI Judge on 14.05.2019. Learned counsel for the applicant further submits that the applicant does not have any substantive role in the entire scam. Learned counsel submits that the applicant has neither received any sum nor he is a beneficiary. It has further been submitted that actually the matter relates to siphoning off funds from the saving bank account from the Post Office. It has been submitted that the departmental records were being digitalized for Lalitpur Post Office and it was the Senior Postal Officer, who had outsourced manpower for the aforesaid work while ignoring the safety and sanctity of the passwords. The applicant neither had access to the said passwords nor he was in a position to utilize the same though the applicant has been victimized in the aforesaid postal scam. Learned counsel has further submitted that in the charge-sheet, there is elaborate discussion regarding the saving bank accounts and the details thereof which have been mentioned and withdrawal of the amount from the account-holders. Shri Chakravarty while buttressing his submissions has further submitted that the details of the bank accounts through which the total sum of rupees three crores and forty six lakhs is said to have been withdrawn, belong to the genuine account holders and these payments were released upon clearance by Shri Sukumar Jain, who was assistant Postmaster, wherein Anil Kumar Jain and Manoj Kumar Sangai were witnesses. However, it has been pointed out by Shri Chakravarty that both Anil Kumar Jain and Manoj Kumar Sangai have been released on bail. It has further been submitted that no direct role has been assigned to the applicant, however, he being a low rung employee has been implicated, who has been in jail since 01.11.2018. Learned counsel has further submitted that the applicant was not arrested during investigation and he has cooperated throughout. The applicant being merely a postal assistant is neither vested with the powers of clearing any vouchers nor the applicant has made any payment to any person for any amount from any counter. The computer system is handled by the system manager even otherwise the applicant is computer illiterate and in the aforesaid circumstances, the applicant is also suffering great hardship. Learned counsel has further submitted that his first bail application was rejected on 29.04.2019 and thereafter several circumstances have chanced especially that the other main co-accused, who were in responsible position, have been enlarged on bail and the trial is also not likely to conclude in near future coupled with the fact that dire circumstances have been created on account of COVID-19 Pandemic, which has further increased the strain on the courts proceedings with the trials. Learned counsel has also urged that right to speedy justice is a fundamental right and in these circumstances, where the other co-accused have been enlarged on bail and there is no likelihood of the trial to conclude any sooner coupled with the fact that the applicant is already languishing in jail for quarter to two years, hence, the prayed for bail. Shri S.B. Pandey, learned A.S.G. has vehemently opposed the prayer for bail and has submitted that on account of the violation of the circular of the Post Office Manual by which the applicant in conspiracy with other co-accused has led to loss to the State Exchequer to the tune of rupees three crores and fifty three lakhs while as far as the present applicant is concerned, his role is in respect of four withdrawal vouchers which led to siphoning off Rs.3,53,000/- from the Post Office. Learned ASG has further submitted that the first bail order by which the bail application was rejected is a detailed order and has taken note of all the submissions which have been made by the learned counsel for the applicant and there is no change in the circumstances which may give rise to any cause to the applicant to press his second bail application and in the aforesaid circumstances, since the complicity of the applicant is quite evident and considering the nature and extent of the scam the applicant is not entitled for bail which deserves to be rejected. At this stage, it will be apposite to notice the expression of opinion by the Apex court in the case of Dataram Singh Vs. State of U.P reported in 2018 (3) SCC 22. The relevant paragraphs reads as under:- The Court has considered the rival submissions and also carefully perused the record. Upon considering the same, it would indicate that the learned ASG could not dispute that the applicant alone is not responsible for the alleged scam. Even in the counter affidavit wherever the respondent has indicated the complicity of the applicant, it would indicate that it has been shown that the applicant along with Sukumar Jain is responsible. However, it has not been shown as to what extent the applicant was involved in the aforesaid modus operandi of defrauding the customers. Shri Pandey could not dispute that the name of the applicant did not find place in the inquiry conducted by Shri M.K. Srivastava and it is only once the CBI conducted the investigation and submitted its charge-sheet, the name of the applicant surfaced along with other persons. Even in the counter affidavit the role of the present applicant has been shown in respect of four vouchers only through which a sum of Rs.3,53,000/- has been affected. Shri Pandey also could not dispute the fact that the many of the aforesaid named accused-persons have also been enlarged on bail. Shri Pandey also could not dispute the fact that the investigation is complete and that the charge-sheet has been filed. It has not been shown that the applicant is required for custodial interrogation or any other purpose as well as the fact that at any point of time during investigation, the applicant did not cooperate. Learned ASG also could not express any apprehension that the applicant is likelihood to abscond or he may influence any witness or tamper with the evidence. Considering the rival submissions, the facts and circumstances of the case and the material available on record as well as considering the nature of allegations and accusation against the applicant, the severity of punishment if convicted and the period of incarceration as well as the fact that no apprehension has been expressed by the learned AGA that the applicant is at the risk of fleeing justice or that he would tamper with evidence or influence any witness, hence, at this stage, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, this Court is of the view that the applicant is entitled to be released on bail. Let the applicant Indrajit Tiwari involved in Court Case No.1426/2017, Crime No.RC 053 2014 A 0006 (6A / 2014), under Sections 120-B read with Sections 201 , 204 , 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477(A) IPC and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(c) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, Police Station CBI/SCB, District Lucknow be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond with two reliable sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned. At the time of executing required sureties the following conditions shall be imposed in the interest of justice. (i) The applicant shall file an undertaking to the effect that he shall not seek any adjournment on the dates fixed for evidence when the witnesses are present in court. In case of default of this condition, it shall be open for the trial court to treat it as abuse of liberty of bail and pass orders in accordance with law. (ii) The applicant shall remain present before the trial court on each date fixed, either personally or through his counsel. In case of his absence, without sufficient cause, the trial court may proceed against him under Section 229-A of the Indian Penal Code. (iii) In case, the applicant misuses the liberty of bail during trial and in order to secure his presence proclamation under Section 82 Cr.P.C. is issued and the applicant fails to appear before the court on the date fixed in such proclamation, then, the trial court shall initiate proceedings against him, in accordance with law, under Section 174-A of the Indian Penal Code. (iv) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the trial court on the dates fixed for (i) opening of the case, (ii) framing of charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. If in the opinion of the trial court, absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law. (v) The applicant shall neither influence any witness nor tamper with any evidence after his release. (vi) The party shall file computer generated copy of such order downloaded from the official website of High Court Allahabad. (vii) The computer generated copy of such order shall be self attested by the counsel or the party concerned. (viii) The concerned Court/Authority/Official shall verify the authenticity of such computerized copy of the order from the official website of High Court Allahabad and shall make a declaration of such verification in writing. Order Date :- 30.7.2020
 
Rakesh/-