(08/05/2020)

 The appellants have filed this appeal under Section

374(2) of Cr.P.C. being aggrieved by the judgment of

conviction and order of sentence dated 31/10/2018 passed

by Special Sessions Judge, Shahdol in Sessions Trial 2 No.209/2007 whereby each appellant stand convicted for

the offence punishable under Section 489C of IPC and

sentenced to suffer RI for five years along with fine of

Rs.5,000/-, in default of payment of fine, additional RI

for three months. 2. The case of prosecution against the appellants, in

short, is that Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) while posted as

S.H.O. of Police Station, Kotwali, Shahdol received

information on 10/04/2007 that one Ravi Sharma alias

Gudda is dealing with fake Indian currency notes and he

is coming at bus stand with fake currency notes. SHO-

Vijay Pratap Singh called two Panch witnesses

Chandrakant Soni (PW-10) and Md Jakir khan (PW-3).

and after informing them recorded the said information in

Rojnamcha Sanha (Ex.P/1) and moved to spot along with

panch witnesses, ASI Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8),

Constable Arvind Pyasi (PW-7), Swatantra Singh, Arvind

Dubey, Mahesh Yadav, Satya Narayan (PW-4), Rahees

Khan, Pramod Pandey, Shailendra Chaturvedi and driver

Chandra Prakas in Government Vehicle No.M.P.03 5682 3 and recorded that outgoing in Rojnamcha Sanha

(Ex.P/31). 3. Ravi Sharma met at bus stand and he was informed

about his search. Vijay Pratap Singh first made his search

along other companions in front of Ravi Sharma and

prepared Panchnama Ex.P/2 and P/3 in this regard.

Thereafter started searching of Ravi Sharma and found 72

note of Rs.500/-denomination fake Indian currency notes

and 190 notes of Rs.100/- denomination in his possession

and after perusal of the whole notes, it was found that

same number printed on so many notes, seized and

prepared search memo (Ex.P/4), seizure memo (Ex.P/5)

and arrested Ravi Sharma on spot, prepared arrest memo

(Ex.P/6) thereafter came back at Police Station, recorded

proceedings in the Rojnamcha Sanha (Ex.P/32), and

registered FIR as Crime No.165/2007 (Ex.P/33) at Police

Station, Kotwali, Shahdol. 4. Ravi Sharma alias Gudda informed about other co-

accused. In the same way on the basis of information

took appellant-Ramvishal Verma alias Ramvilas in 4 custody and asked for currency notes. Appellant-

Ramvishal Verma furnished information that he is having

fake currency notes and kept buried in backyard of his

house, Vijay Pratap Singh(PW-9) recorded memorandum

(Ex.P/10) before the Panch witnesses and appellant-

Ramvishal Verma alias Ramvilas after digging that place,

handed over currency notes of Rs.two lakh to Vijay

Pratap Singh (PW-9) which were seized and seizure

memo (Ex.P/14)was prepared . 5. In the same way, Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9)

interrogated appellant-Ram Kumar Kewat who informed

about having fake currency notes and kept buried in the

floor of his room, prepared his memorandum (Ex.P/11).

Appellant- Ram Kumar Kewat dug out the currency notes

and handed over the same to Vijay Pratap Singh who

prepared seizure memo (Ex.P/15) before the Panch

witnesses . Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) sent all seized

notes to the Bank Note Press, Dewas through S.P.,

Shahdol for examination. Bank Note Press after

examining the currency notes submitted a report 5 (Ex.P/38) and found all seized notes fake of Indian

currency. After investigation charge sheet was filed

against appellants along with other co accused. 6. Learned trial Court framed charges against both

appellants-Ramkumar Kewat and Ramvishal alias

Ramvilas Verma. Both the appellants abjured the guilt

and pleaded for trial. 7. Prosecution to bring the charges at home examined

11 witnesses. Appellant-Ramkumar Kewat while

examining under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. put defence that

he was going to see his Mousiya at Kotma. Police escort

of Police Station Bhalumada caught hold him and logged

him in the Police Station and thereafter sent him to the

Police Station, Kotwali, Shahdol. He did not do any

offence he has falsely been implicated in the matter.

Another appellant-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma while

examining under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. put defence that

he was at home. Police party of Police Station,

Bhalumada called him. When he went to Police Station,

Bhalumada, they kept him behind bar in the night and on 6 the next day they shifted him to Police Station, Kotwali,

Shahdol. He did not do any offence. He he has falsely

been implicated in the matter and produced one defence

witness Semjeet Rajak (DW-1). 8. Learned trial Court after hearing both the parties

delivered judgment dated 31/10/2018. Appellants-

Ramkumar Kewat and Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma

along with other co-accused have been convicted for the

offence punishable under Section 489C of IPC and

sentenced each appellant to undergo five years RI and

fine of Rs.5,000/- with default stipulation. 9. Both the appellants, being aggrieved by that

conviction and sentence, have jointly filed this appeal on

the ground that Police seized the fake currency notes

without custodial interrogation of both the appellants

which indicates that the Police had intentionally

implicated the appellants in this case and independent

seizure witnesses have not supported the prosecution

version. Memorandum statement of the other co-accused

are not admissible in evidence. There is no material 7 available on record to convict the appellants. Learned

trial Court has not appreciated the evidence in proper

perspective. The finding of the trial Court is illegal,

erroneous and contrary to law. The defence version has

not been accepted by the trial Court. Thus, it has been

prayed to allow this appeal and discharge the appellants

from the charge levelled against them. 10. Per contra, learned Dy. Govt. Advocate while

supporting the impugned judgment passed by the trial

Court, submits that both the appellants were found with

fake currency in their possession. They did not disclose

that why they had fake currency in their possession.

Sufficient material is available on record against the

appellants, therefore, prays for dismissal of the appeal. 11. Having heard learned counsel for the parties,

perused the record of trial Court i.e. S.T. No.209/2007. 12. Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9), in his statement, stated

that on 10/04/2007 he was posted as SHO, Police Station,

Kotwali, Shahdol received a tip off that Ravi Sharma alias

Gudda R/o Chandiya is coming with fake currency notes 8 and he deals with the fake currency. This witness called

Panch witnesses-Chandraprakash Soni and Mohd. Jakir

Khan and after recording the information in the

Rojnamcha Sanha went to bus stand along with other

Police escort where they found Ravi Sharma . He uttered

his name and during search, this witness categorically

stated fake currency notes of Rs.500/- and

Rs.100/-.denomination found in his possession, same

number is printed in so many notes. This witness

interrogated Ravi Sharma. On the basis of the

information furnished by Ravi Sharma, he went to inquire

from the other co-accused who received the fake currency

notes from Ravi Sharma (since dead). 13. Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) further stated that he

went to co-accused incuding appellant-Ramvishal Verma.

This witness categorically stated that he took appellant-

Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma in custody who

furnished information and conffesed that he received fake

currency of Rs.two lakh from Ravi Sharma and buried

behind his house in backyard (Barii). This information 9 provided by appellant-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma

before independent witnesses Chandraprakash

Soni(PW10) and Ramji sharma(PW2). This witness

recorded memorandum (Ex.P/10) and further stated that

appellant-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma dug out the

place and submitted bundle of fake currency notes having

same number in so many notes. This witness seized that

currency notes in presence of independent witness Ramji

Mishra and Chandrakant Soni and prepared seizure memo

(Ex.P/14). Perused seizure memo (Ex.P/14). 20 bundles

of Rs.100/- denomination rapped in polythene seized

from the custody of appellant-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas

Verma. 14. Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) further stated that on the

basis of information provided by Ravi Sharma alias

Gudda, he went to inquire the fact from appellant-

Ramkumar Kewat who lived in Village Dhangawan and

interrogated appellant- Ramkumar Kewat in custody. He

provided information that he received fake currency and

deals with fake currency having Rs.80,000/- and kept 10 buried in the ground in the room where he slept .

Appellant Ramkumar Kewat went to the place and after

diging out the fake currency notes which were eight

bundles of Rs.100/- notes having same number on so

many notes. Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) prepared

memorandum of appellant-Ramkumar Kewat (Ex.P/11)

and seizure memo (Ex.P/15). 15. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that none

of the independent witnesses have supported the

memorandum of information and seizure from the

appellants. Independent witnesses of the memorandum

Ex.P/10, P/11 and seizure memo Ex.P/14 and P/15 are

Chandrakant Soni (PW-10) and Ramji Mishra (PW-2). 16. Chandrakant Soni (PW-10) stated that none of the

appellants had been interrogated by the Police before him

and neither they furnished any information nor any

property seized from their possession . This witness

clearly stated that nothing has been done before him. He

stated that he was doing the job of driver and went to

Police Station, Kotwali, Shahdol and there Police 11 obtained his signatures on some papers . Prosecution

declared him hostile and on asking leading question, he

denied the fact that both the appellants furnished any

information before him to the Police and also denied for

seizure of fake notes in his presence from the appellants. 17. Ramji Mishra (PW-2) also not supported the

memorandum of information and any seizure of notes

from the possession of the appellants. This witness also

turned hostile and on asking leading question, he did not

support the case of prosecution. This witness clearly

stated that he put signature on the papers. This witness

categorically stated that he never went to Police Station,

Bhalumada, he signed all the papers at Police Station,

Kotwali, Shahdol. 18. Independent witnesses of the memorandum

(Ex.P/10 & P/11) and seizure memo (Ex.P/14 and P/15)

have not supported the proceeding conducted by Vijay

Pratap Singh (PW-9). Both the independent witnesses

clearly stated that nothing has been done before them.

Now it is witness-Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9), 12 Investigating Officer, who seized the fake notes from the

possession of appellants at their instance. Learned

counsel for the appellants submits that Investigating

Officer falsely implicated both appellants. In seizure

memo, no specific details of the notes are mentioned. If

the notes seized from the possession of both the

appellants are fake, Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) should

have specifically mentioned the number, how many notes

are having the same number and what number was

printed on that notes. In seizure memo no where he

mentioned the details of property and only mentioned the

fact that bundles of Rs.100/- and Rs.500/- notes seized

from the possession of appellants which is not sufficient

to show that how Investigating Officer came to know that

the notes which he seized prima facie seems fake. He

seized the fake notes from the possession of co-accused

Ravi Sharma and on the basis of seized notes, he

implicated both the appellants by mentioning the notes

seized from the possession of the appellants. 13 19. After hearing the arguments of learned counsel for

the appellants, perused the statement of Vijay Pratap

Singh (PW-9). In para-6, this witness stated that he went

to Village Dhangawan and took appellant-Ramkumar

Kewat in custody and on interrogation, appellant-

Ramkumar Kewat stated that he is having fake note of

Rs.80,000/- and furnished information where he kept that

notes. This witness further stated that he went to the

place along with appellant-Ramkumar Kewat and

appellant-Ramkumar Kewat handed over that notes

which were buried in his bed room. Perused

memorandum (Ex.P/11) and seizure memo (Ex.P/15).

Memorandum (Ex.P/11) prepared on 12/4/2007 at 17.45

'O' Clock and seizure (Ex.P/15) made at 18.00 'O' Clock.

No doubt in Ex.P/15 only it is mentioned that so many

notes were having same number but neither the number

mentioned in the seizure memo nor the details that how

many notes were having same number. It is clearly

reflected from the seizure memo that after seizing fake

notes, packet was not sealed on the spot. 14 20. Witness-Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) also prepared

memorandum of information (Ex.P/10) on the basis of

information of appellant-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas

Verma. This memorandum was taken at Police Station,

Kotma on 12/4/2007 at 15.15 'O' Clock and seizure

memo of the notes (Ex.P/14) prepared on the spot on

12/4/2007 at 15.45 'O' Clock. In this seizure memo, this

witness stated that so many notes are having same

number but no where stated that how many notes are

having the same number and in this memo, it is reflected

that seized notes were not sealed at the time of seizure.

None of the independent witnesses supported the

proceeding done by Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9). Ex.P/10

prepared at Police Station, Kotma and Ex.P/11 prepared

at Village Dhangawan, Police Station, Jaithari, Distt.

Anuppur. Both proceedings in relation to both appellants

did on the same date i.e. 12/4/2007 within three hours in

the territorial jurisdiction of the different-different Police

Stations. 21. Perused the cross-examination of Vijay Pratap

Singh (PW-9). In para-16 this witness categorically

stated that he along with police staff of Police Station,

Jaithari went to the house of appellant-Ramkumar Kewat.

Police staff of Police Station, Jaithari led this witness to

the house of appellant-Ramkumar Kewat and this witness

also stated that he has not made any entry in any

Rojnamcha Sanha of the concerned Police Station. 22. As per Ex.P/10, appellant-Ramvishal alias

Ramvilas Verma furnished information at Police Station,

Kotma. Meaning thereby, Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) was

present in Police Station, Kotma and called appellant-

Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma there but not made any

entry in the Rojnamch Sanha at Police Station, Kotma.

He went to the house of appellant-Ramvishal alias

Ramvilas Verma along with independent Panch witnesses,

but, none of the Police staff of Kotma went there. 23. Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) in para-18 clearly

admitted that no impression of seal affixed on the seizure

memo (Ex.P/14 and P/15) and during seizer of the notes, 16 series number and note number printed on notes did not

mention in both the seizure memos (Ex.P/14 and P/15). 24. In this case the witness of memorandum and seizure

is only Investigation Officer Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9).

How to scrutinize the evidence of Police Officer who is

Investigating Officer , Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Girja Prasad (dead) by L.Rs. Vs. State of M.P. , AIR

2007 SC 3106, has held in paras-24 to 26 as under : (emphasis supplied) 26. In Tahir v. State (Delhi ), 1996 (3) SCC
338, dealing with a similar question, Dr. A. S.
Anand, J. (as His Lordship then was) stated: 25. On the basis of the proposition laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court in the above cited case-law, again

perused the statement of Investigating Officer-Vijay

Pratap Singh (PW-9). 26. As discussed above, Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9)

after seizing the notes from the possession of both the

appellants did not mention details of the notes in the

seizure memo. He only mentioned that bundles of

Rs.100/- and Rs.500/- notes were found at the instance of

both the appellants. How he came to know that notes

seized were fake notes because he neither mentioned

serial number or note number printed in the seized notes

nor he mentioned that how many notes were having the

same serial number or note number. 27. Perused all the evidence adduced during trial by the

prosecution. No separate list is appended with the seizure 19 memo having details of the seized notes signed by the

independent witnesses. Ex.P/35 is a draft prepared by

the Superintendent of Police, Shahdol for sending the

seized notes to Manager, Bank Note Press, Govt. of India,

Dewas for examination of the seized notes. In that list

details of the notes are mentioned, seized from the

possession of appellants-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma

and Ramkumar Kewat , however, it is not tallied with the

seizure memo. 28. After perusal of the whole cross-examination, it is

not reflected that Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) is having

any enmity or personal grudge against the appellants to

implicate them falsely in this case. Memorandum

(Ex.P/10) and seizure (Ex.P/14) were prepared at Police

Station, Kotma, Distt. Anuppur in connection with

appellant-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma and

memorandum (Ex.P/11) and seizure memo (Ex.P/15)

prepared at Village Dhangawan, Police Station Jaithari,

Distt. Anuppur. Witness-Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9)

clearly stated that he went to Police Station, Jaithari and 20 the Police personnel of Jaithari took him at the resident of

appellant-Ramkumar Kewat, however, no Rojnamcha

entry was made in that Police Station. Independent

seizure witnesses have not supported the information

furnished by both the appellants and seizure of the notes

at their instance. 29. No doubt, FIR (Ex.P/33) registered by Vijay Pratap

Singh (PW-9) against co-accused-Ravi Sharma alias

Gudda on the basis of fake notes seized from his

possession. Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) prepared

Rojnamcha entry of outgoing and incoming and details of

the seizure of notes found in possession of co-accused-

Ravi Sharma alias Gudda. However, when he went to

inquire the matter from appellant-Ramvishal alias

Ramvilas Verma, he first went to Police Station, Kotma

where he called appellant-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas

Verma and appellant-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma

furnished information (Ex.P/10) at Police Station,

Kotma. Why the entry in the Rojnamcha Sanha was not

made by Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) is questionable and 21 why he had not made an entry when he seized notes from

the possession of appellant-Ramvishal alias Ramvilas

Verma is also questionable . 30. In the same way, Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) stated

that he went to Police Station, Jaithari and with the help

of Police staff of Police Station, Jaithari reached at

Village Dhangawan where appellant-Ramkumar Kewat

was residing. He prepared memorandum (Ex.P/11) on the

basis of information furnished by appellant-Ramkumar

Kewat and by seizing notes at the instance of appellant-

Ramkumar Kewat prepared seizure memo (Ex.P/15).

Why Investigating Officer-Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) did

not enter all these proceedings in Rojnamcha Sanha kept

at Police Station, Jaithari is questionable and why he did

not recorded the statement of any Police staff of Police

Station, Jaithari who went along with him at Village

Dhangawan is also questionable. 31. Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) recorded first

information report (Ex.P/33) and registered Crime

No.165/2007 and stated on the basis of information 22 furnished by accused-Ravi Sharma alias Gudda about

both appellants, he went to inquire that fact from the

appellants. Neither he submitted the statement of co-

accused Ravi Sharma alias Gudda in evidence nor

submitted memorandum of co-accused Ravi Sharma alias

Gudda in which he furnished information about both the

appellants. No doubt, Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) has

recorded the FIR against co-accused Ravi Sharma alias

Gudda , names of the appellants were not found place in

that FIR. Investigating Officer-Vijay Pratap Singh (PW- 9) should have furnished all the details in evidence that

how he came to know that the appellant is having a fake

note. He stated that Ravi Sharma alias Gudda furnished

information, but, no such evidence produced during trial.

If he is an informant, he should not investigate the matter

further. 32. Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Mohan Lal Vs.

State of Punjab , (2018) 17 SCC 627 in para-13 has held

as under : 33. Investigating Officer-Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9)

had not acted properly and investigated the matter

properly in relation to both the appellants as discussed

above which leads to unfair investigation. If there is

unfair investigation against the appellants, there will be a

danger if this Court totally relies upon the evidence of 24 Investigating Officer in relation to the information

furnished by the appellants in custody and seizure of the

fake notes from the possession of each appellant.

Independent witnesses turned hostile and the evidence of

Investigating Officer in connection with furnishing of

information and seizure from the appellants is not totally

reliable. It cannot be said that the seizure of the fake

notes were proved beyond reasonable doubt. 34. Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Mohan Lal (supra) in para-14 and 17 clearly held as under : 33. In State of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma this Court
has held as under: (SSC pp.263-65, paras 57,
59 % 61)

 "57. ... Investigation is a delicate painstaking
 and dextrous process. Ethical conduct is
 absolutely essential for investigative
 professionalism. ... Therefore, before
 countenancing such allegations of mala fides
 or bias it is salutary and an onerous duty and
 responsibility of the court, not only to insist
 upon making specific and definite allegations
 of personal animosity against the
 investigating officer at the start of the
 investigation but also must insist to establish
 and prove them from the facts and
 circumstances to the satisfaction of the court. * * * 59. Malice in law could be inferred from
 doing of wrongful act intentionally without
 any just cause or excuse or without there
 being reasonable relation to the purpose of
 the exercise of statutory power. ... * * * 61. An investigating officer who is not
 sensitive to the constitutional mandates, may
 be prone to trample upon the personal liberty 26 of a person when he is actuated by mala
 fides." 17. In a criminal prosecution, there is an
 obligation cast on the investigator not only to be
 fair, judicious and just during investigation, but
 also that the investigation on the very face of it
 must appear to be so, eschewing any conduct or
 impression which may give rise to a real and
 genuine apprehension in the mind of an accused
 and not mere fanciful, that the investigation was
 not fair. In the circumstances, if an informant
 police official in a criminal prosecution,
 especially when carrying a reverse burden of
 proof, makes the allegations, is himself asked to
 investigate, serious doubts will naturally arise
 with regard to his fairness and impartiality. It is
 not necessary that bias must actually be proved.
 It would be illogical to presume and contrary to
 normal human conduct, that he would himself at
 the end of the investigation submit a closure
 report to conclude false implication with all its
 attendant consequences for the complainant
 himself. The result of the investigation would
 therefore be a foregone conclusion." 35. On the basis of forgoing discussions, this Court is

of the view that prosecution failed to prove beyond

reasonable doubt that bundles of note recovered at the

instance of appellants and found to be fake notes.

Prosecution also failed to prove that the notes sent to

Dewas Note Press for examination were recovered from 27 the possession of both appellants . In totality, this Court

finds that prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable

doubt that the fake currency notes seized from the

possession of the appellants which were kept for

transactions as the real currency notes. Learned trial

Court erred in convicting appellants-Ramkumar Kewat

and Ramvishal alias Ramvilas Verma for the offence

punishable under Section 489-C of IPC. 36. In view of aforesaid discussions, this appeal is

allowed. The conviction and sentence of the appellant-

Ramkumar Kewat and appellant-Ramvishal alias

Ramvilas Verma is hereby set aside. The appellants are

in jail, they be released immediately if not required in any

case. If any I.A.pending, stand dismissed. (Vishnu Pratap Singh Chauhan)
 Judge
ts Digitally signed by TULSA SINGH Date: 2020.05.08 11:28:54 +05'30'
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : JABALPUR Cr.A. NO.8752/2018 Ramkumar Kewat and another
 Vs.
 State of M.P.

 ORDER

 Post for : /05/2020

 (Vishnu Pratap Singh Chauhan)
 Judge
 ( /05/2020) 29 On the basis of the information provided by Ravi Sharma
alias Gudda, Vijay Pratap Singh went to the house of
other co-accused Anna alias Rashid who was residing in
the territorial jurisdiction of Police Station, Bhalumada,
Distt. Anuppur. After identifying Anna alias Rashid, took
him in custody and intercepted him. He provided
information that he was having fake currency notes and
kept the same in his house below the bed. Vijay Pratap
Singh moved along with panch witnesses, co-accused
Anna alias Rashid provided two bundle of currency notes
of Rs.100/-. Vijay Pratap Singh prepared memorandum
(Ex.P/6) and after seizing the same prepared seizure
memo (Ex.P/12). 5. On the basis of the information given by Ravi
Sharma, intercepted co-accused Hariom Tiwari. He
informed that he was having fake currency notes of Rs.
Two lakh and covered the same in polyethylene bag and
buried in the sand at the bank of Kewai river. Vijay
Pratap Singh recorded memorandum (Ex.P/8) and seized
the fake currency notes at the instance of Hariom Tiwari
and prepared seizure memo (Ex.P/13).