Heard counsel for the parties. This bail application has been filed by the applicant, who
has been arrested on 2nd March, 2015 and is in Jail in
connection with Crime No.360/2012 registered with Police
Station Kohefiza, Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM
Examination Scam cases - for the offence punishable under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC and also under Section 3 read with Section 4 of the M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha
Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is
that he committed unfair means during the examination
conducted by VYAPAM by taking help of impersonator. The
applicant was arrested on 2nd March, 2015 and charge-sheet
has also been filed against the applicant on 13th March, 2015.
The relevant evidence against applicant has already been
collected and made part of the charge-sheet such as
photographs, admitted and disputed signatures, FSL report etc.
In other words, no further investigation against the applicant to
indicate his complicity in commission of the crime is required.
His custodial interrogation for that purpose may not be (2) required. The applicant is not involved in any other crime of
the same type. Indeed, the Investigating Officer in spite of best efforts
has not been able to identify and trace the impersonator who
had appeared for the applicant. That investigation, however, is
still in progress and in absence of any further clue from the
applicant, will depend upon the other inquiries and
investigations to be done in that regard. For that, the presence
of applicant is not required. This position is fairly accepted by
the learned counsel for the State, but, with a rider that
applicant should make himself available to the Investigating
Officer as and when called upon to do so without any
exception. The applicant through counsel undertakes to comply
with this condition and also to punctually appear before the
Trial Court for early disposal of the criminal case. Taking overall view of the matter, in the interest of
justice, we direct release of the applicant on bail as he is only
beneficiary and not middleman or racketeer as such on the
following terms and conditions:- The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.