his parentage and address S/o Sh. Ramesh Chand Jain
 R/o F-76/B, first floor, Laxmi Nagar,
 Mangal Bazar, Delhi-92. E Date of Institution of the 31.07.2019
 case
 F Offences charged Offences u/s 385 IPC. BRIEF STATEMENT OF REASONS FOR DECISION OF THE CASE 1. Present accused is produced before the court to stand trial for the offence
 punishable u/s 385 IPC. 2. In brief, the facts of the case as per the prosecution are that one complaint
 was filed by complainant dated 18.08.2018 before SHO PS Anand Vihar,
 wherein, it is stated that about two to three months ago, accused Sandeep
 Jain called the complainant for a meeting at Hotel Park Plaza wherein he
 called his other associates into the meeting room. It is further stated that
 therein he consumed a cold drink and became semi-conscious and in an
 unfit state of mind. It is stated that on 16.06.2018, accused Sandeep Jain
 sent a WhatsApp message to the complainant at about 7.20 pm from his
 mobile phone no. 8376057760 containing three photographs and one
 video-clip. It is stated that the photographs and video-clip were tampered
 with and morphed to blackmail, extort money from and defame the
 complainant. It is stated that the complainant made various attempts to get
 in touch with the accused but to no avail, however when the accused
 picked complainant's call, he demanded Rs. 50,00,000/- from the
 complainant and threatened him to pay the same within seven days or he
 will publish said photographs and video of the complainant on social
 media and further implicate him in false rape cases. As such, aggrieved by
 his acts, complainant got present FIR registered against the accused. During the course of investigation, the above-stated photographs
 and video-clip were obtained from the complainant and complainant
 provided an NCR with regards to his lost mobile phone. It is stated by the Digitally signed by ANUBHAV ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: 3. Upon filing of the charge-sheet, this court vide order dated 31.07.2019
 took the cognizance of the offences against accused and summons were
 issued. Accused appeared before the court and copies of the charge-sheet
 were supplied to him on 10.12.2019 in compliance of Section 207 Cr.PC. 4. Further, Ld. Predecessor Court vide order dated 08.12.2022 framed charge
 against accused Prem Kumar u/s 385 IPC, to which, accused pleaded not
 guilty and claimed trial. 5. During the course of evidence, prosecution has examined complainant /
 victim Praveen Jain. The said witness did not support the case of the
 prosecution and stated that police officials took his signatures upon 2-3
 blank papers and he did not give any complaint to police and further, he is
 not aware as to the present matter. He further stated that he can identify
 accused in the court as the accused is his brother-in-law. The said witness
 was declared hostile by Ld. APP for the State and was cross-examined at
 length. However, during the course of cross-examination, nothing
 incriminating come forth against the said accused. The testimony of the Digitally signed
 ANUBHAV by ANUBHAV
 JAIN
 JAIN Date: 2023.12.21
 16:45:20 +0530 FIR No.355/2018 PS : Anand Vihar State Vs. Sandeep Jain Page No. 3/8 complainant is being reproduced as under for the sake of convenience : unconscious and I was in fit state of mind or that
 after 2-3 months of the said meeting, on 16.07.2018,
 Mr. Sandeep Jain send a whatsapp at about 07.21-
 07.22 pm from his mobile number 8376057760
 containing 3 photographs and one video clipping,
 which I received while sitting in my office, Ideal
 palace, KKD institutional area, Delhi. At this stage, witness is confronted with the
 statement Ex.PW1/A from point A to A1, wherein it
 has been recorded & explained in Hindi Language,
 upon which, witness denied that he had not gave
 these facts to the police officials. It is wrong to suggest that I was totally shocked &
 disturbed on receipt and opening of whatsapp photos
 and video clipping or that the photograph as well as
 the video have been tempered and morphed to
 blackmail, extort money and defame me or that I
 immediately called Mr. Sandeep Jain at his above
 mobile number but he did not pick up the call or that
 I also called at his other mobile number 9999343265
 which was found switched off or that I immediately
 at about 07.43 pm, sent whatsapp messages to him
 'please call me' and at about 07.47 pm, 'Sandeep ji,
 call pick kariye'. At this stage, witness is confronted with the
 statement Ex.PW1/A from point B to B1, wherein it Digitally signed by ANUBHAV ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: Perusal of record reveals that except for the complainant, all other
 witnesses are formal in nature, since from perusal of statement u/s 161 Cr.PC of other witnesses, it is revealed that none of the said witness was
 present at the alleged point of time at the spot who has seen the alleged
 offence. 10.To bring home the charge under section 385 IPC against the accused in the
 present case, the testimony of the complainant / victim i.e. PW1 was most
 crucial since he was the only eye witness of the incident. Since the
 complainant did not supported the case of the prosecution and the Digitally signed by ANUBHAV ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: 11.Since nothing incriminating has been brought forth against the accused, in
 terms of observations made by Hon'ble Apex Court in Satish Mehra v.
 Delhi Administration , reported as 1996 JCC 507, statement of the accused
 u/s 313 Cr.PC was dispensed with. Relevant portion of the judgment is
 being reproduced as under 12. It is settled proposition of law that it is incumbent upon the prosecution to
 prove its own case beyond all reasonable doubt. Since the present case,
 complainant did not supported the case of prosecutions and there is no
 other incriminating evidence, on record against the accused, accused
 Sandeep Jain stands acquitted of the offences he is charged for. Present judgment consisted of 08 pages and each page bears my signatures.