The petitioner prays for quashing of Criminal Complaint No.239-1

dated 18.12.2010 (Annexure P-1) under Section 500 I.P.C. and other proceedings

arising therefrom. The respondent filed the aforesaid complaint against the present

petitioner offended by a write-up that appeared in "Punjab Kesari", a Hindi daily

newspaper allegedly having wide circulation throughout the country including the

States of Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, U.P. and Delhi. The petitioner is said to have authored this write-up titled "Chautala

ke Gunda Raj ki Yad Aye", the translated version of which is extracted here

below :- Various examples can be given of the politician speaking lies

 without shame. The family of Ruchika knows that Chautala

 was one of the main person standing with Rathore. This

 episode has removed the veil not only from Chautala but all

 other Ex-Chief Minister who had been given the title of

 development man (Vikas Purush). The remaining was done

 by the statement (Khulasa) of the Ex-Chief Minister of

 Himachal Pradesh and senior BJP Leader Shanta Kumar.

 It makes no difference to the people who are already

 shameless (hamam me nange). During the storm on the

 Ruchika episode the CBI has charge sheet in the matter of

 disproportionate assets against both the sons of Om Parkash Criminal Misc. No.M-5480 of 2011 -3- Chautala i.e. Ajay and Abhey Chautala. The CBI had sent

 report to the Speaker of Haryana Vidhan Sabha and asked for

 permission to file sheet against Om Parkash Chautala. It is

 said that God's action is slow but the action is definitely there.

 I feel the God's action is taking place. Some years ago, the

 person who was wearing Lakhani Chappal and travelling in

 buses and was fighting for 50 paisa/25 paisa with the

 Rickshaw pullers was none else but the politician Om

 Parkash Chautala. Till 1987, this view the seen by the general public of Haryana

 with their own eye. Today this very person is the owner of big

 commercial institutions, shopping malls, hotels, big palaces,

 farm houses, jewellery, expensive cars and big bank accounts.

 When the coallition Govt. of INLD of Om Parkash Chautala

 and BJP came into power in the election held on 22.2.2000, at

 that time, the desires of Chautala crossed all limits. Haryana

 came under eclipse. The common man felt such bite of

 corruption which was ever felt by anyone. The industrialists

 started leaving. The farmer of the village was already

 suffering from shortage of light and electricity and the

 bureaucracy was pushing him towards suicide. All builder

 mafia, land mafia came to be seen in "Abhey" situation as if

 they had become "Ajay" i.e. nobody could win them. Crime

 crossed all limits in Haryana Chautala Administration. There

 was terror every where of the Chautala's personal army i.e.

 green brigade. Haryana Pradesh Congress at that time had

 given to the then Governor A.R.Kidwai a charge sheet against Criminal Misc. No.M-5480 of 2011 -4- Chautala which was published in serial from by Punjab Kesari

 Delhi and had given complete details of the Gunda Raj of

 Chautala along with property with pictures and Chautala had

 got very angry at that time. I was given many threatenings.

 So much so, such oral orders were given that there be

 barricading at the borders of Haryana so that the vehicles

 having Punjab Kesari newspapers should not be allowed to

 enter the State. The Chautala Administration had got the

 name of ABC Government, i.e. Ajay Billu and Chautala Govt.

 Punjab Kesari Delhi had published the Ruchika suicide matter

 in headlines. Chautala's image had become that of villain after

 the Maham Chaubishi episode. There was big time scam in the

 recruitments/jobs. In the end the ballot culture defeated the

 bullet culture. The public bearing the bite of corruption told

 that - The ship of Chautala Govt. had become so heavy by its own

 sins that it could take even one stroke. In the light Vidhan

 Sabha election the INLS of Chautala got more seats than

 expected and INLD became a strong opposition but for this

 the wrong tickets distribution of Congress was responsible.

 Had the public forgot the bite then Chautala again would have

 come to power. The horse knows tis rider and therefore,

 Bhupinder Singh Hooda created history by again becoming

 Chief Minister. In the Ruchika episode there was nude dance of brutality Criminal Misc. No.M-5480 of 2011 -5- (danavata) on the chest of manavta (humanity) but Haryana

 remained neutral. Justice and truth was laughed upon. There

 is still time left whether it is Rahore or Chautala family,

 personal enmity should be kept aside and punishment given to

 people who are doing immoral acts. The Central Govt. and

 Haryana Govt. will have to protect the faith of the public."

 The complainant proclaimed himself to be an activist of a political

party named Indian National Lok Dal whose leader was Shri Om Parkash Chautala

against whom the aforesaid write-up was directed when he was heading the

Government of the State of Haryana. The complainant further alleges that he was

a Minister in the Government headed by Shri Om Parkash Chautala and held

numerous positions in the hierarchy of the party. He alleges that Shri Om Parkash

Chautala and his father were known political personalities, who had sacrificed a lot

for the country and the State, having an immense social and political standing and

therefore, the article has offended not only the sensibilities of the persons named

therein, but has also lowered their image in the eyes of the public and the petitioner

was confronted by numerous members of the society with the contents of the said

article. The petitioner was summoned by virtue of Annexure P-4 on 7.1.2011

by the Court of the J.M.I.C., Hansi. On the subsequent date, non-bailable warrants

were issued to procure the presence of the petitioner which order (Annexure P-5)

has also been impugned herein. The petition has been strenuously opposed by the respondent who

has justified the complaint and the consequent proceedings. The arguments raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner would

reveal a challenge on the following grounds :- In support of his pleas, learned counsel for the petitioner has placed

reliance on the following judgments :- On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent has referred to

the complaint and the write-up to say that a bare reading of the same would reveal

a defamatory intent and content and therefore, the complaint and the consequent

summoning order are justified. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused the Criminal Misc. No.M-5480 of 2011 -7- complaint as also the write-up in question. The first question that would need to be determined is as to whether

the complainant had any locus to question the write-up being defamatory and file a

complaint ? Section 499 I.P.C. and the relevant Explanations/Exceptions would be

necessary to be extracted here below :- The write-up does not relate even remotely to the association or

collection of persons which may in this case by implication mean the INLD, a

political party of which the complainant was a member. Therefore, by no stretch

of imagination, can it be perceived that the complainant has any locus even to

initiate the complaint. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in G.Narasimhan and others v.

T.V.Chokkapa AIR 1972 S.C.2609 (supra) observed that the complainant who

was the Chairman of the Reception Committee of a conference organized by a

political party namely Dravida Kazhagam, was not competent to institute the

complaint where the impugned news item related to a comment on the party which

had organized a conference. The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under :- (1699) 3 Balk 224, cited in Ratanlal and Dhirajlal, Law of

 Crimes (22nd d.) 1317. In England also, criminal proceedings

 would lie in the case of libel against a class provided such a

 class is not indefinite, e.g. men of science, but a definite one,

 such as, the clergy of the diocese of Durham, the justices of

 the peace for the county of Middle sex. (See Kenny's Outlines

 of Criminal Law 19th ed. 235). If a well-defined class is

 defamed, every person of that class can file a complaint even

 if the defamatory imputation in question does not mention him

 by name." In view of the above, I am of the considered opinion that the

complainant has no locus to institute a complaint which does not even remotely

affect him or even the association or the political party to which he belongs. That leaves us with the larger question to be examined i.e. the write-

up/editorial and its scrutiny in terms of the definition of defamation given in Criminal Misc. No.M-5480 of 2011 -12- Section 499 of the I.P.C. and re-concile it to the freedom of speech and expression,

one of the sacred fundamental rights so relevant in a democratic set up as long as it

is exercised subject to reasonable restriction contained in Article 19(2) of the

Constitution of India. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Life Insurance Corporation of India

v. Prof.Manubhai D.Shah 1993 AIR (SC) 171 observed as follows :- Article 19(2) which has relevance may also be

 reproduced : 6. A constitutional provision is never static, it is ever

 evolving and ever changing and, therefore, does not admit of

 a narrow, pedantic or syllogistic approach. If such an

 approach had been adopted by the American Courts, the First

 Amendment - (1791) - "Congress shall make no law

 abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press" - would

 have been restricted in its application to the situation then

 obtaining and would not have catered to the changed situation

 arising on account of the transformation of the print media. It

 was the broad approach adopted by the court which enabled

 them to chart out the contours of ever expanding notions of

 press freedom. In Dennis v. United States, (1950) 341 US

 494, Justice Frank Furtur observed : Adopting this approach in Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson (1951) 343 US 495 the Court rejected its earlier determination Criminal Misc. No.M-5480 of 2011 -14- to the contrary in Mutual Film Corporation v. Industrial

 Commission of Ohio (1914) 236 US 230 and concluded that

 expression through motion pictures is included within the

 protection of the First Amendment. The Court thus expanded

 the reach of the First Amendment by placing a liberal

 construction on the language of that provision. It will thus be

 seen that the American Supreme Court has always placed a

 broad interpretation on the constitutional provisions for the

 obvious reason that the constitution has to serve the needs of

 an ever changing society. ... ... ... 8. The words 'freedom of speech and expression' must,

 therefore, be broadly construed to include the freedom to

 circulate one's views by words of mouth or in writing or

 through audio-visual instrumentalities. It, therefore, includes

 the right to propagate one's views through the print media or

 through any other communication channel e.g. the radio and

 the television. Every citizen of this free country, therefore, has

 the right to air his or her views through the printing and/or the

 electronic media subject of course to permissible restrictions

 imposed under Article 19(2) of the Constitutions. The print

 media, the radio and the tiny screen play the role of public

 educators, so vital to the growth of a healthy democracy.

 Freedom to air one's views is the lifetime of any democratic

 institution and any attempt to stifle, suffocate or gag this right

 would sound a death-knell to democracy and would help

 usher in autocracy or dictatorship. It cannot be gainsaid that Criminal Misc. No.M-5480 of 2011 -15- modern communication medium advances public interest by

 informing the public of the events and developments that have

 taken place and thereby educating the voters, a role

 considered significant for the vibrant functioning of a

 democracy. Therefore, in any set up, more so in a democratic

 set up like ours, dissemination of news and views for popular

 consumption is a must and any attempt to deny the same must

 be frowned upon unless it falls within the mischief of Article

 19(2) of the Constitution. It follows that a citizen for

 propagation of his or her ideas has a right to publish for

 circulation his views in periodicals, magazines and journals or

 through the electronic media since it is well known that these

 communication channels are great purveyors of news and

 views and make considerable impact on the minds of the

 readers and viewers and are known to mould public opinion

 on vital issues of national importance. Once it is conceded,

 and it cannot indeed be disputed, that freedom of speech and

 expression includes freedom of circulation and propagation of

 ideas, there can be no doubt that the right extends to the

 citizen being permitted to use the media to answer the

 criticism levelled against the view propagated by him. Every

 free citizen has an undoubted right to lay what sentiments he

 pleases before the public ; to forbid this, except to the extent

 permitted by Article 19(2) , would be an inroad on his

 freedom. This freedom must, however, be exercised with

 circumspection and care must be taken not to trench on the

 rights of other citizens or to jeopardize public interest. It is Criminal Misc. No.M-5480 of 2011 -16- manifest from Article 19(2) that the right conferred by Article

 19(1)(a) to subject to imposition of reasonable restrictions in

 the interests of, amongst others, public order, decency or

 morality or in relation to defamation or incitement to an

 offence. It is therefore, obvious that subject to reasonable

 restrictions placed under Article 19(2) a citizen has a right to

 publish, circulate and disseminate his views and any attempt

 to thwart or deny the same would offend Article 19(1)(a). In Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India 1985(2) SCR 287, it was observed as follows : The courts cannot loose sight of the fact that in a democracy, the

performance of a Government headed by an elected political dispensations and the

administration so run by them necessarily need to be circumscribed to scathing

debates at the hands of either its own political opponents or the Press. Dissent and criticism often gives way to fertile breeding of an

intelligent opinion generating healthy friction between various sections of a polity,

and opinions, generated, often clonish of the truth are extremely necessary for an

intellectual debate for the growth of a democratic society apart from ensuring

accountability by putting the actions of persons in power to swords of dissection.

A candid expression of an opinion often spouts another either confrontational or

platitudious, but always enlightening. In any case an intelligible opinion of one

does not necessarily mean the conviction of the other. So there is no need to

discourage it. Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India is extracted here below :- The attempt to curb the freedom to speech, the freedom of Press and

the power of the pen therefore, needs to be discouraged and rather, complaints

such as these ordinarily should be viewed as attempts of a prudish mind of the

complainant's orchestrator showing complete subversiveness and servility of

character, and displaying an aversion to criticism over a preference to a parroted

existence. The complaint merely opinionates with reference to utterances of a

political personality involved regarding his role qua the D.G.P. in the case of a

suicide by a young girl Ruchika Girotra and the remaining aspects to the fact of

registration of a case of disproportionate assets and the alleged misdeeds of the

Government which is partly factual and partly only a matter of opinion and may

vary from person to person, citizen to citizen and group to group. The write-up

also is contemptuous of the political class in general and the erstwhile

personalities who were at the helm of affairs as Chief Minister of the State of

Haryana. It concludes by making an appeal that the Central Government and the

Haryana Government will have to protect the faith of the public. It is thus a mix of fact and perception. If fact is accepted then it is

certainly exempt from the concept of defamation and opinion, as observed earlier

is not necessarily the conviction of the other and in any eventuality, it falls well

within the permissible restriction envisaged in Article 19(2) of the Constitution of

India. The aforesaid contents of the article would, therefore, be protected by

the first, second and third exceptions carved out in Section 499 I.P.C. where an

imputation is made concerning any person for the public good or an expression in

good faith of any opinion regarding a public servant in the discharge of his public Criminal Misc. No.M-5480 of 2011 -19- functions or an expression in good faith of an opinion by respecting the conduct of

any person touching any public question. Apart from this, the opinion expressed

would certainly be protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India and

such free speech which intelligibly questions a performance of the Government

and the persons running it, cannot be termed to be defamatory. Hence such an

opinion can at best be seen to be a dissent or disagreement with the prevailing

system and thus in a larger interest has to be tolerated no matter how unpalatable it

is. The court is thus, of the opinion that the entire reading of the

complaint does not disclose any defamatory content and rather, squarely falls

within the exceptions carved out in Section 499 I.P.C. and protected by the sheath

of Article 19(1)(a) and Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India. Therefore, the petition is accepted and the complaint Annexure P-1

and the consequent summoning order and all other proceedings arising therefrom

are hereby quashed.