Brief facts of the prosecution case:- Metro Pillar No.162, New Ashok Nagar, Delhi-110096. At the time of
 inspection, no electricity meter was found installed in the inspected
 premises and one person namely Dilip (could not be traced) was found to
 be user and inspected premises was found to have been occupied by said
 Dilip as a tenant. The user/accused Dilip was found indulged in direct theft
 of electricity through two core Black colour wire which was joined with
 the Extra Service Cable. The total connected load was found to be 5.475
 KW which was being used for commercial purpose (IT Training Institute)
 at the first floor. PW2 also deposed that during inspection, user/tenant
 Dilip was present at the spot and necessary videography of the inspection
 proceedings was done by the videographer Sh. Parvesh. The CD
 containing videography of the inspection proceedings has been brought on
 record as Ex.PW2/1. During evidence, the CD was played on the laptop
 and the witness has identified the video which was recorded by the
 videographer during inspection. The witness also identified the tenant/user
 Dilip featuring in the said video. The inspection report Ex.PW2/2 and the
 load report Ex.PW2/3 were prepared at the spot. Entire set of inspection
 documents was prepared in presence of accused/user Dilip and same was
 tendered to him but he refused to sign and accept the same. The illegal
 wire was removed by lineman Sh. Raju and seized at the spot vide seizure

FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 4 of 16
 memo Ex.PW2/4. On the basis of inspection, a theft bill of Rs.3,14,931/-
 (Ex.PW2/5) was raised and sent to accused. Thereafter, on 10.10.2019, he
 lodged a complaint (Ex.PW2/6) with the SHO, PS New Ashok Nagar for
 registration of an FIR against the accused. During evidence before the
 court, the case property i.e. two core Black colour aluminium cable of
 2x10 mm square size having length of approx one foot was produced and
 shown to the witness who identified the said wire as the same which was
 removed from the site and seized at the spot. The said wire has been
 brought on record as Ex.P1. (5.2) PW3 Sh. Raju is the Lineman. This witness is another member of
 the inspection team and he also corroborated the testimony of PW2 and
 deposed on the similar lines of the testimony of PW2. He also deposed
 that he removed the illegal wire at the time of inspection. He also
 identified the user/tenant in Dilip in the said video contained in the CD
 Ex.PW2/1. (5.3) PW1 ASI Adesh Kumar is the IO of the case. This witness
 deposed that on 14.10.2019, on the direction of SHO, the complaint
 (Ex.PW2/6) lodged by Sh. Jitin Kumar Pal, BSES YPL, was handed over
 to Duty Officer for registration of an FIR. Accordingly, Duty Officer
 registered FIR No.510/2019 and marked the investigation of the case to
 him. The copy of the FIR has been brought on record as Ex.PW1/1.
 Thereafter, on 20.10.2019, he visited the inspected premises and prepared
 site plan Ex.PW1/2. On 24.11.2019, he served the accused with the notice
 U/s 41.1A Cr.P.C (Ex.PW1/3). On the next day, accused joined the
 investigation and and handed over copy of his Aadhar Card as well as

FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 5 of 16
 copies of ownership documents of the inspected premises which have been
 brought on record as Mark A colly. During investigation, it came to notice
 that the inspected premises belongs to accused Sonu Choudhary at the
 relevant time and tenant/user Dilip was occupying the inspected premises.
 However, the accused/tenant Dilip could not be traced as he had already
 vacated the premises and went to an unknown place. Accused Sonu
 Choudhary also provided copy of his Aadhar Card Mark A. Accused Sonu
 Choudhary was bound down vide Pabandinama Ex.PW1/2. 6. After culmination of prosecution evidence, statement of accused
 Sonu Choudhary was recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C . Accused did not deny the
 factum of inspection. Accused also did not deny that no electricity meter
 was available at the inspected premises at the time of inspection. Accused
 did not deny that inspected premises belongs to him and co-accused Dilip
 (since not arrested) was his tenant and inspected premises was occupied by
 his tenant Dilip. Accused also did not deny the fact that at the time of
 inspection user/accused Dilip was present at the spot and necessary
 videography of the inspection proceedings was done by the videographer.
 Accused Sonu Choudhary stated that he has settled the matter with the
 complainant company and he has also made the payment and an NOC has
 been issued. Accused opted not to lead any evidence to his defence. 7. Final arguments have been heard from the Ld. Addl. PP for the
 State as well as Ld. Counsel for the accused. During the course of
 arguments, Ld. Addl. PP for the State submitted that at the time of
 inspection, no electricity meter was available at the inspected premises. It
 is also submitted that accused Sonu Choudhary is the owner of the

FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 6 of 16
 inspected premises during relevant time and user/co-accused Dilip was
 tenant in the inspected premises and thus, accused Sonu Choudhary let the
 user/co-accused Dilip commit direct theft of electricity. It is further argued
 that the complainant company has proved its case against the accused
 beyond reasonable doubt through the testimonies of prosecution witnesses. 8. Ld. Defence Counsel, on the other hand, argued that accused is
 innocent and he has been falsely implicated in the present case. Accused
 has not committed any theft of electricity. It is further submitted that
 matter has already been settled with the complainant company and
 settlement amount has already been paid and an NOC has already been
 issued in favour of the accused. 9. Before proceeding further and before dealing with the factual
 aspects of the present case, it is deemed appropriate to firstly specify and
 discuss the relevant provision of the Act which is required to be gone into
 for appropriate disposal of the case. The present case pertains to sections
 135 / 150 of the Act. The provisions of sections 135 / 150 of the Electricity
 Act are reproduced as under:- 10. There is a presumption mentioned in the third proviso of Section
 135 (1) of the Electricity Act, 2003 which reads as follows:- 11. As per prosecution case, at the time of inspection, no electricity
 meter was available at the inspected premises and the user/accused Dilip
 (not traceable) was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through
 illegal wire. Accused Sonu Choudhary is the owner of the inspected
 premises and user/-co-accused Dilip was tenant in the said premises.
 Being owner of the inspected premises, accused Sonu Choudhary abetted
 the user/accused Dilip to commit direct theft of electricity. Thus, the onus
 was on the prosecution to prove these allegations against the accused
 persons beyond reasonable doubt. 12. PW2 Sh. Varun Sharma (DET) and PW3 Sh. Raju (Lineman) are

FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 9 of 16
 the material witnesses in this case. They have corroborated the allegations
 made in the complaint Ex.PW2/6 and their testimony is in conformity with
 the documents i.e. inspection report Ex.PW2/2, load report Ex.PW2/3 and
 seizure memo Ex.PW2/4. PW2 also brought on record the electricity bill
 as Ex.PW2/5. 13. PW1/IO ASI Adesh Kumar deposed that during investigation, it
 came to notice that accused is the owner of the inspected premises and at
 the time of inspection, co-accused Dilip was found occupying the
 inspected premises as a tenant of accused Sonu. 14. It is clear from the testimony of PW2 and PW3 that on
 13.10.2019, at about 12.15 pm, an inspection was carried out at the
 premises of accused by the inspecting team members/officials of
 complainant company and at the time of inspection, no electricity meter
 was available and this fact has not been disputed by the accused at all. It is
 further clear from the statement of PW1 as well as statement of accused
 recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C that the inspected premises belongs to accused
 Sonu Choudhary and at the time of inspection, co-accused Dilip (since not
 traced) was a tenant in the inspected premises and this fact has not been
 disputed at all by the accused Sonu Choudhary during cross-examination
 of PW1 as well as in his statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C . It is further clear that
 the user/accused was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through
 illegal wire and said illegal wire was removed by the lineman Sh. Raju and
 the factum of removal of illegal wire by lineman has not been disputed by
 the accused during cross-examination of PW2 and PW3. In his statement,
 accused Sonu Choudhary did not deny that there was no electricity meter

FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 10 of 16
 installed in the inspected premises. Inspection proceedings were recorded
 by videographer Sh. Parvesh and CD containing videography of the said
 inspection proceedings was brought on record as Ex.PW2/1. Perusal of
 cross-examination of PW2 and PW3 shows that though, the accused
 endevaoured to dispute the factum of inspection, preparation of inspection
 documents, seizure memo and videography of the inspection proceedings,
 however, he has not specifically disputed the factum of preparation of the
 relevant documents, the contents and authenticity of the inspection report
 and CD containing videography of the inspection proceedings. PW2 and
 PW3 have deposed that inspection documents were prepared at site in
 presence of co-accused Dilip and same were tendered to him but he
 refused to sign and accept the same and this fact has not been disputed by
 the accused during cross-examination of PW2 and PW3. Accused has also
 not specifically disputed the genuineness of assessment of load assessed
 by the complainant as mentioned in the load report Ex.PW2/3. During
 evidence, PW2 and PW3 identified the video recorded by videographer
 Sh. Parvesh. Accused has also not disputed the identity of the inspected
 premises shown in the video contained in the CD Ex.PW2/1. PW2 and
 PW3 also identified user/tenant Dilip in the said video and accused has not
 disputed this fact during cross-examination of this witness. Accused has
 also not disputed the inspected premises depicted in the video contained in
 the CD Ex.PW2/1. Thus, inspection proceedings conducted at the time of
 inspection, removal of wire from the spot, presence of co-accused Dilip
 and videography of inspection proceedings recorded by videographer Sh.
 Parvesh stand proved. FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 11 of 16 15. PW2 and PW3 have clearly deposed that accused/user was found
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. It is also clear
 from the statement of PW1 as well as statement of accused U/s 313 Cr.P.C that inspected premises belongs to accused Sonu Choudhary. It is also
 clear from the statement of PW1 and statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C that at the
 time of inspection, co-accused Dilip (could not be traced) was a tenant in
 the inspected premises. In case, accused Sonu Choudhary was unaware
 that co-accused Dilip has committed direct theft of electricity then he
 ought to have brought this fact to the notice of the complainant and he
 ought to have disassociated himself from the said illegal activity of the
 accused. However, it is clear that accused Sonu Choudhary did not take
 any action in this regard against the co-accused and his aforesaid conduct
 speaks for itself that he was well aware of the illegal act of the co-accused
 Dilip. Thus, under these facts and circumstances, it can be very well said
 that once the accused Sonu Choudhary had come to know about the said
 illegal activity on the part of the co-accused, he ought to have taken
 appropriate action against him and he was also duty bound to inform the
 complainant about the same, however, he did not do the needful which
 shows that accused Sonu Choudhary was fully aware of the said illegal
 activity being committed by the co-accused. Thus, under these
 circumstances, it can be very well said that accused Sonu Choudhary has
 abetted the offence of direct theft of electricity. Thus, in view of settled
 provision of section 150 of the Act, the accused Sonu Choudhary being the
 owner of the inspected premises is liable for the offence of abetment as he
 let the user/tenant Dilip (not traceable) commit direct theft of electricity

FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 12 of 16
 through illegal wire. Accused has simply denied the inspection and stated
 that he was not indulged in any type of theft of electricity and that the
 documents regarding the inspection proceedings were not prepared at the
 spot. Accused has not disputed the fact that the lineman removed the
 illegal wire through which the direct theft of electricity was being done by
 his tenant Dilip. Accused has neither disputed presence of the user/tenantD
 Dilip in the videography contained in the CD Ex.PW2/1 nor he has
 explained as to how he is appearing in the said CD if videography of the
 inspection proceeding was not done at the spot at the time of inspection.
 Furthermore, accused admitted that no electricity meter was available at
 his premises at the time of inspection. During evidence before the court,
 CD (Ex.PW2/1) containing video clip of inspection proceedings was
 played before the court which depicted the manner in which user/accused
 was indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. 16. In view of the statutory presumption mentioned in the third
 proviso of section 135 (1) of the Act, once the prosecution successfully
 establishes the charges against the accused regarding the theft of
 electricity, it is to be presumed that accused has committed theft of
 electricity unless accused brings some evidence on record to rebut the
 presumption. In view of the discussions made in the preceding paras, it is
 held that the prosecution has proved the charges against the accused that
 the user/co-accused Dilip (not arrested) who was tenant of accused, was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity and accused Sonu Choudhary was
 well aware of the same and therefore, in view of the third proviso of section 135 (1) of the Electricity Act 2003, it is to be presumed that

FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 13 of 16
 accused said user/co-accused Dilip (not arrested) was indulged in direct
 theft of electricity, in connivance with accused Sonu Choudhary, if they
 are unable to rebut the statutory presumption. 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case reported as '2001 (6) SCC
 16 titled as Hiten P. Dalal vs Bratindranath Banerjee ' has laid down
 the law related to the rebuttal of statutory presumption. Relevant portion
 of the para no.16 is reproduced as under:- 18. In view of the settled law, now it is to be seen if the accused has
 taken any defence to rebut the presumption existed against him. Accused
 has simply stated in his statement recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C that he is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case. He stated that he has
 already settled the dispute and settlement amount has already been paid by
 him and an NOC has also been issued. Accused did not lead any defence
 evidence. If the co-accused Dilip was not indulged in direct theft of
 electricity or that he was using the electricity through any legal means,
 then the accused Sonu Choudhary, who claimed himself to be landlord of
 the inspected premises, was liable to rebut the statutory presumption by
 disproving the allegations made in the complaint by leading relevant
 defence evidence. It is admitted position of fact that inspected premises
 was belonging to accused Sonu Choudhary at the relevant time, which was
 let out to co-accused Dilip (not traceable). It is clear from the evidence led
 by prosecution that at the time of inspection, co-accused Dilip (not

FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 14 of 16
 arrested) was found indulged in direct theft of electricity and he was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. Accused has not
 brought any material on record or lead any evidence to disprove all these
 allegations. Thus, it is held that accused has failed to rebut the statutory
 presumption. In this regard, this court is supported by the judgment of
 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi reported as 'Mukesh Rastogi vs North
 Delhi Power Limited' 2007 (99) DRJ108. The observations made by
 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi are reproduced as under:- 19. In view of aforesaid discussions, it is held that the prosecution
 has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the user/co-accused Dilip was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. It is also proved
 on record that the inspected premises was belonging to accused Sonu
 Choudhary at the time of inspection and he had let out the inspected
 premises to his tenant/user Dilip who was indulged in direct theft of
 electricity. Thus, accused Sonu Choudhary is guilty of abetment of offence
 of direct theft of electricity. Accordingly he is convicted for the offence

FIR No.510/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 15 of 16
 punishable U/s 135 r/w section 150 of the Electricity Act 2003. File be
 taken up again as and when user/co-accused Dilip is arrested.