1. The allegations against accused is that the complainant was employed in

 his shop in the year 2014 and after few weeks of employment, the accused

 used to make comments which complainant objected. Complainant further

 alleged that accused Virender once kissed her and she left his shop, but

 when he apologized, she returned to the work. Complainant further alleged

 that accused made her to consume alcohol and made her objectionable

 video in the trial room committing forceful oral sex with him. Complainant

 alleged that she transferred the said video on her phone and when she left

 for Palam railway station where Inspector stopped her and when she

 narrated the incident, the Inspector called accused Virender but same was

 not answered. Complainant further alleged that Inspector then called

 accused Mahender (elder brother of Virender) and on his persuasion she

 returned. Complainant then alleged that accused Virender apologized to her

 and agreed to give her one room on rent close to the garments shop and

 also offered that she should look after the garments shop. Complainant then

 alleged that in the year 2015, accused Virender started blackmailing her of

 making public her objectionable video and when she called the police, he

 slapped her. Complainant further alleged that then she came to known that

FIR No. 329 of 2016; P.S. Palam Village Pages 2 of 5 State v. Virender & Anr. the accused Virender was already married and kept her as per live-in

 partner. Complainant also alleged that she was emotionally and mentally

 harassed and whenever she made complaints, no action was taken as the

 accused Virender used to plead and create drama before her as well as

 police. Complainant even alleged that the police used to side with the

 accused Virender. Based on the said complaint, present FIR was registered

 under Section 376 / 506 / 509 / 34 IPC and on completion of investigation, the

 charge sheet. 2. On appearance of accused persons, Section 207 CrPC was complied with

 and matter was committed to the Court of Sessions for trial. Vide Order

 dated 24.03.2017 passed by the Ld. ASJ (FSTC), Dwarka Courts the Section 376 IPC was not made out and hence the matter was remanded

 back to this Court for trial. Arguments on charge were heard and charge

 vide order dt. 01.05.2017 u/s. 506 / 509 IPC were framed against accused

 persons Mahender and since no offence was made out against accused

 Virender Singh Rawar, he was discharged. 3. In order to bring home the guilt against the accused, prosecution has

 examined PW1 Dushmita on 11.10.2018 however same was deferred for

 next date. Since then there has been repeated summons issued to the

 complainant to appear and depose before the Court, however she has not

 presented herself despite receipt of summons. Even in her examination

FIR No. 329 of 2016; P.S. Palam Village Pages 3 of 5 State v. Virender & Anr. recorded which runs in five pages, all the allegations are against Virender

 Singh Rawat qua which Orders have already been passed discharging him

 of all allegations. Qua accused Mahender, the only deposition is "Accused

 Mahender also threatened me to kill". There is no other averment in the

 complaint or in the documents to prove the same. Even when the matter

 was adjourned to support the said allegation from any audio clip, the

 witness stopped appearing and therefore it can safely be said that she did

 not support the prosecution case. 4. The prosecution also examined PW Ct. Mahinder who exhibited register

 no.19 of sealed case property i.e. one micro SD 2GB card (black color) as

 Ex.P1. PW Dr. Arnab was also examined who identified the MCL of

 Virender Singh Rawat Ex.PW2/B dated 08.09.2016 and MLC of

 complainant Rimjhim as Ex.PW2/A. 5. This Court vide Order dated 14.11.2022 dropped the complainant

 Rimjhim @ Dushmita from the list of witness as she failed to depose

 despite opportunities being granted and later did not appear despite service

 of court processes. 6. From the records therefore, it is amply clear that the complainants and

 other material witnesses have been dropped and clearly they do not want to

 support the prosecution case, PE was closed as no fruitful purpose would

 have been served by examining other formal witnesses. Be that as it may,

FIR No. 329 of 2016; P.S. Palam Village Pages 4 of 5 State v. Virender & Anr. from the deposition on record there is nothing to substantiate the

 allegations against accused Mahender. There is no date or time when the

 threat was advanced. It is settled law that there is no criminal intimidation

 merely on words without proof of intention or any overt act. Considering

 the relations between the complainant and Virender, there may be an

 occasion for accused Mahender (brother of Virender) to have confronted

 complainant or there is even possibility that the complainant is

 exaggerating due to her strained relations and to put pressure on Virender.

 It is true however that the complainant has not appeared to complete her

 examination and chief and also to stand the cross examination. 7. In the facts and circumstances and keeping in view the testimony of the

 key witness, this court is of the opinion that offence has not been proved

 beyond reasonable doubts and accused cannot be held guilty. Therefore,

 benefit of doubt goes to the credit of accused and accordingly accused

 Mahender Singh Rawat stands acquitted for the offences u/s. 506 / 509 IPC. Digitally
 signed by
 PARAS PARAS DALAL
 Date: