SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The instant application under Section 439(2) read with Section
 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C .') has been
 filed on behalf of petitioner seeking cancellation of anticipatory bail
 granted to respondent no. 2, in case FIR bearing no. 162/2021,
 registered at Police Station Connaught Place, Delhi, under Sections
 376 / 376(2) K/506/201/120B of Indian Penal Code , 1860 (' IPC ') vide
 order dated 25.09.2021 passed by learned Special Judge, PC Act,
 CBI-23, Rouse Avenue, District Court, New Delhi ('Sessions
 Court'). 2. Brief facts of the case, as disclosed from the impugned order,
 are that the accused/respondent no. 2 herein was a sitting Member of
 Lok Sabha from Lok Janshakti Party and the
 petitioner/prosecutrixwas a political worker of Lok Janshakti Party,
 and had joined the same in December, 2019. Both the accused and
 the prosecutrix had lodged cross FIRs against each other. In the first
 FIR bearing no. 27/2021, P.S. Parliament Street, lodged by the
 accused against the prosecutrix, the allegations of extortion were
 levelled against the prosecutrix. In the FIR lodged by the accused, it
 was alleged that in the month of February, 2019, prosecutrix had met
 the accused at his residence in New Delhi as a political worker and
 had offered her assistance in the political field. Thereafter, both had
 exchanged the telephone numbers and had started spending time
 together. Thereafter, on 16.06.2020, the prosecutrix had insisted that
 she wanted to visit the accused and had given an impression to him
 that she really likes him. On 18.06.2020, the accused had gone to the
 house of the prosecutrix in Ghaziabad and there, she had seduced him
 to have physical relations with her. Thereafter, on couple of
 occasions, the accused and complainant had physical relations at her
 residence in Ghaziabad. In the month of August, 2020, the accused
 had come to know that the prosecutrix was already in relationship
 with one Amar. This fact had come to the knowledge of accused
 when he had received a call from Amar from the mobile phone of the
 prosecutrix. It is further alleged in the said FIR, that after the accused
 had come to know about the relationship of prosecutrix with Amar,
 he had started maintaining distance with the prosecutrix and used to Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 2630/2021 Page 2 of 12 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:14.02.2024 19:48:01 avoided making calls and sending messages to her. Thereafter, the
 prosecutrix along with her friend Amar had started sending
 threatening messages along with screenshots of video footage
 prepared by the prosecutrix during one of his visits at her residence in
 Ghaziabad. The prosecutrix and Amar had threatened the accused to
 upload the obscene video and pictures taken by the prosecutrix on
 social media platform in case Rs. l Crore was not paid to the
 prosecutrix. Both of them had also threatened to implicate him in a
 false case of rape. The accused under pressure and fear of being
 defamed in public had given Rs.2 lacs in cash in three-four
 installments to the prosecutrix, however, the demands of the
 prosecutrix did not end. Therefore, the accused was compelled to
 lodge the FIR bearing no. 27/2021, P.S. Parliament Street against the
 prosecutrix and her friend Amar for offence of extortion. Along with
 the complaint, the accused had also provided the copy of WhatsApp
 chats and transcription of audio recordings. The accused in the said
 FIR, who is the prosecutrix in the present FIR, was granted
 anticipatory bail in that case. As revealed, after three months of
 lodging of the FIR, prosecutrix herein had sent a complaint dated
 31.05.2021 through speed post to SHO, P.S. Parliament Street, New
 Delhi and thereafter, had further sent a complaint dated 28.06.2021 to
 the SHO, P.S. Connaught Place, New Delhi alleging that the
 prosecutrix had gone to meet the accused in his Western Court office
 in February, 2020 where she was offered a glass of water and after
 drinking the same, she had started feeling dizziness and had become
 unconscious. On regaining consciousness, she had found her head on Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 2630/2021 Page 3 of 12 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:14.02.2024 19:48:01 the shoulder of accused and when she had asked the accused as to
 what had happened, he told her that she had felt dizziness. Thereafter,
 in the month of March, 2020, she had again gone to the office of
 accused where he had started touching prosecutrix inappropriately,
 and when she objected to the same, the accused had shown a video to
 her in which accused was making physical relations with her. In the
 said video, face of the prosecutrix was clearly visible whereas face of
 the accused was hidden. Thereafter, accused had offered to marry her
 and threatened her that in case she did not comply with his demands,
 he will publish the obscene video of the prosecutrix. It was further
 alleged that on the basis of threat of uploading the obscene video of
 prosecutrix on social media, applicant/accused had physical relations
 with her on number of occasions at her residence in Ghaziabad. It is
 stated that to further threaten her and further to compel her to remain
 in physical relationship with him, accused also got removed banners
 and posters of the prosecutrix against which the prosecutrix had made
 a complaint in writing on 08.01.2021 to the President of Lok
 Janshakti Party. However, no action was taken on the said complaint.
 Therefore, prosecutrix left the said Party in February, 2021 and
 joined another political party i.e. Janta Dal United. It was also alleged
 that accused had got a false FIR lodged against the prosecutrix and
 during the course of investigation, police had conducted raid at her
 house and had seized her laptop and mobile phones, and she was also
 made to sign some blank papers in the police station. Based on the
 complaints dated 31.05.2021 and 28.06.2021, the SHO of PS
 Connaught Place had initiated inquiry into the allegations made by Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 2630/2021 Page 4 of 12 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:14.02.2024 19:48:01 prosecutrix which had been made after 16-17 months of delay. After
 inquiry, the police had concluded that allegations made by the
 prosecutrix did not inspire confidence and no cognizable offence was
 disclosed, and no action was taken on the complaint of the
 prosecutrix. Thereafter, the prosecutrix had approached the court of
 learned ACMM-1, RADC, New Delhi by filing an application under Section 156(3) of Cr.P.C. On 14.07.2021, after calling Action Taken
 Report from PS Connaught Place, the learned ACMM had directed
 the SHO, PS Connaught Place to register an FIR against the
 accused/respondent no. 2. Accordingly, the present FIR was
 registered against the accused for commission of offence of rape,
 criminal intimidation and destruction of evidence, and the
 investigation was conducted. 3. Vide order dated 25.09.2021, which has been impugned before
 this Court, the accused/respondent no. 2 was granted anticipatory bail
 by the learned Sessions Court. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant i.e. the prosecutrix argues
 that the respondent no. 2 was granted anticipatory bail by the learned
 Sessions Court in a serious offence. It is stated that the learned
 Sessions Court has failed to consider that the respondent no. 2 has
 been constantly threatening the petitioner herein and that on
 11.09.2023, glass of her car was broken and some documents were
 stolen along with some money, and the matter was also reported to
 the police. It is stated that her new car was also dragged and damaged
 by a huge stone by motorcyclists who could not be traced. It is
 further submitted that respondent no. 2 is also delaying the trial of the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 2630/2021 Page 5 of 12 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:14.02.2024 19:48:01 case. It is also stated that the learned Trial Court has
 examined/allowed cross-examination in contravention of guidelines
 issued by the Hon'ble Apex Court, in the open Court. It is also
 argued that the petitioner is a young social worker and that she had
 not imagined that by the administering stupefying substance to her,
 she will be sexually assaulted. It is argued that just because the
 accused is a Member of Parliament, the police as well as the Court
 below has not followed the law. It is further argued that FIR No.
 27/2021 was registered against the prosecutrix by the accused on
 10.02.2021, only in order to silence her, though she was granted
 anticipatory bail in that case. It is stated that due to the influence of
 the accused, who is a highly influential MP, the accused has escaped
 the law and was granted anticipatory bail. It is stated that the
 respondent no. 2 is still posting contents on social media presenting
 himself to be innocent and projecting that the victim is a blackmailer,
 extortionist and a honey trapper, and therefore, the bail granted to the
 accused be cancelled. 5. Learned counsel for respondent no. 2, on the other hand,
 argues that bail in this case was granted by a well-reasoned order
 passed by the learned Sessions Court, after considering all the facts
 and circumstances of the case. It is stated that accused/respondent no.
 2 was falsely implicated in this case by the petitioner, and the present
 FIR was lodged after the respondent no. 2 had first got an FIR
 registered against the petitioner for her alleged acts of extortion. It is
 further submitted that police had filed a closure report in this case
 after completion of investigation, however, the learned Trial Court Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 2630/2021 Page 6 of 12 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:14.02.2024 19:48:01 had issued summons against the accused, and thereafter, those
 summons were also quashed by the superior court. In these
 circumstances, it is prayed that present application be dismissed. 6. This Court has heard arguments addressed on behalf of learned
 counsel for the petitioner as well as learned APP for the State and has
 perused the material available on record. 7. The law regarding cancellation of bail stands well-settled
 through judicial precedents of the Hon'ble Apex Court, which also
 lay down the principles and circumstances under which the bail
 granted to an accused can be cancelled. In this regard, the
 observations of Hon'ble Apex Court in Deepak Yadav v. State of
 Uttar Pradesh (2022) 8 SCC 559,on law regarding cancellation of
 bail, are reproduced as under: 31. It is no doubt true that cancellation of bail cannot be
 limited to the occurrence of supervening circumstances. This
 Court certainly has the inherent powers and discretion to
 cancel the bail of an accused even in the absence of
 supervening circumstances. Following are the illustrative
 circumstances where the bail can be cancelled:-- 32. In Neeru Yadav v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2014) 16 SCC
 508, the accused was granted bail by the High Court. In an
 appeal against the order of the High Court, a two-Judge
 Bench of this Court examined the precedents on the
 principles that guide grant of bail and observed as under:-- 8. The law on point was also summed by the Hon'ble Apex Court
 in case of P v. State of Madhya Pradesh 2022 SCC OnLine SC
 552 through following observations: 9. As held by Hon'ble Apex Court in Central Bureau of
 Investigation v. Subramani Gopalakrishnan (2011) 5 SCC 296, bail
 once granted should not be cancelled in a mechanical manner without
 considering whether any supervening circumstances have rendered it
 no longer conducive to a fair trial to allow the accused to retain his
 freedom by enjoying the concession of bail during the trial. Similarly,
 it would also be relevant to take note of the following observations of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mehboob Dawood Shaikh v. State of
 Maharashtra (2004) 2 SCC 362: 10. In the present case, the accused/respondent no. 2 was granted
 anticipatory bail, in a nutshell, on the following grounds: (i) that
 there is unreasonable delay in lodging the FIR by the prosecutrix, (ii)
 the present FIR has been lodged by the prosecutrix as the
 counterblast to the FIR no. 27/2021, P.S. Parliament Street lodged by
 the accused against the prosecutrix way back in February, 2021, (iii)
 admission made by the prosecutrix that the relationship between her
 and the accused was consensual as per the transcript and audio
 recordings dated 27.08.2020 played in the court, (iv) there was no
 requirement of custodial interrogation of accused, (v) absence of any
 entry in the Western register of Western Court, New Delhi regarding
 the visit of the prosecutrix on the date of incident and thereafter, in
 the month of March, 2020 despite her specific assertions that she had
 made entry in this regard in the register. Learned Sessions Court had
 also observed that the accused had clean antecedents and the IO had
 confirmed that there was no other case pending against him. The
 Court had also observed that there was remote likelihood of accused
 of repeating the similar or any other offence as he is a sitting Member
 of Lok Sabha and he will not jeopardize his chance to get re-elected
 by committing similar or any other offence. Learned Sessions Court Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 2630/2021 Page 10 of 12 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:14.02.2024 19:48:01 also held that the discussion made in the order regarding the absence
 of entries, etc., and the audio recording and transcript thereof played
 in the court showed that she was trying to threaten the applicant to
 defame him by circulating his pictures and videos which were in her
 possession, and the same prima facie established that there was
 possibility of false implication of the accused, and thus, the accused
 was granted anticipatory bail. 11. Having taken note of the law on cancellation of bail, this Court
 notes that as far as the contention of the learned counsel for the
 prosecutrix that the learned Sessions Court had granted anticipatory
 bail to the accused as he was a sitting Member of Parliament is
 concerned, this Court notes that the order for grant of anticipatory
 bail is a detailed and reasoned order. Even if the accused is a sitting
 Member of Parliament, the same is not the criteria or reason for grant
 of bail to the accused. In preceding paragraph, this Court has already
 discussed the reasons given by the learned Sessions Court while
 granting bail to the accused. The anticipatory bail order was passed
 on the basis of material collected and placed on record i.e. the audio
 recordings and the transcript thereof which have been discussed in
 the order itself along with other material regarding an FIR regarding
 extortion registered against prosecutrix prior in time. Therefore, in
 this Court's opinion, there is no infirmity in the order dated
 25.09.2021 passed by learned Sessions Court. 12. As regards other grounds raised by the petitioner/prosecutrix
 that her car was attacked by the accused, no material has come on
 record which would show that such acts were committed by the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 2630/2021 Page 11 of 12 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:14.02.2024 19:48:01 respondent no. 2 or by other persons at his behest. The prosecutrix
 herein has also alleged that the accused was posting inappropriate
 messages and content against her on the social media even after,
 however, nothing has been filed on record to substantiate the same.
 Needless to say, the accused has to abide by the conditions which
 have been imposed upon him by way of impugned order. 13. The bail in this case was granted in the year 2021 vide order
 dated 25.09.2021, by a detailed order. There is no subsequent event
 shown to this Court which warrants any interference with the order
 granting bail to the accused persons. Considering the same, this Court
 is not inclined to cancel the anticipatory bail granted to the accused
 which should not be cancelled on mere asking as an individual's right
 to liberty is a crucial right which cannot be interfered with lightly. 14. However, the prosecutrix will be at liberty to approach the
 Witness Protection Committee, in case of any threat being extended
 to her. The SHO of concerned Police Station will also ensure that
 prompt action is taken, upon receipt of any complaint, if any threat is
 extended to the prosecutrix, in accordance with law. 15. In view of the foregoing discussion, the present petition stands
 dismissed. 16. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 JANUARY 30, 2024/zp Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 2630/2021 Page 12 of 12 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:14.02.2024 19:48:01