( Pronounced on the 20th day of September 2024 )

Brief case of the prosecution: The deceased was brought to the hospital by her brother-in-law (jeth)
Mahesh and the concerned doctor had declared her as brought dead. 2. After registration of the DD no. 32A, Ex. PW7/A, ASI Raj Kumar
and Ct. Praveen Kumar reached the hospital and obtained the MLC no.
4882/14, Ex. PW30/A, wherein, the deceased was declared to be brought
dead. In the hospital, the Inquiry Officer ASI Raj Kumar met the jeth of
the deceased namely accused Mahesh Kumar, the saas of the deceased
namely Vikram Devi @ Krishana and other family members. Upon
inquiry, it was revealed that the deceased got married to the accused
Sandeep in the year 2012. 3. Thereafter, ASI Raj Kumar left for the scene of occurrence, i.e. H.
No. E-180, Gali no.5, Subhash Vihar, Bhajanpura, Delhi and upon
reaching there, he made enquiries and called the crime team to the spot. material, i.e. the chunni was seized by him and after preparing its
pullanda, it was deposited in the Malkhana. 4. Thereafter, on 01.12.2014, the further enquiry was marked to SI
Pravesh and the Inquiry Officer produced the uncles of the deceased
namely Pramod Kumar and Satender Kumar before the concerned SDM.
The concerned SDM then recorded the statements Ex. PW2/A and Ex.
PW6/A. The inquest papers were prepared and the postmortem of
deceased Nisha was conducted at GTB hospital. Upon the endorsement
made by the concerned SDM on the statement of Sh. Pramod Kumar Ex.
PW2/A, the present case FIR was registered u/s 304-B / 498-A / 34 IPC,
1860. 5. In the statement recorded before the SDM, PW2 Pramod Kumar
had stated that the deceased Nisha was the daughter of his elder brother
Devendra. His elder brother was residing in village Kamala, Dist.
Baghpat, UP and since her childhood, deceased Nisha was residing with
him in Delhi. The marriage of deceased Nisha with accused Sandeep was
also solemnized by him in the year 2012, according to hindu rites and
ceremonies. 6. It was further stated by the uncle of the deceased, PW2 Pramod
Kumar that around 8 days prior to the date of marriage, accused Vikram
Devi @ Krishana, who was the saas of the deceased had called him and
raised a demand of a car, by telling him that even a boy belonging to the
naai community from their locality was given a Wagon-R car and that Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 7. It was further stated by the uncle of the deceased, PW2 Pramod
Kumar that in spite of meeting all the demands of the accused persons,
the sasur of the deceased namely accused Jagat Singh, saas of the
deceased namely accused Vikram Devi @ Krishana, jeth of the deceased
namely Mahesh and the nanads of the deceased namely accused Rekha
and Alka started ill treating his niece after the marriage. The said
accused persons gave beatings to his niece Nisha on number of
occasions. All the said accused persons continued to demand dowry from
PW2. 8. It was further stated by the uncle of the deceased, PW2 Pramod
Kumar that the marriage of accused Rekha took place prior to the
marriage of deceased Nisha with accused Sandeep, however, since the
matrimonial house of accused Rekha was situated nearby the
matrimonial house of the deceased, accused Rekha was having a lot of
involvement in her parental house. Furthermore, accused Alka was
unmarried at the time of the marriage of his niece Nisha and her
marriage took place after accused Sandeep got married with his niece.
Accused Alka had also misbehaved with his niece Nisha, prior to and
even after her marriage and she would support her family members in
raising dowry demands from PW2. 9. It was further stated by the uncle of the deceased, PW2 Pramod
Kumar that in the year 2013, his niece Nisha gave birth to a baby boy.
When the said child was only one month old, accused Sandeep dropped
his niece Nisha and her child at the house of PW2 in Joharipur. His niece
Nisha stayed there for about 6 months and PW2 and his other family
members were loosing their face before the society, since his niece Nisha
and her new born child were left by accused Sandeep at her parental
house. When PW2 requested the accused Sandeep to his wife and child
back, he raised a demand of Rs. 2 lacs and told PW2 that until his
demands are met, he was not going to take them back home. Somehow,
PW2 managed to arrange the money and accused Sandeep took his wife
and child back, only after he had received the said amount of Rs. 2 lacs. 10. It was further stated by the uncle of the deceased, PW2 Pramod
Kumar that on 28.11.2014, accused Sandeep had called PW2 and he
made him talk to his niece Nisha, and his niece told him that her nanads
accused Rekha and Alka had come to her matrimonial house and accused
Sandeep, his mother accused Krishana, his father accused Jagat Singh
and the nanads were giving her beatings and the accused persons had
told her that accused Sandeep did not have any job and that she should
get some money from PW2, so that accused Sandeep could start some
business. On hearing this, PW2 told his niece Nisha that he wished to
speak to accused Sandeep and when he came over the phone, PW2
requested him that he would come to their house and they would sit
down and talk about the issue. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 7/110 11. It was further stated by the uncle of the deceased, PW2 Pramod
Kumar that on 30.11.2014, PW2 and his younger brother Neeraj went to
the matrimonial house of deceased Nisha and he saw that outside their
house, number of public persons had gathered. When PW2 went inside
the house, he found that all the lights in the said house were switched off
and accused Sandeep and his family members were not present there
except for the jethani of deceased Nisha, who upon the inquiry raised by
the PW2, told him that Nisha had gone to the hospital. When PW2 came
out of the house of accused Sandeep, one lady who was residing in the
said neighbourhood gave him a phone number of one person and she
also asked PW2 to give a call on the said phone number. When PW2
called on the said number, the person who had answered the call
informed PW2 that they were in GTB hospital and deceased Nisha was
admitted in the emergency ward and her condition was very serious. 12. It was further stated by the uncle of the deceased, PW2 Pramod
Kumar that when PW2 reached GTB Hospital, he found out that his
niece Nisha had already expired. At that time, accused Sandeep and his
family members were nowhere to be seen and PW2 suspected that his
niece has been killed by the accused persons. 13. After the registration of the present case FIR on 01.12.2014, the
investigation was conducted by the IO and after completion of the same
the chargesheet was filed before the court of Ld. MM. After compliance
of section 207 / 208 Cr.PC, the case was committed by the Court of Ld.
MM before this court on 27.03.2015. Thereafter, the charges were Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 14. To prove its case, the prosecution has examined thirty one (31)
witnesses: PW2/E to Ex. PW2/J were prepared in his presence. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 13/110
 conducted by Ld. Defense counsel that he has three brothers and that he
had studied upto 8th standard. He further deposed that he could not tell
the date of birth of deceased Nisha. He could not tell the date, month and
year when deceased Nisha was orally adopted by him. He admitted that
Devendra Singh is his elder brother and he was reisiding at village
Kamala, Baghpat, UP and after adoption, Nisha stayed at the house of
his mama at village Budhedha for about 6-7 years and thereafter he
brought her to his house in Delhi. (14.2.12) PW2 had further deposed at the time of his cross examination
conducted by Ld. Defense counsel that at the time of recording of his
statement Ex. PW2/A, he had mentioned the date of the phone call
received by his brother as 29.11.2014. He was confronted with the same,
where it was stated to be 28.11.2014. He was also confronted with his
earlier statements Ex. PW2/DA to Ex. PW2/DF where it was also
recorded as 28.11.2014. (14.2.13) PW2 had further deposed at the time of his cross examination
conducted by the Ld. Defense counsel that accused Sandeep had made a
demand of Rs. 2 lacs from him over a telephonic call, when he requested
accused Sandeep to take the deceased back to her matrimonial house. He
further deposed that he was running a tractor trolly for his livelihood and
was earning about 20,000-25,000/- per month and that he had to sell his
land to repay his cousin for the loan amount of Rs. 2 lacs. The said land
being sold by him belonged to him and his brothers jointly. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (14.4.1) PW4 is Ct. Mukesh and he had deposed that on 07.01.2015, he
was posted at PS Bhajan Pura and on that day he was handed over one
sealed parcel i.e wooden box containing the viscera of deceased, one
sealed envelop containing PM report and sample seal by MHCM. He
took the said parcels and sample seal to FSL, Rohini vide RC No.
128/21/15 and deposited the same there. After depositing the above said
parcels, he handed over the acknowledgment receipt to MHC(M). Till
the time the above said parcels remained in his custody the same were
not tampered with. (14.5.1) PW 5 is W/Ct. Renu Singh and she had deposed that on
11.01.02015, she had joined the investigation of the present case and on
that day at about 1.20 PM, accused Rekha and Alka were arrested by the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (14.6.12) PW6 Satender had further deposed during the cross
examination that his brother Pramod had adopted Nisha, when she was a
child. He further deposed that he was residing with his brother Pramod at
Johripur, Delhi and deceased Nisha used to reside with them till her
marriage with accused Sandeep. He further deposed that the deceased
had studied in Village Budhedha i.e. the native village of his maternal
uncle, till she completed class 7 th. He categorically denied the suggestion
that his brother Pramod forcefully got the deceased married against her
consent, when she was still a minor and was aged about 15 ½ years. (14.6.13) PW6 Satender had further deposed during the cross
examination that he had not made any complaint to the police, prior to
the incident in question qua the beatings given to her by accused
Sandeep and his family members. He did not remember the exact date, Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT Date: (14.9.2) PW9 Devendra Kumar further deposed that around 7 days prior
to the marriage of his daughter Nisha, he had received a phone call from
his younger brother Pramod and he was being told by his brother Pramod
that the mother of accused Sandeep (accused Vikram Devi @ Krishana)
had called him and told him that in the marriage of the son of a barber
from their locality, a Wagon-R car was given and she had also raised a
demand of a car in the marriage of her son with Nisha. Thereafter, his
brother Pramod had given an Alto car in the marriage, as per the demand
raised by the accused Vikram Devi @ Krishana. (14.9.3) PW9 Devendra Kumar further deposed that after the marriage,
the mother-in-law, father-in-law, nanad, jeth and husband of his daughter
Nisha started harassing her for not bringing enough cash in the marriage. Digitally

The accused persons used to demand money for opening a business for ATUL
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: After reaching back at his village, he had not told the family members of
deceased about the fact that he had seen Nisha weeping at her
matrimonial house or that she had told him of the harassment suffered by
her at the hands of her husband and other in-laws on the account of
dowry demands. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 31/110
 (14.13.1) PW13 is Mannu and he is the uncle of the father of the
deceased. He had deposed that Nisha was the daughter of Devendra and
Pramod is the brother of Devendra. Nisha was residing with the family
of Pramod prior to her marriage in village Budhera. He had attended the
marriage of Nisha with accused Sandeep. After about 1 year of their
marriage, it came to his notice, through PW2 Pramod and PW9
Devendra that she was being harassed by her in-laws on account of
dowry demands and that they used to demand dowry from her, to start
the business for accused Sandeep. His nephews further informed him
that once accused Sandeep had left Nisha and her new born son at her
parental house. (14.13.2) PW13 Mannu and he had deposed that he used to talk to
Nisha, whenever she used to visit the house of her uncle PW2 Pramod in
Budheda. The deceased used to complain against her husband and her in-
laws regarding demands of dowry. (14.13.3) PW13 Mannu during his cross examination conducted by Ld.
Defense counsel had deposed that the statement was recorded in the PS,
about 2-3 days after receiving the news of the death of Nisha over a
telephonic call. The PW13 was contradicted with his statement Ex.
PW13/DA, where it was not so recorded that whenever she used to visit
her parental home, she used to tell him about the harassment suffered by
her. He further deposed that the deceased might have been around 18
years old at the time of her marriage. He further denied all the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: He met Sh. L. S. Yadav, SDM there. PW2 Pramod Kumar and
PW6 Satender Kumar, who are the uncles of the deceased met him in
the hospital and he produced them before the SDM and their statements
Ex. PW2/A and Ex. PW6/A were recorded. Thereafter, the SDM
concerned filled up the inquest paper and after getting the established the
identity of the dead body established, the postmortem was got conducted Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: PW15/A.

(14.15.3) PW15 SI Pravesh Kumar during his cross examination
conducted by the Ld. Defense counsel had deposed that the SDM had
recorded the statement of Pramod Kumar Ex. PW2/A at the GTB
hospital itself. He admitted the suggestion that the family members of
the deceased, from her parental side were present in the hospital when
the statements of PW2 Pramod and PW6 Satender were recorded by the
concerned SDM. (14.16.1) PW16 is W/Ct. Reena and she deposed that on 04.12.2014, she
along with Ct. Krishan Kumar and complainant Pramod Kumar had Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT

joined the investigation of the present case and went to the matrimonial
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT Date: PP for the State had put a leading question to the witness with the
permission of this court and in answer to the said question he had
admitted that the accused Mahesh was arrested on 09.02.2015 and not on
01.12.2016. Digitally

(14.20.1) PW20 is HC Sanjay Kumar and he is the Crime Team
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (14.22.2) PW-22 Sh. L.S. Yadav during his cross examination conducted
by Ld. Defense counsel had deposed that PW2 Pramod and PW6
Satender came to his office at about 11.00 AM and he recorded their
statements in his office itself. Thereafter, he had gone to mortuary of
GTB Hospital and about 2.30-3.00 PM. In the room where the statement
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (14.30.1) PW30 is Dr. Shivesh Pandey, CMO, GTB Hospital. He had
deposed on behalf of Dr. Sudhir Kumar. Through his testimony MLC no.
C4882/14 of patient Nisha, who was brought to main casualty in
unconscious and unresponsive state with alleged history of hanging was
brought on record as Ex. PW30/A. In the said MLC the concerned doctor
had recorded the injuries on the body of the patient as "Bruises mark at
anterior aspect of neck". Digitally
 signed by
 rd
(14.31.1) PW-31 is Retd. Inspector Jaswant Singh and he is the 3 IO of
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: PW2/G. Her personal search was conducted through W/Ct. Renu vide
memo Ex. PW2/H and she made her disclosure statement Ex. PW31/A.
He recorded the statement of witnesses and both the accused Sandeep
and Vikram Devi @ Krishana were sent to JC after their medical
examination. (14.31.3) PW-31 Retd. Inspector Jaswant Singh had deposed that on
06.12.2014, he collected the postmortem report of deceased and placed
the same on record. On 03.01.2015, SI Parvesh went to mortuary of GTB
hospital and collected the exhibits vide seizure memo and deposited the
same with MHC(M). On 07.01.2015, the exhibits were sent to FSL Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: PW19/A and thereafter he was sent to JC after his medical examination. (14.31.5) PW-31 Retd. Inspector Jaswant Singh had deposed that On
12.02.2015, he went to scene of crime i.e. H.No. E-180, Gali No.5,
Subhash Vihar, Bhajanpura, Delhi, where he met Akshit and he prepared
the site plan Ex. PW11/A at his instance. On 22.02.2015, complainant
Pramod Kumar came to the PS and handed over marriage card and list of
dowry articles Ex. PX-6 (colly) and the same were seized by him. (14.31.6) PW-31 Retd. Inspector Jaswant Singh had deposed that On
26.02.2015, the ligature materials was sent to Ct. Mukesh vide RC No.
28/21/15 to GTB hospital for subsequent opinion with an application. Ct.
Mahesh deposited the same in mortuary of GTB hospital. Thereafter, he
recorded the statement of witnesses and placed all the documents on
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (14.31.8) PW-31 Retd. Inspector Jaswant Singh during his cross
examination conducted by Ld. Defense counsel had deposed that he did
not remember the exact date and time when he recorded the statement of
PW2 Pramod and PW6 Satender. He received the CDR on 26.01.2015
and the supplementary statement was recorded on the same day. He
categorically denied all the other suggestions being put to him that he
had not conducted a fare and proper investigation and that the disclosure
statement was recorded by him on his own. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 46/110
 Admitted documents and Defense Evidence: (17.2.2) DW-2 Kanwar Pal Singh during his cross examination
conducted by Ld. Substitute Addl. PP for the State deposed that he did
not have any personal knowledge of the present case. All the entries in
their school register were made on the basis of the School Leaving
Certificate Ex. DW2/C issued by her previous school and that he had
personally got the same verified from the said previous school. 18. I have heard the arguments advanced by Sh. Kamal Akhter, Ld.
Additional PP for the State, duly assisted by Sh. Yoginder Singh, Ld.
Counsel for the complainant and Sh. R. K. Choudhary, Ld. Counsel for
accused persons. I have also minutely gone through the evidence brought
on record and the material aspects of the case. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 51/110
 Submissions made on behalf of the State: 19. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State, duly assisted
by Ld. Counsel for the complainant that in the present case the
prosecution has been able to discharge its burden that the death of
deceased Nisha was caused otherwise than under normal circumstances
and such death had occurred within 7 years of her marriage with accused
Sandeep. Furthermore, it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt from
the testimony of the prosecution witnesses that soon before her death,
deceased Nisha was subjected to cruelty and harassment by her husband
and other relatives of the husband. Furthermore, the prosecution has also
discharged the burden that such cruelty and harassment was meted out to
the deceased in connection with the demand of dowry. Therefore, all the
essential ingredients of section 304-B IPC, 1860 has been fully satisfied
in the present case. 20. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State, duly assisted
by Ld. Counsel for the complainant that the presumption enshrined u/s
113-B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, is a presumption of law and
once the prosecution was able to establish from the facts of the present
case, the essential ingredients of the offence punishable u/s 304-B that
the death took place within 7 years of marriage and soon before her
death the deceased was subjected to cruelty relating to dowry demands
was duly proved by the prosecution, therefore, a duty was cast upon this
court to raise a presumption that the accused persons had caused the
dowry death of Nisha. The testimony of the star prosecution witnesses Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 21. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State, duly assisted by
Ld. Counsel for the complainant that the prosecution has proved beyond
reasonable doubt that prior the deceased Nisha hanging herself by tying a
chunni around her neck and by tying other end of the chunni on the
ceiling fan of her room and she was subjected to harassment due to
dowry demands. The prosecution has also been able to prove that the
offence was committed in the dwelling house, where the accused
persons also resided and in the present case, the offence took place
behind the closed doors of the matrimonial house of the deceased and
therefore, the burden of proof upon the prosecution was lighter, In view
of section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, since the circumstances
around the death of the deceased was especially within the knowledge of
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 22. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State, duly assisted
by Ld. Counsel for the complainant that the phone calls received by PW6
Satender from the mobile no. of the accused Sandeep on 29.11.2014 and
the phone call made on the said mobile phone of the accused Sandeep by
PW2 Pramod Kumar on the same day, wherein, the deceased disclosed
about the beatings given to her by the accused persons and cruelty and
harassment meted out to her on the demands of dowry, constitute dying
declaration and the accused persons could be convicted solely on the
basis of the said dying declaration itself. 23. It is further submitted by the Ld. Addl. PP for the state that the
identity of the accused persons were fully established in the present case
as they were duly identified by all the prosecution witnesses before the
Court. 24. In support of his contentions, the Ld. Addl. PP for the State, duly
assisted by the Ld. Counsel for the complainant had relied upon the
decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in " Appasaheb & Anr.
Vs. State of Maharashtra " 2007 ( 1) JCC 147, "Charan Singh @ Charanjit
Singh Vs. The State of Uttarakhand " 2023 LiveLaw SC 341 and "Sunil
Kundu & Anr. Vs. State of Jharkhand " (2013) 4 SCC 422. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 54/110
 Submissions made on behalf of the accused persons: 25. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that the deceased was aged less than 18 years at the time of her marriage
with accused Sandeep. The said fact has been duly proved by the defense
through the evidence of DW2 Kanwar Pal Singh. In his testimony, DW2
brought on record the Scholars Register and Transfer Certificate Form
and on the relevant stage, at serial no. 5160 the entry pertaining to
deceased Nisha was duly recorded and as per the said entry Ex. DW-2/A,
deceased Nisha took admission in their school on 14.07.2007 and she left
the said school on 30.06.2011. As per the said entry, the date of birth of
deceased Nisha was 01.07.1996. The said entry Ex. DW-2/A was
registered on the basis of school admission application Ex. DW-2/B and
the passing certificate issued from her previous school dated 10.07.2007
Ex. DW-2/C. Therefore, on 19.04.2012, the deceased was less than 16
years of age. Furthermore, it was argued by the Ld. Defense counsel that
the marriage of the deceased Nisha was solemnized by her family
members against her wish and consent. Deceased Nisha was not happy
with the said marriage with accused Sandeep and therefore, she
committed suicide by hanging herself. It was only after her death by
suicide, her family members have leveled false allegations against the
accused persons and no dowry was ever demanded by the accused
persons and no cruelty was committed by them upon the deceased. 26. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that the charges in the present case were framed on 28.01.2016 and in
spite of number of summons being sent to the public witnesses belonging Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 27. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that in the present case the prosecution has failed miserably to satisfy the
most essential ingredient of the offence punishable u/s 304-B IPC, 1860,
i.e. " soon before the death" the deceased was subjected to cruelty on
the demands of dowry. The prosecution through the testimonies of PW2
Pramod Kumar and PW6 Satender Kumar tried to prove that accused
Sandeep had telephonically contacted them on 28.11.2014. Furthermore,
as per the case of the prosecution, accused Sandeep made them talk to
the deceased and at that time the deceased had disclosed about the
harassment and torture meted out to her on that day by the accused
persons. However, from the testimony of PW28 Ajeet Singh, CDR of the
mobile phone of the accused Sandeep was brought on record and no such
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 28. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that the prosecution could not prove the subsequent opinion about the
hanging, since the concerned doctor who had given the second opinion
was never cited as one of the prosecution witnesses. The reason behind
the same was that the said second opinion was not supporting the case of
the prosecution. 29. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that from the testimonies of PW2 Pramod Kumar and PW6 Satender
Kumar only general and cryptic allegations have been leveled against the
accused persons. There are no specific incidents that have come to light
through their testimonies and from the deposition of prosecution
witnesses, it has not come on record, the manner in which the alleged
cruelty was committed upon the deceased, so as to drive her to commit
the suicide. 30. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that there are number of material improvements and contradictions in the
testimony of two star prosecution witnesses PW2 Pramod Kumar and
PW6 Satender and they cannot be considered as sterling witnesses. Both
the said witnesses could not withstand the rigors of the cross
examination conducted by Ld. Defense counsel. 31. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 32. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that the prosecution could not prove that the alleged demand of Rs. 2
lacs constituted as a dowry demand, since it is the case of the
prosecution itself that the said demand was allegedly raised by the
accused persons to enable accused Sandeep to start a new business.
Furthermore, there are material improvements and contradictions in the
testimony of PW2 Pramod Kumar and PW6 Satender in this regard. 33. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that the star prosecution witness PW2 Pramod Kumar is not a reliable
witness. In his examination in chief, he has deposed that the marriage of Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 34. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that as per the prosecution version, deceased Nisha was adopted by her
chacha PW2 Pramod Kumar. However, during his cross examination,
PW2 Pramod Kumar could neither tell about the date of birth of the
decease nor could he depose about the date the alleged adoption.
Similarly, the other chacha of the deceased PW6 Satender had also
deposed that he was not aware of the date of birth of the deceased, in
spite of deposing before the court that the deceased was living in their
house with them. Furthermore, all the prosecution witnesses PW2
Pramod Kumar, PW6 Satender and PW9 Devendra have categorically
deposed that the deceased was around 18-19 years at the time of her
marriage. However, it was categorically brought on record through the
testimony of DW2 Kanwar Pal Singh that the date of birth of the
deceased was 01.07.1996, thereby, making her less than 16 years at the
time of her marriage. 35. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that there is a material contradiction between the testimony of PW2
Pramod Kumar, wherein he had deposed that the deceased stayed at the
house of his mama at village Budheda for about 6-7 years and thereafter,
she was brought to Delhi to live with him and his brother PW6 Satender. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 59/110
 childhood, deceased Nisha was residing with his brother PW2 Pramod
Kumar. However, the father of the deceased PW9 Devendra had
deposed that his daughter remained with his brother PW2 Pramod
Kumar at village Budheda, till she was about 12 years old. 36. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that there are material improvements and contradictions in the testimony
of PW2 Pramod Kumar qua the dowry demand of Rs. 2 lacs raised by
the accused persons and when the said demand was satisfied by him. He
could not prove the source from which he had arranged the said amount
and also could not depose the mixture of currency denomination. As per
the prosecution story, it was the cousin brother of PW2, namely PW10
Rajesh Kumar who had allegedly given a loan of Rs. 2 lacs to PW2,
however, in his cross examination PW10 had admitted that he could
manage to save only Rs. 4,000/- per month from his salary at that time. 37. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that there was no previous complaint filed by the family members of the
deceased regarding the alleged dowry demands or the torture meted out
to the deceased at the hands of the accused persons. 38. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that there are material contradictions amongst the star prosecution
witnesses, on the aspect of who had raised the dowry demands. As per
PW2 Pramod Kumar, the demand of Rs. 2 lacs was raised by accused
Sandeep alone. However, PW6 Satender had deposed that all the accused Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 39. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that there are contradictions in the inter-se testimony of the prosecution
witnesses with respect to who all were present at GTB hospital on the
date of the incident. As per the father of the deceased PW9 Devendra, he
met accused Mahesh at the hospital and no other family member of the
accused Sandeep was present there besides accused Mahesh. However,
PW2 Pramod Kumar had deposed that no one from the family of the
accused persons was present in the hospital. However, the IO PW14 SI
Raj Kumar had deposed that when he reached the hospital for the first
time, accused Mahesh and his mother (accused Vikram Devi @
Krishana) were present. 40. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that it has come in the testimony of PW10 Rajesh Kumar, who had
allegedly lent Rs. 2 lacs to PW2 Pramod Kumar, that he was being
informed by PW2 Pramod Kumar that the said amount of money was
required by him to be given to accused Sandeep for his
employment/business, however, he had not deposed anywhere that PW2
had informed him that deceased Nisha was being harassed by accused
Sandeep on the account of dowry demands. 41. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that the testimony of PW12 Sonu Kumar is also not trustworthy, since Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 42. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that testimony of PW13 Mannu is also of no material relevance, since he
is only a hear-say witness and he had merely deposed as to what was
being told to him by his nephews PW2 Pramod and PW9 Devendra. 43. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense counsel for the accused persons
that there are material contradictions in the testimony of the prosecution
witnesses, in so far as the place where the statements Ex. PW2/A and Ex.
PW6/A were recorded by the concerned SDM. It has come in the
testimony of PW15 SI Pravesh Kumar that the concerned SDM had
recorded the statements of PW2 Pramod Kumar and PW6 Satender in the
GTB hospital. However, in the testimony of PW18 Ct. Monu, it has
come that on 30.11.2014, he went to the SDM office and the statements
of PW2 and PW6 were recorded there. 44. In support of the contentions raised on behalf of the accused
persons the Ld. Defense counsel has relied upon the judgment of the
Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in " Hans Raj Sharma and Ors. Vs. State
Govt. of NCT of Delhi " 2010 (2) JCC 972. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 62/110
 Relevant Law & the case laws: 45. Before coming to the discussion of the evidence adduced by the
prosecution on merits, this court deems it necessary to discuss the law
and the judgments passed by the superior courts in this regard. 46. In order to succeed in charge under Section 498A of the Indian
Penal Code, 1860 the prosecution is required to prove that the accused
had subjected the deceased to cruelty, as defined in the explanation to the
section. For this purpose, the provision of Sec. 498A IPC, 1860 is
reproduce as under:- 47. It is clear from a bare reading of the said provision in conjunction
with the 'Explanation' appended to the said section, that it is not every
cruelty which is punishable under Section 498A of the Indian Penal
Code, 1860. The cruelty, so as to attract penal provisions, contained in Section 498A of Indian Penal Code, 1860, has necessarily to be a willful
conduct, which is of such a nature that it is likely to drive a woman to
commit suicide or cause grievous injury or danger to her life or health.
The use of the expression "willful" in the explanation to Section 498A of
Indian Penal Code, 1860, indicates that the conduct attributed to the
accused, in order to be culpable, needs to be deliberate, aimed at causing
injury to the health of the woman or bringing misery to her. If the
accused knows or is reasonably expected to know that his conduct is
likely to cause injury to the life, limb or health of the aggrieved woman
or if his conduct is of such a nature, that causing injury to the life, limb
or health can be a natural consequence for the woman, who is recipient
of such a conduct, it will attract criminal liability on the part of the
husband or his relative, as the case may be. 48. It is easily believed that everyone is presumed to intend the natural
consequences of his act and such a presumption must necessarily be
drawn even if there is no intention to cause any injury or harm to the
woman. Whether the conduct in question is likely to drive the woman to
cause injury to her life, limb or health, will depend upon a number of Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 49. The expression "Cruelty" takes in its ambit mental cruelty as well
as physical torture of the woman. If the conduct of the accused with a
woman is likely to cause a reasonable apprehension in her mind that her
living with the husband will be harmful and injurious to her life and
safety, such a conduct would attract criminal liability, envisaged in Section 498A of IPC, 1860. 50. If the woman has been harassed on account of her failure or the
failure of her relatives to meet an unlawful demand for property or
valuable security, that also constitutes cruelty, within the meaning of Section 498A of IPC. The expression "harassment" has not been defined
in Section 498A of IPC, but its dictionary meaning is 'to subject
someone to continuous vexatious attacks, questions, demands or other
unpleasantness, etc'. However, it is not harassment of every nature
which is punishable under Section 498A of IPC. In order to attract
criminal liability, there should be torture physical or mental, by positive
acts. Such acts should be aimed at persuading or compelling the woman
or her relatives to meet an unlawful demand of any property or valuable Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 51. It is also pertinent to reproduce the provision u/s 304B IPC, as
under:- 52. It is clear from the said provision that in order to establish a charge
under Section 304B of Indian Penal Code, which deals with what is
described as "dowry death", the prosecution must necessarily prove the
following ingredients: 53. The term "Dowry" has not been defined in Section 304B of IPC,
but, since this expression has been defined in Section 2 of Dowry
Prohibition Act, 1961 it is required to be given the same meaning for the
purpose of under Section 304B IPC as held by Hon'ble Supreme Court
in " Satvir Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab and Anr. " 2001 (4) Crimes 45
(SC). Section 2 of Dowry Prohibition Act defines dowry as under: means any property or valuable security given or
 agreed to be given either directly or indirectly (a) by
 one party to a marriage to the other party to the
 marriage, or (b) by the parent of either party to a
 marriage or by any other person, to either party to
 the marriage or to any other person, at or before 3 or
 any time after the marriage 4in connection with the
 marriage of the said parties, but does not include ATUL
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 54. Dowry would include property or valuable security which is
actually given or which is agreed to be given, in relation to the marriage
of a person in question. The property or valuable security may be given
or may be agreed to be given before marriage or at the time of marriage
or at any time after the marriage, so long as it is connected with the
marriage. However, there has to be a link between the property given or
agreed to be given and the marriage. If at any time before or at the time
of or even during marriage, the parents of a woman or any other person
related or connected to her agree to give some cash, valuable security or
property to her husband or in-laws after marriage, that also would be
covered within the definition of dowry as the agreement or promise in
such a case would be attributable to the marriage or proposed marriage
and if there is demand for any cash property, valuable security etc. which
is promised, but not given, it would constitute demand for dowry. If the
husband of the girl or any other person related or connected to him,
demands something from the girl or her parents or any other person
related to or connected with her, saying that the articles being demanded
by them were expected to be given or ought to have been given in
marriage, that would also, to my mind, constitute demand of dowry
because even though such an article may not have been agreed or
promised to be given by the girl or her family members, it might have
been in the contemplation of the boy and/or his family members, on
account of the expectation that such an article would be given at the time Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 55. Even demands of articles such as T.V., fridge, jewellery, clothes,
furniture, etc. which usually are given or expected in marriages in our
country, would, considering the objective sought to be achieved by
incorporating Section 304B in IPC , 1860 and enacting Dowry
Prohibition Act, 1961 , fall within the purview of Section 304B of IPC,
1860 . 56. In the case of " Pawan Kumar & Ors. v. State of Haryana ", AIR
1998 SCC 958, the Apex Court has specifically held that demand of T.V.,
Fridge, etc. though not agreed to be given or promised or even demanded
prior to or at the time of marriage, to be a demand for dowry for the
purpose of Section 304B of Indian Penal Code. If cash or some property,
etc. is demanded by the boy or his family members, after marriage,
saying that they were expecting such cash, property, etc. to be given in
marriage, and the girl, or her parents or any other person related or
connected to her promise to fulfill such a demand, that also may fall
within the purview of dowry, as the promise though made after marriage,
would nevertheless be referable to the marriage, having been made with
a view to preserve the marriage. In case, if the demand is made after
marriage and it is in respect of a property or valuable security, which was
not demanded, was not expected to be given and also was not in
contemplation at any time up to solemnization of marriage, demand of
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 57. In the case of " Satbir Singh Vs. State of Punjab ", 200 14 Crimes 45
(SC) while dealing with this issue, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, inter
alia, observed as under: This means that giving or agreeing to give any
 property or valuable security on any of the above
 three stages should have been in connection with
 the marriage of the parties. There can be many other
 instances for payment of money or giving property
 as between the spouses. For example, some
 customary payments in connection with birth of a
 child or other ceremonies are prevalent in different
 societies. Such payments are not enveloped within
 the ambit of "dowry". Hence the dowry mentioned
 in Section 304B should be any property or valuable
 security given or agreed to be given in connection
 with the marriage......" 58. In the case of " Appasaheb and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra " , AIR
2007 SC 763, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: 59. The Indian Penal Code , 1860, and the Dowry Prohibition Act,
1961 , are both remedial and penal statutes. As such, Courts are expected
to construe the provisions in a way that the purpose is fulfilled through
and within the limits of language employed in the statute. If a case is
established then the Courts are to be stringent in dealing with the
culprits. The Courts while taking a stringent view and despite the
obligation of the legislative enactment a success, have also to keep in
mind that the charge should be made out. 60. The main ingredients to be proved for establishing a case under Section 304B of Indian Penal Code, 1860, are (i) unnatural death of a
woman within seven years of her marriage and (ii) she being subjected to
cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband, in
connection with any demand of dowry. 61. The words "it is shown" occurring in Section 304B IPC, 1860, are
of significance for the reason that the initial burden of proving the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 62. The Courts are required to scrutinize the evidence carefully
because cases are not rare in which occasionally there is a demand and
then the atmosphere becomes calm and quiet and then again there is
demand. Where a wife dies in the house of her husband within a short
span of seven years of her marriage, it is of considerable difficulty to
assess the precise circumstances in which the incident occurred because
ordinarily independent witnesses are not available as the torture and
harassment is confined to the four walls of the house. The Courts are,
however, required to be vigilant to scrutinize the evidence regarding the
harassment and torture carefully if the witnesses are the relatives of the
deceased and relations between them and her in laws are strained for any
reason whatever it might be. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 73/110 63. Urge for living is a natural phenomenon in mankind. A person
would not embrace death unless there is some psychological problem or
mental agony or such circumstances that the person committing suicide
may think that life he or she is living is more miserable than the pangs
and agony of death. The power of tolerance would vary from person to
person. Some persons try to make the life easy by tolerance while others
even on petty points bring an end to their life. Reliance is placed upon
the judgment of the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court reported as " Gurditta
Singh v. The State of Rajasthan ", 1992 Crl. L. J. 309 . 64. The importance of Proximity Test is both for the proof of an
offence of 'dowry death' as well as for raising a presumption under Section 113B of the Evidence Act. The expression "soon before her
death" used in the substantive section 304B IPC and Section 113B Evidence Act is impregnated with the idea of proximity test. No definite
period has been indicated with respect to the expression " soon before" 65. Further more, in another case reported as " Mousam Singha Roy &
Ors. v. State of West Bengal " , 2003 (3) JCC 1358 , it was observed by
Hon'ble Supreme Court as under: 66. Further more, in another case reported as " Sher Singh @ Partapa
v. State Of Haryana ," 2015 (3) SCC 724, it was observed by Hon'ble
Supreme Court as under: The first type is a tragedy and no criminal
 complexion is conjured up, unless statutorily so
 devised, as in Section 304A; but even there the
 culpable act is that of the person actually causing
 the death. It seems to us that Section 304B of the
 IPC, inasmuch as it also takes within its
 contemplation "the death of a woman ..... otherwise
 than under normal circumstances", endeavours to
 cover murders masquerading as accidents. Justifiably, the suicidal death of a married woman
 who was meted out with cruelty by her husband,
 where her demise occurred within seven years of
 marriage in connection with a dowry demand
 should lead to prosecution and punishment under
 Sections 304B and/or 306 of the IPC . However, if
 the perfidious harassment and cruelty by the
 husband is conclusively proved by him to have had
 no causal connection with his cruel behaviour based
 on a dowry demand, these provisions are not
 attracted as held in Bhagwan Das v. Kartar Singh (2007) 11 SCC 205, although some reservation may
 remain regarding the reach of Section 306. 10. It is already empirically evident that the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 68. In the background of the above, I shall now discuss the evidence
brought on record in the present case. It is trite law that the accused
persons can be convicted on the basis of credible evidence brought on
record and the appreciation of the said evidence must be done in correct
and true perspective manner and in the natural course of events, what
would have been occurred. Appreciation of evidence beyond reasonable
doubt does not mean that it should be assessed beyond any iota of doubt. place evidence at a higher degree of preponderance of probabilities
compared to what is degree of preponderance of probability in civil
cases. The theory of Beyond Reasonable Doubt means expecting higher
degree of preponderance of probabilities and the natural conduct of
human beings, as held by the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka in " State
of Karnataka Vs Venkatesh @ Venkappa & Anr " , Criminal Appeal No.
100492 of 2021, decided on 18.12.2023. 69. Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act defines "evidence". The
evidence can be broadly divided into oral and documentary. "Evidence"
under the Act can be said to include the means, factor or material,
lending a degree of probability through a logical inference to the
existence of a fact. It is an adjective law highlighting and aiding the
substantive law. Thus, it is neither wholly procedural nor substantive,
though trappings of both could be felt. 70. The definition of the word "proved" though gives an impression of
a mere interpretation, in effect, is the heart and soul of the entire Act.
This clause, consciously speaks of proving a fact by considering the
"matters before it". The importance is attached to the degree of
probability in proving a fact through the consideration of the matters
before the court. What is required for a court to decipher is the existence
of a fact and its proof by a degree of probability, through a logical
inference. 71. Matters are necessary, concomitant material factors to prove a fact. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 72. Matters, do give more discretion and flexibility to the court in
deciding the existence of a fact. They also include all the classification of
evidence such as circumstantial evidence, corroborative evidence,
derivative evidence, direct evidence, documentary evidence, hearsay
evidence, indirect evidence, oral evidence, original evidence,
presumptive evidence, primary evidence, real evidence, secondary
evidence, substantive evidence, testimonial evidence, etc. 73. In addition, they supplement the evidence in proving the existence
of a fact by enhancing the degree of probability. As an exhaustive
interpretation has to be given to the word "matter", and for that purpose,
the definition of the expression of the words "means and includes",
meant to be applied for evidence, has to be imported to that of a "matter"
as well. Thus, a matter might include such of those which do not fall
within the definition of Section 3 , in the absence of any express bar. 74. What is important for the court is the conclusion on the basis of
existence of a fact by analyzing the matters before it on the degree of
probability. The entire enactment is meant to facilitate the court to come
to an appropriate conclusion in proving a fact. There are two methods by
which the court is expected to come to such a decision. The court can
come to a conclusion on the existence of a fact by merely considering the
matters before it, in forming an opinion that it does exist. This belief of
the court is based upon the assessment of the matters before it.
Alternatively, the court can consider the said existence as probable from
the perspective of a prudent man who might act on the supposition that it
exists. The question as to the choice of the options is best left to the court
to decide. The said decision might impinge upon the quality of the
matters before it. 75. The word "prudent" has not been defined under the Act. When the
court wants to consider the second part of the definition clause instead of
believing the existence of a fact by itself, it is expected to take the role of
a prudent man. Such a prudent man has to be understood from the point
of view of a common man. Therefore, a judge has to transform into a
prudent man and assess the existence of a fact after considering the
matters through that lens instead of a judge. It is only after undertaking
the said exercise can he resume his role as a judge to proceed further in
the case. 76. The aforesaid provision also indicates that the court is concerned
with the existence of a fact both in issue and relevant, as against a whole
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 77. While appreciating the evidence as aforesaid along with the matters
attached to it, evidence can be divided into three categories broadly
namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) wholly unreliable and (iii) neither wholly
reliable nor wholly unreliable. If evidence, along with matters
surrounding it, makes the court believe it is wholly reliable qua an issue,
it can decide its existence on a degree of probability. Similar is the case
where evidence is not believable. When evidence produced is neither
wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable, it might require corroboration, and
in such a case, court can also take note of the contradictions available in
other matters. The aforesaid principle of law has been enunciated in the
authority of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in " Vadivelu Thevar v.
State of Madras ", 1957 SCR 981 wherein it is held as under: In the first category of proof, the court should have ATUL
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 78. In the present case, the accused persons are facing the charges of
the offences punishable u/s 498A / 304-B / 34 IPC, 1860, for having
committed the dowry death of the deceased Nisha and for committing
cruelty upon her before her death. 79. In the present case, the date of marriage between the deceased and
her husband accused Sandeep is not disputed and the accused persons
have duly admitted the marriage invitation card dated 19.04.2012
alongwith the list of dowry articles in their statements recorded u/s 294 Cr.PC and the same were exhibited as Ex. PX-6 (colly). Therefore, it is
established by the prosecution that the deceased Nisha got married to
accused Sandeep on 19.04.2012. Furthermore, it is also not disputed that Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 80. So as to attract the presumption of law enshrined under section
113-B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, from the statements of the
uncles of the deceased namely Pramod Kumar and Satender, Ex. PW2/A
and Ex. PW6/A, recorded before the concerned SDM/Executive
Magistrate were enough and the prosecution had to discharge the initial
burden of proof after establishing the essential ingredients mentioned in Section 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which the prosecution
has been able to meet in the present case. 81. The death of the deceased Nisha was duly proved by the
prosecution through the MLC Ex. PW30/A, wherein, she was brought to
the main casualty, GTB Hospital in unconscious and unresponsive state
with alleged history of hanging. Upon local examination, bruises marks
were found at anterior aspect of her neck. The postmortem report no.
1635/2014 is an admitted document and same was exhibited as Ex. PX- 2. As per the postmortem report, upon the neck of the dead body, the
concerned doctor found extravasation of blood in soft tissue of neck,
bruising of muscles, epiglottis was found to be congested and
osteocartilaginous structure of the neck was found to be intact. As per the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Therefore, the death of the deceased Nisha, which has been established
through the PM report Ex. PX2 took place on 30.11.2014, therefore, it is
established beyond reasonable doubt that the deceased died within 7
years of her marriage and her death had occurred otherwise than under
normal circumstances. Therefore, the only thing that needs to be now
appreciated from the evidence brought on record, is that whether the
prosecution is able to establish that soon before her death, deceased
Nisha was subjected to cruelty and harassment by her husband or any Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Thereafter, I made a call to accused Sandeep on his mobile phone.
Accused Sandeep handed over the phone to Nisha and Nisha told me that
her sister in laws namely Rekha and Alka, Jagat Singh (father in law),
Krishna (mother in law) and her husband Sandeep are giving beating to
me. She further told that they were demanding money while saying
'apne ghar se paise le kar aao". Thereafter, I asked Nisha to hand over
the mobile phone to Sandeep. Accordingly she gave the phone to
Sandeep and I told him 'ladki ko pareshan mat karo aur main kal aaunga
aur ghar pe baith ke baat karunga'." 89. It has also come from the testimony of PW12 Sonu Kumar that he
had visited the matrimonial house of the deceased on 29.11.2014 at
about 07.30 PM, to deliver the marriage invitation card, since his
younger brother Gaurav was getting married on 01.12.2014. PW12 Sonu
Kumar was the cousin brother of the father of the deceased and he had Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 90. The phone calls exchanged between the accused Sandeep, PW6
Satender, PW2 Pramod Kumar and DW1 Chawan Singh @ Chaman
were duly proved by the prosecution. The CAF and CDR of mobile no.
8588825771 in the name of accused Sandeep was exhibited as Ex. PX4
and same was duly admitted by the accused persons u/s 294 Cr.PC vide
their statements recorded on 01.02.2024. Similarly the CAF and CDR of
mob. no. 9899515424, also belonging to accused Sandeep were admitted
and exhibited as Ex. PX5. Through the testimony of PW21 Ajeet Singh,
it was duly proved by the prosecution that mob. no. 9990113818 was
issued in the name of PW2 Pramod Kumar and he was using the said
mobile number between 16.09.2014 to 08.09.2015. The mobile no.
9891242105 was issued in the name of DW1 Chawan Singh S/o Chander
Pal Singh. Lastly, mobile no. 9015116162 was issued in the name of the
husband of accused Alka, namely Anuj Chokhar and same was duly
proved by the prosecution through the testimony of PW23 Amit Kumar
Sharma. CNR No. DLNE01-000091-2015 State Vs. Sandeep & Ors. FIR No. 1665/2014 Page no. 93/110 91. The testimony of PW2 Pramod Kumar and PW6 Satender qua the
calls received by them and the fact that the deceased had informed them
about the beatings received by her, one day prior to her death and the
said harassment was with respect to dowry demands, was corroborated
through the testimony of other prosecution witnesses i.e. PW9 Devendra
Kumar, who is the father of the deceased. 92. The testimony of PW2 and PW6 has to be appreciated in the
background of the testimony of other prosecution witnesses, wherein,
they had leveled specific allegations against the accused Sandeep making
dowry demands from the family members of the deceased. 93. It has come in the testimony of PW2 Pramod Kumar, PW6
Satender and PW9 Devendra Kumar that one month after the deceased
gave birth to a child, accused Sandeep left her back at the house of her
chacha PW2 Pramod Kumar and did not return back for a long time. He
raised a demand of Rs. 2 lacs from PW2 Pramod Kumar as a condition
precedent for taking his wife and child back to his house. PW2 Pramod
Kumar arranged the said amount in cash from his cousin brother PW10
Rajesh Kumar. The testimony of PW10 Rajesh Kumar is also categorical
in nature and he had fully corroborated the testimony of PW2 Pramod
Kumar on this aspect. 94. The testimony of PW13 Mannu, who is the cousin brother of the
grand father of the deceased, is also corroborating the testimony of PW2 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 95. It is being argued on behalf of the State that the phone calls made
between accused Sandeep and PW2 Pramod Kumar and PW6 Satender
on 29.11.2014, wherein, the deceased had informed her uncles about the
beatings received by her at the hands of the accused persons on the
account of dowry demands, constitute dying declaration. Careful perusal
of the testimony brought on record by the prosecution, clearly reflects
that the deceased had allegedly disclosed to her uncles PW2 Pramod
Kumar and PW6 Satender that she was beaten up by the accused persons
and from the said statement, it cannot be held that the deceased had
given her mind as to the said beatings had driven her to such an extent
that she was going to commit suicide on the very next day. There is no
circumstance surrounding her death, that is disclosed in the said alleged
statement, therefore, the same cannot be held to be a dying declaration. 96. As far as the allegations against accused Sandeep is concerned,
from the testimony of PW2 Pramod Kumar and PW6 Satender, the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 97. However, as far as the other accused persons are concerned, the
allegations are cryptic and vague in nature and it does not inspire any
confidence. The initial burden of proof lied on the prosecution and the
burden would not shift on the accused persons, merely on the fact that
unnatural death had occurred within 7 years of marriage, without even
proving the dowry demand prior to the incident. However, in the present
case, the prosecution has been able to discharge its initial burden of
proving the demand of dowry prior to the incident. There is only one
specific allegation against accused Vikram Devi @ Krishana that around
7-8 days prior to the marriage between her son accused Sandeep and the
deceased, she had raised a demand of a car on PW2 Pramod Kumar.
Thereafter, all the allegations against her are cryptic in nature and no
specific allegations with any date, time etc., were leveled against her. 98. Similarly, as far as accused Jagat Singh is concerned there are only
general and cryptic allegations that he had raised the dowry demands
along with other co-accused persons and that he had also given beatings
to the deceased on 29.11.2014. Furthermore, there are also general and
cryptic allegations of him being involved in committing harassment and
torture of the deceased, prior to her death. It has come in the testimony Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 99. Furthermore, the said fact was not corroborated in the testimony of
the complainant PW-2 Pramod Kumar or PW9 Devendra Kumar. The
factum of the said call was also not stated by complainant in his
statement Ex. PW2/A before the concerned SDM. Furthermore,
regarding the said call made by PW-6 Satender to the accused Jagat
Singh was an improvement from his earlier statement Ex. PW6/A
recorded before the concerned SDM. Furthermore, the prosecution did
not bring on record any CAF/CDR of the mobile phone of the accused
Jagat Singh, to prove that the said call was made to him by PW-6
Satender. 100. Similarly, the allegations leveled against accused Alka and Rekha
are also vague and cryptic in nature and the same also does not inspire
any confidence. It is not disputed that both of them were married and Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 101. As per the testimony of the PW-2 Pramod Kumar and PW-6
Satender Kumar, they were both allegedly informed by the deceased on
29.11.2014, that both accused Alka and Rekha were present in her
matrimonial home and they along-with their other family members gave
beatings to the deceased. However, it is also the case of the prosecution
that PW-12 Sonu Kumar had visited the house of the accused persons on
29.11.2014 to deliver a marriage invitation card and when he met the
deceased, he was informed that some quarrel had taken place and her
husband and her in laws were harassing her on account of demand of
dowry. During his cross examination conducted by Ld. Defense counsel
on 07.07.2018, PW-12 Sonu Kumar had categorically admitted that on
that day when he visited the matrimonial house of the deceased, he met
accused Sandeep, Vikram Devi, Mahesh and Jagat. There was no
mention of accused Rekha and Alka being present there and except for
the testimony of PW-2 and PW-6, their presence in the matrimonial
house of the deceased on 29.11.2014 could not be proved. There are
inherent contradictions in the statements of the prosecution witnesses Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: with the original marriage card, vide their statements recorded u/s 294 Cr.P.C on 01.02.2024. The allegations against accused Vikram Devi @
Krishana of raising a demand of a car, prior to 7-8 days of the marriage
is sought to be proved by the prosecution. All the material public
witnesses, including PW-2 Pramod Kumar, PW-6 Satender and PW-9
Devendra Kumar have categorically deposed qua the same. The receipt
of the Alto car is not disputed by the accused persons. However, there
are no charges framed u/s 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961
against the accused persons and they are not facing trial for raising the
said dowry demands. Except for the said demand of a car, the
prosecution could not bring on record any other cogent evidence to show
the involvement of the accused Vikram Devi @ Krishana in raising
further demands of dowry and committing torture/harassment of the
deceased in relation with the said dowry demands. 103. It is trite law as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
in catena of judgments that section 304-B IPC must be interpreted
keeping in mind the legislative intent to curb the social evil of bride Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 104. As discussed above, the phrase "soon before" as appearing in section 304-B IPC cannot be construed to mean " immediately before".
The prosecution must establish existence of "proximate and live link" 105. Section 304-B IPC does not provide a pigeon hole of an offence in
categorizing the death as homicidal or suicidal or accidental. The death
of the deceased could fall under any of the three scenarios yet it could
amount to occur "otherwise than under normal circumstances". 106. Conjoint reading of section 304-B IPC and section 113-B Indian
Evidence Act, thus predicate the burden of the prosecution to
unassailably substantiate the ingredients of the two sections, by direct
and convincing evidence, so as to avail the presumption engrafted under
the law against the accused persons. Proof of cruelty or harassment by
the husband or his relatives charged is thus the sine qua non to invoke
the spirit of the said statutory presumption. If the prosecution fails to
demonstrate with cogent, coherent and persuasive evidence to prove the
same, the accused person cannot be held guilty of taking refuge only Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 107. The presumption of law as laid down in section 113-B of Indian
Evidence Act, 1872 was upon the wisdom of the legislature of relieving
the prosecution of the rigor of proof, of often practically inaccessible
evidence, which was guarded within the closed confines of the
matrimonial home. However, in absence of cogent evidence spelling out
the ingredients of the offence, especially the most essential ingredient of
harassment/cruelty soon before the death, against any of the accused
persons, does not shift the burden to meet the reverse onus upon them. 108. In the facts of the present case, it seems that accused Jagat Singh,
Vikram Devi @ Krishana, Mahesh Chand, Alka and Rekha have been
roped in only because of their close relationship with accused Sandeep
(husband of the deceased). Accused Mahesh Chand is the elder brother
of accused Sandeep and he was already married and living separately
with his family. As far as accused Alka and Rekha are concerned, they
were the nanads of the deceased and they were also married and living
separately in their respective matrimonial houses. They also had no say
or only a little say, as far as the matrimonial dispute between their
brother accused Sandeep and deceased was concerned, wherein, the
deceased was being tortured by her husband accused Sandeep.
Therefore, the prosecution could not establish through cogent and
coherent evidence of accused Jagat Singh, Vikram Devi @ Krishana,
Mahesh Chand, Alka and Rekha of having committed the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 109. However, through the clear and unimpeachable evidence of dowry
demands raised by the accused Sandeep, six month after the birth of his
son and him being given Rs. 2 lacs by PW-2 Pramod Kumar as a
condition precedent of him taking his wife and child back home, coupled
with the categorical testimonies of PW-2 Pramod Kumar and PW-6
Satender, when appreciated with the testimony of PW-12 Sonu Kumar
and further corroborated by the CDR of accused Sandeep, PW-2 Pramod
Kumar and PW-6 Satender, in the considered opinion of this Court, the
prosecution has been able to discharge this burden that soon before her
death, accused Sandeep had committed cruelty/harassment upon the
deceased Nisha on the demands of dowry. Hence, all the essential
ingredients of the offence punishable u/s 304-B IPC are established by
the prosecution. Therefore, reverse onus is casted upon accused Sandeep,
to refute the case of the prosecution and prove his innocence. 110. It is trite law that the accused person can take two contradictory
defenses and the same is not a taboo under the law. In the present case,
the accused Sandeep has taken different defenses and the same shall be
appreciated here, to see whether he is able to refute the presumption of
law raised against him. 111. The first defense taken up by accused Sandeep is that the deceased Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 112. The second line of defense adopted by the accused persons was
that the deceased was below 18 years of age at the time of her marriage
and her marriage was solemnized against her wishes. Therefore, she was
not happy with her marriage and subsequently committed suicide. It is
true that through the testimony of DW2 Kanwar Pal Singh, it was
brought on record that the date of birth of the deceased was 01.07.1996.
Her marriage admittedly took place on 19.04.2012, therefore, the defense
was able to establish that the deceased was a minor at the time of her
marriage. However, merely because her age is proved, does not ipso Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 113. There is no merit in the arguments raised by the Ld. Defense
counsel regarding the credibility of the star prosecution witnesses. The
minor contradictions and improvements are not of such nature so as to
strike at the very root of the case of the prosecution. The minor
contradictions such as the discrepancy in the date of the marriage of the
deceased with accused Sandeep is immaterial, since the date of marriage
is not disputed in the present case and same was admitted by the accused
persons in their statements recorded u/s 294 Cr.PC. The contradictions
and improvements qua the place of birth of the deceased, her age, her Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 114. The other improvements/contradictions such as the date of the
phone call received by PW2 Pramod Kumar and PW6 Satender was also
not material, since "soon before" could be satisfied by either 28.11.2014
or 29.11.2014. The fact that said phone calls were received on
29.11.2014 and the same was proved by the prosecution through the
corroborative evidence such as CDR and CAF of the mobile phones, had
duly established that the said phone calls were received by the family
members of the deceased, soon before her death. Therefore, the
testimony of PW2 and PW6 was substantially corroborated by the
material relevant evidence brought on record by the prosecution and
merely because in their statements before the SDM, both PW2 and PW6
had stated that the said calls were received on 28.11.2014 and not on Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Therefore, in the view of this Court, in light of the statutory presumption u/s 113-B of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 R/w section 106 and section
114(h) of the Indian Evidence Act, further adverse inference is drawn
against him. The accused Sandeep has failed to discharge the burden of
the reverse onus clause. Conclusion & Findings: Moreover, all the circumstances should be complete and there should be
no gap left in the chain of evidence. Further, the proved circumstances
must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused
and totally inconsistent with his innocence, as held by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in "Hanuman Govind Nargundkar Vs. State of
MP" AIR 1952 SC 343, "Bodh Raj Vs. State of J&K" AIR 2002 SC
3164 and "Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharashtra " AIR
1984 SC 1622 and "C. Chenga Reddy and Ors. Vs. State of A.P." (1996)
10 SCC 193. 118. It is also settled law that accused has to only probabilize the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 119. There is another golden thread which runs through the web of
administration of justice in criminal cases, is that if two views are
possible on the evidence adduced in the case, one pointing to the guilt of
the accused and other to his innocence, the view which is favourable to
the accused should be adopted, as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India in "Kali Ram Vs. State of Himanchal Pradesh" AIR 1973 SC
2773. In the facts of the present case, the prosecution was able to prove
all the material links of the chain of circumstantial evidence and the said
chain pointed towards the guilt of accused Sandeep and no other
hypothesis inconsistent with his guilt could be brought on record. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 120. In view of the aforesaid, the accused Sandeep S/o Jagat Singh is
hereby held guilty and convicted for committing the offence punishable
under section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code,1860 and for committing
the offence punishable under section 498-A of the Indian Penal Code,
1860. He is taken into custody. His previous bail bonds/surety bonds
stands canceled. 121. In view of the aforesaid, the accused Mahesh Chand S/o Jagat
Singh, Jagat Singh S/o Late Sh. Pyare Lal, Vikram Devi @ Krishana
W/o Jagat Singh, Alka W/o Anuj Chokar and Rekha W/o Chawan Singh
are acquitted for committing the offence punishable under section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code,1860 and for committing the offence
punishable under section 498-A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and they
shall be set at liberty. 122. The accused Mahesh Chand S/o Jagat Singh, Jagat Singh S/o Late
 AHLAWAT Date: 123. To be now heard on the point of sentence. Announced in the open court on 20.09.2024. This judgment consists of 110 pages and all
of them have been digitally signed by me.