Enforcement Directorate (ED) recorded an ECIR

 bearing no. ECIR/KLZO-II/19/2022 dated

 24.06.2022 on the basis of CBI FIR

 RC0102022A0006 dated 09.06.20233 (sic.) in the

 matter of illegalities and irregularities in the

 recruitment of primary teachers. The case relates to

 the selling of jobs of Primary Teachers in the schools

 of the government of West Bengal in lieu of money to

 the undeserving, unmeritorious, and below ranked

 holder candidates. 2. During investigation, cash amounting to Rs. 49.80

 crores and gold & jewellery valued at Rs. 5.08

 crores were seized from the premises of Ms. Arpita

 Mukherjee, a close associate of Shri Partha

 Chatterjee, the then MIC Education. The ED filed

 Original Application (OA) No. 710/2022 dated

 19.08.2022 before the Ld. Adjudicating Authority,

 PMLA, New Delhi for confirmation of the seized

 documents/ electronic evidence and cash amounting

 to Rs. 49.80 crores and gold & jewellery valued at

 Rs. 5.08 crores and the same was confirmed by the

 Ld. Adjudicating Authority under PMLA vide its order

 dated 17.01.2023. The investigation also unearthed

 further proceeds of crime amounting to Rs. 48.67

 crores belonging to Ms. Arpita Mukherjee and Shri

 Partha Chatterjee. The investigation revealed that

 Shri Partha Chatterjee was the beneficial owner of

 these properties and the same were kept in the name

 of Ms. Arpita Mukherjee and companies incorporated

 in the name of dummy persons by Shri Partha

 Chatterjee. A Provisional Attachment Order No.

 04/2022 dated 18.09.2022 was issued by ED for

 attaching the said proceeds of crime. An Original

 Complaint (OC) No. 1827/2022 dated 16.10.2022

 was filed by the ED before the Ld. Adjudicating 5 Authority, PMLA, New Delhi and the same was

 confirmed by its order dated 14.03.2023. 3. Investigation further unearthed proceeds of crime

 amounting to Rs. 29 crores (approximately) being

 generated by Shri Manik Bhattacharya, MLA and Ex-

 President of the West Bengal Board of Primary

 Education. A second Provisional Attachment Order

 bearing no. 05/2022 dated 06.12.2022 was issued

 attaching therein proceeds of crime amounting to Rs.

 7.93 crores belonging to Shri Manik Bhattacharya

 and his family members. An Original Complaint (OC)

 no. 1882/2022 dated 31.12.2022 has been filed

 before the Ld. Adjudicating Authority under PMLA

 for the confirmation of the provisionally attached

 assets of Shri Manik Bhattacharya and the same is

 pending adjudication. Investigation has revealed that

 proceeds of crime to the tune of more than Rs. 250

 crores has been generated by various accused

 pesons in the primary teachers recruitment scam

 only and the same has been further utilized for

 personal use or siphoned off or invested in movable

 and immovable properties. Investigation has further

 revealed that the proceeds of crime have also been

 invested by some of the accused persons in the

 Bengali film industry Tollywood and efforts are 6 underway to identify the same for attaching the same

 under the provisions of PMLA, 2022. The amount of

 proceeds of crime being generated by various

 persons involved in the case is only increasing day

 by day and is likely to be double the amount already

 identified. The total seizure and attachment out of

 the generated in the case stands at Rs. 111 crores

 so far. 4. Further, six persons have been arrested so far in the

 case namely Shri Partha Chatterjee, Ms. Arpita

 Mukherjee, Shri Manik Bhattacharya, Shri Kuntal

 Ghosh, Shri Santanu Banerjee and Shri Ayan Sil.

 The Prosecution Complaint (PC) in the case was filed

 before the Hon'ble Special Court (PMLA), Calcutta on

 19.09.2022 followed by two supplementary PCs on

 07.12.2022 and 21.03.2023 against 15 accused

 persons including the persons already arrested on

 different dates. The cognizance of PC as well as the

 Supplementary PCs has also been taken by the

 Hon'ble Special Court under PMLA. 5. During further investigation in respect of Primary

 Teachers Recruitment Scam under PMLA, 2002,

 searches were carried out at various premises linked

 to one Shri Ayan Sil and others on 19/20.03.2023.

 During the course of search, several incriminating 7 documents along with digital evidences were

 recovered and seized from the possession of Shri

 Ayan Sil. The scrutiny of the incriminating

 documents has revealed that the scam is not only

 limited to recruitment of the teachers but also covers

 several other appointments by the various

 municipalities [including Kanchrapara, New

 Barackpur, Kamarhati, Titagarh, Baranagar,

 Halisahar, South Dum Dum (N), Dum Dum, Taki

 etc.] which ranges from recruitments of Mazdoors,

 Sweepers, Clerks, Peon, Ambulance attendants,

 Assistant mistries, Pump operators, Helpers,

 Sanitary assistants, Drivers, etc. 6. Investigation revealed that the contracts pertaining

 to various Municipalities, District Primary School

 Councils etc. were given to a single company M/s.

 ABS Infozone Pvt Ltd. (Director - Shri Ayan Sil) for

 the printing of question papers, printing of OMR

 sheets, evaluation of marks obtained by the

 candidates and preparation of the merit list etc. Shri

 Ayan Sil and other high functionaries including

 public servants and political leaders hatched the

 criminal conspiracy among themselves including

 other private persons and in pursuant to that

 conspiracy Shri Ayan Sil, Director of M/s ABS 8 Infozone Pvt. Ltd. by abusing his power and position

 of being responsible for the printing, designing and

 evaluation of OMR sheets resorted to manipulation

 of OMR sheets of the candidates and facilitated the

 illegal appointments of several unmeritorious

 candidates in several municipalities in lieu of money.

 The interrogation of Shri Ayan Sil revealed that an

 amount of more than Rs. 200 Crores have been

 collected from the candidates towards giving them

 illegal appointments in various Municipalities of

 West Bengal. 7. In view of the above, it is apparent that the accused

 persons were involved in giving illegal appointments

 to unmeritorious candidates in several Municipalities

 by manipulating their OMR sheets in lieu of money.

 As such, it appears that the accused persons have

 committed offences specified under section Sections

 120B , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 34 of Indian Penal Code,

 1860 and Sections 7 , 7A , 8 , 12 and 13 of PC Act,

 1988. It has been noticed that several persons

 including Shri Ayan Sil, other agents, intermediaries

 and political persons have obtained the bribe

 money/ illegal money / illegal considerations both in

 respect of illegal recruitment of teaching and non-

 teaching staff in the education sector as well as for 9 securing various employments in various

 municipalities and even the proceeds of crime of

 Teachers Recruitment Scam and the Municipality

 Recruitment Scam have got intermingled on account

 of common agents like Shri Ayan Sil and common

 beneficiaries and the fact the victim in both the

 cases is same i.e. "public / common people at large",

 a separate FIR for investigation of Municipality

 Recruitment Scam under the relevant provisions of

 IPC and PC Act by CBI would be required. 8. Considering the aforesaid facts revealed during

 investigation of "teachers recruitment scam", the

 detailed information has already been shared with

 the CBI, Headquarters under the provisions of section 66 (2) of the Prevention of Money Laundering

 Act, 2002 for further necessary action to investigate

 the predicate offence of corruption, cheating etc.

 involved in this very serious case of large public

 interest i.e., "Municipality Recruitment Scam" in the

 state of West Bengal. Submitted by

 Sd/- (Mithilesh Kumar Mishra)
 Assistant Director
 Enforcement Directorate
 Kolkata Zonal Office-II"