(Sl. No. 17 to 32of Annexure "A" of Show Cause Notice) 4. Whereas during the course of assessment in the case of
 Shipping Bills, tabulated at Para 2 above, filed by M/s. Vicky
 Sales it appears that the goods meant to be exported were
 overvalued therefore vide letter F. No, VIII/48-02/Misc-Export
 Valuation/2019-2020 dated 25-05-2019 (Sl. No. 33of Annexure
 "A" of Show Cause Notice they were asked to produce for the
 period from January, 2019 to April, 2019: 6 C/86869/2021 (iv) all the Bank Realization Certificates for exports made in
 the past 5. Whereas during the course of assessment in the case of
Shipping Bills, tabulated at Para 3 above, filed by M/s. Jagdambe
Exports it appears that the goods meant to be exported were
overvalued therefore vide letter F. No, VIII/48-02/Misc-Export
Valuation/2019-2020 dated 25-05-2019 (Sl. No. 34of Annexure
"A" of Show Cause Notice they were asked to produce for the
period from January, 2019 to April, 2019: 139/- per Square feet whereas their purchase price was
Rs. 165/- per square feet from M/s. Sunlight Export and
Rs. 134/- per square feet from M/s. ESS TEE Sales and
M/s. Hargun Exports. It was also a fact that on that date
the suppliers had not filed any GST returns. Thus it leads
 7 C/86869/2021

to suspicion that no prudent businessmen would sell the
goods by incurring losses. 10. Due to above abnormalities, vigil was kept and it was noticed
that one Shri Iqbal Satarbhai Shekda was involved in clearance
of the goods covered under Shipping Bills, appearing at Para No.
2 & 3, filed by M/s. Vicky Sales and M/s. Jagdambe Exports.
11.1 Whereas, it appears that statement of Shri Iqbal Satarbhat
Shekda, "H" card holder of M/s. Premji Kanji Masani Private
Limited, was recorded on 30-05-2019 (Sl. No. 88 of Annexure
"A" of Show. Cause Notice), under Section 108 of the Customs
Act, 1962, before the Superintendent of Customs House, Gujarat
Pipavav Port Limited, Pipavay wherein he inter-alia stated that
his firm had filed various shipping bills, during the period from
March, 2019 to May, 2019, on behalf of M/s. Shiv International,
M/s. Vicky Sales and M/s. Jagdambe Exports for exports of
Wallpaper; that these exporters were introduced to them by one
Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia (Mobile No. 97686-38575),
resident of Rajula who work as forwarders i.e. he works as
middleman between importer/exporter and the Customs House
Agent; that he knows Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia since 6 to 7
months as previously he had given them work of clearance of
import cargo; that upon being contacted by Shri Yogesh
Kanubhai Goradia he had directed him to contact his G - Card
Holder Shri Prakash R. Masani; that all work regarding dealing of
export documents and cargo is handled by their Veraval office;
that during process of documents by customs it was found that
the goods were overvalued and were allowed for export only
upon exporter giving an undertaking that the particulars
mentioned in the Shipping Bills are correct; that all the
communications with the exporter was done by Shri Yogesh
Kanubhai Goradia and he did not entered into direct
communication with them; that he cannot recognize any
exporters as he had not met them; that he used to co-ordinate
with Shri Yogesh
11.2 Shri Iqbal Satarbhai Shekda in his statement further
stated that shipping bills for the current consignment
being exported by M/s. Vicky Sales and M/s. Jagdambe
Exports have been filed by another Customs House Agent
i.e. Customs Broker; that in previous shipping bill certain
 8 C/86869/2021

issues had arisen therefore this time they did not file the
shipping bills this time; that present shipping bills have
been filed by M/s. SSS Sai Forwarders Private Limited,
Pipavav. 11.3 Upon being specifically asked why he approached the
customs authorities for the present consignment despite
not being handled by his firm to which Shri Iqbal
Satarbhai Shekda stated that he Shri Yogesh Kanubhai
Goradia has asked him to help with the clearance of these
consignments. 12.1 Whereas it appears that the statement of Shri Yogesh
Kanubhai Goradia was recorded on 30-05-2019(Sl. No. 89 of
Annexure "A" of Show Cause Notice), under Section 108 of the
Customs Act, 1962, before the Superintendent, Customs House,
Gujarat Pipavav Port Limited, Pipavav, wherein he provided his
Mumbai residential address, email address and confirmed that
his mobile numbers were 9769998740 and 9768638575.
12.2 Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia upon being asked further
stated that he worked as forwarder from Rajula, Mundra and
Mumbai and have worked with (1) M/s. Rishad Shipping &
Clearing Agency Private Limited at Mundra Port, (2) M/s. Premji
Kanji Masani Private Limited and M/s. SSS Sai Forwarders
Private Limited at Pipavav Port and (3) M/s. CBN Impex Private
Limited and M/8. Sainath Clearing Agency, owned by his cousin
Shri Dinesh Mehta, at JNPT, Mumbai; that he work on behalf of
the various importers / exporters and as a link between the
importers/ exporters and the CHA; that he also receives work
from other forwarders; that he receives payment/commission
from the importer/exporter/forwarder for the services provided
which is either received in cash as well as by account transfer;
that the payment to CHA is done by him in cash as well as by
account transfer. 12.8 Upon being asked Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia stated
that Let Export Order has been granted for those shipping bills
filed by M/s. Rishad Shipping & Clearing Agency Private
Limited85M/s. Premji Kanji Masani Private Limited however no
Let Export Orders have been passed in the case of shipping bills
filed by M/s. SSS Sai Forwarders Private Limited. 9 C/86869/2021

12.9 Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia, upon being asked, stated
that it his practice to verify the genuineness of the export only
on the basis of the KYC which are received either by email or
courier; that he receives the original documents from exporter
either by courier or with goods via truck; that the scanned
copies are received by email or WhatsApp from forwarder, that
there is no direct communication with the exporter; all the
communications are through Shri Sandeep Dawar and Shri Vijay
by email, mobile phone or WhatsApp. 12.10 Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia stated that the cargo of
wallpaper covered under Vicky Sales Invoice Nos. (i) VS/Exp/19-
20/001 (ii) VS/Exp/19-20/002 (iii) VS/Exp/19-20/003 and (iv)
VS/Exp/004 all dated 03-05-2019 and M/s. Jagdambe Exports
Invoice Nos. (i) JE/Exp/19-20/001 (ii) JE/Exp/19-20/002 (iii)
JE/Exp/19-20/003 and (iv) JE/Exp/19-20/004 all dated 03-05-
2019 had arrived in Rajula before 16 days i.e. around 14-05-
2019 and were stored in godown, taken by him on rent, located
at Hindorna Circle, Rajula; that since total 8 shipping bills (Para
2 and 3 supra) have been filed i.e. 4 each shipping bills of M/s.
Vicky Sales and M/s. Jagdambe Exports the cargo was moved to
Contrans Logistics CFS on 23-05-2019 and 25-05-2019; that the
cargo pertaining to another 12 invoices (1080 box approx.) was
still lying in the godown; that he had received Rs. 20,000/- in
cash from Shri Sandeep Dawar for the purpose of godown rent
and local transportation expenses; that his elder brother Shri
Dipak, whose mobile number is 8446610547 has booked the
godown through one petrol pump owner at Hindorna Circle,
Rajula; that the forwarder will pay for the godown charges.
12.11 Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia further stated that M/s.
Premji Kanji Masani Private Limited had informed him that since
Shri Prakash R. Masaniis on leave therefore they cannot file the
shipping bill therefore he had to change his CHA and these 8
shipping bills were filed through Shri Hitesh Bhatt (Mobile No.
9167618549) who is related to M/s. SSS Sai Forwarders Private
Limited and also known to him; that he had come from Mumbai
before 15 days to Rajula. 13. Whereas it appears that the examination of goods declared
as "WALL PAPER AND SIMLAR WALL COVERINGS, CONSISTING
OF PAPER COATED OR COVERED ON THE FACE SIDE, WITH A
 10 C/86869/2021

GRAINED EMBOSSED, COLOURED, DESIGN, PRINTED OR
OTHERWISE DECORATED LAYERS OF PLASTICS, lying at
Contrans Logistics Private Limited's CFS, to be exported by M/s.
Vicky Sales and M/s. Jagdambe Exports under different 8
Shipping Bills, tabulated at Para 2 & 3 supra, was carried out in
presence of two independent panchas along with Shri Chirag
Manatar, Executive of M/s. SSS Sai Forwarders Private Limited
and Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia, Proprietor of M/s. Jay Gigev
Clearing Agency, Mumbai; that during the inspection and after
looking to quality and condition of the goods it appeared that the
said goods appeared to be overvalued in contravention of the
provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 therefore the entire lot of
good packed in 720 cartons, weighing 14,400 kilogram net,
having declared F.O.B. value of Rs. 11,39,49,416/- seized under
provision of Section 110 ibid and were handed over to custodian
i.e. M/s Contrans Logistics Private Limited for safe custody. The
above proceedings were recorded' under panchnama dated 31-
05-2019(Sl. No. 93 of Annexure "A" of Show Cause Notice).
29.1 Statement of Shri Kanhaiya Agarwal, Director of M/s.
SSS Sai Forwarders Private Limited was recorded on 19-06-
2019 (Sl. No. 154 of Annexure "A" of Show Cause Notice) under Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962 before the Superintendent
(PI), Customs (P), Hq. Jamnagar wherein he inter-alia after
perusing his earlier statement dated 11-06-2019 stated that he
agrees with the contents thereof and in token thereof he placed
his dated signature thereon. 29.2 Shri Kanhaiya Agarwal upon being asked stated that
they have not verified the correctness of the declared
address of the both the exporters viz. M/s. Vicky Sales
and M/s. Jagdambe Exports by physical verification or by
any other reliable source other than verified online
through various portal; that they have no talked
personally to the exporters viz. M/s. Vicky Sales and M/s.
Jagdambe Exports on their given contact number for
genuineness of their existence. 29.3 Shri Kanhaiya Agarwal further stated that they have noticed
that the signature made on authorisation letter, export invoice,
bank verification certificate and bond in respect of M/s. Vicky
Sales and M/8. Jagdambe Exports differ; that however they have
 11 C/86869/2021

not taken this issue as serious matter as all the documents were
given by Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia through courier; that
they have not done any verification of the exporters M/s. Vicky
Sales and M/s. Jagdambe Exports other than online verification;
that he produced the copies of documents retrieved online by
them (Sl. No. 155 of Annexure "A" of Show Cause Notice).
29.4 Upon being asked Shri Kanhaiya Agarwal stated that they
have followed the procedure as prescribed under the Regulation
10 of CBLR, 2018 in the present case; that however they have
not verified the identity of clients (exporters) and functioning of
clients at the declared address by using reliable, independent,
authentic documents, data or information in respect of the
exporters M/s. Vicky Sales and M/s. Jagdambe Exports at their
level; that they have obtained authorisation from each of the
exporters from Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia by whom he is for
the time being employed as Customs Broker but its authenticity
was not verified at their level considering the fact that exports
have already been through Pipavav port. 29.5 Shri Kanhaiya Agarwal confessed that their firm has failed
to exercise due diligence to ascertain the correctness of any
information which they impart to their clients with reference to
work related to clearance of the subject export cargo as they
were under the impression that further verification is not
warranted as the exporters have made export through Pipavav
port earlier as per the shipping bill provided.
29.6 Shri Kanhaiya Agarwal, upon being asked, stated that
generally they charge agency charges between Rs. 1,500/- to
Rs. 2,500/ Stuffing charges Rs. 500/-, Shipping Bill Extra Rs.
300/- to Rs. 500/-, CFS charges and EDI Charges are as actual;
that they have sent a , quotation of Rs. 2,000/- agency charges
and S/B charges of Rs. 300/- to M/s. Vicky Sales and M/s.
Jagdambe Exports through Shri Yogesh Kanubhai Goradia; that
he produced the invoices raised by his firm to other exporters
which shows that they have not charged anything extra.(Sl. No.
156 of Annexure "A" of Show Cause Notice). 58.1 Now, therefore, in view of Section 124 of the Customs Act,
1962 read with Clause 6 of Taxation and other Laws (Relaxation
of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, M/s. Vicky Sales, New
Delhi, are hereby called upon to show cause to the Additional
 12 C/86869/2021

Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Jamnagar having his
office at Sarda House, Opp. Panchwati, Bedi Bunder Road,
Jamnagar 361 008, within 30 days from the date of receipt of
this Show Cause Notice, as to why: and involving illegal refund of Integrated Goods & Services Tax
amounting to Rs. 2,09,63,838/- should not be held liable for
confiscation under Section 113(i) of the Customs Act, 1962; (b) goods having declared F.O.B. value of Rs. 8,55,68,400/- and
involving illegal refund of Integrated Goods & Services Tax
amounting to Rs. 1,54,02,312/ - should not be held liable for
confiscation under Section 113(d) of the Customs Act, 1962; (c) penalty under Section 114 of the Customs Act, 1962 should
not be imposed upon them for rendering the goods appearing at (a) and (b) above liable for confiscation; and (d) penalty under Section 114AA of the Customs Act, 1962
should not be imposed upon them. 58.2 Now, therefore, in view of Section 124 of the Customs Act,
1962 read with Clause 6 of Taxation and other Laws (Relaxation
of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, M/8. Jagdambe Exports,
New Delhi, are hereby called upon to show cause to the
Additional Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Jamnagar
having his office at Sarda House, Opp. Panchwati, Bedi Bunder
Road, Jamnagar 361 008, within 30 days from the date of
receipt of this Show Cause Notice, as to why: and involving illegal refund of Integrated Goods & Services Tax
amounting to Rs. 1,95,58,705/- should not be held liable for
confiscation under Section 113(i) of the Customs Act, 1962; (b) goods having declared F.O.B. value of Rs. 1,42,61,400/- and
involving illegal refund of Integrated Goods & Services Tax
amounting to Rs. 25,67,052/- should not be held liable for
confiscation under Section 113(d) of the Customs Act, 1962; (c) penalty under Section 114 of the Customs Act, 1962 should
not be imposed upon them for rendering the goods appearing at (a) and (b) above liable for confiscation; and (d) penalty under Section 114AA of the Customs Act, 1962
should not be imposed upon them. 13 C/86869/2021

58.3 Now, therefore, in view of Section 124 of the Customs Act,
1962 read with Clause 6 of Taxation and other Laws (Relaxation
of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, M/s. Rana Exports, New
Delhi, are hereby called upon to show cause to the Additional
Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Jamnagar having his
office at Sarda House, Opp. Panchwati, Bedi Bunder Road,
Jamnagar 361 008, within 30 days from the date of receipt of
this Show Cause Notice, as to why: involving illegal refund of Integrated Goods & Services Tax
amounting to Rs. 1,28,35,260)- should not be held liable for
confiscation under Section 113(d) of the Customs Act, 1962; and (b) penalty under Section 114 of the Customs Act, 1962 should
not be imposed upon them for rendering the above goods liable
for confiscation; and : 58.5 Now, therefore, in view of Section 124 of the Customs Act,
1962 read with Clause 6 of Taxation and other Laws (Relaxation
of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, Shri Yogesh Kanubhai
Goradia, is hereby called upon to show cause to the Additional
Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Jamnagar having his
office at Sarda House, Opp. Panchwati, Bedi Bunder Road,
Jamnagar 361 008, within 30 days from the date of receipt of
this Show Cause Notice, as to why: 14 C/86869/2021

58.6 . Now, therefore, in view of Section 124 of the Customs
Act, 1962 read with Clause 6 of Taxation and other Laws
(Relaxation of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, Shri
Ravindrasinh Bharatsinh Jadeja, is hereby called upon to show
cause to the Additional Commissioner of Customs (Preventive),
Jamnagar having his office at Sarda House, Opp. Panchwati, Bedi
Bunder Road, Jamnagar 361 008, within 30 days from the date
of receipt of this Show Cause Notice, as to why: 58.7 Now, therefore, in view of Section 124 of the Customs Act,
1962 read with Clause 6 of Taxation and other Laws (Relaxation
of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, Shri Iqbal Satarbhai
Shekda, is hereby called upon to show cause to the Additional
Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Jamnagar having his
office at Sarda House, Opp. Panchwati, Bedi Bunder Road,
Jamnagar 361 008, within 30 days from the date of receipt of
this Show Cause Notice, as to why: ' (a) penalty under Section 114 of the Customs Act, 1962 should
not be imposed upon him; and (b) penalty under Section 114AA of the Customs Act, 1962
should not be imposed upon him. 58.8 Now, therefore, in view of Section 124 of the Customs Act,
1962 read with Clause 6 of Taxation and other Laws (Relaxation
of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, M/8. Premji Kanji Masani
Private Limited, Veraval are hereby called upon to show cause to
the Additional Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Jamnagar
having his office at Sarda House, Opp. Panchwati, Bedi Bunder
Road, Jamnagar 361 008, within 30 days from the date of
receipt of this Show Cause Notice, as to why penalty under Section 114 and/or 114AA of Customs Act, 1962 should not be
imposed upon them. 59 The Noticees are hereby directed to produce all evidences
upon which they intend to rely in support of their defence at the
time of showing cause. They are further directed to indicate in
their written reply as to whether they wish to be heard through
virtual mode as stipulate in Central Board of Indirect Taxes &
 15 C/86869/2021

Customs, New Delhi's instructions dated 27-04-2020 issued from
F. No. 390/Misc/3/2019-JC or in person .. " 15.1. In para 9.1 of impugned Show Cause Notice dated
29.09.2020, it has alleged that the CB appears to have
contravened the provisions of Regulation 10(a) as they failed to
obtain authorization from their client (exporter) directly and this
fact was admitted by the CB in his statement 19.06.2019; that
despite knowing that the signature made on authorization letter,
export invoice, Bank verification certificate and Bond in respect
of M/s Vicky Sales and M/s Jagdambe Export are different, he did
not take this issue as a serious matter as all the documents were
given by Shri Yogesh Goradia through courier. Thus it appears
that the CB has failed in complying the provision of obtaining
authorization. Submission of CB during P.H.
15.2. In this cast, the CB obtained detailed authorization duly
signed by these exporters. During investigation Original copies of
authorization of both exporter were submitted to the officers of
Customs Preventive, Jamnagar. It is not mandated in Regulation
10(a) of CBLR, 2018 that the Customs Broker shall obtain
authorization from the exporter/importer directly, therefore,
contravention of the said Regulation on the ground that the CB
failed to obtain authorization from its client directly is patently
incorrect and contrary to the provisions of this Regulation,
Regarding difference in the signature made on authorization
letter, export invoice, Bank verification certificate and Bond in
 16 C/86869/2021

repeat of M/. Vicky Sales and M/s Jagdambe Export, the CB
submits that normally signatures differ and sometimes some
other authorized person also signs documents on behalf of the
importer/exporter. However, such difference in signatures would
not render these documents void. Moreover, there is no evidence
or any statement that the CB was aware of any misdeclaration
Also the CB came to know about the difference in signature
when the officers of customs Preventive, Jamnagar thoroughly
and minutely examined these documents. Even the assessing
officers who raised initial doubt about overvaluation of the
Impugned goods could not detect this difference.
Findings of inquiry
15.3. I have seen copies of authorization letters produced by CB
during P.H. I have gone through the Incident report dt. 20-6-19
with statement of CB dt. 19-6-19 and SCN dated 24.06.2020
issued by the Additional Commissioner of Customs
(Preventive),Jamnagar after completion of investigation.
15.4. The CB obtained authorization from exporter through Mr.
Yogesh Goradia. It is also important to mention that throughout
the investigation both exporters have not denied the
authorization and didn't indicated that they have not authorized
the CB. Therefore charges that CB contravened the provisions of Regulation 10(a) are not proved, 16. Regulation 10(d) of CBLR, 2018
"The Customs Broker shall advise his client to comply with the
provisions of the Act, other allied Ads and the rules and
regulations thereof and in case of noncompliance, shall bring the
matter to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or
Assistant Commissioner of Customs. as the case may be" Thus, it is well established that while obtaining the authority
letter from exporters, the CB appropriately advised them to
undertake to comply with all provisions of the Customs Act and
rules/regulations made thereunder. During the course of
assessment when the officers of customs asked for contain
clarification/ information/ documents from these exporters, the
CR promptly Informed the authorised representative of these
exporters and on receipt of the requisite information immediately
provided the same to the officers of customs. The CB also
submits that the issue of overvaluation to claim refund of excess
IGST came to the notice of the CB during the course of
investigations only. The CB was not aware of any
misdeclaration/suppression of fact at the time of filling of
Shipping Bill or during their assessment. Therefore, allegation, if
any, of not informing the concerned the Assistant
Commissioner/the Deputy Commissioner about any non-
compliance by these exporters cannot sustain. The CB also
submits that in this case there is no allegation leave aside any
evidence that the CB advised these exporters to not to comply
with the provisions of the Custom Act, 1962 or to resort to
misdeclaration. In view of these facts, there is no case of
violation of provisions of Regulation 10(d) of CBLR, 2018
Findings of inquiry
16.3. I have gone through the Incident report dt. 20-6-19 with
statement of CB dt. 19-6-19 and SCN dated 24.06.2020 issued
by the Additional Commissioner of Customs (Preventive),
Jamnagar after completion of investigation. There is no evidence
to establish that CB has ill-advised the exporters about
compliance of legal provisions or has hide any non-compliance
by exporter from customs officers. Therefore charges that CB
contravened the provision, of Regulation 10(d) are not proved. 17. Regulation 10(e) of CBLR, 2018
 18 C/86869/2021

"the Customs Broker shall exercise due diligence to ascertain the
correctness of any information which he imparts to a client with
reference to any work related to clearance of cargo or baggage;" 19 C/86869/2021

18.1. As per para 9.4 of impugner Show Cause Notice, CB failed
to discharge his duties as a Customs Broker with efficiency. The
CB has acted negligently in clearance of export consignment
involving high amount of 1GST and despite knowing that the
signature on the authorization leader, export invoice, Bank
verification certificate and bond in respect of M/s Vicky Sales and
M/s Jagdambe Export are different, he processed the clearance
of the export consignment. Submission of CB during P.H
18.2. CB has discharged its duty towards its clients and the
customs department without any delay as the CB filed the
Shipping Bills on receipt of the documents from the exporters
and presented the documents for assessment to the officers of
customs. When a query was raised by the officers of customs on
the exporters to submit certain information/documents, the CB
promptly informed the authorized representative of these
exporters and on receipt of documents/information immediately
landed them over to the officers of customs. There was no delay
by the CB in performing its duties as Custom Broker.
Findings of inquiry
18.3. As per copies of checklist submitted by CB along with
written submissions during PH and Incident report dt. 20-6-19,
the development of events should be as follows.
  On 21-5-19 CB asked for KYC documents and prepared
 checklist
  On 21-5-19 exporter approved checklist.  On 22-5-19 CB asked for supporting documents to
 exporter.  On 22-5-19 & 24-05-19 shipping bills were filed.
  On 25-5-19 DC, Customs, Pipavav called for documents
 supporting the valuation
  On 31-5-19 Goods examined and seized in presence of CB
 and representative of exporter,

I don't see any delay on part of CB here. Therefore charges that
CB contravened the provisions of Regulation 101m) are not
proved. 19. Regulation 10(11) of CBLR, 2018
"the Customs Broker shall very correctness of importer Exporter
Code (IEC) number, Goods and Services Tax Identification
 20 C/86869/2021

Number (GSTIN) identity of his client functioning of his client at
the declared address using reliable, independent, authentic
documents, data or information;" 21 C/86869/2021

functioning of the client at the declared address, was not
physically verified, which is also an impossible task to perform
and perhaps was not necessary in view of the authenticity of the
Government Documents verified online. The CB also submits
that, the authorized representative of exporter as well as
forwarder of both exporters, Sh. Yogesh Goradia was physically
present at Pipavav Port during the examination of goods and
also during investigation by the officers of customs. He also
tendered his statements under Section 108 of the Customs Act,
1962 before those officers. Therefore, there is no failure on part
of the CB to verify the authenticity of any of the exporters' viz.
M/s. Vicky Sales and M/s. Jagdambe Exports. Findings of inquiry
19.3. I have gone through the incident report al. 20-6-19 with
statement of CB dt. 19-6-19. On question no 3,4 7 the CB
agreed that they had not done physical verification of exporter's
address, that they had not talked to exporter in person, that
they have not verified authenticity of authorization Letter
received through Mr. Yogesh Goradia. I have also gone through
trail and WhatsApp communication between CB and Mr. Goradia
before filing of shipping bills wherein CB was requesting for KYC
documents. During PH dt. 23-3-71, Mr. Dhakan, G-card holder,
stated that in response to these emails, their regional office
received KYC documents by hand before filing of shipping bills.
19.4. IEC and GSTIN are correct. However, in terms of verifying
functioning of exporters at the declared address, I find that CB
failed to check Authenticity of authorization letter and CB did not
communicate to exporters directly. To that extent I find that
charges that CB contravened the provisions of Regulation 10 [n)
are proved. 4.6 Principal Commissioner did not agree with the enquiry
report and after issuing disagreement memo proceeded to
adjudicate the show cause notice. 6.1 The defence had pointed out that CB had obtained
authorization from exporters through Shri Yogesh Goradia but
such authorization given by the exporters viz. M/S Vicky Sales
and M/s Jagdambe Exports was legal and valid and that the
exporters had not denied authorization given by them to CB for
the entire period of investigation, and proceedings against them
 22 C/86869/2021

and therefore no proceedings can be initiated against CB under Regulation 10(a) of CBLR 2018. I find that investigating agency
had issued summons to exporters namely M/s Vicky Sales and
M/s Jagdambe Exports, however none of them came out before
investigating agency. I also note that Shri Yogesh Goradia was
front man of Shri Sandeep Dawar, Delhi based forwarder and
Shri Yogesh Goradia made arrangements right from receiving
cargo, appointing Customs Brokers, checking and confirming
checklist for filing of shipping bills, placing fake signatures on
export documents etc. There is no question of denial of
authorization by exporters in such circumstances where all the
export formalities had been completed by the forwarders and no
one knows the where about of IEC holders. I find that in the
statement of Shri Kanhaiya Aggarwal (director of CB firm M/s
SSS Sai Forwarders) recorded on 19.06.2019 under Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962 he admitted that despite knowing that
the signature made on authorization letter, export invoice, Bank
verification certificate and Bond in respect of M/s Vicky Sales and
M/s Jagdambe Export are different, he did not take this as a
serious matter as all the documents were given by Shri Yogesh
Goradia through courier, who (Shri Yogesh Goradia) is a
forwarder and worked on behalf of various importers/ exporters
on commission basis. The investigation revealed that the CB
accepted the documents from a person who was not an
employee of the exporter and CB never tried to find out the
genuineness and antecedents of the exporters. The CB had no
interaction with the exporter IEC holder. In fact, during
preliminary investigation conducted against Exporters M/S Vicky
Sales and M/s Jagdambe Exports, it was observed that Shri
Yogesh K. Goradia, a forwarder and authorized representative of
the exporters, had played active role at Port Pipavav. CB was
dependent all the time on Shri Yogesh Goradia rather than on
exporters for export related activity. The Customs documents
were received from Shri Yogesh Goradia and not from M/s Vicky
Sales and M/s Jagdambe Export the exporting firm. Despite
enough experience in Customs Broking, it is strange that this did
not arouse suspicion in mind of CB especially when CB was not
in touch with their clients by any means. Thus it is evident that
Customs Broker was deliberately not dealing with the exporter
 23 C/86869/2021

and he obtained authorization without proper verification of KYC
documents in order to facilitate fraud being perpetrated. I find
that the whole purpose of obtaining authorization has been
defeated i.e. to ensure that the CB has interacted with the
genuine exporter/ importer and is aware of the goods to be
cleared on behalf of the client. The CB has filed the Shipping Bills
without proper verification of the authorization letter from the
exporter as mandated under Regulation 10(a) of the CBLR,
2018. I hold that the CB failed to fulfil the obligation of Regulation 10(a) of CBLR, 2018. 7.2 I find that Shri Kanhaiya Agarwal (director of CB firm M/s
SSS Sai Forwarders) in his statement recorded on 19.06:2019
under Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962 admitted that he
did not talk personally to the exporters on their given contact
number or mobile number and the CB was only in contact with
the mediator Shri Yogesh Goradia and the payments in cash as
well as by account transfer were done by him. I hold that mere
mentioning in format of authorization sent to the exporters
whom he (CB) wasn't even in the know, does not suffice the
obligation of the CB. Hence, it is evident that the CB failed to
advise its clients (exporters) to comply with the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 which led to the fraudulent availment of IGST
credit by the exporters. It is obvious that there was no
interaction between the Customs Broker and the actual IEC
holder of the exporting firm M/s Vicky Sales and M/s Jagdambe
Export. Therefore, in absence of any interaction with the
exporter, it is clear that the Customs Broker could not have
given proper advice to their client about the proper way to clear
consignment through Customs. As already brought out the
activities to the Customs authorities and noncompliance with the
Rules & Regulations is a clear contravention of Regulation 10(d) of CBLR 2018. In view of discussions above, I find that the
Customs Broker has intentionally violated the Regulation 10(d) of the CBLR, thus the allegation is conclusively proved. 8. It has been alleged that CB had not exercised due diligence to
ascertain the correctness of any information which he imparts to
a client with reference to 'any work related to clearance of cargo.
8.1 I find that Shri Kanhaiya Agarwal (director of CB firm M/s
SSS Sai Forwarders) in his statement recorded on 19.06.2019
 24 C/86869/2021

under Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962 admitted that their
firm failed to exercise due diligence to ascertain the correctness
of any information which they imparted to their clients with
reference to work related to clearance of the subject export
cargo as they were in the impression that further verification
was not warranted as the exporters have made export through
Pipavav Port earlier as per the Shipping Bills provided which led
to the fraudulent export of goods for IGST availment. In this
regard, I find that the omission of imparting proper information
regarding legal methods of export and obligations of an exporter
and facilitating fraudulent exports is not acceptable. Instead, the
CB conveniently received the documents from Shri Yogesh
Goradia, who had no authorisation or any legal standing to hand
over documents on behalf of their client. There is no evidence of
the CB making any effort to discourage such exports. Thus, it is
clear that the CB did not impart any information at all to their
client and did nothing to discourage him from being fraud
exporter. 8.2 Thus, it is clear that the CB has not worked diligently in the
clearance of the said shipping bills for export consignments
which were found mis-declared. The CB had clearly accepted the
documents from a person who was not the employee of the
exporter and filed the S/B. Hence, it is evident that the Customs
Broker by their acts of deliberate commission and omission had
facilitated the exporters. to avail CGST/SGST credit on inflated
invoices. It is clearly evident that the Customs Broker processed
the documents for filing the Shipping Bills without exercising due
diligence to ascertain the correctness of the information
regarding clearance formalities needed to be fulfilled. They also
suppressed the fact of difference in signatures on authorization
and KYC from Customs authorities and that they were dealing
with a forwarder in place of exporter. Thus, it is clear that the CB
has deliberately not carried out obligation cast on them so as to
feign innocence later. They clearly had malafide intention in
defrauding the Govt. exchequer and hence deliberately did not
exercise due diligence in imparting process & procedure to their
clients in legal export of goods. Thus, I find that the CB had not
fulfilled the obligation of 10(e) of CBLR, 2018 with malafide
intention. 25 C/86869/2021

9.1 It was submitted that it was not pointed out in the
disagreement memo that CB had delayed in discharging their
duties at any point of time. It was also added that even the
inquiry report dated 01.04.2021 had held that there was no
delay on the part of customs broker in discharging their duties. I
find that certificate and Bond in respect of exporters are
different, he processed the clearance of the export consignment.
Had the CB acted in a vigilant manner and performed his duties
efficiently, the loss to the Government revenue would have not
taken place. As already brought out in paras above the CB was
well aware of the fraud. These deliberate commissions and
omissions on the part of the CB firm prove grave inefficiency in
discharging their duties as a Customs Broker. Thus, the CB had
failed in complying with the provision of discharging his duties
efficiently and has contravened Regulation 10(m) of CBLR, 2018.
I further find that CB failed to communicate efficiently with the
exporter, regarding the legal procedure for export and their
obligation regarding receipts of remittance against the exports
made. Had the CB acted in a vigilant manner and performed his
duties efficiently, the loss to the Government revenue would
have not taken place. I find that the CB had filed the shipping
bills on behalf of the exporters without having done any
verification about the business functioning of their client
especially since the drawback and the IGST refund amounts
involved are huge. These very acts point to lack of efficiency of
the CB. On the other hand, these commissions and omissions on
the part of the CB firm prove total inefficiency in discharging
their duties as a Customs Broker. Hence, I find that the CB has
violated and contravened the regulation 10(m) of CBLR, 2018.
10.2 I find that as a result, the whole purpose of KYC i.e. to
ensure that the CB has received and verified the KYC documents
submitted by the genuine client, is defeated. I find that the total
IGST involved due to the alleged fraudulent over invoicing is Rs
2,05,36,416/-. The exporters fraudulently availed this type of
credit of IGST with intention to get refund from overvalued
exports. Thus considering the high amount of revenue involved,
the CB was required to be more vigilant in verification of KYC
norms at the time of taking up the consignment for Customs
clearance, which had not been done in this case. In this regard, I
 26 C/86869/2021

find it strange that the CB who has enough experience in
matters of dealing with the importers and exporters,
conveniently ignored the fact that the Shipping bills were similar
and of same value and having noticed that the signatures made
on authorization letter, export invoice, Bank verification
certificate and Bond in respect of exporters differed with each
other had not taken this issue as a serious matter as all the
documents were given by Shri Yogesh Goradia through courier. I
note that CB only contacted Shri Yogesh Goradia for their doubt
and never tried to approach exporters by any means. Thus, it is
safely assumed that this knowledge would force the CB to go in
deep into the issue regarding the verification of KYC details. The
fact that they did not do so and did not verify the business
functioning only points to their malafide intention. In fact, they
did not question the need to be dealing with the forwarder, Shri
Yogesh Goradia instead of the client for all aspects. Instead the
CB conveniently accepted documents from him including the KYC
documents, thus facilitating fraudulent exporter. The CB
conveniently made no efforts to know if the exporter was
genuine or not and instead consciously turned a blind eye to all
discrepancies as they were a part of the syndicate. As a Customs
Broker, while accepting the documents from the third person,
they did not take due care to verify the client, their business
functioning, antecedents, genuineness of business, the export
details and its correctness etc. using any independent, reliable
and authentic means. There is no denying the fact that the CB
M/s. SSS Sai Forwarders Pvt Ltd (CB No. 11/1830) had not been
diligent in undertaking the KYC of the background of exporter
and accepted documents from a person with no legal relation to
their client. Given the discussions in paras above, I have no
doubt in holding that this was done with malafide intention. This
clearly proves contravention of provisions of Regulation 10(n) of
the CBLR, 2018. The Inquiry also found the CB to have
contravened the provisions of Regulation 10(n) of CBLR, 2018 as
they failed to verify the identity of his client and functioning of
his client at the declared address by using reliable, independent,
authentic documents, data or information. 27 C/86869/2021

4.7 Before we further proceed it is necessary to understand
the process of IGST Refund, for which Rule 96 of the CGST
Rules, 2017 as amended is reproduced below: 3 4[or FORM GSTR-3B, as the case may be; [(c) the applicant has undergone Aadhaar authentication in the
manner provided in rule 10B;]

(2) The details of the 5[relevant export invoices in respect of
export of goods] contained in FORM GSTR-1 shall be
transmitted electronically by the common portal to the system
designated by the Customs and the said system shall
electronically transmit to the common portal, a confirmation that
the goods covered by the said invoices have been exported out
of India. [Provided that where the date for furnishing the details of
outward supplies in FORM GSTR-1 for a tax period has been
extended in exercise of the powers conferred under section 37 of
the Act, the supplier shall furnish the information relating to
exports as specified in Table 6A of FORM GSTR-1 after the
return in FORM GSTR-3B has been furnished and the same
shall be transmitted electronically by the common portal to the
system designated by the Customs: (4) The claim for refund shall be withheld where,- (a) a request has been received from the jurisdictional
 Commissioner of central tax, State tax or Union territory tax
 to withhold the payment of refund due to the person claiming
 refund in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (10)
 or sub-section (11) of section 54 ; or (b) the proper officer of Customs determines that the goods
 were exported in violation of the provisions of the Customs
 Act, 1962 . (5) Where refund is withheld in accordance with the provisions of
clause (a) of sub-rule (4), the proper officer of integrated tax at
the Customs station shall intimate the applicant and the
jurisdictional Commissioner of central tax, State tax or Union
territory tax, as the case may be, and a copy of such intimation
shall be transmitted to the common portal. (6) Upon transmission of the intimation under sub-rule (5), the
proper officer of central tax or State tax or Union territory tax,
as the case may be, shall pass an order in 9[ Part A] of FORM
GST RFD-07 . (7) Where the applicant becomes entitled to refund of the
amount withheld under clause (a) of sub-rule (4), the concerned
jurisdictional officer of central tax, State tax or Union territory
tax, as the case may be, shall proceed to refund the
amount 10[bypassing an order in FORM GST RFD-06 after
 29 C/86869/2021

passing an order for release of withheld refund in Part B
of FORM GST RFD-07 .]

(8) The Central Government may pay refund of the integrated
tax to the Government of Bhutan on the exports to Bhutan for
such class of goods as may be notified in this behalf and where
such refund is paid to the Government of Bhutan, the exporter
shall not be paid any refund of the integrated tax. [(9) The application for refund of integrated tax paid on the
services exported out of India shall be filed in FORM GST RFD-
01 and shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of
rule 89] 12 [(10) The persons claiming refund of integrated tax paid on
exports of goods or services should not have - (a) received supplies on which the benefit of the Government
 of India, Ministry of Finance notification No. 48/2017-Central
 Tax, dated the 18th October, 2017, published in the Gazette
 of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3 , Sub-section (i),
 vide number G.S.R 1305 (E), dated the 18th October, 2017
 except so far it relates to receipt of capital goods by such
 person against Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme or
 notification No. 40/2017-Central Tax (Rate), dated the 23rd
 October, 2017, published in the Gazette of India,
 Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3 , Sub-section (i), vide number
 G.S.R 1320 (E), dated the 23rd October, 2017 or notification
 No. 41/2017-Integrated Tax (Rate), dated the 23rd October,
 2017, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part
 II, Section 3 , Sub-section (i), vide number G.S.R 1321 (E),
 dated the 23rd October, 2017 has been availed; or (b) availed the benefit under notification No. 78/2017-
 Customs, dated the 13th October, 2017, published in the
 Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3 , Sub-
 section (i), vide number G.S.R 1272 (E), dated the 13th
 October, 2017 or notification No. 79/2017-Customs, dated the
 13th October, 2017, published in the Gazette of India,
 Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3 , Sub-section (i), vide number
 G.S.R 1299 (E), dated the 13th October, 2017 except so far it
 30 C/86869/2021

 relates to receipt of capital goods by such person against
 Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme.] 13 [Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-rule, the
 benefit of the notifications mentioned therein shall not be
 considered to have been availed only where the registered
 person has paid Integrated Goods and Services Tax and
 Compensation Cess on inputs and has availed exemption of
 only Basic Customs Duty (BCD) under the said notifications.]

4.8 Interestingly from the perusal of the Rule 96, it is evident
that the refund under this rule is processed on the basis of
system to system verification without of the invoices issued by
the exporter under the provisions of IGST law, and the export
documents filed by the exporter at the port of exportation. Only
after matching of the said documents in terms of the value and
the tax paid the refund is allowed on the system and deposited
in the declared account of the exporter. While registering the on
the GSTN, the exporter provides the details of his business
premises, bank accounts etc., and the refund is credited to the
declared account only. The process of refund of IGST is
dependent on filing GSTR-1 and GSTR-3 (or GSTR-3B) returns
by the claimant. In case the GSTR-1 and GSTr-3 (GSTR-3B)
return is not filed the refund cannot be processed by the system.
The value for the purpose of the IGST refund is the value that is
determined as per the provisions of IGST Act , and hence the
same needs to be determined by the IGST officer. The Custom
Officer has as per the above referred Rule, not allowed any
authority to re-determine the value and vary the refund claim. In
the circumstances provided by the sub rule 4, Custom Officer at
port could have with held the refund claim and refer the matter
to the concerned Commissioner of Central Tax, for considering
the refund claim. The refund in any case cannot exceed the
amount of IGST paid by the exporter at the time of clearance of
the goods for export from his premises. Interestingly in the
present case the show cause notice issued by Jamnagar Customs
and the impugned order goes a step further where they proceed
against the exporters and the CB's for the ITC credit taken by
the exporter on the basis of the basis of the supplies received by
them. We have serious doubts about the actions proposed vis a
 31 C/86869/2021

vis the provisions of Rule 96 reproduced above. Customs
authority can proceed for overvaluation of the goods as per the
provisions of Custom Act, 1962 , but can they question the ITC
credit availed by the exporter. Be that as it may be, here the
licence of CB has been revoked for the reason that the exporters
have fraudulently availed excess ITC, by receiving the goods at
inflated prices from their supplier. 4.9 The role of CB is limited to facilitation of the imports and
exports by filing the documents after due verification. Is the role
beyond that envisaged in terms of any regulation under CBLR.
The fraudulent credit if availed is a matter for investigation by
the concerned Central/ State Tax Authorities. How can a CB be
responsible for not advising the client, exporter in that respect?.
How in case of exports when the exporter has been registered on
the GSTN, after due verification and diligence by the GST
authorities, the availability of the said GSTIN on the Export
Invoices and the shipping documents be not enough to verify the
identity of the exporter. In any case without GSTIN will it be
possible to claim the IGST Refund in any circumstances. 4.10 In case of Freight & Travels Pvt. Ltd. [2016 (344) ELT 602
(Tri Delhi)] tribunal has held as follows: The license of the appellant stands revoked only on the ground
that they have failed in their obligation of verifying the identity
of his client and their existence in the given address. The
admitted facts of the case are that the importer's details as
available in IEC, PAN Cards, Bank Account and electricity have
been checked by the appellant. No physical verification of
importer's premises is mandated in the regulations nor it is a
general requirement as per business practice. No violations have
been noticed in respect of transactions with Customs with
reference to consignment cleared through the appellants. As
such the order of revocation of license, only on the ground that
on later verification the importer was not found in the indicated
premises, is not justifiable. 4.11 In case of HIM Logistics Pvt. Ltd. [2016 (338) ELT 725 (Tri
Delhi)], following was observed: The allegation that the IEC was obtained by submitting forged
documents has no effect on the appellant as they could only
verify the correctness of the documents submitted before taking
up of the work for any importer. There is no stipulation or legal
requirement to physically verify the business premises or
residential premises of the importer and also to have a personal
meeting with the importer before taking up the work for any
importer. 8. We also note that in the present case the contravention
alleged against the importer is non-declaration of retail sale price
on auto parts imported by them for assessment under Section
4A of the Central Excise Act, 1944 for CVD. We find that the bill
of entry was filed by the appellant after the goods were detained
by the officers of DRI. The said bill of entry was filed on first
check basis for verification of the goods before assessment. In
such a situation, we find that no mala fide or intentional violation
of any provisions of the Customs Act can be alleged on the part
of the Customs broker. Regarding KYC norms and obligations
under Regulation 11 , we find that case as made out in the
original order is neither convincing nor sustainable. 9. We find that the impugned order did not make out a
sustainable case for revocation of licence. In the case of Setwin
Shipping Agency v. CC (General), Mumbai - 2010 (250) E.L.T.
141 (Tri.-Mumbai), the Tribunal held that there is no
requirement for the CHA to verify physically the premises of
importer/exporter. The Tribunal also observed that it is a settled
law that the punishment has to be commensurate and
proportionate to the offence committed. In the present case, we
 33 C/86869/2021

notice that the punishment of revocation is not justifiable even if
it is to be admitted that physical verification of the importer's
premises could have avoided the filing of the bill of entry by the
appellant. Even in such a situation, the violation in respect of the
cargo viz. the non-declaration of the RSP on the auto parts, a
debatable point of interpretation, cannot be held against the
appellant to result in the revocation of their licence. Here, it is to
be noted that the bill of entry was filed after the detention of the
goods for inquiry by the DRI Officers and request for physical
verification of the cargo before assessment has been made in
the form of first check bill of entry. We find that the impugned
order passed on dis-agreement with the inquiry report has not
brought out clear sustainable ground for such extreme action of
revocation of licence. Violation of CBLR, 2013 has not been
brought out as all the points have been elaborately discussed in
the inquiry report and no sustainable ground for differing with
the same could be made out. Upholding this order, Hon'ble Delhi High Court has as reported at
[2017 (348) ELT 625 (Del) observed as follows: 34 C/86869/2021

deed and two existing partners and that its IEC copy, PAN Card,
telephone bill of the firm, Voter ID of the partners, copy of the
partnership deed have been verified by the respondent." 4.12 In view of discussions as above we do not find any merits in
any of the findings recorded by the Principal Commissioner, in
respect of any of the charges framed against the appellant under
regulation 10 (a), (d), (e), (m) & (n), whereas the findings
recorded by the enquiry officer are more justifiable and logical.
In the case of ACE Global Industries [2018 (364) ELT 841 (Tri
Chennai)] tribunal observed as follows: 4.13 Even if we hold that the appellant is guilty of the charges
leveled against him then also can his license be revoked for that
reason in the circumstances of this case. In case of KVS Cargo
[2019 (365) ELT 392 (Tri Del.)] tribunal held: 8. The investigations undertaken by DRI has established that
the imports have been made making use of the IEC Code
number of M/s. Unisys Enterprises. The partners of M/s. Unisys
Enterprise have admitted that they were not the actual importers
but the import was organized by Shri Amar Vachhar. For
monitory considerations, the IEC code number was allowed to be
utilised by M/s. Unisys Enterprise. It is further on record that
Shri Amar Vachhar has been in touch with Shri Sameer Jha,
proprietor of appellant firm. 9. Violation of Regulation 11(a) has been alleged against the
appellant. The argument of the appellant is that there is no need
for a personal meeting of the CB with the importer. However, we
find that this is a case where IEC of the importer firm was being
misused by a third person, Shri Amar Vachhar who was neither
partner nor held any other official position in that firm. Both the
partners of M/s. Unisys Enterprises have disclosed in their
statements to DRI that they were not aware of the details of the
imports and had never met Shri Sameer Jha, proprietor of CB.
From this, it emerges that the appellant has failed to obtain the
authorization from the actual importer and violation of Regulation 11(a) stands established. 10. Regarding Regulation 11(d) , requiring the CB to advice their
client to comply with the provisions of customs Act, it stands
 36 C/86869/2021

established that the appellant has not even met the actual
importer and as such requesting of advising the client for
compliance of various legal positions does not arise. In view of
the above failure to observe Regulation 11(d) stands
established. 11. Regulation 11(e) requires due diligence to ascertain the
correctness of information which he imparts to client. In the
facts of the present case, both the partners of M/s. Unisys
Enterprise, have admitted that they were unaware of the actual
imports made in their name. Further, the appellant also has
admitted that they never met the owner of the firm. From this it
appears that the appellant failed to exercise due diligence to
ascertain the correctness of information which he imparted to
the client with reference to work related to clearance of cargo. 12. Regulation 11(n) requires the CB to verify the antecedents,
correctness of IEC code no., identity of the client and its
functioning at the declared address. In the present case, we find
that the appellant has simply accepted the address appearing in
the driving license of Shri Sachin Gulati, partner of M/s. Unisys
Enterprise. The appellant failed to notice that the address in the
IEC document is different. Had the appellant made any serious
verification, he would have known that the IEC of the firm was
being used by a third person, Shri Aman Vachhar. Consequently,
we are of the view that violation of Regulation 11(n) stands
established for failure to verify antecedents, correctness of IEC
details. 13. As discussed above, we conclude that the appellant is guilty
of violations of CBLR 2013. However, considering all the facts
and circumstances, of the case, we are of the view that revoking
the CB license is too grave a penalty to be imposed for the
above violations. The ends of justice will be met by imposing a
penalty of Rs. 50,000/- on the appellant, in addition to the
forfeiture of the whole amount of security deposit.
4.14 Principal Commissioner has relied upon the following
decisions in his order: HLPL Global Logistics Pvt. Ltd. [2019 (370) E.L.T. 501
(Tri. - De!.)} wherein it was held that - However we find that the said decision has not been rendered in
a proceedings initiated under CBLR, but is under section 110(2) of the Customs Act, 1962 as observed by the tribunal in para 5
reproduced below: "5. We have heard rival contentions and perused the case
record. The issue before us is to decide as to whether the
appellants has any role in the deliberate overvaluation of the
imported goods by the importer and also whether they have
failed to verify the KYC norm as per the CBLR, 2013. We find
that the show cause notice has been issued under Section
110(2) of the Act and not under the Section 124 of the Customs
Act. For the better appreciation of the fact, we hereby reproduce
the provisions of Section 110 of the Act : Section 110(2) of the Act deals with extension of time period for
issuance of show cause notice within prescribed period of six
months of the seizure of the goods." 4.15 Thus we are of the opinion that enquiry officer has more
reasonably concluded in the matter, and the appellant CB can at
the most be held guilty for contravention of the Regulation 10 (n). Various High Courts have held that punishment for the
offences should be proportionate to the gravity of offence. In the
present we do not find that appellant was in any way responsible
for any act of misconduct but is vicariously responsible for the
acts of their employees, hence the punishment of revocation of
licence is much harsh and disproportionate to the offences
committed. 4.16 Delhi High Court has in case of Falcon Air Cargo and
Travels (P) Ltd [2002 (140) ELT 8 (DEL)] held as follows: 4.17 Delhi High Court has in case of Ashiana Cargo
Services[2014 (302) ELT 161 (DEL)] held as follows: 4.18 Bombay High Court has in case of AS Vasan & Sons
(Bombay)[2010 (249) ELT 492 (BOM)] held as follows: 4.20 We also take note of the following submissions made by
the appellant which have not been disputed by the revenue
authorities:  Their aggregate turnover for the last five years is about Rs
 1591.18 crores.  They have performed their functions throughout as Custom
 Brokers with utmost care and diligence, and their past
 record is evidence for their goodwill, integrity and
 efficiency in handling the customs related works.
  They have nine branches spread across the country and
 employ about 250 persons, the order of revocation of their
 license will not only be harsh on them but will deprive all
 the persons employed by them from their livelihood. 4.21 In view of the above discussions we are inclined to modify
the impugned order to extent of: 5.1 Appeal is partly allowed as indicated in para 4.21 above. (Order pronounced in the open court)

 (Sanjiv Srivastava)
 Member (Technical)

 (P. Dinesha)
 Member (Judicial)

tvu