As declared by the petitioner, this is his first application under Section 438 Cr.P.C seeking anticipatory bail. 2. The case of the prosecution, in short, is that pretending that

they want to buy some medicines, a group of perpetrators kidnapped

the complainant Kapil Pastor on 11.06.2021. They first called him to

his shop and on his arrival, they forced him to sit in their swift desire

car being driven by the petitioner. They took him to a deserted place

which were ruins of some old building. On the way, they thrashed

him by kicks and fists and also abused him. Rahul gagged his mouth,

Yash wielded a country made pistol on his head due to which he lost

consciousness. When he regained consciousness, found himself in an

abandoned remains of some old building. He was surrounded by co-

accused persons Ritik, Rahul, Yash and Mayank. They again abused 2 him. Rahul beat him with a stick and Mayank & Ritik beat him with

belt. They were asking him to follow their instructions. Rahul and

Yash demanded Rs.5 Lakhs under the threat that otherwise

they will implicate him in some case of supply of illegal firearms or

selling fake/duplicate Remdesivir injections. Yash forced him to have

country made pistol in his hand and shot a video forcing him to state

that the firearms belonged to him and he used to supply the same.

Rahul shot another video forcing him to state that he is indulged in

the sell of duplicate Remdesivir injections. They further tortured him

to extort Rs.5 Lakhs. 3. During this entire episode, Yash and Rahul were talking to

some Vora Bhai on mobile. Vora Bhai also joined them after some

time. They all beat him and tortured him to give the money. After

sometime they called some Alto Car and forced him to sit on its back

seat. Rahul and Yash sat on his both sides. Ritik sat on the front seat

and one of them sat on the drivers seat. Vora Bhai started guiding

them by his Activa scooter bearing registration No.MP 04 UG 4115

and they all took him to a flat somewhere in Katara Hills and locked

him there. Here again they thrashed him and forced him to sit under

the stairs and poured water on him and also gave him electric shocks.

Here they again shot video on his mobile and forced him to state that

he is indulged in blackmarketing of Remdesivir injections. Yash and

Rahul forwarded the video on their mobile phones and threatened

him that in case he will not give the money, they will viral the video. 3 4. Harassed, complainant, finding no other way, agreed to give

them Rs.50,000/- then and there. He also agreed to pay Rs.70,000/-

to 80,000/- later on and requested them to let him go. Thereafter, the

offenders returned his mobile phone. He called his friends Vivek,

Devendra and Sumit and requested them to send Rs.10,000/- each.

Vivek sent him Rs.10,000/- on "Phone Pay", Devendra sent

Rs.2000/-. Thereafter he transferred Rs.24,000/- using his credit

card through Paytm. He again transferred Rs.45,000/- through

"Phone Pay" on the mobile of Rahul. He again transferred Rs.4000/-

to Rahul in the same manner. On their instructions, he further

transferred Rs.530/-to some fast food vendor through his phone and

requested them to leave him stating that he does have more money to

transfer. 5. Acceding his request, they allowed him to go under the threat

that if he does not pay Rs.2 Lakhs or discloses the incident before

any one, they will implicate him in some false case by handing over

the video shot by them to the Crime Branch. Rahul, Ritik, Yash

alongwith driver dropped him near his house at about 2:30 by Alto

Car. He did not disclose the incident before his family members but

when his friends Faiz and Arman came to his house, he revealed the

entire incident before them who thereafter disclosed the same

before his family members. They decided to approach the police

and thereafter the complainant lodged the present FIR. 4 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the Police

have not conducted proper investigation. It is unbelievable and

improbable that during the night curfew imposed in the wake of

outburst of Covid-19 Virus, co-accused persons take the victime in a

Car and drop him outside his house at 2:30 at night and no one

noticed them. It is urged that the victim was electrocuted by co-

accused persons but no such injury has been detected. The M.L.C.

of of the victim was conducted after a month of the incident and only

simple injuries have been observed. This make the case of the

prosecution doubtful. 7. It is further submitted that Close Circuit Cameras installed in

the house of petitioner Ritik Bahtam, shows that he was sitting

outside the house at 1:30 in the night. Immediately after five days of

the incident he submitted those footage to the Police, the mother of

the petitioner made complaint to the Superintendent of Police, they

also made a request to the Court of Judicial Magistrate to investigate

the point of the petitioners but no one paid heed to their cry. It is

further submitted that petitioner, Ritik Batham, is an literate person,

has completed his graduation (B.B.A) and pursuing his Law, he has

to appear in second semester of of Ll.B. First year. His arrest may

spoil his future. Therefore, his rights may be protected. Lastly it is

submitted that there is a subsequent development. The complainant

is demanding money stating that in case his demand is fulfilled, he 5 will not name the petitioners before the Court and this shows the

conduct of the complainant and falsifies his allegation. 8. Learned counsel for the petitioner referred to a compact disc of

C.C.T.V. footage placed on record of this petition and copy of

complaint (Annexure P-4 and P-5) made to the higher police

authorities to investigate the case properly; particularly in respect of

close circuit camera recordings installed at the house of petitioner. 9. In reply, Mr. Khampariya, appearing for the state referred to

the F.I.R., the police statement of the witnesses, the Court statement

of complainant Kapil Pastor (PW-2) and other evidence available on

record and had submitted that there is cogent evidence against the

petitioner detailing the part played by him. It is further submitted

that plea of alibi is the defence of the petitioner, which has to be

established by him by producing evidence before the Trial Court. At

this stage considering that plea only quashment of the proceedings

which have already been initiated and pending is not proper. Lastly

it is asserted that petitioner is still absconding and is not cooperating

with the investigation. The Police have completed investigation in a

case which was registered in June, 2021 and filed the charge-sheet.

He never responded to the call of the Police, never cooperated with

the investigation; therefore, left with no other choice the Police

segregated his case and filed a charge-sheet against co-accused

persons and still trying to apprehend him. The conduct of the

petitioner disentitles him from any relief from this Court. Besides 6 this the petitioner has criminal record also for which learned counsel

 for the petitioner has no explanation. Therefore, the petition may be

 dismissed. 10. Having regard to the nature and gravity of the offence, the

 allegation made against the petitioner, act attributed to him,

 submissions made and apprehensions expressed by the learned Panel

 Lawyer and other facts and circumstances of the case, in the

 considered opinion of this Court, no case for granting anticipatory

 bail is made out. Therefore, the petition stands dismissed. Virender Singh)
 JUDGE
 VIVEK Digitally signed by VIVEK KUMAR TRIPATHI Date: 2022.01.17 10:28:59 +05'30'