13-02-2024 1. Heard the learned counsel for both sides. Perused the pleadings

 and the documents therewith. 2. The petitioner is suffering continuing judicial custody on account

 of his arrest carried out by the Directorate of Enforcement („ED‟

 in short) Srinagar Zonal Office by reference to a Case No.

 ECIR/SRZO/04/2021 dated 31.03.2021. 3. The petitioner came to be arrested on 30.11.2023 by the ED in

 purported exercise of its power to arrest vested under section 19 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 2 of 20 4. The factual background in which the ED came to emerge on the

 scene and register an Enforcement Case Information Report

 („ECIR‟ in short) No. ECIR/SRZO/04/2021 dated 31.03.2021

 needs to be set out first before coming to deal with the facts and

 circumstances of the present case in light of which the petitioner

 is pressing for and seeking bail under section 439 of Criminal

 Procedure Code, 1973 read with section 44(2) of the Prevention

 of Money Laundering Act, 2002. 5. The petitioner is claimed to have been elected to be on the Board

 of Directors of the J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar in

 December 2018. The tenure of the elected Board of Directors of

 the J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar was for three (3) years

 to expire in December 2021. 6. However, the elected Board of Directors of the J&K State

 Cooperative Bank, Srinagaris said to have been prematurely

 dislodged on 15.05.2020 when the Government, in purported

 exercise of its statutory power under the J&K Cooperative

 Societies Act, 1989, came to nominate a governing body of the

 J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar. Thus, only from

 December 2018 to May, 2020, the petitioner purportedly served

 as Chairman of the J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar. 7. An alleged registered cooperative society in the name of "River

 Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society", purported to be

 aregistered and governed under the J&K State Cooperative

 Societies Act, 1989 had come to approach the J&K Cooperative Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 3 of 20 Bank, Srinagar with an application for loan routed through the

 end of the Registrar Cooperative Societies J&K, for the purpose

 of availing a loan of rupees three hundred crores (Rs.300/-

 crores) for the purported purpose of development of a housing

 colony upon 300 kanals of land situated at Shivpora, Srinagar

 meant to be a satellite township. 8. The said loan case of the River Jhelum Cooperative House

 Building Society is reported to have been sanctioned by the

 governing body/council of the J&K State Cooperative Bank

 Limited in September, 2018 wherefrom the Board of Directors of

 the J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar had accorded its

 approval for the grant of loan in favour of the River Jhelum

 Cooperative House Building Society by virtue of a decision taken

 in March, 2019. 9. Thus, as per the statement of facts in the present petition, the

 process of availing of loan by the River Jhelum Cooperative

 House Building Society from the J&K State Cooperative Bank,

 Srinagar had originated from the Registrar Cooperative Societies

 J&K‟s end before the petitioner‟sbecoming the Chairman of the

 Board of Directors of the J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar

 and further that the approval for grant of loan of rupees 250/-

 crore was not accorded by the petitioner in his own discretion and

 authority but by the Board of Directors of the J&K State

 Cooperative Bank, Srinagar‟s approval of which the petitioner

 was one of the directors. 10. The loan amount of rupees two hundred and thirty-three crores

 (Rs.233/- crores)allegedly came to be loaned to the River Jhelum

 Cooperative House Building Society on 25.4.2019.The mode in

 which the sanctioned loan amount of rupees 233/- crores stood

 disbursed by the J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar was in

 the form of payments to the actual identified landowners/land

 holders from whom the River Jhelum Cooperative House

 Building Societywas in purported deals to acquire 257.19 kanals

 of land. For the land so acquired/ purchased in plots‟ shape from

 the different named landowners/land holders, a proper lien in the

 revenue record is said to have been accorded in favor of the J&K

 State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar as being financing bank. 11. An FIR no. 04/2020 dated 8.3.2020 came to be registered by the

 Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Srinagar for alleged commission

 of offences under section 465, 467, 468, 471, 120-B RPC read

 with section 5(i)(d) and section 5(2) of J&K Prevention of

 Corruption Act, Samvat 2006 regarding illegalities and

 irregularities with respect to the entire matter of availing and

 grant of loan by the River Jhelum Cooperative House Building

 Society from the J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar. In fact,

 it wasupon registration of this FIR that the elected Board of

 Directors of the J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar had come

 to be superseded by the Government as a fall out. 12. The petitioner came to be arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau

 (ACB) in connection with said FIR no. 04/2020 on 03.6.2020 Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 5 of 20 when he is said to havemade a voluntary surrender and remained

 under the police and judicial custody lasting up to 15.12.2020

 when the petitioner came to be granted bail by this court in a bail

 application no. 66/2020 vide a judgment dated 15.12.2020. 13. In furtherance to the investigation of FIR no. 04/2020, the Anti-

 Corruption Bureau (ACB), Srinagar, came to present a final

 Police Report dated 11.8.2020 followed by a Supplementary

 Police Report dated 17.11.2020 before the Court of Special Judge

 (Anti-Corruption), Srinagar wherein the trial of the case is

 reportedly going on. The petitioner along with other co-accused

 is facing trial. 14. The final police report read with supplementary police report

 under section 173 J&K Cr.P.C , Svt. 1989 has named five persons

 as accused who being HilalAhmad Mir (Chairman, River Jhelum

 Cooperative House Building Society), Abdul Hamid Hajam

 (Secretary, River Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society),

 MohammadMujeeb Ur Rehman Ghassi (then Registrar,

 CooperativeSocieties, J&K), Syed Ashiq Hussain (then Deputy

 Registrarof Cooperative Societies) and the petitioner herein

 Mohammad Shafi Dar (then Chairman, J&K State Cooperative

 Bank, Srinagar). All the five persons have been booked for trial

 for alleged commission of offences under section 120-

 B/420/467/471 of RPC and section 5(1)(c)(d) read with section

 5(2) of the J&K Prevention of Corruption Act, Samvat 2006. Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 6 of 20 15. The coming into picture of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is

 when on 31.03.2021 it came to register ECIR/SRZO/04/2021

 dated 31.3.2021 in the course of investigation whereof it led to

 the arrest of the petitioner on 30.11.2023 purportedly reckoning

 money laundering angle in the case. 16. As per ED‟s narrative, the petitioner facilitated documentation

 with respect to the grant of loan to the tune of rupees 250/- crores

 to a fictitious society River Jhelum Cooperative House Building

 Society for which purpose got a back-dated resolution in the

 minutes of General Body meeting of 08.09.2018 of the J&K State

 Cooperative Bank, Srinagar which allegedly came to be approved

 by the Bank‟s Board of Management in its meeting on 31.3.2019. 17. As per the ED, it was the petitioner whoguided the sanction and

 grant of the big loan without any proper documents,without

 following any KYC norms, without obtaining any tangible

 security and also in violation of the credit policy of the bank for

 grant of loan of this high scale and that constituted a quid pro quo

 for the petitioner to obtain the proceeds of crime under the

 pretext of loan to a non-existent cooperative society which loan

 money was then siphoned off in acquisition of land parcels as

 proceeds of crime from various land owners to the tune of rupees

 223/- crores. 18. It is stated, as a fact, by the ED that loan disbursement of rupees

 223/- crores came to take place through bank accounts of 18 Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 7 of 20 landowners from whom the land came to be acquired by the

 River Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society. 19. In purported exercise of its authority under the Prevention of

 Money Laundering Act, 2002 the ED came to attach the land

 parcels so acquired by the River Jhelum Cooperative House

 Building Society from 18 landowners which is said to be worth

 value of Rs.193.46 crore and attachment was carried out by way

 of provisional attachment order no. 01/2023 dated 14.12.2023

 issued under section 5 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

 2002. 20. The tone and tenor of the formative narrative of the ED is as if

 the entire exercise involving River Jhelum Cooperative House

 Building Society coming forward with the loan proposal to the

 J&K State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar with indulgence of the

 Registrar of Cooperative Societies as being the statutory authority

 under J&K Cooperative Societies Act, 1989 was a sham exercise

 to siphon off bank money to become and turn into proceeds of

 crime in the hands of petitioner and co-actors. 21. It is an admitted case that the ED originally initiated its

 investigative action against the petitioner and the co-actornamely

 Hilal Ahmad Mir against whom along with the petitioner the

 Anti-Corruption Bureau, Srinagar came up with final police

 report dated 11.8.2020 read with supplementary police report

 dated 17.11.2020 roping in three more persons as accused. Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 8 of 20 22. Before coming to deal with the plea of the petitioner, an

 intervening development of relevance and importance bearing

 needs to bereferred to in examining the plea of the petitioner for

 grant of bail and the opposing plea of the ED to deny bail in

 favour of the petitioner. 23. In this regard, it is a matter of fact that the landowners/holders

 with whom the alleged River Jhelum Cooperative House

 Building Society came to make land purchase deals and in whose

 bank accounts the purported sale consideration amount had been

 put in by the utilization of the loan amount availed by the River

 Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society from the J&K State

 Cooperative Bank, Srinagar, had felt aggrieved when their

 respective bank accounts came to be frozen consequent upon

 attachment of the land parcels purportedly transferred/sold by

 them which came to be carried out by the Divisional

 Commissioner, Kashmir on the recommendations of Anti-

 Corruption Bureau (ACB), Srinagar and for which grievance

 redressal purpose the aggrieved landowners/bank account holders

 had petitioned this court for seeking release of their respective

 bank accounts so as to operate the same for utilization of the

 money credited to them on account of purported transfer of their

 respective land parcels in favor of the River Jhelum Cooperative

 House Building Society. 24. The petition, Crl.M 739/2020 came to suffer dismissal from this

 court vide an order dated 28.12.2020, which drove the aggrieved Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 9 of 20 landowners/account holders to petition the Hon‟ble Supreme

 Court of India in which vide interlocutory orders passed from

 time to time shaping up in passing of final order dated

 10.10.2023. 25. In this regard the first order is dated 08.03.2021 whereby the

 attachment order in respect of the accounts of the landowners

 who had approached the Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India was

 lifted in toto without any restrictions on their right to operate

 their accounts. In terms of an order dated 16.8.2021 the Hon‟ble

 Supreme Court of India made it clear that the banks in which the

 accounts of the aggrieved landownerswere lying are allowed to

 be operated upon de-freezing. 26. In its next interlocutory order dated 17.8.2022, the Hon‟ble

 Supreme Court of India came up with an observation to the effect

 that the standpoint of the respondents in matter beforethe Hon‟ble

 Supreme Court of India was a contradiction in itself by observing

 that it cannot be said that the petitioners,as Kashmiri Pandit

 migrants had sold the land at less than market rate. 27. So much so,with respect to some of the concerned landowners

 who had come to receive inquiry call from the ED‟s end, the

 Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India came to restrain the ED

 proceeding against the said landowners with respect to whose

 lands the deal had been made with the River Jhelum Cooperative

 House Building Society for the purpose of development of

 satellite township by use of bank loan from J&K State Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 10 of 20 Cooperative Bank, Srinagar. Thus complicity of the landowners

 in the alleged scam was not endorsed by the Hon‟ble Supreme

 Court thereby at least confirming the fact that land deals were

 actual, whether legal or not, a different matter. 28. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India, in its order dated

 17.08.2022, came to take notice of submissions of the counsel

 representing the River Jhelum Cooperative House Building

 Society that it was willing to abide by its arrangement made with

 the Bank and pay the loan amount with interest except seeking

 concession with interest for the period when the attachment order

 was in operation. 29. In its final order dated 10.10.2023, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court of

 India came to observe that in terms of various directions passed

 from time to time, the issue so far as the owners/sellers of the

 land are concerned stood closed by lifting the attachment of the

 bank accounts of the said landowners/sellers. 30. Thus prima facie even the Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India read

 the land deals in whatever form between the landowners/sellers

 with the River Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society

 prima faciehaving taken place in actuality entitling the

 landowners/sellers to use of their respective consideration

 amounts received in their respective bank accounts coming under

 attachment and further with respect to the intervention of the ED

 in calling landowners/sellers for the inquiry purpose deserving

 stay. 31. The petitioner came to approach the court of Special Judge Anti-

 Corruption (CBI cases)Srinagar with an application on file no.

 552 filed on 02.12.2023 followed by Hilal Ahmad Mir, Chairman

 of River Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society for seeking

 bail in context of their arrest carried out by the ED in exercise of

 power under section 19 of the Prevention of Money Laundering

 Act, 2002. 32. The court of Special Judge Anti-Corruption (CBI cases), Kashmir

 Srinagar came to reject the bail application of the petitioner

 herein by an order dated 15.12.2023. 33. The petitioner in his bail application before the Special Judge

 Anti-Corruption (CBI cases) Srinagar had pressed into service

 his health related condition for earning bail. 34. The Court of Special Judge Anti-Corruption (CBI cases) Srinagar

 refers to the gravity of economic offences and in view of the

 power under section 45 of the Prevention of Money Laundering

 Act, 2002 came to arrive at a considered view that at the given

 stage of investigation of the matter by the ED, it was not

 appropriate to release the petitioner on bail. 35. This rejection of bail application came to take place by virtue of

 an order dated 15.12.2023 dejected whereof the petitioner has

 come forward that the present bail application before this court

 invoking section 439 of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. In fact,

 the bail application is entertainable under J&K Criminal

 Procedure Code , Svt. 1989 given the fact that the scheduled Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 12 of 20 offences in the case registered against the petitioner and others

 are under Ranbir Penal Code (RPC) and J&K Prevention of

 Corruption Act, Svt. 2006, which are triable under J&K Criminal

 Procedure Code , Svt., 1989 given the time of

 occurrence/commission of said offences. 36. The ED, in its objection, to the present bail application of the

 petitioner has registered vehement opposition on the ground that

 the petitioner is prima facie guilty of commission of offences of

 money laundering and came to be arrested under section 9(1) of

 Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 on 30.11.2023 when

 he was found evasive and non-cooperative in the investigation.

 By referring to the rejection of his bail application by the court of

 Special Judge Anti-Corruption (CBI cases) Srinagar, the ED in its

 objection is stating that the nature and gravity of the accusation

 against the petitioner is very serious and that the petitioner being

 an influential person and former chairman of J&K State

 Cooperative Bank, Srinagar has the potential to make adverse

 impact not only on the progress of the case but also on the trust of

 the people in the criminal justice system. The ED reckons the

 petitioner to be highly influential with the potentiality to tamper

 with the evidence. The gist of the opposition on the part of the

 ED to the bail application of the petitioner is that the entire

 networking of the crime leading to the registration of the FIR no.

 04/2020 dated 8.3.2022 by the ACB, Srinagar is centered around

 the identified individuals and they being Hilal Ahmad Mir Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 13 of 20 (chairman River Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society),

 Abdul Hamid Hajam (Secretary of River Jhelum Cooperative

 House Building Society), Mohammad Mujeeb Ur Rehman Ghassi

 (the then Registrar of Cooperative Societies, J&K), Syed Ashiq

 Hussain (the then Deputy Registrar of Cooperative Societies,

 J&K) and Mohammad Shafi Dar, the petitioner herein. 37. In its objections, the ED attributes the acts of omission and

 commission to the petitioner as if he single-handedly orchestrated

 the sanctioning of the loan of rupees 250/- crores in favor of non-

 existent society, River Jhelum Cooperative House Building

 Society, Shivpora, Srinagar, for the development of satellite

 township at Shivpora, Srinagar. 38. The ED refers to the fact that the disbursement of sanctioned loan

 of rupees 250/- crore was made by the J&K State Cooperative

 Bank, Kashmir, through its general current account no.

 0252010100004077 maintained with the J&K Bank from where

 an amount of rupees 223 crores in installments on different dates

 came to be transferred directly to the bank accounts of 18 land

 sellers on the instructions by way of issuance of cheques by Hilal

 Ahmad Mir, the Chairman of the River Jhelum Cooperative

 House Building Society. 39. The petitioner is alleged to have prepared a back-dated resolution

 proposing grant of loan of rupees 250 crores to the fictitious

 society of River Jehlum Cooperative House Building Society and

 consequently managed to include this back-dated resolution in Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 14 of 20 the minutes of general body meeting dated 8.9.2018 which was

 approved by the Board of Management in its meeting dated

 21.3.2019. 40. The grant and approval of the loan by the J&K State Cooperative

 Bank, Kashmir is said to be without any proper documents,

 without following any KYC norms, without obtaining any

 tangible security and also in violation of the Credit Policy of the

 bank for grant of a loan of this high magnitude. 41. The amount obtained through fraudulent practices which are

 nothing but the "proceeds of crime" under the garb of loan to the

 non-existing society were utilized in acquisition of land parcels

 from various sellers to the tune of rupees 223 crores. 42. Towards examining the bail plea of the petitioner in the context

 of his arrest effected under the Prevention of Money Laundering

 Act, 2002 , this court has to bear in mind that the set of conditions

 prescribed under section 45 of the Prevention of Money

 Laundering Act, 2002 in addition to the ones obtaining in the

 context of section 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code

 corresponding to section 498 of the J&K Criminal Procedure

 Code , Svt. 1989 requiring to be there for exercise of discretion.

 The set of conditions are grant of an opportunity to the ED to

 oppose the bail application and satisfaction that there are

 reasonable grounds for believing that the arrestee is not guilty of

 such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence

 while on bail. Proviso to section 45 does provide a scope for Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 15 of 20 grant of bail free of burden of the aforesaid conditions in case of

 an arrestee who is under 16 years of age, women or sick or infirm

 person. In the present case, the ED has come in opposition by

 availing an opportunity of filing its objections to the bail petition

 of the petitioner and that serves the very first requirement. 43. Now comes the question whether there are reasonable grounds

 for pleading before and impressing this court that the petitioner is

 not guilty of such offence, and he is not likely to commit any

 offence while on bail. 44. Obviously, the offence in perspective in context of section 45of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002is the offence of

 money laundering constituted by section 3 of the Prevention of

 Money Laundering Act, 2002. Section 3 is reproduced as under: [Explanation. --For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that,-- (i) a person shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering if such person
 is found to have directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or knowingly
 assisted or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in one or more of
 the following processes or activities connected with proceeds of crime,
 namely: -- (a) concealment; or (b) possession; or (c) acquisition; or (d) use; or (e) projecting as untainted property; or (f) claiming as untainted property, in any manner whatsoever. (ii) the process or activity connected with proceeds of crime is a
 continuing activity and continues till such time a person is directly or
 indirectly enjoying the proceeds of crime by its concealment or
 possession or acquisition or use or projecting it as untainted property or
 claiming it as untainted property in any manner whatsoever.] Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 16 of 20 45. For the sake of consideration of grant or non-grant of bail, the

 exercise in the name of application of judicial mind to be done

 by this court has to be stretched or restricted only to prima facie

 extent and cannot and shall not overextend further as that would

 mean overstepping to the extent of prejudging a case at a stage

 when the full display of facts constituting the culpability and

 criminality of the acts of the accused person is yet to come in its

 trial form and its end destination thereby risking a prejudice, for

 or against the prosecution or defense. 46. Bearing in mind the said extent and limitation in evaluating the

 present case for the purpose of considering the bail plea of the

 petitioner, this court would say and observe with surety as a fact

 that the petitioner was the chairman of a cooperative society

 doing banking business in the name of the J&K State Cooperative

 Bank Limited, Kashmir and as such it is a matter of routine for a

 cooperative bank to extend financial assistance in the form of a

 loan to its members or even to a cooperative society seeking loan.

 In the present case, it was perhaps not in the domain of the J&K

 State Cooperative Bank, Srinagar or its functionaries/officials to

 first get certified the status of the River Jhelum Cooperative

 House Building Society particularly when the official of govt.

 department and/or the Registrar Cooperative Societies, State of

 J&K as being the highest administrative and statutory authority

 under J&K Cooperative Societies Act, 1989 was/were Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 17 of 20 recommending the case of the River Jhelum Cooperative House

 Building Society. 47. Whether or not the decision on the part of J&K State Cooperative

 Bank, Srinagar, Kashmir headed by the petitioner as its chairman

 was an act of a prudent banking or not , with due diligence or not

 is surely a matter which can be looked from the criminal

 culpability view and that is why the Anti-Corruption Bureau

 ACB Kashmir has come to present a police challan against the

 culprits including the petitioner but still the advancement of a

 bank loan has taken place by disbursement of amount to the bank

 accounts of the beneficiaries who are said to be, and are not

 disputed to be, the actual landowners who willingly parted with

 their respective possession of the respective lands in favor of

 River Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society and in return

 received the consideration amount. Thus, the use of the bank loan

 amount per se cannot be presumed to be meant for the purpose of

 generation and diversion of the proceeds of crime from the point

 of perspective of a banker. The transfer of land title on the basis

 of utilization of loan amount is supposed to be in the name of

 cooperative society i.e. River Jhelum Cooperative House

 Building Society and not in the name of any individual.

 Obviously, upon getting the pool of land at its disposal the River

 Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society was supposed to

 carry out the plot allocation/allotment to its members or would-

 be members against consideration/premium to earn the profit and Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 18 of 20 repay the loan amount in the transaction and therefore the asset

 created by utilization of the bank loan from the point of view of

 J&K State Cooperative Bank with petitioner as its administrative

 head, not as management head, cannot be said to be with an end

 objective relatable to diversion of proceeds of crime and

 amounting to money laundering. Thus, the petitioner is well

 within his right to say and agitate that so long as the decision to

 grant loan on behalf of the J&K State Cooperative Bank,

 Kashmir, Srinagar is to be reckoned as having been taken by the

 Board of Management then the liability and the responsibility for

 the said decision cannot be individualized to the petitioner alone

 and absolving the rest of the board members. 48. The argument by an inference on the part of the learned counsel

 for the petitioner makes sense and appeal that the petitioner was

 not having any vetoauthority as chairman of the Board of

 Management of the Bank as a result whereof the decision to

 sanction the loan was carried out solely by the petitioner by force

 of his own discretion and dictate over ruling and making the rest

 of the Board of Management as non-participant in the decision

 making and the decision itself. 49. Examining the things from this angle, the petitioner can be said to

 have a prima facie case in his favor just for the sake of earning

 bail which by no stretch of reasoning and reference is going to

 earn him any reprieve from facing trial in a criminal case if the

 ED is able to find out legal basis for his complicity and Bail Application 170 of 2023 Page 19 of 20 culpability in money laundering along with other accused

 persons whomsoever in the case. 50. The petitioner has ceased to be the chairman of J&K State

 Cooperative Bank since 2020 and as such that denudes him from

 any position to influence any aspect relatable to the case. In

 addition, the sickness of the petitioner is also a ground

 persuading this court to grant him bail. The court of Special

 Judge Anti-Corruption (CBI cases) Srinagar, brushedaside the

 aspect of matter with respect to reported sickness of the petitioner

 saying that the heart related medical condition of the petitioner

 can be investigated even when the petitioner is suffering arrest

 custody. There is no denying the fact that the petitioner is 63

 years old person and at this stage of life any health deteriorating

 condition if neglected that too in a state of custody can cause

 complications and in the present case. There is a medical

 reference on record to prima facie establish that the petitioner is

 having heard related complication which the petitioner in

 exercise of his fundamental right to personal liberty is well within

 his right to get it treated to the best of his resources and discretion

 and in that regard the public exchequer can be absolved from

 bearing the burden of medically attending the petitioner in

 custody. 51. In the light of the aforesaid, a case is made out for grant of bail

 by allowing the bail plea of the petitioner. The petition is thus

 allowed. 52. The petitioner is hereby granted bail subject to the terms and

 conditions of furnishing personal bond to the tune of rupees ten

 lacs to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Jail concerned

 and surety bond of two sureties of like amount to the satisfaction

 of Registrar Judicial, Srinagar of this court. The petitioner shall

 not leave the territorial jurisdiction of Special Judge Anti-

 Corruption (CBI cases) Srinagar without due permission from the

 said court by making an application to the said effect by show of

 reasons. The petitioner shall not in any manner influence or

 intermeddle with the investigation/trial of the case as may come

 to be set up by the ED against him. The petitioner shall be bound

 to present himself in person as and when called and summoned

 by the ED or the Special Court /Authority in connection with the

 case in reference. 53. The observations made herein by the court are only for the

 purpose of this petition and not beyond its scope and that too only

 in the context of the petitioner. Disposed of. 55. In view of the adjudication of this bail application, the connected

 Criminal Revision (Crl R 51/2023) is rendered infructuous and

 hence disposed of accordingly. (RAHUL BHARTI)
 JUDGE
Srinagar
13-02-2024
N Ahmad

 Whether the order is speaking : Yes
 Whether the order is reportable : Yes