Petitioner claims to be a Consultant of The Members

Recreation Lounge. According to him, he is neither the office

bearer nor the member of the said club, but the fifth respondent

has registered a case against him and others in Crime No.94 of

2017, alleging that poker game and wagering were being played

by non-members of the said club in violation of the conditions

stipulated in the license, causing disturbance to the peace and

tranquility of general public and neighbouring shop owners.

Hence, the complainant obtained search warrant from the

Assistant Commissioner of Police and raided the Members

Recreation Lounge on 24.03.2017. During raid, they

apprehended accused Nos.1 to 13 and recovered cash of

Rs.15,370/-, 22 mother boards, 44 keys, Two sheets, one long

note book etc. On 24.03.2017, the SHO of Basaveshwaranagara 4 Police sought permission of the Court for registration of the case

and pursuant to the orders of the Court, registered a case in

Crime No.94 of 2017 for the offences punishable under sections

79 and 80 of the Karnataka Police Act. 2. Feeling aggrieved by the raid, arrest and seizure of

the above articles by respondent Nos.4 and 5, the petitioner has

filed this writ petition contending that sections 78 , 79 and 80 of

the Karnataka Police Act, 1963 (" K.P. Act " for short) applies only

to the gaming home and not for recreation club which conducts

only game of skill and hence, prima facie interference by

respondent Nos.4 and 5 is illegal and contrary to the provisions

of the K.P. Act for short. Further it is contended that in view of section 176 of the K.P. Act, the provisions of sections 79 and 80 of the K.P. Act are not applicable to pure game of skill and

therefore, registration of the FIR and the consequent

investigation conducted by the respondents being contrary to the

provisions of law, is liable to be set-aside. It is further

contended that the proceedings are initiated against the

petitioner in violation of the provisions of section 155 of Cr.P.C., 5 which mandatorily requires the orders of the Magistrate for

registration of the case. On these grounds, the petitioner has

sought for following reliefs: 3. I have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner

and the learned HCGP for respondent Nos.1 to 4 and perused the

FIR and the documents produced by the petitioner at Annexures

'A' to 'D'. 4. Petitioner has placed reliance on large number of

authorities to contend that the action taken against the

petitioner by respondent Nos.4 and 5 is illegal and in violation of

the provisions of the K.P. Act . But, on considering the

contention urged by the petitioner and the proposition of law laid

down in the various decisions relied on by the learned counsel, I

am of the view that the reliefs claimed by the petitioner are

wholly misconceived and the reliance placed on the above

decisions is totally misplaced. 5. Undisputedly, the substance of the accusations

against the petitioner is that the petitioner not being a member

of The Members Recreation Lounge was found indulging in a

game of chance and wagering. FIR is registered under sections

79 and 80 of K.P. Act. 6. Sections 79 and 80 of the Karnataka Police Act read

as follows: house; b) being the owner or occupier of any such
 building, room, tent, enclosure, vehicle,
 vessel, or place knowingly or wilfully
 permits the same to be opened,
 occupied, kept or used by any other
 person for the purpose aforesaid; c) has the care or management of, or in any
 manner assists in conducting the
 business of any such building, room,
 tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel or place
 opened, occupied, kept or used for the
 purpose aforesaid; or 8 d) advances or furnishes money for the
 purpose of gaming with persons
 frequenting any such building, room, tent
 enclosure, vehicle, vessel, or place; shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment
which may extent to one year and with fine: Whoever is found in any common gaming-house
gaming or present for the purpose of gaming shall,
on conviction, be punished with imprisonment which
may extend to one year and with fine: 7. The contention of the petitioner is that poker played

in a computerized electronic machine (video game), Fantastic 3

played with 3 dices and 6 colour pins is a game of skill and

therefore, the provisions of sections 79 and 80 of the Karnataka

Police Act, 1963 are not applicable in the present set of facts. In

support of this contention, learned counsel for the petitioner has

staunchly relied on section 176 of the K.P. Act which has the

effect of expressly saving the games of skill from the rigors of sections 79 and 80 of the K.P. Act. Section 176 reads as

follows: 8. A reading of section 176 of K.P. Act, no doubt,

indicates that a person taking part in a game of skill could also

wager. But, in the instant case, the material allegations are that

the owner of the Club has willfully permitted the non-members

namely accused Nos.1 to 13 to use the gaming house or the

recreation club for the aforesaid purpose. 9. What constitutes the offence under section 79(b) of

the K.P. Act is the willful conduct of the owner or occupier of any

such building or gaming house in allowing the non-members to

use the gaming house. 10. Ofcourse, in a Club there may be diversion of

activities and the members of the Club while engaged in the

recreation or indulging in the game, in view of section 176 of

K.P. Act, could also wager. But a Club by its very constitution is

a place to which only its members could be admitted. Therefore

it follows that only the members could engage in any diversion

of recreational activities. Such an exemption or concession

cannot be claimed by a non-member. The entry to the Club is

restricted by the terms of the bye-laws of the Club. Therefore, a 11 non-member cannot claim as a matter of right to indulge in any

gaming activities of the Club. 11. In the instant case, no material is produced by the

petitioner to show that neither he nor accused Nos.1 to 13 were

the members of the aforesaid Club at the time of the raid and

that they are entitled, as a matter of right, to play poker in the

aforesaid Club with or without stakes. If infact they were

entitled to play the game of poker as a matter of right as

members of the aforesaid Club, accused Nos.1 to 13 could have

very well claimed the benefit of section 176 of the K.P. Act. A

non-member, therefore, cannot indulge in any gaming activity in

a recreation club or a gaming house, nor can he wager therein.

He can do so only at the peril of facing prosecution. Likewise,

the owner or the occupier of the Club or gaming house would

render himself liable for penal action under sections 79 and 80 of

the K.P. Act for permitting such activities in the licensed Club by

non-members. Therefore, in view of this clear position of law

and fact, in my view, it is not necessary to embark upon any

enquiry as to whether the poker game was a game of skill or a 12 game of chance. As long as the petitioner and other accused

are found indulging in gaming activities run by its owner or

occupier contrary to the terms of the license by allowing non-

members into the building, in my view, the rigors of sections 79 and 80 of the K.P. Act get attracted. Therefore, I do not find any

good ground to accept the contention of the petitioner that

initiation of action against the petitioner on the purported

allegation is illegal and contrary to the provisions of the Karnataka Police Act . Even otherwise, the petitioner is not

being either owner or member of the aforesaid recreation club,

the contention urged by the petitioner, whether poker played in

a computerized electronic machine (video game) in the aforesaid

Club is a game of skill or a game of chance cannot be decided at

the instance of the petitioner. For all these reasons, I am of the

view that the petitioner is not entitled for any of the reliefs

claimed in the petition. 12. In so far as the contention regarding the non-

compliance of section 155 of Cr.P.C. is concerned, suffice it to

note that in the annexures produced by the petitioner himself 13 there is a clear recital that prior to the registration of the FIR,

the necessary permission of the Magistrate was secured by the

respondent No.4. This fact is specifically stated even in the FIR.

Therefore, no grouse could be raised by the petitioner on the

purported ground that for want of prior authorization under section 155 of Cr.P.C., FIR registered against the petitioner and

the consequent investigation is liable to be set-aside. 13. The various decisions relied on by the petitioner, in

my view, are not applicable to the facts of this case. In RAMA

RECREATION ASSOCIATION vs. COMMISSIONER OF POLICE, ILR

1993 Karnataka 3357, the question that arose for consideration

of this court was, whether the activities of a club or the activities

of an Association require licensing under the provisions of the Karnataka Police Act . In the said case, the petitioner therein

was a registered society which was formed by its members for

playing games of recreation like carrom, chess, rummy. The

recreational activities referred above were confined only to the

members of the club. In that context, police authorities having

insisted for the license to run the said club in terms of the 14 Karnataka Public Amusement Licensing Order, this Court held

that, in a Club, there may be any diversion or game but that by

itself will not convert the place into the place of public

amusement. A Club is a place to which only its members are

permitted to engage in any diversion or recreational activities

etc. The entry to the Club is restricted by the terms of the bye-

laws and in that circumstance, it was held that the petitioner

cannot be compelled to obtain a license under the Licensing

Order. In the instant case, the factual matrix is entirely different.

The allegations pertain to misuse of the license by permitting

non-members to use the Club premises for wagering purposes. 14. In the next decision in MOIN BASHA KURNOOLI vs.

THE STATE OF KARNATAKA , 2014 (4) KCCR 3355, the issues

involved were,

 (1) Whether section 78(3) of the K.P. Act is a cognizable

offence or non-cognizable offence, in view of the power of arrest

without a warrant provided under section 88 of the said Act? 15 (2) Whether the investigation of the cases under section

78(3) of the K.P. Act and all further proceedings are vitiated by

incurable illegalities or defects for want of permission to

investigate the case by the competent Magistrate under section

155(2) of Cr.P.C.? (3) Whether the reports (charge sheets) of the Police

Officers with regard to non-cognizable offences can be treated as

complaints under section 2(d) of Cr.P.C.? After analyzing the various decisions on the above points,

this Court laid down certain guidelines to the Magistrate with

regard to the compliance of provisions of section 155 of Cr.P.C.

as well as on application of judicial mind by the Magistrate while

taking cognizance of the offences pertaining to non-cognizable

offences. In the instant case, undisputedly, prior permission as

required under section 155(2) of Cr.P.C. was taken by the fourth

respondent before registration of the FIR. The materials

produced before the Court indicate that the learned Magistrate

has applied his mind to the facts of the case and has granted the

requisite permission. Therefore, even this decision is not helpful 16 to the petitioner to advance the contentions urged in the

petition. 15. In W.P.No.20659/2015, the applicability of section

188 of Indian Penal Code was in question. The said issue is not

germane before us in the instant case. Therefore, the principles laid down in the said decision are not applicable to the facts of

this case. 16. In E.ERANNA & Others vs. THE STATE OF

KARNATAKA, ILR 1977 KAR 793, the conviction of the accused

therein was set-aside on the ground that the essential

ingredients of the offences were not proved. The prosecution

had failed to establish that the petitioner/accused therein was

playing a game of chance. The court therefore held that the

prosecution having failed to prove that 'Andar Bahar' is a game

of chance, there was no justification to maintain the conviction

of the accused and consequently, set-aside the sentence

awarded on the accused. 17. W.P.No.27530/2013, W.P.No.38042/2010 and

W.P.No.14828/2014 related to requirement of license which is

not an issue involved in this case. 18. In D.V.R. RECREATION CLUB vs. THE STATE OF

KARNATAKA & Others , 2017(1) Kar.L.R. 280, the Division Bench

of this Court while interpreting section 176 of the Karnataka

Police Act has held that in view of said provision, a person taking

part in games of skill could also wager. I have followed this

principle while rejecting the contention urged by the petitioner . Thus on overall consideration of all the facts and

circumstances of this case, I hold that the petitioner is not

entitled for the reliefs claimed in the petition. For the aforesaid reasons, the writ petition is dismissed. SD/- JUDGE

Bss.