Per Sri Rajendra  Singh,  Member- This complaint has been filed by the complainant Gyandeo Shukla against the opposite parties  under section 17 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. The brief facts of the complaint case are that, that the complainant is a simple living, salaried person of middle-class family and the father of the deceased Shivam  Shukla . The son of the complainant was living with his brother Satyam Shukla and was preparing for civil services. For this purpose he was living in Lucknow. He suffered abdominal pain many times and when he informed the complainant, the complainant took him to a doctor at Fatehpur and on whose advice his ultrasound examination was done at "Fatehpur Scans Pvt. Ltd." on 27.06.2014. As per report of the ultrasound he had a stone of 9.9 MM in his gallbladder. This report was shown to the Dr who consoled him and gave  some medicine and assured that he will be alright otherwise operation will be performed. When the complainant  again complained of pain, the complainant took his son to Kanpur and again his ultrasound examination  was done on 26.10.2014 at "Adarsh Diagnostic Centre". As per report there is a stone of 7.5 MM and 6.1 MM in the gallbladder. Thereafter on the advice of some relatives he was shown to a homeopathic doctor but did not get any relief which will adversely affecting his preparation for the civil services so that the local doctor advise his treatment to be done at Lucknow. The complainant took his son to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital at Lucknow on 13.07.2015 where opposite party-3 Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava examined his son and advised  for many tests. These tests were performed at "Vasudha Diagnostic Centre" where the ultrasound examination was also done. After 2-3 days the complainant on 17.07.2015 took his son to OP-3 who stated that the tests are normal and there is need of operation of the gallbladder for removal of the stones and it is on your wish as to when do you want operation. Regarding procedure of operation, the opposite party - 3 told that there are two techniques, first one is by Laser and other by way of open surgery. The laser process is costlier but safe. The other operation by open surgery will  be performed in this hospital and it will cost about ₹ 10,000/- but in laser technique the cost will be ₹ 20,000/-. He advised for laser operation for which the complainant agreed but it is told that this operation will not be done at this hospital. He advised complainant to get his son operated in some other hospital or nursing home which will cost about ₹ 40 to 45,000/-. The complainant asked that you are a government doctor and private practice is barred by the government, he replied that everything happens. Thereafter the complainant became ready to get his son operated in a private nursing home under the observation of OP-3. OP -3 told the complainant to come at 8 AM on the date of operation after deciding the date of operation and then the name of the nursing home shall be disclosed. The complainant decided the date for operation as 20.07.2015 so that his son may be cured at the earliest. On 20.07.2015, the complainant telephoned OP -3 and told him about the operation. The OP-3 told the complainant to reach Surgical Clinic of Dr Sumit Seth  , Surendra Nagar, Faizabad Road, Lucknow OP-1. There was no proper arrangement for the operation but  the complainant  trusting  the ability and capability of OP-3 got his son admitted there and completed all the formalities. At about 12.30 the doctor present administered glucose to the son of the complainant which ran till 2 PM. At about 2 PM, the OP-3 came to the nursing home and asked the complainant to pay ₹ 40,000 which was paid in cash but no receipt was given to the complainant. Thereafter the OP-3 with other Dr including a female doctor went to the operation room and started the operation. After one or one and half hour OP-3 demanded two units of blood and asked him to go to Dr Tripathi of blood bank situated at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. The complainant after receiving the requisition of two units of blood reached Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and met Dr Tripathi who managed two units of blood for ₹ 800/- and handed over to the complainant's son who immediately brought it to OP-3 and gave it to him. After 10-15 minutes the OP-3 again demanded two units of blood. The complainant again made arrangements and brought two units of blood and gave  to the OP -3. When enquired about his son's condition, the OP-3 did not give any answer but said that some more blood may be needed. When no information has been given till 5:30 PM, the complainant's son Satyam forcefully entered into the operation theatre and saw his brother on the operation table and there was about 15 inches incision in his stomach and the floor was flooded with blood as if any animal has been cut. There was oxygen pipe in his mouth. The cloth was also full of blood. The OP-3 became nervous to see the complainant's son and asked him to go out of operation theatre. The  complainants  son requested OP-3 to treat his brother and if it is not possible here then send him to some hospital or medical college. The OP-3 said that there is no need to go anywhere and turned his son out of the operation theatre but he was feeling that his brother is no more. After some time the OP-3 told the complainant that the condition of his son is deteriorating and it needs ventilator which is not available in this nursing home therefore he will have to send his son to Lohia Hospital. The complainant agreed but the doctor could not arrange any medical ambulance therefore the complainant arranged a private ambulance and took his son to the Lohia Hospital where he was directly admitted to the ventilator unit and the OP - 3 went away from the spot and after some time the complainant was told about the death of his son. Thereafter the doctor wanted to handover the dead body of his son but the complainant insisted for post-mortem of his son and on the request of the complainant the post-mortem of his son was performed on 21.07.2015. Thereafter FIR has been lodged against the opposite parties on 20.07.2015 at police station Gomti Nagar under section 304 (crime number 207/2015). The complainant complained against OP -3 in Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and also requested the investigating officer to refer it to the CMO for medical enquiry against the OP-3. An enquiry committee has been instituted under the chairmanship of Ritu Maheshwari (Administration) in which other doctors were  Dr. M.K. Gupta, Anesthetist, Dr. S.P.M. Medical Officer, Lucknow, Surgeon Dr. Sadanand as members. The enquiry committee has submitted its report stating that OP-3 knowingly and for his benefit, asked the complainant to get his sonoperated outside a private nursing home by laparoscopic method. It is also stated in the report that without any legal training certificate, OP-3 was performing the sensational operation jeopardizing the life of the patient is not correct. The enquiry committee has also made clear that there is deficiency of service on the part of OP-1, 2, 4, and 5. According to the conclusion of the enquiry committee there was no proper equipment/proper medical protocol was available with the opposite parties which shows acute deficiency and negligence on the part of the opposite parties. The complainant was forced to get his son admitted in such a nursing home lacking proper paraphernalia of operation. There was no ventilator in the said taxi home and also there was no ambulance. The complainant trusted on the OP -3 for undergoing laparoscopic operation but it is clear that he was not competent for laparoscopic operation as per the enquiry commission report. In the police investigation the OP-2 has admitted himself as the owner of Surgical Clinic, OP-1. Without any qualification the complainant's son was operated by the opposite parties resulting in the death of his son. The anaesthesia was given by  Dr. Virendra Singh, OP-5. In the operation theatre there was Dr.  Varija Seth, OP-4 and Dr. Sanjeev Bhatia, OP-6. All these doctors concerned knowing the condition of the complainant son did not refer his son to any higher medical Centre or medical college. They did not provide ambulance for taking his son to the  RML Hospital where he was put on ventilator. All responsible for the carelessness and negligence. From the enquiry report it has become clear that due to this operation there happened injury in the inferior Vena Cava of the complainant's son  which is the main artery in the body and due to excessive blood loss complainant's  son died. This injury has been caused in the very beginning and for this reason that complainant was asked for arrangement of blood again and again. All these things show negligence on the part of the opposite parties. The complainants son died on the operation theatre but the opposite parties to conceal their shortcomings, referred his son to  RML. The opposite parties illegally did not admit the complainant son at RML and pressurised him to go to a private nursing home for his son's operation where proper infrastructure was totally lacking. The complainant's son was murdered by the opposite parties. The complainant filed this complaint case for the following reliefs before this Hon'ble Commission : No doubt in this case the opposite parties advised the patient to get admitted in a nursing home where he operated the patient and thereafter could not manage the bleeding caused by the damage of inferior Vena Cava vein . Now we come to discuss a  little about genuine consent taken by a surgeon during operation . Consent is a legal requirement of medical practice and not a procedural formality. Getting a mere signature on a form is no consent. If a patient is rushed into signing consent, without giving sufficient information, the consent may be invalid, despite the signature. Often medical professionals either ignore or are ignorant of the requirements of a valid consent and its legal implications. Instances where either consent was not taken or when an invalid consent was obtained have been a subject matter of judicial scrutiny in several medical malpractice cases. This article highlights the essential principles of consent and the Indian law related to it along with some citations, so that medical practitioners are not only able to safeguard themselves against litigations and unnecessary harassment but can act rightfully. Legally, two or more persons are said to consent when they agree upon the same thing in the same sense.[1] Consent must be obtained prior to conducting any medical procedure on a patient. It may be expressed or implied by patient's demeanour. A patient who comes to a doctor for treatment implies that he is agreeable to general physical (not intimate) examination.[2] Express consent (verbal/written) is specifically stated by the patient. Express verbal consent may be obtained for relatively minor examinations or procedures, in the presence of a witness.[3] Express written consent must be obtained for all major diagnostic, anaesthesia and surgical procedures as it is the most undisputable form of consent. ESSENTIAL PRINCIPLES OF A VALID CONSENT AND THE INDIAN LAW

 

A doctor must take the consent of the patient before commencing a treatment/procedure

 

Except in emergencies, informed consent should be obtained sometime prior to the procedure so that the patient does not feel pressurised or rushed to sign. On the day of surgery, the patient may be under extreme mental stress or under influence of pre-medicant drugs which may hamper his decision-making ability. Consent remains valid for an indefinite period, provided there is no change in patient condition or proposed intervention.[4] It should be confirmed at the time of surgery.[4]

 

Consent must be taken from the patient himself

 

The doctor before performing any procedure must obtain patient's consent.[5] No one can consent on behalf of a competent adult. In Dr. Ramcharan Thiagarajan Facs versus Medical Council of India case,[6] disciplinary action was awarded to the surgeon for not taking a proper informed consent for the entire procedure of kidney and pancreas transplant surgery from the patient. In some situations, beside patient consent, it is desirable to take additional consent of spouse. In sterilisation procedures, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India guidelines, consent of spouse is not required.[7] The Medical Council of India (clause 7.16) however states that in case an operation carries the risk of sterility, the consent of both husband and wife is needed.[8] It is advisable to take consent of spouse when the treatment or procedure may adversely affect or limit sex functions, or result in death of an unborn child.[9] In case of minor, consent of person with parental responsibility should be taken.[10] In an emergency, the person in charge of the child at that time can consent in absence of parents or guardians (loco parentis).[11] In a medical emergency, life-saving treatment can be given even in absence of consent. Refusing treatment in life-threatening situations due to non-availability of consent may hold the doctor guilty, unless there is a documented refusal to treatment by the patient. In Dr. TT Thomas versus Smt. Elisa and Ors case,[12] the doctor was held guilty of negligence for not operating on a patient with life-threatening emergency condition, as there was no documented refusal to treatment. The patient should have the capacity and competence to consent

 

A person is competent to contract[13] if (i) he has attained the age of majority,[14] (ii) is of sound mind[15] and (iii) is not disqualified from contracting by any law to which he is subject. The legal age for giving a valid consent in India is 18 years.[14] A child     12 years can give a valid consent for physical/medical examination ( Indian Penal Code , section 89).[3] Prior to performing any procedure on a child   18 years, it is advisable to take consent of a person with parental responsibility so that its validity is not questioned. If patient is incompetent, then consent can be taken from a surrogate/proxy decision maker who is the next of kin (spouse/adult child/parent/sibling/lawful guardian).[11]

 

Consent should be free and voluntary

 

Consent is said to be free[16] when it is not caused by coercion,[17] undue influence,[18] fraud,[19] misrepresentation,[20] or mistake.[21,22,23]

 

Consent should be informed

 

Consent should be on the basis of adequate information concerning the nature of the treatment procedure.[5] Consent should be informed and based on intelligent understanding. The doctor must disclose information regarding patient condition, prognosis, treatment benefits, adverse effects, available alternatives, risk of refusing treatment and the approximate treatment cost. He should encourage questions and answer all queries.[2]

 

If the possibility of a risk, including the risk of death, due to performance of a procedure or its refusal is remote or only theoretical, it need not be explained.[5] Exceptions to physician's duty to disclose include[24] : (i) Patient refusal to be informed; this should be documented. (ii) If the doctor feels that providing information to a patient who is anxious or disturbed would not be processed rationally by him and is likely to psychologically harm him, the information may be withheld from him (therapeutic privilege); he should then communicate with patient's close relative, family doctor or both. The "adequate information" must be furnished by the doctor (or a member of his team) who treats the patient.[5]

 

Information imparted should enable the patient to make a balanced judgment as to whether he should submit himself to the particular treatment or not.[5]

 

Consent should be procedure specific

 

Consent given only for a diagnostic procedure, cannot be considered as consent for the therapeutic treatment.[5] Consent given for a specific treatment procedure will not be valid for conducting some other procedure.[5] In Samira Kohli versus Dr. Prabha Manchanda and Anr case,[5] the doctor was held negligent for performing an additional procedure on the patient without taking her prior consent. An additional procedure may be performed without consent only if it is necessary to save the life or preserve the health of the patient and it would be unreasonable to delay, until patient regains consciousness and takes a decision.[5]

 

A common consent for diagnostic and operative procedures may be taken where they are contemplated. [5]

 

Consent obtained during the course of surgery is not acceptable

 

In Dr. Janaki S Kumar and Anr versus Mrs. Sarafunnisa case,[25] in an allegation of performing sterilisation without consent, it was contended that consent was obtained during the course of surgery. The commission held that the patient under anaesthesia could neither understand the risk involved nor could she give a valid consent. Consent for blood transfusion

 

When blood transfusion is anticipated, a specific written consent should be taken,[24] exception being an emergency situation where blood transfusion is needed to save life and consent cannot be attempted.[26] In M. Chinnaiyan versus Sri. Gokulam Hospital and Anr case,[27] court awarded compensation as patient was transfused blood in the absence of specific consent for blood transfusion. Consent for examining or observing a patient for educational purpose

 

Prior to examining or observing patients for educational purpose, their consent must be taken.[28]

 

Blanket consent is not valid

 

Consent should be procedure specific. An all-encompassing consent to the effect 'I authorize so and so to carry out any test/procedure/surgery in the course of my treatment' is not valid.[29]

 

Fresh consent should be taken for a repeat procedure

 

A fresh written informed consent must be obtained prior to every surgical procedure that includes re-exploration procedure. In Dr. Shailesh Shah versus Aphraim Jayanand Rathod case,[30] the surgeon was found deficient in service and was liable for compensation as he had performed a re-exploration surgery without a written consent from the patient. Surgical consent is not sufficient to cover anaesthesia care

 

The surgeons are incapable to discuss the risks associated with anaesthesia. Informed consent for anaesthesia must be taken by the anaesthesia provider as only he can impart anaesthesia related necessary information and explain the risks involved. It may be documented by the anaesthesiologist on the surgical consent form by a handwritten note, or on a separate anaesthesia consent form.[31]

 

Patient has the right to refuse treatment

 

Competent patients have the legal and moral right to refuse treatment, even in life-threatening emergency situations.[31] In such cases informed refusal must be obtained and documented, over the patient's witnessed signature.[32] It may be advisable that two doctors document the reason for non-performance of life-saving surgery or treatment as express refusal by the patient or the authorised representative and inform the hospital administrator about the same. To detain an adult patient against his will in a hospital is unlawful.[9] If a patient demands discharge from hospital against medical advice, this should be recorded, and his signature obtained.[9]

 

Unilaterally executed consents are void

 

Consent signed only by the patient and not by the doctor is not valid.[33]

 

Witnessed consents are legally more dependable

 

The role of a witness is even more important in instances when the patient is illiterate, and one needs to take his/her thumb impression.[34]

 

Consent should be properly documented

 

Video-recording of the informed consent process may also be done but with a prior consent for the same. This should be documented. It is commonly done for organ transplant procedures. If consent form is not signed by the patient or is amended without his signed authorisation, it can be claimed that the procedure was not consented to.[10]

 

Patient is free to withdraw his consent anytime

 

When consent is withdrawn during the performance of a procedure, the procedure should be stopped. The doctor may address to patient's concerns and may continue the treatment only if the patient agrees. If stopping a procedure at that point puts patient's life in danger, the doctor may continue with the procedure till such a risk no longer exists.[10]

 

 

 

Consent for illegal procedures is invalid

 

There can be no valid consent for operations or procedures which are illegal.[24] Consent for an illegal act such as criminal abortion is invalid.[9]

 

Consent is no defence in cases of professional negligence.[9]

 

 

 

 

HOW TO OBTAIN A VALID CONSENT AND CONSENT FORMAT

 

Always maintain good communication with your patient and provide adequate information to enable him make a rational decision.[35] It is preferable to take consent in patient's vernacular language. It may be better to make him write down his consent in the presence of a witness.[34] It is desirable to use short and simple sentences and non-medical terminology that is written/typed legibly.[36] Patient information sheets (PIS) depicting procedure related information, including pre-operative and post-operative pre-cautions in patient's understandable local language with pictorial representation may facilitate the informed consent process. These may help in providing consistently accurate information to the patients.[35] PIS should be handed over to the patients after explaining the contents. Even videos may be used as an aid in increasing patient understanding.[37]

 

Though there is no standard consent format, it may include the following [e.g., Figure 1]:[38]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 1

 

Anaesthesia informed consent form

 
	 Date and time
	 Patient related: Name, age and signature of the patient/proxy decision maker
	 Doctor related: Name, registration number and signature of the doctor
	 Witness: Name and signature of witness
	 Disease-related: Diagnosis along with co-morbidities if any
	 Surgical procedure related: Type of surgery (elective/emergency), nature of surgery with antecedent risks and benefits, alternative treatment available, adverse consequences of refusing treatment
	 Anaesthesia related: Type of anaesthesia (general and/or regional, local anaesthesia, sedation) including risks
	 Blood transfusion: Requirement and related risks
	 Special risks: Need for post-operative ventilation, intensive care, etc
	 Document the fact that patient and relatives were allowed to ask questions, and their queries were answered to their satisfaction. CONSENT IN RELATION TO PUBLICATION

 

A registered medical practitioner is not permitted to publish photographs or case reports of his/her patients without their consent, in any medical or another journal in a manner by which their identity could be revealed. However, in case the identity is not disclosed, consent is not needed (clause 7.17).[8]

 

 

CONSENT IN RELATION TO MEDICAL RESEARCH

 

Consent taken from the patient for the drug trial or research should be as per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines[39]; otherwise it shall be construed as misconduct (clause 7.22).[8]

 

 

COMMON FALLACIES IN THE CONSENT PROCESS

 

The anaesthesiologist must ensure that consent is given maximum importance, and all the legal formalities are followed before agreeing to provide the services. Following are some frequent mistakes and omissions that can cost him/her dearly in the event of a mishap: Another consent letter has been scanned hereinbelow. This is a handwritten consent letter taken by the opposite party from the patient. If there is already a consent letter what was the need of this consent letter? In the following consent letter there are actually two consent, first for laparoscopic cholecystectomy, and second for open surgery but as medical protocol two consent cannot be taken into same form. This is not in accordance the prescribed pro forma or guidelines given by the IMA. So this consent form is also not valid according to medical protocol and according to the guidelines of IMA. What facilities should be given in a operation theatre? An operating theater (also known as an operating room (OR), operating suite, or operation suite) is a facility within a hospital where surgical operations are carried out in an aseptic environment. Historically, the term "operating theater" referred to a non-sterile, tiered theater or amphitheater in which students and other spectators could watch surgeons perform surgery. Contemporary operating rooms are usually devoid of a theater setting, making the term "operating theater" a misnomer in those cases. Operating rooms

 

Operating rooms are spacious, in a cleanroom, and well-lit, typically with overhead surgical lights, and may have viewing screens and monitors. Operating rooms are generally windowless, though windows are becoming more prevalent in newly built theaters to provide clinical teams with natural light, and feature controlled temperature and humidity. Special air handlers filter the air and maintain a slightly elevated pressure. Electricity support has backup systems in case of a black-out. Rooms are supplied with wall suction, oxygen, and possibly other anesthetic gases. Key equipment consists of the operating table and the anesthesia cart. In addition, there are tables to set up instruments. There is storage space for common surgical supplies. There are containers for disposables. Outside the operating room, or sometimes integrated within, is a dedicated scrubbing area that is used by surgeons, anesthetists, ODPs (operating department practitioners), and nurses prior to surgery. An operating room will have a map to enable the terminal cleaner to realign the operating table and equipment to the desired layout during cleaning. Operating rooms are typically supported by an anaesthetic room, prep room, scrub and a dirty utility room.[1]

 

Several operating rooms are part of the operating suite that forms a distinct section within a health-care facility. Besides the operating rooms and their wash rooms, it contains rooms for personnel to change, wash, and rest, preparation and recovery rooms, storage and cleaning facilities, offices, dedicated corridors, and possibly other supportive units. In larger facilities, the operating suite is climate- and air-controlled, and separated from other departments so that only authorized personnel have access. Temperature and surgical site infections (SSI). The current operating room design temperature is between 65 and 75 °F (18 and 24 °C).[2][3] Operating rooms are typically kept below 73.4 °F (23 °C) & room temperature is the most critical factor in influencing heat loss.[4] Surgeons wear multiple layers (surgical gowns, lead aprons) and may perspire into an incision if not kept cool; excessive heat may also decrease concentration and increase the frequency of errors.[4] Higher temperatures increased subjective physical demand and frustration of the surgical staff.[2] One option is to heat the patient to prevent surgical site infections (SSI) and keep the surgical team cool. There is a 3 fold increase in infection for every 1.9 degree Celsius body temperature decrease because of weakened immune response at lower body temperatures.[5] Radiation is the major cause of heat loss in patients, and convection (through air) is the second cause of heat loss.[6] In the first hour, it is common for a healthy patient's temperature to decrease 0.5-1.5 °C as anesthesia causes rapid decrease in core temperature.[6] One study found that the most efficient method of maintaining normothermia included using warm wraps and a heating blanket (commercially known as a Bair Hugger).[citation needed] Additionally, pre-warming for thirty minutes may prevent hypothermia.[4]

 

Operating room equipment[edit]

 

 Operating room lights are meant so suppress any shadow so that the surgeos has a deep light to use while doing procedures. The surgical light in the picture is the most revolutionary on the market. Thanks to double reflection technology, an improved version of indirect light, the lamp is able to give a light without any glare: the main cause of failure or error during procedures. Glare is the feeling of being blinded given by looking at the light source (the head lamp) Hybrid operating room for cardiovascular surgery at Gemelli Hospital in Rome

 
	 The operating table in the center of the room can be raised, lowered, and tilted in any direction.[7]
	 The operating room lights are over the table to provide bright light, without shadows, during surgery.[7]
	 The anesthesia machine is at the head of the operating table. This machine has tubes that connect to the patient to assist them in breathing during surgery, and built-in monitors that help control the mixture of gases in the breathing circuit.[7]
	 The anesthesia cart is next to the anesthesia machine. It contains the medications, equipment, and other supplies that the anesthesiologist may need.[7]
	 Sterile instruments to be used during surgery are arranged on a stainless steel table.[7]
	 An electronic monitor (which records the heart rate and respiratory rate by adhesive patches that are placed on the patient's chest).[7]
	 The pulse oximeter machine attaches to the patient's finger with an elastic band aid. It measures the amount of oxygen contained in the blood.[7]
	 Automated blood pressure measuring machine that automatically inflates the blood pressure cuff on a patient's arm.[7]
	 An electrocautery machine uses high frequency electrical signals to cauterize or seal off blood vessels and may also be used to cut through tissue with a minimal amount of bleeding.[7]
	 If surgery requires, a heart-lung machine or other specialized equipment may be brought into the room.[7]
	 Supplementary portable air decontaminating equipment is sometimes placed in the OR.[8] [9]
	 Advances in technology now support hybrid operating rooms, which integrate diagnostic imaging systems such as MRI and cardiac catheterization into the operating room to assist surgeons in specialized neurological and cardiac procedures.[7]

 

 

Surgeon and assistants' equipment

 

People in the operating room wear PPE (personal protective equipment) to help prevent bacteria from infecting the surgical incision. This PPE includes the following: (2) They shall come into force on September 1, 1983. 2. Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise require: 3. Restriction on private practice. - Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any rules or orders, contract or any other instrument and subject to the provisions of Rule 4, a Government doctor shall not be entitled to private practice. 4. Payment in lieu of private practice. - (1) In lieu of private practice a Government doctor shall be paid such amount, by way of non-practising pay or allowance or both, as the Government may specify from time to time: 5. Relaxation from conditions of these rules. - Where the State Government is satisfied that the operation of the rule restricting private practice causes undue hardship in any particular case or cases, it may, notwithstanding anything contained in the rules, by general or special order, dispense with or relax the requirement of that rule to such extent and subject to such conditions as it may consider necessary for dealing with the case in a just and equitable manner or in public interest. 6. Power to remove difficulties etc. - The Government may, by order published in the Gazette, make provision for any matter not covered by these rules to regulate the restriction on private practice of Government doctors and to ensure the effective implementation of, or for removing any difficulty in giving effect to these rules. 7. Misconduct. - A Government doctor committing breach of these rules shall be guilty of misconduct under Rule 3 of the Government Servant's Conduct Rules, 1956. So in this case the operating surgeon was doing his job in RML Hospital. The opposite parties are well-known that the opposite party doctor Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava is a government Dr and that there is a bar on the practice of a government Dr from doing private practice. In spite of all these they hired the services of Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava which was against the medical ethics and against the provisions of the above-mentioned Act. Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava was also well aware of the said Act and in spite of it he reached the private nursing home for doing a operation. This shows that  all the opposite parties knew this fact and in spite of it they contributed to the said operation. Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava has voluntarily given his services to the nursing home so primarily he is liable to do so under the government rules. All other doctors have contributed in the said operation knowing this fact therefore all were liable or guilty of conspiracy. So it is clear that Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava operated the patient in the violation of the said Act and also against the principles of IMA. An operation theatre should be bacteria and virus free and during operation. In addition to it , there must be an anaesthetist, Asst anaesthetist, physician, cardiologist, and other medical and paramedical staff having well-trained nurses. In this case we do not find such preparation or arrangements. During argument it is told that there was a ventilator and there was ambulance in the hospital. If there was ventilator why did the patient not put on ventilator immediately? Why did the patient refer to higher  centre? During argument the counsel of Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava first denied the presence of the Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava in the nursing home but when he was shown the statement of other doctors who admitted the presence of Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava, he accepted that Dr Arun Kumar Srivastava performed the operation. We have also seen the contribution of other doctors. Anaesthetist which was called to give anaesthesia to the patient, has given anaesthesia to the patient but he could not manage to keep vital parts in normal condition . He had knowledge that this hospital is not equipped with all the basic equipments of operation and there was lack of operating team in spite of that he gave anaesthesia to the patient only for getting some thousand of rupees. When you know that the operating surgeon is a government Dr, why did you administer anaesthesia to the patient? When you know that this hospital has no basic facilities for the operation, has no proper ventilator and ambulances, why did you contribute in the operation by giving anaesthesia to the patient. All this the show the deficiency of service on the part of the opposite party. Now we come to see the post-operative care which is very important during a surgical operation. Postoperative patients must be monitored and assessed closely for any deterioration in condition and the relevant postoperative care plan or pathway must be implemented. The NCEPOD (2011) report found that patients whose condition was deteriorating were not always identified and referred for a higher level of care. Patients should be made ascomfortable as possible before postoperative checks are performed. Postoperative patients are at risk of clinical deterioration, and it is vital that this is minimised. Knowledge and understanding of the key areas of risk and local policies will help reduce potential problems (National Patient Safety Agency, 2007; National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, 2007). Track and trigger or early warning systems are widely used in the UK to identify deteriorating patients. These have been adapted by trusts for adults and children and are based on the patient's pulse and respiratory rate, systolic blood pressure, temperature and level of consciousness. Additional monitoring may include pain assessment, capillary refill time, percentage of oxygen administered, oxygen saturation, central venous pressure, infusion rates and hourly urine output. The National Early Warning Score (NEWS) was developed by a working party to provide a national standard for assessing, monitoring and tracking acutely and critically ill patients (not for use with children under 16 years or in pregnancy); the intention was that trusts would use it to replace their locally adapted early warning systems (Royal College of Physicians, 2012). Like other early warning systems, NEWS has six physiological parameters: