1. The Supreme Court in Sidhartha Vashisth alias Manu Sharma vs.

State (NCT of Delhi ) reported as (2010) 6 SCC 1 commenting on the

necessity of insisting upon the fairness of investigation observed at

paragraph 197 of the report:- 2. In Nirmal Singh Kahlon vs. State of Punjab & Others reported as

(2009) 1 SCC 441 the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that "fairness of the

investigation is meant not only for the accused but even for the victim." In

paragraph 28 of the report the Supreme Court expounded:- 3. I would be failing in my duty if I did not refer to the observations

made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh and

Another vs. State of Gujarat and Others reported as (2004) 4 SCC 158

where the Supreme Court considered how justice itself can become a victim

if the investigation is not fair. The Court in paragraph 18 of the report

expressed thus:- 4. The present is a case where after having heard counsel for the parties

over two days and examining all the material placed on record including the

statements of the witnesses to the dastardly crime as encapsulated in the

video clipping furnished on behalf of the Delhi Police, in my view, the

impression I gather is that the investigation thus far, three months after the

alleged commission of the offence, is that the Special Investigating Team

(SIT) has concentrated on exonerating the police officers concerned rather

than discovering the truth. 5. It would be hyperbole to state that the state of affairs that has emerged

from having heard the present case shocks the judicial conscience of this

Court. 6. The present petition filed on behalf of Rabia @ Mamta and Sant Ram,

who are the widow and the father-in-law of the deceased victim Shahnawaz

Chaudhari, prays as follows:- 7. At the first listing of the present petition on 16.10.2015, on a

submission made on behalf of Ms. Prabhsahay Kaur, learned counsel W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 4 of 65 appearing on behalf of Delhi Commission for Women, that Rabia @ Mamta

had been illegally detained by the police overnight in the concerned police

station on two occasions and that the police officers from the concerned

police station were visiting the residence of the petitioner demanding to

know whether any complaint has been made against any of their colleague,

this Court directed Mr. Rajinder Singh Sagar, Additional Deputy

Commissioner of Police-I, North East District, who was present in Court, to

personally supervise the safety, security and well-being of the petitioners and

afford protection to them. 8. Notice was issued to the official respondents, returnable on

20.10.2015. 9. It is an admitted position that the SIT appointed by the Delhi Police

came into existence thereafter on 17.10.2015. 10. When the matter came up for hearing on the returnable date i.e.

20.10.2015, it was observed that despite an opportunity, no status report had

been filed on behalf of the Delhi Police. It is in this backdrop that this Court

passed the following order:- - Rabindranath Tagore 1. There can be no higher or loftier philosophy, belief or
 faith than humanism. 2. President Pranab Mukherjee is stated to have
 expressed "apprehension whether tolerance and acceptance of
 dissent are on the wane?" The President of this country is
 stated to have recalled the teachings of Ramkrishna
 Paramhansa 'Jato Mat Tato Path' "as there are a number of
 beliefs, there are a number of ways". 3. These are questions which have to be answered by the
 collective conscience of this nation. 4. The present petition prays as follows:- 5. The present petition recounts a horrific tale of
 inhuman, reprehensible and condemnable conduct on behalf
 of the police entrusted with the task of protecting and
 upholding the rights of the citizens of Delhi. 6. On the fateful day at about 04.30 p.m. Shahnawaz
 Chaudhari and his wife Rabia @ Mamta (the petitioner No.1)
 accompanied by their 3½ month baby were on their way to
 Karuna Hospital at Dilshad Garden, Delhi. 7. On the way they noticed a couple quarrelling with each
 other and police officers present trying to intervene. 8. According to Rabia @ Mamta, since the late
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari was acquainted with the lady
 concerned, he stopped and made enquiries as to what the
 trouble was. The policemen are alleged to have asked him to
 stay out of it. Shahnawaz Chaudhari, however, insisted that
 since it was an ordinary matrimonial disagreement between
 the quarrelling couple, it would be best to let them sort it out
 amongst themselves. The policemen are alleged to have
 taken umbrage at Shahnawaz Chaudhari's persistent and
 purportedly uncalled for intervention as they perceived his
 actions to be an invasion by a busy body interloper into their
 domain and started roughing up Shahnawaz Chaudhari.
 When Shahnawaz Chaudhari objected to the treatment meted
 out to him, the policemen are stated to have not only rebuked
 and rebuffed them but also snatched the keys to the
 motorcycle on which the family was travelling. At this
 juncture, it is alleged that another vehicle belonging to the
 police drove up and all the policemen who had assembled
 there ganged up and repeatedly kicked, punched and beat up
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari. Despite the entreaties in this regard
 by Rabia @ Mamta, the police persisted with their assault on
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari and even assaulted him with dandas.
 The 3½ month old child was separated from Shahnawaz
 Chaudhari and Rabia @ Mamta and the latter were bundled
 into a police vehicle. The torture and brutality intensified in
 the police vehicle and three policemen climbed on to the
 chest of Shahnawaz Chaudhari and sat on him while the
 fourth continued giving persistent blows on his torso. The W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 7 of 65 entreaties of Shahnawaz Chaudhari and Rabia @ Mamta to
 the policemen to stop and desist from what they were doing,
 fell on deaf ears. Upon reaching Nand Nagri Police Station,
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari was taken inside. Rabia @ Mamta
 was subsequently informed that Shahnawaz Chaudhari was
 being taken to hospital since his health had deteriorated.
 Rabia @ Mamta observed that Shahnawaz Chaudhari was
 unconscious at that time. 9. Rabia @ Mamta was made to wait at the Police Station
 till 02.00 a.m. without being informed of the status of the
 health and well-being of Shahnawaz Chaudhari. Rabia @
 Mamta was finally asked by the concerned Metropolitan
 Magistrate who arrived to record her statement. Rabia @
 Mamta asserts that her statement was coerced by exertion of
 pressure by the policemen present and on the threat that the
 well-being of Shahnawaz Chaudhari could be jeopardized if
 she were to implicate them in any manner. Rabia @ Mamta
 was finally dropped of at her parents' house at 03.00 a.m. 10. Rabia @ Mamta visited GTB Hospital in search of
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari but to no avail. In desperation she
 went back to the Nand Nagri Police Station and beseeched the
 policemen to tell her where Shahnawaz Chaudhari was. She
 is stated to have spent the night outside the Nand Nagri Police
 Station waiting and pleading with the policemen to tell her of
 Shahnawaz's whereabouts. 11. At 07.00 a.m. the same morning Rabia @ Mamta went
 back to her parents' house and came back to Nand Nagri
 Police Station once again accompanied by her father
 (petitioner No.2). It was at this stage that they were informed
 that Shahnawaz Chaudhari has been declared dead on arrival
 by the doctor at the GTB Hospital on the previous day. 12. Rabia @ Mamta states that onlookers and passers-by
 have recorded videos of the incident on their mobile
 telephones which are a part of the report of the concerned
 SDM. It is further urged on her behalf that the entire area
 which falls within the Nand Nagri Police Station is covered
 by CCTV Cameras and a perusal thereof would reveal the
 truth about what transpired on that fateful day. 13. What happened thereafter is the natural response of an
 angry and anguished public to this dastardly act. The people
 of the area took to the streets and the roads in Nand Nagri W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 8 of 65 area were blocked by citizens. The police force which arrived
 in strength at the scene of the riots had to resort to a lathi-
 charge to disperse the agitated masses. 14. Thus, the life of a young man with a young wife and
 an infant child was extinguished. 15. We do not know whether Shahnawaz Chaudhari was a
 good samaritan or a busy body interloper. We do know,
 however, that he tried to intervene on behalf of the quarrelling
 couple in the presence of police officers and paid a heavy
 price for it. 16. The tragic incident brings to mind a couplet from
 Shakeel Badayuni immortalized by the voice of Begum
 Akhtar:- I must solemnly add:- 17. Custodial deaths are anathema in a civilized society
 and militate against all the ideals and protections enshrined
 and guaranteed by the Constitution of India. Custodial deaths
 are a violation of basic human rights and are a convoluted
 manifestation of the darker side of the guardians of civil
 liberties. The only thought that occupies a benumbed mind is
 a prayer that sanity be restored. A fervent prayer springs
 forth from the heart of every humanist:- 18. However, we shall overcome. - Sifar 19. The above incident begs a question which can best be
 expressed in these words:- - Sahir Ludhianvi W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 10 of 65 20. Deaths in police custody are a recurring phenomena
 and have assumed alarming proportions. An original research
 paper conducted an analysis on custodial deaths in New Delhi
 over a period of 13 years from 1999 to 2011. The
 observations of this study were based on a total of 15 cases
 over the said period. The study reveals that the victims did
 not belong to any one community. The study further goes on
 to state that as per the 2011 NHRC report there were 14,231
 custody related deaths in India during the period of 2001 to
 2010. It was concluded that a majority of these deaths were a
 direct consequence of torture in custody. The study went on
 to lament that despite these high figures only a few studies
 have been done on this subject in India. 21. It is observed that custodial violence is a dark reality in
 our democratic country governed by "the rule of law". In a
 democratic society, there is no gainsaying that the police have
 the predominant role of protecting the rights of citizens as
 enshrined in the Constitution. But it is equally well known
 that they systematically violate their powers and employ
 torture as a part of their investigation process. The poor, the
 deprived classes, women and political activists are the worst
 victims of police highhandedness. The police constitute a
 major part in the administration of criminal justice. One of the
 reasons why torture and custodial deaths are endemic in India
 on a large scale is that the police feel that they are immune
 from the rigours of the law and are confident that they will
 not be held accountable, even if the victims die in custody
 and even if the truth is revealed. 22. Custodial deaths are perhaps one of the worst crimes in
 a civilized society governed by "the rule of law". The
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in D.K. Basu v. State of
 W.B. reported as (1997) 1 SCC 416, after enumerating the
 rights of an accused/detenue person, on the aspect of dealing
 with custodial deaths held that the rights inherent in Articles
 21 and 22(1) of the Constitution require to be zealously and
 scrupulously protected. Any form of torture or cruel, inhuman
 or degrading treatment would fall within the inhibition of Article 21 of the Constitution, whether it occurs during
 investigation, interrogation or otherwise. If the functionaries
 of the Government become law-breakers, it is bound to breed
 contempt for law. Torture in custody flouts the basic rights of W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 11 of 65 the citizens and is an affront to human dignity. It imposes a
 serious threat to an orderly civilised society. It is also a naked
 violation of human dignity and degradation which destroys, to
 a very large extent, the individual personality. Custodial
 violence, including torture and death in the lock-ups, strikes a
 blow at the rule of law, which demands that the powers of the
 executive should not only be derived from law but also that
 the same should be limited by law. 23. The quality of a nation's civilization can be largely
 measured by the methods it uses in enforcing criminal law.
 Custodial violence requires to be tackled from two ends, that
 is, by taking measures that are remedial and preventive.
 Efforts should be made to remove the very causes, which lead
 to custodial violence, so as to prevent such occurrences. 24. Angus Deaton, the winner of this year's Nobel in
 economics, has contributed immensely to the understanding
 of poverty, prices, nutrition and well-being in India. His
 work has been guided by the belief that economic progress
 must lead to better lives for everyone. 25. The services and protection that all citizens enjoy in
 other civilized society are found wanting in the largest
 democracy in the world. 26. Is it then enough for us to echo what is stated in the
 Bible according to Luke :- 27. I beg to differ. - Narsinh Mehta 28. A Division Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court had
 occasion to consider the issue of protection of human rights
 which have been the subject of a worldwide crusade. India is
 a signatory to the International Convention of Civil and
 Political Rights, 1966. In the said decision , Justice T.S.
 Thakur writing for the Bench observed that "custodial torture
 is in fact violation of human dignity and degradation that
 destroys self-esteem of the victim and does not even spare his
 personality. Custodial torture, is a calculated assault on W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 12 of 65 human dignity and whenever human dignity is wounded,
 civilisation takes a step backwards. The Court relied upon
 the Report of the Royal Commission on Criminal Procedure
 and the Third Report of the National Police Commission in
 India to hold that despite recommendations for banishing
 torture from the investigative system, growing incidence of
 torture and deaths in police custody come back to haunt." 29. On behalf of the police an affidavit has been filed
 authored by Mr. Rajendra Singh Sagar, Additional
 DCP/North East, Delhi. The affidavit begins with the
 assertion "that present short reply affidavit is being filed
 without adverting to the contents of Writ Petition is general
 with leave and liberty of this Hon'ble Court to file a detailed
 seriatim reply if so directed by this Hon'ble Court or so
 required in the facts of the case subsequently. The answering
 respondents No.2 and 3 are confident that based upon the
 submissions hereinafter, this Hon'ble Court, would be
 apprised with the correct facts of the issue at hand." 30. It is stated on behalf of the police that Shahnawaz
 Chaudhari, the deceased, was in a drunken condition and
 started quarrelling with the police officials. It is admitted that
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari was taken in the ERV to the Police
 Station and on the way he showed signs of physical
 discomfort and was immediately rushed to GTB Hospital. It
 is stated that the patient was declared as brought dead by the
 doctors at GTB Hospital. It goes on to assert that a judicial
 enquiry under section 176(1A) of Cr.P.C. was conducted and
 the concerned Magistrate after inspecting the dead body of
 the deceased Shahnawaz Chaudhari in the presence of
 Inspector Sanjeev Kumar recorded his finding. The said
 judicial enquiry recorded the statements of witnesses and
 concluded as under:- 31. A perusal of the report dated 06.10.2015 reveals that
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari died due to asphyxia caused by
 compression of the neck. The internal injuries on the neck of
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari prima facie demonstrate that force was
 applied by a broad object on his neck owing to which he was
 asphyxiated to death. It thus concluded that Shahnawaz
 Chaudhari's death was a case of homicide. 32. It is stated on behalf of the police that in pursuance to
 the above said report dated 06.10.2015, an FIR under sections
 302 / 34 IPC has been registered against "unknown persons".
 It is also stated that a Special Investigating Team (SIT)
 comprising of ACP, Eastern Range, Inspector Rakesh Dixit
 and Sub-Inspectors Manish/Ved Prakash has been constituted
 on 17.10.2015. In this behalf it is relevant to point out that
 the present petition was instituted on 13.10.2015. It is also
 pertinent to point out that although the said SIT was
 constituted on 17.10.2015, no status report with regard to the
 investigations conducted by them has been placed before this
 Court. It is also noticed that the inquest conducted by the
 concerned Sub Divisional Magistrate concluded as far back as
 on 15.09.2015 that Shahnawaz Chaudhari's death was a case
 of custodial death. I hasten to add that Mr. Phoolka, learned
 Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of DCW states that they
 support the case of the petitioner. 33. This Court had by way of order dated 16.10.2015,
 directed Mr. Rajendra Singh Sagar, Additional DCP/North
 East, Delhi to personally supervise the safety, security and
 well-being of the petitioners and afford adequate protection to
 them. Today it has been urged on behalf of Ms. Shama
 Khatoon and Mr. Danish Chaudhary, the sister and brother of
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari, that the police has been approaching
 and intimidating witnesses to the gory incident that resulted in W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 14 of 65 the unfortunate demise of Shahnawaz Chaudhari and that the
 CCTV Cameras of the area which are a part of the evidence
 in the subject FIR have been removed by the official
 respondents. 34. The police authorities must be strictly held to the
 standards by which they profess their conduct to be judged. 35. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances and in
 order to instil confidence in the public as well as in the public
 interest the following directions are being issued for an
 effective and independent investigation into the subject FIR:- 36. In the event, it is determined during the ensuing
 investigation that police officers were complicit in the
 commission of the offences alleged, the Disciplinary W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 15 of 65 Authority shall initiate appropriate disciplinary action against
 the said delinquent officers in accordance with law. 37. In this behalf, it is directed that to restore the
 confidence of the general public in the force, the officers
 found to be delinquent and complicit in Shahnawaz
 Chaudhari's death be suspended and/or transferred during the
 pendency of the enquiry/investigation. This direction is just
 necessary, expedient and warranted in the light of the
 allegations made on behalf of Ms. Shama Khatoon and Mr.
 Danish Chaudhari, the sister and brother of the victim
 Shahnawaz Chaudhari, as afore stated. 38. Renotify for further consideration on 17.11.2015. 39. At this juncture, Mr. Rajendra Singh Sagar, Additional
 DCP/North East, Delhi states that a status report on behalf of
 the SIT shall be supported by an affidavit of the DCP
 (Crime). 40. Directed accordingly. 41. Before parting, it would serve civilized society well to
 recall the words of Mahatma Gandhi:- 42. A copy of this order be given dasti under the signature
 of Court Master to counsel for the parties." 11. On that day, this Court directed the petition to be listed for further

consideration on 17.11.2015. 12. On 17.11.2015, almost a month after the subject petition had been

instituted, an affidavit was filed on behalf of the Delhi Police. 13. This Court was constrained to observe as follows:- 14. The letter and spirit this Court alluded to in the said order dated

17.11.2015 referred to the following portion of the order dated 20.10.2015:- 36. In the event, it is determined during the ensuing
 investigation that police officers were complicit in the
 commission of the offences alleged, the Disciplinary
 Authority shall initiate appropriate disciplinary action
 against the said delinquent officers in accordance with
 law. 37. In this behalf, it is directed that to restore the confidence
 of the general public in the force, the officers found to be
 delinquent and complicit in Shahnawaz Chaudhari's death
 be suspended and/or transferred during the pendency of
 the enquiry/investigation. This direction is just necessary,
 expedient and warranted in the light of the allegations
 made on behalf of Ms. Shama Khatoon and Mr. Danish
 Chaudhari, the sister and brother of the victim Shahnawaz
 Chaudhari, as afore stated." 15. When the matter came up for hearing yesterday, Mr. Kirti Uppal,

learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of Delhi Police handed over in a

sealed cover a status report qua the investigation conducted by the SIT into

the unnatural death of Shahnawaz Chaudhari. A video clip was also handed

over to the Court by Mr. Shailendra Babbar, learned Special Public

Prosecutor with a request that the same may be viewed by the Court. 16. Mr. Rahul Mehra, learned Standing Counsel (Criminal) has objected

all along to the appointment of the special counsel to represent the Delhi

Police on the ground that the latter have no authority to represent the Delhi

Police owing to a bar contained in Section 24 , sub- Section 8 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Code'). The

objections made on behalf of the nominated counsel in this behalf have been

noted by this Court on more than one occasion. The acrimony which has

erupted between two sets of counsel representing the Delhi Police,

authorizedly or unauthorizedly, has resulted in ugly spats before this Court

and prima facie seems to be a spillover of the deep distrust between the

nominated counsel appointed by the Government of National Capital

Territory of Delhi and the Special Counsel appointed by the Hon'ble

Lieutenant Governor of Delhi. 17. The above deadlock has led to this Court having voiced this following

refrain on numerous occasions: 18. In other words, the State seems to have occupied itself with

unimportant matters and neglected important ones, totally ignoring the

gravity of the situation. 19. Before I proceed to consider and discuss the status report filed on

behalf of the Delhi Police yesterday, I would be remiss if I did not mention

the dramatic development that transpired in Court at the very moment when

Mr. Kirti Uppal, learned Senior Counsel was in the midst of his submissions

before this Court. One Mr. Zahid Ahmed, who was present in Court and

repeatedly trying to invite my attention to himself, was finally permitted to

address the Court. 20. Mr. Zahid Ahmed, claims to be an eye witness to the incident leading

up to the unfortunate demise of Shahnawaz Chaudhari, which occurred on

07.09.2015 at 06.00 p.m., when he was present at the Gagan Cinema T- Point, Nand Nagri, Delhi. Mr. Zahid Ahmed alleged-and with justification

since what he stated was admitted to by the police officer, who heads the SIT

and who was present in Court, on a query in this behalf-that despite having

called the concerned ACP heading the SIT five times and offering to record

his testimony in relation to the incident, the latter for reasons best known to

him, did not do so. 21. This Court was constrained to direct the Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate, Karkardooma Courts, Delhi, within whose jurisdiction the W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 20 of 65 subject FIR has been registered, to record Mr. Zahid Ahmed's statement

under Section 164 of the Code, before the said Magistrate. 22. I must pause at this stage to refer to the respective stands of the

various parties before this Court canvassed over the past two days. 23. Mr. Colin Gonsalves, learned Senior Counsel, instructed by Mr. Divya

Jyoti Jaipuriar, appearing on behalf of the petitioners has strenuously urged

that the investigation into the murder of Shahnawaz Chaudhari be referred to

the Central Bureau of Investigation without further ado. 24. This submission made on behalf of the petitioner is echoed by Ms.

Prabhsahay Kaur, learned counsel appearing on behalf of Delhi Commission

for Women as well as Mr. Rahul Mehra, learned Standing Counsel

(Criminal) appearing on behalf of Government of NCT of Delhi. The

opposition, if any, to the said submission has emanated from the Special

Counsel representing the Delhi Police. 25. At this juncture it would be relevant to refer to the submissions made

by Mr. Kirti Uppal, learned Senior Counsel, who is instructed by Mr.

Shailendra Babbar, learned Special Public Prosecutor, who has been W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 21 of 65 instructed to represent the Delhi Police by the Hon'ble Lieutenant Governor

of Delhi. 26. Mr. Uppal, learned Senior Counsel has canvassed that the SIT must be

permitted to firstly obtain a second opinion on the basis of the post-mortem

report of Shahnawaz Chaudhari in order to establish which amongst the 23

injuries suffered by the latter caused his death and by what "mode". Mr.

Uppal, learned Senior Counsel would then urge that the CFSL ought to

furnish a report recreating the scene of the crime including the possible

injuries suffered by Shahnawaz Chaudhari whilst he was in the ERV (a

vehicle which the police used to transport him from the site to the concerned

police station and onward to the hospital where he was pronounced 'brought

dead'). According to Mr. Uppal, learned Senior Counsel, the CFSL report in

this behalf would establish the cause of death. Lastly, it was urged by Mr.

Kirti Uppal, learned Senior Counsel that the FSL report needs to be obtained

from the latter on the viscera which has already been dispatched to the them. Mr. Uppal, learned Senior Counsel submitted that the intervention of this

Court was essential and a direction be issued to the All India Institute of

Medical Sciences, Delhi to expedite the rendering of a second opinion, based

on the videography conducted at the time post-mortem was carried out on W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 22 of 65 the body of Shahnawaz Chaudhari. Mr. Uppal, learned Senior Counsel

further submitted that a direction would be needed to the CFSL to

expeditiously furnish a report regarding the scene of crime and opining

which of the injuries caused to Shahnawaz Chaudhari during his

transportation in the ERV by the police, caused his death. 27. Needless to say that the objective sought to be achieved by requiring

the authorities above stated to carry out the said tasks would assist the

prosecution in arriving at the truth behind the unnatural death of Shahnawaz

Chaudhari. However, it would have been better for the SIT to have sought

exhumation on Shahnawaz Chaudhari's body and seek medical opinion

thereon, rather than to seek an opinion on the videography conducted at the

time post-mortem was conducted on Shahnawaz Chaudhari. 28. The submissions made on behalf of the SIT and the opposition thereto

shall be referred to later in this order. 29. Before adverting to the facts of the case and the respective

submissions made on behalf of the parties, it would be necessary to consider

the status report handed over in Court yesterday on behalf of the Delhi

Police. 30. The status report begins with an assertion that the directions of this

Court by way of order dated 20.11.2015 have been complied with, with

utmost urgency and sincerity. The Disciplinary Authority has initiated

action in accordance with law against the delinquent police officers found

complicit in the commission of alleged offences. It is further stated that

pending departmental enquiries against the said police personnel they are

being placed under suspension. It is contended that since neither the

concerned Metropolitan Magistrate nor the Sub-Divisional Magistrate,

Seemapuri directed the concerned authority to preserve the CCTV footage

from the cameras installed at GTB Hospital on record, the footage now

recovered by the SIT, does not relate to the material time when the incident

occurred. It is also stated that one Mr. Yogender Solanki, who had provided

the video clip which is in their custody and which has been viewed by this

Court yesterday i.e. 02.12.2015, stated that he had received the same on

WhatsApp and despite efforts made to trace the actual author of the said

video clip, no headway has been made in this regard. The status report places

great reliance on the testimony of an individual, who is attired in civil

clothes and is visible in the said video clip. The long and the short of the

statement of the said civilian, who has been identified as Vinay Kumar by W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 24 of 65 the SIT, is that according to him none of the police personnel involved nor

anybody else gave Shahnawaz Chaudhari a beating at the material time. The

report also places great emphasis on the testimony of one Fahmida, the

mother-in-law of Farha, who was having an altercation with her husband at

the Gagan Cinema, T-point, Nand Nagri which quarrel was the reason in the

first place for the presence of the police at the spot, where the incident

occurred. Her testimony is relied upon to urge that the police personnel

present did not beat Shahnawaz Chaudhari with lathies, dandas, fist blows or

kicks nor did they press his neck. Similar is the testimony reproduced at

great length in the status report of Rihana, Shamshad, Mohd. Salman, Nafees

Ahmed and Tufail Ahmed, who were allegedly witnesses to the incident at

Gagan Cinema, T-point, Nand Nagri on the date of the incident. 31. The testimony of the eye witness Manish, who runs a puncture repair

shop at the spot, is relied upon to demonstrate that the allegation of police

brutality is unfounded and false. The testimonies of Lokesh Mittal,

Devender as well as Rani are also relied upon in this behalf. 32. In paragraph 30 of the status report the sequence of events at the

relevant time is enumerated thus: Udaiveer and Ct. (Dvr) Sachin were present in
 the PCR Van. (e) At 05.51 PM a PCR call regarding quarrel at
 Gagan Cinema T-Point was received in PS
 Nand Nagri vide DD No.84-B, which was
 marked to HC Shripal on emergency duty for
 necessary legal action. (f) After few minutes, Shahnawaz @ Shanu along
 with his wife Rabia and child arrived at the spot
 on a Bullet Motorcycle. (g) Shahnawaz @ Shanu asked caller Farah to get
 down from the PCR Van and on resistance from
 police personnel Shahnawaz @ Shanu started
 abusing the police personnel. (h) Despite directions not to intervene, Shahnawaz
 @ Shanu kept on insisting that Farah should get
 down from the PCR Van. Due to this, a scuffle
 ensued between Shahnawaz @ Shanu and the
 PCR staff. (i) After few minutes, police Gypsy from local
 police station Emergency Response Vehicle
 (ERV)-57 staff reached the spot. SI Manzoor
 Hasan, I/C ERV-57, Driver Ct Deepak and lady
 Ct Anita were present in ERV-57. (j) On their way back to the police station, the
 police Gypsy (ERV-57) reaches Gagan Cinema
 T-Point. Normally the spot Gagan Cinema T- Point falls on the way from Sunder Nagri to the
 police station. (k) Lady Constable Anita segregated Rabia towards
 one side. (l) Shahnawaz @ Shanu became very violent and
 kept on abusing the police personnel and
 resisting himself to be taken in the police Gypsy
 and the police station. (m) At 06.08 PM, PCR Van Baker-36 passed
 message to Baker-1 that they were on the spot
 and ERV Staff (Gypsy) are also on the spot. And one man is misbehaving with them and the
 ERV Staff (Gypsy), which is causing traffic
 jam. Further, they requested to send local
 police at the spot. (n) At 06.12 PM, I/C PCR Van B-36 contacted the
 Duty Officer of the Police Station Nand Nagri
 on 'landline phone' that one man is
 misbehaving with them and the ERV staff,
 which is causing traffic jam and asked for
 sending local police on the spot. (o) Police personnel finally managed to put
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu inside the ERV-57 (Police
 Station Gypsy) and the Gypsy was ready to
 move from spot to PS Nand Nagri. (p) Meanwhile, Constable Sumit also arrived along
 with SI Rajender Kumar on his private
 motorcycle sent from the police station on
 demand of PCR Baker-36. (q) Due to traffic congestion, SI Rajender could not
 reach the spot and directed Constable Sumit to
 reach the spot on foot. (r) Constable Sumit reached the Gypsy and
 boarded the rear cabin of the Gypsy. He held
 the door of Gypsy on the direction of SI
 Manzoor Hasan since the legs of Shahnawaz @
 Shanu were protruding from the police Gypsy
 (ERV-57) and started for the police station. (s) ERV-57 (Police Station Gypsy) followed PCR
 Van to PS Nand Nagri. (t) At 06.25 PM, Insp Tarkeshwar Singh, SHO
 Nand Nagri and Insp Sanjeev Kumar, Insp
 Investigation/ Nand Nagri along with staff were
 about to start for spot for the verification of DD
 No.84-B, as per directions of senior officers, in
 Govt. Vehicle vide DD No.23-A.
 (u) At 06.25 PM, Police Gypsy arrived in
 compound of PS Nand Nagri and all persons get
 deboarded along with Shahnawaz @ Shanu who
 was already unconscious. (v) After alighting from the EVR, Rabia went
 inside the Police Station. (w) Soon after PCR Van also reached PS Nand
 Nagri and was parked outside the gate of PS
 Nand Nagri. (x) Farah deboarded from the PCR Van and went
 inside the police station along with ASI Tej
 Singh. Thereafter, Shahshad reached Police
 Station and met Rabia and Farah. He came to
 know that Shahnawaz @ Shanu had been taken
 to the hospital. (y) While SHO Insp. Tarkeshwar Singh along with
 staff were leaving the Police Station vide DD
 No.84-B, they saw ERV coming inside the
 police station compound. I/C ERV apprised
 him that one Shahnawaz @ Shanu who was
 brought in ERV was not well. On this,
 SHO/Nand Nagri directed I/C ERV to take
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu to GTB hospital. (z) Shahnawaz @ Shanu was immediately shifted
 to the emergency of GTB Hospital in ERV-57
 (Police Station Gypsy) accompanied by SI
 Manzoor Hasan, Constable Deepak and
 Constable Sumit. (aa) At about 06.35 PM PCR Baker-36, reported
 brief of the incident to Central Police Control
 Room. (bb) At 06.54 PM, deceased Shahnawaz @ Shanu
 was declared brought dead in GTB Hospital. (cc) Statement of Farah wife of Shamshad revealed
 that ERV reached Police Station before PCR. It
 means, ERV moved swiftly in comparison with
 PCR Van which moved before ERV from spot. The distance between spot to PS Nand Nagri is
 one (01) Kilometer and there is only one red
 light on Wazirabad Road in between the spot
 and PS Nand Nagri. The said red light has left W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 29 of 65 turn free for going towards the police station.
 Statement of witnesses established that the
 journey covered by ERV took only a few
 minutes. (dd) During examination in the intervening night of
 07/08.09.2015 by Shri Achal Tyagi, Ld. MM,
 Karkardooma Courts, Delhi petitioner number 1
 stated that at around 04.00 PM Shahnawaz @
 Shanu asked one couple as to why they were
 fighting in public. The police officials were
 also present at spot at that time and asked
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu not to interfere. Thereafter, police officials told Shahnawaz @
 Shanu that he was trying to teach law to them,
 he should come to PS, they will teach him law.
 The police officials thereafter took Shahnawaz
 @ Shanu and the petitioner in Police Gypsy and
 brought them to the PS. Shahnawaz @ Shanu
 became unconscious on the way as fight had
 ensued on the spot and the police officials were
 pulling and dragging him. Her clothes were
 also during scuffle. The police officials also
 slapped Shahnawaz @ Shanu and thereafter
 made Shahnawaz @ Shanu and her to sit in the
 police vehicle. The police officials took her on
 one side and thereafter took out lathis/wooden
 sticks. She has stated that Shahnawaz @ Shanu
 had taken beer at his house, however, he was
 not drunk. She has stated that Shahnawaz @
 Shanu was unconscious when the police vehicle
 reached at PS. She also stated that no one from
 her house was present in the PS besides herself.
 (ee) Further, during her subsequent examination on
 16.09.2015 by Shri Achal Tyagi, Ld. MM,
 Karkardooma Courts, Delhi petitioner number 1
 stated tha ton 07.09.2015, she along with her
 husband were going to see her sister when they
 saw a fight going on near red light of Gagan
 Cinema. Shahnawaz @ Shanu stopped there
 and asked Farah, whom he knew, to get down W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 30 of 65 from the police vehicle and to settle the dispute
 amicably with her husband. It is further stated
 that on this, the police officials, who were 4 to 5
 in number started beating Shahnawaz @ Shanu
 with hands. It is stated that after some time,
 other police officials also came at the spot and
 they also started beating Shahnawaz @ Shanu.
 The police officials thereafter took out dandas
 and started beating Shahnawaz @ Shanu. Shahnawaz @ Shanu was made to sit in the
 police Gypsy and besides Shahnawaz @ Shanu,
 there were five other police officials at the back
 of Gypsy. It is stated that while coming to PS
 Nand Nagri, three police officials sat on the
 chest of Shahnawaz @ Shanu despite her
 objection. At the PS Shahnawaz @ Shanu was
 taken out from the police vehicle and thereafter,
 she was not allowed to see her husband as she
 was taken inside the PS by the lady Constable
 and she was informed that her husband
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu became unconscious and
 shifted to hospital. (ff) Petitioner No.1, during her examination, under Section 161 Cr.P.C. by the SIT, stated that
 policemen put Shahnawaz @ Shanu in ERV in
 which there were two policemen on the front
 seat, four in the rear cabin in addition to one
 lady Constable, herself and Shahnawaz @
 Shanu. There were three policemen in uniform
 on the left hand side and one policeman in civil
 clothes, herself and lady Constable on the
 RIGHT HAND SIDE. The first policeman on
 the LEFT HAND SIDE (Rear Cabin) caught
 hold of Shahnawaz @ Shanu's hand and the
 policeman in the middle was beating
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu. The last policeman on
 the LEFT HAND SIDE caught Shahnawaz @
 Shanu's legs. The first policeman on the LEFT
 HAND SIDE sat on Shahnawaz @ Shanu's
 chest. The person in civil clothes sitting next to
 her on the RIGHT HAND SIDE also started W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 31 of 65 beating Shahnawaz @ Shanu. The middle
 policeman on the LEFT HAND SIDE sat on
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu's abdomen. The
 policeman sitting at the end on the left hand
 side sat on the legs of the Shahnawaz @ Shanu
 and said that Shahnawaz @ Shanu should not
 be spared. She was taken out of PS along with
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu who was unconscious
 while deboarding from Gypsy. She further
 stated that the Gypsy reached Police Station
 Nand Nagri in 5 minutes (approx.) and
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu was taken out from ERV- 57 (Police Station Gypsy) in unconscious
 condition. She was taken inside the police
 station by telling her that Shahnawaz @ Shanu
 needs to be shifted to hospital as he was
 unconscious. (gg) Further, in her statement before SDM
 Seemapuri, she stated that Shahnawaz @ Shanu
 was unconscious when he was deboarded from
 the ERV in Police Station. (hh) Perusal of statements of petitioner No.1 given
 before Ld. MM, SDM, Seemapuri and SIT and
 analysis of contents of video-clip provided by
 SDM Seemapuri reveals that deceased
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu was motionless (probably
 unconscious) before carrying him in Police
 Gypsy (ERV) on spot and he was struggling for
 life. (ii) A request has been made to the Director of
 CFSL, New Delhi to recreate the scene of crime
 and also to assist the SIT in establishing the
 injuries that could result from the beating as
 alleged by Rabia. (jj) From the analysis of available video-clip it has
 been revealed that:- 33. On the basis of the statements of witnesses and material evidence, the

status report concludes as follows: Thereafter, when PCR Baker-36 requested for
 re-enforcement from the Police Station, at
 Gagan Cinema T-Point, SI Rajender and Ct. Sumit were dispatched for the spot on SI
 Rajender's motorcycle. However, the
 motorcycle stopped a few meters before the
 Gagan Cinema T-Point because of traffic jam
 owing to the crowd gathered there. Therefore,
 SI Rajender stayed back on the motorcycle,
 while Ct. Sumit went to the ERV-57 on foot. The sitting arrangement of staff reached in the
 ERV-57 (Police Station Gypsy) that reached
 Gagan Cinema T-Point is attached. (Annexure-
 J). viii. The investigation shows that Shahnawaz @
 Shanu was brought in Police Station Nand
 Nagri along with SI Manzoor Hassan on
 conductor seat and Constable Deepak as Driver.
 In the rear cabin of ERV-57 (Police Station
 Gypsy), on the LEFT HAND SIDE, in all
 probability, Constable Udaiveer was sitting
 behind on the first seat, Constable Sumit on the
 last seat by holding door of the ERV-57 (Police
 Station Gypsy). On the RIGHT HAND SIDE
 one person in civil clothes (Vinay Kumar) was
 seated behind the driver, petitioner number 1
 was on the middle seat and lady Constable
 Anita was sitting along the door. Shahnawaz @
 Shanu was lying on the floor in between the
 seats. This arrangement can be seen at
 (Annexure-K). All the alleged police personnel have been suspended
 from duty by the concerned Disciplinary Authorities. The
 Director, FSL has been requested to expedite the result of
 exhibits i.e. Viscera, Blood, Nails, DVR and video-clip. From the PME report dated 09.09.2015, it is clear that
 there are 23 injuries on the body of deceased Shahnawaz @
 Shanu besides significant internal injuries on head & neck
 region. The statements of witnesses and material evidence
 has been able to establish. a. The position of policemen and other persons
 including deceased Shahnawaz @ Shanu inside the
 Gypsy. (Annexure -K). b. Shahnawaz @ Shanu became unconscious at some
 point during the scuffle when he was being lifted
 from the road and while he was being put inside the
 ERV-57 (Police Station Gypsy) and remained
 unconscious till he was taken out of ERV-57
 (Police Station Gypsy) in the Police Station from
 where he was shifted to GTB Hospital where he
 was declared brought dead. c. There are contradictions in statements of the
 petitioner No.1, public person Vinay, public
 witnesses- Manish, Lokesh Mittal, Shamshad,
 Farah, Rihana and in the version of Ct. Sumit and
 Ct. Udaiveer. The contradiction has been on the
 variation of sitting plan inside the Gypsy [as per
 version of Shamshad and Ct. Sumit at (Annexure-
 K), as per version of Rabia at (Annexure-L), as per
 version of Vinay Kumar (Annexure-M) in which
 Shahnawaz @ Shanu was being carried to the
 Police Station. The contradiction are also
 regarding who beat Shahnawaz @ Shanu at the
 spot i.e. Gagan Cinema T-Point before boarding the
 Gypsy; alleged beatings/torture given by some of
 the persons sitting inside the Gypsy enroute to the
 police station. d. In the light of the above facts, it has not been
 possible for the SIT to come to any definite
 conclusion at the stage as to at what point, which
 action and on whose part the deceased Shahnawaz
 @ Shanu received the fatal injury on his body
 which ultimately resulted in his death. It is
 precisely for these reasons that a Medical Board of W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 36 of 65 eminent doctors from AIIMS has been got
 constituted and Director CFSL has been requested
 to recreate the scene of crime. The Investigation of the case is in progress. The undersigned
 will abide by the directions by the Hon'ble High Court of
 Delhi." 34. A close scrutiny of what has been extracted hereinabove reveals the

following:- 35. In this behalf it would be relevant to observe that a plain reading of the

subject FIR reveals that Shahnawaz Chaudhari was fully conscious when he

was hauled into the ERV and had lost consciousness by the time the vehicle

reached the concerned Police Station. The testimony of the delinquent police

officers, as recorded in the subject FIR, clearly supports this conclusion. Therefore, the conclusion arrived at by the SIT that Shahnawaz Chaudhari

was motionless (probably unconscious) before boarding the ERV, is on the

face of it contrary to the record. 36. The dismissal of allegations of physical torture, inflicted by the

delinquent police personnel on Shahnawaz Chaudhari, by the SIT leave a lot

to be desired. There is no officer forthcoming to explain how Shahnawaz

Chaudhari sustained 23 injuries including the injuries on his head and neck W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 38 of 65 region between the time he was boarded on to the ERV and the time he was

declared brought dead at the GTB Hospital. The deceased victim was

admittedly in police custody throughout this period. The role of each of the

delinquent police personnel during the entire incident has not been

delineated in the status report. The SIT has refrained from mentioning what

caused the death of Shahnawaz on that fateful day. The only submission in

this behalf is that investigation is on-going. 37. I must observe that the SIT is as clueless today about what occasioned

Shahnawaz Chaudhari's death as it was almost three months ago when the

incident occurred. It is also incumbent upon this Court to consider the fact

finding report dated 15.09.2015 authored by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate,

Seemapuri in accordance with law. The report captures the chronology of

events thus:- 38. The Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Seemapuri highlights the initial

hesitation on the part of the concerned SHO to disclose any information

about the incident. 39. The statement of Rabia, the widow of the deceased extracted in the

SDM's report is as follows:- 40. The fact finding report also recorded the statement of Manish, son of

Sanjay Singh and Subhash, son of Ganesh Das who are allegedly eye

witnesses. 41. The statement of Manish as recorded by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate

in his fact finding report is at variance with the statement made by Manish

subsequently before the SIT. 42. It is relevant to notice that whereas in the earlier statement Manish

stated that he witnessed 4 to 5 policemen beating the victim and continuing

to beat him for around 10 minutes before putting him into the police van and

taking him to the Police Station, in the later statement he testifies differently

and absolves the delinquent police personnel from any wrong doing. 43. Be that as it may what is more alarming is the circumstance that

Subhash, son of Ganesh, a Priest by profession at the Shiv Mandir located at

the site of the incident, who deposed before the Sub-Divisional Magistrate,

Seemapuri that the police personnel beat-up Shahnawaz Chaudhari, who fell

down on the road, at which time they promptly dragged him into the police

van, has not been examined by the SIT at all. Subhash is conveniently

unavailable. On a query from the Court, it has been stated that Subhash has

gone back to his native village and consequently, his statement under Section

161 of the Code has not been recorded so far by the SIT. 44. Ms. Prabhsahay Kaur, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

Delhi Commission for Women has strenuously urged that the investigation

be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inter alia for the

following reasons: 45. Mr. Colin Gonsalves, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of

the petitioner submitted after viewing the video clip furnished on behalf of

the SIT that the said clip had been doctored, inasmuch as, parts of the video

clip showing beatings inflicted on Shahnawaz Chaudhari, are not present, W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 45 of 65 which is at divergence from the copy of the video clip filed on behalf of the

petitioners, which video clip is also a part of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate,

Seemapuri's fact finding report. 46. Before I proceed further, I must perform the unpleasant task of

recording the response of the SIT to the circumstance that Mr. Zahid Ahmed,

who claims to be an eye witness to the incident, and whose statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. has been recorded before the concerned Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate, Karkardooma Courts, Delhi yesterday on the

directions of this Court, to the effect that if the police officer concerned

despite five calls did not record Mr. Ahmed's testimony, what prevented him

from approaching him the concerned Magistrate in this regard. It is urged

that Mr. Zahid Ahmed should have approached the concerned Magistrate

under Section 156(3) of the Code if the SIT was reluctant to record his

testimony. 47. A decision of the Supreme Court in Anand Wardhan and Another vs.

Pandurang and Others reported as (2006) 1 SCC 769 has been cited on

behalf of the SIT to buttress this submission. The ratio of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court as recorded in the said order is to the effect that "the law

provides that if the police fails to investigate a case arising from a first W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 46 of 65 information report lodged before it disclosing commission of a cognizable

offence, it is open to the informant/complainant to move the Magistrate

concerned for appropriate order under Section 156 Cr.P.C., or may file a

complaint and obtain appropriate orders from him for issuance of process

against the accused for trial." 48. While there can be no quarrel with the proposition that the correct

course of action in the event the police fails to carry out the investigation

into a cognizable offence is to approach the concerned Magistrate under Section 156 of the Code (Reference: Sakiri Vasu vs. State of U.P. reported

as (2008) 2 SCC 409 and Lalita Kumari vs. Government of Uttar Pradesh

reported as (2008) 7 SCC 164), with utmost respect, the said principle has no

application to the facts of the present case. The present is a case where the

allegations leveled are serious and are that police officers have employed

third-degree methods against an individual whose only offence was to

intervene at a time when the former were berating a quarrelling couple. 49. The forcible beatings allegedly inflicted on Shahnawaz Chaudhari by

the delinquent police officers and their alleged conduct in illegally detaining

Rabia @ Mamta, a 28 years old woman overnight in a Police Station,

contrary to the mandate of law under Section 46(4) of the Code and in the W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 47 of 65 face of all canons of justice on two separate occasions and their alleged

oversight in informing her that her husband had been brought dead to the

GTB Hospital at 06.54 p.m. on 07.09.2015 till 07.00 a.m. on the following

day, is according to me is also the reason why the decision relied upon by the

Delhi Police does not come to their aid. 50. In the landmark decision of the Supreme Court in Rubabbuddin

Sheikh vs. State of Gujarat and Others reported as (2010) 2 SCC 200 while

considering the transfer of an investigation at the stage where the police had

completed its investigation and submitted its charge sheet into the alleged

fake encounter of Sohrabuddin, referred to an earlier decision of the

Supreme Court in R.S. Sodhi vs. State of U.P. reported as 1994 Supp (1)

SCC 143 wherein the Court had observed as follows:- 51. It then went on to record its earlier decision in Kashmiri Devi vs.

Delhi Admn. reported as 1988 SCC (Cri) 864 observing that:- 52. The Supreme Court held as follows:- 53. The Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in State of West Bengal

and Others vs. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West

Bengal and Others reported as (2010) 3 SCC 571 considered the issue as to

whether a High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India can direct the Central Bureau of Investigation

established under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 to

investigate a cognizable offence, which is alleged to have taken place within

the territorial jurisdiction of a State, without the consent of the State

Government and concluded as follows:- As a matter of fact, such a power is essential to
 give practicable content to the objectives of the
 Constitution embodied in Part III and other parts of
 the Constitution. Moreover, in a federal
 constitution, the distribution of legislative powers
 between Parliament and the State Legislature
 involves limitation on legislative powers and,
 therefore, this requires an authority other than
 Parliament to ascertain whether such limitations are
 transgressed. Judicial review acts as the final
 arbiter not only to give effect to the distribution of
 legislative powers between Parliament and the
 State Legislatures, it is also necessary to show any W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 51 of 65 transgression by each entity. Therefore, to borrow
 the words of Lord Steyn, judicial review is justified
 by combination of "the principles of separation of
 powers, rule of law, the principle of
 constitutionality and the reach of judicial review". (iv) If the federal structure is violated by any legislative
 action, the Constitution takes care to protect the
 federal structure by ensuring that the Courts act as
 guardians and interpreters of the Constitution and
 provide remedy under Articles 32 and 226 ,
 whenever there is an attempted violation. In the
 circumstances, any direction by the Supreme Court
 or the High Court in exercise of power under Article 32 or 226 to uphold the Constitution and
 maintain the rule of law cannot be termed as
 violating the federal structure. (v) Restriction on Parliament by the Constitution and
 restriction on the executive by Parliament under an
 enactment, do not amount to restriction on the
 power of the Judiciary under Articles 32 and 226 of
 the Constitution. (vi) If in terms of Entry 2 of List II of the Seventh
 Schedule on the one hand and Entry 2-A and Entry
 80 of List I on the other, an investigation by
 another agency is permissible subject to grant of
 consent by the State concerned, there is no reason
 as to why, in an exceptional situation, the Court
 would be precluded from exercising the same
 power which the Union could exercise in terms of
 the provisions of the statute. In our opinion,
 exercise of such power by the constitutional courts
 would not violate the doctrine of separation of
 powers. In fact, if in such a situation the Court fails
 to grant relief, it would be failing in its
 constitutional duty. (vii) When the Special Police Act itself provides that
 subject to the consent by the State, CBI can take up
 investigation in relation to the crime which was
 otherwise within the jurisdiction of the State police, W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 52 of 65 the Court can also exercise its constitutional power
 of judicial review and direct CBI to take up the
 investigation within the jurisdiction of the State.
 The power of the High Court under Article 226 of
 the Constitution cannot be taken away, curtailed or
 diluted by Section 6 of the Special Police Act.
 Irrespective of there being any statutory provision
 acting as a restriction on the powers of the Courts,
 the restriction imposed by Section 6 of the Special
 Police Act on the powers of the Union, cannot be
 read as restriction on the powers of the
 constitutional courts. Therefore, exercise of power
 of judicial review by the High Court, in our
 opinion, would not amount to infringement of
 either the doctrine of separation of power or the
 federal structure." 54. In Dinubhai Boghabhai Solanki vs. State of Gujarat and Others reported as 2014 (2) SCALE 629 the Supreme Court was asked to transfer

the investigation into the murder of a RTI activist. Hon'ble Mr. Justice

Surinder Singh Nijjar speaking for the Bench held that the High Court may

transfer investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation to instill

confidence of the general public in the investigation. 55. In Mithilesh Kumar Singh vs. State of Rajasthan and Others reported as (2015) 9 SCC 795 Justice T.S. Thakur, J, as he then was,

speaking for the Court, emphasized the importance of a fair and proper

investigation. The Court affirmed an earlier decision in Sasi Thomas vs.

State reported as (2006) 12 SCC 421 and observed as follows:- 56. The Supreme Court further cited the case of Nirmal Singh Kahlon (supra) wherein it was held:- 57. The Supreme Court also referred to Babubhai vs. State of Gujarat reported as (2010) 12 SCC 254 wherein it was observed:- 58. The majority judgment in Mithilesh Kumar Singh (supra) held as

follows:- 14. Reference may also be made to the decision of this
 Court in State of Punjab v. CBI [(2011) 9 SCC 182 : 15. Suffice it to say that transfers have been ordered in
 varied situations but while doing so the test applied by
 the Court has always been whether a direction for
 transfer, was keeping in view the nature of allegations,
 necessary with a view to making the process of
 discovery of truth credible. What is important is that this
 Court has rarely, if ever, viewed at the threshold the
 prayer for transfer of investigation to CBI with
 suspicion. There is no reluctance on the part of the Court
 to grant relief to the victims or their families in cases,
 where intervention is called for, nor is it necessary for
 the petitioner seeking a transfer to make out a cast-iron
 case of abuse or neglect on the part of the State Police,
 before ordering a transfer. Transfer can be ordered once
 the Court is satisfied on the available material that such
 a course will promote the cause of justice, in a given
 case." 59. From a conspectus of the decisions above referred, the following legal

situation emerges:- 60. In the present case, Shahnawaz Chaudhari, the deceased-victim

intervened on behalf of a quarrelling couple in the presence of police officers

and is alleged to have been mercilessly beaten by the latter. It is further

alleged that he was dragged into the police ERV, punched, kicked and sat

upon (his chest) on the way to the Police Station. Shahnawaz Chaudhari is

stated to have been unconscious when he was taken by the police officers

from the Police Station to the GTB Hospital when he was declared brought

dead. The unfortunate incident resulted in riots and the police is stated to

have resorted to lathi charge to disburse the agitated mass. 61. The fact finding report of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Seemapuri

dated 15.09.2015 noted as follows:- 62. Further, the Metropolitan Magistrate during judicial enquiry recorded

the following finding dated 16.10.2015:- 63. The status report filed on behalf of the SIT, its contents and

conclusion leads to an impression that the investigating agency has not been W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 61 of 65 able to conduct itself in an impartial and fair manner. The failure on the part

of the SIT to record the statement of Subhash despite a passage of three

months and their reluctance to record the statement of Zahid Ahmed

indicates that all is not well with the investigation. 64. In the facts and circumstances discussed hereinabove, while

concluding with the investigation into the death of Shahnawaz Chaudhari is

far from fair, independent, bona fide and prompt and whilst refraining from

suggesting with the SIT should or should not have taken a particular line of

investigation or apprehended any person, expect in accordance with law, it is

incumbent and advisable for this Court to transfer the investigation to the

Central Bureau of Investigation so as to instill confidence of the general

public in the investigation, bearing in mind the seriousness of the allegations

leveled against the police officers. 65. Accordingly, the police authorities (SIT) are directed to hand over the

record of the present case to the Central Bureau of Investigation within a

week from today and thereafter the CBI authority shall take up the

investigation afresh and conclude the same within a period of six months

from the date of taking over the investigation from the police authorities. 66. The Central Bureau of Investigation is directed to register a RC on the

basis of the subject FIR already registered. 67. I expect the police authorities in Delhi to cooperate with the CBI in

conducting the investigation properly and in an appropriate manner. 68. Before parting, it is necessary for me, in view of the deposition of Mr.

Zahid Ahmed, who claims to be an eye witness of the incident, to direct the

DCP, North-East to provide adequate protection to him and ensure his safety. 69. The statement of Mr. Zahid Ahmed, recorded under Section 164 of the

Code by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Karkardooma Courts, Delhi

yesterday i.e. 02.12.2015 be handed over to the Central Bureau of

Investigation. 70. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, Central Forensic

Science Laboratory, and Forensic Science Laboratory are directed to

transmit their reports/opinions directly to the Central Bureau of Investigation

in Delhi. The afore-stated authorities are directed to expedite their reports in

view of the gravity and seriousness of the allegations leveled against the

officers of the State police. 71. The present order relates to prayer clauses (a) and (b) in the present

petition, which are allowed. Insofar as prayer clause (c), which relates to

compensation to Rabia @ Mamta and her minor child aged six months is

concerned, the Hon'ble Lieutenant Governor of Delhi and the Government

of NCT of Delhi shall take a decision in this behalf expeditiously and

preferably within one month from today. 72. It is hoped and expected that a humane, informed and well considered

decision shall be taken, keeping in mind the facts and circumstances

antecedent and attendant and the plight of the young widow and her six

month old baby boy. 73. The writ petition is disposed of. Pending applications, if any, stand

disposed of. 74. It is made clear that any observations made in this order are only for

the limited purpose of deciding the issue whether investigation ought to be

handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation or not and shall not be

construed as an expression of opinion on merits of the case. 75. A copy of this order be sent to the (i) All India Institute of Medical

Sciences; (ii) Central Forensic Science Laboratory; (iii) Forensic Science W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 64 of 65 Laboratory; (iv) Director, Central Bureau of Investigation, and (v) Secretary

(Home), Government of NCT of Delhi. SIDDHARTH MRIDUL, J

 DECEMBER 03, 2015
 dn W.P.(CRL) 2349/2015 Page 65 of 65