1.
			
			 
				 

Whether
				Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ? YES 2.
			
			 
				 

To
				be referred to the Reporter or not ? YES 3.
			
			 
				 

Whether
				their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the judgment ? NO 4.
			
			 
				 

Whether
				this case involves a substantial question of law as to the
				interpretation of the constitution of India, 1950 or any order
				made thereunder ? NO 5.
			
			 
				 

Whether
				it is to be circulated to the civil judge ? NO
			
		
	

 

===================================
 

CINEMASTER
(A DIVISION OF ASIAVISION ENTERTAINMENT PVT.LTD.) & 1 -
Petitioners
 

Versus
 

STATE
OF GUJARAT & 7 - Respondents
 

=================================== 
	 Appearance
: MR NIKUNT RAVAL, AGP for
Respondent Nos.1 - 6. MR SV RAJU for Respondent No.7. RULE
SERVED for Respondent No.8. 2.	 SPECIAL
CIVIL APPLICATION No. 12738 of 2001
 

	MR
BM MANGUKIYA for Petitioners. MR NIKUNT RAVAL, AGP for Respondent
Nos.1 - 5. MR TUSHAR MEHTA for Respondent No.7-8. RULE SERVED
for Respondent Nos.6. 3.	 SPECIAL
CIVIL APPLICATION No. 17783 of 2003
 

	MR
BM MANGUKIYA for Petitioners. MR NIKUNT RAVAL, AGP for Respondent
Nos.1 - 4. MR UTPAL M PANCHAL for Respondent No.5. 4.	 SPECIAL
CIVIL APPLICATION No. 16062 of 2004
 

	MR
UTPAL M PANCHAL for Petitioners. MR NIKUNT RAVAL, AGP for
Respondent Nos.1 5. ===================================
 
	 
	 
	 
		 
			 

CORAM
			: Special
	Civil Application No.12738 of 2001 is filed by Shri
	Rakesh K. Dua, proprietor of R. K. Video Cinema praying for writ of
	prohibition against the respondent authorities restraining them from
	taking away or seizing the VCR, VCD Screen and furniture and
	fixtures etc. including other instruments from the custody of the
	petitioner during the raid, if any, that may be carried out at the
	instance of any complainant claiming to have any copy right. This
	Court has issued notice on 07.01.2002 for final disposal and notice
	as to interim relief. While issuing the notice, the Court's
	attention was drawn to the provisions contained in Section 64 of the
	Copyright Act, 1956 which
	confers power on the Police Authorities to seize infringing copies
	and all plates, used for the purpose of making infringing copies of
	the work, but there is no provision in the Act empowering the Police
	authorities to seize equipments like VCR Projector, Music system,
	Amplifiers, Speakers or any furniture. The petition was admitted on
	19.01.2002. During
	the pendency of this petition, Civil Application
	No.951 of 2002 was moved by Cinemaster and another, to be joined as
	party respondent Nos.6 & 7 in Special Civil Application
	No.12738 of 2001. The said application was granted by the Court on
	28.10.2009 and accordingly, the said applicants were joined as party
	 respondents in Special Civil Application No.12738 of 2001. Special
	Civil Application No.17783 of 2003 is filed by Shri Nilesh J. Patel
	praying for the direction and/or declaration that no criminal
	prosecution can be launched against any person including the
	petitioner by any person
	unless and until the producer and/or assignee of the right of the
	producer make available copy of the film in respect of which they
	hold right to the public for commercial exploitation. The
	petitioner has also prayed for the direction to the respondent
	Association to make available the copy of the film in any form
	either Video Cassettes, CDs, Video CDs or DVDs for commercial use in
	the market and to see that till then, no offence shall be registered
	by them for the alleged infringement against any person
	including the petitioners. The petitioners have also prayed for the
	direction to the respondent authorities not to accept any complaint
	and/or record any criminal complaint against the petitioner and/or
	any Video theater Owners on the strength of the complaint made by
	other respondents unless and until such person satisfy the Police
	Officer that the said respondent and/or
	its agent holds the right from the concerned producer of the film
	and he has discharged his obligation by making available the copy of
	such film in any form for commercial use and exploitation. This
	Court has issued notice on 22.12.2003. The Court has also permitted
	the petitioner to present the said petition in representative
	capacity and directed the petitioner to see that notice of
	institution of the said petition and nature of the order passed by
	the Court on that day, is published by the Registry at the cost of
	the petitioner in two newspapers, namely, Gujarat Samachar and
	Fulchhab. The
	petition was admitted on 15.10.2004. Again notice for final
	disposal under Order 1, Rule 8 of the Code of Civil Procedure as
	well as notice as to interim relief was issued on the same day and
	the petitioner was directed to prepare an advertisement and to
	supply the same to the office. The office was further directed to
	publish the said advertisement in daily newspapers, namely, Gujarat
	Samachar and Sandesh. Under
	the above circumstances, all the four petitions are taken up for
	final hearing. Heard
	learned Advocates Ms. Srushti A. Thula, Mr. B. M. Mangukiya, Mr.
	Utpal M. Panchal, Mr. S.V. Raju, Mr. Tushar Mehta and learned
	Assistant Government Pleader Mr. Nikunt Raval for the respective
	parties. In
	Special Civil Application No.5271 of 2001 and 16062 of 2004,
	petitioners are common. The petitioner No.1 is a Division of Asia
	Vision Entertainment Private Limited, a Company duly registered
	under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 . The petitioner
	No.1 is a consortium of various Video Companies like Time, Gold,
	Net, Bombino, Indus etc. and is owning sole and exclusive commercial
	video rights of more than 1200 Indian films. The petitioner No.2 is
	a Company duly registered under the provisions of the Companies Act,
	1956 . The said Company undertakes the activity of preventing theft
	of copyright on behalf of owners of copyrights. The petitioner No.1
	has authorized petitioner No.2 to ensure that its copyrights are not
	violated by giving a Power of Attorney to petitioner No.2. The
	brief facts of the case are that Video Cinema Hall Operators at
	Surat have been exhibiting films in fragrant defiance and breach of
	the provisions of the Act, without obtaining any license and/or
	written permission from the owner of the copyright i.e. petitioner
	No.1, which is an infringement of copyright under the Act. The
	respondent No.1 to 6 being State authorities are duty bound to
	ensure that no breach is committed of the Act and while ensuring the
	same, the respondents are under a statutory obligation to seize the
	equipments used for infringement of copyright including Projectors,
	Television Sets, Amplifiers, speakers, Video Cassette / Video CD /
	DVD Players etc. used for infringement of copy rights by
	unauthorized public exhibition of films on Video Cassettes / public
	video CDs / DVDs etc. it is the statutory obligation of the
	respondents
	and their subordinate Officers to implement the mandatory provisions
	of the Act whenever a breach thereof is found by entering and
	seizing the above referred equipments and arresting the persons
	found responsible for violating the Act. The petitioner No.2 has
	brought the said violation to the notice of the respondents. The
	respondents are either not taking any action or are doing only lip
	service to the provisions of the law by merely seizing the Video
	Cassettes / Video CDs / DVDs. As a result, the Video Cinema Hall
	Operators continue to commit breach of the provisions of the Act. 
	Immediately after such seizure of Video Cassettes / Video CDs / DVDs
	by exhibiting other Video Cassettes / Video CDs / DVDs, which is
	again without license and/or written permission from the owner of
	the copyrights. The
	petitioners have made several representations in writing in this
	behalf. As a matter of fact, the respondents started implementing
	the law by seizing the above referred equipments whenever the breach
	was committed by the respondents. When the law enforcing
	agencies started implementing the provisions of the Act, about 73
	cinema halls approached this Court by filing Special Criminal
	Application No.548 of 2000, inter
	alia,
	praying that police authorities have no power of seizure under Section 64 of the Act so far as the seizure of Projectors and other
	equipments are concerned. After having argued the matter, the Video
	Cinema Hall Operators withdrew the said petition which fact was
	recorded by this Court in order dated 30.08.2000. They withdrew the
	petition so as to ensure that no final judgment adverse to them is
	pronounced by this Court ostensibly with a view to take recourse to
	some so-called alternative remedy. Video
	Cinema Hall Operators, however, resorted to pressure tactics by
	undertaking an indefinite hunger strike before the office of
	respondent No.2. Large scale protests and demonstrations were
	organized before the office of respondent No.2 and a threat of fast
	unto death was administered. Video Cinema Hall Operators also gave
	wide press publicity to their demonstrations
	and hunger strike with a view to bring pressure upon the respondent
	authorities and more particularly respondent No.2 herein. In view
	of the pressure tactics adopted by the Video Cinema Hall Operators,
	the respondent No.2 was compelled to issue another Circular under
	which he instructed his subordinates to seize only Video Cassettes /
	Video CDs / DVDs and not the equipments which enabled the Video
	Cinema Hall Operators to start operating again after seizure of
	Video Cassettes / Video CDs / DVDs which were being exhibited
	unauthorizedly and in breach of the provisions of the Act. The
	petitioners, therefore, made detailed representations on different
	occasions. However, no concrete steps were taken by the respondent
	authorities. The petitioners were shocked by the decision
	communicated to them by the Director General of Police in May 2001
	that he would not seize the equipments even if it is found during
	the course of the raid being conducted that the Video Cinema Hall
	Operators are in fact infringing the provisions of the Act. The
	petitioners were also communicated
	that he would not give any priority for conducting the raid for
	infringement of copyrights, and that it would be for the petitioners
	to bear necessary charges for the staff provided during the raid in
	advance. They have approached this Court with a request to hold
	that the respondents have no jurisdiction, competence, authority or
	power to require the petitioners to pay any amount as implementation
	of law is an obligation cast upon the respondent authorities and for
	discharging such an obligation, no amount is payable by a person
	informing the authorities about the infringement of law. Even
	in Special Civil Application No.16062 of 2004, the grievance of the
	petitioners was that the respondents are required to discharge their
	statutory obligations of implementing and ensuring implementation of
	the Copyright Act, 1957 and to see
	that there is no infringement of the provisions of the Copyright
	Act . It is, therefore, alleged that in connivance with the Video
	Cinema Hall Operators, who
	have vested interests in violating the provisions of the Act, the
	respondent authorities are either not taking any action or allow the
	persons infringing the provisions of the Act, to escape. Inspite of
	several attempts by the petitioners, no action is being taken by the
	respondents against the persons committing breach of the provisions
	of the Act and, therefore, they are constrained to again approach
	this Court by way of filing the second writ petition. The private
	respondents in these two petitions are more or less the petitioners
	in Special Civil Application No.12738 of 2001 and 17783 of 2003. in
	these two petitions, the petitioners of earlier two petitions are
	also party respondents. Special
	Civil Application No.12738 of 2001 is filed by Shri Rakesh K.
	Dua, proprietor of R. K. Video Cinema, Surat. He is a license Video
	Cinema Exhibitor in the city of Surat. His main grievance is that
	the respondent authorities at the instance of third parties carried
	out illegal raids in the premises of
	the petitioner and in the name of breach of Copyright Act , all
	articles and belongings of the petitioner were taken away by the
	police authorities, although under Sections 63 & 64 of the Act,
	illegal cassettes or film, if any, can be seized. False criminal
	complaints were also lodged and the petitioner and other like
	persons were subjected to the torture of the authorities. In these
	circumstances, the petitioner has approached this Court. Special
	Civil Application No.17783 of 2003 is filed by Shri Nilesh J. Patel,
	proprietor of Prime Lesser Cinema. He challenged the action of the
	respondent authorities being illegal, invalid and in violation of
	the provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957 . The contention raised in
	this petition is that the person who produces the film is entitled
	to have his copyrights protected, but the said copyrights cannot be
	used for extortion of money in as much as in the name of protection
	of rights of the copyright holders, various Agencies are moving in
	the market claiming that
	they are holding copyrights in respect of thousands of films and to
	exhibit the said films in the Video theaters. It is their endeavour
	to see that everyone has to become member of the said Company or
	Association and pay annual fees which is contrary to the provisions
	contained in the Act. The allegation of the petitioner was that
	under the strength of the so-called Power of Attorney or assignee of
	the alleged rights of few hundreds or thousand films, they file
	criminal complaints for the alleged infringement of the provisions
	of the Act and in view of the said complaints, not only the Video
	cassettes or CDs or DVDs are seized but the Projectors and
	infrastructure of the Video theaters are being seized which is
	contrary to the provisions of Section 64 of the Act which results
	into nothing but extortion of the money in as much as the owners of
	the Video Theaters are being authorized to become member of more
	than one Association so as to enable them to have license for
	exhibition of the films in the video theaters and are authorized to
	acquire rights of exhibition of the films which they never
	proposed and they never exhibited the films and are also authorized
	to acquire the rights of the exhibition of the films which are
	either under production or in future they may acquire. Failure to
	become a member will prompt them to file criminal complaints and
	harass the petitioner. The
	petitioner has made a reference of one magazine produced by the
	Indian Motion Picture, namely, Spotlight, which has published a
	public notice declaring that the Association of Motion Pictures and
	TV Programme Producers notified that in order to curb the piracy and
	protect their interest, power of attorney issued to various
	copyright protection agencies has been taken away and the sole
	authority to take action is vested in the said Association and no
	other person has right to file any FIR. Various Companies are
	claiming that they are holders of copyrights from the producers in
	respect of Motion Pictures and TV Programmes. Certain illustrations
	are pointed out in the petition. On 21.10.2003, respondent No.5
	issued notice to several Video
	Cine Owners calling upon them that they are the holders of right of
	so many companies and, therefore, they have to obtain license from
	them so as to enable them to exhibit the film in their video
	theater. The said notice was issued to Dharti Video Cinema wherein
	it was stated that they are holder of copyright of companies i.e.
	Time, Bombino, Indus, Venus, Captain Net, Gold, Priya, Bit and Zypsy
	/ Ace Video. It is stated in the said notice that the said theater
	owners shall obtain the license by paying fees of Rs.33,000/-
	towards annual fees and Rs.3,000/- for additional charge of
	exhibition by Projector. If the said person fails to obtain
	license, they would prosecute them. Similar notice has been issued
	to Liberty Video Cinema dated 27.10.2003. To obtain necessary
	information from the said Company, the petitioner wrote a letter
	dated 28.11.2003 requesting the respondent to provide necessary
	information in respect of the right held by the said Company and the
	fees for exhibiting the said film and information in respect of the
	place where their copy under the right can be obtained. The
	respondent
	No.5 replied the said letter through its local Agent that Company
	gives license for exhibiting the film available in the market in the
	form of video cassettes, video CDS and DVDs for the period of one
	year, which they grant permission to exhibit only, the Company does
	not copy the film and does not supply the video cassettes, Video CDs
	or DVDs. The Company said that they do not have copy of the
	Agreement and copies are also not being shown to anybody. When the
	license is obtained, the list of films would be made available to
	the holders of the license. In view of such development, the second
	petition being Special Civil Application No.17783 of 2003 was filed. Thus, in view
	of the conflicting interest of the two groups, role of State
	Agencies and State Authorities is required to be examined and what
	are the steps to be taken by them to safeguard the interest of the
	parties are required to be determined by the Court in this group of
	petitions. An
	affidavit-in-reply is filed by the District Collector, Surat in
	Special Civil Application No.5271 of 2001 wherein it is contended
	that the power under Section 64 of the Copyright Act is vested in
	the Police Officers for taking action against the Video Cinema
	Houses responsible for violating the Copyright Act . The powers are
	not given to the District Magistrate or the Mamlatdar, Entertainment
	for taking actions against the violators of the provisions of the Copyright Act . If the organizers of the Video Cinema violate the Copyright Act and show the video films, then the Police Officers can
	take necessary actions. All the Police Commissioners / Collectors
	and District Magistrates / District Police Officers have been issued
	instructions to take steps for violation of the Copyright Act by the
	Govt. letter dated 01.02.1999 by the Deputy Secretary, Information
	and Broadcasting department, Gandhinagar. The Mamlatdar,
	Entertainment Tax, Surat has vide his letter dated 03.02.2000
	instructed all the cable operators and Video Hall Organizers to
	abide by the instructions issued by the Government and not to
	violate
	the Copyright Act . It is, therefore, contended that the reliefs
	prayed for in the petition are not required to be granted and the
	petition deserves to be dismissed. An
	affidavit-in-reply is filed by the respondent No.5 i.e. Police
	Inspector, Varachha Road Police Station, Surat in Special Civil
	Application No.5271 of 2001 wherein it is, inter
	alia,
	contended that wherever any complaint is received that the films are
	released by committing breach of the provisions of the Copyright Act by using Video
	Cassette, Video CD and DVD, the competent authority is taking
	action under Section 64 of the Act by seizing such articles and
	hence, it is not correct to state that the Police Authorities are
	not taking any action. It is further contended that there was no
	connivance of the police officers with people having vested
	interest. Specific instances wherein steps were taken by the police
	department are given in the reply. There was a raid on 17.04.2000
	and it was found that the picture was being
	released on Video CD. Immediately, a crime was
	registered under Crime Register No.3150 of 2001 under Section 52-A and 68 of the Copyright Act. Three persons were arrested and the
	order of the remand for the period from 05.06.2001 to 07.06.2001 was
	obtained and the film print was also taken into custody and further
	investigations were made. Similarly on 18.04.2001, a complaint
	being Crime Register No.173 of 2001 for the offences punishable
	under Sections 143 , 147 , 148 , 149 , 395 , 186 and 427 of the Indian
	Penal Code were registered against one Mr. Ashwin J. Patel and
	others. Four accused were arrested. On the basis
	of the details given in the reply, it is contended that wherever any
	action is required to be taken, the Police authorities is
	immediately taking such action and hence, the allegations made in
	the petition against the police authorities is without any basis and
	hence, the petition deserves to be dismissed. One
	more reply has come on record of Special Civil Application
	No.5271 of 2001 which is filed by respondent No.7 a private
	party who was subsequently impleaded as respondent No.7 in the said
	petition. The petition was opposed on the ground of suppression of
	material facts / documents. It is alleged that there is nothing on
	record to show that the petitioner No.1 is a consortium of various
	Video companies. No material was produced to show that they are
	owning sole and commercial video copyrights of more than 1200 Indian
	films. Even the names of such films were not mentioned. Similarly,
	the so-called authority alleged to have been given to the petitioner
	No.2 by the petitioner No.1 has also not been produced. It is
	further contended that one Mr. Dhiraj N. Shah who has sworn the
	affidavit in the present petition as petitioner No.1 had filed
	Regular Civil Suit No.398 of 1991 under the name of Cable Video
	private limited in the Court of Civil Judge (S.D.), Rajkot praying
	for similar relief as prayed for in the petition. In the said suit,
	it has been claimed by the plaintiff that he is having copyrights
	of more than 3,000 films. If that plaintiff
	in the said suit is having copyright of more than 3,000 films, then
	it is not possible that the present petitioner has copyrights of
	more than 1200 films as averred in the petition. It is, therefore,
	contended that only on the ground of suppression regarding Civil
	Suit, the petition is required to be dismissed. It is further
	contended that the petitioners are having efficacious alternative
	remedy under the law and hence, extra-ordinary writ jurisdiction of
	this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is not
	required to be exercised. It is further contended that the
	respondent Nos.1 to 6 are not under any statutory obligation to
	seize all the equipments used for infringement of copyright
	including Projectors, Television Sets, Amplifiers, speakers, Video
	Cassette / Video CD / DVD Players etc. Under the Copyright Act , it
	is the duty of the copyright owner to make available commercial
	video cassette / Video CD / DVD as per the provisions of the Cinematographic Act, 1952 . No commercial Cassettes / DVDs with
	Sensor Certificate issued by the
	competent authority is made available in the open
	market by the so-called copyrights owner of the films. The
	so-called Video Companies claiming themselves owner of the copyright
	are indulging in activities violating the provisions of Section 7-A of the Cinematographic Act, 1952 because distinct serial number is
	not given to the Video Cassettes / CDs and DVDs by them. The
	purchasers are not given bills for purchase of Video Cassettes, CD
	and DVDs at their authorized Video shop, possibly either because
	they are themselves indulging in duplicating and evading huge excise
	duty. It is, therefore, contended that such persons are not
	entitled to invoke the extraordinary powers to this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. It
	is further contended by the respondent No.7 that the interpretation
	placed by the petitioner on Section 63 and 64 of the Copyright Act
	is not correct. The petitioner is trying to mislead this Court in
	as much as under Section 64 , the Police has got the power to seize
	without warrant all copies of the work and all
	plates used for the purpose of making infringing
	copies of the work. Hence, only those plates which are used for the
	purpose of making infringement copies of the work can be seized. 
	The police authorities have no power to seize everything, including
	Projectors,
	Television Sets, Amplifiers, speakers, Video Cassette / Video CD /
	DVD Players etc. as the same are being used for the purpose of
	making infringing copies of the work. It is not even the case of
	the petitioners that the Video Cinema owners are making infringing
	copies of the work. It
	is further contended in the reply that it is not the responsibility
	of respondent Nos.1 to 6 to seize all equipments used for
	unauthorized public exhibition of films on Video Cassettes / CDs /
	DVDs without any license or written permission from the copyright
	owners. If the petitioners desire to have any declaration of right,
	then they shall have to file appropriate proceedings before the
	appropriate forum, but they cannot invoke the extraordinary writ
	jurisdiction
	of this Court for declaration of their right and
	further declaration that the offence under the Copyright Act i.e.
	offence of infringement of copyright is a non-bailable offence and,
	therefore, the Police authorities have no power to grant bail
	contrary to the statutory provisions. The petitioners are also not
	entitled to the declaration that the duty to implement the law being
	a statutory obligation, the petitioners cannot be called upon to pay
	any amount to the respondent Nos.1 to 6 for discharging their
	statutory obligations. There is a provision in the relevant Statute
	which provides for making available members of the Police force on
	payment of requisite amount to the Government. In the guise of
	statutory obligations, the powers of the Police Officers are being
	used or sought to be used for the private parties of applying force
	on owners of small Video Cinemas to pay huge amounts to the
	petitioners ostensibly on the ground that the said amount is license
	charges. Despite the fact that the persons with whom the
	petitioners are colluding are evading excise duty and are also
	violating the provisions
	of the Cinematographic Act . It is, therefore,
	strongly urged that no reliefs prayed for in the petition can be
	granted and the petition deserves to be dismissed. After
	having heard learned Counsels appearing for the parties and after
	having considered their rival submissions and after having carefully
	gone through the pleadings made by the parties in all the four
	petitions and after having examined them in light of the statutory
	provisions and decided case law on the subject, the Court is of the
	view that the parties have approached this Court by invoking the
	extraordinary writ jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of
	the Constitution of India despite the fact that an equally
	efficacious and adequate alternative remedy is available for
	redressal of their grievances and effective machinery for
	implementation of the statutory provisions is provided under the Act
	itself and even otherwise, the reliefs sought for in the petitions
	require detailed investigation of facts and appreciation of evidence
	by the competent Court, which may not fall within the domain of this
	Court in exercise of its writ jurisdiction. The basic grievance of
	the petitioners in Special Civil Application Nos.5271 of 2001 and
	16062 of 2004 is that the respondent authorities are not exercising
	their power of seizure whenever any infringement of right is brought
	to their notice by seizing all the equipments including the
	Projectors, Television Sets, Amplifiers, speakers, Video Cassette /
	Video CD / DVD Players etc. used for infringement of copyrights by
	unauthorized public exhibition of films on Video Cassettes / public
	video CDs / DVDs without obtaining any license or written permission
	from the owner of the copyright. The petitioners further prayer in
	the petition is to treat the offence of infringement of copyright as
	a non-bailable offence instead of treating the same as bailable
	offence. Lastly, they have prayed for the declaration from this
	Court that they are not liable to pay any amount for the purpose of
	engaging the staff for conducting a raid. One more prayer is made
	in Special Civil Application No.16062 of 2004 for issuance of
	directions to the respondent authorities not to
	grant / renew the license only if the Video Theater Owners produce
	the license / certificate / written permission from the copyright
	owners. These prayers can never be granted in isolation. It
	depends upon facts of each case and considering the facts of each
	case, the competent authority can decide such issue. Instead of
	undergoing various steps which are required to be taken under the
	Act and by-passing the said procedure, the petitioners invoked the
	writ jurisdiction of this Court. The Courts have deprecated the
	practice of directly approaching the Court by seeking prevention of
	infringement of copyright and restraining illegal screening of a
	particular film, especially when the authorities are taking action
	under Sections 63 & 64 of the Copyright Act. If there is a
	contravention of the provision of the Copyright Act , then the Police
	can seize the infringing copies under Section 64 of the Act and take
	action in accordance with Section 64 . This section contemplates
	only seizure of copies which are infringing copies of the work and
	does not authorize to seize the TV & VCR and other apparatus
	and, therefore, on the proper interpretation of the Act would be
	that only if there is a contravention of provisions of Section 52-A ,
	then the action to the extent mentioned in Section 64 can be taken. 
	The Orissa High Court has taken the view in the case of Sk.
	Zaharul Islam V/s. Umakanta Khadiratna and another, 1992 CRIMINAL
	LAW JOURNAL 1869
	to the effect that the Magistrate even after taking cognizance
	cannot direct any Police Officer to effect seizure. It is the
	domain of the Police Officer alone to effect seizure. If there is
	any anomaly, it is for the Legislature to mend it. In the case of
	Surajmal
	Jain and another V/s. State of Orissa, 1989 CRIMINAL LAW JOURNAL
	1960, the
	Court held that where investigating agency seized VCR, Television,
	the screen and other apparatus along with film from accused as
	accused were exhibiting a film without having licence for exhibition
	of film which itself had not been certified for exhibition, the
	action of the investigating agency was not proper. The
	investigating agency can at best seize the uncertified film alone
	and not apparatus as the power of seizure under Section 7A of the
	Act, is limited to the extent of the seizure of the film and not the
	apparatus. Thus, what is not provided under Section 64 cannot be
	directed by the Court while exercising its writ jurisdiction and
	hence, if Section 64 permits only to the seizure by infringing
	copies and plates and does not empower the Police authorities to
	seize all the equipments including the Projectors, Television Sets,
	Amplifiers, speakers, Video Cassette / Video CD / DVD Players etc,
	the Court cannot direct them to do so. Similarly, if the particular
	offence is described as bailable offence under the Act, the Court
	cannot direct the authority to treat the said offence as
	non-bailable offence. Such a prayer can never be granted by the
	Court. The law never permits any one to go beyond or to act beyond
	the four corners of law and all actions are supposed to be taken
	within the legal framework and the parameters laid down in the Act
	governing any particular matter which is being brought to the Court
	for its decision. The
	petitioners prayer with regard to the declaration for providing
	police assistance without any payment is also wholly unjustified. 
	If the petitioners want certain police assistance for protection and
	preservation of their private interest, they are bound to make such
	payment. By giving different colour or nomenclature, they cannot
	avoid such payment. When a complaint is lodged by an aggrieved
	party before the Police authority and the Police authority on its
	own take action as per its own convenience and availability of time
	and manpower, in
	that case, such Police authority may not ask for any payment from
	the aggrieved party. But at the behest of such aggrieved party,
	immediately action is taken and that too instead of any public
	interest, the only object is to protect the private interest, such
	party is bound to make the payment for taking such police assistance
	and hence, the Court cannot issue any such general direction in this
	regard. Similarly,
	the only prayer made in Special Civil Application
	No.16062 of 2004 is also required to be considered in light of
	certain factual information and Court cannot decide this issue in
	absence of all requisite details and particulars on record. The
	authorities are empowered under the law to go into this aspect and
	they do not require any direction from this Court. If the Video
	Theater owners approach the authorities for grant or renewal of the
	license, all requisite formalities are required to be observed by
	them. Simply because the petitioners want such condition precedent
	to be incorporated, it cannot be insisted upon by the authority. 
	However, if the Statute so requires, it is bounden duty of the
	authority to insist for the compliance of such requirements. It is
	not for this Court to decide this issue in the present petition and
	it is left to the authority to consider such issue within the broad
	parameters of law and statutory provisions. This
	discussion would now lead to decide the remaining two petitions i.e.
	Special Civil Application No.12738 of 2001 and Special Civil
	Application No.17783
	of 2003. Special Civil Application No.12738 of 2001 is filed by
	Shri Rakesh K. Dua, proprietor of R. K. Video Cinema praying for
	writ of prohibition against the respondent authorities restraining
	them from taking away or seizing the VCR, VCD Screen and furniture
	and fixtures etc. including other instruments from the custody of
	the petitioner during the raid, if any, that may be carried out at
	the instance of any complainant claiming to have any copy right. 
	This aspect is at length considered by the Court while deciding
	Special Civil Application No.5271 of 2001 and hence, no further
	discussion is required. For the sake of repetition, it is only
	required to be reiterated that the authorities cannot act beyond the
	provisions contained in Section 64 of the Act and what is
	permissible therein, while effecting seizure, nothing else can be
	seized. So
	far as Special Civil Application No.17783 of 2003 is concerned, the
	prayers made therein by the petitioners Shri Nilesh J. Patel are
	more or less of civil
	nature. They are in respect of determination of the rights of the
	parties. The petitioner is seeking direction and/or declaration
	from this Court that no criminal prosecution can be launched against
	any person including the petitioner by any person unless and until
	the Producer and/or assignee of the right of the producer make
	available copy of the film in respect of which they hold right to
	the public for commercial exploitation. Launching of prosecution
	has nothing to do with the discharge of the Producer or the assignee
	of the Producer's obligation to make available the copy of the film
	in the market for commercial exploitation. Both these things are
	different and are unconnected with each other. If an infringement
	of copyright takes place, criminal prosecution may be launched
	against the violator. It may be a good defence in some cases where
	any prosecution is launched against a person for the alleged
	infringement of copyright, but it cannot be a condition precedent. 
	Even otherwise, such issues can be resolved by the appropriate forum
	by establishing their legal rights and leading necessary evidence
	to that effect before the Court of competent jurisdiction. The
	Court cannot direct the Police authority not to accept any complaint
	even if some infringement takes place by the petitioner or any other
	member of the Video Theater owners Association. Such omnibus or
	vague prayer can not generally be entertained by the Court while
	exercising the writ jurisdiction. It is open for the parties to
	urge all these contentions in support of their claims and/or defence
	before the appropriate forum. With these
	directions and observations, all the four petitions are accordingly
	disposed of. Rule and/or notice in each of the petitions is
	accordingly discharged. Interim relief, if any, in all these four
	petitions stands vacated. There shall be no order as to costs. Sd/- [K. A. PUJ, J.]		
 

 

 
	 

	 

	 

Savariya Top