For Applicant : Mr. Ishwar Jaiswal, Advocate.
For Respondent/State : Mr. Vinod Tekam, P.L.

 Hon'ble Shri Justice Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal
 Order on Board
05/09/2023 1. The accused/applicant has moved this first bail application under Section 439 of Criminal Procedure Code for releasing him on regular
 bail during trial in connection with Crime No. 76/2023 registered at
 Police Station - Hasaud, District - Sakti (C.G.) for the offence
 punishable under Sections 509(B) of IPC and Section 67 of
 Information Technology Act. 2. As per the prosecution case, on 29.05.2023, a written complaint was
 made by the complainant alleging therein that the complainant went to
 Chennai prior to four years, where she was working at Yong Brand
 Swing Company as a tailor and residing at a Hostel situated at village
 Kamlammundi (Tamilnadu) and during her training period, she met
 with the applicant and where both started chatting through mobile
 phone. Further, it is alleged that the present applicant said that he
 wanted to marry her and asked her to make a naked video call and
 the applicant wanted to see the complainant without clothes,
 thereafter, the complainant refused then the applicant started
 blackmailing her and then the complainant agreed and made a naked
 video call and the applicant recorded that video and sent the same in
 the mobile of family members of the complainant and thereby 2 committed the said offence. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant has been
 falsely implicated in the present case. He next submits that one co-
 accused has already been granted bail by the Court below, therefore,
 the present applicant may also be granted benefit of bail. He also
 submits that the applicant is in jail since 22.06.2023, charge sheet has
 been filed, and there is no likelihood of his case being decided in the
 near future, therefore, the present applicant may be released on bail. 4. On the other hand, counsel for the State opposes the bail application.
 However, he submits that the applicant has no previous criminal
 record. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the case
 diary. 6. Taking into consideration the rival submissions of the parties, nature of
 the offence, facts and circumstances of the case and further
 considering the fact that one co-accused has already been granted
 bail by the Court below, the applicant has no previous criminal record,
 and the conclusion of the trial is likely to take some time, at this stage,
 I am inclined to release the applicant on bail. Accordingly, the bail
 application is allowed. 7. Accused/applicant is directed to be released on bail on his executing a
 personal bond in the sum of Rs. 25,000/- with one local surety in the
 like sum to the satisfaction of the trial Court. Applicant is directed to
 appear before the trial Court on each and every date to be given to
 him by the said Court till final disposal of the trial. Sd/- (Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal)
 Judge

H.L. Sahu