1. The accused herein has been arraigned for trial for allegedly committing

 an offence u/s 21 of the Narcotics Drugs & Psychotropic Substances Act,

 1985 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act'), as she was found in

 possession of 10.7 grams of smack on 30.04.2012, at about 04:00 PM,

 Near Community Centre, DDA Park, H.N Din Basti, New Delhi. FACTS IN BRIEF / CASE SET UP BY THE PROSECUTION 2. The facts as alleged by the prosecution as per police report u/s 173(2) CrPC and evidence on record, are hereby recapitulated: It was alleged

 that on 30.04.2012, at about 04:00 PM near Community Centre, DDA FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 1/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 3. On 22.12.2016, charge under section U/s 21 NDPS Act was framed qua

 the accused, to which she pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. EVIDENCE LED BY PROSECUTION 4. In the trial, the prosecution in support of its case, examined twelve

 witnesses, the succinct testimonies whereof are as follows: 5. PW-1 SI Ramesh Pal deposed that on 30.04.2012, he was posted as

 ASI at PS H. N. Din and his duty hours were 05:00 pm to 01:00 am

 (night) as Duty Officer. He deposed that Ct. Satish brought a rukka to

 him at about 06:50 pm sent by SI Ajay Kumar. He made endorsement

 on the said rukka Ex.PW1/A at point-A and handed over same to the

 computer operator for recording of FIR. He recorded FIR on the basis

 of said rukka and copy of computerized FIR is Ex.PW1/B bearing his

 signature at point-A (OSR). After registration of FIR, he handed over

 computerized FIR and rukka to Ct. Satish for delivering the same to the

 IO/SI Kuldeep Singh for further investigation. 6. PW-2 SI Dinesh Kumar deposed that on 05.07.2012, he was posted as FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 2/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: SI in PS H. N. Din. On that day, further investigation of this case was

 entrusted to him by the order of SHO. He received the FSL Report in

 this case and prepared the charge sheet against the accused, after

 completion of file in all respect, he filed the chargesheet in the Court,

 as per rules. 7. PW-3.HC Anand Kumar deposed that on 30.04.2012, he was posted

 as Constable in PS H. N. Din. On that day, he alongwith Ct. Satish was

 patrolling in the area when a secret informer met them at about 4 pm

 and informed that one lady was selling smack at Lodhi Road, near

 DDA Park. They passed this information to DO and in pursuance

 thereof, SI Ajay alongwith L/Ct. Roshini reached at the spot. SI

 confirmed the secret information from the secret informer and after

 satisfying himself, he requested some passersby to join the raiding

 party after informing them about the aforesaid secret information but

 all refused and went away citing their inability without even disclosing

 their names and address. It was deposed that thereafter, without wasting

 any further time, SI Ajay organized a Raiding party comprising he, Ct.

 Satish, L/Ct. Roshini and secret informer and they all reached near the

 wall of DDA Park Lodhi Road where the secret informer pointed out

 towards a lady being the same lady regarding whom he had given the

 said information who was sitting in the DDA Park near the wall of

 Community Center and after pointing out towards her and then left. FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 3/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 8. PW-4 Sh. Adesh Kumar deposed he was working as Senior Scientific

 Officer Chemistry in FSL, Rohini since 2011. Before that he was

 working as Scientific Assistant Chemistry and Senior Scientific

 Assistant Chemistry in FSL, Delhi. He has possessed the experience of

 about 23 years in this field and during his this tenure he had examined

 more than 10,000 exhibits of chemistry and had deposed in various

 Courts of Law as an expert witness. In the present case two sealed cloth

 parcels out of which one parcel no. S1 was duly sealed with two seals

 of AK and two seals of SKIIIS and the other parcel No. S-3 was sealed

 with four seals of AK and four seals of SKIIIS were received in their

 office on 29.05.2012 through Ct. Devender alongwith original

 forwarding letter. The copy of forwarding letter was taken on record

 which was proved as Ex. PA (OSR). The seals on the exhibit were FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 6/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 9. PW-5 HC Vasant Kumar deposed that he was working as SO to ACP

 New Friends Colony. He had brought the summoned record of Diary FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 7/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 10. PW-6 Sh. Data Ram (Retd. ACP) deposed that on 01.05.2012 he

 was posted as ACP at PS NFC. On that day his Reader HC Willson put

 up before him a special report U/s 57 NDPS Act sent by SI Kuldeep

 Kumar and forwarded by then SHO PS H.N.Din Insp. Sunil Kumar

 which was already proved Ex.P-B which was perused by him on the

 same day and he put his endorsement as seen and his signatures at

 portion A encircled with red ink. 11. PW-7 ASI Willson John, deposed that on 01.05.2012 he was posted as

 HC and working as Reader to ACP New Friends Colony, Sh. Data

 Ram. On that day Dak Rider produced to him special report U/s 57

 NDPS Act already exhibited as Ex.P-B sent by SI Kuldeep and

 forwarded by SHO PS H.N.Din which he put before ACP Sh.Data Ram

 who perused the same and put his endorsement and signatures at

 portion A. Thereafter, he diarised said letter vide Diary No.3435 Dt. FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 8/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 12.PW-8 Ct. Devender Kumar deposed that on 29.5.2012 he was posted

 as Constable at PS, HN Din. On that day, on the instruction of the IO,

 he has taken the case property of this case from MHC/M i.e. two sealed

 pullandas sealed with seal of AK and SKIIIS vide RC whose number he

 did not remember then. He deposited the pullandas in FSL Rohini on

 the same day in intact condition. On return to the PS, he deposited the

 acknowledgement receipt thereof with the MHC/M. 13.PW-9 Inspector Kuldeep Kumar deposed that on 30.04.2012, he was

 posted as SI at PS Hazrat Nizamuddin. On that day, after registration of

 the FIR of the present case, the investigation was assigned to him. He

 then reached at the spot i.e. DDA Park, Lodhi Road, Basti Nizamuddin.

 At the spot, SI Ajay, W/Ct. Roshni alongwith beat staff and one lady

 met there. SI Ajay apprised him about the recovery of the smack from

 the said lady and the proceedings conducted by him. SI Ajay handed

 over him all the documents prepared by him and the said raiding,

 whose name revealed after inquiry as Anwari Begum. In the presence

 of lady constable Roshni, he made inquiry from accused and arrested

 her in this case vide her arrest memo Ex. PW 9/A. He further deposed

 that at his instance, lady Constable. conducted the personal search of

 accused and recovered one original notice u/s 50 NDPS Act. He FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 9/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 14.PW-10 HC. Roshni deposed that on 30.04.2012, she was posted at PS

 H.N Din. On that day she alongwith SI Ajay Kumar reached at DDA

 park near Lodhi Road where Ct Satish and Ct Anand met and they

 produce one secret informer. SI Ajay made inquiry from the informer

 and also asked some passers-by to join the ready party but none could

 prepare. When they reached near the wall of park the secret informer

 pointed out one lady and told that she was selling smack. They

 apprehended the said lady, whose name revealed after inquiry as

 Anwari Begum @ Annu. She further deposed that IO apprised the

 accused about the secret information and explained her legal rights

 regarding her search. The IO told the accused that in pursuance of the

 secret information, her search was to be taken and the said search could FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 10/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 15. PW-10 Inspector Ajay Kumar(Inadvertently also listed as PW-10

 during deposition dated 16.03.2023) deposed that on 30.04.2012 he

 was posted as SI at PS H.N Din. On that day, an information was

 received by duty officer regarding the selling of smack by a lady in the

 area of DDA park Nizamuddin. DD no. 14 A vide Ex. Ex.PW12/B

 was recorded and the same was entrusted upon him by the SHO. In

 pursuance of the said DD he alongwith W/Ct Roshni reached the spot at

 DDA Park. He also brought the IO Kit. At the spot, Ct Satish and Ct

 Anand met and they produced secret informer. It was deposed that he

 made inquiry from the informer. He after having satisfaction asked

 some passersby to join raiding party but they did not agree and went

 away after disclosing their reasonable excuses. Thereafter, he alongwith FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 12/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 16.PW­11 ASI Satish deposed that On 30.04.2012, he was posted at

 Police Station Hazrat Nizamuddin. On that day, he alongwith Ct. Anand

 were on patrolling duty in the area of DDA Park, Nizamuddin Basti.

 During the patrolling at around 03:00/03:30 PM, a secret informer met

 and told them that one lady was selling smack near the wall of

 community centre, Nizamuddin Basti. They conveyed this information

 to police station H. N. Din through duty officer and in pursuance of

 which, SI Ajay came to the place where they were present alongwith

 one lady constable. They apprised SI Ajay about the secret information.

 Thereafter, SI Ajay constituted a raiding party comprising all of them.

 He also asked some passersby to join the raiding party but none could

 be prepared. Thereafter, they all alongwith the secret informer reached

 at the disclosed place i.e. near the wall of the community centre and

 there the secret informer pointed out a lady about whom he gave the

 secret information. The said lady was apprehended and her name was

 revealed after inquiry as Anwari Begum. It was further deposed that SI

 Ajay told the said lady about the secret information and apprised her FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 15/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 17.PW-12 Inspector Sunil Kumar deposed that on 30.04.2012, he was

 posted as SHO at PS Hazrat Nizamuddin. On that day at about 04:00

 PM, Duty Officer received a telephonic call vide DD No. 14-A

 regarding selling of smack in DDA Park, Nizamuddin. This information

 was assigned to SI Ajay Kumar and he was directed to conduct raid.

 Accordingly, he alongwith staff including W/Ct. Roshni, reached the

 spot. After sometime, SI Ajay told him on telephone that he with the

 help of W/Ct. Roshni, apprehended one lady and recovered smack from

 her and the proceedings were going on. At about 06:15 PM, he also

 reached the spot at DDA park near Community Center, Hazrat

 Nizamuddin. At the spot, SI Ajay found alongwith accused namely

 Anwari Begum as told by her at the spot. He made the inquiry from FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 17/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 18. The relevancy of the witnesses examined are succinctly delineated in

 the following tabular form: other prosecution witnesses, leading

 to the arrest of the accused, and

 effected recoveries from her on

 30.04.2012. 10 HC Roshni She was a part of the raiding team

 which apprehended the accused and

 effected recoveries of contraband

 item from her on 30.04.2012. 10 Inspector Ajay Kumar He was the complainant, who

 (Inadvertently also received secret information, and took

 listed as PW-10 necessary steps leading to arrest of

 during deposition the accused and effected recoveries FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 20/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 11 ASI Satish He was the informant in the case

 and a part of the raiding team which

 apprehended the accused and

 effected recoveries of contraband

 items from her on 30.04.2012. 12 Inspector Sunil Kumar He was posted as SHO,PS H.N Din

 and received sealed articles, carbon

 copy of seizure memo and FSL form

 from PW­10 SI Ajay Kumar on

 which he affixed his seal of SKIIIS

 deposited the same in the Malkhana

 after making entry in Registration

 no. 19 in compliance of Section 55 of the NDPS Act. STATEMENT OF ACCUSED 19.Accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.PC. In his defence, she averred that

 witnesses have deposed falsely against her in order to prove the false

 case of the police and that they are interested witnesses. She deposed that

 she lives in Jhuggi No. 229 at Nizamuddin Area. She is a widow. Her

 neighbour namely Sarafat wanted to grab her jhuggi and in connivance

 of police officials, they implicated her in this false and fabricated case. FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 21/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 20.Sh. Wasi-Ur-Rahman, Ld. Public Prosecutor for the State submitted that

 all the witnesses have supported the case of prosecution. It was

 submitted that as per the case of prosecution on the basis of secret

 information, received by the Beat Officer a DD No. 14A was recorded

 which is Ex.12/B and the said information was conveyed to senior .

 Moreover, as per the said DD, the SHO authorised SI Ajay Kumar PW- 10. 21. It was submitted that the Section of 42 of NDPS Act has been complied

 properly in this case. Although, there is no documentary proof of

 sending the DD No. 14 A to ACP but the information was conveyed

 telephonically to the ACP as deposed by the SHO Inspector Sunil

 Kumar, ie PW12. Ld. Addl PP for State further submitted that it is

 pertinent to mention here that the report u/s 57 NDPS Act ie Ex. PB

 was sent to ACP, it clearly reflects that the DD No.14 A would have

 been sent to him but somehow it is not reflected on record. 22. Ld. Addl PP for State also submitted that therefore, substantial FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 22/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 23. It was further submitted that the compliance of Section 50 NDPS Act

 has also been done and for this purpose the prosecution is relying upon

 the documents ie Original Notice u/s 50 NDPS Act which is Ex.

 PW9/D which was recovered from the possession of accused at the

 time of his arrest and the carbon copy of said notice Ex.PW3/C

 alongwith the reply of accused ie EX.PW3/D. In this regard, it was

 submitted that the document Ex.PW10/A has been inadvertently

 exhibited in the evidence of PW10 SI Ajay (now Inspector). The said

 document is liable to be ignored. It was also contended by Ld. Addl PP

 for State that the substance which was recovered from the possession of

 accused has been analyzed in the FSL and it was found to be Heroine. 24. The compliance of Section 55 NDPS Act has also been done by the

 SHO Sunil Kumar and apart from his testimony, it reflects from the

 relevant copy of Register no.19 which is Ex.PW12/A. All the relevant

 material prosecution witnesses have been examined and cumulatively

 they have proved the case of prosecution beyond reasonable doubt that

 10.7 gram of smack was recovered from the possession of accused FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 23/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: Roshni, 65 small packets (pudiyas) were recovered whereas the

 MHC(M) produced 160 pudiyas in Court. It was further submitted that

 those 160 pudiyas were also having brown colour mark on them, and

 thereby the stance of prosecution is not clear as to whether there was 60

 pudiyas or 160 pudiyas. 30. It was further submitted that seizure memo is having FIR No.142/2012

 which has been prepared by first IO before registration of the FIR, FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 25/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 31. Ld Counsel for accused thus submitted that the accused ought to be FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 26/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 32.The manner in which the accused was apprehended and the manner in

 which recoveries have been effected from him has been clearly

 elucidated by the prosecution witnesses. It was brought to the fore that

 PW-3 HC Anand Kumar and PW-11 ASI Satish were on patrolling duty

 when a secret informer informed them on 30.04.2012, at about 3:30 PM

 that one lady was selling smack near the wall of the Community Centre,

 Nizamuddin Basti, Delhi. Both of them conveyed this information to the

 Duty Officer at police Station H.N Din whereafter PW-10 Inspector Ajay

 Kumar was deputed to investigate the matter. As is apparent from the

 testimony of PW-3 Hc Anand Kumar, PW-11 ASI Satish and PW-10

 Inspector Ajay Kumar, PW-10 formed a raiding party, and as his instance

 PW-10 HC Roshni apprehended the accused Anwari Begum. Thereafter,

 PW-10 Inspector Ajay Kumar gave a notice u/s 50 NDPS Act to the

 accused. The police witnesses further deposed that PW-9 Inspector

 Kuldeep Kumar arrested the accused vide Ex.PW9/A and prepared the

 personal search memo Ex.PW9/B. PW-9 proved the abovesaid

 documents in court by identifying the signatures thereon at point A on

 both the documents. FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 27/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 33.Ld. Counsel for accused submitted that there was total non compliance

 of Section 42 NDPS Act. It was further submitted that secret

 information, which was reduced in writing, was not shared with superior

 officers ie ACP. Ld. Counsel further submitted that there were no

 documents on record which would prove the factum of sharing of secret

 information with ACP. Ld counsel also contended that even if a

 telephonic call was made in this respect, that also ought to have been

 reduced in the form of writing thereafter. To substantiate his claim Ld.

 Counsel placed reliance on Boota Singh (supra), wherein the Court

 observed as thus: 34.Per contra, Ld Addl PP for State submitted that there has been substantial

 compliance of Section 42 of NDPS Act. It was submitted that PW-12

 Inspector Sunil Kumar had categorically deposed that he had conveyed

 the secret information reduced in writing ie DD no. 14 A to ACP

 telephonically. It was further submitted that the accused has not shown

 as to what prejudice has been caused to her for non compliance of Section 42 NDPS Act. Ld. Addl PP for State further submitted that the

 factum of compliance of 57 NDPS Act established by the prosecution,

 also shows that there was compliance of Section 42 NDPS Act inasmuch

 as there can be no compliance of Section 57 of NDPS Act unless and

 until there is compliance of Section 42 NDPS Act. To substantiate his

 submissions Ld. Addl PP for State place reliance on the following

 extracts of Bahadur Singh (supra) wherein it was held as thus: compliance with the provisions of Section 42 may not vitiate
 the trial if it did not cause any prejudice to the accused.
 Furthermore, whether there is adequate compliance with Section 42 or not is a question of fact to be decided in each
 case." 35. Ld. Addl PP for State further contended that Ld. Counsel for accused

 has made a wrong submission that Section 42 has not been complied

 with, as DD No. 14 A ie Ex.PW12/B demonstrates that the secret

 information was reduced in writing. 36.Thus, the foremost defence of the accused is that there was non

 compliance of mandatory provisions viz. Section 42 of the NDPS Act.

 However, it is of utmost significance to note that the case of the

 prosecution is that recovery of heroine was made from the accused near

 wall of community centre in the area of DDA Park, Nizamuddin Basti.

 Thus, this is a case where recovery has been made at a public place and

 not from any building, conveyance or enclosed place. Therefore, Section

 43 of the NDPS Act would be attracted in the facts and circumstances of

 the present case, and not Section 41 or 42 of the Act. In this context, it

 would be useful to refer to Mohan Lal V State of Rajasthan (2015) 6 FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 30/51 Digitally signed by ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 37. Even the Constitutional Bench judgment of Karnail Singh Vs. State of

 Haryana (2009) 8 SCC 539, it was laid down as thus: 38.Thus, the contention of Ld Counsel for the accused cannot be

 countenanced on this score alone. However, arguendo if it is considered

 that provisions of Section 42 are applicable, even then the conditions

 thereof have been duly complied with. 39. The secret information was reduced in writing in the form of DD no.

 14A dated 30.04.2012 ie Ex PW12/B. Thus, the requirement of Section FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 31/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 40. The above makes it explicit that there was compliance of the relevant

 provisions of law inasmuch as the ACP was informed telephonically.

 Reliance in this regard can be had to Bahadur Singh (supra) where

 information sent via wireless was held to be substantial compliance of Section 42 of NDPS Act. C. COMPLIANCE OF SECTION 55 OF THE NDPS ACT BY THE SHO 41.At this juncture, it would be apt to refer to Section 55 of the NDPS Act: 42. In the present case,Inspector Sunil Kumar Officer In charge of PS H.N

 Din was examined as PW-12. He categorically deposed that on FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 32/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 43. Thus, as is evident from the above deposition, the prosecution evidence

 clearly discloses that the seized articles were produced before officer in

 charge of the Police Station, that he had put his seal over those articles

 and thereafter they were sent for safe custody. The evidence also

 discloses that the seized articles were kept in the Malkhana and even FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 33/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 44.It would be apposite to refer to Section 57 of the Act, which is

 reproduced hereunder: 45.The legislative intent behind Section 57 of the Act, has been delved upon

 in Megha Ram v State of Rajasthan 1997 Cri LJ 3091 in the

 following words: 46.PW- 9 Inspector Kuldeep Kumar had deposed that he had prepared the

 report u/s 57 NDPS Act regarding arrest of accused and other

 proceedings. He proved the report as Ex.P-B bearing his signatures at

 point B. This witness had deposed that the Ex.P-B was sent to ACP

 through the SHO. 47. Further, PW-12 Inspector Sunil Kumar, the SHO acknowledged the

 receipt of information/report u/s 57 NDPS Act from PW-9 SI Kuldeep

 Kumar. He deposed that on 01.05.2014, the 2nd IO SI Kuldeep Kumar

 had prepared report u/s 57 NDPS Act viz Ex. P-B, and PW-12 Inspector

 Sunil Kumar forwarded the said report to the ACP concerned after

 endorsing his signatures at point X. Thus, both the above witnesses

 proved the factum sending of report u/s 57 NDPS Act to their immediate

 superior. 48. The receipt of the above report in the office of ACP concerned, was

 proved by three witnesses namely PW-5 HC Vasant Kumar, SO to

 ACP, PW-7 ASI Wilson John, who was the Reader to the ACP and PW- FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 35/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: P-A. To corroborate his version, the prosecution examined the Reader

 to the ACP ASI Wilson John as PW-7. He categorically deposed that on

 01.05.2012, when he was working as Reader to ACP, NFC, the special

 report u/s 57 of NDPS Act was received by him, and which he further

 put up before the ACP Sh. Data Ram, who perused the same and put

 his endorsement and signatures at portion A. This witness further

 proved the entry in this regard in the Dak register ie Diary no 3435

 dated 01.05.2012 viz Ex. P-A. Both these witnesses denied that the

 entries were ante dated or ante time to establish the case of prosecution. 49. Significantly, the prosecution examined the ACP as PW-6. PW-6

 Sh.Data Ram categorically deposed that on 01.05.2012, he was posted

 as ACP, PS NFC and the special report u/s 57 NDPS Act was put up

 before him by his Reader HC Wilson John. He proved the report u/s 57 NDPS Act as Ex.P-B and deposed that he put his endorsement as seen

 and signatures at portion A encircled with red ink on the said document

 after perusing the same on the same day. Thus, there was in toto

 compliance of Section 57 NDPS Act. Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: 50.Ld Counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution version is

 suspect inasmuch as there is not one but two carbon copies of notice u/s

 50 of NDPS Act alongwith the original notice of u/s 50 NDPS Act. Ld.

 Counsel for accused submitted that there is an original notice u/s 50 NDPS Act ie Ex. PW9/D alongwith two carbon copies thereof ie

 Ex.PW3/C and PW10/A. It was further submitted that writing on the

 carbon copy ie PW10/A is different from the carbon copy Ex. PW3/C

 thereby leading to the inference that manipulation has been done and that

 there has been non compliance of Section 50 NDPS Act. Ld. Counsel for

 accused further contended that in Ex.PW 3/C, the FIR No and year has

 been written belatedly thereby leading to an inference that a false case

 has been foisted upon accused. 51.Per contra, Ld. Addl PP for State contended that State is not relying on

 Ex.PW10/A as there is sufficient evidence on record regarding

 compliance of Section 50 NDPS Act in the form of original notice u/s 50 of NDPS Act ie Ex.PW9/D and carbon copy thereof ie Ex.PW3/C. It was

 further contended that a careful perusal of Ex.PW3/C would reveal that

 FIR No. has been endorsed there on in pen ie after preparation of the

 carbon copy, indicating that the FIR was written after the notice was

 served. 52.During the course of arguments, Ld. Counsel for accused vehemently FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 37/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 53.To adjudicate this issue, it would be profitable to refer to Section 50 of

 the Act, which reads as thus: 54.The safeguards mentioned in Section 50 are intended to serve a dual

 purpose- to protect a person against false accusation and frivolous

 charges as also to lend credibility to the search and seizure conducted by

 an empowered officer. 55.At this juncture,to put to rest the issue of endorsing FIR Number on the

 spot memos it would be apt to peruse the following extracts of Ramesh

 Kumar Rajput Vs State (NCT of Delhi ) 2008 SCC Online Del 1658

 wherein it was observed as thus: 56. In Bilal Ahmed Vs State 2011 SCC Online Del 165, the Court laid

 down as thus: 57.During the course of arguments,Ld. Addl PP fort State had contended

 that the State was placing reliance primarily on original notice u/s 50 NDPS Act Ex.PW9/D and its carbon copy Ex.PW3/C. A perusal of

 testimony of PW-10 Hc Roshni would reveal that Pw-3/C bore her

 signatures at point B and the reply of the accused was Ex.PW3/D

 wherein she refused to avail her legal rights. PW-10 Inspector Ajay

 Kumar also deposed that the accused was apprised about her legal rights

 that her search could be taken in the presence of a Gazetted Officer of a

 Magistrate, if she so desired. However, she refused to avail her legal

 rights. No questions were asked to the police witnesses with respect to

 non service of notice u/s 50 NDPS Act barring a suggestion that it was

 not served. Thus, it cannot be gainsaid that there was compliance of Section 50 NDPS Act. F. SAMPLING PROCEDURE 58. Ld. Counsel for accused submitted that as per the chargesheet, as per the

 prosecution witnesses namely PW Ajit, PW­ Anand and PW­ Roshni, 65 FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 40/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 59.Ld. Addl PP for State vociferously refuted these assertions and had

 contended that it has no where come on record that 160 pudiya/small

 packets were having brown colour mark on them. Further, Ld. Addl PP

 for State explained that the presence of these 160 pudiays packets has

 been clarified to the affect that they were not packets but slips of paper 60. The contentions of Ld. Counsel for accused are totally off the record.

 There is nothing on record to substantiate the claim that there were 160

 pudiyas having brown colour mark on them. In this regard, it would be

 pertinent to peruse the testimony of PW-10 Inspector Ajay Kumar, who

 deposed as thus. 61. PW-10 Inspector Ajay Kumar further deposed that: 62. Next, Ld. Counsel for accused submitted that the alleged recovery was

 effected on 30.04.2012 whereas as per receipt issued by FSL, the date

 is 29.05.2012. It was contended that as per standing order 1/88 issued

 by NCB the sample should have been sent to FSL within 72 hours from

 the alleged recovery of contraband. Thus, there is delay of about 30

 days in sending sample to FSL, hence tampering in the sample cannot

 be ruled out and this is fatal to the case of prosecution. 63. Per contra Ld. Addl PP for State submitted that these guidelines are not

 mandatory and are not applicable to Delhi Police. 64. Qua the above submissions of Ld. Counsel for the accused, it is trite that

 delay in sending samples to the FSL would not be fatal to the case of the

 prosecution. 65. In this context, it would be prudent to refer to the following extracts of Jarnail Singh v. State of Punjab (2011) 3 SCC 521. 66.In view of the above verdict, the objections of Ld Counsel for the

 accused qua delay in sending samples, cannot be countenanced

 inasmuch as there is cogent evidence already on record pointing out to

 recovery and seizure of contraband from the accused. 67. Lastly, Ld. Counsel for accused submitted that all the contraband items

 in the pudiyas were mixed, and from them the sample was drawn. Thus,

 Ld. Counsel submitted that this was in total violation of law laid down

 in Laxman Thakur (supra) wherein it has been mentioned that the

 sample should have been taken from each packet. It was further

 submitted that in the examination in chief of PW-10 Inspector Ajay

 Kumar, it has been elicited that he did not carry field testing kit and nor

 was sample taken from each packets. Thus, it was submitted that the

 alleged recovery is doubtful. FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 43/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 68. Per contra, Ld. Addl PP for State further submitted that 65 small packets

 were recovered from the possession of accused which were less than 01

 gram each. Ld. Addl PP for State highlighted the fact that total weight of

 entire substance was 10.7 gram and therefore it would be well nigh

 impossible to take out samples from each pudiya, which would be

 containing about 0.16 grams. It was further submitted that all the pudiyas

 were mixed because similar substance was found in each of the pudiyas. 69. In this regard, it would be apt to peruse the following principles laid

 down in Charlse Howel (supra)

 "7.4 The aforementioned Standing Order purports to have
 been issued under Section 52A of the Act. On the issue of
 whether the Standing Order is binding, or not, the
 Supreme Court held, in Khet Singh v. U.O.I. , (2002) 4
 SCC 380, thus (in para 10 of the report): In the same decision, the Supreme Court, examining the
 issue of the consequence of violation of such procedural
 guidelines, ruled as under (in para 16 of the report): 7.5 The following principles may be culled out, from this
 pronouncement: 70.In the present case, Ld. Counsel for the accused has not been able to

 establish that any serious prejudice has been caused to the accused by

 mixing of the samples. Further, this court concurs with the submissions

 of Ld. Addl PP for State that it would be well nigh impossible to take

 samples from each and every pudiya as the contraband item contained

 therein was about 0.16 grams. Moreover, it has been laid down in Sumit

 Tomar (supra)

 "11 The next contention, according to the learned Senior
 Counsel for the appellant, is that the prosecution
 has committed an irregularity by mixing up the
 contraband found in the bags and taking samples
 thereafter. We find no substance in the said FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 45/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 12. It is true that Section 15 of the NDPS Act speaks about
 punishment for contravention in relation to poppy
 straw. As per sub-section (a) where the contravention
 involves small quantity, the rigorous imprisonment may
 extend to six months or with fine which may extend to
 ten thousand rupees or with both whereas under sub-
 section (b) where the contravention involves quantity
 lesser than commercial quantity but greater than small
 quantity, rigorous imprisonment may extend to 10
 years and with fine which may extend to one lakh
 rupees. Sub-section (c) provides that where the
 contravention involves commercial quantity, the
 rigorous imprisonment shall not be less than 10 years
 but which may extend to 20 years and shall also be
 liable to fine which shall not be less than one lakh
 rupees but which may extend to two lakh rupees.
 Merely because different punishments have been
 prescribed depending on the quantity of contraband, we
 are satisfied that by mixing the said two bags, the same
 has not caused any prejudice to the appellant. Even
 after taking two samples of 250 gm each, the quantity
 measured comes to 69.50 kg which is more than
 commercial quantity (small quantity 1000
 gm/commercial quantity 50 kg and above). In view of
 the same, the contention that the police should have
 taken two samples each from the two bags without
 mixing is liable to be rejected. G. DEPOSIT OF EXHIBITS IN FSL FOR FORENSIC EXAMINATION AND FSL

 REPORT. 71.The sanctity of chain of custody qua deposit of exhibits in FSL from the

 Malkhana, was also duly proved by the prosecution. PW-8 Ct Devender

 Kumar, on the instructions of the IO had taken the case property from

 MHC(M) ie two sealed pullandas with the seal of AK and SKIIIS vide FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 46/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 Date: 72.The testimony of the above witness finds corroboration from a perusal of

 the deposition of PW-4 Sh Adesh Kumar, who deposed that two cloth

 parcels out of which one parcel S1 was duly sealed with two seals of AK

 and two seals of SKIIIS, and other parcel number S3 was sealed with

 four seals of AK and four seal of SKIIIS were received in their office on

 29.05.2012 through Ct Devender Kumar alongwith original forwarding

 letter. The witness deposed that the above exhibits and documents were

 received in their office vide case acceptance memo and the said original

 memo was taken on record as Ex. P-B. A perusal of the said case

 acceptance memo Ex.P-B reveals that the name of PW- 8 Ct Devender

 Kumar as the name of authorised messenger. 73.The FSL report Ex. PW4/A was proved by Sh Adesh Kumar, Senior

 Scientific Officer, Chemistry, FSL Rohini, who deposed to the effect of

 receiving the case property alongwith original forwarding letter. This

 witness categorically deposed that he had examined the above exhibits

 from 08.06.2012 to 18.06.2012. He averred that upon opening of parcel

 S1, it was found containing orange brown coloured powdery substance

 weighing approximately 4.139 grams. He further unequivocally deposed

 as thus: 3' positive test for the presence of Diacetylmorphine, 6-
 Monoacetylmorphine, Caffeine, Alprazolam,
 Phenobarbitone and Paracetamol. (ii) Exhibit 'S-1' was
 found to contain Diacetylmorphine 3.5%, Caffeine
 19.8%, Alprazolam 18.7%, Phenobarbitone 0.6% and
 Paracetamol 52.5%." 74. Thus, this witness proved that the contraband item was heroine. Nothing

 could be elicited to dispute his competence or expertise. This witness had

 brought to the fore that he possessed an experience of about 23 years and

 had examined more than 10,000 exhibits of chemistry and deposed in

 various courts of law as an expert witness. Merely because he could not

 depose qua the factum of weight of the paper separately, his testimony

 qua the factum of contraband items being heroine, cannot be discarded. 75.Thus, the factum of contraband item being heroine, was cogently FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 48/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL
 ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: 76.It was contended by the State that the accused did not avail the

 opportunity to explain the circumstances appearing in the evidence

 against her, and only put forth a mere bare denial or replied to the

 accusations by merely stating that 'it is incorrect'. She could not explain

 recovery of contraband items from her. The accused did not even put

 forth a plea of alibi. She only averred that her neighbour namely Sarafat

 wanted to grab her jhuggi and implicated her in this case in connivance

 of the police officials. 77. There is a presumption u/s 54 of the NDPS Act which lays down that in

 trials under the NDPS Act , it may be presumed that the accused has

 committed an offence, unless and until the contrary is proved. The

 expression' unless and until the contrary is proved', clearly imposes the

 burden of proving that possession of prohibited substance is legal, or that

 she was not so found in possession, is on the accused herself. In this

 case, neither the presumption could be rebutted, nor could the accused

 explain the circumstances appearing in evidence against her. 78. Furthermore, nothing could be elicited in the testimony of the

 prosecution witnesses, and nothing therein could be controverted by the

 accused. The veracity of the testimony of the witnesses was cogent and FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 49/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL
 Date: CONCLUSION 79. Ergo, in view of the reasons hereinabove discussed in extenso, this

 Court is of the considered view that the prosecution has proved beyond

 reasonable doubt that the accused Anwari Begum @ Annu was found in

 possession of 10.7 grams near wall of Community Centre, DDA

 Park,Nizamuddin Basti, Delhi, on 30.4.2012 at around 04:00 PM and

 is therefore convicted for the offence punishable u/s 21(b) of the

 NDPS Act. 80. Further, in consonance with the provisions of Section 40 of the NDPS FIR No.142/2012 State Vs. Anwari Begum @ Annu Page No. 50/51 Digitally
 signed by
 ARUL ARUL VARMA
 VARMA Date: