A.K. SIKRI, J. Leave granted. Signature Not Verified Introduction: Charanjeet Kaur Date: 2015.01.09 16:59:12 IST Reason: Union of India & Ors.1. The Court allowed the appeal as well as

 the writ petition, holding that spectrum licences were illegally

 granted to the beneficiaries at the cost of the nation. The Court

 accordingly cancelled the licences granted to the private

 respondents on or after 10.01.2008 and issued certain directions

 for grant of fresh licences and allocation of spectrum in 2G Band.

 It was also specifically clarified that the observations in the said

 judgment would not, in any manner, affect the pending

 investigation by the CBI, Directorate of Enforcement and other

 agencies or cause prejudice to those who are facing prosecution

 in the cases registered by the CBI or who may face prosecution

 on the basis of charge-sheet(s) which may be filed by the CBI in

 future. The Court also made it clear that the Special Judge, CBI

 would decide the matter uninfluenced by the judgment dated

 February 02, 2012. Thereafter, order dated 11.04.2011 was

 passed in that very appeal, making its intention manifest that this

 Court would be monitoring the investigation by CBI in larger

 public interest. Special Court was set up for trial of the 2G case 1 (2012) 3 SCC 1 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 4 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 and a Senior Advocate was nominated as the Special Public

 Prosecutor by the Court itself, who also agreed with his

 appointment in that capacity. The Court also made it clear that no

 other Court would stay or impede trial conducted by the Special

 Court and the aggrieved person could approach this Court for any

 grievance. In the present proceedings, we are not concerned

 with the subject matter of the said trial. However, the aforesaid

 narrative became necessary to point out that present proceedings

 triggered as a result of order dated 16.12.2010 vide which the

 Court directed CBI to register a case and conduct the inquiry in

 connection with alleged irregularities in grant of licences from

 2001 to 2006-2007 as well. Further, as would be noticed later,

 the investigation pertaining to this period also is being monitored

 by the Supreme Court and the learned counsel for all the parties

 were at ad idem that challenge to the impugned order is to be

 entertained by this Court only under Article 136 of the

 Constitution, though while entertaining these appeals, the Court

 would bear in mind the parameters of Section 482 of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “the Code”).

 The Instant Proceedings : Factual Narration 6. The CBI registered another RC being RC DAI 2011 A 0024 on Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 5 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 17th November, 2011 with regard to alleged irregularities in grant

 of additional spectrum in the year 2002 during the tenure of late

 Shri Pramod Mahajan as Minister of Communications. In this RC,

 apart from Shri Pramod Mahajan, others who were named were

 Mr. Shyamal Ghosh, the then Secretary (Telecom), Mr. J.R.

 Gupta, the then Deputy Director General (VAS) and three Cellular

 Companies viz. M/s Bharti Cellular Limited, M/s Hutchison Max

 Telecom (P) Limited and M/s Sterling Cellular Limited. After

 registering the said RC, the CBI started investigation into the

 allegations contained therein. As already pointed out above,

 since the matter was being monitored by this Court, progress

 reports of investigation were filed from time to time in sealed

 envelopes. On 29th November, 2012, after perusing certain

 documents presented in a sealed cover, this Court directed the

 CBI to take action in accordance with the views expressed by it

 on the issue of prosecution of public servants and the companies

 in connection with the said case. The precise nature of this order

 can be seen from the actual language thereof which is

 reproduced hereunder: 7. On completion of the investigation, charge-sheet was filed by the

 CBI in the Court of Shri O.P. Saini, the learned Special Judge, on

 21st December, 2012. 8. Before proceeding further, it would be prudent to mention in brief

 the case set up by the CBI in the charge-sheet to have the flavour

 of the prosecution case. Though we are not much concerned

 about the merits of the allegations in these proceedings, a brief

 account thereof will facilitate in understanding the background

 leading to the roping in of the appellants in these proceedings.

 During monitoring of the investigation of CBI Case No.

 RC-DAI-2009-A-0045 (2G Spectrum Case), this Court vide its

 order dated 16.12.2010 directed CBI to investigate the

 irregularities committed in the grant of licences from 2001 to 2007 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 7 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 with partial emphasis on the loss caused to the public exchequer

 and corresponding gain to the Licensees/Service Providers.

 Accordingly, in compliance to the said order, a Preliminary

 Enquiry vide No. PE-DAI-2011-A-0001 was registered on

 04.01.2011 at CBI, ACB, New Delhi. During inquiry of the said

 PE, it was learnt from reliable sources that vide a decision dated

 31.01.2002 of the then MoC&IT, on the recommendation of

 certain DoT officers, the allocation of additional spectrum beyond

 6.2 MHz upto 10 MHz (paired) was approved wherein only 1%

 additional revenue share was charged thereby causing revenue

 loss to Government exchequer. 9. As pointed above, on the basis of the outcome of the aforesaid

 inquiry, a regular case was registered on 17.11.2011 for the

 offences punishable under Sections 120-B IPC r/w 13 (2) and 13

 (1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (for short, ' PC

 Act '). It was against Mr. Shyamal Ghosh, Mr. J.R. Gupta and the

 three Cellular Companies, names whereof have already been

 mentioned above. The main allegation is that additional spectrum

 beyond 6.2 MHz upto 10 MHz (paired) was approved at an

 additional revenue share at the rate of 1% only, meaning thereby

 the said additional revenue should have been at a higher rate. As

 per the investigation, Cellular Operators Association of India Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 8 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 (COAI) had made a request to DoT, in the year 2001, for

 allocating additional spectrum particularly in Delhi and Mumbai

 service areas. On this, Technical Committee was constituted

 which gave its report on 21.11.2001 recommending therein that

 6.2 MHz spectrum was sufficient for a subscriber based out of

 about 9 lacs per operator in service areas like Delhi and Mumbai

 for another 24-30 months. The Committee also recommended to

 levy incremental charges for additional spectrum. However, on

 31.01.2002, a note was put up by Mr. J.R. Gupta mentioning

 therein that a consensus had emerged after discussion that

 additional spectrum to the extent of 1.8 MHz (paired) beyond 6.2

 MHz in 1800 MHz band might be released on case to case

 co-ordination basis to the Operators by charging additional 1% of

 revenue after customer base of 4-5 lacs was reached. On this

 note, Mr. Shyamal Ghosh agreed to the reduced subscriber base

 from 9 lacs to 4/5 lacs for allocation of additional spectrum and

 recommended to allocate additional spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz

 upto 10 MHz by charging only additional 1% of AGR. This note

 was approved by the then Minister of Communications and

 Information Technology on the same day i.e. 31.01.2002 itself. It

 resulted in issuance and circulation of General Order on

 01.02.2002 to all Cellular Mobile Telecom Service (CMTS) Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 9 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 Operators. As per the allegations in the FIR, the accused public

 servants entered into a criminal conspiracy with the accused

 beneficiary companies in taking the aforesaid decision which

 caused undue cumulative pecuniary advantage of Rs.846.44

 crores to the beneficiary companies and corresponding loss to the

 Government Exchequer, by charging an additional 1% AGR only

 for allotting additional spectrum from 6.2 MHz upto 10 MHz

 (paired) instead of charging 2% AGR, as per the existing norms. 10. Thus, the allegation, in nutshell, is for grant of additional spectrum

 by lowering the condition of 9 lacs subscribers to 4/5 lacs

 subscribers, by only charging additional 1% AGR instead of

 charging additional 2% AGR which has caused losses to the

 Government Revenue. It is further the case of the prosecution

 that this was the result of conspiracy hatched between

 Mr.Shyamal Ghosh and the then Minister as well as the accused

 Cellular Operator Companies. The decision was taken in haste

 on 31st January, 2002 itself inasmuch as note was prepared by

 Mr. J.R. Gupta on that day which was agreed to by Mr. Shyamal

 Ghosh and thereafter approved by the Minister on the same day.

 On that basis, circular was issued on the very next day i.e. on

 01.02.2002. As per the charge-sheet, investigation has also

 revealed that all this was done in haste to help M/s Bharti Cellular Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 10 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 Limited which had come out with Initial Public Offer (IPO) that

 was opened and it was not getting good response from the public

 as it had remained under-subscribed. The moment such a

 decision of allocating additional spectrum was taken on

 31.01.2002, on the very next day, the issue got over-subscribed. 11. It would be pertinent to mention that in the charge-sheet filed,

 Mr.J.R. Gupta was not made accused as no material of any

 conspiracy or being a part of decision is attributed to him. In this

 charge-sheet, CBI named Mr. Shyamal Ghosh and the aforesaid

 three companies namely M/s Bharti Cellular Limited, M/s

 Hutchison Max Telecom (P) Limited and M/s Sterling Cellular

 Limited as the accused persons in respect of offences under Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of the PC Act and allied offences.

 The Impugned Order 12. The matter was taken up by the Special Judge on 19th March,

 2013 for the purposes of issuance of summons to the accused

 persons in the said charge-sheet (CC No.101/12). The learned

 Special Judge passed orders dated 19th March, 2013 recording

 his satisfaction to the effect that there was enough incriminating

 material on record to proceed against the accused persons. At

 the same time, the learned Special Judge also found that Mr.Sunil Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 11 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 Bharti Mittal was Chairman-cum-Managing Director of Bharti

 Cellular Limited, Mr. Asim Ghosh was Managing Director of

 Hutchison Max Telecom (P) Limited and Mr. Ravi Ruia was a

 Director in Sterling Cellular Limited, who used to chair the

 meetings of its Board. According to him, in that capacity, these

 persons, prima facie, could be treated as controlling the affairs of

 the respective companies and represent the directing mind and

 will of each company. They were, thus, “alter ego” of their

 respective companies and the acts of the companies could be

 attributed and imputed to them. On this premise, the Special

 Judge felt that there was enough material on record to proceed

 against these three persons as well. Thus, while taking

 cognizance of the case, he decided to issue summons not only to

 the four accused named in the charge-sheet but the aforesaid

 three persons as well. 13. Two of the aforesaid three persons are before us in these

 appeals. Feeling aggrieved, they have challenged the order

 insofar as it proceeds to implicate them as accused persons in

 the said charge-sheet. 14. Before proceeding to record the submissions of the learned

 counsel for the appellants as well as the counsel opposite, it Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 12 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 becomes necessary to take note of the brief order dated 19th

 March, 2013, as this order was read and re-read time and again

 by each counsel with an attempt to give their own interpretation to

 the same. Therefore, we deem it apposite to reproduce the said

 order in its entirety as it would facilitate understanding the

 arguments of counsel on either side, with more clarity. The

 impugned order dated 19th March, 2003 reads as under: In this fact situation, the acts of the companies are to Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 13 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 be attributed and imputed to them. Consequently, I
 find enough material on record to proceed against
 them also. 5. Accordingly, I take cognizance of the case.
 Issue summons to all seven accused for 11.04.2013.” 15. It will also be pertinent to mention that the appellants were not

 implicated as accused persons in the charge-sheet. As discussed

 in some details at the appropriate stage, Mr. Mittal was

 interrogated but in the opinion of CBI, no case was made out

 against him. Mr. Ravi Ruia was not even summoned during

 investigation. The Arguments : Appellants 16. M/s Harish Salve and Fali Nariman, learned senior counsel,

 argued the case on behalf of the appellant Sunil Bharti Mittal in an

 attempt to take him out of the clutches of the impugned order.

 Mr.K.V. Viswanathan, learned senior counsel, led the attack to the

 said order on behalf of the appellant Ravi Ruia. Their onslaught

 was tried to be blunted by Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior

 counsel appearing for the CBI. Challenge of the appellants was

 also sought to be thwarted by Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned

 counsel appearing for CPIL, and Mr. Sunil Malhotra, counsel who

 argued on behalf of Telecom Watchdog, which has filed the

 appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.) Nos.3326-3327/2013 challenging Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 14 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 another order of the even date namely 19th March, 2013 passed

 by the Special Judge whereby protest application filed by this

 appellant has been dismissed. 17. Leading the attack from the front, Mr. Harish Salve opened his

 submission by arguing that the impugned order was in two parts.

 Paras 1 to 3 pertain to the charge-sheet which was filed by the

 CBI naming four accused persons namely, Mr. Shyamal Ghosh

 and the three Cellular Companies. This fact is noted in para 2.

 He pointed out that in respect of these four accused persons

 named in the charge-sheet, after going through the copy of the

 FIR, charge-sheet, statement of witnesses and documents on

 record, the learned Judge was satisfied that there was enough

 incriminating material on record to proceed against them.

 However, in the second part of the order, which was contained in

 para 4, the Court also found that the three persons (including the

 two appellants) were, prima facie, controlling the affairs of the

 said three companies and, therefore, they represented the

 directing mind and will of each company. On that basis, these

 three persons are treated as “alter ego” of their respective

 companies and in the opinion of the learned Special Judge, the

 acts of the companies are “to be attributed and imputed to them”.

 That was the reason given by the Special Judge finding enough Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 15 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 material to proceed against them also which resulted in issuing of

 summons against these three persons including the appellant. 18. The neat submission of Mr. Salve was that the aforesaid reason

 given by the learned Special Judge was clearly erroneous in law.

 Expanding this argument, he submitted that principle of “alter

 ego” has always been applied in reverse, inasmuch as general

 principle is that the acts of individual, who is in control of the

 affairs of a company and is a directing mind, are attributed to the

 company, inasmuch as whenever such a person, who is

 controlling the affairs of the company, is made an accused, on the

 application of the principle of “alter ego”, the company can also be

 implicated as accused person. It is on the well recognised

 principle that company does not act of its own but through its

 Directors/Officers and when such Directors/Officers act on behalf

 of the company, the company is also held liable for those acts on

 the application of “principal – agent” principle. He submitted that

 it has never been a case where for the act of the company, an

 individual is made accused, unless there is a categorical provision

 in the statute making such a person vicariously liable or there is

 enough material to attribute the alleged acts of criminality to the

 said person. For his aforesaid submissions, he placed heavy

 reliance upon the decision of this Court in Iridium India Telecom Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 16 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 Ltd. v. Motorola Inc2 . He further submitted that merely on the

 basis of the appellant's status in the company, it could not be

 presumed that it is the appellant who became a party to the

 alleged conspiracy, as was held in Maharashtra State

 Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd. v. Datar Switchgear Ltd.3 in the

 following manner: 19. In addition to the above, another submission of Mr. Salve was

 that in the present case, role of the appellant was specifically

 looked into and investigated by the CBI and an opinion was

 formed that there was no material to implicate him. Since the

 appellant was consciously omitted from the array of the accused

 persons after thorough discussions and deliberations by the

 investigating agency at the appropriate level, and it was

 specifically so stated in the charge-sheet itself, in a situation like

 this even if the learned Judge wanted to differ from the

 investigating agency and decided to take cognizance against the

 appellant, he should have given valid reasons for proceeding

 against the appellant which could include his opinion that there

 was sufficient material against the appellant to be proceeded

 against. However, reasons given in the impugned order,

 according to the learned senior counsel, are totally extraneous Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 19 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 amounting to wrong approach in law. 20. His further submission was that even at a later stage if any

 evidence surfaces against the appellant, the Court is not

 powerless as any person can be summoned as accused under

 Section 319 of the Code at any stage of the trial. 21. Mr. Viswanathan who appeared for the appellant Mr. Ravi Ruia,

 while adopting the aforesaid arguments and reiterating them

 briefly, tried to canvass another feature peculiar to in the case of

 his client Mr. Ravi Ruia. The learned counsel pointed out that he

 was not even called for interrogation by the CBI which would

 show that there is no material against him at all. His name is not

 even mentioned in the charge-sheet. He painstakingly pleaded

 that in the absence of any material reflected even in the

 charge-sheet, this appellant would be handicapped in making any

 submission for his discharge at the stage of framing charges. As

 the appellant was implicated involving the principle of vicarious

 liability, which is not applicable and erroneously referred to, he

 had no option but to file the present appeal for quashing of the

 notice of cognizance against him. Mr. Viswanathan in support of

 his submission referred certain judgments, which we shall discuss

 at the appropriate stage. Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 20 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 The Arguments: Respondents 22. Mr. K. K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing for the

 CBI, refuted the aforesaid submissions in strongest possible

 manner. He referred to the various portions of the charge-sheet

 where allegations against the accused persons are stated and

 outcome of the investigation revealed. His endeavour was to

 demonstrate the manner in which the decision was taken,

 resulting into huge loss to the Government Exchequer and, prima

 facie, it was established that such a decision was taken to help

 the accused Telecom Companies. He argued that once the

 companies are charged with mens rea offences, they require

 guilty mind as these are not strict liability offences. However, the

 companies would act through their Directors/Officers only and the

 mens rea/guilty mind would be of those persons who are

 controlling the affairs of the companies. He referred to the

 counter affidavit filed by the CBI which, in summary form,

 mentions the role of different persons including the manner in

 which note was put up by Mr. J.R. Gupta; the changes that were

 made by Mr. Shyamal Ghosh to the said note allegedly to benefit

 the companies; and the manner in which it was approved by the

 Minister. This affidavit also mentions that there is evidence on

 record to show that the appellant Mr. Sunil Mittal had met late Shri Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 21 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 Pramod Mahajan during 2001-2002 for getting allocated

 additional spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz for tele-service area of his

 company. There was also evidence of meetings between the

 appellant and Mr. Shyamal Ghosh for the same purpose during

 the same period which would constitute the circumstantial

 evidence to implicate these persons. The thrust of his

 submission, thus, is that it is the “human agency” in the accused

 companies who was responsible as it was a mens rea offence

 and such an agency/person has to be the top person, going by

 the circumstantial evidence. Therefore, even if in the

 charge-sheet, names of these appellants were not included, the

 Special Judge was within his powers to look into the matter in its

 entirety as the charge-sheet along with documents spanning over

 25000 pages was submitted to him. 23. Mr. Venugopal joined issue on the interpretation given by the

 appellants to the impugned order. According to him, the order

 could not be bifurcated into two parts. Para 3 of the order

 wherein the Special Judge has observed that he had perused the

 FIR, charge-sheet, statement of witnesses and documents on

 record was relatable to the three individuals, including the two

 appellants as well. He even submitted that in the absence of

 individual accused persons, who were in charge of the affairs of Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 22 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 the three accused companies, it may become difficult to proceed

 against the accused companies alone as it was a mens rea

 offence. He also relied upon the following judgments to support

 the impugned order, with the plea that the trial court was invested

 with requisite powers to summon the appellants: Once the Magistrate takes cognizance of the
 offence he may proceed to try the offender (except
 where the case is transferred under Section 191) or
 commit him for trial under Section 209 of the Code if
 the offence is triable exclusively by a Court of
 Session. As pointed out earlier cognizance is taken
 of the offence and not the offender. This Court in Raghubans Dubey v. State of Bihar (1967) 2 SCR
 423stated that once cognizance of an offence is
 taken it becomes the Court’s duty ‘to find out who
 the offenders really are’ and if the Court finds ‘that
 apart from the persons sent up by the police some
 other persons are involved, it is its duty to proceed
 against those persons’ by summoning them
 because ‘the summoning of the additional accused
 is part of the proceeding initiated by its taking
 cognizance of an offence’. Even after the present
 Code came into force, the legal position has not
 undergone a change; on the contrary the ratio of Dubey case was affirmed in Hareram Satpathy v.
 Tikaram Agarwala . (1978) 4 SCC 58 Thus far there
 is no difficulty. 3. Dharam Pal v. State of Haryana8 “40. In that view of the matter, we have no hesitation
 in agreeing with the views expressed in Kishun
 Singh case (1993) 2 SCC 16 that the Sessions
 Court has jurisdiction on committal of a case to it, to
 take cognizance of the offences of the persons not
 named as offenders but whose complicity in the
 case would be evident from the materials available
 on record. Hence, even without recording evidence,
 upon committal under Section 209, the Sessions
 Judge may summon those persons shown in
 column 2 of the police report to stand trial along with
 those already named therein. 41. We are also unable to accept Mr Dave's
 submission that the Sessions Court would have no

8 (2014) 3 SCC 306 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 24 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 alternative, but to wait till the stage under Section
 319 CrPC was reached, before proceeding against
 the persons against whom a prima facie case was
 made out from the materials contained in the case
 papers sent by the learned Magistrate while
 committing the case to the Court of Session.” 24. He also referred to the decision in the case of Lee Kun Hee,

 President, Samsung Corpn., South Korea v. State of Uttar

 Pradesh9 wherein this Court has set down the limits of High

 Court's power under Section 482 of the Code to interfere with

 summoning orders passed by the trial court, as follows: Appellant 1, we are told, was Chairman and Director
 of Samsung, South Korea. It is contended that he
 has had nothing to do with Samsung, Dubai. We are
 informed that he lives in South Korea. Appellant 2,
 we are informed, was a former Vice-Chairman and
 CEO of Samsung, South Korea. He also has had
 nothing to do with Samsung, Dubai. He too lives in
 South Korea. xx xx xx 54. The fourth contention advanced at the hands of
 the learned counsel for the appellants was aimed at
 demonstrating; firstly, that the charges, as have
 been depicted in the summoning order, were not
 made out; secondly, that the appellants herein were
 functionaries of a company, and therefore, per se
 could not be made vicariously liable for offences
 emerging out of actions allegedly taken in
 furtherance of the discharge of their responsibilities
 towards the company; and thirdly, that none of the
 appellants had any concern whatsoever (even as
 functionaries of the company concerned), with the
 allegations levelled by the complainant. xx xx xx 57. In paras 24 to 30, this Court in Iridium India
 Telecom Ltd. case (2011) 1 SCC 74 noticed the
 facts pertaining to the controversy, and the
 emerging legal technicalities canvassed at the
 hands of the appellants. In paras 31 to 37, this
 Court recorded the response thereto, at the behest
 of the accused. Thereupon, this Court in Iridium
 India Telecom Ltd. case made the following
 observations in para 38: (SCC p. 89) “38. We have
 considered the submissions made by the learned
 Senior Counsel. A bare perusal of the submissions
 would be sufficient to amply demonstrate that this
 cannot be said to be an ‘open and shut’ case for
 either of the parties. There is much to be said on
 both sides. The entire scenario painted by both the
 sides is circumscribed by ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’. A mere Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 26 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 reading of the 1992 PPM would not be sufficient to
 conclude that the entire information has been given
 to the prospective investors. Similarly, merely
 because there may have been some gaps in the
 information provided in the PPM would not be
 sufficient to conclude that the respondents have
 made deliberate misrepresentations. In such
 circumstances, we have to examine whether it was
 appropriate for the High Court to exercise its
 jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC to quash the
 proceedings at the stage when the Magistrate had
 merely issued process against the respondents.”

 xx xx xx 59. While dealing with the various judgments
 rendered by this Court on the subject reference was
 also made to the decision in M.N. Ojha v. Alok
 Kumar Srivastav (2009) 9 SCC 682 . In M.N. Ojha case similar views as in Bhajan Lal case 1992 Supp
 (1) SCC 335 came to be recorded in the following
 words: ( M.N. Ojha case, SCC pp. 686-88, paras 25
 & 27-30)

 “25. Had the learned SDJM applied his mind
 to the facts and circumstances and sequence
 of events and as well as the documents filed
 by the complainant himself along with the
 complaint, surely he would have dismissed
 the complaint. He would have realised that the
 complaint was only a counterblast to the FIR
 lodged by the Bank against the complainant
 and others with regard to the same
 transaction. xx xx xx 27. The case on hand is a classic illustration
 of non-application of mind by the learned
 Magistrate. The learned Magistrate did not
 scrutinise even the contents of the complaint,
 leave aside the material documents available
 on record. The learned Magistrate truly was a
 silent spectator at the time of recording of
 preliminary evidence before summoning the
 appellants. (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 xx xx xx 28. The High Court committed a manifest
 error in disposing of the petition filed by the
 appellants under Section 482 of the Code
 without even adverting to the basic facts
 which were placed before it for its
 consideration. 29. It is true that the Court in exercise of its
 jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure cannot go into the truth or
 otherwise of the allegations and appreciate
 the evidence if any available on record. Normally, the High Court would not intervene
 in the criminal proceedings at the preliminary
 stage/when the investigation/enquiry is
 pending. 30. Interference by the High Court in exercise
 of its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure can only be
 where a clear case for such interference is
 made out. Frequent and uncalled for
 interference even at the preliminary stage by
 the High Court may result in causing
 obstruction in the progress of the inquiry in a
 criminal case which may not be in the public
 interest. But at the same time the High Court
 cannot refuse to exercise its jurisdiction if the
 interest of justice so required where the
 allegations made in the FIR or complaint are
 so absurd and inherently improbable on the
 basis of which no fair-minded and informed
 observer can ever reach a just and proper
 conclusion as to the existence of sufficient
 grounds for proceeding. In such cases refusal
 to exercise the jurisdiction may equally result
 in injustice more particularly in cases where
 the complainant sets the criminal law in
 motion with a view to exert pressure and
 harass the persons arrayed as accused in the
 complaint.” 63. As of now we are satisfied, that the factual Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 28 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 foundation/background of the acts of omission and
 commission presented by the complainant is
 specific and categorical. We are also satisfied that
 the allegations levelled by the complainant, fully
 incorporate all the basic facts which are necessary
 to make out the offences whereunder the impugned
 summoning order dated 12-1-2005 has been
 passed. The instant controversy does not suffer
 from any of the impairments referred in Iridium India
 Telecom Ltd. case. Accordingly, we leave it open to
 the appellants to canvass the legal issues, as were
 canvassed before us, before the trial court. After the
 rival parties have led their evidence the trial court
 will return its finding thereon in accordance with law
 without being influenced by any observations made
 on the merits of the controversy hereinabove, or
 hereafter. xx xx xx 71. It was also the contention of the learned counsel
 for the respondents, that the civil liability, in the
 instant case, was raised as against the eventual
 purchaser of the goods/product (Samsung, Dubai),
 in lieu of the goods/product supplied by the
 complainant JCE Consultancy, which had passed
 onto the purchasers under the agreement dated
 1-12-2001. Accordingly, the civil liability was only
 raised as against Samsung, Dubai. However,
 insofar as the criminal liability is concerned,
 Samsung, Dubai being one of the subsidiary
 companies of Samsung, South Korea, it was
 allegedly under the overall control exercised by
 Samsung, South Korea. Samsung, South Korea,
 according to the complainant, was instrumental in
 the eventual decision taken by Samsung, Dubai to
 deny the passing of the reciprocal monetary
 consideration for the goods supplied under the
 agreement dated 1-12-2001. This, according to the
 respondents, has been the categorical stance of
 JCE Consultancy in the criminal complaint, as also,
 in the pre-summoning evidence recorded before the
 VIIth Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate,
 Ghaziabad under Section 200 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure. Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 29 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.) 72. These allegations made by JCE Consultancy,
 are supported by documents furnished to the
 summoning court. The aforesaid factual position
 has also been endorsed by Sky Impex Ltd. before
 this Court. According to the learned counsel for the
 respondents, the culpability of the appellants before
 this Court, in a series of similar actions, clearly
 emerges even from documents placed on record of
 the instant case by Sky Impex Ltd. As such, it is
 submitted, that the respondents have per se
 repudiated all the submissions advanced on behalf
 of the appellant, obviously subject to the evidence
 which rival parties will be at liberty to adduce before
 the trial court. xx xx xx 74. It would not be appropriate for us to delve into
 the culpability of the appellants at the present
 juncture on the basis of the factual position
 projected by the rival parties before us. The
 culpability (if at all) would emerge only after
 evidence is adduced by the rival parties before the
 trial court. The only conclusion that needs to be
 drawn at the present juncture is that even on the
 basis of the last submission canvassed on behalf of
 the appellants it is not possible to quash the
 summoning order at this stage. In the aforesaid
 view of the matter, it is left open to the appellants to
 raise their objections, if they are so advised, before
 the trial court. The trial court shall, as it ought to,
 adjudicate upon the same in consonance with law
 after allowing the rival parties to lead evidence to
 substantiate their respective positions.” 25. He concluded his submission by reiterating that when it was a

 case of circumstantial evidence which appeared on record in

 abundance, the trial court was right in summoning the appellants

 and in fact, judgment in Keshav Mahindra v. State of M.P.10 fully

 supported the impugned order. On the other hand, decision in
10 (1996) 6 SCC 129 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 30 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 Iridium India Telecom Ltd. (supra) had no application to the

 facts of this case. 26. Mr. Prashant Bhushan, appearing for intervenor, highlighted the

 role of the appellant Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal from the records and

 particularly the extract of file noting which inter alia contained the

 views of the Superintendent of Police. He, thus, submitted that

 this constituted sufficient material to proceed against him and

 since it was only a summoning order, the appellants were free to

 seek discharge before the trial court. Submissions of Mr. Sunil

 Malhotra, Advocate, were also on the same lines.

 The Arguments: Appellants' Rejonder 27. Mr. Fali Nariman argued in rejoinder on the lines submissions

 were made by Mr. Salve, and in the process lucidly expanded

 those submissions. Emphasising that position in law with regard

 to vicarious liability was that there is no such vicarious liability in

 criminal law unless something is imputed or there is a specific

 statutory provision creating criminal vicarious liability. He pointed

 out that in para 4 of the impugned order, the learned Special

 Judge has not gone into the facts but did so taking shelter under

 a legal cover, but went wrong in applying an ex facie incorrect

 non- existing legal principle. Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 31 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
Our Analysis of the Subject Matter 28. We have given our serious consideration to all the submissions

 made before us and fully conscious of the importance of the

 matter as well. At the outset, we would like to point out that

 detailed submissions were made on the nature of the charges,

 and in the process, learned counsel for the appellants tried to

 trivialize the matter by stating that what was decided was only a

 policy decision of the Government to allocate additional spectrum

 by charging 1% additional AGR i.e. from 4% to 5%; benefit

 thereof was extended to all Cellular Operating Companies

 including Pubic Sector Companies like MTNL and BSNL etc. and,

 therefore, there cannot be a criminal intent behind it. Mr. Salve as

 well as Mr. Nariman took pains in showing various portions of the

 counter affidavit filed by the CBI to show that the appellant was

 left out and not made accused after due deliberations and argued

 that it was not a case of erroneous omission by CBI. It was also

 argued at length that the allegations were in the domain of the

 policy decision taken by the Government to charge 4% of AGR

 whereas it was realised much later in the year 2010 when the

 TRAI has passed orders that it should have been 5% AGR.

 According to them, it was merely a bona fide policy decision

 which could not be subject matter of criminal proceedings, in the Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 32 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 absence of intent of criminality therein. More so, when benefit of the said decision was not confined to the appellant's company,

 namely M/s Bharti Cellular Limited, but was extended to all others

 as well including public sector telecom companies like MTNL and

 BSNL. Therefore, there cannot be a criminal intent behind such a

 decision. Mr. K.K. Venugopal and others, appearing for the other

 side, had tried to demonstrate that the aforesaid submission of

 the learned counsel for the appellant was totally erroneous and

 contrary to records. He tried to project that it was a conspiracy of

 major level with sole intention to benefit the accused companies

 at the cost of the public exchequer and for this purpose, criminal

 conspiracy was hatched up between them. However, we make it

 clear at this juncture itself that this part of the submission is

 beyond the scope of the present appeals inasmuch as even

 according to the learned counsel for the appellants that the

 aforesaid is not made the basis of the order while implicating the

 appellants herein. Insofar as four persons who were made

 accused in the charge-sheet by the CBI is concerned, they are

 concededly not before us as their summoning order has not been

 challenged. Therefore, we deem it unnecessary to go into this

 question, which position was even conceded by all the counsel

 appearing before us. Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 33 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.) 29. The fulcrum of the issue before us is the validity of that part of

 impugned order vide which the two appellants who were not

 named in the charge sheet, have been summoned by the Special

 Judge, for the reasons given therein. (i) Dissecting the Impugned Order: 30. In the first instance, we make it clear that there is no denying the

 legal position that even when a person is not named in the charge

 sheet as an accused person, the trial court has adequate powers

 to summon such a non-named person as well, if the trial court

 finds that the charge sheet and the documents/material placed

 along with the charge-sheet disclose sufficient prima facie

 material to proceed against such a person as well. Kishun

 Singh (supra) and Dharam Pal (supra) are the direct decisions

 on this aspect. However, in the present case, the question is not

 as to whether there is sufficient material against the appellants

 filed in the trial court to proceed against them. Whether such a

 material is there or not is not reflected from the impugned order

 as that aspect is not even gone into. The learned Special Judge

 has not stated in the order that after examining the relevant

 documents, including statement of witnesses, he is satisfied that

 there is sufficient incriminating material on record to proceed Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 34 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 against the appellants as well. On reading of the impugned order

 which is already extracted verbatim, it is very clear that in para 2

 of the order, the learned Special Judge discusses the

 submissions of the Public Prosecutor in respect of the persons

 who are made accused in the charge-sheet. Insofar as

 charge-sheet is concerned, it has named Mr. Shyamal Ghosh,

 who was the public servant and other three accused persons are

 the corporate entities. Submission of the learned Public

 Prosecutor is recorded in this para that there is enough

 incriminating material on record against them and they be

 proceeded against, as per law. Immediately thereafter in para 3,

 the learned Special Judge records his satisfaction on the perusal

 of the records namely FIR, charge-sheet, statement of witnesses

 and documents and states that he is satisfied that there is enough

 incriminating material on record to proceed against the “accused

 persons”. Para 3 is clearly relatable to para 2. Here, the

 “accused persons” referred to are those four persons whose

 names are mentioned in para 2. Obviously, till that stage,

 appellants were not the accused persons as they are not named

 as such in the charge-sheet. After recording his satisfaction qua

 the four said accused persons, discussion about other three

 individuals (including the two appellants) starts from para 4 where Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 35 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 the Special Judge “also” finds and refers to the positions which

 these three persons hold/held in the three companies

 respectively. In para 4, the learned Special Judge does not

 mention about any incriminating material against them in the

 statement of witnesses or documents etc. On the other hand, the

 reason for summoning these persons and proceeding against

 them are specifically ascribed in this para which, prima facie, are: 31. It is on this basis alone that the Special Judge records that “in this

 fact situation, the acts of companies are to be attributed and

 imputed to them”. (ii) Principle of “alter ego”, as applied 32. The moot question is whether the aforesaid proposition, to

 proceed against the appellants is backed by law? In order to find

 the answer, let us scan through the case law that was cited during

 the arguments. Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 36 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.) 33. First case which needs to be discussed is Iridium India (supra). Before we discuss the facts of this case, it would be relevant to

 point out that the question as to whether a company could be

 prosecuted for an offence which requires mens rea had been

 earlier referred to in a Constitution Bench of five Judges in the

 case of Standard Chartered Bank v. Directorate of

 Enforcement11 . The Constitution Bench had held that a company

 can be prosecuted and convicted for an offence which requires a

 minimum sentence of imprisonment. In para 8 of the judgment,

 the Constitution Bench clarified that the Bench is not expressing

 any opinion on the question whether a corporation could be

 attributed with requisite mens rea to prove the guilt. Para 8 reads

 as under: 34. In Iridium India (supra), the aforesaid question fell directly for

 consideration, namely, whether a company could be prosecuted

 for an offence which requires mens rea and discussed this aspect

 at length, taking note of the law that prevails in America and

11 (2005) 4 SCC 530 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 37 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 England on this issue. For our benefit, we will reproduce paras

 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64 herein: (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.) 172): Nattrass. In stating the principle of corporate liability
 for criminal offences, Lord Reid made the following
 statement of law: (AC p. 170 E-G)

 “I must start by considering the nature of the
 personality which by a fiction the law attributes
 to a corporation. A living person has a mind
 which can have knowledge or intention or be
 negligent and he has hands to carry out his
 intentions. A corporation has none of these: it
 must act through living persons, though not
 always one or the same person. Then the
 person who acts is not speaking or acting for
 the company. He is acting as the company and
 his mind which directs his acts is the mind of Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 39 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 the company. There is no question of the
 company being vicariously liable. He is not
 acting as a servant, representative, agent or
 delegate. He is an embodiment of the company
 or, one could say, he hears and speaks through
 the persona of the company, within his
 appropriate sphere, and his mind is the mind of
 the company. If it is a guilty mind then that guilt
 is the guilt of the company. It must be a
 question of law whether, once the facts have
 been ascertained, a person in doing particular
 things is to be regarded as the company or
 merely as the company’s servant or agent. In
 that case any liability of the company can only
 be a statutory or vicarious liability.” 63. From the above it becomes evident that a
 corporation is virtually in the same position as any
 individual and may be convicted of common law as
 well as statutory offences including those requiring
 mens rea. The criminal liability of a corporation would
 arise when an offence is committed in relation to the
 business of the corporation by a person or body of
 persons in control of its affairs. In such
 circumstances, it would be necessary to ascertain
 that the degree and control of the person or body of
 persons is so intense that a corporation may be said
 to think and act through the person or the body of
 persons. The position of law on this issue in Canada
 is almost the same. Mens rea is attributed to
 corporations on the principle of “alter ego” of the
 company. 64. So far as India is concerned, the legal position
 has been clearly stated by the Constitution Bench
 judgment of this Court in Standard Chartered Bank v.
 Directorate of Enforcement (2005) 4 SCC 530 . On a
 detailed consideration of the entire body of case laws
 in this country as well as other jurisdictions, it has
 been observed as follows: (SCC p. 541, para 6)

 “6. There is no dispute that a company is liable
 to be prosecuted and punished for criminal
 offences. Although there are earlier authorities
 to the effect that corporations cannot commit a
 crime, the generally accepted modern rule is Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 40 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 that except for such crimes as a corporation is
 held incapable of committing by reason of the
 fact that they involve personal malicious intent,
 a corporation may be subject to indictment or
 other criminal process, although the criminal act
 is committed through its agents.” 35. It is abundantly clear from the above that the principle which is

 laid down is to the effect that the criminal intent of the “alter ego”

 of the company, that is the personal group of persons that guide

 the business of the company, would be imputed to the

 company/corporation. The legal proposition that is laid down in

 the aforesaid judgment is that if the person or group of persons

 who control the affairs of the company commit an offence with a

 criminal intent, their criminality can be imputed to the company as

 well as they are “alter ego” of the company. 36. In the present case, however, this principle is applied in an

 exactly reverse scenario. Here, company is the accused person

 and the learned Special Magistrate has observed in the impugned

 order that since the appellants represent the directing mind and

 will of each company, their state of mind is the state of mind of the

 company and, therefore, on this premise, acts of the company is

 attributed and imputed to the appellants. It is difficult to accept it

 as the correct principle of law. As demonstrated hereinafter, this

 proposition would run contrary to the principle of vicarious liability Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 41 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 detailing the circumstances under which a direction of a company

 can be held liable. (iii) Circumstances when Director/Person in charge of the
 affairs of the company can also be prosecuted, when the
 company is an accused person: 37. No doubt, a corporate entity is an artificial person which acts

 through its officers, directors, managing director, chairman etc. If

 such a company commits an offence involving mens rea, it would

 normally be the intent and action of that individual who would act

 on behalf of the company. It would be more so, when the criminal

 act is that of conspiracy. However, at the same time, it is the

 cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that there is no

 vicarious liability unless the statute specifically provides so. 38. Thus, an individual who has perpetrated the commission of an

 offence on behalf of a company can be made accused, along with

 the company, if there is sufficient evidence of his active role

 coupled with criminal intent. Second situation in which he can be

 implicated is in those cases where the statutory regime itself

 attracts the doctrine of vicarious liability, by specifically

 incorporating such a provision. 39. When the company is the offendor, vicarious liability of the

 Directors cannot be imputed automatically, in the absence of any Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 42 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 statutory provision to this effect. One such example is Section

 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. In Aneeta Hada (supra), the Court noted that if a group of persons that guide the

 business of the company have the criminal intent, that would be

 imputed to the body corporate and it is in this backdrop, Section

 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act has to be understood.

 Such a position is, therefore, because of statutory intendment

 making it a deeming fiction. Here also, the principle of “alter ego”,

 was applied only in one direction namely where a group of

 persons that guide the business had criminal intent, that is to be

 imputed to the body corporate and not the vice versa. Otherwise,

 there has to be a specific act attributed to the Director or any

 other person allegedly in control and management of the

 company, to the effect that such a person was responsible for the

 acts committed by or on behalf of the company. This very

 principle is elaborated in various other judgments. We have

 already taken note of Maharashtra State Electricity

 Distribution Co. Ltd. (supra) and S.K. Alagh (supra). Few other

 judgments reiterating this principle are the following: It does not make all the partners liable for the
 offence whether they do business or not.” 3. Hira Lal Hari Lal Bhagwati v. CBI 14

 “30. In our view, under the penal law, there is no
 concept of vicarious liability unless the said statute
 covers the same within its ambit. In the instant case,
 the said law which prevails in the field i.e. the Customs Act, 1962 the appellants have been
 thereinunder wholly discharged and the GCS
 granted immunity from prosecution.”

13 (1989) 4 SCC 630
14 (2003) 5 SCC 257 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 45 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.) 4. Maksud Saiyed v. State of Gujarat15 “13. Where a jurisdiction is exercised on a complaint
 petition filed in terms of Section 156(3) or Section
 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the
 Magistrate is required to apply his mind. The Penal
 Code does not contain any provision for attaching
 vicarious liability on the part of the Managing
 Director or the Directors of the Company when the
 accused is the Company. The learned Magistrate
 failed to pose unto himself the correct question viz.
 as to whether the complaint petition, even if given
 face value and taken to be correct in its entirety,
 would lead to the conclusion that the respondents
 herein were personally liable for any offence. The
 Bank is a body corporate. Vicarious liability of the
 Managing Director and Director would arise
 provided any provision exists in that behalf in the
 statute. Statutes indisputably must contain provision
 fixing such vicarious liabilities. Even for the said
 purpose, it is obligatory on the part of the
 complainant to make requisite allegations which
 would attract the provisions constituting vicarious
 liability.” 5. R. Kalyani v. Janak C. Mehta16 “32. Allegations contained in the FIR are for
 commission of offences under a general statute. A
 vicarious liability can be fastened only by reason of
 a provision of a statute and not otherwise. For the
 said purpose, a legal fiction has to be created. Even
 under a special statute when the vicarious criminal
 liability is fastened on a person on the premise that
 he was in charge of the affairs of the company and
 responsible to it, all the ingredients laid down under
 the statute must be fulfilled. A legal fiction must be
 confined to the object and purport for which it has
 been created.” 6. Sharon Michael v. State of T.N.17 15 (2008) 5 SCC 668
16 (2009) 1 SCC 516
17 (2009) 3 SCC 375 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 46 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 “16. The first information report contains details of
 the terms of contract entered into by and between
 the parties as also the mode and manner in which
 they were implemented. Allegations have been
 made against the appellants in relation to execution
 of the contract. No case of criminal misconduct on
 their part has been made out before the formation
 of the contract. There is nothing to show that the
 appellants herein who hold different positions in the
 appellant Company made any representation in
 their personal capacities and, thus, they cannot be
 made vicariously liable only because they are
 employees of the Company.” 7. Keki Hormusji Gharda v. Mehervan Rustom Irani18 “16. We have noticed hereinbefore that despite of the
 said road being under construction, the first
 respondent went to the police station thrice. He,
 therefore, was not obstructed from going to the police
 station. In fact, a firm action had been taken by the
 authorities. The workers were asked not to do any
 work on the road. We, therefore, fail to appreciate
 that how, in a situation of this nature, the Managing
 Director and the Directors of the Company as also
 the Architect can be said to have committed an
 offence under Section 341 IPC. 17. The Penal Code, 1860 save and except in some
 matters does not contemplate any vicarious liability
 on the part of a person. Commission of an offence by
 raising a legal fiction or by creating a vicarious
 liability in terms of the provisions of a statute must be
 expressly stated. The Managing Director or the
 Directors of the Company, thus, cannot be said to
 have committed an offence only because they are
 holders of offices. The learned Additional Chief
 Metropolitan Magistrate, therefore, in our opinion,
 was not correct in issuing summons without taking
 into consideration this aspect of the matter. The
 Managing Director and the Directors of the Company
 should not have been summoned only because

18 (2009) 6 SCC 475 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 47 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 some allegations were made against the Company. 18. In Pepsi Foods Ltd. v. Special Judicial Magistrate (1998) 5 SCC 749 this Court held as under: (SCC p.
 760, para 28)

 “28. Summoning of an accused in a criminal
 case is a serious matter. Criminal law cannot
 be set into motion as a matter of course. It is
 not that the complainant has to bring only two
 witnesses to support his allegations in the
 complaint to have the criminal law set into
 motion. The order of the Magistrate
 summoning the accused must reflect that he
 has applied his mind to the facts of the case
 and the law applicable thereto. He has to
 examine the nature of allegations made in the
 complaint and the evidence both oral and
 documentary in support thereof and would that
 be sufficient for the complainant to succeed in
 bringing charge home to the accused. It is not
 that the Magistrate is a silent spectator at the
 time of recording of preliminary evidence
 before summoning of the accused. The
 Magistrate has to carefully scrutinise the
 evidence brought on record and may even
 himself put questions to the complainant and
 his witnesses to elicit answers to find out the
 truthfulness of the allegations or otherwise and
 then examine if any offence is prima facie
 committed by all or any of the accused.” 19. Even as regards the availability of the remedy of
 filing an application for discharge, the same would
 not mean that although the allegations made in the
 complaint petition even if given face value and taken
 to be correct in its entirety, do not disclose an offence
 or it is found to be otherwise an abuse of the process
 of the court, still the High Court would refuse to
 exercise its discretionary jurisdiction under Section
 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.” 40. It is stated at the cost of repetition that in the present case, while

 issuing summons against the appellants, the Special Magistrate Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 48 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 has taken shelter under a so-called legal principle, which has

 turned out to be incorrect in law. He has not recorded his

 satisfaction by mentioning the role played by the appellants which

 would bring them within criminal net. In this behalf, it would be

 apt to note that the following observations of this Court in the

 case of GHCL Employees Stock Option Trust v. India Infoline

 Ltd.19 : 41. We have already mentioned above that even if the CBI did not

 implicate the appellants, if there was/is sufficient material on

 record to proceed against these persons as well, the Special

 Judge is duly empowered to take cognizance against these

 persons as well. Under Section 190 of the Code, any Magistrate

 of first class (and in those cases where Magistrate of the second
19 (2013) 4 SCC 505 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 49 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 class is specially empowered to do so) may take cognizance of

 any offence under the following three eventualities: 42. This Section which is the starting section of Chapter XIV is

 subject to the provisions of the said Chapter. The expression

 “taking cognizance” has not been defined in the Code. However,

 when the Magistrate applies his mind for proceeding under

 Sections 200-203 of the Code, he is said to have taken

 cognizance of an offence. This legal position is explained by this

 Court in S.K. Sinha, Chief Enforcement Officer v. Videocon

 International Ltd & Ors.20 in the following words: 43. Cognizance of an offence and prosecution of an offender are two

 different things. Section 190 of the Code empowered taking

 cognizance of an offence and not to deal with offenders.

 Therefore, cognizance can be taken even if offender is not known

 or named when the complaint is filed or FIR registered. Their

 names may transpire during investigation or afterwards. Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 51 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.) 44. Person who has not joined as accused in the charge-sheet can

 be summoned at the stage of taking cognizance under Section

 190 of the Code. There is no question of applicability of Section

 319 of the Code at this stage (See SWIL Ltd. v. State of Delhi21 ). It is also trite that even if a person is not named as an accused by

 the police in the final report submitted, the Court would be

 justified in taking cognizance of the offence and to summon the

 accused if it feels that the evidence and material collected during

 investigation justifies prosecution of the accused (See Union of

 India v. Prakash P. Hinduja and another22). Thus, the

 Magistrate is empowered to issue process against some other

 person, who has not been charge-sheeted, but there has to be

 sufficient material in the police report showing his involvement. In

 that case, the Magistrate is empowered to ignore the conclusion

 arrived at by the investigating officer and apply his mind

 independently on the facts emerging from the investigation and

 take cognizance of the case. At the same time, it is not

 permissible at this stage to consider any material other than that

 collected by the investigating officer. 45. On the other hand, Section 204 of the Code deals with the issue

21 (2001) 6 SCC 670
22 (2003) 6 SCC 195 Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 52 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 of process, if in the opinion of the Magistrate taking cognizance of

 an offence, there is sufficient ground for proceeding. This Section

 relates to commencement of a criminal proceeding. If the

 Magistrate taking cognizance of a case (it may be the Magistrate

 receiving the complaint or to whom it has been transferred under

 Section 192), upon a consideration of the materials before him

 (i.e., the complaint, examination of the complainant and his

 witnesses if present, or report of inquiry, if any), thinks that there

 is a prima facie case for proceeding in respect of an offence, he

 shall issue process against the accused. 46. A wide discretion has been given as to grant or refusal of process

 and it must be judicially exercised. A person ought not to be

 dragged into Court merely because a complaint has been filed. If

 a prima facie case has been made out, the Magistrate ought to

 issue process and it cannot be refused merely because he thinks

 that it is unlikely to result in a conviction. 47. However, the words “sufficient grounds for proceeding” appearing

 in the Section are of immense importance. It is these words

 which amply suggest that an opinion is to be formed only after

 due application of mind that there is sufficient basis for Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 53 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
 proceeding against the said accused and formation of such an

 opinion is to be stated in the order itself. The order is liable to be

 set aside if no reason is given therein while coming to the

 conclusion that there is prima facie case against accused, though

 the order need not contain detailed reasons. A fortiori, the order

 would be bad in law if the reason given turns out to be ex facie

 incorrect. 48. However, there has to be a proper satisfaction in this behalf which

 should be duly recorded by the Special Judge on the basis of

 material on record. No such exercise is done. In this scenario,

 having regard to the aforesaid aspects coupled with the legal

 position explained above, it is difficult to sustain the impugned

 order dated 19.03.2013 in its present form insofar as it relates to

 implicating the appellants and summoning them as accused

 persons. The appeals arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013

 and SLP (Crl.) No. 3161 of 2013 filed by Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal

 and Ravi Ruia respectively are, accordingly, allowed and order

 summoning these appellants is set aside. The appeals arising

 out of SLP (Crl.) Nos. 3326-3327 of 2013 filed by Telecom

 Watchdog are dismissed. Epilogue Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 54 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.) 49. While parting, we make it clear that since on an erroneous

 presumption in law, the Special Magistrate has issued the

 summons to the appellants, it will always be open to the Special

 Magistrate to undertake the exercise of going through the material

 on record and on that basis, if he is satisfied that there is enough

 incriminating material on record to proceed against the appellants

 as well, he may pass appropriate orders in this behalf. We also

 make it clear that even if at this stage, no such prima facie

 material is found, but during the trial, sufficient incriminating

 material against these appellants surfaces in the form of

 evidence, the Special Judge shall be at liberty to exercise his

 powers under Section 319 of the Code to rope in the appellants

 by passing appropriate orders in accordance with law at that

 stage. .........................................CJI. (H.L. DATTU)

 .............................................J.
 (MADAN B. LOKUR)

 .............................................J.
 (A.K. SIKRI)

NEW DELHI; JANUARY 09, 2015. Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 55 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.) Criminal Appeal No. of 2015 & Ors. Page 56 of 58 (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 & Ors.)
ITEM NO. 1A COURT NO.1 SECTION II
(For Judgment)

 S U P R E M E C O U R T O F I N D I A
 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 34 OF 2015 @
PETITION FOR SPECIAL LEAVE TO APPEAL (Crl.) NO. 2961 OF 2013

Sunil Mittal .. Appellant(s)

 vs.

Central Bureau of Investigation ..Respondent(s)

 WITH

CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 35 of 2015 (@ SLP(Crl.) No. 3161 of 2013 CRIMINAL APPEAL NOs.36-37 of 2015
(@ SLP(Crl.) Nos. 3326-3327 of 2013)

DATE : 09.01.2015 These matters were called on for
 pronouncement of judgment today. For Appellant(s) Mr. Harish Salve, Sr. Adv. Mr. Fali S. Nariman, Sr. Adv. Mr. Amit Desai, Sr. Adv. Mr. Percival Billimonia, Adv. Mr. Sidharth Agarwal, Adv. Mr. Kamal Shankar, Adv. Mr. Atul N, Adv. Mr. Manpreet Lamba, Adv. Mr. Gautam , Adv. Mr. Utkarsh Saxena, Adv. Mr. Utkarsh Saxena, Adv. Hon'ble Mr. Justice A.K. Sikri pronounced the
judgment of the Bench comprising Hon'ble the Chief
Justice, Hon'ble Mr. Justice Madan B. Lokur and His
Lordship. Leave granted. The appeals arising out of SLP(Crl.) No. 2961
of 2013 and 3161 of 2013 are allowed. The appeals
arising out of SLP(Crl.) Nos. 3326-3327 of 2013 are
dismissed. [ Signed reportable judgment is placed on the file ]