1 2025:HHC:33508

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No.: 2236 of 2025
 Reserved on : 18.09.2025
 Decided on : 26.09.2025

Bittu Ram ...Applicant

 Versus

State of Himachal Pradesh ...Respondent

Coram
The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Virender Singh, Judge.
Whether approved for reporting?1

For the applicant : Mr. Yashveer Singh Rathore,
 Advocate. For the respondent : Mr. Varun Chandel and Mr.
 Mohinder Zharaick, Additional
 Advocates General, with Mr. Rohit
 Sharma & Ms. Ranjna Patial,
 Deputy Advocates General. Virender Singh, Judge

 Applicant-Bittu Ram, has filed the present

application, under Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik

Suraksha Sanhita (hereinafter referred to as the 'BNSS'),

seeking the relief of bail, during the pendency of the trial,

arising out of FIR No.28/2025, dated 30th January,

2025, registered with Police Station, Nurpur, District 1 Whether Reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 2025:HHC:33508

Kangra, H.P., under Sections 20 and 29 of the Narcotic

Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (hereinafter

referred to as the ' NDPS Act '). 2. According to the applicant, the case of the

police is highly improbable and is highly suspicious,

having no truth in it. According to the applicant, the

grounds of detention were not communicated to him. 3. It is the further case of the applicant that he

has no role in the commission of the alleged crime, as, he

neither was instrumental behind the arrangement and

transportation of contraband, nor had ever any

communication pertaining to sale and purchase. 4. According to the applicant, the case is now

listed for consideration on charge and there is no

possibility of conclusion of trial in near future. 5. All these facts have been highlighted to show

that the custodial interrogation of the applicant is no

longer required by the Police, in this case. 6. It is the further case of the applicant that he is

a poor person and sole bread earner for his family. 3 2025:HHC:33508 7. The applicant has also tried his luck by moving

similar application before the Court of learned Special

Judge­III, Kangra at Dharamshala, District Kangra, which

was dismissed on 28.03.2025. 8. Apart from this, the learned counsel appearing

on behalf of the applicant, has given certain undertakings,

on behalf of the applicant, for which, the applicant is ready

to abide by, in case, ordered to be released, on bail, during

the pendency of the trial. 9. On the basis of the above facts, a prayer has

been made to allow the application. 10. When put to notice, police has filed the status

report, disclosing therein, that on 30.01.2025, ASI

Satender Singh, CIA, Police District Nurpur, along with

other police officials, was on patrolling duty and duty to

detect the crime relating to excise and narcotics, towards

Rehan, Raja­ka­Talab, Ganoh, etc.. 10.1. At about 04.10 p.m., when, the police party was

present in front of Himachal Bakery near Matholi Police

Line, and was talking with two local persons, namely Gopal

Singh and Deep Singh, at that time, he noticed two
 4 2025:HHC:33508

persons coming from Jasoor side and were moving towards

Talwara side on foot. One was having blue coloured plastic

sack. He was moving in fast speed and other person, who

had worn black neck was also having a plastic sack. One

person had covered his mouth with red colour scarf.

10.2. The I.O. inquired from Gopal Singh and Deep

Singh, about those persons, upon which, both of them said

that they do not know them. Both persons were found to

be outsiders. The I.O., called the person, who was having

the blue coloured sack, in his hand, however, he has not

given any heed to the command of the I.O. As such, both

the said persons were nabbed and I.O. apprised them

about the identification. 10.3. On seeing the identity card, both of them

became perplexed, as such, the I.O. developed a suspicion

in his mind that both the said persons were having stolen

or suspicious articles. As such, their antecedents were

ascertained. They disclosed their names as Jagdish and

Tega, residents of Chamba. 10.4. Thereafter, the sack, which they were carrying

were checked. On checking, the same were found
 5 2025:HHC:33508

containing charas, which was kept in a plastic and was

concealed in maize flour. On weighment, the said

contraband was found to be 2 kilograms 220 grams.

10.5. After completing other codal formalities, the FIR

was registered and the contraband, so recovered, was

taken into possession. The accused persons were arrested. 11. Thereafter, both the accused persons were

produced before the Court of learned Additional Chief

Judicial Magistrate, Nurpur, from where, they were

remanded to the police custody. 12. During investigation, accused Jagdish has

disclosed that accused Lekh Raj has kept the charas so

recovered in National Bus at Chamba Bus Stand and

photographs of the same were sent by Bittu Ram

(applicant), who has also apprised him about this fact by

making video call. Since, the transactions were found from

the account of Jagdish with Lekh Raj, as such, bank

account of Jagdish was freezed. 13. On 01.02.2025, applicant Bittu Ram was

detained and from his mobile phone, photo of charas was

found and it has also been found that he has deleted the
 6 2025:HHC:33508

whatsapp chat. Mobile phone of Jagdish and Bittu Ram

(applicant) were sent to RFSL Dharamshala. Applicant

Bittu Ram was arrested and was produced before the Court

on 1.2.2025, from where, he was remanded to police

custody for four days. 14. During investigation, accused Jagdish has

disclosed that he has requested his co­accused to supply

the Bhang. Consequently, said Lekh Raj kept the charas

in National Bus at Bus Stand Chamba. 15. During investigation, it was found that accused

Jagdish and Teja had not boarded the bus at Chamba Bus

Stand and Lekh Raj has supplied the contraband in the

area of Jhajhakothi, as Jagdish Lekh Raj and Bittu Ram

(applicant) were in the area of Jhajhakothi, from

25.01.2025 to 29.01.2025. 16. As per the status report, a specific role

attributed to the applicant is that he has forwarded the

photo of the charas through whatsapp and also made a

video call, upon which, the police has also checked the

phone of Jagdish. Photo of charas and video call was

found to be made when the google history in the mobile
 7 2025:HHC:33508

phone of Jagdish was perused and it has been found that

accused Lekh Raj, had transaction with accused Jagdish.

Thereafter, in order to retrieve the data, the mobile phones

of accused Jagdish and applicant Bittu Ram, were sent to

RFSL Dharamshala. 17. Except the present case, no other case is found

to have been registered against him. 18. Investigation, in the present case, is complete

and after completion of investigation, the police filed the

final report in the competent Court of law and the case has

been listed on 14.10.2025. 19. On the basis of the above facts, a prayer has

been made to dismiss the application. 20. The applicant, in the present case, has been

arrested, under the provisions of NDPS Act . The

legislature, in its wisdom, has enacted this statute to curb

the menace of drug abuse with stringent punishment.

Certain conditions are there, in the NDPS Act , in the shape

of Section 37 of NDPS Act, which are, in addition to the

conditions, as contained in Section 483 of the BNSS.

Before releasing a person on bail, those conditions, as
 8 2025:HHC:33508

enumerated under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, are to be

fulfilled, if the accused has been arrested for the offence,

involving commercial quantity of contraband. 21. The contraband allegedly recovered, in the

present case, admittedly, falls within the definition of

'commercial quantity'. As such, the rigors of Section 37 of

NDPS Act are applicable, in this case. 22. Once, it has been held that the contraband,

involved, in the present case, falls in the category of

'commercial quantity', then, the rigors of Section 37 of the

NDPS Act come into play. 23. Before releasing a person, involved in the crime,

it is obligatory upon the Court to record the findings,

which should be more than prima­facie findings, regarding

existence of the twin conditions, as enumerated under Section 37(b)(ii) of the NDPS Act. In other words, it can be

said that before releasing the person, involved in the crime

in issue, findings have to be recorded by the Court, about

the fact that accused is not guilty of such offence, and

while on bail, he will not commit any offence. 9 2025:HHC:33508 24. In a recent decision, in case, titled as Narcotics Control Bureau versus Mohit Aggarwal ,

reported in AIR 2022 SC 3444, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court has reiterated the earlier view regarding compliance

of the conditions, as enumerated in Section 37 of the NDPS

Act. The relevant paras 10 to 15 of the judgment are

reproduced, as under: 12. The expression "reasonable grounds" has
come up for discussion in several rulings of this
Court. In " Collector of Customs, New Delhi v.
Ahmadalieva Nodira ", (2004) 3 SCC 549, a
decision rendered by a Three Judges Bench of this
Court, it has been held thus: 13. The expression "reasonable ground" came up
for discussion in " State of Kerala and others Vs.
Rajesh and others " (2020) 12 SCC 122 and this
Court has observed as below: means something more than prima facie
 grounds. It contemplates substantial probable
 causes for believing that the accused is not
 guilty of the alleged offence. The reasonable
 belief contemplated in the provision
 requires existence of such facts and
 circumstances as are sufficient in
 themselves to justify satisfaction that the
 accused is not guilty of the alleged
 offence. In the case on hand, the High Court
 seems to have completely overlooked the
 underlying object of Section 37 that in
 addition to the limitations provided under the CrPC , or any other law for the time being in
 force, regulating the grant of bail, its liberal
 approach in the matter of bail under the NDPS
 Act is indeed uncalled for." [emphasis added] 14. To sum up, the expression "reasonable
 grounds" used in clause (b) of Sub­Section (1)
 of Section 37 would mean credible, plausible
 and grounds for the Court to believe that the
 accused person is not guilty of the alleged
 offence. For arriving at any such conclusion,
 such facts and circumstances must exist in a
 12 2025:HHC:33508

 case that can persuade the Court to believe
 that the accused person would not have
 committed such an offence. Dove­tailed with
 the aforesaid satisfaction is an additional
 consideration that the accused person is
 unlikely to commit any offence while on bail. 15. We may clarify that at the stage of
 examining an application for bail in the
 context of the Section 37 of the Act, the Court
 is not required to record a finding that the
 accused person is not guilty. The Court is also
 not expected to weigh the evidence for arriving
 at a finding as to whether the accused has
 committed an offence under the NDPS Act or
 not. The entire exercise that the Court is
 expected to undertake at this stage is for the
 limited purpose of releasing him on bail. Thus,
 the focus is on the availability of reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused is not
 guilty of the offences that he has been
 charged with and he is unlikely to commit an
 offence under the Act while on bail." 25. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case,

Criminal Appeal No. 5544 of 2024, titled as 'Narcotics

Control Bureau versus Kashif', Neutral Citation No.

2024 INSC 1045, has again reiterated the law, as

enumerated by it, in Mohit Aggarwal 's case (supra). The

Hon'ble Supreme Court, in this case, has held that the

provisions of Section 37 of NDPS Act are mandatory in

nature. Relevant paragraphs 8 and 39 of the said judgment are reproduced, as under: Apart from the granting opportunity of hearing to
the Public Prosecutor, the other two conditions i.e., (i) the satisfaction of the court that there are
reasonable grounds for believing that the accused
is not guilty of the alleged offence and that (ii) he is
not likely to commit any offence while on bail, are
the cumulative and not alternative conditions. xxx xxx xxx 39. The upshot of the above discussion may be
summarized as under: Recording of findings as mandated in Section 37 is
sine qua non is known for granting bail to the
accused involved in the offences under the NDPS
Act . (iii) The purpose of insertion of Section 52A laying
down the procedure for disposal of seized Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, was to ensure
the early disposal of the seized contraband drugs
and substances. It was inserted in 1989 as one of
the measures to implement and to give effect to the
International Conventions on the Narcotic drugs
and psychotropic substances. 14 2025:HHC:33508 (iv) Sub­section (2) of Section 52A lays down the
 procedure as contemplated in sub­section (1)
 thereof, and any lapse or delayed compliance
 thereof would be merely a procedural irregularity
 which would neither entitle the accused to be
 released on bail nor would vitiate the trial on that
 ground alone. (v) Any procedural irregularity or illegality found to
 have been committed in conducting the search and
 seizure during the course of investigation or
 thereafter, would by itself not make the entire
 evidence collected during the course of
 investigation, inadmissible. The Court would have
 to consider all the circumstances and find out
 whether any serious prejudice has been caused to
 the accused. (vi) Any lapse or delay in compliance of Section 52A by itself would neither vitiate the trial nor would
 entitle the accused to be released on bail. The Court
 will have to consider other circumstances and the
 other primary evidence collected during the course
 of investigation, as also the statutory presumption
 permissible under Section 54 of the NDPS Act." (self­emphasis supplied) 26. Being guided by the above decisions of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court, this Court will proceed further,

whether twin conditions, as enumerated, under Section

37(1)(b)(ii) of the NDPS Act, exist in favour of the applicant

or not. 27. Admittedly, the involvement of applicant Bittu

Ram was found by the Police, on the basis of the alleged

disclosure made by accused Jagdish, who along with Tega,

was nabbed by the police with contraband weighing 2.220
 15 2025:HHC:33508

kilograms of Charas. Jagdish has disclosed, during the

investigation, that the consignment of Charas was allegedly

kept by Lekh Raj in National Bus at Bus Stand Chamba

and photographs were sent by Bittu Ram applicant. No

financial transaction was found to be made between the

accused, who were nabbed with applicant. 28. In such situation, it can easily be said, at this

stage, that the involvement of the applicant was found

merely, on the basis of the alleged revelation made by co­

accused Jagdish, when, he was in police custody. 29. In view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in 'Tofan Singh versus State of Tamil

Nadu ', (2021) 4 Supreme Court Cases 1, the said

statement cannot be taken into account, in order to convict

the accused, under the provisions of NDPS Act . Relevant

paragraph 158.1 of the judgment is reproduced as under: 16 2025:HHC:33508 30. In view of the above, at this stage, this Court

has no legal hesitation to hold that the applicant is not

guilty of such offence and in case, he is ordered to be

released on bail, he will not commit any offence. 31. Even otherwise, for the second condition, as

enumerated under the provisions of Section 37(b)(ii) of the

NDPS Act that the applicant will not commit any offence,

while on bail, reasonable conditions, can be imposed upon

him. Consequently, the twin conditions, are found to be

existing in favour of the applicant. 32. Considering all these facts, this Court is of the

view that the bail application is liable to be allowed and is

accordingly allowed. 33. Consequently, the applicant is ordered to be

released on bail in case FIR No.28 of 2025 dated

30.01.2025, registered with Police Station, Nurpur,

District Kangra, H.P., under Sections 20 and 29 of the

NDPS Act, on his furnishing personal bond in the sum of

Rs.1,00,000/­, with two sureties, in the like amount, to the

satisfaction of learned trial Court. 17 2025:HHC:33508 34. This order, however, shall be subject to the

following conditions:­ a) Applicant shall regularly attend the trial Court on
 each and every date of hearing and if prevented by
 any reason to do so, seek exemption from appearance
 by filing appropriate application; b) Applicant shall not tamper with the prosecution
 evidence nor hamper the investigation of the case in
 any manner whatsoever; c) Applicant shall not make any inducement, threat or
 promises to any person acquainted with the facts of the
 case so as to dissuade them from disclosing such facts
 to the Court or the Police Officer, and d) Applicant shall not leave the territory of India
 without the prior permission of the Court. f) The applicant shall furnish affidavit, in the first week
 of every month, before the learned trial Court,
 disclosing therein that he has not been named, as
 accused, in any crime, during that period. 35. Any of the observations, made herein above, shall

not be taken, as an expression of opinion, on the merits of

the case, as these observations are confined, only to the

disposal of the present application. 36. It is made clear that the respondent­State is at

liberty to move an appropriate application, in case, any of

the bail conditions is found to be violated by the applicant. 37. The Registry is directed to forward a soft copy of

the bail order to the Superintendent of Jail, Lala Lajpat Rai
 18 2025:HHC:33508

District & Open Air Correctional Home, Dharamshala,

District Kangra, through e­mail, with a direction to enter

the date of grant of bail in the e­prison software. 38. In case, the applicant is not released within a

period of seven days from the date of grant of bail, the

Superintendent of Jail, Lala Lajpat Rai District & Open Air

Correctional Home, Dharamshala, is directed to inform this

fact to the Secretary, DLSA, Kangra at Dharamshala. The

Superintendent of Jail, Lala Lajpat Rai District & Open Air

Correctional Home, Dharamshala, is further directed that if

the applicants fail to furnish the bail bonds, as per the

order passed by this Court within a period of one month

from today, then, the said fact be submitted to this Court. 39. Record be returned to the quarter concerned.