1. Challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of

 conviction and the order of sentence, dated 5.2.2003, passed by

 the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Faridabad, whereby the

 appellants were held guilty for the offences punishable under Sections 489A , 489B , 489C and 489D , IPC, and each of them was

 ordered to undergo the following sentences:- 2. The brief facts of the case are that on 11.12.2001, at

 about 5:00 p.m., both the appellants while riding a motorcycle,

 bearing Registration No. UP-14-H-1285, came to Kapoor Lamp

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 2 Chowk, Faridabad, and stopped in front of the Khokha (a wooden

 cabin placed by the side of the road to sell articles) of the

 complainant, Lallan Kumar (PW-1). One of the appellants handed

 over a currency note of `100/- to Lallan Kumar and bought a

 packet of Gold Flake cigarettes. After charging the price of the

 packet of the cigarettes, the remaining amount was returned by

 the complainant to the appellants. After that, both the appellants

 stopped their motorcycle in front of the Khokha of Dinesh (PW-2).

 There also, the appellants handed over a currency note of `100/-.

 Upon this, the complainant, Lallan Kumar (PW-1) became

 suspicious and he checked the said currency note and found that

 the emblem of 'Ashoka' on the currency note was missing and its

 number was 'JCL 88 J 262'. The complainant, Lallan Kumar, went

 to the Khokha of Dinesh (PW-2) and found that the currency note

 given by the appellants to Dinesh was also of the same number.

 He loudly made noise that the appellants were fraud. The

 appellants tried to run away, but were nabbed. The appellants

 disclosed their names as Sachin and Deepak Mathur. Both of

 them were handed over to the police. Vide recovery memo.

 Ex.PB, one motorcycle bearing Registration No. UP-14-H-1285;

 two counterfeit currency notes of the denomination of `100/-

 each, both bearing No. 'JCL 88 J 262'; one black colour bag

 containing 10 packets of Gold Flake cigarettes, currency notes

 totaling `800, and change (coins) of `45/-, were recovered.

 Personal search of appellant No. 1, Sachin, resulted in the

 recovery of three currency notes of `100/- each, which were also

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 3 bearing the same serial number, i.e. 'JCL 88 J 262', from the right

 side pocket of his pant and one registration certificate of

 motorcycle No. UP-14-H-1285, from the pocket of his shirt, which

 were taken into possession vide separate recovery memo

 Ex.PB/1. When appellant No. 2, Deepak, was being searched on

 the basis of suspicion, he took out two currency notes of `100/-

 each from the right side pocket of his pant and tried to tear the

 same. On verification, the number of both the said currency

 notes was also found as 'JCL 88 J 262'. Besides this, one driving

 licence was also recovered from the pocket of his shirt. The said

 torn currency notes and the driving licence were also taken into

 possession vide recovery memo Ex. PB/2. 3. The appellants were interrogated and during the said

 period they suffered their disclosure statements (Exs. PK & PK/1)

 and on the basis of the same, appellant No. 1, Sachin, got

 recovered one computer monitor (make Samsung), one CPU, one

 key board (make BTC), one mouse, a cord and a paper from the

 Almirah which was containing two prints of the currency note of

 the denomination of `50/-. All these articles were taken into

 possession vide recovery memo Ex. PK/2. 4. The appellants also suffered disclosure statements

 (Exs. PB/3 & PB/4) and on the basis of the same, counterfeit

 currency notes of the denomination of `100/- each were

 recovered from Umesh Kumar (PW3) and Bhushan (PW4), vide

 recovery memos. Exs. PE and PF/1. All the said currency notes

 were got checked from the Reserve Bank of India and opinion

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 4 (Ex.PI) was obtained. 5. In the interregnum, a police memo. (Ex. PA) was sent

 to the police station, on the basis of which formal FIR (Ex. PA/2)

 was recorded. The formalities of the investigation were

 completed. During investigation, a report (Ex. PX) with regard to

 fake currency was also obtained from Nasik. After completion of

 the investigation, the charge-sheet (report under Section 173 ,

 Cr.P.C.) was presented before the learned Area Judicial

 Magistrate. Since the offences punishable under Sections 489A , 489B , 489C and 489D , IPC, were exclusively triable by the Court

 of Session, therefore, the case was committed to the said Court. 6. The appellants were charge-sheeted for the offences

 punishable under Sections 489A , 489B , 489C and 489D , IPC, to

 which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. In order to

 substantiate its case, the prosecution examined the following

 witnesses: 7. Before completion of the prosecution evidence, the

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 6 learned Public Prosecutor tendered into evidence the report

 (Ex. PX) received from the Nasik Press. 8. The incriminating material appearing on record, was

 put to the appellants in their respective statements recorded

 under Section 313 , Cr.P.C. They denied all the allegations and

 pleaded innocence. 9. No evidence in defence was led. 10. After hearing learned counsel for the parties, learned

 trial Court held both the appellants guilty for having committed

 the offences punishable under Sections 489A , 489B , 489C and 489D , IPC, and awarded various terms of sentences, as has been

 detailed in the initial part of this judgment. 11. Learned counsel for the appellants submitted that not

 a single private person has supported the prosecution version,

 therefore, only on the basis of the deposition of two police

 officials, i.e. PW8 and PW9, the appellants could not be held

 guilty. He further submitted that even if the case of the

 prosecution is taken at its face value, then also they cannot be

 held guilty for various offences for retaining the fake currency

 notes since the prosecution has failed to show that the appellants

 had the requisite knowledge about the fake currency notes. He

 further submitted that the recovery of computer monitor etc.,

 could not be proved since the prosecution has miserably failed to

 establish that the place where from such articles were recovered

 belonged to the appellants. On the strength of the above

 submissions, he prayed for acceptance of the appeal and

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 7 acquittal of the appellants. 12. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State

 vehemently opposed the submissions made by the learned

 counsel for the appellants and submitted that from the testimony

 of PW7, PW8 and PW9, it has been proved by the prosecution that

 the appellants not only retained the fake currency, but they

 knowing it to be a fake currency, used the same. He further

 submitted that it has also been proved from the recovery of

 computer monitor and papers etc. that the appellants were

 preparing the fake currency. Therefore, the learned trial Court

 had rightly held them guilty on all the four counts and awarded

 the appropriate sentences. He also produced the affidavits of the

 Superintendent, District Jail, Sonepat, showing the period of

 incarceration suffered by each of the appellants, which are taken

 on record. 13. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and with

 their able assistance gone through the material available on

 record. 14. Before analyzing the submissions made by the learned

 counsel, it is apposite to have a glance over the four provisions of

 the Indian Penal Code , under which the appellants have been

 held guilty. The relevant excerpts of Sections 489A , 489B , 489C and 489D , IPC, are as under: (emphasis added)

 "489B. Using as genuine, forged or counterfeit
 currency-notes or bank-notes.- Whoever sells to, or buys or receives from,
 any other person, or otherwise traffics in or uses as
 genuine, any forged or counterfeit currency-note or
 bank-note, knowing or having reason to believe the
 same to be forged or counterfeit, shall be punished...
 ..." (emphasis added)

 "489C. Possession of forged or counterfeit
 currency-notes or bank-note.- Whoever has in his possession any forged
 or counterfeit currency-note or bank-note, knowing or
 having reason to believe the same to be forged or
 counterfeit and intending to use the same as genuine
 or that it may be used as genuine, shall be punished...
 .." (emphasis added)

 489D. Making or possessing instruments or
 materials for forging or counterfeiting currency-notes
 or bank-notes.- Whoever makes, or performs, any part of
 the process of making, or buys or sells or disposes of,
 or has in his possession, any machinery, instrument or
 material for the purpose of being used, or knowing or
 having reason to believe that it is intended to be used,
 for forging or counterfeiting any currency-note or
 bank-note, shall be punished......" (emphasis added) 15. Having glanced over the penal law, now it has to be

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 9 discussed as to what offence/offences have been committed by

 the appellants. 16. It is the conceded position that the FIR in the present

 case was registered on the statement of PW1, Lallan Kumar.

 However, he has completely resiled from his previous statement

 and proposed not to support the prosecution version. With the

 permission of the Court, the said witness was thoroughly grilled

 by the learned Public Prosecutor, but nothing could be brought on

 record in favour of the prosecution. The very basis on which the

 FIR was registered and the appellants were arrested becomes

 doubtful from his deposition. Even PW2 Dinesh, PW3 Umesh

 Kumar, PW4 Bhushan, PW5 Arjun and PW6 Punni Lal, from whom

 the appellants had allegedly purchased the articles after paying

 each one of them the fake currency notes of the denomination of

 `100/- each, have not supported the prosecution case. Even they

 have denied that the appellants handed over them the fake

 currency notes and the same were handed over to the police.

 PW8 ASI Munshi Ram is the investigating officer. He had deposed

 in detail with regard to the statement suffered by the

 complainant, Lallan Kumar (PW-1), and forwarding of the police

 memo to the police station for registration of the case on the

 basis of which, formal FIR (Ex. PA/2) was recorded. He did

 depose about the recovery of three currency notes of the

 denomination of `100/- from the person of appellant No. 1,

 Sachin, and two currency notes of the same denomination from

 appellant No. 2, Deepak. He also deposed that after the arrest of

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 10 the appellants, they suffered their disclosure statements and in

 pursuance thereof, appellant No. 1, Sachin, not only got

 recovered a computer monitor and other apparatuses used for

 processing the fake currency notes, but also got recovered a

 paper on which one side of the denomination of `50/- was printed

 at two places. He also deposed that one printer, paper book,

 cutter, pencil, fevi-stick and one scale (Exs. P14 to P20) were got

 recovered by appellant No. 2, Deepak. However, no fake

 currency notes were recovered from his (Deepak) room. PW9 HC

 Ran Singh, who was accompanying PW8, also supported the

 prosecution version and corroborated the deposition suffered by

 PW8 ASI Munshi Ram. From the testimony of PW7 C.L. Puri, an

 official from the Reserve Bank of India, New Delhi Branch, it is

 proved that the currency notes recovered from the appellants

 were fake. Even the report (Ex. PX) received from the Nasik

 Press further strengthens the opinion of PW7 C.L. Puri that the

 currency notes recovered from the appellants were fake. 17. After analyzing the above statements and the

 material, it transpires that appellant No. 1, Sachin, from whom

 not only the computer and other related appliances were

 recovered but the semi processed paper containing two prints of

 one side of the denomination of a `50/- note were also recovered,

 had counterfeited the said currency and, therefore, he had

 committed the offence punishable under Section 489A , IPC.

 Likewise, he was also found in possession of forged or counterfeit

 currency notes having knowledge of the same to be fake ones,

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 11 therefore, he has rightly been held guilty for the offence

 punishable under Section 489C , IPC. It has also emerged on

 record that the computer and other appliances as well as partly

 processed paper containing print of the note of the denomination

 of `50/- would bring his misdeeds within the mischief of Section

 489D , IPC. Therefore, he has rightly been convicted for the said

 offence as well. 18. So far as the conviction under Section 489B , IPC, of

 both the appellants is concerned, the same is not sustainable

 since the prosecution has miserably failed to prove that both or

 anyone of them sold or bought or received from any other person

 or otherwise used as genuine, any forged or counterfeit currency

 note or bank note, knowing or having the reasons to believe the

 same to be forged or counterfeit. Therefore, both the appellants

 deserve acquittal of the offence punishable under Section 489B ,

 IPC. 19. So far as appellant No. 2, Deepak, is concerned, the

 prosecution has miserably failed to prove that he knowingly

 performed any part of the process of counterfeiting any currency

 note or bank note etc., therefore, his conviction and sentence for

 the offence under Section 489-A is not sustainable. 20. Likewise, the prosecution has also failed to prove that

 appellant No. 2, Deepak, made or performed any part of process

 of making or bought or sold or disposed of or had in his

 possession any machinery, instrument or material for the

 purposes of being used or knowing or having reason to believe

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 12 that it was intended to be used for forging or counterfeiting any

 currency note or bank note. Mere possession of the printer and

 other related material ipso facto would not give rise to a

 presumption that the said instruments were there for making or

 performing any part of the process of the fake currency notes.

 Therefore, his conviction and sentence under Section 489D , IPC,

 is also not sustainable. 21. Appellant No. 2, Deepak, was found in possession of

 forged or counterfeit currency notes with the knowledge the

 same to be forged or counterfeit, his conviction under Section

 489C , IPC, recorded by the learned Trial Court is affirmed. 22. While hearing learned counsel for the appellants on

 the quantum of sentence, he submitted that the occurrence had

 taken place 12 years back. At that time appellant No. 1, Sachin,

 was 23 years old while appellant No. 2, Deepak, was about 22

 year of age. He further submits that neither of the appellants is a

 previous convict. Even after registration of the present case,

 they are not involved in any other criminal activity. He further

 submitted that both the appellants belonged to the business

 families and after registration of the case both of them have

 joined the main stream of the life. The marriage of appellant No.

 1, Sachin, was solemnized in a respectable family in the year

 2004 and he is blessed with a son and a daughter, and he is

 running his family business. However, he could not make any

 submission with regard to the marital status of appellant No. 2,

 Deepak, but submitted that he has the information that after the

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 13 occurrence, even he (Deepak) is not involved in any other case.

 He also submitted that after filing of the appeal, the substantive

 sentence of the appellants was suspended on 29.1.2004, but they

 did not misuse the said concession in any manner. On the

 strength of the above submissions, he has prayed that the

 appellants be let off since each appellant has undergone more

 than two years of the substantive sentence. 23. Learned counsel for the State submitted that the

 appellants had committed serious offences, therefore, the

 sentences awarded by the learned Court below be maintained. 24. Keeping in view the fact that the appellants have

 suffered the protracted trial and appeal for approximately 12

 years; they are first offender; three currency notes of the

 denomination of `100/- were recovered from appellant No. 1,

 Sachin, and two currency notes of the denomination of `100/-

 were recovered from appellant No. 2, Deepak; during the

 pendency of the appeal, the appellants were on bail, but they did

 not misuse the said concession; both of them have joined the

 main stream of life; and that Sachin has performed his marriage

 and is blessed with two children, therefore, by maintaining the

 conviction of appellant No. 1, Sachin, for the offences punishable

 under Sections 489A , 489C and 489D , IPC, his substantive

 sentences for all the counts is reduced to the period already

 undergone. However, the order of fine passed by the learned

 trial Court shall remain undisturbed. 25. Since appellant No. 2, Deepak, has been acquitted of

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order CRA-S-711-SB-2003 (O&M) 14 the offences punishable under Sections 489A , 489B and 489D ,

 IPC, and his conviction has been upheld for the offence

 punishable under Section 489C , IPC, only, and according to the

 affidavit produced by the learned counsel for the State, he has

 undergone two years, two months and eighteen days of the

 substantive sentence, therefore, his substantive sentence is also

 reduced to the period already undergone by him. The fine and

 the sentence in default imposed by the learned trial Court for the

 offence punishable under Section 489C , IPC, qua appellant No. 2,

 Deepak, shall remain undisturbed. However, the amount of fine

 for the remaining offences for which he has been acquitted, if

 deposited by him, shall be returned to him in accordance with

 law. 26. With the above modifications in the impugned

 judgment of conviction and the order of sentence passed by the

 learned Sessions Judge, Faridabad, the present appeal is partly

 allowed. (NARESH KUMAR SANGHI)
 JUDGE
 August 29, 2013
 Pkapoor

Kapoor Prashant
2013.10.03 14:37
I attest to the accuracy
of this order