1. These petitions under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India have in general questioned admission as members several persons in the Hyderabad Stock Exchange Limited. The Exchange, it is not in dispute, is a public limited company. It is, however, recognised by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) as a Stock Exchange on its willingness to comply with the conditions under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and is thus subject to the control and regulations relating in general to its constitution and in particular, besides other items, to the admission into the Stock Exchange of various classes of members, the qualifications for membership and the exclusion, suspension, expulsion and re-admission of members therefrom or thereinto. The Exchange in its extraordinary General Body Meeting, on 24-8-1992, however, introduced an amendment to its Articles of Association and increased the maximum number of members from 200 to 300. In another General Body Meeting dated 8-10-1992, it has fixed entrance fee at Rs. 7,51,000/- for new

members or as may be decided by the General Body. On 1-12-1992 it sent proposal of approval of the Screening Committee constituted by it to SEBI and also a proposal for a written test for approval. SEBI in its turn on 18-2-1993 approved the amendment, authorised it to charge admission fee of Rupees 6,00,000/- for new members and directed it to follow the guidelines of the Government of India and SEBI and the provisions of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act and the rules framed thereunder. However, on a fresh representation by the Exchange on 4-3-1993 SEBI agreed to Us proposal on 23-3-1993 for the admission fee for the new members of Rupees 7,51,000/-. Further correspondence finally resulted in a letter from SEBI, dated 17-6-1993, approving the procedure for selection of the members by a written examination and on such conditions as were introduced for the new members by the Exchange as directed by SEBI and in accordance with the guidelines in this behalf. The Exchange accordingly published notices on 2-7-1993, 5-7-1993 and 6-7-1993 inviting applications for membership in almost all leading newspapers. It also uent brochures containing informations regarding new membership to all the applicants' and intimated to them on 19-7-1993 the criteria i.e. educational qualifications, experience, financial net-worth; written test and interview and that the applicants would be selected only in accordance with the marks allotted to them, the maximum being 10 marks for eductional qualifications, experience, financial net-worth and written test and 20 marks for the interview. 2. There is no controversy before us that applications were placed before the Screening Committee and such applicants, who failed to qualify on the grounds that they did not satisfy the criteria of educational qualifications experience and finaneial net-worth, were informed accordingly and those who qualified were called for written test. In some cases, however, even after the written test when it was detected that the applicants were not qualified either in the experience criterion or in the financial net-worth, the Exchange informed them accordingly. Main controversy, however, has arisen on account of the
alleged decision of the governing body of the Exchange, allegedly on the recommendations of the Screening Committee, to enter into moderation of the marks allotted in the written test. After the written test, it is alleged, there was some agitation and the Screening Committee recommended to the governing body and the governing body accepted the recommendation and resolved that all the examinees, who had been taken to the written test, would be awarded four points or 20 marks out of 100 irrespective whether they got less than 10 marks in the written test or more than 10 marks in the written test. 3. According to the Exchange, it had the approval of SEBI for allotting marks for each item of the criteria and the decision of moderation also received approval of SEBI. Petitioners, however, have contended that moderation has in fact resulted in awarding of grace marks to all the candidates who went through the written test and has resulted in a total manipulation of the selection of the members in the sense that those who fully qualified and fulfilled all the criteria and performed better than many who failed to qualify in the written test, have been denied the membership whereas persons who failed to qualify in the written test have been admitted as members by the Exchange. Petitioners have alleged that those who have wielded power in the Exchange had filled it with their relatives and nominees as candidates for membership and when they found that such persons were likely to be eliminated on account of their failing to qualify in the written test, they managed to introduce the so called moderation for benefitting them. The Exchange, however, has maintained that there has been good reasons for moderation and the same is a recognised mode of evaluating merit and to make up or compensate for any disadvantage suffered by the examinees in securing the marks on account of unreasonable and stiff question paper set up by the examiner or for having included a question or questions outside the syllabus in any question paper or for such other valid reasons considered good by the concerned University or the academic body. The Exchange has produced on the record the fact

that all candidates were informed that written test would be held at the University College of Arts and Social Sciences, Osmania University, Hyderabad, between 2.30 p.m. and 4.30p.m. on 3-4-1994. Question papers which were prepared by I.I.M., Ahmedabad, were however, of objective type, 100 questions were required to be answered in 90 minutes only. This fact, however, that questions were objective type and were required to be answered in one and half hours only became known to the examinees and all others concerned when the seal of the question papers was opened and question papers were distributed to the examinees in the examination hall. The invigilator distributed the question papers only at 3.00 p.m. and at 4.30 p.m. answer papers were taken from the examinees. Immediately after the examination, according to the Exchange, the examinees protested against the short duration for answering 100 questions as well as against the high standard of the question paper when compared to the minimum educational qualifications prescribed for the membership. Since there was protest at the examination hall and in the premises of the Hyderabad Stock Exchange on 3-4-1994 and thereafter, on other days also affecting the trading activities of the Exchange, the Screening Committee held emergency meeting on 5-4-1994, took a decision of compensating the loss sustained by all the examinees uniformly by way of awarding moderation marks of 20 to everybody. The Screening Committee was satisfied that the question paper was of high, standard compared to the minimum- qualification prescribed, the cut in the duration of the test also affected the examinees and all candidates deserved the benefit of moderation. The governing body of the Exchange approved the same. 4. Writ Petition No. 7041 of 1994 which questioned the awarding of moderation marks of 20 to all the examinees uniformly along with other questions as to the membership, was dismissed in limine. Writ Appeal No. 516 of 1994 has been filed invoking this Court's power under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent. Writ Petitions; however, in which the ground against moderation marks is raised,

have been ordered to be heard along with the
writ appeal. 5. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act (Act 42 of 1956) is enacted to prevent undesirable transactions in securities by regulating the business of dealing therein and by providing for certain other matters connected therewith. A 'Stock Exchange' is defined under Section 2(j) of the said Act to mean "any body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, constituted for the purpose of assisting, regulating or controlling the business of buying, selling or dealing in securities." 'Contract' has been defined under the said Act to mean -- "a contract for or relating to the purchase or sale of securities". 'Securities' under Section 2(h) included "shares, scrips, stocks, bonds, debentures, debenture stock or other marketable securities of a like nature in or of any incorporated company or other body corporate". Any Stock Exchange, Section 3 of the Act says, which is desirous of being recognised for the purposes of this Act may make an application in. the prescribed manner to the Central Government and every application shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed, and shall be accompanied by a copy of the bye-laws of the stock exchange for the regulation and control of contracts and also a copy of the rules relating in general to the constitution of the stock exchange and in particular to the governing body of such stock exchange, its constitution and powers of management and the manner in which its business is to be transacted, the powers and duties of the office bearers of the stock exchange, the admission, into the stock exchange of various classes of members, the qualifications for membership, and the exclu-sion, and re-admission of members therefrom or thereinto and the procedure for the registration of partnerships as members of the stock exchange in cases where the rules provide for such membership and the nomination and appointment of authorised representatives and clerks. Section 4 of the Act speaks of 'grant of recognition to stock exchanges' and states in sub-section (1) thereof that the Central Government if was satisfied, after making such enquiry as may be neces- sary in this behalf and after obtaining such further information, if any, as it required, that the rules and bye-laws of the stock exchange applying for registration were in conformity with such conditions as were prescribed with a view to ensure fair dealing and to protect investors, that the stock exchange was willing to comply with any otter conditions, including conditions as to the number of members, which the Central Government, after consultation with the governing body of the stock exchange and having regard to the area served by the stock exchange and its standing and the nature of the securities dealt with by it, impose for the purpose of carrying out the objects of the Act and that it would be in the interest of the trade and also in the public interest to grant recognition to the stock exchange, might grant recognition to the stock exchange subject to the conditions imposed upon it and in such form as might be prescribed. Sub-section (2) of this section reads as follows: 6. The Act also contains the definition of 'Rules' under Section 2(g) to mean -- "with reference to the rules relating in general to the constitution and management of a stock exchange, to include in the case of a stock exchange which is an incorporated asso- ciation, its memorandum and articles of association. Section 8 of the Act provides as follows: 7. Besides the rules as the document of incorporation and amendments thereto as envisaged under the Act, a recognised stock

exchange is authorised to make bye-laws by Section 9 of the Act, subject to the previous Approval of the Securities and Exchange Board of India for the regulation and control of contracts and in. particular without pre-judice to the generality of the power to provide that the contravention of any bye-laws would render the member concerned liable to one or more of the- following punishments, namely, (1) fine, (2) expulsion from membership, (3) suspension from membership for a specified period, and (4) any other penalty of a like nature not involving the payment of money. SEBI is empowered by Section 10 of the Act to make bye-laws for all or any of the matters specified in Section 9 or amend any bye-laws made by the stock exchange either on a request ,in writing received by it from the governing body of a recognised stock exchange or on its own motion if it is satisfied, after consultation with the governing body of the stock exchange, that it is necessary or expedient so to do and after recording its reasons for so doing. Before we proceed with the matter in controversy before us, we may note that reference to Securities and Exchange Board of India in the Regulations Act 42 of 1956 has been made by way of amendment by the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 with effect from 30-1-1992. Act 15 of 1992 has envisaged the Exchange Board as a body to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market by such measure as it thinks fit. This Act has made provisions for registration of stock-brokers, sub-brokers, share transfer agents, etc., and it is conceded, the Exchange is one such person registered with SEBI for it is involved in the business of contract for or relating to the purchase or sale of securities. 8. The Central Government has made Rules in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 of Act 42 of 1956 which included qualifications for membership of a recognised stock exchange. Rule 8 thereof reads as follows: Provided that the governing body may in suitable cases relax this condition with the prior approval of the Central Government; (c) he has been adjudged bankrupt or a
receiving order in bankruptcy has been made
against him or he has been proved to be|
insolvent even though he has obtained his. final discharge; (d) he has compounded with his creditors unless he has paid sixteen annas in the rupee; (e) he has been convicted of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty; (f) he is engaged as principal or employee in any business other than that of securities except as a broker or agent not involving any personal financial liability unless he undertakes on admission id severe his connection with such business: . (i) the governing body may, for reasons, to
be recorded in writing, permit a member to
engage himself as principal or employee in
any such business, if the member in question
ceases to carry on business on the stock 
exchange either as an individual pr as a
partner in a firm, (ii) in the case of those members who were under the rules in force at the time of such application permitted to engage in any such business and were actually so engaged on the date of such application, a period of three years from the date of the grant of recognition shall be allowed for severing their connection with any such business, (iii) nothing herein shall affect members of-a recognised stock exchange, permitted Under the proviso to clause (f) of sub-rule(l) to suspend the enforcement of the aforesaid clause, for so long as such suspension is effective, except that no member of such exchange shall engage in forward business of any kind whether in goods or commodities or otherwise and, if actually so engaged on the date of such application, he shall severe his connection with any such business within a period of three years from the date of the grant of recognition. (4) A company as defined in the Companies Act, !956 (1 of 1956) shall be eligible to be elected as a member of a stock exchange if- (i) such company is formed in compliance with the provisions of Section 322 of the said Act, (ii) a majority of the directors of such company are shareholders of such company and also members of that stock exchange; and (iii) the directors of such company, who are members of that stock exchange, have ulti-mate liability in such company: 9. When the Exchange got approval of its proposal to increase the number of members, it seems SEBI directed it to enroll only such persons as members who qualified for being admitted as such a member and directed the Exchange to follow the procedure of inviting applications for the membership from persons fulfilling the following requirements: Admission Fee: Admission fees of Rupees 7,51,000/- is payable of which a sum of Rs.50,000/- should be deposited with the exchange along with the application for membership by means of demand draft drawn in favour of The Hyderabad Stock Exchange Limited and the balance amount in the case of successful applicants shall be payable on selection in three instalments. If the applicant is not admitted to membership, the amount will be refunded without interest. Security Deposit: The successful applicants shall be required To pay Security Deposit as decided by the Board from time to time and abide by Capital Adequacy Norms as prescribed by SEBI from time to time. Minimum Networth: The candidate should have a minimum networth of Rs. 13.5 lakhs, out of which minimum liquid asset should be Rs. 5 lakhs. For the consideration of net-worth, the fixed and liquid assets of spouse and minor children shall also be considered. Selection Critaria: Apart from the above criteria, a written lest and interview will be conducted for selection. 10. To make, it seems, the above rational and with a view to have a reasonable basis for eliminating such applicants who appear to possess the minimum educational qualifications, experience or to fulfill other conditions, a formula of fixing marks at a uniform level for each criteria, except for interview for which 20 marks were reserved, SEBI and the Exchange allotted ten as the minimum to qualify for the interview and the selection including for the written test. Although there is some argument before us that a person possessing the minimum of the wealth making him or her fit to be admitted as a member of the Exchange can be found to be more suitable for the purpose of the business of the Exchange than one who is very rich but not possessed of the requisite calibre, we do not propose to detain ourselves to deal with this and other similar arguments before us except

observing that what is contemplated for the
purposes of security and which in some
respects appear to go beyond the rules of
eligibility or ineligibility for being admitted as
a member of the Exchange, cannot be called
wholly inadmissible or uncalled for, for the
purposes of scrutiny of the candidates for
membership of the Exchange. 11. In Writ Petition No. 6591 of 1994 a challenge is drawn to SEBI to justify how it can issue any directions to the Exchange and it is urged that the power under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act in this behalf is the reserve of the Central Government and not of SEBI. Our attention has been drawn to the rules forming part of the articles of association of the Exchange which give discretion to the governing body of the Exchange to admit members and also provide for the procedure for admitting new members. It is contended that unlessithe rules of the Exchange are amended as contemplated under Section 8 of the Act aforequoled, any restriction of being qualified in accordance with the criteria laid down by SEBI is illegal We have good reasons, however, to overlook this argument and proceed to dispose of the case on other points, as it is not a case of the rules of the Exchange being amended by the guidelines issued by SEBI but of the Exchange being called upon by SEBI to conform to the bye-laws and conditions which are intended to ensure fair dealing to the investors and to protect them. It is imperative, as we have seen, that no dealing in securities is permissible except under and in accordance with the conditions of a certificate of registration obtained from SEBI in accordance with the Regulations made under Act 15 of 1992. The Exchange, although a public limited company, is one such person which has obtained the certificate of registration from SEBI and thus it is bound to function in accordance with the Regulations made under Act 15 of 1992. Section 11 of this Act (15 of 1992) gives to SEBI power to regulate the working of such a person who is dealing in securities and Section 11B, which has been introduced by an amendment Act of 1995, gives to SEBI power to issue directions in the interest of investors, or orderly development

of securities market, or to prevent the affairs of any intermediary or other person, or to secure the proper management of any such intermediary or person. In any case, since the Exchange has made no exception to the directions and. guidelines as given to it by SEBI, those who are outside of the Exchange and are aspiring to become members can have no right to seek interference of the Court in any dealing between the Exchange and SEBI. It is, therefore, a case, in our opinion, in which the only matter that this Court should attend to should be relating to the eligibility of the applicants under the notices issued by the Exchange inviting applications and whether in scrutinising the applications or eliminating applicants the Exchange has committed any illegality or violated any of the rights of the applicants. 12. Learned counsel for the Exchange, however, has urged rather forcefully that the Exchange being a body incorporated under the Companies Act and so being not a State under Art. 12 of the Constitution of India, is not amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this Court. The appellant and the writ petitioners who have sought interference of the Court in the selection of the members by the respondent -- Exchange, have raised a private dispute of a sort. The Exchange is neither a statutory body nor an instrumentality or agent of a State, nor has any public duty to perform in admitting members to itself. 13. Part III of the Constitution of India contains Art. 12 which defines "the State" to include the Government and Parliament of India and the Government and the Legislature of each of th& States and all local or other authorities within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India. What started in 1960s almost as a dissenting voice in a Kerala five Judge Bench judgment in V. Punnan Thomas v. State of Kerala , received the sanction of the Supreme Court as the law of the land in Ramana v. I.A. Authority of India , . The Supreme Court in this judgment has pointed out (Para 14 of AIR): The Supreme Court has said as follows (at p. 1639, Para 14 of AIR): The Supreme Court in this judgment has proceeded to consider various factors such as whether the operation of the Corporation is an important public function, and concluded (para 19 of AIR): 14. This judgment of the Supreme Court is an authority and the law stated in it, which has not been diluted, is that where a Corporation is an instrumentality or agency of Government, it would, in the exercise of its power or discretion, be subject to the same constitutional or public law limitations as Government. The rule inhibiting arbitrary action by Government must apply equally where such Corporation is dealing with the public, whether by \, jy of giving jobs or entering into contracts or otherwise and it cannot act arbitrarily and enter into relationship with any person it likes, at its sweet will, but its action must be in conformity with some principle which meets the test of reason and relevance. 15. Dealing with a case of an Engineering College under the management of a Society registered under the Jammu and Kashmir Registration of Societies Act, 1898 and the Memorandum thereof and referring particularly to one of the clauses of the Memo- randum of Association Which provided for making rules for the conduct of the affairs of the Society and to add, to amend, vary or rescind them from time to time with the approval of the Government of Jammu and Kashmir State and the Central Government and such other provisions which appear to subject the Society to the directions and control of the State Government and the Central Government, the Supreme Court in Ajay Hasia v. Khalid Mujib , has said (at p. 492 para 7): The Supreme Court in this judgment has also pointed out (at p 493): 16. We do not propose to add the above several other judgments of the Supreme Court on the subject, but before we refer to a very important aspect of the law with reference to the power of this Court under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India and some leading judgments of the Courts, including the Supreme Court, we may point out that 'State' as defined under Art. 12 of the Constitution of India alone is not covered by the expansive jurisdiction of the Court under Art. 226 of the Constitution. Article 226 reads: 17. The use of the expression "any person or authority" and including in the expression "authority" in appropriate cases "any Government" indicates the expansion of the power of the Court and that the expression "all local or other authorities within the

territory of India" in Art. 12 of the Constitution is an expression that may be found induded in the expression "authority" under Art. 226 , but is not the same as the "authority" in the latter provision which is more expansive and wider in reach and purport. 18. In Shri Anadi Mukta Sadguru S.M.V.S.J.M.S. Trust v. V.R. Rudani , AIR 1989 "SC 1607 the Supreme Court has dealt with a case of a Science College at Ahmeda-bad, which was being run by a Trust and has temporary affiliation to the Gujarat University under the Gujarat University Act, 1949 , which, of course, later received permanent affiliation as amended by Gujarat Act VI of 1973. The University teachers and those employed in the affiliated colleges were paid in the pay scale recommended by the University Grants Commission. At one stage there was some dispute between the University area teachers Association and the University and the implementation of certain pay scales. That dispute by agreement of parties was referred to the Chancellor of the University for decision. The Chancellor gave his award holding that the revised pay scales should be applicable to all irrespective of the employment under the University and affiliated college. The State Government accepted the award of the Chancellor and issued directions to all affiliated colleges to pay their teachers in terms thereof. The trustees challenged the Government's directive and approached the University to terminate the services of the teachers who were entitled to the revised scale of pay on the ground that they were surplus. The Vice-Chancellor, however, refused the request of the trustees. The trustees then decided to close down the college and -surrendered the affiliation of the college to the University. Teachers moved the High Court. The trustees resisted the prayer on the grounds, inter alia: (I) the Trust is not a statutory body and is not subject to the writ jurisdiction of the High Court; (2) the resolution of the University directing payment to teachers in the revised pay scales was not binding on the trust; (3) the University had no power to burden the trust with additional financial liability by retrospectively revising the pay scales; (4) the claim for gratuity by

retrenched teachers was untenable; and (5)
Ordinance 120E prescribing closure compen
sation was ultra vires of the powers of the
Syndicate. 19. The High Court rejected the above submissions and accepted the writ petitions. The trustees moved the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has in the said judgment considered the question of maintainability of the writ petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution in these words 
 

 "The essence of the attack on the maintainability of the writ petition under Art. 226 may now be examined. It is argued that the management of the college being a trust registered- under the Public Trusts Act is not amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the High Court. The contention in other words is that the trust is a private institution against which no writ of mandamus can be issued. In support of the contention, the counsel relied upon two decisions of this Court: ( a) Executive Committee of Vaish Degree College, Shamli v. Lakshmi Narain , (1976) 2 SCR 1006 : AIR 1976 SC 888 and (b) Deepak Kumar Biswas v. Director of Public Instruction . In the first of the two cases, the respondent institution was a Degree College managed by a registered co-operative society. A suit was filed against the college by the dismissed principal for reinstatement. It was contended that the Executive Committee of the college which was registered under the Co-operative Societies Act and Affiliated to the Agra University (and subsequently to Meerut University) was a statutory body. The importance of this contention lies in the fact that in such a case, reinstatement could be ordered if the dismissal is in violation of statutory obligation. But this Court refused to accept the contention. It was observed that the management of the college was not a statutory body since not created by or under a statute. It was emphasised that an institution which adopts certain statutory provisions will not become a statutory body and the dismissed employee cannot enforce a contract of

personal service against a non-statutory body. The decision in Vaish Degree College was followed in Deepak Kumar Biswas case. There again a dismissed Lecturer of a private college was seeking reinstatement in service. The Court refuse to grant the relief although it was found that the dismissal was wrongful. This Court instead granted substantial monetary benefits to the lecturer. This appears to be the preponderant judicial opinion because of the common law principle that a service Contract cannot be specifically enforced. But here the facts are quite differerit and, therefore, we need not go thus far. There is no plea for specific performance of contractual service. The respondents are not seeking a declaration that they be continued in service. They are not asking for mandamus to put them back into the college. They are claiming only the terminal benefits and arrears of salary payable to them. The question is whether the trust can be compelled to pay by a writ of Mandamus? If the rights are purely of a private character no mandamus can issue. If the management of the college is purely a private body with no public duty mandamus will not lie. These are two exceptions to Mandamus. But once these are absent and when the party has no other equally convenient remedy, mandamus cannot be denied. It has to be appreciated that the appellant-trust was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as Government aid. Public money paid as Government aid plays a major role in the control, maintenance and working of educational institutions. The aided institutions like Government institutions discharge public function by way of imparting education to students. They are subject to the rules and regulations of the affiliating University. Their activities are closely supervised by the University authorities. Employment in such institutions, therefore, is not devoid of any public character (See The "Evolving Indian Administrative Law by M.P. Jain (1983) p 266). So are the service conditions of the academic staff. When the University takes a decision regard- ing their pay scales, it will be binding on the management. The service conditions of the academic staff aje, therefore, not purely of a private character. It has super-added protection by University decisions creating a legal right-duty relationship between the staff and the management. When there is existence of this" relationship, mandamus cannot be re-fused to the aggrieved party. The law relating to mandamus has made the most spectacular advance. It may be recalled that the remedy by prerogative writs in England started with very limited scope and suffered from many procedural disadvantages. To overcome the difficulties, Lord Gardiner (the Lord Chancellor) in pursuance of Section 3(l)(e) of the Law Commission Act, 1965, requested the law Commission to review the existing remedies for the judicial control of administrative acts and commissions with a view to evolving a simpler and more effective procedure. The Law Commission made their report in March, 1976 (Law Com No. 73) it was implemented by Rules of Court (Order 53) in 1977 and given statutory force in 198! by Section 31 of the Supreme Court Act, 1981. It combined all the former remedies into one proceeding called judicial review. Lord Denning explains the scope of this "Judicial review": Article 226 reads: The term "authority" used in Art. 226 , in the context, must receive a liberal meaning unlike the term in Art. 12. Article 12 is relevant only for the purpose of enforcement of fundamental rights under Art. 32. Article 226 confers power on the High Courts to issue writs for enforcement of the fundamental rights as well as non-fundamental rights. The words "Any person or authority" used in Art. 226 are, therefore, not to be confined only to statutory authorities and instrumentalities of the State. They may cover any other person or body performing public duty. The form of the body concerned is not very much relevant. What is relevant is the nature of the duty imposed on the body. The duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation owed by the person or authority to the affected_ party. No matter by what means the duty is imposed. If a positive obligation exists mandamus cannot be denied. In Praga Tools Corporation v. C.V. Imanual , , this Court said that a mandamus can issue against a person or body to carry but the duties placed on them by the Statutes even though they are not public officials or

statutory body. It was observed (at p. 778 of 1969-3 SCR): (at pp 1309-10 of AIR): Here again we may point out that mandamus cannot be denied on the ground that the duty to be enforced is not imposed by the statute. Commenting on the development of this law, Professor De Smith states: "To be enforceable by mandamus a public duty does not necessarily have to be one imposed by statute. It may be sufficient for the duty to have been imposed by charter, common law, custom or even contract." (Judicial Review of Administrative Act 4th Ed. p 540). We share this view. The judicial control over the fast expanding maze of bodies affecting the rights of the people should not be put into watertight compartment. It should remain flexible to meet the requirements of variable circumstances. Mandamus is a very wide remedy which must be easily available lo reach injustice whenever it is found". Technicalities should not come in the way of granting that relief under Art. 226. We, therefore, reject the contention urged for the appellants on the maintainability of the writ petition." 20. The above judgment has shown, what at a mere glance to the language used in Art. 226 of the Constitution of India shows, that the Court has got power throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction to issue to any person or autho-rity including in appropriate cases any Government within those territories, directions, orders or writs, including writs in the nature of Habeas Corpus, Mandamus, Prohibition,

quo warranto and Certiorari or any of them for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution and
for any other purpose. The words "to any person or authority" and the words "for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III and for any other purpose" leave no scope to question the authority of the Court to issue a writ even to a private person, whether it is a living being or a legal entity as a juridical person. Since in respect of the prerogatives, in particular the Courts in India have adopted the rules of prudence, which Courts in England applied to themselves, although in terms for the use of Art. 226 , there is good reason to argue that self-imposed inhibitions of the English Courts are not applicable in India, and what ordinarily is applied to the use of the Writ of Prohibition, Mandamus, Quo Warranto or Certiorari in England is applied by the Courts in India as well. Mandamus, Certiorari, Quo Warranto and Prohibition some times overlap and are interchargeable, yet in cases of private disputes between the parties, or matters concerning the application of private faw or enforcement of a private law, the Courts do not issue Writs like Mandamus, Certiorari, Prohibition or Quo Warranto. It is, however, not unknown that exceptions have been made by the Courts and such exceptions are found justifiable for reasons of the conduct of the parties which on the one hand appeared to affect only a private law, but on the other hand has effect upon the action in rem. 21, In Rohtas Industries v. Its Union , the Supreme Court has said (para 9): 22. The Supreme Court has made these observations in a case in which the award of an arbitrator was under challenge. The arbitrator was appointed under a memorandum of agreement under which the management as well as the registered Union and two unregistered Unions were parties. One of the contentions before the Court was that an award under S. 10-A of the Industrial Djsputes Act savours of a private arbitration and is not amenable to correction under Art. 226 of the Constitution and, even if there be jurisdiction, a discretionary desistence from its exercise is wise, proper and in consonance with the canons of restraint. 23. A Bench decision of the Madras High Court in the case of Film Division, Bombay v. R.M. Seshadri, (1973) 2 Lab LJ 444, is illustrative of the exercise of the power under Art. 226 of the Constitution against a private arbitrator. The Court has observed: 24. In the case of the Workmen of B&C Mills v. State of Tamil Nadu , (1982) 2 Lab LJ 90, the Madras High Court has pondered whether for a person or authority to be amenable to the jurisdiction of the High Court under Art. 226 , it should fall under the category of "other authority" within the meaning of Art. 12 of the Constitution of India. The Court has observed : 25. The Court in this judgment has quoted from Halsbury's Laws of England, Third Edition, Vol. 2, at page 84, which is as follows: 26. The above in fact is echoed in Judicial Review of Administrative Action by Professor De Smith, 4th Edition at page 540, in these words: 27. Garner in his 'Administrative Law',
4th Edition at page 183, has stated: 28. Corpus Juris Secondum, Vol. 55, page 15, also describes mandamus in these words: 29. The Supreme Court in Sohanlal v. Union of India , , has stated: 30. In Praga Tools Corporation v. C.V. Immaneul , , it is observed: 31. There is no dearth of case law on the
subject and this Court has also been not
behind in adverting to some of the aspects of
the broader question as to the jurisdiction of
this Court to issue writs, directions or orders
in exercise of its power under Art. 226 of the
Constitution of India. One can profitably
refer to a Full Bench judgment of this Court in Sri Konaseema Co-operative Central Bank
Ltd. v. N. Seetharama Raju , AIR 1990 Andh
Pra 171. We are tempted to extract a passage
from the said judgment which reads as follows
(paras 21 and 25): The Full Bench has also spoken on the
features of mandamus and certiorari in these
words (para 37-of AIR): Similarly, it was pointed out in Dwaraka v. I.T.O., , that " Article 226 is couched in comprehensive phraseology and it ex facie confers a wide power on the High Court to reach injustice wherever it is found. A wide language in describing the nature of the power, the purpose for which and the person or authority against whom it can be used, was designedly used by the Constitution. But this does not mean that the High Court can function arbitrarily under this Article. There are some limitations implicit in the Article and the others may be evolved to direct the Article through defined channels." The object behind Art. 226 was to strengthen the then existing judicial system, to make it more effective and not to dispense with duplicate, or replicate the existing system. It was not to supplant the existing judicial system, but to confer an additional power in the service of people and Constitution that this extraordinary power was created. It is for this reason that notwithstanding the wide

language of Art. 226 , Courts havs been observing certain self-imposed restrictions upon this power. One of the well accepted limitations upon the exercise of this power is that it is not available to enforce the terms of a contract i.e. a contract which is not statutory in nature. This is so even if one of the contracting parties is the State, a Government or other local authority. This is the:principle affirmed by the Supreme Court in a large number of cases, some of which are Radba-krishna Agarwal v. State of Bihar , AIR 1977 SC 1496; State of Punjab v. Balbir Singh , AIR 1977 SC 1717; Bihar E.G.F. Cooperative Society v. Sipahi Singh , ; Lekhraj v. Deputy Custodian, Bombay , ; Har Shankar v. Deputy E&T Commr. , and finally L.I.C. of India v. Escorts Ltd. , . In Escort 's case, an argument was Urged that inasmuch as the Life Insurance Corporation was an instrumentality of the State, it is debarred by Art. 14 from acting arbitrarily. It is obligatory upon the Corporation, it was contended to disclose the reasons for its action complained of, viz., its requisition to call an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company for the purpose of moving a resolution to remove some Directors and appoint others in their place. This argument was opposed by the learned Attorney-General for the State, contending that actions of the State or an instrumentality of the State which do not properly belong to the field of public law, but belong to the field of private law are not subject to judicial review. Dealing with the said contentions, the Court observed : 32. Before we close our discussion on the question of maintainability of the petitions, we may refer to the judgment of the Supreme Court in Manmohan Singh v. Commr., U.T.,

Chandigarh , . The Supreme Court has observed as follows (at pp. 367-68): 33. We have seen thus that even in respect of prerogative like mandamus the Courts have found situations in which writs have been issued to private individuals like an arbitrator under S. 10-A of the Industrial Disputes Act or interfered with the award which is in the nature of a document of settlement between the parties, found a school administered by a private trust amenable to writ jurisdiction in the case of its not obeying the commands of law to make payment of salary to the teachers in the school and carefully carved out the self-imposed restrictions upon the jurisdiction to point out that one who is obliged to act under the command of statute and has not acted as commanded by law is amenable to writ jurisdiction, whether he is a private individual or a juristic person, but not a State under Art. 12 of the Constitution. The above can be summarised, in our view, in these words: 34. Since we have seen in the scheme of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act incorporation of the rules of the association of the Exchange as statutes and the bye-laws applicable to the Exchange being framed only with the approval of SEBI or as directed by it, it is not possible to hold that they (i.e. rules and bye-laws) do not impose upon the Exchange a public duty. If the Exchange has failed to perform its public duty in the sense that it has gone beyond the mandates of the rules and the bye-laws, or in performance of the same has violated any of the fundamental rights of the petitioners, they (the petitioners) can legitimately maintain petitions before this Cour! under Article 226 of the Constitution. 35. Sujata Manohar, J. (as she then was)
in Sejal Rikeen Dalai v. Stock Exchange,
Bombay , , as a Judge of the
Bombay High Court, has taken the same view
in these words (para 8): 36. A Division Bench of the Patna High Court in Akhileshwar Upadhyaya v. Magadh Stock Exchange Association , , has also accepted the Bombay view in these words (para 4); 37. A single Judge of the Karnataka High Court in R. Jagadeesh Kumar v. P. Sri-nivasan, , has expressed a contra view, it appears, because the facts of the case indicated that the Stock Exchange had taken action to expel a member and the Court was of the opinion that it did not involve performance of any public duty or disregard of ahy law which imposed upon the Exchange any public duty. A Bench of the Kerala High Court in Satish Nayak v. Cochin Stock Exchange Ltd., Ernakulam , , has apparently shown dissent to the view expressed in Sejal Rikeen Dalai v. Stock Exchange . Bombay (supra). But, on facts, the case was similar to the case of R. Jagadeesh Kumar v. P. Srinivasan which a learned Karnataka Judge considered. 38. Since it is conceded that the Exchange accepted the suggestion of the Screening Committee and entered into moderation of a sort and decided to award equal marks in the written test for all those who had appeared in the examination, we are not required to wait for ascertaining the facts in this behalf except to know how the moderation has worked in the case of candidates who were called to appear in the written examination. Two grievances are mainly highlighted for justifying moderation. It is said that candidates

were informed that examinations would be held for a duration of two hours. But when question, papers were made available, it transpired that all objective questions numbering 100 were required to be answered in one-and-half hours time. Accordingly the examination which originally was scheduled for two hours was held for one-and-half hours only and applicants for membership were required to possess the qualification of 12th standard pass, but questions apparently were of high standard which resulted, according to the Exchange, in many examinees not giving proper and correct answers. 39. Moderation which is resorted to appropriately evaluate the response of the students to the question papers and to properly assess their proficiency called standardisation is not an unknown phenomena. It is, however, conceded before us that for standardisation the standard adopted to, is borrowed from R.D.Agarwal's 'Law of Education and Educational Institutions in India', 1982 Edition, Volume II at page 947, which
reads as follows: 40. On a similar plea on behalf of the CBSE in Association of Private Schools affiliated to the CBSE, etc. v. State of Tamil Nadu. (1992) 2 Mad LW 155 one of us (P. S. Mishra, J.) as the Judge of the Madras High Court, speaking for the Court has said : After the table of frequency distribution of marks, it is stated: and it proceeds to add, 
 "Where leniency or severity or differential spreading of the marks is suspected, it is important to scale the marks so that the subjective error of the marker is minimized. The process of scaling or standardisation of marks is to ensure that the frequency distributions from various markers conform to an agreed standard, so that each candidate receives a mark which has been effectively corrected for any anomalies in the marking. In team marking the agreed distribution is usually that of the chief examiner and every care is taken to ensure that the team of examiners conforms. The agreed standardized scale, however, could equally be one to which all examiners, including the chief examiner, conformed." The only permissible standardization recommended thus by the author is standardization of marks to ensure frequency distributions from various markers to conform to an agreed standard so that each candidate received marks which have been effectively corrected for any anomalies in the marking. If there are anomalies in the marking, scaling of marks is recommended, not otherwise." 41. The Court in the said case has concluded that the only permissible standardisation of marks to ensure frequency distribution from various markers to conform to an agreed standard so that each candidate received marks which have been effectively corrected for any anomalies in the marking is, if there are anomalies in the marking, scaling of marks is recommended, not otherwise. The Court in the said judgment has also stated : 42. The view taken by the Madras High Court is not different from the view expressed by the Supreme Court in the case of Umesh Chandra v. Union of India , . That was a case in which, after the answer books at the written examination were valued, it was decided to add two marks to the marks obtained in each paper by way of moderation to all candidates who had appeared for the examination for selection of officers for being appointed in the Delhi Judicial Service. The Supreme Court in the said judgment has observed as follows (para 13): 43. Attempt is made before us to distinguish the judgment of the Supreme Court in Umesh Chandra v. Union of India , (supra) on the ground that there has been no such rule as one for the judicial service with which the Supreme Court was concerned which laid down any condition as to who may be called for the viva voce. What, however, is revealed in the case in hand is that the Exchange had started with a clear representation that those who shall qualify in the written test by obtaining more than ten marks alone shall be called for interview, provided, however, that they also qualified in other criteria. Uniform moderation marks has resulted in putting above successful candidates in the written test as many as 31 persons. They have stolen march on account of the so-called moderation marks over others who qualified in spite of the alleged high standard of the question papers and duration of the examination reduced from two hours to one and half hours. The so-called moderation marks have come to them as bonus marks and obviously has denied to several others, including petitioners before us, selection for the viva voce as they are qualified otherwise. All such persons who have been shown successful in the written test only by the so-called moderation marks are respondents in Writ Petition No. 12250 of 1995. 44. We have no hesitation for the above reasons to hold that all of them have been wrongly selected and taken as members at the cost of others, who, but for the bonus marks, woud have been selected if not found unsuitable in the viva voce. Petitioners have made out a case, in our opinion, for Court's intervention with the selection of all these respondents. 45. Before we part with this judgment, we have felt that the Government of India and SEBI have almost made the guidelines mechanical in application and the Exchange has also adopted the same as a rule to find out who qualifies as being possessed of the required amount of liquid cash and property or experience. While these may be relevant for testing the solvency of the member and experience for the type of work members of the Exchange are required to do, merely because someone is able to show his possession of wealth without showing how he has acquired it, there is a chance of many unscrupulous persons entering as members of the Exchange and indulging in activities to enrich themselves at the cost of the public at large. If the recent happenings with the key role of stock brokers have not given any lesson, there is a chance of such persons taking over the control of the Exchange who shall have no regard to the norms of the trace. While solvency, as we Have observed earlier, is important, it should be examined whether the assets are genuine and truly belong to the applicant who seeks membership and that he has not

arranged such assets or obtained by questionable means and methods. It is time, we feel persuaded to observe, for the Stock Exchanges to realise that they are not trading in an individual capacity; they are doing some kind of institutional business for which the institution must enjoy the confidence of the people. The Government of India and SEBI shall do service to the people by seeking a declaration of assets of members of the Stock Exchanges and also information as to the source from which assets have been procured and evolve some method by which profits by the members of the Stock Exchanges and their agents are kept under watch and control so that they do not take advantage of the position of the member of the Exchange and repeat scams at the cost of the fair name of the country. In the applications which we dispose of to-day, we have such, statements which show wealth of the petitioners therein which create doubt about their genuineness.; The respondent-Exchange, SEBI and the Central Government thus, in our opinion, shall be taking the blame of permitting such persons, to become members, if proper precautionary measures are not introduced by way of rules, bye-laws or even guidelines issued either by SEBI or the Central Government. 46. For the reasons stated above, we hold that respondents 4 to 34 in Writ Petition No. 12250 of 1995 have been wrongly admitted as members of the Exchange. As a consequence, a writ in the nature of Mandamus has to issue to the respondent Exchange to issue orders removing them from membership. We are, however, not persuaded to issue direction to treat those who have qualified in the written test without moderation marks as successful candidates for being called for interview and on being selected for being admitted as members of the Exchange. It will be fair, in our opinion, if the Exchange is directed to invite fresh applications to fill in the vacancies created on account of the removal of respondents 4 to 34 (in W. P. No. 12250 of 1995) as members of the Exchange and if so advised, before new members are taken, SEBI and the Central Government shall issue necessary directions for screening

unscrupulous applicants. 47. In the result, Writ Appeal No. 516 of 1994 and Writ Petition Nos. 11453, 11275, 12015 and 12250 of 1995 are allowed to the extent indicated above. Respondent-Exchange, SEBI and the Central Government are directed to forthwith remove respondents 4 to 34 (in W. P. No. 12250 of 199-5) from the membership of the respondent-Exchange and proceed to invite fresh applications in the, light of the observations made in the judgment above. It is, however, made clear that; respondents 4 to 34 shall be deemed to be members for completion of the transactions already undertaken by them, but shall not be allowed to take up any fresh transactions. 48. An oral prayer is made for certificate for appeal to the Supreme Court as contemplated under Article 134-A. We are, however, of the opinion that no question of the nature referred to in Clause (1) of Article 132 or Clause (1) of Article 133 of the Constitution of India is available for appeal to the Supreme Court. The prayer is refused. 49. Order accordingly.