1. Briefly stated, accused Balwant Kaur and Manik Varman
were put to the trial for the offence punishable u/s 33 Delhi
Excise Act, 2009 and u/s 188 / 34 IPC on the allegations that on
31.03.2020 at about 01:50PM at Jaitpur Village near Panchsheel

 Digitally
 signed by
 CHHAVI
 CHHAVI BANSAL
 FIR No. 91//2020 PS K. Jaitpur State v. Balwant Kaur and Manik Varman No.1 of 7 BANSAL Date: 11. In order to prove the recovery of the illicit liquor from
accused, prosecution has relied upon seizure memo and
testimony of the two witnesses, who all are police witnesses. 12. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused were
apprehended and the illicit liquor was recovered from them at
around 01:50PM from a public place and despite that, no
independent public person has been made as a witness. Absence
of public witnesses in such circumstance makes the manner of
conducting of inquiry, seizure and search etc. on the spot of arrest
 Digitally
 signed by
 CHHAVI
 CHHAVI BANSAL
 BANSAL Date: 13. With respect to the same, testimony of IO is being
discussed who has deposed that after apprehension of the
accused, public persons were available at the spot. IO has stated
that he requested public persons to join the investigation, but all
the public persons refused to join the same and left the spot
without disclosing their names and addresses. However, perusal
of the record shows that no written notice was served on the
public persons by IO and in absence of the written notice,
explanation given by IO cannot be accepted by this Court. 14. In the case of Anoop vs. State , 1992 (2) C.C. Cases 314
(HC), the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has held under: 15. In view of the same, a mere statement of non-availability
or unwillingness of public person to join as a witness will not be
sufficient particularly when at the relevant time, it was not
difficult to procure the presence of public witnesses. Therefore,
 Digitally
 signed by
 CHHAVI
 CHHAVI BANSAL
 FIR No. 91//2020 PS K. Jaitpur State v. Balwant Kaur and Manik Varman No.5 of 7 BANSAL Date: 16. Moreover, no evidence was led on the point that the
accused persons violated the necessary Order dated 22.03.2020
issued by the Secretary (Health & Family Welfare), GNCTD.
Thus, there is no material to establish any violation on part of the
accused persons for Section 188 IPC to be made out against the
accused persons. 17. Regarding the offence u/s 33 Delhi Excise Act, the fact of
recovery of the alleged case property from the possession of
accused persons remains clouded which cast a doubt upon the
case of the prosecution and prosecution has not been able to
prove the same beyond reasonable doubt. 18. It is trite in criminal jurisprudence that in order to bring
home a charge against the accused, the prosecution is under
obligation to prove its case against the accused beyond
reasonable doubt on the basis of cogent, convincing and reliable
evidence and in case of any doubt, the benefit must necessarily
be extended to the accused. 19. In view of the facts and circumstances of the present case,
marshalling of evidence placed on record and legal position, this
Court is of the view that prosecution has not been able to
discharge the burden cast upon it beyond reasonable doubt and
 Digitally
 signed by
 FIR No. 91//2020 PS K. Jaitpur State v. Balwant Kaur and Manik Varman No.6 of 7 CHHAVI
 CHHAVI BANSAL
 BANSAL Date: