Brief facts of the prosecution case:- Jai Singh (Linemen) at the premises of accused i.e. Khasra No.722/168, D- FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 1 of 15
 7, Gali No.8, Pratap Nagar, Saboli near Mata Wali Gali, Pole No.NNG-G-
 790, Delhi-110093. At the time of inspection, no meter was found installed
 at site and the user/accused was found indulged in direct theft of electricity
 through single core Black colour illegal wires which were connected to
 BSES Distribution Box. Total connected load was found to be 2.064
 KW/DX/DT which was being used for domestic purpose. Necessary
 videography of the illegal tapping was recorded by the videographer Sh.
 Bani Singh. The inspection report and load report were prepared at the
 spot. The illegal material could not be removed to excessive height and
 seizure memo was prepared accordingly. An advisory notice was also
 issued to the accused but the user/accused refused to sign the same. On the
 basis of inspection, the complainant company assessed the demand to the
 tune of Rs.50,005/-. Accordingly, following the guidelines of DERC, theft
 bill was raised and sent to the accused but accused failed to deposit the
 said amount. Original CD of the said videography alongwith Certificate
 under section 65B of the Evidence Act was also submitted with the
 complaint. Thus, a prayer was made in the complaint to register an FIR
 against the accused under section 135 of the Act. 3. The SHO marked the said complaint (Ex.PW2/7) to Duty Officer
 with the direction to register an FIR and hand over the investigation of the
 case to ASI Illa Khan, the IO of the case. The Duty Officer registered the
 present FIR against the accused under section 135 of the Act and handed
 over the investigation of the case to IO. Thereafter, IO visited inspected
 premises, prepared site plan, served Sohanveer Singh (the landlord of the
 inspected premises) with the notice under section 41 .1A Cr.P.C . IO

FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 2 of 15
 interrogated him. During interrogation, it was revealed that the inspected
 premises belongs to Sohanveer Singh and the user/accused Vishal S/o Sh.
 Rajender Singh was residing in the inspected premises as tenant and said
 Vishal vacated the premises and his whereabouts are not known. IO
 collected copy of GPA pertaining to inspected premises from accused
 Sohanveer Singh as well as his Aadhar Card and Voter I-Card. IO bound
 down the accused Sohanveer Singh vide pabandinama. Despite efforts
 user/accused Vishal could not be traced out. After completion of
 investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the accused Sohanveer Singh. 4. On 25.02.2022, notice for the commission of offences under section 135 / 150 of the Act was given to accused to which he pleaded not
 guilty and claimed trial. 5. In order to prove its case against the accused, the prosecution
 examined following witnesses. In order to put the facts in chronological
 order, the testimony of members of inspection team is being discussed
 first:- 6. After culmination of prosecution evidence, statement of accused
 was recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C. Accused denied the inspection but
 he did not deny that electricity meter was not installed at the inspected

FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 5 of 15
 premises. Accused did not deny that co-accused Vishal (since not traced)
 was his tenant and inspected premises was occupied by his tenant/co-
 accused Vishal at the time of inspection. Accused stated that he has settled
 the matter with the complainant company and he has also made the
 payment and an NOC has been issued. Accused opted not to lead any
 defence evidence. Accordingly opportunity to lead defence evidence was
 closed and matter was listed for final arguments. 7. Final arguments have been heard from the Ld. Addl. PP for the
 State as well as Ld. Counsel for the accused. During the course of
 arguments, Ld. Addl. PP for the State submitted that at the time of
 inspection, no electricity meter was available at the inspected premises. It
 is also submitted that inspected premises belongs to accused Sohanveer
 Singh and during relevant time and user/co-accused Vishal was tenant in
 the inspected premises and thus, accused Sohanveer Singh let the user/co-
 accused Vishal to commit direct theft of electricity. It is further argued that
 the complainant company has proved its case against the accused beyond
 reasonable doubt through the testimonies of prosecution witnesses. 8. Ld. Defence Counsel, on the other hand, argued that accused is
 innocent and he has been falsely implicated in the present case. Accused
 has not committed any theft of electricity. It is further submitted that
 matter has already been settled with the complainant company and
 settlement amount has already been paid and an NOC has already been
 issued in favour of the accused. 9. Before dealing with the factual aspect of the present case, it is

FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 6 of 15
 deemed appropriate to specify the legal position and relevant provisions of
 the Act which are required to be gone into for appropriate disposal of the
 cases pertaining to section 135 / 150 of Electricity Act. The provisions of section 135 / 150 of the Electricity Act are reproduced as under:- section (1) of section 136 , section 137 , or section 138 , on his
 conviction for such abetment, may also be cancelled by the
 licensing authority: FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 8 of 15
 Provided that no order of such cancellation shall be made without
 giving such person an opportunity of being heard. 10. There is a presumption mentioned in the third proviso of Section
 135 (1) of the Electricity Act, 2003 which reads as follows:- 11. As per prosecution case, at the time of inspection, no electricity
 meter was available at the inspected premises and the user/accused Vishal
 (not traceable) was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through
 illegal wires. The inspected premises belongs to accused Sohanveer Singh
 and the user/-co-accused Vishal was residing there as a tenant in the said
 premises. Being owner of the inspected premises, accused Sohanveer
 Singh abetted the user/accused Vishal to commit direct theft of electricity.
 Thus, the onus was on the prosecution to prove these allegations against
 the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt. 12. PW2 Sh. R.B. Yadav (Assistant Manager), PW3 Sh. Sanjay
 Verma (DET) and PW4 Sh. Jai Singh (lineman) and PW5 Sh. Bani Singh
 (videographer) are the material witnesses in this case. They have
 corroborated the allegations made in the complaint Ex.PW2/7 and their
 testimony is in conformity with the documents i.e. inspection report
 Ex.PW2/2, load report Ex.PW2/3, seizure memo Ex.PW2/4 and advisory
 notice Ex.PW2/5. 13. PW3 Sh. Sanjay Verma (DET) was also one of the members of

FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 9 of 15
 the inspection team. He has corroborated the testimony of PW2 and also
 deposed that the illegal wires could not be removed due to excessive
 height. 14. PW4 Sh. Jai Singh (Lineman) was also one of the members of
 the inspection team. He has corroborated the testimony of PW2 and PW3
 and also deposed that the illegal wires could not be removed due to
 excessive height. 15. It is clear from the testimony of PW2, PW3 and PW4 that on
 28.06.2019, at about 8.15 am, an inspection was carried out at the
 premises of accused by the inspecting team members/officials of
 complainant company and at the time of inspection, no electricity meter
 was found installed and this fact has not been disputed by the accused at
 all. It is further clear from the document/GPA Mark A as well as testimony
 of PW1 SI Illa Khan that the inspected premises belongs to accused
 Sohanveer Singh and this fact has not been disputed by the accused at all.
 It is also clear from the testimony of PW2 and PW3 that co-accused/user
 Vishal was residing in the inspected premises as a tenant and accused
 Sohanveer Singh has not disputed this fact in the cross-examination of
 PW2 and PW3 as well as in his statement under section 313 Cr.P.C. It is
 further clear that the user/accused was found indulged in direct theft of
 electricity through single core Black colour illegal wires which was
 connected to BSES Distribution Box. In his statement, accused did not
 deny that there was no electricity meter installed in the inspected premises.
 Inspection proceedings were recorded by videographer Sh. Bani Singh and
 CD containing videography of the said inspection proceedings was

FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 10 of 15
 brought on record as Ex.PW2/1. It is also clear from the testimonies of
 PW2 and PW3 that the Black Colour illegal wires could not be removed
 by the lineman/PW4 and seized at the spot and this fact has not been
 disputed by the accused in the cross-examination of PW2, PW3 and PW4.
 Perusal of cross-examination of PW2, PW3 and PW4 shows that though,
 the accused endevaoured to dispute the factum of inspection, preparation
 of inspection documents, seizure memo and videography of the inspection
 proceedings, however, he has not specifically disputed the factum of
 preparation of the relevant documents, the contents and authenticity of the
 inspection report and CD containing videography of the inspection
 proceedings. PW2 has deposed that inspection documents alongwith
 advisory notice Ex.PW2/5 were prepared at site. Accused has not
 specifically disputed the genuineness of assessment of load assessed by
 the complainant as mentioned in the load report Ex.PW2/3. During
 evidence, PW2, PW3 and PW4 identified the video recorded by
 videographer/PW4 Sh. Bani Singh. Accused has also not disputed the
 identity of the inspected premises shown in the video contained in the CD
 Ex.PW2/1. In his statement under section 313 Cr.P.C, accused has also
 admitted that co-accused Vishal was his tenant who was residing in the
 inspected premises during relevant time. Thus, inspection proceedings
 conducted at the time of inspection as well as videography of inspection
 proceedings recorded by videographer Sh. Bani Singh stands proved. 16. PW2 and PW3 have clearly deposed that accused/user Vishal
 (since not traceable) was found indulged in direct theft of electricity
 through illegal wires. It is also clear from the statement of PW1 as well as

FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 11 of 15
 document i.e. copy of GPA Mark A that the inspected premises belongs to
 accused Sohanveer Singh. It is also clear from the statement of PW2 and
 PW3 as well as statement of accused Sohanveer Singh recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C that at the time of inspection, co-accused Vishal (not
 traceable) was residing as tenant of accused Sohanveer Singh in the
 inspected premises. Thus, in view of settled provision of section 150 of the
 Act, the accused Sohanveer being the landlord of the inspected premises is
 liable for abetment of the offence as he let the user/accused Vishal (since
 not traceable) commit direct theft of electricity through illegal wires.
 Accused has simply denied the inspection and stated that he was not
 indulged in any type of theft of electricity and that the documents
 regarding the inspection proceedings were not prepared at the spot. During
 evidence before the court, CD (Ex.PW2/1) containing video clip of
 inspection proceedings was played before the court which depicted the
 manner in which user/accused Vishal was indulged in direct theft of
 electricity through illegal wires. 17. In view of the statutory presumption mentioned in the third
 proviso of section 135 (1) of the Act, once the prosecution successfully
 establishes the charges against the accused regarding the theft of
 electricity, it is to be presumed that accused has committed theft of
 electricity unless accused brings some evidence on record to rebut the
 presumption. In view of the discussions made in the preceding paras, it is
 held that the prosecution has proved the charges against the accused that
 the user/co-accused Vishal (since not traceable) who was tenant of
 accused, was indulged in direct theft of electricity, in connivance with

FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 12 of 15
 accused Sohanveer Singh and therefore, in view of the third proviso of section 135(1) of the Electricity Act 2003, it is to be presumed that
 accused said user/co-accused Vishal (since not traced) was indulged in
 direct theft of electricity, in connivance with accused Sohanveer Singh, if
 they are unable to rebut the statutory presumption. 18. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case reported as '2001 (6) SCC
 16 titled as Hiten P. Dalal vs Bratindranath Banerjee ' has laid down
 the law related to the rebuttal of statutory presumption. Relevant portion
 of the para no.16 is reproduced as under:- 19. In view of the settled law, now it is to be seen if the accused has
 taken any defence to rebut the presumption existed against him. Accused
 has simply stated in his statement recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C that
 he is innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case. He stated that
 he has already settled the dispute and settlement amount has already been
 paid by him and an NOC has also been issued. Accused did not lead any
 defence evidence. If the tenant/co-accused (Vishal) was not indulged in
 direct theft of electricity or that he was using the electricity through any
 legal means, then the accused Sohanveer Singh, who is the landlord of the
 inspected premises, was liable to rebut the statutory presumption by
 disproving the allegations made in the complaint by leading relevant
 defence evidence. It is admitted position of fact that accused Sohanveer
 Singh was owner of the inspected premises during relevant time, which

FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 13 of 15
 was let out to co-accused Vishal (not traced). It is clear from the evidence
 led by prosecution that at the time of inspection, co-accused Vishal (since
 not traced) was indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wires.
 Accused has not brought any material on record or lead any evidence to
 disprove all these allegations. Thus, it is held that accused has failed to
 rebut the statutory presumption. In this regard, this court is supported by
 the judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi reported as 'Mukesh
 Rastogi vs North Delhi Power Limited' reported as 2007 (99) DRJ108.
 The observations made by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi are reproduced as
 under:- 20. In view of aforesaid discussions, it is held that the prosecution
 has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the user/co-accused Vishal was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wires which was
 connected to BSES Distribution Box. It is also proved on record that
 inspected premises belongs to accused Sohanveer Singh and at the time of
FIR No.300/2019 State vs Sohanveer Singh 14 of 15
 inspection and he had let out the inspected premises to his tenant/user
 Vishal who was indulged in direct theft of electricity. Thus, accused
 Sohanveer Singh is guilty of abetement of offence of direct theft of
 electricity. Accordingly he is convicted for the offences punishable u/s
 135 / 150 of the Electricity Act 2003. File be taken up again as and
 when user/co-accused Vishal is arrested.