1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant and Shri Rohit Tripathi, learned counsel for the respondent Enforcement Directorate and perused the record. 2. The present bail application has been filed seeking enlargement of the applicant on bail in Complaint Case No.41 of 2015 arising out of ECIR/08/VSI/2011/AD (NKD), Sessions Case No.125 of 2023, under Section 3 / 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (in short 'P.M.L.A.'), Police Station Directorate of Enforcement, District Prayagraj. 3. Submission of the learned counsel for the applicant is that initially an ECIR No.41 of 2015 was filed against the applicant as an accused alleging that the applicant has committed the offence punishable under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act . It was also stated that the proceedings under P.M.L.A. were initiated on the basis of the predicate offence which was Case No.557 of 2008 registered on 6.8.2008 at Police Station Dumariya Ganj under Section 489B and 489-C I.P.C. against the applicant and two other accused. It also appears from the record that the applicant and the co accused were arrested with fake Indian currency notes on 29.7.2008. 4. It is also informed at the bar that the applicant was ultimately convicted in the said case crime no. 557 of 2008. it also appears from the record that another case crime no.252 of 2008 was also registered under Sections 489-B and 489-C I.P.C. against four persons including the applicant. The said F.I.R.was lodged on 16.9.2008. It is also on record that the applicant was convicted in case arising out of the case crime no.254 of 2008. After the conviction of the applicant in the said two cases, the ECIR was filed against the applicant in the year 2015 proposing to try the applicant for the alleged commission of offence under the P.M.L.A. 5. For the sake of brevity, the details contained in the complaint are not being incorporated hereinunder. 6. Thereafter, a supplementary complaint was also filed on 17.12.2021 which was supplementing the allegations in the complaint case no.41 of 2015. In the said case, summons were issued and thereafter the applicant was arrested during the pendency of the said complaint case and is in custody since 29.5.2023. 7. In short, the submission of learned counsel for the applicant is that in the predicate offence, after the conviction, the present ECIR was filed. He further argued that the applicant was never arrested by the Enforcement Directorate during the course of the investigation and apparently the applicant is cooperating with the investigation and thus there is no need for the applicant of being taken into custody during the pendency of the complaint. He further argued based upon the instructions that not even one witness has been examined so far and the applicant has suffered pre trial detention of more than one year as such the applicant should be enlarged on bail. 8. Learned counsel for the applicant has placed reliance on the judgement dated 16.5.2024 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Tarsem Lal Vs. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office : Criminal Appeal No.2608 of 2024 arising out of Special Leave Petition (Crl. ) No.121 of 2024. 9. Learned counsel for the Enforcement Directorate opposed the prayer for bail by arguing that irrespective of the nature of allegations for grant of bail, it is essential that the test specified under Section 45 of the P.M.L.A. be followed. He further argued that the predicate offence against the applicant were of serious nature affecting the economy of the country and thus no leniency should be shown to the applicant while considering his bail application. He further argued that the case laws relied upon by the learned counsel for the applicant would not be applicable in the present case inasmuch as in the said case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court was considering the anticipatory bail of the appellant. He however does not deny the fact that the applicant was not arrested during the stage of investigation by the Directorate of Enforcement. 10. In short, the submission of learned counsel for the Enforcement Directorate is that principles of law as laid down in the case of Tarsem Lal (supra) would not be to the benefit of the applicant who has applied for regular bail and is in custody. 11. Considering the submissions made at the bar, it is essential to note the salient features of the law as explained by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Tarsem Lal (supra). The Hon'ble Supreme Court was dealing with the case of the appellant who has been denied the benefit of anticipatory bail by the orders which were impugned before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Hon'ble Supreme Court after noticing the scheme of the Code of Criminal Procedure as well as the provisions of P.M.L.A., observed as under ( relevant paragraphs 9 and 10) :- Explanation.-In this subsection, "High Court" means the High Court of the State in which a Sessions Court designated as Special Court was functioning immediately before such designation. (2)..................................................." Section 44 (1)(d) provides that while trying a scheduled offence or offence under the PMLA, a Special Court shall hold the trial in accordance with the provisions of the CrPC as they apply to trial before a Court of Session. A Special Court is a Court of Session. Therefore, Section 437 will not apply when an accused appears before the Special Court after a summons is issued on a complaint under Section 44 (1)(b) of the PMLA. 12. Hon'ble Supreme further recorded the conclusion in the aforesaid judgement which is quoted as under :- While cancelling the warrant, the Court can always take an undertaking from the accused to appear before the Court on every date unless appearance is specifically exempted. When the ED has not taken the custody of the accused during the investigation, usually, the Special Court will exercise the power of cancellation of the warrant without insisting on taking the accused in custody provided an undertaking is furnished by the accused to appear regularly before the Court. When the Special Court deals with an application for cancellation of a warrant, the Special Court is not dealing with an application for bail. Hence, Section 45(1) will have no application to such an application; h) When an accused appears pursuant to a summons, the Special Court is empowered to take bonds under Section 88 of the CrPC in a given case. However, it is not mandatory in every case to direct furnishing of bonds. However, if a warrant of arrest has been issued on account of nonappearance or proceedings under Section 82 and/or Section 83 of the CrPC have been issued against an accused, he cannot be let off by taking a bond under Section 88 of the CrPC, and the accused will have to apply for cancellation of the warrant; i) After cognizance is taken of the offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA based on a complaint under Section 44 (1)(b) , the ED and its officers are powerless to exercise power under Section 19 to arrest a person shown as an accused in the complaint; and j) If the ED wants custody of the accused who appears after service of summons for conducting further investigation in the same offence, the ED will have to seek custody of the accused by applying to the Special Court. After hearing the accused, the Special Court must pass an order on the application by recording brief reasons. While hearing such an application, the Court may permit custody only if it is satisfied that custodial interrogation at that stage is required, even though the accused was never arrested under Section 19 . However, when the ED wants to conduct a further investigation concerning the same offence, it may arrest a person not shown as an accused in the complaint already filed under Section 44(1)(b) , provided the requirements of Section 19 are fulfilled." 12. In view of the law as explained and extracted above, by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Tarsem Lal (supra), what emerges is that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has explained that once the applicant has not been arrested during trial, as a normal course after the complaint is filed, the court would summon the accused and not issue warrant. It further emerges that after the summons are issued, on taking cognizance of the offence punishable under Section 4 of the P.M.L.A., on a complaint and the accused appears before the Special Court pursuant to the said summons, he shall not be treated as in custody and the Hon'ble Supreme Court further held that there is no necessity for such an accused to apply for the bail and the special court can at best direct him to file bonds in terms of Section 88 of the Cr.P.C. The furnishing of bonds on the direction of the special court under Section 88 Cr.P.C. was also interpreted to hold that the same would not amount to grant of bail. 13. In view of the law as explained above by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Tarsem Lal(supra), it is difficult for this court to accept the argument of learned counsel for the Enforcement Directorate that the principles as laid down, would apply only to the cases of persons who apply for anticipatory bail and not in the case of persons who apply for regular bail after being arrested. The judgement of Tarsem Lal (supra) with regard to custody during trial is fully attracted to the facts of the present case. 14. In sum and substance, as per the Tarsem Lal's case (supra), there is neither any need to arrest the accused after the complaint is filed, specially in the cases of persons who were not arrested during investigation nor is there any need for such persons to apply for bail and are required to furnish bonds as may be directed by the special court. 15. Considering and following the law as explained above, a clear case for grant of bail is made out in favour of the applicant. I am not going into the question of validity of arrest by the special court after issuance of summons. 16. For the reasons recorded above, the application for enlargement of applicant on bail is allowed. 17. Let the applicant Abid Ali be released on bail in Complaint Case No.41 of 2015 arising out of ECIR/08/ VSI/2011/AD (NKD), Sessions Case No.125 of 2023, under Section 3 / 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, Police Station Directorate of Enforcement, District Prayagraj on his furnishing a personal bond and two reliable sureties of Rs.50,000/- each to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions :- Order Date :- 30.5.2024
 
Shukla