% 29.07.2025 1. The present petition is filed challenging the arrest of the
 petitioner on 20.04.2025 and 21.04.2025 in FIR No. 170/2025
 dated 08.04.2025, registered at Police Station Paschim Vihar
 West, for offences under Sections 420 / 406 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120B / 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 as being illegal, on the ground
 that the arrest has been made in violation of Articles 21 and 22 of
 the Constitution of India. 2. The FIR was registered pursuant to a complaint filed by
 the complainant namely-Parminder Singh, alleging that a
 fraudulent crypto currency-based Multi-Level Marketing
 investment scheme was being operated under the name of
 Upnomis and ORIS Coin. It is alleged that the said scheme was W.P.(CRL) 1355/2025 Page 1 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2025 at 22:54:24
 being orchestrated by co-accused namely- Tarun Trikha, along
 with his other associates, including the petitioner. 3. It is alleged that the accused persons including the
 petitioner, presented themselves as operators of legitimate
 fantasy gaming and online betting platforms, luring the public
 into investing by offering fraudulent schemes that promised
 extremely high returns. 4. The complainant alleged that a total investment of
 ₹10,00,000/- was made by him in the investment scheme of the
 accused perrons, however, despite repeated assurances, the
 promised returns were not provided to him. 5. It is the case of the prosecution that the petitioner at the
 time of registration of the FIR was in judicial custody in a Thane
 Jail in connection with FIR No. 2081/2024. The respondent
 authority took permission to interrogate the petitioner in Thane
 Jail, Mumbai and after interrogation, arrested him on 20.04.2025
 in the present FIR. 6. The petitioner was produced before the learned Judicial
 Magistrate First Class ('JMFC'), West District, Tis Hazari
 Courts on 21.04.2025. 7. The learned JMFC, on the said date, directed the release of
 the petitioner with immediate effect, noting that the grounds of
 arrest that have been given to the petitioner, do not contain full
 particulars of the offence. The respondent authority was also
 given liberty to re-arrest the petitioner after giving full particulars
 of the offence on the grounds of arrest. 8. The petitioner, it appears was arrested on the same date,
 that is, on 21.04.2025 and was allegedly supplied with grounds
 of arrest. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2025 at 22:54:24 9. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner submits that the
 arrest of the petitioner is illegal. He submits that it is improbable
 that any grounds of arrest could have been supplied to the
 petitioner on the said date. 10. He submits that once the learned JMFC had directed
 release of the petitioner, it is highly improbable that the
 respondent authority drafted the fresh grounds of arrest in the
 Court premises itself and re-arrested the petitioner. 11. He submits that the grounds of arrest as claimed to have
 been supplied to petitioner for the second time, when he was
 arrested, also mentions the date and time of arrest to be
 20.04.2025 at 01:00 PM. He submits that the same clearly
 indicates that said grounds of arrest was a cyclostyled document
 without any application of mind. 12. He submits that even otherwise the said grounds of arrest
 do not contain the grounds as required to be given to the accused
 person, so as to enable him to defend his case. He submits that
 general allegations have been made in the grounds of arrest
 without indicating the nature of case. 13. Pursuant to the order passed by the learned JMFC
 directing release of the petitioner, a remand application was filed
 by the respondent authority seeking 5 days of Police custody of
 the petitioner. The grounds of arrest provided to the petitioner for
 the second time are reproduced hereunder: The said offences are 420/406/467 /468/471/120-B/34 of IPC . (2) That the offence/s which the accused has committed are
 punishable with following punishment : This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2025 at 22:54:24
 Punishment which may extend to seven years and shall
 also be liable to fine; (ii) Section 406 (read with section 120-B ) of IPC -
 Punishment which may extend to three years, or with fine,
 or with both; (iii) Section 467 (read with section 120-B ) of IPC -
 Punishment with imprisonment for life, or with
 imprisonment of either description for a term which may
 extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine; (iv) Section 468 (read with section 120-B ) of IPC -
 Punishment which may extend to seven years, and shall
 also be liable to fine; (v) Section 471 (read with section 465 ) and (read with section 120- B) of IPC - Punishment which may extend to
 two years, or with fine, or with both; [ Section 120-B is a
 separate offence also]. (3) That the accused is the real culprit in the present case
 and all the sources which he used along with his
 accomplice to induce the complainant and thereby
 committed cheating is yet to be recovered as despite
 possible efforts, and arrest of accused, no such
 sources/documents could be recovered. (4) That the names, addresses and other particulars of
 other accused persons are yet to be verified as no such
 detail is available either with the complainant or any other
 persons, and such information is well within the knowledge
 of accused as the commission of offences which have been
 invoked against the accused is/are not possible only on the
 part of accused or without conspiracy with others.
 (5) That the computer devices/other electronic devices, and
 other sources which the accused has used for placing the
 scheme on an online platform are yet to be recovered, and
 therefore, without arrest and interrogation of accused, the
 possibility of recovery of such devices/sources is very few.
 Hence, the arrest of the accused is imperative in order to
 unearth the truth. (6) That the accused is involved in committing economic
 offences, and by doing such offence/s, he has cheated
 various/numerous persons (victims), and in order to
 ascertain the number of persons (victims), with whom the
 accused has committed cheating, and collected their money
 for investment on false pretext, is yet to be verified and
 without arrest of accused, the verification of such fact/s
 is/are not possible. (7) That the forged documents/computerized documents
 are yet to be discovered which are necessary in order to
 unearth the truth and also for the verification of the same,
 if having endorsement of any other authority or office.
 Such facts are within the knowledge of the accused and
 without arrest, and interrogation of the accused, the W.P.(CRL) 1355/2025 Page 4 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2025 at 22:54:24
 recovery of the same is/are not possible. (8) That the facts/s qua utilization of invested amount of
 complainant and other victims, or investment of the same
 either in purchase of movable or immovable property by
 the accused with his accomplice is yet to be verified and
 hence, the arrest of accused is made in order to secure the
 invested amount which has been collected from the
 innocent persons including complainant. (9) That the accused does not have any permanent address
 of his residence, and also the address of his business place,
 and further, after the registration of present case FIR,
 during investigation, it is found that the accused is already
 in judicial custody in another case. (10) That the accused is involved in commission of various
 criminal offences as mentioned above, which falls within
 the category of economic offences, and such offences are
 causing destruction to the economy system, and the faith of
 innocent people in the business lines which are the
 backbone of the country's economic system and growth.
 Hence, in order to secure such a system, and also to
 prevent him, in future, from committing such offences, the
 arrest of the accused was necessary. (11) That the accused may temper with the evidence or
 may cause the disappearance of the same through his
 associates who are yet to be arrested. Hence, in order to
 secure such evidence for production before the Hon'ble
 Court, the accused has been arrested. (12) That the accused has been informed about the grounds
 of arrest by narrating the entire facts of FIR and others,
 and he has also been informed of his right. to bail in the
 present matter. 14. The application was allowed by the impugned remand
 order dated 21.04.2025 with the observation that the grounds of
 arrest were found to be justified. 15. Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India provides that no
 person shall be detained after arrest without being informed of
 the grounds of arrest as soon as possible. Section 47(1) of the
 BNSS also obligates every police officer arresting any person
 without warrant to communicate to him the full particulars of the
 offence for which he is arrested as well as the grounds of arrest. 16. It is now well settled that mere information of the grounds W.P.(CRL) 1355/2025 Page 5 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2025 at 22:54:24
 of arrest is insufficient and the accused has a fundamental and
 statutory right to be informed about the grounds of arrest in
 writing at the earliest. Non-compliance of the said requirement
 renders the arrest of the accused to be illegal. The Hon'ble Apex
 Court, in the case of Arvind Kejriwal v. Enforcement
 Directorate : (2025) 2 SCC 248, reaffirmed the mandatory
 procedural safeguards that must be followed while arresting an
 individual and held as under: The Court explained that Section 19(1) of the PML Act is
 meant to serve a higher purpose, and also to enforce the
 mandate of Article 22(1) of the Constitution. The right to
 life and personal liberty is sacrosanct, a fundamental right
 guaranteed under Article 21 and protected by Articles 20 and 22 of the Constitution. Reference was made to the
 observations of this Court in Roy V.D. v. State of Kerala
 [Roy V.D. v. State of Kerala, (2000) 8 SCC 590 : 2001 SCC
 (Cri) 42] that the right to be informed about the grounds of
 arrest flows from Article 22(1) of the Constitution and any
 infringement of this fundamental right vitiates the process
 of arrest and remand. The fact that the charge-sheet has
 been filed in the matter would not validate the otherwise
 illegality and unconstitutionality committed at the time of
 arrest and grant of remand custody of the accused. Reference
 is also made to the principle behind Article 22(5) of the
 Constitution. Thus, this Court held that not complying with
 the constitutional mandate under Article 22(1) and the
 statutory mandate of the UAPA, on the requirement to
 communicate grounds of arrest or grounds of detention,
 would lead to the custody or detention being rendered
 illegal. xxxx 31. Providing the written "grounds of arrest", though a
 must, does not in itself satisfy the compliance requirement.
 The authorised officer's genuine belief and reasoning
 based on the evidence that establishes the arrestee's guilt is
 also the legal necessity. As the "reasons to believe" are W.P.(CRL) 1355/2025 Page 6 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2025 at 22:54:24
 accorded by the authorised officer, the onus to establish
 satisfaction of the said condition will be on DoE and not on
 the arrestee. Xxxxx 44. We now turn to the scope and ambit of judicial review to
 be exercised by the court. Judicial review does not amount to
 a mini-trial or a merit review. The exercise is confined to
 ascertain whether the "reasons to believe" are based upon
 material which "establish" that the arrestee is guilty of an
 offence under the PML Act . The exercise is to ensure that
 DoE has acted in accordance with the law. The courts
 scrutinise the validity of the arrest in exercise of power of
 judicial review. If adequate and due care is taken by DoE to
 ensure that the "reasons to believe" justify the arrest in
 terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act, the exercise of power
 of judicial review would not be a cause of concern. Doubts
 will only arise when the reasons recorded by the authority
 are not clear and lucid, and therefore a deeper and in-depth
 scrutiny is required. Arrest, after all, cannot be made
 arbitrarily and on the whims and fancies of the authorities.
 It is to be made on the basis of the valid "reasons to
 believe", meeting the parameters prescribed by the law. In
 fact, not to undertake judicial scrutiny when justified and
 necessary, would be an abdication and failure of
 constitutional and statutory duty placed on the court to
 ensure that the fundamental right to life and liberty is not
 violated." (emphasis supplied) 17. On being pointedly asked, it is informed that chargesheet
 has since been filed and the investigation is complete. 18. The petitioner is in custody since 21.04.2025 and has
 already spent almost 100 days in judicial custody. At this stage,
 the investigation is complete and the chargesheet has already
 been filed, there is no chance of the accused absconding or
 fleeing, if released on bail. Moreover, the same can also be taken
 care of by putting appropriate conditions. 19. The object of Jail is to secure the appearance of the
 accused during the trial. The object is neither punitive nor
 preventive and the deprivation of liberty has been considered as a
 punishment. The petitioner cannot be made to spend the entire W.P.(CRL) 1355/2025 Page 7 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2025 at 22:54:24
 period of trial in custody specially when the trial is likely to take
 considerable time. 20. Although, there is prima facie merit in the argument raised
 by the petitioner that the grounds of arrest as supplied do not
 satisfy the parameters in the terms of judgment passed by the
 Apex Court, however, considering that the petitioner has even
 otherwise made out a case for bail, I do not consider it apposite
 to comment further upon the issue as to the legality of arrest. 21. In view of the above, the petitioner is directed to be
 admitted on bail in this case (if not in custody in any other case)
 on furnishing a personal bond for a sum of ₹20,000/- with two
 sureties of the like amount, subject to the satisfaction of the
 learned Trial Court, on the following conditions: 22. In the event of there being any FIR/ DD entry/ complaint
 lodged against the petitioner, it would be open to the State to
 seek redressal by filing an application seeking cancellation of
 bail. 23. It is clarified that any observation made in the present
 order are for the purpose of deciding the present writ petition and
 should not influence the outcome of the trial and also not be
 taken as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 24. The petition stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 JULY 29, 2025
 "SK" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2025 at 22:54:24