1. F.I.R. No.455 of 2022 was registered for the offences

punishable under Sections 120-B and 171-B read with Sections 171-A and 34 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 (for short ' IPC ') and Section 8 of

the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (for short ' PC Act '), on the file of

the Station House Officer, Moinabad Police Station, Cyberabad Police

Commissionerate on a report dated 26.10.2022 lodged by respondent

No.8 in W.P. No.39767 of 2022. The said report is as under: "I, Pilot Rohit Reddy, MLA, Tandur Assembly
 Constituency of Vikarabad District, inform you that I am
 an MLA from TRS party and representing the above
 constituency. It is to further inform you that on
 26-09-2022, one Ramachandra Bharati @ Satish Sharma
 native of Delhi and one Nanda Kumar resident of
 Hyderabad both of them belonging to BJP met me and
 negotiated with me to not to contest as candidate from
 TRS party and to join in BJP by resigning from TRS party
 and to contest in the next elections from BJP for which
 they offered me an amount of Rs.100 Crores (Hundred
 Crores) and also offered to give Central Government civil
 contract works and other High Central Government 5 positions for monetary benefits and lured me to join in
BJP. They also stated that if I am not joining in BJP there
will be criminal case and raids by E.D./CBI and the
Telangana Government led by TRS party will be toppled
by them. Since the above inducement of bribe by a
political party to me is unethical, undemocratic and
encouraging corruption and polluting the Politics,
I decided not to entertain such unethical practice by the
above persons. Today i.e. on 26-10-2022, they again
contacted me and informed me that they are coming in the
afternoon hours to my farmhouse located at Azeez Nagar,
Moinabad for negotiation and also informed me to
mobilise some other TRS MLAs for offering them bribe of
Rs.50 Crores each to join BJP. They also further induced
me and other MLAs to receive amounts and to discharge
their public duties improperly and dishonestly so that the
Telangana Government led by TRS party is destabilized.
They informed that three persons namely Ramachandra
Bharati @ Satish Sharma of Delhi, one Nanda Kumar and
one Simhayaji Swamy of Tirupathi would come to my
farm house to finalize the deal of joining in BJP by
resigning from TRS party. Therefore, I request you to
kindly take necessary legal action against the above
persons and the persons behind this conspiracy for
offering me bribe to resign from TRS and also to join in
BJP by indulging in unethical and undemocratic ways of
offering huge amounts as bribe." W.P. No.39767 of 2022 : 2.1. This writ petition is filed by the petitioner - Bharatiya

Janata Party, Telangana, represented by its State General Secretary Mr.

Gujjula Premender Reddy on 27.10.2022 seeking writ of mandamus

declaring action of the respondents in undertaking biased and unfair

investigation in F.I.R. No.455 of 2022 with a sole intention to frame the

petitioner political party and damage its reputation at the instance of the

ruling party dispensation as being illegal, arbitrary and in gross violation

of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India and also contrary to the

settled principles of free and fair investigation and consequently to

transfer the investigation in F.I.R. No.455 of 2022 from the file of

respondent No.5 to respondent No.7 - the Central Bureau of

Investigation, represented by its Director, New Delhi or to constitute a

Special Investigation Team (SIT) to conduct enquiry in the said crime in

a free and fair manner. BRIEF AVERMENTS : election No.ECI/PN/73/2022 dated 03.10.2022. During campaign, as the

BJP Party was getting overwhelming response from the public of

Munugode Assembly Constituency, the ruling TRS Party from the

beginning of the election campaign was trying to disrupt campaign of the

BJP Party and making several efforts to thwart campaigning in the

constituency, but, in spite of the same, the voters of Munugode were

responding positively towards the BJP Party. The BJP Party has

substantial base in the Telangana State and the people had been rooting

for the BJP party as the next alternative to the present dispensation of the

TRS Party. On 26.10.2022 evening, few channels, which publicly

support the ruling Government, carried out news that four (4) MLAs of

the ruling TRS Party are being tried to be lured and poached by the

members of the BJP to join the BJP and discussions regarding the same

are happening at a farmhouse in Moinabad. The said news was

repeatedly aired in the said few channels giving out details of the alleged

operation. Thereafter, in the late hours of 26.10.2022, respondent No.2

along with respondent Nos.3 and 4 - the Commissioner of Police

Cyberabad Commissionerate, Gachibowli, Hyderabad and the Assistant

Commissioner of Police, Rajendranagar Division, Rajendranagar, 8 Hyderabad respectively arrived at the said farmhouse in Moinabad.

Even before the police have arrived at the said farmhouse, certain news

channels were already present at the farmhouse and were telecasting live

pictures from the farmhouse. Upon respondent No.3 and other officials

visiting the farmhouse and on a preliminary search and enquiry at the

farmhouse, police apprehended three (3) persons alleged to be workers

of the BJP as they were allegedly luring the four (4) TRS MLAs to join

its party. 2.3. The four (4) TRS MLAs were left scot free and

surprisingly escorted by the respondents to the Hon'ble the Chief

Minister's residence at Pragathi Bhavan. Thereafter, respondent No.3

stated in a press meet that the three accused have offered four TRS

MLAs a Rs.100 crores cash each to join the BJP in the wake of

Munugode bye-election. On further enquiry, it was revealed that

respondent No.8 - Mr. Pilot Rohith Reddy, who is an MLA from Tandur

Assembly Constituency belonging to TRS Party, lodged a complaint on

26.10.2022 at 11.30 a.m. to the Station House Officer, Moinabad

alleging that the accused persons have approached him on 26.09.2022

and tried to lure him to join the BJP by resigning from TRS Party and to 9 contest in the next elections from BJP for which he would be offered a

huge amount of Rs.100 crores; and consequently FIR No.455 of 2022

was registered with Moinabad Police Station. 2.4. The above complaint is politically motivated with ulterior

motive to defame and demoralise the BJP in the ensuing by-elections of

Munugode Assembly Constituency. The complaint is lodged by

respondent No.8 is staged and is firmly believed by the BJP that the

complaint has been lodged at the behest of the Hon'ble the Chief

Minister Mr. K. Chandra Shekhar Rao, who is also President of the TRS

Party, other State Ministers and senior leaders of the TRS Party. The

facts and motive behind lodging the complaint can only be unearthed by

conducting an enquiry either by the CBI or by the Special Investigation

Team (SIT) or by a sitting Judge of the High Court. The BJP fears that

investigation would not be conducted in a fair and unbiased manner by

the respondents, who are acting on the instructions of the State

Government, and therefore, the investigation may be transferred to a

neutral agency which is not under the control of the State Government. 10 WRIT PETITION No.40733 OF 2022

 3.1. This writ petition is filed by accused Nos.1 to 3 viz.,

Ramchandra Bharathi alias Satish Sharma V.K., Kore Nandu Kumar

alias Nandu and D.P.S.K.V.N. Simhayaji respectively, in F.I.R. No.455

of 2022, seeking writ of mandamus declaring action of the respondents

in undertaking investigation in the said F.I.R. on the file of the Station

House Officer, Moinabad Police Station in biased and unfair manner as

illegal, arbitrary and in gross violation of Articles 14 and 21 of the

Constitution of India and also contrary to the settled principles of free

and fair investigation, and consequently to transfer the investigation in

F.I.R. No.455 of 2022 to respondent No.7 - the Central Bureau of

Investigation, represented by its Director, New Delhi or to constitute a

Special Investigation Team under the supervision of a sitting Judge for

free and fair investigation. BRIEF AVERMENTS : Some audios were released by the media wherein conversations of

respondent No.8 and the accused could be heard which clearly show that

phones were tapped. The tapping of the phones is unauthorised and

hearing to private conversations of any person is in violation of the

provisions of the Indian Telegraphic Act . (2014) 8 SCC 273 12 3.3. The investigation is done under close monitoring and

supervision of the ruling party, more particularly, under the guidance of

the Hon'ble the Chief Minister of Telangana State for political needs.

The investigation is not done in a fair manner. The right of the accused

for fair and unbiased investigation without interference of any political

party has been compromised. In the tussle between both the parties i.e.,

the TRS and the BJP, the petitioners are the sufferers. There is every

scope to fabricate the evidence, create false proofs to see that the accused

are convicted by the investigation agency for political gains of the ruling

party. The State Government is directly involved in the case and it is

necessary that a fair investigation is done, otherwise it would be in

violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. W.P. No.42228 of 2022 4.1. This writ petition is filed by Bhusarapu Srinivas,

Advocate, seeking writ of mandamus declaring the Notice No.455/CR-

RJNR/2022 dated 16.11.2022 under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. issued to

him by respondent No.3 - the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Special

Investigation Team, Police Commissionerate, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad 13 though he is not an accused as illegal, arbitrary, without following due

procedure, unconstitutional, contrary to the provisions of the Cr.P.C .,

violative of principles of natural justice and Article 21 of the

Constitution of India, and consequently to set aside the said notice and

direct the respondents not to insist the petitioner to appear before the SIT

without following due process of law. BRIEF AVERMENTS : RJNR/2022 dated 16.11.2022 in Crime No.455 of 2022. The petitioner

is neither accused nor suspect in the said crime. The impugned notice is

not maintainable as the notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. is related to

accused who are involved in the crime. The said notice is unsustainable

as the petitioner cannot be treated as an accused. The police are acting at

the instance of the political leaders. W.P. No.43144 of 2022 : 5.1. This writ petition is also filed by Bhusarapu Srinivas,

Advocate, seeking writ of mandamus declaring action of respondent

No.1 in issuing G.O. Ms. No.63 dated 09.11.2022 as illegal, arbitrary

and in violation of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India, and

consequently to set aside the said G.O. and handover the investigation in

Crime No.455 of 2022 to respondent No.7 - Central Bureau of

Investigation, New Delhi for fair and free investigation.

BRIEF AVERMENTS : Surprisingly, respondent Nos.4 and 5 have transferred the data from C1

to C6 into pen-drives and handed-over the same to the Chief Minister of

the Telangana State who is not an investigation officer or head of the

department. The Chief Minister has arranged a press conference, shown

the pen drives to the media, transferred the data from the said pen drives

into several other pen drives and posted the same to the Hon'ble the

Chief Justice, other Judges of the Supreme Court and the High Courts

and the political leaders which is against the free and fair investigation

contemplated under the Cr.P.C. 5.5. Respondent No.1 issued G.O.Ms.No.63 dated 09.11.2022

appointing respondent Nos.12, 13 and 14 as Members of the SIT.

The SIT issued notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. to the petitioner on

17.11.2022 calling upon him to appear before it on 21.11.2022 at

10.30 a.m. The said notice was challenged by the petitioner before the

High Court vide W.P. No.42228 of 2022 and the High Court by the order

dated 19.11.2022 directed the petitioner to comply with the conditions

imposed under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C., and further directed that the

petitioner shall not be arrested until further orders. 17 5.6. As per the notice dated 16.11.2022, the petitioner appeared

before the SIT and on the same day, the SIT had issued another notice

under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. mentioning that he has failed to produce

certain documents. The petitioner appeared before the SIT on

21.11.2022 and 22.11.2022. The petitioner was examined by the SIT for

more than 10 hours per day. The petitioner gave necessary information

and despite the same, the SIT is pressurising him to tell the name of

Mr. Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Member of Parliament, BJP President

Telangana Unit particularly and some other names of the BJP leaders.

The petitioner has submitted some documents on 22.11.2022 to the head

of the SIT which they acknowledged. The petitioner filed a memo

before the SIT to submit the video footage before this Court, but the SIT

failed to attest on the memo or produce the same before this Court when

W.P. No.42228 of 2022 filed by him came up for hearing on 23.11.2022.

The petitioner was enrolled as an advocate in 2002 and since then

practising as an Advocate at Karimnagar Courts. Only to defame his

reputation, more than 30 officers have come to his residence in his

absence with an intention to terrorise him for serving the notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. There was no necessity for the police to come 18 with such huge force of 30 officers. As the petitioner did not budge to

the pressure of the police, they have implicated the petitioner as accused

No.7 in the crime. Notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. was issued to

the petitioner though he was not an accused and without mentioning that

the petitioner is suspect in the crime. As of now, even a single evidence

is not collected against the petitioner except his booking a ticket for

respondent No.11 (accused No.3) at Hyderabad. On 22.10.2022, a pooja

was conducted by respondent No.11 at Hyderabad. The petitioner

attended the pooja and he took ticket for respondent No.11 to travel from

Hyderabad to Tirupati on 23.10.2022 and also booked return flight ticket

for 26.10.2022. Respondent Nos.4 and 5 have failed to conduct

preliminary investigation on 26.10.2022 and 27.10.2022. Further, they

leaked some important information to the Hon'ble the Chief Minister

who in turn conducted a Press Meet and sent pen-drives to all the

political leaders in India and the Hon'ble the Chief Justice of India and

the Judges of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the High Courts. The SIT

was constituted by respondent No.1 vide G.O. Ms. No.63 dated

09.11.2022 to cover up lapses on the part of the Hon'ble the Chief

Minister. W.P. No.43339 of 2022 : BRIEF AVERMENTS : Respondent No.7, the Hon'ble the Chief Minister of the Telangana State

is an interested party in the matter. There is not even an iota of evidence 22 against the petitioner and despite the same, notice under Section 41-A of

Cr.P.C. was issued to him. The investigation is monitored by the Chief

Minister. Brief averments in the counter affidavit filed by respondent Nos.1 to
5 deposed by respondent No.4 - Assistant Commissioner of Police,
Rajendra Nagar, Cyberabad, in W.P. No.40733 of 2022: 7.2. The SIT has proceeded to investigate Crime No.455 of

2022. In the meanwhile, bail application of the petitioners before the 23 Special Court was dismissed on 14.11.2022 and they were lodged in

Chanchalguda Jail. The concerned Court granted custody of the

petitioners to the police for two days i.e., 10.11.2022 and 11.11.2022.

The order passed by the Division Bench in W.A. No.742 of 2022 dated

15.11.2022 was challenged by the petitioners before the Hon'ble

Supreme Court by filing S.L.P. and they have also filed S.L.P.

(Criminal) No.10356 of 2022 against the order passed in Criminal R.C.

No.699 of 2022 dated 29.10.2022. By the common order dated

21.11.2022, the Hon'ble Supreme Court disposed of the S.L.P. holding

that the observations made in paragraph No.42 of the order in Criminal

R.C. No.699 of 2022 dated 29.10.2022 are not in tune with the

observations made in Arnesh Kumar 's case (Supra 1). 7.3. On receipt of complaint at 11.30 hours on 26.10.2022

 from Mr. Pilot Rohit Reddy, M.L.A., Tandur Assembly

 Constituency, Crime No.455 of 2022 was registered. Since the

 offences include Section 8 of the PC Act, investigation was taken

 up by respondent No.4 - the A.C.P., Rajendranagar. The

 investigation officer recorded statement of the de facto

 complainant, secured presence of the mediators, conducted scene 24 of crime observation panchanama, seized pre-arranged electronic

spy gadgets from the hall along with two voice recorders from the

de facto complainant under seizure panchanama. On playing the

seized video recorders before accused Nos.1 to 3, it clearly

disclosed the conversation of offering Rs.50 crores to each of the

MLAs of TRS party besides offer of other monetary benefits by

accused Nos.1 to 3 if the MLAs get shifted to BJP. It also contains

voice of accused No.1 stating that they have done defection in

similar manner in Karnataka, Delhi and other States.

Voice recorders further disclose the phone call made by accused

No.1 to accused No. 5 - Tushar (petitioner in W.P. No.43339 of

2022). In the conversation, it was clear that name of Mr. Santosh,

BJP (accused No.4) and his importance in the national party etc.,

was spoken. 7.4. When questioned about the recorded conversation,

accused Nos.1 to 3 remained silent and did not speak anything.

On enquiry by the investigating officer, accused Nos.1 to 3

produced their mobile phones which were marked as C-7 to C-10.

The screenshots / material relating to the case found in the mobile 25 phones were taken print outs and seized in the form of Made up file

Nos.1 to 4 respectively. On searching the car of the accused

parked outside the hall, the investigating officer found some

papers, a diary and a laptop etc., in the rear seat of the car.

On verification of the papers, there were 27 sheets containing

information relating to Telangana politics, names of 50 MLAs of

TRS Party and Congress and related information, list of 119 MLAs

of Telangana State, information about Dr. Nandu Kumar Kore -

accused No.2 and his social activities relating to BJP. The vehicle

related documents of the Creta Car registered in the name of one

Mr. Dilip Kumar Gandavaram. The said papers were seized in the

form of made up file No.5 duly attested by the mediators and the

investigating officer. 7.5. Further one diary of 2022 was found in the rear side of

the above car. It has entries of journeys of accused No.1 during the

month of October 2022. Sheet pertains to 26.10.2022 has

handwritings reflecting as "Delhi to Hydeabad. Appointment and

meeting as directed by Nandu, Return to Delhi." The diary was 26 seized as made up file No.6. The laptop was seized by marking it

as C-11. 7.6. From the evidence collected during the course of

investigation, it was revealed that accused Nos.1 to 3 are found to

be attempting to overthrow democratically elected Governments

belonging to opposition political parties of BJP by unconstitutional

and undemocratic mechanism and means. Thus, accused Nos.1 to

3, with the assistance of other conspirators whom yet to be

identified, have hatched a larger criminal conspiracy to lure the

MLAs of TRS Party. As a part of their criminal conspiracy,

accused Nos.1 and 2 started negotiations with the de facto

complainant offering to pay Rs.100 crores to him and Rs.50 crores

to each MLAs whoever wishes to shift to BJP from TRS Party.

Accused Nos.1 and 2 criminally intimidated the de facto

complainant with the ED and the CBI raids if he did not accept the

proposal and also threatened to topple the ruling State Government.

The de facto complainant shared the information with his colleague

MLAs i.e., (1) Mr. Guvvala Balraj, (2) Mr. B. Harshavardhan

Reddy, and (3) Mr. Rega Kantha Rao who came forward to assist 27 him. Meanwhile, accused Nos.1and 2 contacted the de facto

complainant and informed that they would visit his farmhouse

along with accused No.3 on 26.10.2022. At about 15:10 hours,

accused Nos.1 to 3 reached the farmhouse of the de facto

complainant at Aziz Nagar village, Moinabad Mandal and started

negotiations with the de facto complainant to finalise the deal.

After sometime, the three MLAs arrived at the scene of crime and

joined the meeting to assist the de facto complainant. There were

discussions between the MLAs and accused persons about luring of

TRS MLAs to shift to BJP. After meeting was over at about

18:30 hours, accused Nos.1 to 3 were nabbed, incriminating

material relating to commission of offence was seized and seizure

panchanama was drawn. The activities of accused Nos.1 to 3

prima facie discloses offences punishable under Sections 120-B

171-B read with Section 171-E, 506 read with Section 34 of IPC

and Section 8 of PC Act. After complying with the formalities of

arrest, the accused were produced before the ACB Court.

The learned Judge refused to remand them to judicial custody on 28 the ground of violation of mandatory procedure under Section

41-A of Cr.P.C. and ordered for their release. 7.7. Aggrieved by the said order, the State filed Criminal

R.C. No.699 of 2022 which was allowed by the order dated

29.10.2022 directing the accused to surrender before the police and

to produce them before the concerned Magistrate. 7.8. There is no truth in the allegation that investigation is

being done in an unfair and biased manner. The bald allegations

are bereft of any material or supported by any material on record.

Respondent No.3 being superior officer visited place of offence at

later hours but not before the raid was conducted as alleged by the

petitioners. It is denied that the de facto complainant along with

other MLAs let free and were escorted to Pragathi Bhavan from the

scene of offence. It is further denied that the phones were being

trapped. The Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of West Bengal v. Committee for Protection of

Democratic Rights, West Bengal2 has laid down certain 2 (2010) 3 SCC 571 29 principles. In Rhea Chakraborty v. State of Bihar3 in Transfer

Petition (Criminal) No.225 of 2020, the Hon'ble Supreme Court by

the order dated 19.08.2022 held that transfer of investigation

cannot be routine exercise and should be done in exceptional

circumstances. 7.9. The Government has issued G.O. Ms. No.51 dated

30.08.2022 withdrawing all previous general consents issued by

the previous Governments for entrusting matters to the CBI.

The State is bound to act in accordance with law and action of the

State cannot be questioned. Voluminous evidence has been

gathered and role of each and every person in the matter of

conspiracy is being examined and suspects have been put on notice

under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. Instead of appearing before the

investigating officers, the accused have challenged the notices

under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. and had been avoiding lawful

process without justification and attempting to deviate

investigation by falsely invoking jurisdiction of this Court. 3 (2020) 20 SCC 184 30 8.1. Most of the averments in the counter affidavit filed in W.P.

No.39767 of 2022, W.P.No.43144 of 2022, 42228 and 43339 of 2022 are

similar to the averments in the counter affidavit filed in W.P. No.40733

of 2022, as such, need not be referred again to avoid repetition. 8.2. In the counter affidavit in W.P. No.39767 of 2022, it was

stated that mediators while signing seizure panchanama inadvertently put

the date as 27.10.2022 instead of 26.10.2022. In the counter affidavit in

W.P. No.43144 of 2022, it was further stated that during the course of

investigation, the SIT has collected scientific evidence and other

evidence, thereby prima facie case is made out against accused Nos.4, 5,

6 and 7, and therefore, they were arraigned as accused, and accordingly a

memo was filed by the investigating officer before the concerned Court

on 22.11.2022. 9. Heard Mr. J. Prabhakar, learned senior counsel, appearing

for Mr. M. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, learned counsel for the petitioner in

W.P. No.39767 of 2022; Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel,

appearing for Mr. M.V.V. Baswa Raj, learned counsel for the petitioners

in W.P. No.40733 of 2022; Mr. Uday Holla, learned senior counsel, 31 appearing for Mr. Ponnam Ashok Goud and Mr. V. Ram Mohan Reddy,

learned counsel for the petitioner in W.P. No.42228 of 2022 and 43144

of 2022; Mr. P.P. Hegde and Mr. S.D. Sanjay, learned senior counsel,

appearing for Ms. Bandaru Hima Varshini, learned counsel for the

petitioner in W.P. No.43339 of 2022; Mr. Dushyanth Dave, learned

senior counsel, appearing for learned Advocate General for the State of

Telangana; learned Advocate General and learned Additional Advocate

General for the State of Telangana (official respondents of the State in

all the writ petitions); Mr. Gadi Praveen Kumar, Deputy Solicitor

General for India appearing for Union of India; and Mr. A. Prabhakar

Rao, learned counsel for respondent No.8 - de facto complainant viz.,

Mr. Pilot Rohit Reddy, and perused the material on record.

Submissions of Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel,
appearing for the petitioner in W.P. No.40733 of 2022 : 10.1. F.I.R. No.455 of 2022 was registered with Moinabad

Police Station for the offences punishable under Sections 120-B, 171-B

read with 171-E and 506 read with Section 34 of IPC and Section 8 of

PC Act. All the offences are punishable with less than seven (7) years of

imprisonment. Sections 171-B and 171-E are covered under Chapter 32 IX-A of IPC dealing with the offences relating to elections.

The offences under Sections 171-B and 171-E are attracted only when

there is an allegation of bribing a voter while exercising voting right

which is not the case herein. There is total non-application of mind.

Thus, it can be seen, the very initiation of criminal process by registering

FIR No.455 of 2022 for the offences which are not attracted creates

doubt on the fairness and impartiality of the investigating authorities. 10.2. To attract the offence under Section 8 of the PC Act,

there should be motive to induce a public servant to perform improper

public duty and there should be mens rea involved, though it cannot be

denied that the MLAs are public servants. It is not stated as to what is

the public duty which is subverted by the accused. Section 8 of the PC

Act is not applicable. Assuming that bribe was intended to be paid, it is

not stated what is the public duty that was being performed by the

MLAs. Joining in another party is not a public duty, so also, it is not a

duty to State or community. None of the offences mentioned in the FIR

are attracted to the instant case. The investigation smacks of unfairness. Article 21 of the Constitution of India protects not only rights of the

victims but also the accused. Both victim and accused are equally placed 33 in the context of fair and impartial investigation. There is a delay of one

month in reporting commission of offences. According to the informant,

the offer of bribe was made on 26.09.2022. Having waited for one

month, the report was lodged on 26.10.2022. 10.3. The circumstances and the events which are unfurled

indicate that everything was pre-meditated during this one month period

and at the instance of higher ups in the Government and political

dispensation, FIR was lodged. In criminal justice system, there was

always a presumption of innocence in favour of the accused. Public

flaunting of incidents and events caused prejudice to the accused.

Leaking of excerpts of investigation to the media is not unbiased and not

in accordance with the law and it was a serious lapse on the part of the

State dispensation and the Hon'ble the Chief Minister to which the

learned senior counsel appearing for the State has tendered apology in

W.A. No.749 of 2022. 10.4. Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel, relied on

the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Babubhai v. State of 34 Gujarat4 , Mohan Lal v. State of Gujarat5 and Pooja Pal v. Union of

India6 . 10.5. The learned senior counsel submitted that stage of

 investigation is not relevant factor to be considered for transferring

 investigation. The police in the instant case have breached their

 limits. There is no transparency. It may not be possible for the

 accused to complain of unfairness after the investigation is completed.

 There may be political compulsions for TRS party and there are

 allegations of attempts being made to overthrow the present

 dispensation. However, the accused herein are ordinary people.

 The investigation is being conducted in a prejudicial manner.

 The authorities have publicised the issue and have given colour of

 political hangover. Despite all the offences are punishable with less

 than seven years of imprisonment, the investigating officers have

 violated the procedure prescribed under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. and

 the authoritative pronouncement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar 's case (Supra 1). The law on Section 41-A of Cr.P.C.

 is very clear. In spite of the same, the investigation officers instead of 4 (2010) 12 SCC 254 5 2018 (17) SCC 627 6 (2016) 3 SCC 135 35 issuing notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C., produced the accused

for remand before the Special Court. The remand was refused. The

order of the Special Court was challenged before this Court in

Criminal Revision Case No.699 of 2022 and the same was allowed by

the order dated 15.11.2022. Thereafter, in S.L.P. (Criminal)

No.10356 of 2022 preferred by the accused, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court set aside the aforesaid order passed by this Court in Criminal

Revision Case No.699 of 2022 pointing out that there is violation of

the provision under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. by the investigation

officers. The material on record clearly reveals that investigation

documents have been leaked directly or indirectly. The material

which is in possession of the police was found with some other

authorities, the Hon'ble the Chief Minister of Telangana and the

media. The petitioners are not insisting that there should be

investigation only by the CBI. This Court may exercise discretion and

transfer the investigation to any other agency. 36 Submissions of Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel,
appearing for the respondents in W.P. No.40733 of 2022 : 11.1. The investigation is at the preliminary stage and no

case is made out warranting interference by this Court. There are

serious disputed questions of fact and normally, a Writ Court

would not interfere in such situations. Scuttling of investigation at

the initial stage is not in public interest. Merely because BJP,

which is a National Party, in involved, directly or indirectly, it

cannot be said that the matter has got nation wide political

ramifications. Poaching of MLA's is a serious issue and is an insult

to the Constitution. It breaks the federal fabric of the Constitution.

On the point of Constitutional morality, investigation should go on. 11.2. FIR was lodged on 26.10.2022. Police were bound to

investigate as per the law laid down by the Supreme Court in Lalitha Kumari v. State of U.P.7 . BJP approached this Court on

27.10.2022. It is the consistent stand of the BJP that it has got

nothing to do with the accused and on this sole ground, the writ

petition deserves to be dismissed at the threshold. The High Court 7 2014 (2) SCC 1 37 has to follow the principles of Constitution. The Special

Investigation Team (SIT) is conducting meticulous investigation

and there is damning evidence of involvement of the accused. The

petitioner should have an unimpeachable case seeking transfer of

investigation to CBI. No case is made out to transfer the case to

CBI. The pleadings are very vague. The press meet addressed by

the Chief Minister is regrettable. However, the same has not caused

any prejudice to the petitioner or the accused. The SIT is appointed

to investigate the case. There is no material placed before this

Court to say that the State Police are acting without any credibility.

The investigation is at the nascent stage. Malafides are not proved.

The petitioner has remedies available under the Criminal Procedure

Code , 1973. Given a chance, every accused alleges mala fides on

the part of the investigation. The grievance of the accused, if any,

will be decided at the appropriate stage by the Courts but not at the

stage of investigation. Functions of the police and judiciary are

complementary. Investigation cannot be interfered at the nascent

stage as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Romila Thapar v.

Union of India8 . (2018) 10 SCC 753 38 11.3. The High Courts are bound to follow the orders of the

Supreme Court and inherent powers cannot be exercised arbitrarily.

Malafides and allegations cannot be mere assertions and they have

to be proved as held in Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. v.

State of Maharashtra9 . BJP as an organization is not involved in

the criminal case. It is neither an accused nor an informant nor a

third party. It does not have locus standi to file this writ petition.

The transfer of investigation would be done only in the rarest of the

rare cases. The investigation is to be continued to unravel the truth

as democracy is sought to be stifled, interfered with and destroyed.

An attempt made to bribe the MLA's is a serious thing and shakes

the foundation of the democracy. The MLA's are performing

Constitutional duty. They receive pension, rail and Air travel

concession. Thus, the contention that the MLA's are not

performing official duty, within the meaning of Section 8 of the PC

Act is baseless and the same would be travesty of justice. Public

duty and official duty are interchangeable. Once the accused have

come before this Court, a third party does not have any locus standi

as held in Romila Thapar 's case (Supra 8). 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315 39 11.4. There is no violation of Section 41-A Cr.P.C by the

investigation officer or SIT. The judgment in Arnesh Kumar 's case

is not properly understood. There is no necessity to give gist of the

charge before issuing Section 41-A notice. The offences mentioned in

the FIR have taken place in the presence of the police officer. They

are cognizable and non-bailable and as such, the accused can straight

away be arrested. The observations in para 12 of Arnesh Kumar's

case have to be treated obiter and not binding precedent. Section 41-A Cr.P.C has to be read in harmony with Sections 154 and 157 Cr.P.C

and cannot be read in isolation. The judiciary cannot interfere in the

investigation. There is ample evidence to proceed with the

investigation in the form of call records and CCTV footages. The writ

petition is filed in abuse of process of law. 11.5. Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel, has also

relied on the following decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court: 12.1. Accused No.2 was released on bail in Crime No.455 of

2022. Immediately another crime was registered with the Banjara Hills

Police Station. The SIT officials, who are no way concerned with the

said FIR, came to the Banjara Hills Police Station and interrogated

accused No.2. Notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. shall indicate

reasonable grounds. The petitioner was not an accused in F.I.R. No.455

of 2022 on the date when the notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. was 12 (2008) 3 SCC 542 13 (2020) 14 SCC 12 14 (1978) 1 SCC 405 15 (1967) 3 SCR 19 : AIR 1967 SC 1445 : 1967 Cri LJ 1218 16 1998(4) SCC 626 17 (1985) 1 SCC 260 : 1985 SCC (Tax) 75 18 (2012) 9 SCC 460 41 issued to him. High level officials are witnesses. Sending Compact

Discs (CDs) to various High Courts and Hon'ble Supreme Court was

uncalled for and unwarranted. Unfairness is writ large from the day one

of investigation. Mere apology of the learned senior counsel for the

State would not undo the damage caused to the accused. There is

discrepancy in the date written by the witnesses in the observation

panchanama which is not properly explained and proves mala fides on

the part of the investigating officials since inception. 12.2. No doubt, when BJP filed W.P. No.39767 of 2022, the

crime was at the initial stages of the investigation. However, as of now,

more than forty (40) days elapsed. Hence, now, it cannot be said that the

investigation is at the initial stage. Even according to Mr. Dushyant

Dave, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents, voluminous

evidence has been collected by the SIT. The case arises out of trap

proceedings under the PC Act . Thus, there is no merit in the contention

of Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel appearing for the

respondents, that investigation is at the initial stage. This Court has to

take judicial note of the fact that Her Excellency Governor for the State

of Telangana has gone on record complaining of phone tapping in 42 connection with the present crime. Reputation of the petitioner who has

twenty (20) years of practice at Bar is sullied. The news has been

flashed in all major newspapers and television channels from 26.10.2022

onwards. The Hon'ble the Chief Minister for the State of Telangana had

access to the documents that are part of investigation.

It was not only proclaimed by the Hon'ble the Chief Minister in his

address to the Press that thousands of documents, whatsapp messages

and pictures have been collected during the course of investigation, but

the same is openly circulated to the news media. The name of the

petitioner is cropped up time and again. The video recordings circulated

by the Hon'ble Chief Minister to several Constitutional functionaries in

the country and to the media are available in all news channels and even

uploaded in YouTube. The investigation officers have to be fair not only

to the State but also to the accused. They are henchmen of the State.

There is lack of fairness and investigation of the present crime is tainted

with absolute bias. 12.3. High Officials, witnesses and none other than the Hon'ble the

Chief Minister are personally involved in the instant case. Thus, to do

complete justice, investigation has to be transferred to another agency. 43 12.4. Investigation by a neutral agency will reveal the truth.

Three (3) out of four (4) M.L.As., who were allegedly poached were

elected from Congress Party and later on switched over to TRS Party. In

the tussle between the TRS Party and the BJP, rights of the accused are

being infringed. There are no fetters placed on the jurisdiction of this

Court in transferring investigation to a neutral agency. Most of the

decisions relied on by Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel

appearing for the respondents, arise out of jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. and not relevant for the present case. Jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. stands on a different footing. The counter filed

by the police is silent on the aspect as to who handed over CDs /

documents to the Hon'ble Chief Minister. As there is no answer

forthcoming from the respondents as to who has given CDs and pen-

drive to the Hon'ble the Chief Minister, adverse inference has to be

drawn. The entire information / evidence allegedly collected during

investigation that too in trap/raid video recorded proceedings are in

public domain. 12.5. The learned senior counsel relied on the following

decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court: 13.1. Mr. S.D. Sanjay, learned senior counsel, submitted the

respondent No.7 - Hon'ble Chief Minister of the State, is personally

involved in the matter and it cannot be said that the investigation is fair 19 2014 (8) SCC 768 20 (2016) 1 SCC 207 21 1993 Supp (4) SCC 46 22 1996 SCC OnLine Kar 154 23 (2013) 5 SCC 762 24 (2019) 15 SCC 470 25 2022 SCC OnLine Cal 3361 26 (2010) 2 SCC 200 45 and impartial and without any interference by the political authorities.

The SIT is under the direct control of the respondent No.7. FIR was

registered on 26.10.2022. The Chief Minister held press conference on

03.11.2022. The video clippings were displayed by the Chief Minister

for three hours and the pen drives and CDs were circulated to the press

reporters in the press meet. In his one hour address, the Chief Minister

spoke about attempts made by BJP, several top functionaries and Central

Ministers with the support of the Prime Minister to overthrow the

Government of Telangana. The petitioner is not an accused and for

achieving political mileage, the respondents are seeking to expand the

scope of investigation. The petitioner is a resident of Kerala and

President of a registered political party. He has contested as a candidate

against Rahul Gandhi. The act of the Chief Minister in leaking the

investigation material to the press and sending copies of the same to the

Hon'ble Chief Justice of Supreme Court, other Judges of the Supreme

Court, other High Courts and other Constitutional functionaries is

antithesis to Constitutional rights of the petitioner and other accused.

It is an unwarranted act, which shows that the Chief Minister is

personally interested in the matter. Thus, fair investigation is doubtful. 46 The Chief Minister has publicly claimed that the accused are involved in

the crime and they have been acting at the behest of BJP.

The Hon'ble Chief Minister is acting as a prosecutor and informant and

wants to brand the accused as conspirators attempting to overthrow the

Government. The petitioner's name is taken by the Chief Minister during

the press meet. 13.2. Learned senior counsel, referred to Rules 2(b)(c), Rule 3,

Rule 2(e)(d)(f) of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules,

1969 and Rule 3 of the Indian Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 and

contended that the IPS officers working in the Government are under the

control of the Chief Minister. Their appointment, promotion, transfer,

deputation and suspension are under the control of the Government.

Thus, when the Chief Minister himself has publicly declared that the

petitioner is an accused and involved in the crime, it would be

improbable that the petitioner would be subjected to fair and impartial

investigation. Even according to the Chief Minister, the issue which led

to registration of crime has nation wide ramifications. In his one hour

address, the Chief Minister has repeatedly stated that democracy is being

destroyed by the ruling party dispensation at the Centre. That eight (8) 47 State Governments have been overthrown and he has evidence of

thousands of pages to prove that the accused persons in this crime have

hatched a larger conspiracy to overthrow the Telangana Government.

Even according to the Government, it is a high profile case and thus, the

investigation was transferred to SIT. 13.3. The learned senior counsel submitted that the press

conference is a green signal to the SIT. The address of none other than

the Chief Minister, who is a high Constitutional functionary, branding

the petitioner as accused will have direct impact on the investigation

agency. The apology tendered by Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior

counsel, appearing for the learned Advocate General for the State, before

the Division Bench of this Court in WA.No.749 of 2022 dated

15.11.2022 cannot undo the damage done to the accused persons.

The SIT is not acting independently. No prejudice would be caused to

any person if investigation is transferred to CBI. It is not only the victim

but also the accused has got right to seek transfer of investigation.

The parameters for the accused and the victim are same while seeking

transfer of investigation. In the instant case, the investigation is at the

threshold and there is no bar for this Court to transfer the investigation. 48 Merely because the investigation is at the nascent stage, it cannot be said

that it is not biased. The petitioner has made out a case for transfer of

investigation. The material collected by the police during the

investigation is shared with the Chief Minister, which is a serious lapse

and incomprehensible and contrary to the provisions of Cr.P.C . Not only

that, the petitioner is referred to as accused by media, LOC is opened

against him, which demonstrates malice on the part of the respondents.

Submissions of Mr. J. Prabhakar, learned senior counsel, appearing for
Mr. M. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, learned counsel for the petitioner in
W.P. No.39767 of 2022: First one is presence of witnesses when complaint is lodged which is

unusual. Secondly, signature of witnesses are taken to see that the de

facto complainant would not change his version. There is no explanation

as to how the investigation documents / CDs have been handedover to

the Hon'ble the Chief Minister. The action of investigation officials is

contrary to the procedure of search and seizure provided under Section

100 of Cr.P.C. In terms of sub-sections (4), (5), and (6) of the said

provision, the investigation officer, at the best, can handover list of the

seized materials / documents to the de facto complainant and not copies

of the CDs / documents. 14.3. The learned Additional Advocate General, in the course

of arguments, submitted that CDs might have been handedover by the

de facto complainant Mr. Pilot Rohith Reddy to the Hon'ble Chief

Minister. But, such assertions are not found in the counter affidavit of

the complainant - State. There cannot be any doubt that the investigating

officers have handed-over the CDs and that too before any investigation

is completed to the Hon'ble Chief Minister. 14.4. Thus, it cannot be said that there is transparency and

fairness in the investigation. The police acted in contravention of the

procedure contemplated under Section 165 Cr.P.C. and the Police

Standing Orders - 512 and 540. The investigation officers are required

to maintain secrecy. The SIT is consisting of officers of the State. Even

before investigation is completed, names of the accused and suspected

persons are referred in the Press Conference of the Hon'ble the Chief

Minister. 14.5. The subsequent events also can be taken into

consideration to decide whether there is element of bias and unfairness

on the part of investigating officers. The most relevant being statement

of the de facto complainant - LW.1 recorded under Section 164 of

Cr.P.C. after filing of the writ petitions. 14.6. As per G.O. Ms. No.268, Home Department, dated

12.09.2003, it is the concerned Assistant Commissioner of Police, who is

designated as Commissioner of Police, ACB Wing, has to conduct

investigation and not the regular police. Even if the regular police

registers case, it should be transferred to ACB Wing. If any other officer 51 was to be entrusted with investigation, the same could have been done

under Section 17 of the PC Act. G.O. Ms. No.63 was not issued under Section 17 of the PC Act. Submissions of Mr. B.S. Prasad, learned Advocate General for the
State of Telangana: The investigation by the regular police of the rank of Assistant

Commissioner of Police is permissible under Section 17 of the PC Act.

In any case, the SIT is constituted by the Government to conduct

investigation. Assuming that there is any irregularity, the same would

stand rectified by constitution of SIT.s There are number of cases earlier

investigated and prosecuted by the Crime Investigation Department and

Central Crime Station in our State. Submissions of Mr. J. Ramchander Rao, leaned Additional Advocate
General for the State of Telangana : The truth will come out in the investigation and the writ petitions are 52 premature. The allegations of unfairness and bias in the investigation are

very vague. This Court would not conduct roving enquiry in writ

jurisdiction. The CDs / video recordings are not relevant for the purpose

of this case and would not cause any prejudice to the accused.

Submissions of Mr. A. Prabhakar Rao, learned counsel appearing
for respondent No.8 in W.P. No.39767 of 2022 : FIR was lodged on 26.10.2022 and on the very next day i.e., 27.10.2022,

the writ petition was filed by the BJP. Assuming that there is any defect

in investigation, accused can always take advantage of the same.

They can file discharge or quash petition at the appropriate time and they

can also seek compensation for malicious prosecution. Normally, the

Courts would not interfere when investigation is at the preliminary stage.

After filing charge sheet, it will be known whether there is any bias.

The writ petition is premature. The SIT is not doing anything contrary to

law. Prejudice will be caused to the de facto complainant if investigation

is stalled at this stage or transferred to any other agency. 53 Reply Arguments of Mr. Mahesh Jetmalani, learned senior counsel: The FIR was lodged at 11.30 Hours on 26.10.2022, it was dispatched to

the Court at 12.30 Hours but it reached the Magistrate at 06.30 AM on

27.10.2022. Raid was conducted between 3.30 PM and 6.30 PM. 54 No money was seized or paid. No one knows the contents of tape

recorders. The tape recording evidence cannot be taken as evidence until

forensic evidence is collected. On 27.10.2022, the Commissioner of

Police leaked the videos to the press, which has given its own version,

thereby, prejudicing the minds of the public. The solitary purpose of

investigation is to discover the truth, which is defeated in the instant

case. The leakage of video clippings to the media by the Chief Minister

is highly objectionable. Apart from that sending such video recordings to

the Hon'ble Chief Justice of Supreme Court, other Judges of the

Supreme Court and High Courts is a determined attempt to politicize the

issue, for which, Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel appearing

for the State, has tendered apology. 18.3. It is not denied by the police that video recordings

circulated by the Hon'ble Chief Minister were collected by the police

during investigation. The unproved evidence, which is flaunted to public,

media and press at an early stage, militates against the concept of

presumption of innocence of the accused. The rights of the accused are

prejudiced with media trial. The fault of the part of the Chief Minister is

admitted and apologized but that would not suffice as there is no answer 55 as to how the material has landed in the office of the Chief Minister.

The petitioner has reasonable and legitimate apprehension, which is the

test that needs to be applied here. 19.1 SEQUENCE OF EVENTS RELEVANT FOR ADJUDICATION OF

 THESE WRIT PETITIONS : 20. The Hon'ble Chief Minister of Telangana has addressed

Press in the presence of TRS Party leaders, Ministers and MLAs.

It was an official Press Conference. There were several media persons in

the Press Conference. He stated that voluminous evidence is collected in

the criminal case and the same has been sent in the form of CDs to the

Hon'ble the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India and other High

Courts, CBI, ED, CVC, media agencies, the Chief Ministers of the

country and various Party presidents. There is an attempt made by the

BJP to murder democracy. The Hon'ble Prime Minister openly

proclaimed during his speech in the West Bengal that 40 MLAs of TMC

Party are in touch with the BJP. The BJP leaders are claiming that they

have made Mr. Eknath Shinde as Chief Minister of Maharashtra State

and by doing same operation, eight Governments have been overthrown.

This conspiracy was going on since several days. It is not a simple case.

It is an organised crime. One of the persons, whose name is 60 continuously taken in the conversation is Tushar (petitioner in W.P.

No.43339 of 2022) who contested against Mr. Rahul Gandhi. 20.1. The Hon'ble Chief Minister has requested the judicial

system not to take this case lightly. He further stated that the Congress

Party MLAs who have joined the TRS Party was not in unethical or

illegal manner and was in accordance with the Constitution.

The accused persons viz., Ramchandra Bharathi, Simhayaji and one

Hyderabad Broker have taken names of Mr. B.L. Santhosh, Mr. Amit

Shah and Mr. J.D. Naddha. There are pictures of Mr. Amit Shah with

Mr. Tushar. The data which was received runs into thousands of pages

and there is a need to ensure that no tampering of evidence takes place.

It is a heinous crime committed by the BJP, as such, everyone has to

wage a war and it cannot be taken as a petty issue. 20.2. In the second video file, Mr. Stephen Ravindra,

Commissioner of Police, Cyberabad, informed the Press that there was

an attempt made by the accused to poach MLAs and the accused were

trapped and arrested. The accused tried to induce the TRS Party MLAs 61 to join BJP. More information will be revealed after further

investigation. 20.3. The third video file contains the discussion / conversation

between the three (3) accused persons and four (4) MLAs who were

allegedly poached. The video runs for about an hour. There were

several discussions between the accused and the MLAs. The major part

of discussion was between accused No.1 and the MLAs. Accused No.1

was found explaining sequence of events and future plans allegedly

offering crores of rupees to the MLAs for switching over their loyalties

to BJP and contesting on BJP tickets in the next elections. 20.4. As seen in the first video, though, intermittently, the

Hon'ble the Chief Minister spoke about involvement of top BJP officials

including the Hon'ble Prime Minsiter and the Home Minister and said

that thousands of documents were collected to prove involvement of

BJP, in the opinion of this Court, there is nothing objectionable except

statements regarding evidence collected in the form of video recording

(third video); so also nothing objectionable is found in the address made

by Mr. Setephen Ravindra, Commissioner of Police in the Press Meet. 62 20.5. However, coming to the third video file, it needs to be

noted that the said video was recorded secretly by installing electronic

spy gadgets (C-1 to C-6) during the trap proceedings in the farmhouse of

the de facto complainant Mr. Pilot Rohith Reddy. None of the learned

counsel appearing for the respondents have disputed this fact. 21. It was specifically asserted in paragraph No.5 of the writ

affidavit in W.P. No.43144 of 2022 and paragraph Nos.6, 7 and 8 of the

writ affidavit in W.P. No.43339 of 2022 that the Assistant Commissioner

of Police, Rajendranagar has transferred data from C-1 to C-6 pen drives

and handed over them to the Chief Minister of the Telangana who has

sent CDs to various Constitutional Functionaries. These assertions have

not been denied in the counter affidavits filed in these two writ petitions.

Even during the arguments, Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel,

appearing for the State, the learned Advocate General and the learned

Additional Advocate General for the State have not refuted the above

assertions. 22. The judgments relied on by Mr. Uday Holla, learned senior

counsel, on failure of respondents in specifically denying the averments

of the petitioner/s are referred herein: 23.1. In Standard Chartered Bank 's case (Supra 20), the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: It is a settled position of law that if an allegation made
 in the plaint is not specifically denied in the written
 statement, it is treated as admitted, as was also held by this
 Court in Balraj Taneja v. Sunil Madan [(1999) 8 SCC
 396] ." 23.2. In Naseem Bano 's case (Supra 21), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as under: 23.3. In Darshini Shikshana Samasthe (Registered),

Sringeri, Chikmagalur (Supra 22), the High Court of Karnataka at

Bangalore, held as under: 24. In the light of above pronouncements and uncontroverted

averments in the writ affidavit about handing over / leakage of CDs and

pen drives containing video recordings of electronic spy gadgets (C-1 to

C-6), adverse inference has to be drawn that the same have been

handedover by the investigating officer - ACP, Rajendranagar to the

Hon'ble Chief Minister. 25. As noted in the preceding paragraphs, several decisions

have been relied upon by the learned counsel appearing on either side

and having carefully perused all the decisions, the following judgments

which are relevant and having bearing on the subject involved in this lis

are referred to. Judgments relied on behalf of the petitioners seeking transfer of
investigation: 26.1. In Babubhai 's case (Supra 4), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as under: Thus, it is evident from the above that not only
 investigation in respect of both the FIRs had not been fair
 and has caused serious prejudice to one party but even 67 before the High Court conduct of the party and
investigating agency has not been fair. 32. The investigation into a criminal offence must be
free from objectionable features or infirmities which may
legitimately lead to a grievance on the part of the accused
that investigation was unfair and carried out with an
ulterior motive. It is also the duty of the investigating
officer to conduct the investigation avoiding any kind of
mischief and harassment to any of the accused. The
investigating officer should be fair and conscious so as to
rule out any possibility of fabrication of evidence and his
impartial conduct must dispel any suspicion as to its
genuineness. The investigating officer "is not merely to
bolster up a prosecution case with such evidence as may
enable the court to record a conviction but to bring out the
real unvarnished truth". ( Vide R.P. Kapur v. State of
Punjab [AIR 1960 SC 866 : 1960 Cri LJ 1239] , Jamuna
Chaudhary v. State of Bihar [(1974) 3 SCC 774 : 1974
SCC (Cri) 250 : AIR 1974 SC 1822] , SCC at p. 780, para
11 and Mahmood v. State of U.P. [(1976) 1 SCC 542 : 26.3. In Pooja Pal 's case (Supra 6), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court has held as under: State of M.P., (2012) 4 SCC 516 : (2012) 2 SCC (Cri) 481]
 It was postulated that the criminal jurisprudence with the 70 passage of time has laid emphasis on victimology, which
fundamentally is the perception of a trial from the
viewpoint of criminal as well as the victim when judged in
the social context. 91. This Court in NHRC v. State of Gujarat
[NHRC v. State of Gujarat, (2009) 6 SCC 767 : (2009) 3
SCC (Cri) 44] did proclaim unambiguously that discovery,
investigation and establishment of truth are the main
purposes of the courts of justice and indeed are raison
d'étre for their existence. 92. That the pre-eminence of truth is the guiding star in
a judicial process forming the foundation of justice, had
been aptly propounded by this Court in Maria Margarida
Sequeira Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeira [Maria
Margarida Sequeira Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de
Sequeira, (2012) 5 SCC 370 : (2012) 3 SCC (Civ) 126] . It
was ruled that the entire judicial system had been created
only to discern and find out the real truth and that the
Judges at all levels have to seriously engage themselves in
the journey of discovering the same. Emphasising that the
quest for truth is the mandate of law and indeed the
bounden duty of the courts, it was observed that the justice
system will acquire credibility only when the people will
be convinced that justice is based on the foundation of the
truth. While referring with approval, the revealing
observation made in Ritesh Tewari v. State of U.P. [Ritesh 71 Tewari v. State of U.P., (2010) 10 SCC 677 : (2010) 4
 SCC (Civ) 315] that every trial is voyage of discovery in
 which truth is the quest, the following passage of Lord
 Denning scripted in Jones v. National Coal
 Board [Jones v. National Coal Board, (1957) 2 QB 55 : 26.4. In Ankush Maruti Shinde 's case (Supra 24), the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: 26.5. In Sasti Gayen's case (Supra 25), the Hon'ble Supreme Court

held as under: 26.7. In Subrata Chattoraj 's case (Supra 19), the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held as under: 26.8. In Rubabbuddin Sheikh's case (Supra 26), the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held as under: Judgments relied on by the respondents - State opposing
 transfer of investigation : 27.1. In P.P. Sharma 's case (Supra 10), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as under: 27.2. In Bhajan Lal 's case (Supra 11), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as under: 27.3. In Divine Retreat Centre 's case (Supra 12), the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held as under: 27.4. In Romila Thapar 's case (Supra 8), the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held as under: The next friend can continue to espouse the cause of the
 affected accused as long as the accused concerned is not in
 a position or incapacitated to take recourse to legal remedy
 and not otherwise. 27.5. In Arnab Ranjan Goswami 's case (Supra 13), the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: (emphasis supplied) 84 45. In Romila Thapar v. Union of India [Romila
Thapar v. Union of India, (2018) 10 SCC 753 : (2019) 1
SCC (Cri) 638] , A.M. Khanwilkar, J. speaking for a three-
Judge Bench of this Court (one of us, Dr D.Y.
Chandrachud, J. dissenting) noted the dictum in a line of
precedents laying down the principle that the accused
"does not have a say in the matter of appointment of
investigating agency". In reiterating this principle, this
Court relied upon its earlier decisions in Narmada
Bai v. State of Gujarat [Narmada Bai v. State of Gujarat,
(2011) 5 SCC 79 : (2011) 2 SCC (Cri) 526] , Sanjiv
Rajendra Bhatt v. Union of India [Sanjiv Rajendra
Bhatt v. Union of India, (2016) 1 SCC 1 : (2016) 1 SCC
(Cri) 193 : (2016) 1 SCC (L&S) 1] , E.
Sivakumar v. Union of India [E. Sivakumar v. Union of
India, (2018) 7 SCC 365 : (2018) 3 SCC (Cri) 49]
and Divine Retreat Centre v. State of Kerala [Divine
Retreat Centre v. State of Kerala, (2008) 3 SCC 542 : 46. The principle of law that emerges from the
 precedents of this Court is that the power to transfer an
 investigation must be used "sparingly" and only "in
 exceptional circumstances". In assessing the plea urged by the petitioner that the
 investigation must be transferred to CBI, we are guided by
 the parameters laid down by this Court for the exercise of
 that extraordinary power. It is necessary to address the
 grounds on which the petitioner seeks a transfer of the
 investigation. The grounds urged for transfer are: 28. Whether the BJP has got locus standi to institute W.P.

No.39767 of 2022? 29. It is the contention of the learned counsel appearing for the

respondents State - Police that action of the BJP, Telangana State Unit,

in rushing to the Court within a day, on 27.10.2022, after registration of

F.I.R. on 26.10.2022, at the nascent stage speaks volumes about their ill

intentions and conduct. It is noticed that the BJP, as an

organisation/party, is not an accused. In criminal law, any individual

who has arraigned as an accused can be an aggrieved person. By the 87 time, the writ petition was filed, though names of prominent persons of

BJP have been taken, that by itself cannot give a colour of political

vendetta. Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel, has also

emphasized that even if names of the prominent BJP leaders have been

taken in the remand report and documents collected during investigation,

there was no material placed before this Court to say that investigation is

tainted. Assuming that there is some grievance, it is for the aggrieved

person to approach this Court and not the BJP. 30. The contention of the learned senior counsel appearing for

the BJP is that names of the Hon'ble Prime Minister, the Home Minister

and important persons in the BJP are repeatedly taken by the Hon'ble the

Chief Minister of the Telangana State during the Press Conference. The

issue will have nationwide ramifications. The Hon'ble the Chief

Minister has openly stated that war has to be waged against the BJP and

Central Government. In the opinion of this Court, these are not the

factors to be considered in the instant case. 31. The allegations in W.P. No.39767 of 2022 and other writ

petitions, so far as mala fides are concerned are very vague. As rightly 88 contended by Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel, appearing for

the State of Telangana, mala fides on the point of political vendetta are

not made out in the facts and circumstances of the case. It also needs to

be pointed out that the accused persons are before this Court in

W.P. No.40733 of 2022 seeking the same relief of transfer of

investigation. 32. In Romila Thapar 's case (Supra 8), it was held in

paragraph No.30, which is extracted above, that third party cannot be

permitted to espouse cause of the accused when the accused themselves

are pursuing the writ petition. 33. Therefore, in view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Romila Thapar 's case (Supra 8), W.P. No.39767

 of 2022 is not maintainable. 34. In a system governed by law, every person or authority is

 subservient to Constitutional principles. The safeguards provided to

 the accused persons under Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution of

 India have been reinforced from time to time by various authoritative

 pronouncements, some of which are referred above . Protection given 89 to the accused from very inception when he is arrested by the police

officer and mandate under Article 20 of the Constitution of India read

with Section 167 Cr.P.C. to produce the accused before the Magistrate

within 24 hours of his arrest is a pointer to emphasise that from very

inception of the criminal proceedings, the accused has Constitutional

and statutory safeguards. 35. Several arguments have been advanced contending that

action of the State authorities is mala fide, tainted and biased.

Few instances like service notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C.

even when request was made to defer proceedings on health

grounds, LOC opened by the police against some of the accused,

investigation officers of the SIT coming with a force of

30 policemen to interrogate the accused in connection with another

crime on the file of Banjara Hills Police Station, violation of

guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar 's case,

cannot be considered to be so serious giving rise to cause of action

for transfer of investigation. So also the press conference

addressed by the Chief Minister where serious imputations made

against BJP taking names of the Hon'ble Prime Minister, Home 90 Minister and other top functionaries of BJP cannot be relevant

factors for transfer of investigation. 36. FIR discloses commission of cognizable offence and

investigation is bound to be done in accordance with law.

Police excesses, investigation officers acting unusually and beyond

jurisdiction violating judicial precedents can be remedied from

time to time and rightly so, orders have been passed by this Court

and other Benches of this Court granting interim protection of

arrest pursuant to Section 41-A of Cr.P.C notices. It is stated that

accused Nos.1 to 3 are released on bail. So far as other accused,

against whom Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. notices were issued, are

concerned, it is stated that stay has been granted by other Benches

of this Court in separate cases. Thus, it cannot be said that any

prejudice is caused to the accused on the aspect of violation of

provisions of law, more particularly, Section 41-A Cr.P.C and

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar 's case. 37. The words spoken by the Hon'ble Chief Minister and

agony expressed repeatedly saying that democracy is being 91 murdered and several other statements imputing the top leaders of

the BJP in the contemporary political scenario are nothing unusual.

With a conscious mind this Court refrains to make any further

observations on the speech of the Hon'ble Chief Minister, though

the same has been repeatedly pointed out by the learned counsel

appearing for the petitioners, by keeping in mind the prejudice that

may cause to the de facto complainant / victims. 38. In the above conspectus, the issue boils down to the

third folder of CD/Pen Drives, which have been taken on record by

this Court and circulated by the Chief Minister to the Hon'ble

Chief Justice of India, the Hon'ble Chief Justice of this Court and

the Hon'ble Chief Justices of other States. The controversy

regarding poaching of MLA's is, no doubt, a serious one.

The official press conference arranged by the Chief Minister and

speaking about the sequence of events and the attempt made to

poach ruling party MLA's is understandable. What is required to

be seen is whether the procedure established by law has been

breached. The manner in which the video recordings through

electronic spy gadgets and the documents (C-1 to C-6) have been 92 uploaded in the public domain tested on the view point of accused

 would certainly cause prejudice to them. Though the investigation

 is at the preliminary stage, crucial documents, which were in the

 nature of pre-trap proceedings, have come out open in public. 39. None of the learned counsel appearing for the State have

 clarified or explained to the Court as to how these CDs and pen drives

 are surfaced in the Press Meet of the Hon'ble Chief Minister.

 Not only in the pleadings, even in the oral submissions, the

 respondents have maintained stoic silence and have chosen to be very

 cautious on the leakage of investigation material. A veiled attempt

 was made by the learned Additional Advocate General stating that the

 de facto complainant might have handed over the CDs / pen drives to

 the Hon'ble Chief Minister. 40. Mr. A. Prabhakar Rao, learned counsel appearing for the de

facto complainant - respondent No.8 in W.P. No.39767 of 2022, has also

stated that the de facto complainant might have handed over the CDs, but

there is no clear assertion and evidence to that effect. The contentions of

Mr. J. Prabhakar, learned senior counsel appearing for one of the 93 petitioners, with reference to procedure of search and handing over only

the list of documents to the de facto complainant under Cr.P.C . and

instructions in the Police Manual have not been controverted by the

learned counsel for the respondents. Moreover, nothing is argued before

this Court as to at what stage and under what provisions of Cr.P.C .,

the de facto complainant could have access to the documents and

material seized during the investigation. The crime was registered on

26.10.2022. The electronic spy gadgets were seized on 26/27.10.2022

containing the video recording (third file) which are in the nature of trap

proceedings, and undoubtedly crucial and critical part of investigation,

should not have been handed over to any third party. In the political

tussle between the BJP and the TRS Party, the Constitutional and

statutory rights of the accused seems to have been forgotten.

The investigation officers have committed serious lapses. It appears, to

cover up such lapses, SIT was constituted on 09.11.2022. When accused

are condemned publicly and branded as conspirators levelling serious

allegations by none other than the Hon'ble Chief Minister by conducting

Press Meet and circulating the videos to the important Constitutional

Functionaries, even before charge sheet is filed and at the initial stages of 94 the investigation, it cannot be said that investigation is being done in an

unbiased and fair manner. 41. As contended by Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior

counsel, in W.P. No.40733 of 2022, actual bias need not be proved and it

would suffice if legitimate and reasonable apprehension of bias, taint and

unfair investigation is made out by the accused. In Babubhai 's case

(Supra 4), investigation was transferred. In the said decision , it was held

that not only fair trial but investigation is also part of Constitutional

rights guaranteed under Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India.

It is not necessary that actual bias should be proved and issue has to be

examined from the view point of the accused to see whether any

prejudice is caused or not. However, apprehension of the accused about

unfair and biased investigation should not be unrealistic but genuine as

held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mohan Lal 's case (Supra 5). In

the instant case, the events which have unfolded from the date of

registration of crime on 26.10.2022 till the Press Conference of the

Hon'ble Chief Minister on 03.11.2022, making the investigation CDs /

material public without any hesitation would cause reasonable 95 apprehension in the mind of the accused about fair and unbiased

investigation. 42. In these circumstances, this Court is of the view that

 serious prejudice is caused to the accused, who are branded

 publicly as conspirators, thereby, depriving their rights to

 effectively defend the criminal proceedings and availing their legal

 remedies under law. These events run contrary to the fundamental

 concept of criminal law jurisprudence that every accused is deemed

 to be innocent until proven guilty. As noted above, the learned

 counsel for the respondents have not pointed out any provisions of

 the Cr.P.C . nor offered any plausible explanation or theory as to

 how the third video CDs / pen drives which have been seized under

 mediators' report panchanama on 27.10.2022 in F.I.R. No.455 of

 2022 have been handed over to the Hon'ble Chief Minister. Who

 has handed over the same, when and how, remains a mystery. In

 spite of that, to say that no prejudice is caused to the accused is

 unreasonable and unacceptable. If action of the police is not in

 accordance with the procedure established by law, even at the

 initial stages, this Court, exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 96 of the Constitution of India, should not shirk its responsibility to

set rights things. The contention of the learned counsel for the

State - Police that the petitioners have remedies under law and they

may challenge the proceedings at the appropriate time and the

investigation at this nascent stage should not be interfered cannot

be sustained. The rights of the accused stand as a high pedestal in

the criminal law jurisprudence as held by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Ankush Maruti Shinde 's case (Supra 24). Having found

serious lapses and leakage of investigation material / CDs, it is

difficult to accept the contention of the learned counsel for the

respondents - State that this Court should lay off its hands merely

because the investigation is at preliminary stage. Rights of the

accused to have fair and unbiased investigation are defeated in this

case which is in violation of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution

of India. 43. In the opinion of this Court, constitution of SIT under

G.O. Ms. No.63 which act under the Government will not alter the

situation, more particularly, when an authority none other than the

Hon'ble Chief Minister himself has openly circulated the videos 97 and branded the accused and members of the organised crime as

conspirators. The entire episode and turn out of events is

something unprecedented and incomprehensible and

unhesitatingly, this Court holds that the accused have made out a

case for transfer of investigation. So far as other points raised by

the learned counsel regarding violation of G.O. Ms. No.268 etc.,

and that investigation by regular police is not permissible under the PC Act are not considered as the pleadings to that effect in the writ

affidavits are very vague; in any event, they are not necessary to be

dealt with in the light of the above observations. 44.1. For the aforesaid reasons, W.P. Nos.40733, 43144 and

43339 of 2022 are allowed. G.O.Ms. No.63 Home (Legal)

Department dated 09.11.2022 appointing SIT is quashed. The

investigation in FIR.No.455 of 2022 shall be forthwith transferred

to the Central Bureau of Investigation, who shall proceed with de

novo investigation taking into consideration the report lodged by

Mr. Pilot Rohit Reddy in FIR.No.455 of 2022, observation

panchanama dated 26.10.2022 and mediator's panchanama dated

27.10.2022. The remaining investigation done by Assistant 98 Commissioner of Police, Rajendranagar Division; the Station

 House Officer, Moinabad Police Station, and the SIT are also

 quashed. 44.2. As discussed above, W.P. No.39767 of 2022 is not

 maintainable and is accordingly dismissed. 44.3. In view of the orders in W.P. No.43144 of 2022, no

 orders are required to be passed in W.P. No.42228 of 2022, and

 therefore, the same is closed. 45. At this point of time, a request is made by the learned

 Advocate General for the State to suspend this order till its certified

 copy is furnished. Therefore, this order is suspended, as prayed

 for. As a sequel thereto, miscellaneous applications, if any, pending

in these writ petitions stand closed. ______________________
 B. VIJAYSEN REDDY, J
December 26, 2022. NOTE: LR COPY TO BE MARKED. (BO) PV/DSK