ICD, Patparganj, East Delhi, Delhi-110096. AND

 Customs Appeal No. 53590 of 2018
(Arising out of order-in-original No. 19/Commr/BBG/PPG/ 2018 dated 25.07.2018 passed by
the Commissioner of Customs, ICD, Patparganj, Delhi). ShriRakesh Kumar, Authorised Representative for the respondent

CORAM: 2. The brief facts in both the appeals are common, that intelligence

was developed by DRI that some unscrupulous persons based in West

Bengal in association with some other exporters/brokers of other parts of

the country were involved in preparing fake export documents and getting

various duty credit licenses such as DEPB/FPS/DFIA/VKGUY from different

offices of Directorate General of Foreign Trade, and on the basis of such

documents, duty evasions were being made at the time of import by

discharging duty liability using such fraudulently procured scrips. As per the

Department, such fake export documents were being shown to be made

from one of the non-EDI, Land Customs Stations, namely Ghojadanga Land

Customs Stations (LCS) under the jurisdiction of Commissionerate of

Customs (Preventive), West Bengal, wherein, two persons, namely Shri

Paresh Daftry of Kolkata and Shri Jyoti Biswas of Maslandpur (a place near

Ghojadanga LCS) have been found to be involved in the said fraudulent

activities. 3. As per the Department, it was found that the person Shri Paresh

Daftry, based at 46, Ezra Street, 1st Floor, Kolkata-700 001 and partner of

Zenith Shoppe, 126/137, Radha Bazar Street, Kolkata, were the key

persons along with their associates, used to prepare fake export documents

on the basis of which licenses under DEPB/DFIA/FPS/VKUGY schemes were

used to be obtained. Shri Paresh Daftry in connivance with so called

exporters, used to sell the subject licenses through license brokers. As per

the Department, the present case is in respect of alleged fake and fraudulent

licences obtained by M/s. Aum Silk Mills (IEC 03100044381), M/s. Balaji

International (IEC 0510088279), M/s. Royal International (IEC

0309076480), M/s. Yashraj International (IEC 0510058655) and M/s.

Wardhman International (IEC 0310076218) as per details below:- 3 The above mentionedcompanies /firms were under the active

control of one Shri Sanjeev Kumar Arora being Director or Partner and three

of the main accused Shri Paresh K. Daftry, Shri Jyoti Biswas and Shri Tushar

Umarshi Kothari, were in connivance. 4. Searches were made at various premises by the departmental

officers, details of which are as below:- 700 001 on 22.09.2011. (ii) Residential premises of Shri Jyoti Biswas at 2nd Floor, Jyoti

 Cinema Building Complex, Maslandpur, 24 PGS (N), West Bengal

 on 22.09.2011. (iii) Residential remises of Shri Sanjeev Kumar Arora at Flat No.801,

 8th Floor, Wing-A, Mira Housing Cooperative Society, Opposite

 Mega Mall, Andheri (West), Mumbai-400 053 on 9.11.2011. (iv) Office premises of Balaji International, C-354, Sector-10, Noida- 201 301 on 9.11.2011. (v) Residential premises of VikramArora at D-20, Sector-20, Noida- 20130 on 9.11.2011. 5. Summons were also issued to the partner/Director of the

 exporting firms/companies and statements were recorded, details of

 which are given in para 5 of the show cause notice. During the course of

 investigation, genuineness of Bank Realization Certificates (BRCs) was

 verified from concerned banks and findings of the same are given below:- 4 6. So far the appellant, M/s. Neev Trading is concerned, they have

allegedly used licenses as follows:- 7. Further, investigation was done and various statements of

various persons were recorded, inter alia, searching premises of the

concerned persons. For the sake of brevity all the details of the investigation

are not mentioned here. In furtherance of investigation, the departmental 5 officers requested the Additional Director General of Foreign Trade, Mumbai

vide DRI F.No.103/KOL/APP/2011/536 dated16.02.2012 for ab intitio

cancellation of the licences obtained on the basis of alleged fake/forged

export documents. Summary of the whole investigation is given in para 23

onwards of the show cause notice. 8. As far as appellant is concerned, the allegation has been

concluded in para 48.7 of the Order-in-Original, wherein it has been alleged

that the appellant did not purchase the subject licenses from the licensee i.e.

the exporter directly, but purchased from the market through brokers and

payments were made to brokers only. It has been further alleged that the

appellant neither tried to ascertain existence of the subject exporter nor

verified about the genuineness of the licenses through any other source;

they completely relied upon middlemen and license brokers and did not

observed due diligence while purchasing and utilising the said fraudulently

obtained licenses. It has been further alleged that M/s.Royal International

procured the licenses by submitting false,forged and fabricated documents

with the Directorate General of Foreign Trade. Accordingly, the goods so

imported under those licenses which were found to be procured on the basis

of forged and fabricated documents are liable to be treated as non-duty

paid, and appropriate duty of customs is liable to be demanded under Section 28(4) of the Customs Act, 1962. It has been alleged that the

appellant being ultimate beneficiary of such fraudulently obtained licenses

cannot disassociate themselves from the fraud or suppression committed

by their predecessor i.e. M/s.Royal International, while obtaining such fake

and fraudulent licenses by way of fake export documents. The fraud or

suppression of M/s. Royal International continues to flow to them as the

documents for obtaining such licenses are not genuine. Thus, the extended

period of time for 5 years for issuance of show cause notice under Section

28(4) of the Customs Act, 1962 could be invoked against the original holder

of fraudulent or forged licenses, the same could be invoked against the

successor or purchaser i.e. M/s. Neev Trading Company (appellant)utilising 6 the fraudulently obtained license has also made itself liable for penal action

under Section 114 A of the Customs Act, 1962. 9. So far appellant, M/s Vids Overseas is concerned, they have

utilised the licence for payment of import duty as follows:- 10. Further, the allegations of the Revenue against this appellant -

M/s.Vids Overseas are also the same as in the case of M/s Neev Trading

Company. 11. Pursuant to investigation a common show cause notice dated

26.11.2015 with further addendum dated 16.06.2017 was issued to these

appellants and others including the parties, who obtained licence from the

office of the DGFT as well as those who used the licences for payment of

import duty, totalling 27 in nos. Vide impugned order-in-original, the

allegation in the show cause notice were confirmed on contest. The proposed

duty in the show cause notice was confirmed along with equal amount of

penalty under Section 114A of the Act. 12. Assailing the impugned order, ld. Counsel, Mr. G.K. Sarkar, inter

alia stated that the demand of duty has been made against the Appellants

regarding DFIA Licenses, which are issued under Chapter 4 of the Foreign

Trade Policy. The allegation, in nutshell, against the Appellant is that they

purchased DFIA Licenses from the open market, but not from the exporter

directly and relied upon the middleman/broker and did not observe due

diligence while purchasing and utilizing the DFIA licenses, which have been

alleged to have obtained fraudulently by some unscrupulous persons, in 7 collusion with exporters. As per the allegations of department, said licenses

have been used by the Appellant in importing goods, therefore, goods so

imported under said licenses are liable to be treated as non-duty paid and

appropriate duty of customs is liable to be demanded under Section 28 (4) of the Customs Act, 1962 along with interest and penalties. 13. The case has been booked by the department regarding three

kinds of licenses/scrips i.e., DEPB scrips, DFIA Licenses and FPS Licenses. As

far as discussions and findings in the adjudication order is concerned, same

have been made in two parts; one, with respect to DEPB Licenses obtained

by some of the exporters with forged TRA (Telegraphic Release Advice)

(which is not the case of the Appellant), and the other is with respect to

DFIA Licenses regarding which no such allegation of forged TRA have been

made/discussed. As submitted above, the Appellant's case is pertaining to

DFIA Licenses. 14. The DFIA Licenses pertaining to Appellant's case, were

purchased from open market. Said licenses were registered at Nhava Sheva

Port (which is an EDI Port) and imports were made by the Appellant through

Tuticorin Port, Chennai (which is also an EDI Port). At the time of Import by

the Appellant, the Licenses were checked on DGFT Website and

undisputedly, the same were valid and duly registered with Customs. It is

thus, submitted that the Appellant is a bonafide importer who purchased the

DFIA Licenses from open market; duly utilized the same for import of goods

and at the time of import, the Licenses were valid and active and were also

duly registered with Customs. Just because the licenses were obtained by

the Exporter fraudulently, as alleged by the department, import made by the

Appellant cannot be treated as non-duty paid, as the Licenses were duly

issued by DGFT and were valid at the time of import. This Tribunal in case of Deep Exports vs. Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi reported in

2016 (338) ELT 742 (Tri-Del.), in similar situation and similar allegations

made in respect of REP Licenses, set aside the demand. Reliance is also 8 placed upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in

case of Pee Jay International VS. CC reported in 2016 (340) ELT 625

(P&H). In this case also, similar allegations were made, as made in the

present case against the Appellant. The Hon'ble High Court, after discussing

number of case laws relied upon by the department, set aside the demand

by holding that there is nothing on record to prove in any way that the

importers abetted or connived with the exporters to fraudulently obtain the

DEPB scrips, which were purchased by the importers in bonafide manner and

utilized the same for imports. 15. The department has made an averment during the course of

arguments, that fraud vitiates everything and therefore, the Appellant,

though is not party to the fraud is liable for duty as the said licenses were

obtained by the original license holders fraudulently. They relied upon on the

judgment of the Tribunal in case of Eastern Silk Indus Ltd. reported in

2016 (336) ELT 141 (Tri-Kolkata), but said reliance is misplaced. It is

submitted that this Tribunal - Larger Bench Judgment delivered in case of Hico Enterprises Vs. Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai reported in

2005 (189) ELT 135 (Tri-LB), while dealing with similar issues as raised

in the present case, observed as under : Therefore, the transferred licence and transferee has the option and they do
 not hold a licence which is void. 31. The (a) general principle is that no one can give what he has not
got. However there are exceptions to this principle. This general principle and
the exceptions are provided in Section 29 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930. Section 29 of the Sale of Goods Act reads as under : Reference may also be made to the commentary on Sale of Goods by P.S.
Atiyah, 8th Edition wherein it has been stated as under : The (b) principle contained in Section 29 of the Sale of Goods Act will apply
to the present case since 'licence' has been held to be 'goods' by Supreme
Court in Vikas Sales Corporation v. CCT - 1996 (4) SCC 433. The Supreme
Court held that transferable REP licence is 'goods', for the purposes of Section 2(7) of the Sale of Goods Act. Though Section 29 of the Sales of Goods Act refers to the buyer acquiring a
title under a voidable contract, this principle has been applied by the
Supreme Court in 1968 (2) SCR 797 in the case of Ningawwav. Byrappa
 Shiddappa Hireknrabar. Therefore, it is reiterated that the transferee-importer has attained a good
title to the licence and the endorsement of transferability cannot be held to
be not valid in the hands of the importer, who is a bona fide purchaser of the
licence. 32. The issue referred to the Larger Bench is covered by the decision of
Bombay High Court in Taparia Overseas - (a) The very same issue has been decided by the Bombay High
 Court in Taparia Overseas (P) Ltd. - 2003 (161) E.L.T. 47 (Bom). After
 referring to various decisions and the book titled 'Keer on Law of Fraud
 and Mistake', it is held as under :- (b) This decision was followed by the Bombay High Court itself in Sanjay SanwarmalAgarwal v. UOI - 2004 (169) E.L.T. 261 (Bom). In
 this case, it has been held in respect of advance licence under EXIM
 Policy. The licence of the transferee was suspended by the Licensing
 Authority on the ground of initiation of enquiry by Customs authorities
 against the transferor and imported goods of the transferee were
 seized. The licence was transferred on completion of export obligation
 and after audit of DEC books by Customs authorities. In such 10 circumstances, it is observed that the Customs authorities were wrong
 in not accepting the licence and goods were not liable to duty entitling
 the petitioner to claim refund of duty paid under protest. 33.Where transfer has been effected without notice to the transferee
 of alleged fraud, the concept of fraud vitiates everything, is not
 applicable as licence was transferred for value arising out of
 importable transaction governed by any law." 16. The abovementioned judgment of the Tribunal in Hico

Enterprises has been affirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as reported in

2008 (228) ELT 161 (S.C.). The judgment in Hico Enterprises, though

has been referred in Eastern Silk case, but has not been discussed.

Moreover, the judgment of the Tribunal in Hico Enterprises is a larger

Bench Judgment and has been affirmed by Hon'ble Supreme Court as well,

therefore, the same is binding. 17. Further, as far as case of Friends Trading Co. is concerned, same

has been considered by the same High Court i.e., Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana

High Court in case of Pee Jay International (supra) subsequently, and has

been distinguished. Thereby, demand raised against the importers were set

aside considering the fact that importers were not party to the fraud with the

seller of DEPB, which was found to be genuine document at the time of

import, though obtained by seller by producing some forged documents to

which the importer was not a party. Same is the case of these Appellants. It

is an admitted fact that Appellant was not a party to the alleged fraud. Moreover, Friends Trading Co., was decided by relying upon the judgment of

Munjal Sohwa case of Punjab & Haryana High Court, wherein scrips itself

were forged which is not the case of the Appellant. Further, in case of

Friends Trading Co., BRCs which are bank issued documents, were forged.

On the contrary, in the present case, all the BRCs pertaining to DFIA

Licenses utilized by the Appellant, have been found genuine. In case of

Eastern Silk Industries also, main reliance was placed upon case of ICI Ltd of

Calcutta High Court. In said case also, licenses itself were forged. 18. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Sneha Sales

Corporation reported in 2000 (121) ELT 577 (S.C.), relying upon earlier 11 judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of East India Commercial

reported in 1983 (13) ELT 1342, held that in a case where the licence is

obtained by misrepresentation or fraud, it is not rendered non est as a result

of its cancellation, so as to result in the goods that were imported on the

basis of the said licences and being treated as goods imported without a

licence in contravention of the order passed under Section 3 of the Import

and Export Act. It has been further held that fraud or misrepresentation only

renders a licence voidable and it becomes inoperative once it is cancelled.

This Tribunal recently in case of Khaas Textiles Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Additional

Director General (Adj.), DRI, New Delhi (Delhi Bench) (wherein Sitting

Member Judicial in the present case was presiding), followed the ratio laid

down by the Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in Pee Jay International

judgment (supra), set aside the demand raised against the importer on

similar allegations as raised in the present case. In fact, demand in said case

had arisen out of same investigation proceeding, pertaining to scrips issued

on the basis of export documents filed at Khozadanga LCS. ROM Application

filed by the department in Khaas Textiles case has also been dismissed vide

order dated 09.01.2020. 19. It is pertinent to mention that the department, in their

compilation, submitted the judgment of this Tribunal in case of Mercedes

Benz India Pvt. Ltd. reported in 2020-TIOL-996-CESTAT-DEL wherein

cases of some of the importers against whom demand was raised in same

investigation, have been decided against the importers. But, during the

course of argument, same was not argued by the learned departmental

representative. Firstly, it is submitted that said judgment passed by this

Tribunal in Division Bench matter in Mercedes Benz Case has been

challenged before the Hon'ble Delhi High Court vide Customs Appeal

CUSAA 49-52 of 2021, wherein, the Hon'ble High Court has been pleased

to issue notice, granted time to Respondent Department to file reply as

prayed by them. However, said judgment of the Tribunal is not applicable to

the present case of the Appellant. It is submitted that case of the appellant 12 is pertaining to DFIA Licenses, whereas, nowhere in the said judgment,

provisions related to DFIA Licenses or procedure followed in this respect

have been discussed. It is evident from the judgment that provisions

pertaining to only DEPB scrips, FPS Scrips and VKGUY have been discussed

therein. Further, it is apparent from the judgment of the Tribunal in

Mercedes Benz case, that the Judgments which were favourable to the

Importers, have been distinguished only on the ground that in said

judgments issue of forged TRA was not discussed. On the contrary, it is

evident from the discussion and finding portion of the Adjudication Order in

the present case that in case of DFIA, there is no allegation with respect to

forged TRA. Allegation of forged TRA has been discussed only in context of

DEPB Scrips. Further, it is apparent from the judgment of the Tribunal in

Mercedes Benz Case, that heavy reliance has been placed on provisions

related to port of registration, and it has been held that as per Trade Notice

No. 8/AM-12 dated 27.03.2012 read with para 3.11.3, in case of export

through Non-EDI Ports, port of registration shall be the port of export only,

and it cannot be changed and therefore, change of Port of Registration (i.e,

Export - Port) is thus contrary to the Exim Policy and HB of procedure by

DGFT Office. It is submitted that aforesaid Trade Notice as well as para

3.11.3 of Handbook of Procedure is applicable to scrips issued under Chapter

3 of FTP only (i.e, FPS in the subject matter), but not to the DFIA Licenses

which have been issued under Chapter 4 of FTP. The provisions of Port of

Registration for scrips issued under Chapter 3 of FTP, have been provided

under Para 3.11.3 of HB, however, provisions for Port of Registration with

respect to DFIA Licenses have been given under 'Para 4.19 of Hand Book of

Procedure' which provides to register the DFIA License at any of the Port(s)

specified in the said para. In appellant's case, the DFIA Licenses were

registered at NhavaSheva which is a specified Port as per said para. Further,

para 4.19.2 provides that requirement of TRA shall not be there if Port of

Registration and Port of Import are EDI enabled and authorization holder has

registered its authorization. In the present case Port of Import was Tuticorin 13 which is also an EDI Port. Thus, Port of Registration as well as Port of

Import, both were EDI Ports in case of Appellant and therefore, question of

forged TRA in case of Appellant does not arise. In view of aforesaid, there is

no applicability of Merecese Benz judgment of the Tribunal to the Appellant's

case. Further, DFIA is completely different from DEPB scrips. Para 4.40.1

provides that DEPB shall be issued with single Port of Registration which will

be the port from where the exports have been effected, whereas, there is no

such condition regarding DFIA Licenses. Apart from aforesaid, it is also

pertinent to mention that though judgment of Friends Trading Co. has been

heavily relied upon to give findings, but the judgment of same High Court in Pee Jay International (supra) which has distinguished judgment of Friends

Trading, has not been discussed in Mercedes Benz Judgment. In view of

aforesaid, it is submitted that said judgment passed by the Tribunal in

Mercedes Benz case is not applicable to the Appellant's case. (emp. supplied) 20. Learned Counsel for the appellant further urges that show cause

notice demanding customs duty from the Appellant under Section 28 (4) of

the Customs Act, 1962 has been issued by the Principal Director General,

DRI. The appellant, relying upon the Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Canon India Case reported in 2021 (376) ELT 3 (S.C.), and

followed by various other High Courts and the Tribunal submitted that the

demand raised against the Appellant under Section 28 (4) by the instant

show cause notice, issued by the DRI, is without jurisdiction. 21. It is pertinent to mention here that provisions to demand duty

has been provided under Section 28 which further provides two situations to

demand duty; one by invoking normal period under Section 28(1) (which

was one year during the relevant period when demand against the Appellant

was raised) under normal circumstances and the other by invoking extended

period under Section 28 (4) (which has been five years) under the

circumstances where duty has not been levied or paid or has been short

levied or short paid by reasons of collusion, or any wilfulmis-statement or 14 suppression of facts. The demand in the present case has been raised under Section 28 (4) . Canon India Judgment is squarely applicable as in the said

case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court was dealing with demand made under Section 28(4) only. 22. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Canon India (supra), while

interpreting use of word "the" before proper officer in Section 28 (4) of the

Customs Act, has held, "there are only two articles 'a (or an)' and 'the'. `A

(or an)' is known as the Indefinite Article because it does not specifically

refer to a particular person or thing. On the other hand, 'the' is called the

Definite Article because it points out and refers to a particular person or

thing. There is no doubt that, if Parliament intended that any proper officer

could have exercised power under Section 28 (4) , it could have used the

word 'any'." The Hon'ble Supreme Court further observed, "Parliament has

employed the article "the" not accidently, but with the intention to designate

the proper officer who had assessed the goods at the time of clearance. It

must be clarified that the proper officer need not be the very officer who

cleared the goods but may be his successor in office or any other officer

authorised to exercise the powers within the same office. In this case,

anyone authorised from the Appraisal Group. Assessment is a term which

includes determination of the dutiability of any goods and the amount of

duty payable with reference to, inter alia, exemption or concession of

customs duty vide Section 2 (2) (c) of the Customs Act, 1962." It has been

further observed by the Apex Court, "the nature of the power to recover the

duty, not paid or short paid after the goods have been assessed and cleared

for import, is broadly a power to review the earlier decision of assessment.

Such a power is not inherent in any authority. Indeed, it has been conferred

by Section 28 and other related provisions. The power has been so conferred

specifically on "the proper officer" which must necessarily mean the proper

officer who, in the first instance, assessed and cleared the goods i.e. the

Deputy Commissioner Appraisal Group." The Hon'ble Supreme Court also

observed, "it is well known that when a statute directs that the things be 15 done in a certain way, it must be done in that way alone. As in this case,

when the statute directs that "the proper officer" can determine duty not

levied/not paid, it does not mean any proper officer but that proper officer

alone. We find it completely impermissible to allow an officer, who has not

passed the original order of assessment, to re-open the assessment on the

grounds that the duty was not paid/not levied, by the original officer who

had decided to clear the goods and who was competent and authorised to

make the assessment". 23. It is important to mention the observation of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, in Canon India Judgment given in connection with question

posed in the judgment as to whether the Additional Director General of the

DRI who issued the recovery notice under Section 28(4) , was even a proper

officer. The Apex Court held, "the Additional Director General can be

considered to be a proper officer only if it is shown that he was a Customs

officer under the Customs Act . In addition, that he was entrusted with the

functions of the proper officer under Section 6 of the Customs Act. The

Additional Director General of the DRI can be considered to be a Customs

officer only if he is shown to have been appointed as Customs officer under

the Customs Act ." The Hon'ble Supreme Court specifically dealt with this

aspect in para 18 to 20, relevant portion of which reads as under: 19. It appears that a Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner of
 Customs has been entrusted with the functions under Section 28 , vide Sl.
 No.3 above. By reason of the fact that the functions are assigned to officers
 referred to in Column (3) and those officers above the rank of officers
 mentioned in Column (2), the Commissioner of Customs would be included
 as an officer entitled to perform the function under Section 28 of the Act
 conferred on a Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner but the
 notification appears to be ill-founded. The notification is purported to
 have been issued in exercise of powers under sub-Section (34) of Section 2 of the Customs Act. This section does not confer any
 powers on any authority to entrust any functions to officers. The sub- 16 Section is part of the definitions clause of the Act, it merely defines a
 proper officer. .......................... 21. If it was intended that officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence
 who are officers of Central Government should be entrusted with functions of
 the Customs officers, it was imperative that the Central Government should
 have done so in exercise of its power under Section 6 of the Act. The reason
 why such a power is conferred on the Central Government is obvious and
 that is because the Central Government is the authority which appoints both
 the officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence which is set up under
 the Notification dated 04.12.1957 issued by the Ministry of Finance and
 Customs officers who, till 11.5.2002, were appointed by the Central
 Government. The notification which purports to entrust functions as proper
 officer under the Customs Act has been issued by the Central Board of Excise
 and Customs in exercise of non-existing power under Section 2 (34) of the
 Customs Act. The notification is obviously invalid having been issued by an
 authority which had no power to do so in purported exercise of powers under
 a section which does not confer any such power. 24. Moreover, there is no allegation of collusion or wilfulmis-

statement or suppression of facts on part of Appellant,which is evident from

show cause notice as well as adjudication order. In any case, no artificial

distinction can be made regarding applicability of Canon India judgment as

has been attempted by the department in the present case, as there is no

separate provision for demanding duty under the Customs Act except Section 28 (1) and 28 (4) in case of so called fraud which has been alleged,

that too, not against the Appellant. It is submitted that the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court is binding over all courts in terms of Article 141 of

the Constitution of India. In view of the judgment in Canon India Case

which has been followed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court itself, further in case

of Commissioner of Customs, Kandla Vs. M/s Agarwal Metals and

Alloys - Civil Appeal No 3411 of 2020 and Commissioner of Customs,

Kandla Vs. M/s Sunland Metal Recycling Industries - Civil Appeal No.

5053 of 2021, and by various High Courts in several cases namely -Kitchen

Essentials & Ors. Vs Union of India & Ors. Reported in 2021 (10) TMI

1267- Bombay High Court, Quantum Coal Energy (P) Ltd. Vs.

Commissioner, Tuticorin reported in 2021 (3) TMI 1034 - Madras High

Court, Shri Mohan C. Suvarna, Director, (Finance & Admin) M/s Givaudan

India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. The Principal Commissioner of Customs, Additional

Director General, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence reported in 2021 (8)

TMI 178 - Karnataka High Court, M/s Steelman Industries Vs. Union of India 17 &Ors. Reported in 2021 (8) TMI 1236 - Punjab & Haryana High Court, the

demand raised against the Appellant in the present case is without

jurisdiction. It is pertinent to mention that the said ratio laid down by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court, of DRI not having jurisdiction to raise demand

under Section 28 (4) of the Customs Act, has been further followed by the

Tribunal as well in number of cases. Few of such cases are as below - (i) Principal Commissioner, Customs, ACC Import
 Commissionerate New Customs House vs. Dish TV India
 Limited, Rajeev Dalmia and Virender Targa (Vice-Versa)
 reported in 2021 (10) TMI 771 - CESTAT Delhi. (ii) C. Magudapathy vs. Commissioner of Customs (Seaport-Export)
 reported in 2021 (9) TMI 636 - CESTAT Chennai (iii) M/s. Modern Insecticides Limited vs. Commissioner of
 Customs, Ludhiana reported in 2021 (10) TMI 598 - CESTAT
 Chandigarh. (iv) Dhiren Enterprise vs. Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication) - Customs Appeal No. 893 of 2012. (v) M/s Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories Pvt. Ltd Vs.
 Commissioner of Customs (Import) - Customs Appeal No.
 51570 of 2019. The abovementioned cases have been relied upon by the
Appellant in their written submissions as well, and none of them has been
rebutted by the Respondent Department. DEMAND IS TIME BARRED 25. It is submitted that the demand has been raised against the

Appellant in the present case under Section 28 (4) by invoking extended

period of limitation. The learned Adjudicating Authority, while dealing with

the submissions made in this regard, in para 83, observed,

 "A plea has been taken that the demand is time barred as the same
 has been issued beyond a period of one year. From the foregoing
 discussion, it has already been concluded that fraud exists in whole
 exercise of fraudulent export/obtaining of DFIA/DEPB Scrip on forged
 documents and in the case of DEPB, further subsequent use of forged
 TRA as well as forged telegraphic confirmation based on forged letter
 purported to have been issued by Customs Port of Registration of
 scrips. The importers did not exercise due diligence in checking the
 correctness of exports for the DEPB/DFIA Licenses or the TRA's and
 merely relied upon a set of middlemen for obtaining such license on
 fake export documents and fake TRA's and therefore, extended period
 of limitation is correctly invokable under Section 28(4) to recover the
 Customs Duty along with interest under Section 28AA of the Customs
 Act, 1962 from the impugned importers who have used such licenses
 for debiting duty." 26. It is urged that Section 28 (4) provides to recover duty where

the same has not been levied/short paid by the importer by reasons of

collusion or willful mis-statement or suppression of facts. It is evident from

the observation of the learned Adjudicating Authority, that there is no

allegation against the Appellant (who is an importer) of any ingredients

provided under Section 28 (4) to invoke extended period of limitation. The

only observation is that the Appellant did not exercise due diligence in

checking correctness of exports for DFIA Licenses. In this regard, it is

submitted that the Appellant has no means to check the exports. The

clearances are done by the Customs Officers. Licenses are issued or given by

the DGFT Authorities after due diligence. It is undisputed fact that the DFIA

Licenses used by the Appellant (which were purchased by the Appellant from

open market) were duly issued by the DGFT. It is also an undisputed fact

that the DFIA Licenses used by the Appellants were valid and duly registered

by the Customs at the Port. It is also an undisputed fact that the Appellant

had no role or involvement in alleged fraud (even if any) done by the

exporters for obtaining Licenses. Therefore, extended period of limitation

cannon be invoked against the Appellants. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of Uniworth Textiles Ltd. Vs. Commissioner of Central Excise,

Raipur reported in 2013 (288) ELT 161(SC) has dealt with the scope of

extended period of limitation on the grounds, "suppression of facts, willful

mis-representation of facts etc." and thereby held in clear terms that

extended period cannot be invoked unless it is shown that the Appellant

deliberately colluded with the exporter who fraudulently obtained licenses,

willfully mis-stated or suppressed any material facts known to them, which

led to evasion of duty. Hence, extended period cannot be invoked against

the Appellants. The Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad in the case of Commissioner of Customs, Central Excise & Service Tax VS.

Monsanto Manufacturer Pvt. Ltd. reported in 2014 (35) STR 177, held

that once any case is barred by imitation, then there is no need to proceed

for looking into the merit, of the case. 27. Ld. Authorised Representative, Shri Sunil Kumar relies on the

impugned order. He further urges that the appellant have taken benefit

based on the licences, which have been obtained by the third persons by

fraud and forgery from the DGFT. Further, the appellant have not done due

diligence before buying the licence/scrips /using the same. He further relies

on the following rulings:- viii) Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. [2015 (319) ELT 546 (SC)

 Accordingly, he prays for dismissing the appeals. 28. Having considered the rival contentions, we find that the issue

involved in the present case is regarding the utilisation of DFIA license Nos.

0310606860 dated 20.12.2010 and 0310606862 dated 20.12.2010 in the

case of Neev Trading Co., and Licences Nos.0310603943 dated 01.12.2010

and No.0310610819 dated 13.01.2011 in the case of Vids Overseas, which

were issued by the Director General Foreign Trade (DGFT) for an amount (as

specified in paras 6 and 9 above), which was later on transferred to the

appellant for consideration at premium of 97% approx. The amount of

consideration for purchasing of the said licenses from the transferor was

paid through Cheque or banking channel. The said license(s) was utilised by 20 the appellants towards the import duty vide Bills of Entry filed during

January, 2011 to August, 2011. It is not in dispute that these license(s) has

been obtained by the exporters on the basis of fake export documents. The

Department has taken up the matter for cancellation of theDFIA license(s)

with DGFT by the DRI on 16.02.2012. In other words, the above

license(s)are genuine licence in the record of DGFT. 29. Nowhere it is the case of the Department that these appellants

colluded with any of the persons concerned, for alleged fraud/ forgery/

manipulation of the documents on the basis of which, licenses were

obtained. Nor it is the case of the Department that these appellants wilfully

mis-stated any of the material facts with regard to their import

consignments. Neither it is the case that these appellants suppressed any

facts with intent to evade payment of duty. The only observation in the show

cause notice and the impugned order is that these appellants did not

exercise due diligence in checking the correctness of exports on the basis of

which documents DEPB/DFIA licences were issued. 30. Once the DGFT makes the licences transferrable and negotiable

on fulfilment of the export obligation, the licences are transferable by

delivery and/or endorsement to the transferee. Once the licence is made

transferable, the same are traded by the parties through brokers, which is

permitted under the DGFT Policy and Foreign Trade Policy. There was no

reasons to disbelief the licences issued by the Competent Authority/DGFT.

Thus, the same were duly reflected on the website of the DGFT. It is not the

case of the Department that the licences itself were forged/fabricated. It is

an admitted fact that the licences were genuinely issued by the DGFT after

due diligence and were valid at the time of imports made by the appellants. In the circumstances, we find that the appellant is correct in relying on the

Ruling of the Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of P.J.

International Vs. Commissioner of Customs (Supra ). 21 31. We further observe that the Adjudicating Authority have erred in

not appreciating that these appellants were bonafide purchaser of DIFA

licences, which were validly issued and made transferable by DGFT, as well

as registered by the Customs Department on their website, on the date of

purchase and utilisation by these appellants. Further, admittedly, the

licenses in question have been cancelled much thereafter in the month of

May, 2012 by the DGFT. 32. We also find in case of Commissioner of Customs vs. Leader

Valves Limited reported in 2007 (218) ELT 349 ( P & H), the similar issue

came for consideration in respect of DEPB license purchased from open

market under the bonafide belief of being genuine. The para 9 of the

judgment, which is relevant, is as under; 33. Accordingly, we set aside the demand of duty and penalty on

these appellants. We also hold that in the facts and circumstances, the

extended period of limitation is not invokable, as admittedly, there is no

case of fraud, mis-statement or contumacious conduct on the part of these

appellants. 34. Thus, as these appeals are allowed on merits, it is not necessary

for us to consider the question of jurisdiction. 35. These appeals are allowed. (Pronounced on 22.03.2022). (ANIL CHOUDHARY)
 MEMBER (JUDICIAL)

 (P. V. SUBBA RAO)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
Ckp