Mr. Debdatta Sen, Adv.,
 Mr. D.D. De, Adv.,
 Mr. A.K. Sen, Adv. Hearing concluded on: August 20, 2009. BEFORE
The Hon'ble Justice
SANJIB BANERJEE
Date: August 24, 2009. SANJIB BANERJEE, J. : - By the beginning of May the petitioners caused the accounts to be closed
and the company instructed the bank to make over the title deeds to the
company's factory premises and other collateral security to the second petitioner.
The petitioners rely on the bank statements to demonstrate that the company
owed nothing to the bank. On May 12, 2009 the company wrote to both the zonal
manager and the branch manager of the bank that the company's borrowals had
been taken over by the Chowringhee Branch of State Bank of India. The letter
recorded that a banker's cheque for Rs.15 crore issued by State Bank had been
encashed by the respondent bank and appropriated against the company's
outstanding balances. The company complained that inspite such adjustments
having been completed by May 9, 2009 the title deeds and the customary no-
objection and no-dues certificates had not been made over to it by the
respondent bank. The petitioners say that the respondent bank was aware that the petitioner
company had obtained credit facilities from State Bank to clear off its debt to the
respondent bank. They submit that a certificate had been issued by the
respondent bank in the company's favour on January 12, 2009, certifying the
credit worthiness of the company. The petitioners insist that they could not
gauge why the respondent bank retained the title deeds despite having no claims
against the company. They refer to the three letters issued in a span of ten days
by the company to the bank. The last of such letters of May 16, 2009
complained,

 "As you are aware and also requested repeatedly by us, we are yet to
 receive the above documents inspite of our account being adjusted on
 09.05.09. We refer and enclose herewith the copy of your last Branch letter No.
 AGM/88/09-10/70 DATED 24.04.09 wherein it is clearly specified to shift
 our account to some other bank. Since now we have shifted, you are not handing over the above documents
 to us and delaying such handing over by stating that you are yet to receive
 consent from Central Office at Mumbai. Your above Branch letter can only be written to us after having such
 consent from Central Office/Zonal Office. We understand that delay in
 handing over the documents is intentional and deliberate. We request you to immediately handover our above requested and required
 documents." A further demand for the return of the security documents was made on
the petitioners' behalf on May 22, 2009 before these proceedings were instituted
during the summer vacation. On June 3, 2009 the Vacation Bench directed
affidavits to be filed. The bank's first affidavit of June 8, 2009 announced that
"the petitioner company has cleared all its dues that were shown due and
payable in their accounts maintained with the Burrabazar Branch of the Central
Bank other than the Letter of Credit." The bank claimed that since the liability of
the bank under the revolving letter of credit was still alive when the petitioner
 company had sought the return of its security documents, the bank had retained
the same. At paragraph 12 of the bank's first affidavit, it claimed that its
Burrabazar branch had extended banking facilities to one Rajco Steel Enterprises
which was a partnership firm. The bank claimed that Rajco had fraudulently
siphoned out substantial sums from the bank to the accounts of other
constituents of the bank maintained at various branches. The bank averred that
it caused an investigation to be conducted whereupon it transpired that a "huge
amount was siphoned out from the account of Rajco Steel to the account of
petitioner no. 1." The affidavit informed that the bank had lodged a complaint
with the Central Bureau of Investigation on March 14, 2009 and had
commissioned a special audit to ascertain the extent of the fraud. The bank
referred to the report of the special audit released on April 2, 2009 that revealed
that the petitioner company "was also involved in fraudulent transaction of Rajco
Steel." At the time that the affidavit was filed, the bank claimed that it was in the
process of initiating recovery proceedings against Rajco and its associates
concerns in whose accounts money had been lodged. The affidavit contended that
if the bank was required to release the securities furnished by the petitioner
company it would suffer serious prejudice. In a subsequent supplementary affidavit used by the bank it has disclosed
a letter dated July 6, 2009 issued to the petitioner company alleging, inter alia,
as follows: The petitioners say that if the bank was aware in February, 2009 that a
fraud had been perpetrated by Rajco and if the bank suspected the petitioners'
complicity therein, the bank ought first to have recalled the creditworthiness
certificate issued on January 12, 2009 to a fellow nationalised bank. The
petitioners assert that the bank did not inform the petitioners prior to the
institution of the proceedings that it had any reason to suspect any foul play on
the petitioners' part. Though it appears odd that the petitioner company did not question the
bank's diktat for the company to remove its accounts therefrom, it is also evident
that there was no contemporaneous assertion made by the bank of the
petitioners' complicity in the alleged fraud said to have been perpetrated by
Rajco. There was no reply by the bank to any of the letters issued by or on behalf
of the petitioners between May 6 and May 22, 2009. The bank now relies on its special audit report to say that the company has
been indicted therein. The report suggests that the petitioner company and
another company allegedly used as a conduit in Rajco's scheme to siphon off
funds are managed by the same Gupta family. The report complains of two senior
officials of the bank being involved in the alleged scam. The bank states that one
of the tainted officers had issued the certificate on behalf of the bank vouching
for the credit of the company. The bank relies on Section 171 of the Contract Act, 1872 in support of its
conduct. It says that though in deference to the pending proceedings it has not
debited the accounts of the company by the amount that had been fraudulently
withdrawn from the bank by Rajco and its accomplices including the petitioner
company, the bank was entitled to withhold the title deeds in exercise of its lien
as a banker recognised by the provision. The petitioners insist that this bank has no right of the kind that it
canvasses under Section 171 of the Act. They suggest that neither precondition
to the entitlement to the lien under the said provision is met by the bank. The
petitioners bring high authorities to assert that the expression "general balance
of account" in Section 171 would imply an immediate right to receive payment.
They say that the second precondition to invocation of Section 171 would be the
absence of an express or implied contract to return the goods covered by the
section. They submit that in the bank's offer to the company to remove its
accounts and the bank's receipt of the entire sum due in the accounts, there is
an implied contract to not retain the title deeds. It is also the undisputed position
that in course of these proceedings the bank has been absolved of its liability
under the letter of credit upon the same being taken over by State Bank. The petitioners say that the respondent bank's conduct is unbecoming of a
nationalised bank and an instrumentality of the State. They say that the bank
induced the petitioners to adopt a course of action on the premise that the title
 deeds would be returned upon the accounts being squared up. They assert that
the respondent bank was aware that the company was in negotiation with State
Bank and it was incumbent on the company to deposit the title deeds to obtain
credit facilities from State Bank. The petitioners refer to the respondent bank
having received a cheque for Rs.15 crore directly from the State Bank and being
aware, therefore, that the title deeds were required to be made over to the other
bank. They claim that the respondent bank is a trustee in possession of the title
deeds for the benefit of another nationalised bank. They question the motive of
the respondent bank in inducing State Bank to part with public funds in a
premeditated scheme to cause double jeopardy to the company. The petitioners
lament that they now have two sets of creditors without adequate security to
meet either since the respondent bank has arbitrarily foisted Rajco's alleged
liability on the petitioner company and they are hounded by State Bank upon
their failure to deposit the title deeds with such bank. The petitioners say that quite apart from the principles of promissory
estoppel or legitimate expectation that they can invoke to seek immediate return
of the title deeds from the bank, good conscience and equity would demand that
this nationalised bank is commanded to make over the title deeds forthwith, if
not to the company, directly to State Bank. The legal issue hinges on the scope of Section 171 of the Contract Act and
the bank's rights thereunder: The petitioners rely on an unreported judgment of this Court in WP No.
1392 of 1996 (Mangal Finance Ltd. & anr. v. United Bank of India) delivered on
August 20, 1996 and the following passage therefrom: In Mangal Finance there was no lien that the bank therein had sought to
exercise. The bank there had asserted a right to combine accounts by claiming
that the further operation of the petitioner company's account could be stopped
on the bank's perception that the directors of the petitioner company were closely
linked to a person who had allegedly defrauded the bank. In the judgment reported at 1987 (2) Cal LJ 474 (M/s. Gupta Biscuits (P)
Ltd. v. United Commercial Bank & anr.) which the petitioners cite, the issue
involved was whether the bank could refuse to honour cheques issued by the
 petitioner company having sufficient balance to its credit on account of another
concern with which the directors of the company were associated had failed to
repay money due to the bank. A judgment reported at (1999) 7 SCC 359 (Board of Trustees of the Port of
Bombay & ors. v. Sriyanesh Knitters) is next brought by the petitioners to suggest
that the amount claimed had to be legally due. A passage from paragraph 17 of
the report is placed: The petitioners have referred to Paget's Law of Banking (12th Ed.) and
Halsbury's Laws of England (4th Ed.), volume 3 to demonstrate the extent of a
banker's right to exercise lien. The petitioners have relied on a judgment reported at (1843-1860) All ER
Rep 719 (Brandao v. Barnett & ors.) which has been quoted with approval in a
number of Supreme Court judgments. The petitioners submit that even an
implied contract to the contrary would prohibit a bank from exercising its lien
over goods bailed to it. The following passage is relevant: And LORD DENMAN, in pronouncing judgment in the present case in the
 Exchequer Chamber, says: The judgment reported at (1992) 2 SCC 330 ( Syndicate Bank v. Vijay
Kumar & ors.) is cited and the following passage from paragraph 6 of the report is
placed by the petitioners in support of their contention that the law is not
different in this country: In Brandao v. Barnett , it was stated as under: (All ER p. 722-H)

 "Bankers, most undoubtedly, have a general lien on all securities
 deposited with them, as bankers, by a customer, unless there be an
 express contract, or circumstances that show an implied contract,
 inconsistent with lien." The above passages go to show that by mercantile system the Bank has a
 general lien over all forms of securities or negotiable instruments deposited
 by or on behalf of the customer in the ordinary course of banking business
 and that the general lien is a valuable right of the banker judicially
 recognised and in the absence of an agreement to the contrary, a Banker
 has a general lien over such securities or bills received from a customer in
 the ordinary course of banking business and has a right to use the
 proceeds in respect of any balance that may be due from the customer by
 way of reduction of customer's debit balance. Such a lien is also applicable
 to negotiable instruments including FDRs which are remitted to the Bank
 by the customer for the purpose of collection. There is no gainsaying that
 such a lien extends to FDRs also which are deposited by the customer." The petitioners have also relied on a judgment reported at AIR 2004 Orissa
142 ( Alekha Sahoo v. Puri Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd. & ors ) and have placed
the following passage from paragraph 11 of the report: A judgment reported at AIR 2006 P&H 73 (M/s. Jay Kay Synthetics v.
Punjab Financial Corporation, Chandigarh & anr.) is next placed and paragraph
10 of the report is relied on: The bank says that in respect of a contractual right the Court should not
usually interfere in this jurisdiction. A judgment reported at (2008) 12 SCC 541
( Indian Bank v. Godhara Nagrik Coop. Credit Society Ltd ) is relied upon in such
context. Paragraphs 12 and 35 and a passage from paragraph 46 of the report
are apposite: The parties have also placed a judgment reported at (1979) 2 Lloyd's Law
Reports 142 (Siebe Gorman & Co. Ltd. v. Barclays Bank Ltd.) and a judgment of a
learned Single Judge reported at AIR 2008 Cal 193 (Gour Nitye Tea & Industries
Ltd. & anr. v. Central Bank of India & ors.) and the appeal therefrom reported at
AIR 2008 Cal 207 (Central Bank of India & ors. v. Gour Nitya and Industries Ltd.
& ors.). Section 171 of the Contract Act recognises a special right of the five classes
of persons referred to in the opening words specified therein. Such five classes of
persons are conferred a right to retain any goods bailed to them subject to the
two conditions that there must be no contract to the contrary and that the goods
may be retained as a security for a general balance of account. Other bailees are
not granted any statutory right to retain the goods bailed to them though the
section recognises that there might be express contracts entitling such other
bailees to retain the goods. A general lien is the right to retain the property of
another for a general balance of account. The word "lien" apparently means
"binding" and is derived from the Latin ligamen. Its lexical meaning is "the right
to retain." Lien is understood to be a right of defence and not a right of action. Since
it is a right of defence, a creditor may exercise such right for obtaining
satisfaction of the debt though an action to enforce the debt may be time-barred.
In case of a banker's lien it is confined to the securities and properties in the
custody of a banker and in respect of goods that belong to the customer and is
held by the bank as security. The security may have been furnished in respect of
one account but the banker's common law right of combining accounts may
permit the banker to retain the security to secure the payment of the debt due
from the same customer in respect of another account. The bank here says that it is only because of the pending court
proceedings that the bank had not debited the account of the petitioner company
to the extent that the bank found that the petitioner company had received
monies from Rajco. The bank agrees with the petitioners that the claim in respect
of which a lien is exercised has to be a present claim, but disagrees with the
petitioners' suggestion that the claim has to be in respect of an ascertainable
amount. The petitioners suggest that, at the highest, the bank's claim here
against the petitioner company would be one of damages and no lien can be
exercised in furtherance of a demand for unliquidated damages. The bank
questions such legal proposition on the ground that a wharfinger may claim on
account of demurrage that, by its very nature, is a claim in damages. There may not be any need to address the issue as to whether a lien may
be exercised only in respect of an ascertained amount. It appears, however, that
the section supports the exercise of a lien by a banker for a general balance of
account. As long as a banker shows something due from the constituent by way
of general balance of account, the banker may retain the goods bailed to it as
security. There is the other condition for exercising the right recognised in Section
171 of the Contract Act that the parties have debated on. The petitioners have
brought high authorities to suggest that even an implied contract to the contrary
may be cited by a constituent to deny the lien sought to be exercised by a
banker. The bank argues that the contract envisaged by the expression "in the
absence of contract to the contrary", is a contract at the inception; as in the
agreement between the banker and the constituent at the time that the security
was furnished. Again, an answer on such question may be unnecessary in the
present context. At the time that the respondent bank last wrote to the petitioner company
for it to remove its borrowal accounts from the bank, it was aware of the alleged
 fraud having been perpetrated by Rajco. By the time that the company caused
the cheque for Rs.15 crore to be deposited with the respondent bank by State
Bank, the bank had the report of the special audit that it had commissioned. It is
also not the bank's case that it was not aware by then that one of its officers had
certified the creditworthiness of the petitioner company on behalf of the bank in a
letter issued to State Bank. Yet, it does not appear from the contemporaneous
correspondence or the bank's affidavits that the bank recalled its letter issued to
State Bank or otherwise made State Bank aware of the bank's suspicion that the
petitioner company was a party to the alleged fraud perpetrated on it by Rajco.
The bank did not inform the petitioners of the bank's suspicion. The bank
permitted its certificate issued by an alleged tainted officer to be relied upon by
another nationalised bank, it received the payment on behalf of the petitioner
company from State Bank and, prior to the institution of the proceedings, did not
assert the lien that it now claims. In the bank inducing the petitioner company to remove its borrowal
accounts without alleging any wrongdoing on the company's part and in the bank
receiving the payment and obtaining the benefit of having all its accounts in
respect of the petitioner company squared up without so much as a whisper of its
suspicion of the company's complicity in the alleged fraud, it forfeited, by its
conduct, any right to exercise the lien on the documents of title that the
petitioner company had deposited for obtaining the credit facilities. The admitted position is that immediately upon the receipt of the cheque
for Rs.15 crore from State Bank, the bank's statements of accounts furnished to
the petitioner company revealed that no further amounts remained outstanding
therein. With the bank's liability in respect of the revolving letter of credit also
having been taken over subsequently by State Bank, there was no amount due
from the petitioner company to the bank in the general balance of account for the
bank to exercise any lien in respect of title deeds. It is not necessary to give the
bank's conduct any name once it is found that the bank had acted arbitrarily
 and unreasonably in retaining the title deeds despite there being no immediate
debt due from the company. It is made clear that the allegations levelled by the bank that the petitioner
company and its officers were party to the alleged fraud perpetrated by Rajco and
the petitioners' denial thereof have not been gone into. WP No. 485 of 2009 succeeds. A writ of mandamus do issue commanding
the respondent bank to forthwith return the title deeds deposited by the
petitioner company to such company. There will be no order as to costs. Urgent certified photostat copies of this judgment, if applied for, be
supplied to the parties subject to compliance with all requisite formalities. (Sanjib Banerjee, J.)

 Later: