Dated this the 22nd day of July, 2020
S. Manikumar, CJ
 Instant public interest writ petition is filed for the following reliefs: Mobility Consultancy scams, and to conduct an effective,
 meaningful, independent and impartial enquiry, unmindful
 of the fact that those who could be involved in the crimes
 are in the helm of affairs of the State, and/or to further
 direct the State and Central Governments to facilitate such
 an investigation, nay, direct the State Government to
 handover the investigation to the CBI. c) To issue a writ in the nature of mandamus or any other
 appropriate writ, order or direction, directing respondents
 12, 13 and 16, namely, the CBI and/or the NIA and/or the
 Crime Branch to register an FIR, and conduct an effective,
 meaningful, independent and impartial enquiry into the
 smuggling of gold to India, by abusing the diplomatic
 channel and the Sprinklr, e-Mobility Consultancy scams,
 unmindful of the fact that those, who could be a part of the
 crimes, are in the helm of the affairs of the State, in matters
 which fall undoubtedly within their exclusive jurisdiction. W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 5 2. Short facts leading to the filing of the writ petition are that,-

instant writ is the second petition, in the nature of 'qui tam action' under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, which the petitioner is instituting

for remedies by way of a writ of mandamus and, in particular, registration

of an FIR, and thereby, setting of the criminal law in motion against Sri.

Pinarayi Vijayan, the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Kerala and Sri. M.

Shivashankaran, Secretary in-charge of the Hon'ble Chief Minister's

office, for offences under the Conservation Of Foreign Exchange and

Prevention Of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 , Indian Penal Code , 1860, Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and the Customs Act, 1962 . 3. Petitioner has further stated that it is the fundamental principle of

law that it is the duty of every citizen to initiate criminal law in motion,

and where the authorities responsible for putting the criminal law in

motion fail or abdicate the responsibility, to seek judicial redressal by

initiating a 'qui tam action'- qui tam pro domino rege quam pro se ipso in

hac parte sequitur, he, who sues in this matter for the king as well as for

himself - and seek a remedy in the nature of writ of mandamus. In the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 6 month of April, 2020, petitioner had to institute a petition under Article

226 of the Constitution of India, since police had failed to register an FIR

against respondents 1 and 2, concerning the Sprinklr scam, in spite of a

written complaint of the petitioner asserting that the allegations made

against them, by him and others amount to criminal abuse of official

position and power entailing in unjust enrichment which clearly

constituted offences punishable under various provisions of the

Prevention of Corruption Act, Indian Penal Code and IT Act. This Court

admitted the writ petition and ordered notice to the 2 nd respondent viz.,

Sri. M. Shivashankaran. The order passed in W.P.(C) (Temp.) No.129 of

2020 is extracted hereunder: 4. Petitioner has further stated that the fact that criminal law was

not ordered to be set in motion, emboldened respondent Nos.1 & 2 and

others to carry on their abuse of power to make quick money. According

to the petitioner, Sprinklr scam was succeeded by two other scams, viz.,

BevQ App and e-Mobility Consultancy scams, and if the allegations of

respondent No.16, the Leader of Opposition, are true and if the said

allegations are to be believed, they constitute corruption and crime of a

scale unheard in the history of Kerala, by any political leader/bureaucrats. 5. Petitioner has further stated that the allegation is that respondents

Nos.2 and 3, viz., Sri.M Shivashankaran, IAS and Ms. Swapna Suresh,

the Operation Manager at KSITIL, are involved in smuggling of 30 kgs

of gold from UAE to India using the diplomatic channel. It is alleged that

the customs went on to examine the baggage sent through the diplomatic

channel since it received certain intelligence inputs to the effect that the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 8 diplomatic channel is used by the international mafia for smuggling gold

to India, without paying duty. 6. It is further alleged that the customs officers were threatened

with dire consequences. According to the petitioner, it is in the public

domain, the 5th respondent was appointed by the 2nd respondent,

exercising his discretionary powers solely on the recommendations of

respondent No.6-PriceWaterHouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. (PwC), a

consultancy firm involved in e-Mobility Consultancy scam. 7. It is further stated that respondent No.5 was instrumental in the

fabrication of a false complaint of sexual harassment against an officer of

Air India while she was working with AISATS. In March, 2015, Swapna

Suresh allegedly made a false complaint forging the signatures of 17

female staffers against an Air India official, accusing him of sexual

harassment at the workplace. It is stated that Swapna Suresh resigned

from Air India SATS and joined the UAE consulate to evade police

interrogation. The forgery committed by her was unearthed by the Crime

Branch which found that the complaint was lodged to wreak vengeance W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 9 on the said officer, who had allegedly complained to the CBI and the

CVC against certain irregularities in the contracts of Air India. 8. It is further alleged that Ms. Swapna Suresh, despite the criminal

or questionable background, was appointed by the 2 nd respondent,

Secretary to the Hon'ble Chief Minister, in exercise of his discretionary

powers as Operational Manager in KSITIL. It is further alleged that she

was involved in the conduct of major events like the programme arranged

for the honour of Sheikh of Sharjah on 24.09.2017. It is further alleged

that she was one among the VIPs, who had the permission to speak to the

Hon'ble Chief Minister and the Sheikh. It is also alleged that she was

associated with the conduct of Kerala Lok Sabha and she is a friend of

Speaker Mr. P.Sreeramakrishnan, who inaugurated the office of a

company with which Swapna Suresh is associated. The petitioner further

alleged that the Hon'ble Chief Minister knows her very well, that too, her

background, for the Hon'ble Chief Minister is provided with intelligence

inputs of those working in his office and those who closely interact with

him. The 2nd respondent used to visit a flat of Mudavanmugal, W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 10 Trivandrum, where the 5th respondent resides and often used to leave the

premises beyond midnight, in an inebriated state. It is alleged that he

used to go there in the State car. The 2 nd respondent Mr. M.Shivshankaran

and the Hon'ble Chief Minister's family have certain common business

interests of international ramifications. It is further alleged that the

Hon'ble Chief Minister, though may not be directly involved in the nitty

gritties of transactions involving companies of questionable credentials

like Sprinklr, PwC, etc., he certainly is fully aware of the business worth

hundreds of crores of rupees which was building and further promoted by

abusing his official position as the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Kerala. 9. Petitioner has further stated that the truth of the allegations

regarding corruption, abuse of office, smuggling and other illegal

activities, even involving international mafia, of which the Hon'ble Chief

Minister's office is alleged to be nerve center, is required to be

investigated effectively and all those, who are involved with the offence,

are liable to be brought to book. However, considering the current

realities of life, it is going to be a mere mirage. Political equations keep W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 11 changing, there is nothing wrong in that, but registration of an FIR,

investigation of an offence, and bringing of an accused to book cannot be

a matter of political equations. With utmost respect to the 15 th respondent,

the Leader of the Opposition, petitioner has submitted that the Leader of

the Opposition, who had made serious demand for investigation into the

Sprinklr scam and unearthing the truth, and that nobody shall be spared,

when he instituted a writ petition, a so-called PIL, before this Court as the

petitioner, did not even array Shri Pinarayi Vijayan, the Hon'ble Chief

Minister as a party, much less seek the registration of crime. It is further

submitted that the Leader of the Opposition and other political leaders

may not be much concerned about the only issue which is justiciable,

namely, a plea for mandamus at the hands of this Court for registration

of an FIR, an investigation of the crime, which, to repeat, alone

is justiciable. 10. In short, it is contended that the petitioner has instituted the

instant writ petition as a person aggrieved, in the enforcement of his

rights, qua as a citizen he has every right, nay, even a duty to demand W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 12 that crimes involving the mighty and the powerful, even putting to

jeopardy national interest, which smuggling through diplomatic channels,

undoubtedly constitutes to be, be investigated. It is incorrect to say that

the instant petition is a PIL, for PIL is an action where a person who has

not suffered any personal injury or has no vested right in him, takes up the

cause of a third person, who out of his poverty, illiteracy and other like

reasons, unable to approach the Court, invokes the jurisdiction of the

court on his behalf. The petitioner herein is acting on his own, in the

enforcement of his rights, seeking a writ in the nature of mandamus to

compel the Police and other law enforcing authorities to discharge their

duties, namely, investigation into the various criminal offences allegedly

committed by a gang of people of which the 2 nd respondent,

Shivshankaran, IAS officer, is alleged to be kingpin, of which the gold

smuggling scam is last in the long chain of corrupt deeds, namely, the

Sprinklr, BevQ app and e-mobility consultancy scams. Petitioner, therefore,

has locus standi to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court to compel the police

to register an FIR and conduct a just and fair investigation, in other W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 13 words, to set the criminal law in motion and other remedies. 11. Petitioner has further stated that registration of FIR is the first

step towards investigation of a crime. It entails in no adverse civil

consequences in law, though in reality, it might be because of public

perception. When considering investigation of crimes, bringing the

criminals to book, and the resultant prevention of crimes, when contrasted

with the damage, in terms of public perception, which an individual may

suffer upon an FIR being registered, the former shall prevail. Registration

of FIR is not a punishment. It is upto the bona fide discretion of the

investigating agencies, to arrest an accused and seek his custody for

interrogation. Wherever their innocence is established in the

investigation, it is the duty of the investigating authorities to exonerate the

person against whom an FIR was registered. CBI cannot take on the

investigation of various scams of which the Hon'ble Chief Minister's

office is allegedly the epicenter unless this Court, in exercise of its

jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution Commands so. No FIR

is going to be registered against Shri Shivshankaran, unless this Court W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 14 issues a writ in the nature of mandamus commanding the police to

register an FIR. It is because of the realities of life, which is in conflict

with the requirement of law. Police under the penal laws are duty bound

to register an FIR where commission of a cognizable offence is brought to

its notice. 12. On the above pleadings, petitioner has raised the following

grounds: Collection of evidence and prosecuting the offenders are in the
 exclusive province of the police. Unlike a civil case, in a petition as
 the instant one, petitioner cannot in law be expected to produce
 evidence in support of his case. Interest of justice requires the court
 to call for all the records and evidence from the Governmental
 authorities and an interim application is that effect is made infra. (d) Sanction as contemplated in the Code of Criminal
 Procedure / Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 cannot be an
 impediment for setting the criminal law in motion. The reason is
 simple. Police are duty bound under Section 154 of the Cr.P.C to W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 16 register an FIR upon receipt of information concerning commission
 of a cognizable offence. It enjoys no discretion in that regard.
 However, the police being sovereign in its domain as much as the
 Judiciary is in its exclusive domain, has the freedom to decide the
 manner and extent to which an enquiry is to be conducted so long as
 they act bona fide and in the instant case, the police is duty bound to
 register an FIR and to investigate the various scams involving Shri
 Shivshankaran, nay, even Shri Pinarayi Vijayan. However, it is
 unrealistic to expect the police to conduct a meaningful, fair and
 impartial investigation because those involved are allegedly very
 close to the Hon'ble Chief Minister and the IT Secretary to the
 Government of Kerala. Therefore, the Petitioners are left with no
 other option but to seek a mandamus at the hands of this Court,
 commanding the Police to discharge their duty. To repeat, no
 sanction is required to register an FIR. No sanction for prosecution
 is also required, for recourse to corrupt practice does not amount to
 the discharge of one's official duty. Sanction is required where a
 public servant in the lawful discharge of duty is alleged to have
 committed an offence, to protect him from vexatious prosecution. (e) Petitioner has finally contended that investigation by the CBI
 involves intricate Centre-State relationship which is politically too
 sensitive. Many serious crimes which have inter-state ramifications
 have remained, un-investigated because of the intricacies involved in
 the investigation. The CBI is established under the Delhi Special
 Police Act and is under the administrative control of the Central W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 17 Government. The CBI cannot take up investigation of corruption
 allegedly involving the Chief Minister of a state and senior bureaucrats
 unless the State Government requests the Central Government to do
 so, which is too unrealistic in today's political environment. Therefore,
 the only option to secure a CBI investigation to bring the culprits to
 book is to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India. 13. At the outset, Mr. Mathews J. Nedumpara, learned counsel for

the petitioner, referred to the definition of "public servant" in the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and submitted that the Hon'ble Chief

Minister is a public servant. 14. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that the

Hon'ble Chief Minister and the former Principal Secretary to the Hon'ble

Chief Minister of Kerala, Department of Information Technology,

Government of Kerala (respondent No.2) have committed an offence

under Section 13(d) of the said Act. Both of them have committed

offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 as well as the Indian Penal Code , 1860. Ms. Swapna Suresh, respondent No.5, has been

arrested and the customs department has registered an FIR for the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 18 offences punishable under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 . 15. Learned counsel for the petitioner further contended that the Code of Criminal Procedure is the only law which provides for

registration of FIR and investigation, and his submission is to the

fundamental aspect of setting the criminal law in motion i.e. by

registration of FIR and not for monitoring, as the police has got a

sovereign duty, so also the Court to ensure registration of an FIR. 16. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that Hon'ble

Chief Minister of the State is not above law. In the Sprinklr scam, his

family members have contacts with the offenders. What is required under

law is only information to the police and once it is furnished, police has to

discharge their sovereign functions. However, police has not registered

any case, because the Hon'ble Chief Minister is involved. 17. Learned counsel for the petitioner referred to an incident

involving an actress mentioning the name of Ms. Swapna, in abduction.

He also raised a question that it is for the learned Advocate General

appearing for the State, to answer as to why FIR has not been registered W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 19 in spite of the complaint lodged by the petitioner way back in April, 2020. 18. Relying on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Lalitha Kumari v. Government of Uttar Pradesh reported in (2014) 2

SCC 1, learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that registration of

FIR is mandated under Sections 154 , 155 , 156 and 157 of the Cr.P.C. He

further contended that despite submission of a complaint, not even a

preliminary enquiry is conducted. 19. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that the

situation today is that the former Principal Secretary to the Hon'ble Chief

Minister of Kerala, Department of Information Technology, Government

of Kerala (respondent No.2), is summoned and interrogated for nine

hours, in the matter of involvement of smuggling. He further submitted

that the 2nd respondent has direct access and facilitated smuggling.

According to him, involvement of the Hon'ble Chief Minister is naked

and his family members are involved in Sprinklr scam. When the Hon'ble

Chief Minister is the supreme head of the State, police is unable to act

independently and, therefore, petitioner is entitled to seek for registration W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 20 of FIR, by the official respondents, and to proceed with the investigation. 20. Referring to the schedule under the National Investigation

Agency Act, 2008 , learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

agency is empowered to exercise its jurisdiction of investigation into the

violations, commissions of offences, insofar as the enumerated

enactments are concerned and not otherwise. Referring to sub-section (4)

of Section 6 of the Act, he submitted that the said provision does not take

away the obligation of the State machinery, to register an FIR for the acts

involving outside the jurisdiction of the National Investigation Agency.

He also submitted that registration of an FIR under the Customs Act , can

only be for recovery of amounts involved and that would not preclude the

petitioner from seeking registration of FIR, in respect of offences under

the Prevention of Corruption Act or India Penal Code, as the case may be.

He further submitted that as a citizen, he has to discharge his duty under Section 39 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, to furnish

information to the police and consequently, demand the duty to be

discharged by the police, registering FIR. 21. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that the

petitioner has filed an interlocutory application, enclosing a copy of the

complaint dated 9.7.2020 submitted to the Director General of Police,

Thiruvananthapuram, and other respondents, for registration of an FIR in

respect of gold smuggling scam, Sprinklr, BevQ App., e-Mobility

Consultancy scams, in which the Hon'ble Chief Minister, respondent No.2

and others are alleged to have committed offences under the Prevention of

Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code . 22. Responding to the above submissions and inviting our attention

to the DO letters dated 8.7.2020 sent to the Hon'ble Prime Minister, as

well as to the Finance Minister, Government of India, respectively, Mr. C.

P. Sudhakara Prasad, learned Advocate General, submitted that no sooner

an attempt to smuggle huge quantity of gold was brought to the notice of

the Government, the Hon'ble Chief Minister has immediately sent a letter

dated 8.7.2020 stating that the said allegation has serious implications

undermining the economy of a nation and, therefore, requested a thorough

investigation in more than one angle. The Hon'ble Chief Minister has also W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 22 requested that an effective and coordinated investigation into the above

said incident by all the Central Agencies concerned is the need of the

hour. The Hon'ble Chief Minister has also stated that the scope of the

probe should cover all aspects from the source to the end utilization

and every link of this crime should be unravelled so that such incidents do

not recur. 23. Learned Advocate General further submitted that the State has

assured to provide all necessary assistance and support to the agencies

involved in the investigation. Thus, he had sought for immediate

intervention for an effective and coordinated investigation to the above

said incident. 24. Learned Advocate General further submitted that thereafter, the

Central Government has issued an order directing the National

Investigation Agency to investigate and that consequently, an FIR has been

registered and investigation is being conducted. Referring to Section 8 of the

NIA Act, 2008, learned Advocate General submitted that the National

Investigation Agency, while investigating any Scheduled Offence, may W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 23 also investigate any other offence, which the accused is alleged to have

committed, if the offence is connected with the Scheduled Offence. 25. Referring to the averments in paragraph (3) of the Statement of

facts, learned Advocate General submitted that except to state that

Sprinklr scam was succeeded by two other scams, viz., BevQ App and e-

Mobility Consultancy scams, no details have been given in the statement

of facts about the specific instances of involvement of, either the Hon'ble

Chief Minister or others. According to the learned Advocate General,

the averments are bereft of any materials and do not fall within the

definition of corruption and on these bald averments, even an FIR cannot

be registered. 26. Referring to the averments in paragraph (13) of the Statement

of facts, learned Advocate General submitted that the petitioner has solely

relied on the allegations made by the Leader of the Opposition,

respondent No.15, in the print and electronic media, and sought for

registration of FIR. He further submitted that no document supporting the

contention that the Leader of the Opposition, respondent No.15, has made W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 24 a statement in the electronic media, has been filed along with the

statement of facts submitted by the petitioner. 27. Referring to paragraph (19) of the Statement of facts, learned

Advocate General submitted that it is the candid admission of the

petitioner that he has no evidence in support of his petition, except relying

on the words of the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly and

other leaders of the opposition parties. It is also his contention that even

the petitioner is not very sure about the statement made by the Opposition

Leader and on that basis, sought for registration of FIR. 28. Taking us through the other paragraphs of the Statement of

facts, Mr. C.P.Sudhakara Prasad, learned Advocate General, submitted

that the allegations are only relating to smuggling of gold and that NIA

has already started investigating the crime. Insofar as other allegations

are concerned, there is absolutely no material/document/evidence with the

petitioner, even to prima facie substantiate the same. 29. Referring to sub-section (6) of Section 6 of the NIA Act, 2008,

learned Advocate General submitted that if any direction has been given W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 25 under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5), the State Government and any

police officer of the State Government investigating the offence, shall not

proceed with the investigation and shall forthwith transmit the relevant

documents and records to the Agency. 30. Referring to prayer No. l sought for by the petitioner, learned

Advocate General submitted that the Central Government have already

ordered the National Investigation Agency, respondent No.10, to conduct

investigation and nothing survives insofar as the said prayer is concerned. 31. In respect of the other prayers sought for by the petitioner,

directing registration of FIR, learned Advocate General reiterated that the

petitioner has just mentioned the names of the alleged scams and there is

absolutely no material or evidence alleging involvement of the Hon'ble

Chief Minister or others mentioned in the statement of facts. 32. Learned Advocate General further submitted that though this

Court observed that the writ petition instituted in the form of a person

aggrieved is not correct, and directed that an affidavit satisfying

requirements of the Rules of the High Court of Kerala, 1971 to be made, W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 26 except filing an affidavit under Rule 146A of the said Rules, petitioner

has not changed the averments in the statement of facts. In this context,

he referred to paragraph (2) of the Affidavit filed under Rule 146A of the

Rules, 1971, wherein the petitioner has contended that averments in

paragraphs (1) to (21) are based on his knowledge and legal contentions

raised are upon the advice of his counsel. He also took us through the

averments contained in paragraphs 8, 10 etc., wherein contentions that the

writ petition is instituted, as a person aggrieved, still continued. 33. According to the learned Advocate General, except mentioning

the name of the scams, no factual details are furnished by the petitioner.

Allegations are vague and general, solely based on the statement of the

Opposition Leader. Placing reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex

Court in Laxmibai Kshetriya v. Chand Behari Kapoor and Ors. reported in (1998) 7 SCC 469, learned Advocate General submitted that

writ petition should not be entertained without proper pleadings and

substantive material on record. 34. Learned Advocate General further submitted that for a writ of W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 27 mandamus to be entertained, it is fundamental that there must be a right, a

demand, and consequently, failure of duty, by the authorities. According

to him, the foundation of the petitioner's case is only the statement of the

Opposition Leader, respondent No.15. He further submitted that what is

handed over to this Court is not a complaint lodged by the petitioner, but

it is only a legal notice issued by the petitioner's counsel to some of the

respondents, to register an FIR. Legal notice cannot be treated as a

complaint and, therefore, there is no demand and refusal on the part of the

authorities in registering an FIR. 35. Relying on the decision of this Court in Rajasthan State

Industrial Development and Investment Corporation and Another v.

Diamond and Gem Development Corporation Ltd. and Another [2013

KHC 4116], learned Advocate General submitted that there must be a

right under any Statute, a demand and refusal warranting exercise under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. It is further submitted that the

writ court must take every effort to ensure from the averments as to

whether there exists proper pleadings. 36. Referring to prayer No.1 in the writ petition, learned Advocate

General submitted that petitioner has sought for a mandamus directing the

State to handover investigation of gold smuggling scam, Sprinklr, BevQ

app and e-mobility consultancy scams, in which the Hon'ble Chief

Minister and the 2nd respondent are allegedly involved, to the CBI/NIA,

and to conduct a fair and impartial investigation, and the same cannot be

ordered in a writ petition. 37. On the parameters required to be satisfied for a CBI

investigation, the Advocate General relied on the decision in Kunga

Nima Lepcha and Ors. v. State of Sikkim and Ors. reported in (2010)

4 SCC 513. That apart, reliance has been made to the decision of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in Common Cause (A Registered Society) and

Ors. v. Union of India (UOI) and Ors. [(2017) 11 SCC 731] to

substantiate his contention that the PIL, on the averments set out in the

statement of facts, is liable to be dismissed. 38. Inviting our attention to the averments in paragraph (11) of the

Statement of facts, learned Advocate General further contended that the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 29 allegation is only with respect to smuggling and appointment of 5 th

respondent - Ms. Swapna Suresh, and there are no materials, relevant or

cogent, alleging involvement of the Hon'ble Chief Minister, on the above. 39. Learned Advocate General further submitted that even taking it

for granted that a complaint has been filed before the police, but not

registered, writ of mandamus is not the appropriate remedy and the issue,

as to whether the provisions under the Cr.P.C . have to be followed or not,

is answered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Sakiri Vasu v. State of U.P.

and Ors. [(2008) 2 SCC 409], wherein it is held that writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is not the appropriate remedy. 40. Placing reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in

the State of West Bengal and Ors. v. The Committee for Protection of

Democratic Rights, West Bengal and Ors. [(2010) 3 SCC 571], learned

the Advocate General submitted that necessary and proper facts are not

pleaded and the writ petition is politically motivated, based on the alleged

statement of the Opposition Leader. On the above contentions, he

submitted that the writ petition does not merit any consideration. W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 30 41. By way of reply, Mr. Mathews J. Nedumpara, learned counsel

for the petitioner, submitted that when the Hon'ble Chief Minister himself

has written letter dated 8.7.2020 to the Hon'ble Prime Minister of India

and the Hon'ble Minister of Finance, Government of India, that the

allegations have serious implications and have to be investigated in more

than one angle, that statement itself would amount to an admission that

there is an offence committed. If the allegations are so serious, involving

an effective and coordinated investigation, by all the Central Agencies

concerned, the State Government ought to have registered an FIR and that

would have been a bona fide action. Instead, Government has refused to

do so. Letter dated 8.7.2020 addressed to the above, is only a ruse to the

failure in discharging duty. Till date, no FIR has been registered. 42. On the submission of the learned Advocate General that the

petitioner in the statement of facts has stated that he cannot believe even

the version of the Opposition Leader, in his reply, Mr. Mathews J.

Nedumpara, learned counsel for the petitioner, submitted that it is not the

case of the petitioner that he did not believe the statement of the Leader of W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 31 the Opposition, but the petitioner only made a statement that if the

statement of the Opposition Leader is true, then it requires a thorough

investigation by registering an FIR. In this context, he referred to

paragraph (19) of the Statement of facts. 43. It is also his submission that in a matter of the above magnitude

and nature, petitioner cannot be expected to produce evidence, which is in

the custody of the police and other departments, and that is why the

petitioner has sought for an interim prayer directing Inspector General of

Police/the Director, Vigilance and Anti Corruption Cell, to take custody

and/or produce before this Court as and when required, the entire papers,

proceedings, correspondence and communications, all electronic data,

including records of video and telephonic calls concerning the aforesaid

scams, and in particular, the gold smuggling scam, involving respondent

Nos.2 and 5. 44. According to the learned counsel for the petitioner, if it is a

civil case, it is his bounden duty to produce the material, and that the

burden casts on him. Whereas, in the case on hand, all the documents are W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 32 in the exclusive domain of the Government and it is preposterous on the

part of the learned Advocate General, to require the petitioner to produce

the material documents, thereby converting the instant writ petition as a

civil case. According to him, such an exercise is not required when the

petitioner has sought action on the principles of 'qui tam action'- qui tam

pro domino rege quam pro se ipso in hac parte sequitur. 45. On the aspect of reference to good faith, learned counsel for the

petitioner submitted that the instant writ petition cannot be said to be an

abuse and, therefore, the decisions relied on by the learned Advocate

General are not applicable. 46. Once again, referring to paragraph ( 123) of the Lalitha

Kumari 's case (cited supra), learned counsel for the petitioner submitted

that it is simple and the only premise of the petitioner is, as to why FIR

has not been registered, despite submission of complaint on 28.03.2020,

and why a preliminary enquiry has not been conducted. 47. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that, if

reference is made to Section 8 of the NIA Act, 2008, to contend that all W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 33 other offences can be investigated, State could have made it specifically

in writing that all the scams and corruption charges can also be included

in the investigation by NIA, which they have not done. He reiterated that

NIA can investigate only with reference to the offences mentioned in the

enactments to the schedule. 48. According to the learned counsel, scams involve investigation

by multiple agencies. When the Hon'ble Chief Minister himself has

written a letter to the Hon'ble Prime Minister, as well as the Hon'ble

Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, considering the nature and

magnitude of the offences involved, remedy under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India is maintainable, since the police have refused to

register FIR. According to the learned counsel, each case has to be

considered and decided on its own merits. At this stage, he submitted that

the prayer of the petitioner is only with regard to registration of an FIR. 49. On the aspect that a specific complaint has not been filed by the

petitioner and that lawyer's notice dated 9.7.2017 cannot be treated as a

complaint, referring to Order I Rule 8(5) of the Code of Civil Procedure , W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 34 learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that he is an agent of the

petitioner and, therefore, competent to lodge a complaint. Learned

counsel further submitted that he can sue or defend a litigant. 50. Replying to the submission of the learned Advocate General

that the alleged defects pointed out in the averments continued even after

the observation of this Court that the instant writ petition ought to have

been instituted as a public interest writ petition, learned counsel for the

petitioner submitted that the objections are technical in nature and should

not be taken as a ground to reject the prayers sought for by the petitioner.

If there is any defect, within a given time, the petitioner can even

correct the same. On above said contentions, petitioner sought for

registration of FIR. 51. Mr. Arjun Ambalapatta, learned Senior Public Prosecutor for

National Investigation Agency (respondent No.10), submitted that acting

on a letter dated 8.7.2020, the Central Government has issued an order

directing investigation by the National Investigation Agency, and a case

in Crime No. R.C.2/2020 has been registered under Sections 16 , 17 and W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 35 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 , and the

investigation is in the preliminary stage. 52. Mr. Jaishankar V. Nair, learned counsel for the Customs/

Central Government, submitted that as regards the offences under the

provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 , investigation is taken up by the

Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Cochin, in O.R. No.7 of 2020.

He further submitted that two agencies are now investigating the matters

relating to the alleged commission of offences under the Customs Act,

1962 and NIA Act, 2008 . 53. On the pleadings, submissions, and the decisions relied on by

the learned counsel for the respective parties, we deem it fit to address the

following points: 54. From the prayers extracted above, it could be deduced that at

one stage, in respect of smuggling of gold, Sprinklr, BevQ App and e-

Mobility Consultancy scams, in prayer (3), the petitioner has sought for a

direction to respondents 12, 13 and 16, viz., the CBI, NIA and the Crime

Branch, to register an FIR, and in respect of very same allegations, the

petitioner has sought for a direction against the respondents 12 and 13 -

Central Agencies, and also included the Additional Director General of

Police, Crime Branch, Trivandrum, respondent No.16, to handover

investigation of Sprinklr, BevQ App and e-Mobility Consultancy scams

to the CBI/NIA, and conduct an effective, meaningful, independent and

impartial enquiry into the smuggling of gold to India, by abusing the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 37 diplomatic channel. However, no investigation has been ordered by the

police and, therefore, the question of handing over investigation to the

above said agencies does not arise. 55. Prayer No.2 is to direct the Director General of Police,

Trivandrum (respondent No.12), the Director, Vigilance and Anticorruption

Bureau, Trivandrum, (respondent No.13), and the Additional Director

General of Police, Crime Branch, Trivandrum (respondent No.16), to

register an FIR based on the allegation that Sri. M. Shivashankaran,

Senior Officer of the Indian Administrative Service, Sri. Pinarayi

Vijayan, Hon'ble Chief Minister of Kerala, and/or those who are close to

them and involved in smuggling of gold to India using the diplomatic

channel and the Sprinkler, BevQ App and e-Mobility Consultancy scams,

and to conduct an effective, meaningful, independent and impartial

enquiry, unmindful of the fact that those who could be involved in the

crimes are in the helm of affairs of the State, and/or to further direct the

State and Central Governments to facilitate such an investigation, nay,

direct the State Government to handover the investigation to the CBI. W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 38 56. Letters dated 8.7.2020 addressed to the Hon'ble Prime Minister

and Hon'ble Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, New Delhi, are

extracted hereunder: 57. Letter dated 9th July, 2020, issued by the Under Secretary to the

Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, to the Director General

NOIA, New Delhi, Chief Secretary, Government of Kerala and to the

DGP, Kerala is extracted hereunder: 58. National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 is an act to constitute

an investigation agency at the national level to investigate and prosecute

offences affecting the sovereignty, security and integrity of India, security

of State, friendly relations with foreign States and offences under Acts

enacted to implement international treaties, agreements, conventions and

resolutions of the United Nations, its agencies and other international

organisations, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Chapter III of the Act deals with investigation by the National

Investigation Agency and Section 6 of the Act reads thus: 59. Section 8 of the Act deals with the power to investigate

offences and the same reads thus: 60. As per Section 2(1)(g) - Scheduled offence in the said Act,

unless the context otherwise requires, means an offence specified in the

schedule. The Schedule to Section 2(1)(g) of the Act reads thus: (b) Sections 489-A to 489-E (both inclusive) of the Indian Penal
 Code (45 of 1860)." 61. Let us consider the allegations made against the Hon'ble Chief

Minister, individually and jointly with Mr. M. Shivshankaran, IAS,

Secretary to the Government of Kerala, Department of Information

Technology, Trivandrum. In paragraph (2), the petitioner has stated that

in the month of April, 2020, he had instituted a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, since the police failed to register an FIR

against respondents 1 & 2, concerning the Sprinklr scam, in spite of his

written complaint asserting that the respondents have abused their official

position and power, entailing in unjust enrichment, which clearly

constituted an offence punishable under the various provisions of

Prevention of Corruption Act, Indian Penal Code, and the I.T. Act. 62. In paragraph (4), the petitioner has stated that Sprinklr scam

was succeeded by two other scams viz., BevQ App. and E-mobility

consultancy scams. If the allegations of the 16 th respondent, Leader of the

Opposition, are true and to be believed, they constitute corruption and

crime of a scale unheard in the history of Kerala by any political

leader/bureaucrats. 63. In paragraph (6), it is further alleged that Ms. Swapna Suresh

was the girl Friday of the 2nd respondent, Principal Secretary to the

Hon'ble Chief Minister, and she was involved in the conduct of major

events like the programme arranged to honour the Sheikh of Sharjah on

24th September, 2017. It is further alleged that she is a friend of Speaker

P.Sreeramakrishnan and it was the Speaker, who inaugurated the office of

a company with which Swapna Suresh is associated. 64. It is further alleged that the Hon'ble Chief Minister knows her

very well, that too of her background, for the Hon'ble Chief Minister is

provided with intelligence inputs of those working in his office and those

who closely interact with him. 65. It is further alleged that the Hon'ble Chief Minister, though may

not be directly involved nitty-gritties of transactions involving companies

of questionable credentials like Sprinklr, PwC, etc., he certainly is fully

aware of the business worth hundreds of crores of rupees which was

building and further promoted by abusing his official position as the

Hon'ble Chief Minister of Kerala. 66. In paragraph (7), the petitioner has stated that the truth of the

allegations regarding corruption, abuse of office, smuggling and other

illegal activities, involving international mafia, of which the Hon'ble

Chief Minister's office is alleged to be nerve center, is required to be

investigated effectively and all those, who are involved with the offence,

are liable to be brought to book. 67. In the grounds, the petitioner has stated that the Sprinklr, BevQ

App and e-Mobility Consultancy scams, in which the 2 nd respondent,

Sri. M. Shivashankaran, IAS is allegedly involved, and it is alleged that

the 1st respondent, Hon'ble Chief Minister of Kerala, is fully aware that, it

amounts to offences punishable under Section 13 of the Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 and Sections 405, 415, 420 and 378 of the Indian

Penal Code, Customs Act, and even COFEPOSA Act , for, the said

transfer was in furtherance of a design to unjustly enrich, nay, to be

gratified at the cost of revenue of the State. These scams pose a threat

even to national security and require immediate registration of an FIR in

respect of these scams, and a meaning and effective investigation by the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 48 CBI, NIA, Revenue and Customs authorities, in full cooperation with the

State Police. 68. Let us consider the individual allegations made against the 2 nd

respondent Mr. M. Shivshankaran, IAS. 69. Petitioner in paragraph (8) has stated that he is acting on his

own, in the enforcement of his rights, seeking a writ in the nature of

mandamus to compel the police and other law enforcing authorities, to

discharge their duties, namely, investigation into various criminal

offences allegedly committed by a gang of people, of which the 2 nd

respondent is alleged to be a kingpin, and the gold smuggling scam is last

in the long chain of corrupt deeds. 70. In paragraph (8), the petitioner has stated that the 2 nd

respondent was removed from the office of the Secretary to the Hon'ble

Chief Minister's office and the Principal Secretary to the IT Department,

in the light of the allegation that the 5 th respondent, his girl Friday, whom

he had allegedly appointed, exercising his discretionary powers as the

Operational Manager at KSITIL, was involved in smuggling of 30 kgs of W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 49 gold through the diplomatic channel. 71. Petitioner has further stated that the scams in which the Hon'ble

Chief Minister and his most trusted aid Shri M.Shivashankaran, a senior

IAS officer, are allegedly involved, are offences of grave nature, and

involve international smuggling mafia, underworld. 72. Insofar as prayer No.1 is concerned, the Hon'ble Chief Minister,

Government of Kerala has already written a letter dated 8.7.2020 to the

Hon'ble Prime Minister of India and the Hon'ble Minister of Finance and

Corporate Affairs, requesting for an effective and coordinated

investigation into the alleged incident. Accordingly, the Central

Government, in exercise of their powers under Sections 6 and 8 of the

National Investigation Agency Act, 2008, have passed an order dated

9.7.2020 directing the National Investigation Agency to take up

investigation. A case in Crime No. R.C.2/2020 has been registered under Sections 16 , 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967,

and the investigation is under progress. As regards the violations of

provisions of the Customs Act , investigation has been taken up by the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 50 Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Cochin, in O.R. No.7 of 2020.

Even as per the version of learned counsel for the petitioner, Mr.

Shivshankaran, IAS, Secretary to the Government, Department of

Information Technology, has been summoned and interrogated. In both

cases, two central agencies have already taken up investigation. 73. The other allegations pertain to Sprinklr, BevQ App, and e-

Mobility Consultancy scams, where the family of the Hon'ble Chief

Minister is alleged to have been involved. For the above said allegations,

petitioner has solely relied on the statement of the Leader of the

Opposition, respondent No.15, which is stated to have been made in the

State Assembly, print and electronic media. As rightly pointed out by the

learned Advocate General, no document has been produced by the

petitioner along with the writ petition to substantiate the same. Even

taking it for granted that such a statement is made, the question to be

considered is whether that alone is sufficient to direct registration of FIR

by the police? 74. It is the submission of the petitioner that in a matter of this W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 51 nature and magnitude, it is not possible for him to produce evidence, and

that is why he has sought for an direction to the Inspector General of

Police and/or the Director, Vigilance and Anti Corruption Cell, to take

custody and/or produce before this Court as and when required, the entire

papers, proceedings, correspondence and communications, all electronic

data, including records of video and telephonic calls concerning the

aforesaid scams, and in particular, the gold smuggling scam, involving

respondent Nos.2 and 5. 75. In Lalitha Kumari (cited supra), relied on by the learned

counsel for the petitioner, the Hon'ble Supreme Court at paragraphs 120

& 121 held thus: The aforesaid are only illustrations and not exhaustive of all
 conditions which may warrant preliminary inquiry. (vii) While ensuring and protecting the rights of the accused and
 the complainant, a preliminary inquiry should be made time
 bound and in any case it should not exceed fifteen days
 generally and in exceptional cases, by giving adequate
 reasons, six weeks time is provided. The fact of such delay
 and the causes of it must be reflected in the General
 Diary entry. (viii) Since the General Diary/Station Diary/Daily Diary is the
 record of all information received in a police station, we
 direct that all information relating to cognizable offences,
 whether resulting in registration of FIR or leading to an
 inquiry, must be mandatorily and meticulously reflected in
 the said Diary and the decision to conduct a preliminary
 inquiry must also be reflected, as mentioned above. 121. With the above directions, we dispose of the
 reference made to us. List all the matters before the appropriate
 Bench for disposal on merits." 76. In Aleque Padamsee and Others v. Union of India and

Others [(2007) 6 SCC 171], petitions therein were filed under Article 32 W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 54 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the 'Constitution'). The

petitioners therein have approached the Court aggrieved by the inaction

on the part of the official respondents, in not acting on the report lodged

by two persons namely, Sumesh Ramji Jadhav and Suresh Murlidhar

Bosle. Their basic grievance is that though commission of offences

punishable under the Indian Penal Code , 1860 (in short the ' IPC ') was

disclosed, the police officials did not register the FIR and, therefore,

directions should be given to register the cases and wherever necessary

accord sanction in terms of Section 196 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973 (in short the 'Code'). After considering the provisions of

the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, and a catena of decisions, the

Hon'ble Supreme court held thus: 77. In Sakiri Vasu v. State of U.P. and Ors. [(2008) 2 SCC 409],

the Hon'ble Supreme Court considered several issues, inter alia, as to

whether power under Articles 32 and 136 of the Constitution of India

could be invoked, to order investigation by CBI, and whether High Court,

in exercise of powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and Section 482 of the Cr.P.C, can order investigation, where an alternative

remedy under Section 154(3) r/w. Section 36 or Section 156(3) or Section

200 of the Cr.P.C has not been exhausted. The Hon'ble Apex Court has

also considered when the powers under Articles 32 , 136 , and 226 of the

Constitution of India can be exercised by ordering investigation by CBI,

and the remedies open to an aggrieved person against improper W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 57 investigation; interference in the process of investigation. 78. Facts of the decision in Sakiri Vasu (cited supra), in nutshell

are that the finding of Court of Inquiry conducted by the Army that the

appellant's son was murdered and not committed suicide, and by filing a

writ petition, sought for a CBI investigation. High court rejected the

prayer. Addressing the plea, considering the provisions of the Code of

Criminal Procedure , and decisions answering the issues 1 and 2, at

paragraphs 10 to 28, the Hon'ble Apex Court held thus: 13. The same view was taken by this Court in Dilawar
 Singh v. State of Delhi [2007CriLJ4709] (vide para 17). We would
 further clarify that even if an FIR has been registered and even if
 the police has made the investigation, or is actually making the
 investigation, which the aggrieved person feels is not proper, such a
 person can approach the Magistrate under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.,
 and if the Magistrate is satisfied he can order a proper investigation
 and take other suitable steps and pass such order orders as he thinks
 necessary for ensuring a proper investigation. All these powers a
 Magistrate enjoys under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. 14. Section 156(3) states: The words `as above mentioned' obviously refer to Section
 156(1), which contemplates investigation by the officer in charge of
 the Police Station. 15. Section 156(3) provides for a check by the Magistrate
 on the police performing its duties under Chapter XII Cr.P.C . In
 cases where the Magistrate finds that the police has not done its
 duty of investigating the case at all, or has not done it satisfactorily,
 he can issue a direction to the police to do the investigation
 properly, and can monitor the same. 16. The power of the Magistrate to order further
 investigation under Section 156(3) is an independent power, and
 does not affect the power of the investigating officer to further
 investigate the case even after submission of his report vide Section
 173(8). Hence the Magistrate can order re-opening of the
 investigation even after the police submits the final report, vide State of Bihar v. A.C. Saldanna [1980CriLJ98]. 17. In our opinion Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. is wide enough to
 include all such powers in a Magistrate which are necessary for
 ensuring a proper investigation, and it includes the power to order
 registration of an F.I.R. and of ordering a proper investigation if the
 Magistrate is satisfied that a proper investigation has not been done,
 or is not being done by the police. Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., though
 briefly worded, in our opinion, is very wide and it will include all
 such incidental powers as are necessary for ensuring a proper
 investigation. 18. It is well-settled that when a power is given to an
 authority to do something it includes such incidental or implied
 powers which would ensure the proper doing of that thing. In other
 words, when any power is expressly granted by the statute, there is
 impliedly included in the grant, even without special mention, every
 power and every control the denial of which would render the grant
 itself ineffective. Thus where an Act confers jurisdiction it W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 61 impliedly also grants the power of doing all such acts or employ
 such means as are essentially necessary to its execution. 19. The reason for the rule (doctrine of implied power) is
 quite apparent. Many matters of minor details are omitted from
 legislation. As Crawford observes in his 'Statutory Construction' (3 rd
 edn. Page 267): 20. In ascertaining a necessary implication, the Court
 simply determines the legislative will and makes it effective. What
 is necessarily implied is as much part of the statute as if it were
 specifically written therein. 21. An express grant of statutory powers carries with it by
 necessary implication the authority to use all reasonable means to
 make such grant effective. Thus in ITO, Cannanore v. M.K.
 Mohammad Kunhi (AIR 1969 SC 430), this Court held that the
 income tax appellate tribunal has implied powers to grant stay,
 although no such power has been expressly granted to it by the Income Tax Act . 22. Similar examples where this Court has affirmed the
 doctrine of implied powers are Union of India v. Paras Laminates [1990] 186 ITR 722 (SC), Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 62 General Finance and Investment Company Ltd. [1996] 1 SCR 58,
 Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman Gujarat Maritime
 Board v. Haji Daud Haji Harun Abu ( 1996) 11 SCC 23, J.K.
 Synthetics Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise 1996 ( 86) ELT
 472(SC), State of Karnataka v. Vishwabharati House Building Co- op Society [2003] 1 SCR 397 etc. 23. In Savitri v. Govind Singh Rawat (1986 CriLJ 41), this
 Court held that the power conferred on the Magistrate under Section
 125 Cr.P.C. to grant maintenance to the wife implies the power to
 grant interim maintenance during the pendency of the proceeding,
 otherwise she may starve during this period. 24. In view of the abovementioned legal position, we are of
 the view that although Section 156(3) is very briefly worded, there
 is an implied power in the Magistrate under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.
 to order registration of a criminal offence and/or to direct the officer
 in charge of the concerned police station to hold a proper
 investigation and take all such necessary steps that may be
 necessary for ensuring a proper investigation including monitoring
 the same. Even though these powers have not been expressly
 mentioned in Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., we are of the opinion that
 they are implied in the above provision. 25. We have elaborated on the above matter because we
 often find that when someone has a grievance that his FIR has not
 been registered at the police station and/or a proper investigation is W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 63 not being done by the police, he rushes to the High Court to file a
 writ petition or a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. We are of the
 opinion that the High Court should not encourage this practice and
 should ordinarily refuse to interfere in such matters, and relegate
 the petitioner to his alternating remedy, firstly under Section 154(3)
 and Section 36 Cr.P.C. before the concerned police officers, and if
 that is of no avail, by approaching the concerned Magistrate under
 Section 156(3). 26. If a person has a grievance that his FIR has not been
 registered by the police station his first remedy is to approach the
 Superintendent of Police under Section 154(3) Cr.P.C. or other
 police officer referred to in Section 36 Cr.P.C. If despite
 approaching the Superintendent of Police or the officer referred to
 in Section 36 his grievance still persists, then he can approach a
 Magistrate under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. instead of rushing to the
 High Court by way of a writ petition or a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. Moreover he has a further remedy of filing a criminal
 complaint under Section 200 Cr.P.C. Why then should writ
 petitions or Section 482 petitions be entertained when there are so
 many alternative remedies? 27. As we have already observed above, the Magistrate has
 very wide powers to direct registration of an FIR and to ensure a
 proper investigation, and for this purpose he can monitor the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 64 investigation to ensure that the investigation is done properly
 (though he cannot investigate himself). The High Court should
 discourage the practice of filing a writ petition or petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. simply because a person has a grievance that
 his FIR has not been registered by the police, or after being
 registered, proper investigation has not been done by the police. For
 this grievance, the remedy lies under Sections 36 and 154(3) before
 the concerned police officers, and if that is of no avail, under
 Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. before the Magistrate or by filing a criminal
 complaint under Section 200 Cr.P.C. and not by filing a writ
 petition or a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. 28. It is true that alternative remedy is not an absolute bar to
 a writ petition, but it is equally well settled that if there is an
 alternative remedy the High Court should not ordinarily interfere." 79. As to whether, proper investigation is done and on monitoring,

the Hon'ble Apex Court at paragraphs 29 and 30 in Sakiri Vasu (cited

supra), ordered thus: 80. On the aspect as to when the Supreme court and High Court

under Articles 136 or 226 of the Constitution can order investigation by W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 66 CBI, the Hon'ble Apex Court at paragraphs 31 and 33 in Sakiri Vasu

(cited supra), ordered thus: 81. When there is a law and procedure envisaged under the Code

of Criminal Procedure , the question whether the registration of a criminal W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 67 case under Section 154(1) of the Cr.P.C. ipso facto warrants setting in

motion of an investigation in Chapter XII Cr.P.C . is provided by Sections

157(1) proviso, and 157(2) of the Cr.P.C . Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. enjoins

a discretionary power on a Magistrate under Section 190 of the Cr.P.C.,

to order investigation by a Police Officer. At this juncture, we deem it fit

to consider what Sections 156(3), 157(1) proviso, and 157(2) of the Cr.P.C state. 157. Procedure for investigation preliminary inquiry.
 (1) If, from information received or otherwise, an officer in
 charge of a police station has reason to suspect the
 commission of an offence which he is empowered under
 section 156 to investigate, he shall forthwith send a report of
 the same to a Magistrate empowered to take cognizance of
 such offence upon a police report and shall proceed in person,
 or shall depute one of his subordinate officers not being W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 68 below such rank as the State Government may, by general or
 special order, prescribe in this behalf, to proceed, to the spot,
 to investigate the facts and circumstances of the case, and, if
 necessary, to take measures for the discovery and arrest of the
 offender; Provided that- (a) when information as to the commission of any such
 offence is given against any person by name and the
 case is not of a serious nature, the officer in charge of a
 police station need not proceed in person or depute a
 subordinate officer to make an investigation on the spot; (b) if it appears to the officer in charge of a police
 station that there is no sufficient ground for entering on
 an investigation, he shall not investigate the case.

 (2) In each of the cases mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) of
 the proviso to sub- section (1), the officer in charge of the
 police station shall state in his report his reasons for not fully
 complying with the requirements of that sub- section, and, in
 the case mentioned in clause (b) of the said proviso, the
 officer shall also forthwith notify to the informant, if any, in
 such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government,
 the fact that he will not investigate the case or cause it to be
 investigated." 82. In this context, this Court deems it fit to consider the decision

of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Anandwardhan and Another v. W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 69 Pandurang and others, reported in (2005) 11 SCC 195, wherein it is

held as follows: 83. In Divine Retreat Centre v. State of Kerala and others ,

reported in AIR 2008 SC 1614, no information was given to the police by

any informant, alleging commission of any cognizable offence by the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 70 appellant and the persons associated with the appellant institution. It is a

peculiar case of its own kind where an anonymous petition was sent

directly in the name of a learned Judge of the Kerala High Court, which

was suo motu taken up as a proceeding under Section 482 of the Code.

The Hon'ble Apex Court considered several issues, including the scope

and nature of Section 482 of Cr.P.C, and, at para 42, held thus: 75, para 13). 84. When the High Court can interfere, in excise of powers under Article 226 of Constitution of India, the Hon'ble Apex Court in Divine

Retreat Centre (cited supra), at para 41, held thus: 85. It is worthwhile to consider the decision in All India Institute

of Medical Sciences Employees' Union through its President v. Union

of India (UOI) and Ors. , reported in 1996 (11) SCC 582, referred to in

Divine Retreat Centre (cited Supra), wherein a special leave petition

was filed against the order of the Delhi High Court on May 14, 1996 in

CWP No. 1946/96 directing institution proceedings against one, Dr. S.K.

Kacker, former Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences for

the alleged cognizable offence punishable under Section 409 , Indian

Penal Code. The Hon'ble Division Bench refused to issue mandamus to

the police to investigate into the allegations made against the said doctor.

The Hon'ble Supreme Court, at paragraphs 3 to 6, held thus: 86. In Kunga Nima Lepcha and Ors. v. State of Sikkim and

Ors. (cited supra), a writ petition was instituted by way of Public Interest

Litigation under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, the petitioners

therein have levelled some allegations against an incumbent, Hon'ble

Chief Minister of the State of Sikkim, who was impleaded as respondent

No. 2 therein. The crux of the allegations is that he has misused his public

office to amass assets, disproportionate to his known sources of income. W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 75 The petitioners have further alleged that respondent No.2 has

misappropriated a large volume of public money at the cost of

Government of India and Government of Sikkim. The prayers sought for

by the petitioners were as follows: 87. The Hon'ble Apex Court, after considering the above prayers, in

Kunga Nima Lepcha (cited supra), held thus: 15. Furthermore, we must emphasis the fact that the alleged
 acts can easily come within the ambit of statutory offences such as
 those of "possession of assets disproportionate to known sources
 of income" as well as "criminal misconduct" under the Prevention
 of Corruption Act, 1988 . The onus of launching an investigation
 into such matters is clearly on the investigating agencies such as
 the State Police, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 77 Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) among others. It is not
 proper for this Court to give directions for initiating such an
 investigation under its writ jurisdiction. 16. While it is true that in the past, the Supreme Court of
 India as well as the various High Courts have indeed granted
 remedies relating to investigations in criminal cases, we must
 make a careful note of the petitioners' prayer in the present case.
 In the past, writ jurisdiction has been used to monitor the progress
 of ongoing investigations or to transfer ongoing investigations
 from one investigating agency to another. Such directions have
 been given when a specific violation of fundamental rights is
 shown, which could be the consequence of apathy or partiality on
 the part of investigating agencies among other reasons. In some
 cases, judicial intervention by way of writ jurisdiction is warranted
 on account of obstructions to the investigation process such as
 material threats to witnesses, the destruction of evidence or undue
 pressure from powerful interests. In all of these circumstances, the
 writ court can only play a corrective role to ensure that the
 integrity of the investigation is not compromised. However, it is
 not viable for a writ court to order the initiation of an
 investigation. That function clearly lies in the domain of the
 executive and it is up to the investigating agencies themselves to
 decide whether the material produced before them provides a
 sufficient basis to launch an investigation. 17. It must also be borne in mind that there are provisions in
 the Code of Criminal Procedure which empower the courts of first W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 78 instance to exercise a certain degree of control over ongoing
 investigations. The scope for intervention by the trial court is
 hence controlled by statutory provisions and it is not advisable for
 the writ courts to interfere with criminal investigations in the
 absence of specific standards for the same. "18. Hence, it is our conclusion that the petitioners' prayer
 cannot be granted. This Court cannot sit in judgment over
 whether investigations should be launched against politicians
 for alleged acts of corruption. The Supreme Court of India
 functions as a constitutional court as well as the highest
 appellate court in the country. If the Supreme Court gives
 direction for prosecution, it would cause serious prejudice to
 the accused, as the direction of this Court may have far-
 reaching persuasive effect on the court which may ultimately
 try the accused. It is always open to the petitioners to
 approach the investigative agencies directly with the
 incriminating materials and it is for the investigative agencies
 to decide on the further course of action. While we can
 appreciate the general claim that the efforts to uncover the
 alleged acts of corruption may be obstructed by entrenched
 interests, in this particular case the petitioners would be well
 advised to rely on the statutory remedies. It is only on the
 exhaustion of ordinary remedies that perhaps a proceeding can
 be brought before a writ court and in any case the High Court
 of Sikkim would be a far more appropriate forum for
 examining the allegations made in the present petition." W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 79 88. In Sudhir Bhaskarrao Tambe v. Hemant Yashwant Dhage

[(2016) 6 SCC 277], by the order impugned therein, the Hon'ble Bombay

High Court, at paragraph 9 of its order, changed the Investigating Officer

and appointed a Special Investigating Officer, to investigate into the

alleged offence. Testing the correctness of the same, an appeal was filed

in the Hon'ble Apex Court, following the Sakiri Vasu 's case (cited

supra). The Hon'ble Apex Court, at paras 8 to 11, held thus: 89. Though much reliance has been placed on Lalitha Kumari's

case (cited supra), for registration of an FIR, in Fr. Sebastian

Vadakkumpadan v. Shine Varghese and Ors. (2018 (3) KLT 177), a

Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court held that Lalitha Kumari 's case

(cited supra) is not a precedent as to the procedure to be followed if, FIR

is not registered. This Court, observed thus: remedies under the Code, the complainants insisted
 that in Lalitha Kumari, a Constitution Bench has
 cleared the complainant's path of all statutory
 hurdles to approach the High Court, straight away.
 76(a). That apart, on facts, Shine's conduct leaves much
 to be desired. The record reveals that he complained in
 writing to the police on 15th January 2018; he filed the W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 84 writ petition on 16th January, the next day. In fact, the
 learned Public Prosecutor maintains that Shine
 approached the police only on 16th January, the
 complaint bearing the date of 15 th January
 notwithstanding. Without waiting even for the receipt,
 the Public Prosecutor further contends, Shine rushed to
 the Court. 76(b). Shine, however, counters the Public Prosecutor's
 assertion. He insists that he had approached the police on
 15th January and that they refused to acknowledge his
 complaint. So Shine would have us view his
 approaching the Court the next day as perfectly
 justified--not to be taken amiss. Elementary is the legal
 principle that for a writ of mandamus to be maintained,
 the suitor must establish before the Court these: (a) that
 there existed a right; (b) that it has been infringed or
 threatened to be infringed; (c) that the person aggrieved
 complained to an authority; and (d) that the authority
 concerned refused to act. 76(c). Here, Shine seemed to have rushed to the Court
 posthaste, before the ink dried on the paper, as if it were.
 So, we find it hard to believe that there was proper
 demand and refusal, the essential elements for a
 mandamus. 77. Authoritative as Lalitha Kumari is, it has not
 disturbed the proposition of law that this Court while
 exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 does
 ensure that the suitor has no other efficacious,
 alternative remedy. So the precedential value of
 Aleque Padamsee, All India Institute of Medical
 Sciences, Gangadhar, Sudhir Bhaskarrao Tambe,
 Sakiri Vasu, Kunga Nima Lepcha, just to list out a
 few, remains undisturbed and undiminished." (emphasis supplied) W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 85 90. In Sunil Gangadhar Karve v. State of Maharashtra and

others [(2014) 14 SCC 48], the Hon'ble Apex Court, at para 4, held thus: 91. In State of West Bengal and Ors. v. The Committee for

Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal and Ors. reported in

(2010) 3 SCC 571, the Hon'ble Apex Court held thus: 92. In Common Cause ( A Registered Society) and others v.

Union of India and others reported in (2017 (11) SCC 731, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, while considering the question whether Special

Investigation Team should be constituted for investigation into

incriminating material seized in raids conducted on a group of companies,

at paragraph 283, held thus: 93. In State of West Bengal and others v. Committee for

Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal and Others [(2010) 3

SCC 571], a five member Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court while W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 89 considering the question as to whether a direction can be issued under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution of India by the High Court to

investigate a cognizable offence in a State without the consent of the State

Government, at paragraph 70, held thus: 94. In Secretary, Minor Irrigation and Rural Engineering

Services, U.P. and Others v. Sahngoo Ram Arya and Another [(2002)

5 SCC 521], the Hon'ble Supreme Court, on consideration of the question

as to whether High Court can direct enquiry by CBI under Article 226 of

the Constitution, held that the High court must reach a conclusion based

on the pleadings and material on record that a prima facie case made out

against a person and merely because a party made allegations against a

person, High Court cannot direct CBI to investigate as to whether a

person committed an offence as alleged or not. Paragraph 6 is relevant to

the context and it reads thus: "6. It is seen from the above decision of this Court that
 the right to life under Article 21 includes the right of a
 person to live without being hounded by the police or
 CBI to find out whether he has committed any offence
 or is living as a law-abiding citizen. Therefore, it is
 clear that a decision to direct an inquiry by CBI against W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 91 a person can only be done if the High Court after
 considering the material on record comes to a
 conclusion that such material does disclose a prima
 facie case calling for an investigation by CBI or any
 other similar agency, and the same cannot be done as a
 matter of routine or merely because a party makes some
 such allegations. In the instant case, we see that the
 High Court without coming to a definite conclusion that
 there is a prima facie case established to direct an
 inquiry has proceeded on the basis of "ifs" and "buts"
 and thought it appropriate that the inquiry should be
 made by CBI. With respect, we think that this is not
 what is required by the law as laid down by this Court
 in the case of Common Cause." 95. As rightly contended by the learned Advocate General, the

petitioner has only mentioned about the names of the alleged scams, viz.,

Sprinklr, BevQ App. and e-Mobility Consultancy. There are no details in

the Statement of facts as to what they are. Except stating that the Hon'ble

Chief Minister is involved, abused his position, and his office is alleged

to be nerve center, there is nothing in the Statement of facts indicating,

which action or inaction of the Hon'ble Chief Minister or the others, W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 92 against whom allegations have been levelled, have indulged in corruption,

attracting the provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 as well as

the Indian Penal Code , 1860. Although the writ petition has been

directed to be instituted as a Public Interest Litigation, the averments

remain the same. 96. In Guruvayur Devaswom Managing Committee & Anr. v.

C.K.Rajan & Others reported in (2003) 7 SCC 546, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has summarised the principles with respect to filing a

Public Interest Litigation and they are reproduced: The Court is constitutionally bound to protect the
 fundamental rights of such disadvantaged people so as to
 direct the State to fulfil its constitutional promises. [See S.P.
 Gupta v. Union of India , People's Union for Democratic
 Rights v. Union of India ( 1982) 2 SCC 494, Bandhua Mukti
 Morcha v. Union of India and Others ( 1984) 3 SCC 161 and W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 93 Janata Dal v. H.S.Chowdhary (1992) 4 SCC 305)] (ii) Issues of public importance, enforcement of fundamental
 rights of a large number of the public vis-a-vis the
 constitutional duties and functions of the State, if raised, the
 Court treats a letter or a telegram as a public interest litigation
 upon relaxing procedural laws as also the law relating to
 pleadings. [See Charles Sobraj v. Supdt., Central Jail, Tihar,
 New Delhi ( 1978) 4 SCC 104 and Hussainara Khatoon and
 Others v. Home Secretary, State of Bihar (1980) 1 SCC 81)] (iii) Whenever injustice is meted out to a large number of
 people, the Court will not hesitate in stepping in. Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India as well as the International
 Conventions on Human Rights provide for reasonable and fair
 trial. In Mrs. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi v. Rani Jethmalani (AIR
 1979 SCC 468), it was held: v. Prabhat Mandal (Regd.), Andheri and others (1986) 1
 SCC 100] (vii) The dispute between two warring groups purely in the
 realm of private law would not be allowed to be agitated as a
 public interest litigation. (See Ramsharan Autyanuprasi v.
 Union of India and Others 1989 Supp (1) SCC 251) (viii) However, in an appropriate case, although the petitioner
 might have moved a court in his private interest and for
 redressal of personal grievances, the Court in furtherance of
 the public interest may treat it necessary to enquire into the
 state of affairs of the subject of litigation in the interest of
 justice. (See Shivajirao Nilangekar Patil v. Dr. Mahesh
 Madhav Gosavi and Others (1987) 1 SCC 227). (ix) The Court in special situations may appoint a
 Commission, or other bodies for the purpose of investigating
 into the allegations and finding out facts. It may also direct
 management of a public institution taken over by such
 Committee. (See Bandhua Mukti Morchai, Rakesh Chandra
 Narayan v. State of Bihar (1989) Suppl 1 SCC 644 and A.P.
 Pollution Control Board v. Prof. M.V. Nayudu (1999) 2 SCC W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 96 718). In Sachidanand Panday and Another v. State of West
 Bengal and others [(1987) 2 SCC 295], this Court held,- 97. This Court in the unreported judgment dated 30.06.2020 in B. Radhakrishna Menon v. State of Kerala and Ors . [W.P.(C)

No.12109 of 2020], at paragraph 45, held thus: 98. In the light of the principles of law laid down by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court as well as this Court, instant writ petition does not satisfy

the requirements of a Public Interest Litigation. 99. On the last issues as to whether, the petitioner has made out a

strong case for issuance of a writ of mandamus, the learned Advocate

General, in order to substantiate his arguments discussed above, relied on

various judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court especially to canvass the

proposition that, in order to grant the reliefs as sought for by the

petitioner, the materials made available and the pleadings made should W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 100 instill confidence in the Court. In Rajasthan State Industrial

Development and Investments Corporation and Another v. Diamond

and Gem Development Corporation Ltd. and Another [(2013) 5 SCC

470], the Hon'ble Apex Court while considering a question as to the

circumstances under which reliefs can be granted in a writ petition, held

that the discretion must be exercised by the Court on the grounds of

public policy, public interest and public good, that the writ is equitable in

nature and thus, its issuance is governed by equitable principles. 100. It was further held that, while granting such a writ, the Court

must make every effort to ensure from the averments of the writ petition,

whether there exist proper pleadings and that, in order to maintain the writ

of mandamus, the first and foremost requirement is that the petition must

not be a frivolous, and must be filed in good faith. It was also held that

the authority against whom mandamus is issued, should have rejected the

demand earlier and therefore, a demand and its subsequent refusal, either

by words, or by conduct, are necessary to satisfy the court that the

opposite party is determined to ignore the demand of the applicant with W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 101 respect to the enforcement of his legal right. But at the same time it was

held that a demand may not be necessary when the same is manifest from

the facts of the case. 101. With respect to the contention advanced by learned counsel

for petitioner that a close relative of the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Kerala,

who is running an information technology infrastructure company, has

real and intrinsic connections in the matter of collation of data, in the

contract with Sprinklr, learned Advocate General submitted that the said

allegation is vague and, therefore, cannot be taken note of by this Court,

while discharging the discretionary powers under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India. In this connection, he relied on the decision of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in Rani Lakshmibai Ksheptpriya, Gramin Bank

v. Chand Behari Kapoor and Others [(1998)7 SCC 469] wherein, at

paragraph 8, the Hon'ble Apex Court held thus: 102. In Raj Kumar Soni and Ors. v. State of U.P. and Ors. reported in [(2007) 10 SCC 635], the Hon'ble Apex Court, at paragraph

(11), held thus: 103. Indeed that Section 39 of the Cr.P.C enables the public to set

the criminal law in motion, but if the officer in-charge, fails to register an

FIR, the Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as this Court, in the above

decisions have considered whether the only remedy open to the

complainant or the first informant or the member of public to approach

the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and that

there is no other remedy provided under any other law, and answered that

writ is not the remedy. 104. It is clear from the above provisions in the Cr.P.C ., that if the

police did not register a case on the basis of a complaint filed by the

complainant, then he has got a remedy in the Code of Criminal Procedure ,

by approaching the jurisdictional Magistrate under Section 156(3) of the

Code or even file a private complaint under Section 190 read with Section W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 104 200 of the Code, and when a complaint is filed, then the Magistrate has to

conduct enquiry under Sections 200 and 202 of the Code, and if the

Magistrate is satisfied on the basis of the materials produced before that

court that commission of an offence has been prima facie made out, then

the Magistrate can take cognizance of the case and issue process to the

accused under Section 204 of the Code. If the Magistrate is not satisfied

with the materials produced and if he is satisfied that no offence has been

made out, then the Magistrate can dismiss the complaint under Section

203 of the Code. 105. Even if the Station House Officer commits a mistake in

arriving at the conclusion that the allegations are not sufficient to attract

the ingredients of commission of a cognizable offence, even this Court

cannot invoke the power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,

go into the question as to whether non satisfaction by the Station House

Officer is proper or not, to issue a writ of mandamus or other writs

directing the Station House Officer to register a crime as it is a matter to

be considered by the Magistrate under Section 190 read with Section 200 W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 105 of the Code on a complaint filed by the aggrieved party on account of the

inaction on the part of the police in not registering case in such cases. If

an enquiry has to be conducted for satisfaction regarding the commission

of offence, then it is not proper on the part of the High Court to invoke the

power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and parties must be

relegated to resort to their statutory remedy available under the Code in

such cases. After lodging the complaint before the concerned police and

if the police is not registering the case, the aggrieved person/complainant

can approach the Superintendent of Police with written application under Section 154(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and even in a case the

Superintendent of Police also does not register an FIR or no proper

investigation is done, the aggrieved person can approach the Magistrate

concern under Section 156 (3) of Cr.P.C. Without resorting to the

procedure as contemplated in the Cr.P.C , the petitioner has approached

this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 106. In view of the discussions made above, since the petitioner has

got an efficacious and alternate remedy available under the Code, if there W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 106 is inaction on the part of the Station House Officer in not registering a

case on the basis of the complaint given by him, the petitioner cannot take

recourse to this Court for issuance of writ of mandamus or other writ, to

the Station House Officer to register a crime and to investigate the case as

claimed by the petitioner. 107. In Harbanslal Sahnia and Anr. v. Indian Oil Corporation

Ltd. and Ors. [(2003) 2 SCC 107], enumerating the contingencies in

which the High Court could exercise its writ jurisdiction in spite of

availability of the alternative remedy, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

observed thus: 108. In Union of India v. Mangal Textile Mills (I) (P) Ltd,

[(2010) 14 SCC 553], the Hon'ble Supreme Court held thus:- 7. We find substance in the contention of the learned
 counsel for the appellants. It is true that power of the
 High Court to issue prerogative writs under Article 226 of
 the Constitution is plenary in nature and cannot be
 curtailed by other provision of the Constitution or a
 statute but the High Courts have imposed upon
 themselves certain restrictions on the exercise of such W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 108 power. One of such restrictions is that if an effective and
 efficacious remedy is available, the High Court would not
 normally exercise its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
 Constitution. But again, this rule of exclusion of writ
 jurisdiction on account of availability of an alternative
 remedy does not operate as an absolute bar to entertaining
 a writ petition but is a rule of discretion to be exercised
 depending on the facts of each case." 109. The petitioner has solely relied on the statement of the Leader

of the Opposition and contended that if it is true, the matter requires

investigation. As such, he has no evidence or material, and that is why he

has prayed for an interim direction, as stated above. Investigation is the

function of the police and writ court cannot be converted as an

investigation agency. 110. Instant writ petition has been filed on 8.7.2020. Office has

made an objection. Petitioner has sent the legal notice to the respondents

on 9.7.2020. We have called for the file relating to W.P.(C) No. 9531 of

2020. Complaint dated 20.04.2020 has been sent to the Director General

of Police, Trivandrum; the Inspector of Police, Museum Police Station; W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 109 and the Director of Vigilance and Anti-corruption Bureau, Trivandrum.

For the first time, after the filing of the instant writ petition, legal notice

has been sent to the Director, Central Bureau of Investigation, New Delhi;

Director, Enforcement Directorate, New Delhi; and the Director, NIA,

New Delhi. Before seeking for a prayer for mandamus against the CBI

and NIA to register an FIR, no complaint has been made. 111. Remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is

extraordinary. Exercise of power to entertain a writ petition arises if only

the person, who alleges inaction on the part of the statutory authorities,

has no other alternative and efficacious remedy under the Statute. True,

the Hon'ble Apex Court has also held that there is no fetters in

entertaining a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,

whether a person complains of violation of his fundamental or statutory

right, but at the same time, it should be borne in mind that if there is an

adequate and efficacious remedy available to such person, to vindicate his

grievance, then the self imposed restraint on the writ court to exercise the

extraordinary jurisdiction shall be applied and such person should be W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 110 relegated to avail the statutory remedy. 112. Merely because allegations are levelled against the Hon'ble

Chief Minister and others and in as much as the allegations relate to abuse

of power, it cannot be contended that the nature and magnitude require

issuance of a writ as the only remedy available to the petitioner.

However, intricate the magnitude and the nature of the offences alleged,

the Code of Criminal Procedure has envisaged a procedure to be followed

and, therefore, the same cannot be given a go-by, and a writ petition is not

the proper remedy. 113. In the light of the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court as

well as this Court, and our conclusion that no writ of mandamus can be

issued, we do not propose to delve into other rival contentions as to

whether, the State Government could have written to the Central

Government to include the allegations relating to corruption also. 114. As the writ petition itself is not maintainable, there is also no

need to go into the issue as to whether, National Investigation Agency

while investigating any Scheduled Offence may also investigate any other W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 111 offence which the accused is alleged to have committed, if the offence is

connected with the Scheduled Offence. Therefore, judged from any angle,

we are of the view, petitioner has not made out a case for issuance of a

writ of mandamus. In the result, the writ petition is dismissed. No costs. Sd/- S. Manikumar,
 Chief Justice

 Sd/- Shaji P. Chaly
 Judge

krj W.P.(C) No.14316 of 2020 112 APPENDIX

PETITIONER'S EXHIBITS: