RAJNISH BHATNAGAR, J. 1. By way of this order, I shall dispose of the present bail application
 filed under Section 439 Cr.P.C. read with Section 482 Cr.P.C. on behalf of
 the petitioner for grant of regular bail in case FIR No. 656/2020 registered
 U/s 376/506 IPC at Police station Ranhola, Delhi. 2. Briefly stated, the allegations against the petitioner as per the
 complaint of the victim/complaint are that she met one Rajiv more than 6
 years ago when she alongwith her husband mortgaged property bearing No.
 A-154 Sainik Enclave Gali No. 4 for a total amount of Rs. 4 lakh. According to the complainant, she met one Sanjeev in the office of Rajeev.
 Later on 29 September 2016, she received a call from Sanjay (present
 petitioner) who asked her to meet him one time by saying he had taken the
 documents of her property from Sanjeev. She went to meet Sanjay, who
 gave her a glass of cold drink and after drinking the same she became
 unconscious. When she regained consciousness after about 2 hours,
 petitioner showed her nude photos and videos. Then petitioner blackmailed
 her to have physical relations with him. After that petitioner called her to
 his home and forced her to make physical relations with him by threatening
 her and showing her nude photos and videos. According to the complainant,
 he continued this till May, 2019. When the complainant / victim demanded
 her property papers, petitioner replied that the papers are now with one
 Satish who is the financer and now she would have to make him happy, only
 then she will get the papers. When the complainant/victim refused the same
 stating that she would make a complaint against the petitioner to the police
 then, petitioner threatened her to kill. According to the complainant/victim
 last time petitioner had made physical relation with her on 6 December
 2019. It is further alleged by the victim/complainant that she told petitioner
 that he has ruined her life and asked him to keep her but the petitioner was
 not ready to keep her with him. On the basis of above allegations made by
 the complainant/victim, the present case was registered. 3. I have heard the Ld. counsel for the petitioner, Ld. APP for the State,
 Ld. counel for the victim/complainant and also perused the status report
 filed by the state. 4. It is submitted by the Ld. counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner
 is in J.C. since 23.06.2020. At the outset, counsel for the petitioner
 submitted that the petitioner was a married woman when she first met the
 petitioner. He further submitted that the petitioner has been falsely
 implicated and it was a consensual relationship which is evident from the
 fact that respondent No. 2 has got the name of the petitioner permanently
 tattooed on her forearm which shows her love towards the petitioner. He
 further submitted that respondent No. 2 had sent photograph of the tattoo to
 the petitioner via email on two occasions dated 13.12.2019 and 22.01.2020.
 He further submitted that respondent No. 2 has clicked selfies with the
 petitioner, exchanged garlands with him, attended festivities and celebrated
 functions which is evident from the photographs filed on record. He further
 submitted that the respondent No. 2 has even sent friend request to the
 petitioner on face book. He further submitted that the respondent No. 2 was
 in love with the petitioner and when she failed to convince the petitioner to
 maintain ties then she got the present case registered. He further submitted
 that there is a delay of about 7 months in the registration of the FIR. He
 further submitted that the house in which the prosecutrix claimed to have
 been kept by the petitioner was in fact let out to the prosecutrix. He further
 submitted that during this long period of their association of around 4 years,
 she never made complaint to her husband. 5. On the other hand, Ld. APP for the State has argued on the lines of
 the status report. 6. In the present case, according to the prosecutrix she met the petitioner
 for the first time on 29.09.2016. At that time she was married to one
 Mahesh and she had gone with him to mortgage her property papers.
 According to the prosecutrix between 29 September, 2016 till May 2019 the
 petitioner kept on making physical relations with her by showing her nude
 photographs and again he made physical relations with her on 6 December,
 2019. The prosecutrix kept quiet for 3 long years and did not make any
 complaint against the petitioner and she even did not inform her husband
 about the acts of the petitioner. 7. The contention of the counsel for the petitioner is that the prosecutrix
 was in love with the petitioner. The prosecutrix in the instant case is a
 married woman and she got engraved tattoo of the petitioner on her forearm
 which according to her was forcefully engraved by the petitioner when she
 was in captivity in his house from 25.01.2020 to 15.04.2020. In my opinion,
 making of tattoo is an art and special machine is required for the same.
 Moreover, it is also not easy to make such a tattoo which is on the forearm
 of the complainant if there is some resistance from the other side. It is not
 everybody's job and it is also not the case of the prosecutrix that the
 petitioner had anything to do with the tattoo business. 8. One of the allegations of the complainant/prosecutrix is that she was
 confined in the house by the petitioner from 25.01.2020 to 15.04.2020,
 however, the charge sheet revealed that the said house was taken on rent by
 the complainant herself and the enquiries from one Naveen Sharma, landlord
 revealed that the prosecutrix was residing alone in the said house. There are BAIL APPLN. 3128/2020 Page 4 of 5 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:12.02.2021 16:09 allegations from the side of the prosecurtrix in regard to the threats
 extended to her but as per the status report no threats were extended by the
 petitioner or on his behalf as alleged by the prosecutrix. 9. The status report reveals that at the time of arrest the mobile phone of
 the petitioner was seized but no nude photographs were found. It is further
 revealed in the status report that there were no recording of threats as alleged
 by the prosecutrix. Therefore, in these circumstances her mobile was not
 seized. There is a delay in registration of FIR, though delay is not fatal in
 every case but at this stage, no opinion is being expressed on the aspect of
 delay in lodging the FIR. 10. Without commenting on the merits, in the facts and circumstances of
 this case, the application is allowed and the petitioner is admitted to bail on
 his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs. 25,000/- with one surety of
 the like amount subject to the satisfaction of the concerned Court below.
 The bail application is disposed of accordingly. All pending applications
 (if any) are also disposed of accordingly. 11. Nothing stated hereinabove shall tantamount to the expression of any
 opinion on the merits of this case. RAJNISH BHATNAGAR, J

 FEBRUARY 12, 2021
 Sumant BAIL APPLN. 3128/2020 Page 5 of 5 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:12.02.2021 16:09