For Applicant : Shri Arshdeep Khurana, Advocate through VC
 assisted by Shri Sourabh Dangi and Shri Sajal
 Kumar Gupta, Advocates
For Respondent/ED : Dr. Saurabh Kumar Pandey, Advocate

 (HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE ARVIND KUMAR VERMA)
 CAV ORDER

 By way of present application under Section 483 of the Bhartiya

Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 ('BNSS') on behalf of the applicant

herein, the applicant is seeking grant of regular bail in 2 ECIR/RPZO/04/2024 dated 11.04.2024 for the offence under Section 3

read with Section 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. 2. Facts of the case in brief are that the applicant was absconding

till he was arrested on 06.05.2023 in ECIR/RPZO/11/2022. Search

Operation under Section 17 of the PMLA was conducted at his

premises and was found hiding at a hotel and he was arrested. Chhatisgarh State police registered an FIR bearing No. 04/2024

dated 17.01.2024 at EOW/ACB, Raipur under Sections for the offence

punishable under Sections 120-B , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC and Section

7 & 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act against Mr. Anil Tuteja

(retired IAS) then Joint Secretary in CG State, Anwar Dhebar, Mr.

Arunpati Tripathi (ITS) then Special Secretary, Government of

Commerce and industry Department and MD CG State Marketing

Corporation Ltd. Mr. Vikas Agarwal @ Subbu, Mr. Sanjay Diwan and

Others for collecting commissions and supplying unaccounted liquor to

government liquor shops resulting in an approximate loss of Rs. 2161

crores to the government. 3. The manufacturers of country liquor in Chhattisgarh namely CG

Distilleries Ltd., M/s. Bhatia Wine Merchant Private ltd. And Welcome

Distilleries Pvt. Ltd. Are licensed to supply country liquor in the State. It

is alleged that Co-accused Anwar Dhebar took advantage of his

political influence and family relations with Anil Tuteja and in association

with Arunpathi Tripathi, the Managing Director of CSMCL lead to

increase in the rate of liquor production and supply and in return gained

illegal commissions amounting to lakhs of rupees from the distillery

owners which is called Part -A. 3 4. Similarly, a new system which ran parallel to the existing system

of selling country liquor through government shops was created without

any records from distillery operators, which involved constructing

duplicate holograms and selling them separately through government

liquor shops. The illegal sale of these duplicate holograms resulted in

earning worth crores of rupees in which several individuals were

implicated including distillery owners, bottle supplier agencies, duplicate

hologram supplying agencies, agencies involved in the collection of

money. These illicit sale took place during the years 2019-20,2020-21

and 2021-22 and is called Part-B. 5. Additionally, the collection of bribes from foreign liquor

manufacturers FL-10A license was implemented, which was granted to

three favoured firms of Anwar Dhebar. The license FL-10A was granted

to Mr. Sanjay Mishra and Manish Mishra of M/s. Nexgen power

Engitech Pvt. Ltd. , Mr. Atul Kumar Singh and Mr. Mukesh Manchanda

of M/s. Om Sai Beverage Pvt. Ltd. And Mr. Ashish Saurabh Kedia of

M/s. Dishita Ventures Pvt. Ltd. These license holders were granted

tender for the supply of foreign liquor through a conspiracy. All the three

licence holding firms procured liquor from foreign liquor manufacturing

Companies and made it available to the State government, making a

profit of 10%. Out of this profit, 60% was given to the syndicate and the

remaining 40% was received by the license holders. The syndicate received commission from the distillery owners by

increasing, parallel manufacturing and supplying duplicate liquor

through the F-10-A license. 6. The FIR for the predicate offence as discussed above is

registered by ACB/EOW, Raipur under Sections 120-B , 420 , 467 and 4 471 IPC and Sections 7 & 12 of the PC Act which are the scheduled

offence included in paragraphs 1 &8 of Part A of the Schedule to PMLA,

2002 as defined under Section 2(1)(y) of the Act and accordingly,

enquiries were initiated under the PMLA against the suspected persons

after recording the facts of scheduled ofence and initiating money

laundering investigation in file No. ECIR/RPZO/04/2024 on 11.04.2024

by the officials of Directorate of Enforcement, Raipur. 7. The Enforcement Directorate has analyzed the predicate offence

including the statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002

shared by the Assistant Director. During investigation, statements of

distillers, FL-10A licenses, manpower supplier agencies and others

were recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002. Ont he basis of the

above documents and records it has been established that a well

planned systematic conspiracy was executed by the syndicate to earn

illegal commission in the sale and licensing of liquor in the State of

Chhattisgarh. 8. The excise policy in the State of Chhattisgarh was amended in

the year 2017 The excise policy in the State of Chhattisgarh was

amended in the year 2017 and CSMCL in February, 2017, was thus

created with the responsibility to exclusively retail liquor in the State of

Chhattisgarh through its stores. The CSMCL was established with the

vision to provide genuine liquor, to stop sale of illegal Liquor, to provide

liquor on MRP. It established its own stores to retail the

liquor/beer/wine/country liquor after procuring liquor from manufacturers

directly and IMFL from another State PSU CSBCL. 9. It has also been revealed that with the advent of new policy in the

State, CSMCL was incorporated and it established its own stores to 5 retain the liquor/beer/wine/country liquor after procuring country liquor

directly from manufacturers and IMFL was procured from suppliers and

stored in warehouses of another State Public Sector Undertaking,

Chhattsigarh State Beverage Corporation Limited (CSBCL). The shops

were supposed to be run by outsourced staff and cash collected was to

be done by private vendors/Bank representatives. 10. Liquor was divided into two categories namely Country liquor

and Indian Manufactured Foreign Liquor (IMFL). Country Liquor was

produced in the State of Chhattisgarh through three distilleries : The CSMCL became the tool in the hands of the syndicate which

was used by it to enforce a parallel excise department. The syndicate

comprises of senior bureaucrats of State, politicians and officials of

excise department. In February 2019, Arun Pati Tripathi (ITS Offier)

was chosen by the syndicate to lead the CSMCL and later on he was

made the Managing Director of the organization at the behest of

present applicant Anwar Dhebar. 11. It is submitted that the as part of the conspiracy, Arun Pati

Tripathi was assigned with the task to maximize the bribe commission

collected on liquor procured by M/s. CSMCL and to make necessary

arrangement for sale of non-duty paid liquor in the CSMCL run shops.

Arun Pati Tripathi was supported by the present applicant Anwar

Dhebar and Senior IAS Officer in this operation. In furtherance of his

plans, Anwar Dhebar gave the task of cash collecting to Vikas Agrawal

@ Subbu and the logistics were set to be the responsibility of the 6 present applicant - Arvind Singh. Thus, the syndicate took its shape.

SUBMISSION ON BEHALF OF THE APPLICANT 12. Contention of Shri Khurana, learned counsel for the applicant is

that the applicant has been arrested in the aforesaid cases on false

pretext despite the fact that there is no recovery from of any

incriminating material, unaccounted ash or disproportionate assets. The

applicant has undergone custody of over 333 days in relation to the

same allegations by different agencies. He submits that the said ECIR

is essentially a second ECIR, the first being ECIR bearing

ECOR/RPZO/11/2022 which was quashed by the Apex Court vide order

dated 08.04.2024 with a categorical finding that no scheduled ofence is

made out and there were no proceeds of crime in relation to the ECIR

11 and the Prosecution Complaint filed therein. The said ECIR was

registered merely 3 days after the quashing of the 1st ECIR on the same

alleged liquor scam making the same allegations arising of the same

transaction. 13. Based upon the Prosecution Complaint filed by the Income Tax

Department bearing Ct. Case No. 1183/2022 under Sections

276(C) / 277 / 278 / 278E of the IT Act read with Section

120-B / 191 / 199 / 200 / 204 IPC the Ed registered an ECIR bearing No.

ECIR/RPZO/112022. The ED considered Section 120-B IPC standalone

as the underlying scheduled offence. 14. It is submitted that the ED had filed the first Prosecution

Complaint in the said ECIR arraigning co-accused of the applicant as

an accused therein. Pertinently, the Prosecution Complaint was nothing

but an exact replica of the Prosecution Complaint filed in the ECIR 11, 7 wherein the Applicant was made an accused and which was quashed

by the Apex Court vide order dated 08.04.2024. On 08.08.2024,

pursuant to the production warrant, the applicant was produced before

this Court and was arrested by the Prosecuting Agency for the second

time in relation to the same alleged liquor scam to which the applicant

had opposed and he was remanded to ED custody. On 14.08.2024, the

applicant preferred petition bearing Cr.M.P. No. 2276/2024 which was

dismissed vide order dated 23.08.2024. On 20.08.2024, this Court had

dismissed the batch of petitions challenging inter alia the Chhattisgarh

FIR and the ECIR 04. On 30.08.2024, the ED filed supplementary

Prosecution Complaint in thee said ECIR and the applicant was not

arraigned as accused. Therafter on 5.10.2024, the respondent/ED filed

a second supplementary Prosecution Complaint in the said ECIR

arraigning the applicant as accused. The learned Special Judge

(PMLA) Raipur took cognizance of the offence under Section 3 of the

PMLA and investigation is going on. 15. On 27.11.2024, the co-accused (Trilok Singh Dhillon) was

granted bail by the Apex Court in the Chhattisgarh FIR (SLP Crl.) No.

14697/2024 which shall become operative from 15.01.2025. Co-

accused Arun Pati Tripathi had approached the Apex Court in SLP (Cr.)

No. 16219/2024 seeking bail in relation to the said ECIR. Thereafter on

6.12.2024 the petition challenging the arrest of the applicant in relation

to the said ECIR was heard on the date when the Apex Court granted

permission to the applicant to withdraw the petition and seek bail from

this Court. On 7.12.2024, the applicant filed application under Section

483 of the Bhartiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 before the Special

Judge (PMLA), Raipur seeking regular bail which was dismissed. 8 Against which the applicant has come before this Court. 16. Contention of the learned counsel for the applicant is that the

learned Special Judge had erroneously dismissed the application of the

applicant. He submits that even if the allegation is one of the grave

economic ofence, it is not a rule that bail should be denied in every

case. The consideration has to be made on a case to case basis on the

facts. The primary object is to secure t he presence of the accused to

stand trial. He has plaed his reliance in the matter of P.Chidambaram

Vs. ED (2020) 13 SCC 791. 17. He contended that the investigation against the applicant is

concluded, the applicant had suffered 20 days of ED custody and 194

days of judicial custody in relation to the alleged liquor scam. He

submits that there is no apprehension of violation of the triple test and if

the applicant is denied bail at this stage,he will remain in custody for an

indefinite period. He has placed his reliance in the matter of Satender

Kumar Anitl Vs. CBI SLP 5191/2021; Krishnan Subramanian Vs.

State NCT of Delhi 2022 SCC Online Del 1384. He submits that there

has been no recovery of any unaccounted assets or incriminating

material from the applicant or his family members. 18. It is submitted that as per the ED, investigation against 11

persons including the applicant is complete and three prosecution

complaints against 11 accused persons spanning to nearly 20,000

pages with over 30 witnesses and 250 documents have been filed by

the investigating agency and the investigation is going on. Despite the

alleged huge scam, prosecution complaint has been filed against 11

persons. Even as per allegations made in the complaint filed by the ED

role of other individuals have also been surfaced. 9 The status of trial in the scheduled offence must be taken into

account while considering the issue of delay in trial in the PMLA case

because the PMLA proceedings are contingent on the proceedings in

the scheduled offence. In the matter of Senthil Balaji Vs. Directorate

of Enforcement Crl . App. No. 4011/2024, it has been held as under: 19. The scheduled offence trial will be significantly delayed because: 20. There is no scope of the trial to commence and the proceedings

before the learned Special Judge are at the stage of Section 207 Cr.P.C. proceedings and no charges have been framed therein. He

contended that the applicant has a fundamental right to liberty and his

liberty cannot be curtailed in such a manner and the same is violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. He ought to have been released

from custody in relation to the Chhattisgarh FIR. He has placed his

reliance in the matter of Manish Sisodia Vs. ED, SLP Crl. No. 8781 of

2024, wherein it has been held as under: 21. Similarly, in the matter of Bibhav Kumar Vs. State (NCT of

Delhi) 2024 SCC Online SC 2646, wherein the bail was granted inter

alia on the ground that he has been in custody for 100 days. It further

reads as under: 22. Further in the matter of Javed Gulam Nabi Shaikh Vs. State of

Maharastra, 2024 SC Online SC 1693, it has been observed as under: 23. The Apex Court in the cases of prolonged incarceration and delay

in trial, the Prosecution should not even oppose the bail on the ground

of seriousness of offence. He has referred to the judgment of Gulam

Nabi shaikh Vs. State of Maharastra, 2024 SCC OnLine SC1693,

wherein it has been observed that : 24. It is contended that the investigating agency in the scheduled

offence has submitted that at least 3 to 4 more charge sheets are yet to

be filed in the scheduled offence. There are nearly 70 accused persons

in the Chhattisgarh FIR and the charge sheet has been filed only

against 11 persons. There are over 400 witnesses in the scheduled

offence. The Apex Court has opined that the trial is not likely to

conclude in the scheduled offence vide order dated 12.12.2024 in SLP

(Crl.) No. 16219/2024. He submits that the applicant has a

fundamental right to liberty and his liberty cannot be curtained in such a

manner indefinitely. The same is violative of Article 21 of the

Constitution. Time and again it has been reiterated by the Apex Court

that the Right to Speedy Trial is a facet of the fundamental right to life of

an accused under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. He has placed

his reliance in the matter of Manish Sisodia Vs. CBI and ED (2023)

SCC OnLine SC 1393 wherein it has been held that : 49 In P. Chidambaram v. Central Bureau of
Investigation , (2020) 13 SCC 337, the appellant
therein was granted bail after being kept in
custody for around 62 days. This Court referred to Section 19 of the
PML Act, for the in-built safeguards to be adhered
to by the authorized officers to ensure fairness,
objectivity and accountability. Vijay Madanlal
Choudhary (supra), also held that Section 436A of
the Code can apply to offences under the PML
Act , as it effectuates the right to speedy trial, a
facet of the right to life, except for a valid ground
such as where the trial is delayed at the instance
of the accused himself. In our opinion, Section 436A should not be
construed as a mandate that an accused should
not be granted bail under the PML Act till he has
suffered incarceration for the specified period.
This Court, in Arnab Manoranjan Goswami v. State of Maharashtra and Others (2021) 2 SCC
427, held that while ensuring proper enforcement
of criminal law on one hand, the court must be
conscious that liberty across human eras is as
tenacious as tenacious can be. 29. Detention or jail before being pronounced
guilty of an offence should not become
punishment without trial. If the trial gets protracted 15 despite assurances of the prosecution, and it is
 clear that case will not be decided within a
 foreseeable time, the prayer for bail may be
 meritorious. While the prosecution may pertain to
 an economic offence, yet it may not be proper to
 equate these cases with those punishable with
 death, imprisonment for life, ten years or more
 like offences under the Narcotic Drugs and
 Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 , murder,
 cases of rape, dacoity, kidnapping for ransom,
 mass violence, etc. Neither is this a case where
 100/1000s of depositors have been defrauded. The allegations have to be established and
 proven. The right to bail in cases of delay,
 coupled with incarceration for a long period,
 depending on the nature of the allegations,
 should be read into Section 439 of the Code and Section 45 of the PML Act. The reason is that the
 constitutional mandate is the higher law, and it is
 the basic right of the person charged of an
 offence and not convicted, that he be ensured
 and given a speedy trial. When the trial is not
 proceeding for reasons not attributable to the
 accused, the court, unless there are good
 reasons, may well be guided to exercise the
 power to grant bail. This would be truer where the
 trial would take years." 25. Further he has relied upon the decisions of Satender Kumar

Antil Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation (2002) 10 SCC 561; Surinder Singh Alias Shingara Singh Vs. State of Punjab (2005)7

SCC 387 and Kashmira Singh Vs. State of Punjab (1977) 4 SCC 291. In the matter of Manish Sisodia Vs. ED and CBI (supra), it has

been held that : The Court held that the constitutional mandate is
the higher law, and it is the basic right of the
person charged of an offence and not convicted
that he be ensured and given a speedy trial. It
further observed that when the trial is not
proceeding for reasons not attributable to the
accused, the court, unless there are good
reasons, would be guided to exercise the power
to grant bail. The Court specifically observed that
this would be true where the trial would take
years. It could thus clearly be seen that this
Court, in the first round of litigation between the
parties, has specifically observed that in case of
delay coupled with incarceration for a long period
and depending on the nature of the allegations,
the right to bail will have to be read into Section
45 of PMLA. XXXX XXXX XXXX 39. A Division Bench of this Court in the case of
Ramkripal Meena v. Directorate of Enforcement5
was considering an application of the petitioner
therein who was SLP(Crl.) No. 3205 of 2024
dated 30.07.2024 to receive a bribe of rupees five
crore and from whom, an amount of
Rs.46,00,000/- was already recovered. In the said
case, the petitioner was arrested on 26th January
2022 in connection with FIR No. 402/2021
registered against him for the offences punishable
under Sections 406 , 420 , 120B of IPC and Section 4 / 6 of the Rajasthan Public Examination
(Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 1992. He was
released on bail by this Court vide order dated
18th January 2023. Thereafter, the petitioner was
arrested by the ED on 21st June 2023. The Court 17 observed thus: 44. The learned Special Judge and the learned
Single Judge of the High Court have considered
the applications on merits as well as on the
grounds of delay and denial of right to speedy
trial. We see no error in the judgments and orders
of the learned Special Judge as well as the High
Court in considering the merits of the matter. In
view of the observations made by this Court in the
first order, they were entitled to consider the
same. However, the question that arises is as to
whether the trial court and the High Court have
correctly considered the observations made by
this Court with regard to right to speedy trial and
prolonged period of incarceration. The courts
below have rejected the claim of the appellant
applying the triple test as contemplated under Section 45 of the PMLA. In our view, this is in
ignorance of the observations made by this Court
in paragraph 28 of the first order wherein this
Court specifically observed that right to bail in
cases of delay coupled with incarceration for a
long period should be read into Section 439 Cr.P.C. and Section 45 of the PMLA. 26. It is well settled that the object of bail is neither punitive nor

preventative. The primary purpose of bail in a criminal case is to ensure

that the accused will submit to the jurisdiction of the Court and be in

attendance whenever his presence is required. Deprivation of liberty

must be considered punishment unless it can be required to ensure that

an accused person will stand trial when called upon. Punishment can

only begin after conviction and necessity is the operative test. in the

matter of Manish Sisodia 3 (2024) SCC OnLine SC 920, it has been

held as under: 27. In the matter of Gudikanti Narasimhulu Vs. Public Prosecutor,

High Court of Andhra Pradesh (1978) 1 SCC 240 it has been held as

under: 28. In the matter of Javed Gulam Nabi Shaikh Vs. State of

Maharashtra , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1693, it has been held as under: 11. The same principle has been reiterated by
 this Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibba v. State of
 Punjab reported in (1980) 2 SCC 565 that the
 object of bail is to secure the attendance of the
 accused at the trial, that the proper test to be
 applied in the solution of the question whether
 bail should be granted or refused is whether it
 is probable that the party will appear to take his
 trial and that it is indisputable that bail is not to
 be withheld as a punishment. 29. He contended that the applicant shall be severely prejudiced and

prejudged if he is continually remanded to custody. It is imperative for 20 the proper and effective defence of the applicant and as a step to

ensure the fair trial of the applicant, he be on bail unless there are

overwhelming considerations otherwise. It is submitted that there are

over 70 witnesses named in the prosecution complaint filed by the ED

in the said ECIR. It has been four months since the arrest of the

applicant in the present case and over two months since the date of

filing of the prosecution complaint against the applicant. He submits

that the arrest of applicant is completely malafide and he cannot be

arrested twice for the same alleged offence. The applicant has already

been subjected to illegal custody of the ED in relation to the same set of

allegations and alleged transactions for a period of over 2.5 months.

Since the Prosecution complaint against the applicant stood filed in the

first ECIR there was no necessity of any arrest or custodial

interrogation of the applicant and the applicant could not have been

arrested in the same for the allegations for a second time. 30. It is contended by the learned counsel for the applicant that the

ED had relied upon the same inadmissible material including some

whatsapp chats which was not enough to make the applicant an

accused in the Prosecution Complaint filed in ECIR 11. The series of

facts clearly demonstrates that there was no necessity to arrest the

applicant and he was not arraigned as an accused in the prosecution

Complaint dated 19.06.2024 solely to keep alive the prospects of arrest

of the applicant in the said ECIR and deny him the benefit of the law laid down by the Apex Court in the matter of Tarsem Lal Vs.

Enforcement Directorate, 2024 SCC Online SC 971. he submits that

the only material relied upon by the ED while affecting the arrest of the

applicant was the material collected during an illegal investigation which 21 has been quashed by the Apex Court on 08.04.2024. He submits that

the statements recorded in the ECIR 11 and being relied upon in the

ECIR 04 apart from being quashed by the Apex Court have also been

retracted by multiple individuals as the officers of the ED in ECIR 11

had coerced, threatened and made them sign pre-typed statements. He

contended that the arrest under PMLA can be effected only when an

accused is considered to be guilty of the ofence under Section 3 of the

PMLA and guilt can only be established on admissible material. 31. Next contention of the counsel for the applicant is that there has

been no recovery of any unaccounted money or disproportionate asset

from the applicant despite conducting investigation by the

respondent/Agency. It is settled law that mere apprehension of the

agency without any basis cannot be a ground to reject bail. More so

when the accused has been in custody for long period and charge

sheet has been filed. He has placed his reliance in the matter of P.

Chidambaram Vs. Directorate of enforcement (2020) 13 SCC 791,

wherein it has been observed as under: laundering" to be an offence. Section 3 of PMLA
 states that whosoever directly or indirectly
 attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or
 knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any
 process or activity connected with the proceeds
 of the crime and projecting it as untainted
 property shall be guilty of the offences of money
 laundering. The provisions of the PMLA including Section 3 have undergone various amendments. The words in Section 3 "with the proceeds of
 crime and projecting" has been amended as
 "proceeds of crime including its concealment,
 possession, acquisition or use and projecting or
 claiming" by the Amendment Act 2 of 2013 (w.e.f.
 15.02.2013). 27. Section 4 of PMLA deals with punishment for
money laundering. Prior to Amendment Act 2 of
2013, Section 4 provided punishment with
rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not
be less than three years but which may extend to
seven years and the fine which may extend to
Rs.5,00,000/-. By Amendment Act 2 of 2013, Section 4 is amended w.e.f. 15.02.2013 vide S.O.
343(E) dated 08.02.2013. Now, the punishment
prescribed under Section 4 of PMLA to the
offender is rigorous imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than three years but which
may extend to seven years and the offender is
also liable to pay fine. The limit of fine has been
done away with and now after the amendment,
appropriate fine even above Rs.5,00,000/- can be
imposed against the offender. 29. The term "reason to believe" is not defined in
PMLA. The expression "reason to believe" has
been defined in Section 26 of IPC. As per the
definition in Section 26 IPC, a person is said to
have "reason to believe" a thing, if he has
sufficient cause to believe that thing but not
otherwise. The specified officer must have
"reason to believe" on the basis of material in his
possession that the property sought to be
attached is likely to be concealed, transferred or
dealt with in a manner which may result in
frustrating any proceedings for confiscation of
their property under the Act. It is stated that in the
present case, exercising power under Section 5 of the PMLA, the Adjudicating Authority had
attached some of the properties of the appellant.
Challenging the attachment, the appellant and
others are said to have preferred appeal before
the Appellate Tribunal and stay has been granted
by the Appellate Authority and the said appeal is
stated to be pending. 30. As rightly submitted by the learned Solicitor
General, sufficient safeguards are provided under
the provisions of PMLA. Under Section 5 of
PMLA, the Director or any other officer not below
the rank of Deputy Director authorised by the
Director for the purposes of Section 5 who
passed the impugned order is required to have
"reason to believe" that the properties sought to 23 be attached would be transferred or dealt with in
a manner which would frustrate the proceedings
relating to confiscation of such properties. Further, the officer who passed the order of
attachment is required to record the reasons for
such belief. The provisions of the PMLA and the
Rules also provide for manner of forwarding a
copy of the order of provisional attachment of
property along with material under sub-section (2)
of Section 5 of PMLA to the Adjudicating
Authority. 31. In order to ensure the safeguards, in exercise
of power under Section 73 of PMLA, the Central
Government has framed "The Prevention of
Money-Laundering (The Manner of Forwarding a
Copy of the Order of Provisional Attachment of
Property along with the Material, and Copy of the
Reasons along with the Material in respect of
Survey, to the Adjudicating Authority and its
period of Retention) Rules, 2005". Rule 3 of the
said Rules provides for manner of forwarding a
copy of the order of provisional attachment of
property along with the material under sub- section (2) of Section 5 of the Act to the
Adjudicating Authority. Rule 3 stipulates various
safeguards as to the confidentiality of the sealed
envelope sent to the Adjudicating Authority. 32. Section 17 of PMLA deals with the search
and seizure. Section 17 which deals with search
and seizure states that where the Director or any
other officer not below the rank of Deputy
Director authorised by him for the purposes of
this section on the basis of the information in his
possession has "reason to believe" (reason for
such belief to be recorded in writing) that any
person has committed an offence which
constitutes the money laundering or is in
possession of any proceeds of crime involved in
money laundering etc. may search building, place
and seize any record or property found as a
result of such search. Section 17 of PMLA also
uses the expression "reason to believe" and
"reason for such belief to be recorded in writing".
Here again, the authorised officer shall
immediately on search and seizure or upon
issuance of freezing order forward a copy of the 24 reasons so recorded along with the material in his
 possession to the Adjudicating Authority in a
 "sealed envelope" in the manner as may be
 prescribed and such Adjudicating Authority shall
 keep such reasons and material for such period
 as may be prescribed. In order to ensure the
 sanctity of the search and seizure and to ensure
 the safeguards, in exercise of power under Section 73 of PMLA, the Central Government has
 framed "The Prevention of Money-Laundering
 (Forms, Search and Seizure or Freezing and the
 Manner of Forwarding the Reasons and Material
 to the Adjudicating Authority, Impounding and
 Custody of Records and the period of Retention)
 Rules, 2005"." 32. It has been contended by the counsel for the applicant that bail

can be granted even if there is a ground to believe that trial would not

conclude in near future. The Court does not have to wait for 436-A Cr.P.C . As has been held in the matter of Manish Sisodia Vs.ED SLP

(Crl.) No. 8781 of 2024,

 "28. Detention or jail before being pronounced
 guilty of an offence should not become
 punishment without trial. If the trial gets protracted
 despite assurances of the prosecution, and it is
 clear that case will not be decided within a
 foreseeable time, the prayer for bail may be
 meritorious. While the prosecution may pertain to
 an economic offence, yet it may not be proper to
 equate these cases with those punishable with
 death, imprisonment for life, ten years or more
 like offences under the Narcotic Drugs and
 Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 , murder,
 cases of rape, dacoity, kidnaping for ransom,
 mass violence, etc. Neither is this a case where
 100/1000s of depositors have been defrauded. The allegations have to be established and
 proven. The right to bail in cases of delay, coupled
 with incarceration for a long period, depending on
 the nature of the allegations, should be read into
 Section 439 of the Code and Section 45 of the 25 PML Act . The reason is that the constitutional
 mandate is the higher law, and it is the basic right
 of the person charged of an offence and not
 convicted, that he be ensured and given a speedy
 trial. When the trial is not proceeding for reasons
 not attributable to the accused, the court, unless
 there are good reasons, may well be guided to
 exercise the power to grant bail. This would be
 truer where the trial would take years." 33. Next contention of the counsel for the applicant is that the arrest

under PMLA can be effected only when an accused is considered to be

guilty of the offence under Section 3 of the PMLA and guilt can only be

established on admissible material. He submits that the only material

available with the ED while effecting arrest of the applicant was the

material collected during an illegal investigation which has been

quashed by the Apex Court on 08.04.2024. A comparison of the

grounds of arrest in the first ECIR and first Prosecution complaint vis-a

vis grounds of arrest in second ECIR and second Prosecution

complaint shows that the basis of arresting the applicant in both the

ECIRs is identical. There is no new material which has been relied

upon by the ED in the second ECIR necessitating the arrest of the

applicant. He submits that a departmental enquiry was also conducted

by the Excise Department which concluded that there was no offence

committed and the entire sale of liquor was carried out in a legal

manner. It is contended that no new statement has been relied upon in

the grounds of arrest. In the second ECIR, investigating the same

offence is completely illegal and tenable in law. The arrest of the

accused is amenable to judicial review and arresting a person without

the need and necessity of arrest would render it to be illegal. It is further

contended that there has been no recovery of any unaccounted money, 26 incriminating material, illegal liquor bottles or counterfeit holograms

from the applicant or any other individual to implicate the present

applicant. It is contended that 115 properties have alleged POC of 105

crores attached and confirmed by the Adjudicating Authority. The said

attachment has been challenged before the Appellate Tribunal. Thus,

the material relied upon by the ED is inadmissible as the whole case of

the ED essentially stems upon the statements made by certain co-

accused persons under Section 50 of the PMLA and certain whatsapp

chats collected by the IT department during the course of raids

conducted in the year 2020. It is contended that the applicant satisfies

the twin conditions under Section 45 of the pMLa. Section 45 of the

PMLA is not even applicable in the instant case given the prolonged

period of incarceration of the applicant. He has placed his reliance in

the matter of Manish Sisodia Vs. ED, SLP Crl. No. 8781 of 2024,

wherein it has been held as under: On account of non-grant of bail even in straight
 forward open and shut cases, this Court is
 flooded with huge number of bail petitions
 thereby adding to the huge pendency. It is high
 time that the trial courts and the High Courts
 should recognize the principle that "bail is rule
 and jail is exception". 54. In the present case, in the ED matter as well
 as the CBI matter, 493 witnesses have been
 named. The case involves thousands of pages
 of documents and over a lakh pages of digitized
 documents. It is thus clear that there is not even
 the remotest possibility of the trial being
 concluded in the near future. In our view,
 keeping the appellant behind the bars for an
 unlimited period of time in the hope of speedy
 completion of trial would deprive his
 fundamental right to liberty under Article 21 of
 the Constitution. As observed time and again,
 the prolonged incarceration before being
 pronounced guilty of an offence should not be
 permitted to become punishment without trial." 34. In the matter of Vijay Nair Vs. Directorate of Enforcement SLP

Crl. Diary No. 22137 of 2024, it has been observed as under: 35. It is contended that the ED has relied entirely on the statements

of co-accused which are not substantive piece of evidence and the

prosecution cannot start with such evidence to establish a case. He has

relied upon the decision of Prem Prakash Vs. ED, SLP (Crl.) No. 5416

of 2024, wherein it has been held as under: 36. The applicant is not involved in the commission of or in any

activity relating to the alleged offences. Most of the statements relied

upon by the ED have been retracted by those individuals admitting to

the fact that the same were extracted by means of coercion and 29 threats. It is contended that the investigation conducted by the ED was

in a pick and choose manner. The manner in which the investigation

has been carried out by the ED in a selective and pick and choose

manner in its investigation clearly shows the targeted nature of the

investigation conducted by it. He submits that no attachment of property

against accused persons ie. the distillers despite quantifying the same

at over 238 crores. No proceedings under Section 8 of the PC Act was

initiated against them. The Excise Officers against who there is

incriminating material have not been made accused. 37. It is next contended that the applicant satisfies the triple test for

grant of bail. The applicant is neither a flight risk nor would influence

any witness or tamper with any evidence. The entire material is

documentary and is in the custody of the Court. The applicant does not

have the propensity to evade the process of law and no such allegation

has been made against the applicant seeking police/judicial custody.

He contended that in catena of judgments including the recent one of P.Chidambaram Vs. CBI 2020 13 SCC 337, that while dealing with the

bail application it is not in dispute that 'three factors' or the 'triple test'

must be seen /satisfied viz. (I) flight risk; (ii) likelihood of tampering with

evidence and (iii) likelihood of influencing witnesses. Pertinently all the

three facts are satisfied by the applicant and as such the applicant may

be granted bail. 38. Dr.Sourabh Pandey, in reply to the above contentions of the

learned counsel for the applicant, it is submitted by learned counsel for

the respondent/ED that that applicant acted as strongman who ran the

liquor syndicate for his political benefactors and in association with the 30 topmost bureaucrat Anil Tuteja. Both of them orchestrate the entire

liquor scam by using the vantage of Anil Tuteja (retired IAS). The

applicant posted officials of his choice in the Excise Department and

thus became the de facto Excise Minister. He ran the entire bribe

collection racket for Part-A, C and FL-10A license holders. He ran the

unprecedented scam of selling unaccounted illicit liquor from the State

run shops. The applicant through his political affiliations and with the

active support of Anil Tuteja, Arun Pati Tripathi and Niranjan Das,

controlled all the limbs of liquor trade to run the manufacture and sale

of illicit country liquor that too, from State run shops. All the accused

persons in the Chhattisgarh Liquor scam ran this racket for 2 years

selling more than 40 lakh cases of illicit liquor with active connivance of

distillers, hologram makers, bottle suppliers, transporters, shop

keepers, cash collection agencies, District Excise officials etc. without

registration of even a single FIR. This racket came to end only after the

raids by the Income Tax Department in June 2022 and subsequent

action by answering respondent ie. Enforcement directorate. The

audacity and brazeness of the scam and losses to Chhattisgarh

Exchequer are staggering. This shows that such a same of selling

illegal liquor from State run shops can be run only with the concurrence

and the active support of then biggest political authority of the State of

Chhattisgarh. The applicant apart from being responsible for the

acquisition of proceeds of crime worth more than 2100 crores, was also

responsible for layering the proceeds of crime and concealing them. 39. The applicant is responsible for selecting and hiring ground level

members of the liquor syndicate. He himself is affiliated with political

outfit and is the brother of Aijaz Dhebar (Mayor of Raipur). The 31 applicant is the one who sponsored the name of co-accused Arunpati

Tripathi as the Managing Director, CSMCL to Anil Tuteja. He along with

his associates Arvind Singh and Vikas Agarwal @ Subbu ensured

strong control over the scheme of illegal commission from collection in

the sale of liquor. The applicant used to provide logistical support, cash

collection and cash delivery services for the syndicate. There are

various whatsapp chats between the applicant and Vikas Agrawal @

Subbu and Arvind Singh related to the commission collected and sale

of Part-B liquor. 40. Further allegation against the applicant is that the applicant

ensured the commission paid by the liquor suppliers timely. Apart from

collecting commission on sale of accounted liquor (Part-A) and sale of

unaccounted liquor (Part-B) also charged quid pro quo bribes from

main distillers so that they can form a cartel and divide the entire

market share among themselves. This was known as Part C earnings.

This was an annual commission which was paid the main distillers for

getting fixed share in the market purchase of CSMCL. Kedia Group got

52% share, Bhatia Group got 30% and Welcome Group go 18% share

which was paid on percentage basis of the market share allotted to

them. 41. From the investigation conducted by the respondent/Agency it

was also revealed that the role of M/s. AJS Agro Pvt. Ltd. Which is

associated with the applicant was used by the applicant to earn

commission in banking channel. As part of the modus operandi the

distillers purchased grians through the M/s. AJS Agro Trade Pvt. Ltd.

and commission was paid to the applicant. This was done to generate 32 accounted money which could be used to make more investments and

large cash could be layered into those deals and was in continuous

process of acquiring new proceeds of crime and layering and

concealing the earned ill gotten cash. 42. It is alleged that the applicant and co-accused Anil Tuteja were

receiving almost 15% of the revenue generated by the syndicate out of

the sale of Part-B liquor. Asper the investigation conducted so far, a

total of Rs. 40.67 lac cases of Part-B liquor have been found to be

supplied to syndicate which implied that amount of Rs. 120 crores was

earned illegally out of the sale of unaccounted liquor. Digital evidences

show the payments to the tune of Rs. 14.41 crores from the present

applicant and therefore it can be held that Rs. 105 crores out of the sale

proceeds of Part-B liquor was lying with the applicant. The applicant

utilized the proceeds of crime in acquiring assets in his name and in the

name of his family members. 43. It is contended by the counsel for the respondent that the

mandatory twin conditions of Section 45 of the PMLA are not being

satisfied and one of the conditions prescribed by the Section pertains to

a finding by the court that the accused is not guilty of the offence of

Money Laundering an that he is not likely to commit any offence while

on bail to this, it is submitted that the possibility of accused being "not

guilty of the offence of money laundering" is highly unlikely. In fact the

applicant was evading summons under Section 50 of the PMLA in

ECIR/RPZO/11/2022 and therefore the previous actions of the applicant

has not been conducive with the due process of law. In the backdrop

of these circumstances, it cannot be ruled that the applicant if released 33 of bail, repeat his previous actions again. It is submitted that in the light

of judgment dated 22.07.2022 of the Apex Court in Vijay Madanlal

Choudhary & Others Vs. Union of India and Others , SLP (Crl.) No.

4634 of 2014, it is no longer res integra that the twin conditions under Section 45 of the PMLA have to be met before grant of bail. Relevant

observation is as under: However, in paragraph 54, the declaration is only
 in respect of further (two) conditions for release
 on bail as contained in Section 45(1) , being
 unconstitutional as the same violated Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. Be that as it may,
 nothing would remain in that observation or for
 that matter, the declaration as the defect in the
 provision [ Section 45(1) ], as existed then, and
 noticed by this Court has been cured by the
 Parliament by enacting amendment Act 13 of
 2018 which has come into force with effect from
 19.4.2018. We, therefore, confined ourselves to
 the challenge to the twin conditions in the
 provision, as it stands to this date post
 amendment of 2018 and which, on analysis of the
 decisions referred to above dealing with
 concerned enactments having similar twin
 conditions as valid, we must reject the challenge.
 Instead, we hold that the provision in the form of Section 45 of the 2002 Act, as applicable post
 amendment of 2018, is reasonable and has direct
 nexus with the purposes and objects 642 Supra
 at Footnote No.3450 sought to be achieved by
 the 2002 Act to combat the menace of money- laundering having transnational consequences
 including impacting the financial systems and
 sovereignty and integrity of the countries." 44. Further, in Sajjan Kumar Vs. Directorate of Enforcement , 2022

SCC Online Del. 1769, it has been held that: 45. Learned counsel for the respondent submits that the applicant

applied for bail in ACB/EOW case before this Court vide M.Cr.C. No.

3455/2024 on medical condition and was granted bail. However, it was

challenged by the State of CG before the Apex Court vide SLP (Crl) No.

9395/2024 and it was ordered that independent medical scrutiny of the

applicant be conducted at AIIMS Raipur and no substantial medical

issues were found with the applicant. 46. He next contended that the applicant is suffering from long

incarceration to which it has been stated that the applicant has been

arrested in the present case on 08.08.2024 and he has been arraigned

as an accused in the Prosecution Complaint dated 15.10.2024 filed by

the ED. The applicant has to satisfy the conditions provided in Section

45 of the PMLA prior to grant of bail. That looking into the period of

custody, it seems that the applicant does not qualify the conditions

mentioned in Section 436-A of the Cr.P.C, and cannot take the benefit

under the said Section. 47. Reply to the next submission of the counsel for the applicant that

there is long delay in trial is misconceived and denied. It is submitted

that the PMLA Court, Raipur has taken the cognizance of all the PCs

dated 19.06.2024, 20.08.2024 and 5.10.2024 and the trial has

commenced. ED had demonstrated the modus operandi adopted by the 35 applicant for commission of offence of money laundering and

investigation against the applicant is complete but the investigation in

money trial and identification of remaining proceeds of crime and the

persons involved therein is still going on. He submits that the trial in the

PMLA is at the appearance stage and next date of hearing is scheduled

for 22.03.2025. He contended that the investigation is going on and the

Special Court has issued summons to the accused after taking

cognizance upon the prosecution complaint and 35 witnesses in the

Prosecution Complaint has been filed by the ED. It is also contended

that there is no iota of doubt that the Right to Speedy Trial is a

foundational facet of the The Right to life and Personal Liberty given

under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. However, if the accused is

enlarged on bail, then being a very influential person there would be a

chance that he would induce the witnesses and tamper with the

evidences and the trial would further get delayed. Therefore to ensure

the fundamental right to speedy trial, the applicant may not be granted

bail. 48. Next contention of the learned counsel for the respondent/ED is

that the applicant was arrested in two different ECIRs ie.

ECIR/RPZO/11/2022 and ECIR/RPZO/04/2024 and it is within the

ambit of law. It is submitted that the applicant had filed SLP No.

12153/2024 against the order dated 20.08.2024 in Cr.M.P. No.

860/2024 and 1186/2024 of this Court wherein the applicant had raised

allegation of double arrest, illegality of the ECIRs and malafide

investigation but since there is no merit in the averment and not

sustainable in the eye of law, he withdrew the petition on 6.12.2024. 36 49. Learned counsel for the respondent next contended that from the

conduct of the applicant,it appears that he has been trying to delay the

proceedings before the agency as well as before the court. In the

matter of Pankaj Grover Vs. ED, Criminal Misc. Anticipatory Bail

application under Section 438 Cr.P.C. No. 7661 of 2021, it has

clearly been held that the accused in economic offences/PMLA cases

are in possession of huge proceeds of crime and may use those to

influence witnesses. It has also been held that since such offences are

committed mostly be influential persons, there is high likelihood of their

using influence to tamper with the evidence and influence witnesses.

Relevant observation of the court is as follows:is as under: 50. Thus, it is submitted by the learned counsel for the respondent

that there is a high likelihood that the applicant if released on bail might

attempt to frustrate the present proceedings by influencing witnesses or

tampering with crucial evidences. Therefore in the present case, which

pertains to the offence of money laundering to the tune of more than R.

2100 crores should not be granted bail. In catena of judgments, it has

been held by the Court that economic offences constitute a separate

class of offence and bail should normally not be granted in such cases.

In Mohd. Arif Vs. ED 2020 SCC OnLine Ori. 544, it has been

described that the impact of the offence of Money laundering has

called the money laundering as an act of financial terrorism not only

posing a serious threat to the financial system of the country but also to

the integrity and sovereignty of a nation and reiterated the view of the

Apex Court of denial of bail in cases of economic offences. Relevant

observation is as under: 51. The economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be

visited with different approach, therefore in Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy

Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation ; (2013) 7 SCC 439, wherein

Hon'ble the Apex Court in paragraphs 34 & 35 has held as under:- 52. Furthermore, in the matter of State of Gujarat Vs. Mohanlal

Jitamalji Porwal & Others, (1987) 2 SCC 364, it has been specifically

held that : 53. In view of the above legal grounds, it is submitted by the learned

counsel for the respondent that the bail application filed on behalf of the

applicant may be dismissed. Learned counsel for the respondent

further submits that the role of the applicant in the present case

established the guilt of the applicant in the commission of the offence

of money laundering. It is also reiterated that satisfaction of triple test is

not sufficient for persons arrested under PMLA, 2002 as this triple test

stage will come when the applicant satisfy the twin conditions given 40 under the Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002. The Apex Court in the case of Gudikanti Narasimhulu and Others Vs. Public Prosecutor, High Court of Andhra Pradesh (1978) 1 SCC 240, has observed that the

objective to keep a person in judicial custody pending trial or disposal of

an appeal is to secure the attendance of the prisoner at trial. Moreover,

he submits that the delay in trial is no ground for bail keeping in view

the fact that the ED is working in a timely manner as per the due

process of law. The Special Court had issued summons to the accused

after taking cognizance upon the Prosecution Complaint. There is no

iota of doubt that the Right to Speedy Trial is a foundational facet of the

Right to Life and Personal Liberty given under Article 21 of the

Constitution of India. However, if the accused be enlarged on bail, then

being such a influential person, there would be a chance that he would

induce the witnesses and tamper with the evidence and consequently,

the trial would further get delayed. Therefore to ensure/secure the

fundamental right to speedy trial of the applicant he may not be

granted bail. In the matter of State of Bihar Vs. Amit Kumar (2017) 13

SCC 751, the Apex Court has held that : 54. It is next contended by the learned counsel for the respondent

that the applicant was arrested in a completely legal manner under Section 19 of the PMLA. The claim of the applicant that he was

arrested twice, to this it is submitted that the applicant was arrested in

two different ECIRs. Oit is submitted that the applicant filed application

before this Court wherein he has also alleged about the same however,

the same was dismissed by the Division Bench vide its order dated

23.08.2024 in Cr.M.P. No. 2276/2024 holding that: 55. It is further submitted that this Court after considering the facts

and circumstances of the present case has passed the order wherein

various facts were challenged. Relevant extracts are as under: 56. Further, Apex Court in the case of State of Orissa Vs.

Mahimandanda Mishra 2018 (10) SCC 516 arising out of Criminal

Appeal No. 1175 of 2018 while referring to Anil Kumar Yadav Vs.

State (NCT) of Delhi , 2017 has stated that the court must not go into

the merits of the case while considering the bail applications. Relevant

portion is as under: 57. It is contended that the proceeds of crime to the tune of about

105 crores was attached and the same has been confirmed by the

Adjudicating Authority vide order dated 7.10.2024 in OC No. 2318/2024.

It is submitted that detailed modus operandi used by the applicant for

generation and use of proceeds of crime is mentioned in the

Prosecution Complaint dated 5.10.2024 along with money trial 44 investigation. It is further submitted that the statements were recorded

without any threat, fear, force or coercion and under CCTV surveillance.

From the evidence it is clear that the applicant is involved in the

Chhattisgarh Liquor Scam case. The fact that there is no recovery of

unaccounted money, incriminating material, counterfeit holograms etc.

from the applicant, to this it is submitted that there are multiple

properties belonging to the applicant which are found to be proceeds of

crime and hence attached. The seizure made by ACB/EOW of half burnt

counterfeit holograms from the premises are linked to the applicant. 58. Further contention of the learned counsel for the respondent is that

there are 3 prosecution complaints filed till date and whom to arrest and

when to arrest are sole prerogative of investigating agency which are

determined on the basis of specific circumstances of each case and are

done only in the interest of concluding the investigation with optimum

usage of resources and within the reasonable time frame. Lastly, it has

been contended by the learned counsel for the respondent that

conditions of triple test are in addition to the twin conditions mentioned

in Section 45 of the PMLA. It is submitted that the applicant has been an

accused in the money laundering offence and the twin conditions have

not been satisfied by the applicant. The respondent has substantive

evidences which will prove the guilt of the accused in the trial and

therefore it the applicant be released on bail at this stage, there are high

chances that the accused will tamper with the evidence and influence

the witnesses. ANALYSIS 59. Heard learned counsel for the parties at length and perused the 45 records as well as the documents annexed with utmost circumspection. 60. In the instant case, there are nearly 70 accused persons while

charge sheet has only been filed against 11 persons. There are 457

witnesses in the scheduled offence and the trial is not likely to conclude

in the near future. Section 45(1) of the PMLA, reverses the presumption

of innocence at the stage of bail as an accused. According to him, the

accused at this stage can never show that he is not guilty. It is also

maintained that these are disproportionate and excessive conditions for

a bail. The twin condition is in violation of Article 21 of the Constitution

by virtue of the nature of the offence under PMLA. It is stated that

presumption of innocence is a cardinal principle of Indian criminal

jurisprudence. 61. Prima facie, it appears that the applicant was involved in the

criminal acts of the syndicate and is in possession of the proceeds of

crime and that he received commission from the liquor suppliers. The

applicant acted as a strongman who ran the liquor syndicate for his

political benefactors in association with the topmost bureaucrat Anil

Tuteja. The applicant ran the entire bribe collection racket for Part-A,C

and FL-10A license Holders and the unprecedented scam of selling

unaccounted liquor from the State run shops. This apart, he was

responsible for acquisition of process of crime and concealing them. 62. The Apex Court has held that the power of ED to arrest must be

based on objective and fair consideration of material against a person.

Under the PMLA, ED officers can arrest a person if they have reasons

to believe based on the material in their possession that the individual 46 is guilty. The provision for bail under Section 45 of PMLA lays down

two essentials which are to be fulfilled for grant of bail. These

conditions are called the 'twin conditions'. The two conditions that are

to be established are that firstly, there are reasonable grounds for

believing that the accused is not guilty of such offence and secondly,

the accused is not likely to commit an offence while on bail. 63. In Nikesh Tarachand Shah Vs. Union of India (Tarachand),

the Apex Court decided on the constitutionality of section 45 of PMLA,

2002 and the twin-conditions of bail attached to it. It held the same to

be unconstitutional in the light of article 21 of the Constitution which

stipulates for "no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty

except according to the procedure established by the law"; essentially

holding that constitutional provisions prevail over laws such as PMLA.

In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary Vs. Union of India (Vijay Madanlal) case

of 2022, three judge bench of the Supreme Court decided on the

constitutionality of various provisions of PMLA including section 45 , as

revived in 2018. The court arrived at the conclusion that even though

the provision is very stringent and that it goes against the principle of

bail being a rule, it is perfectly valid. 64. The inference from this verdict leads us to the fact that the court

viewed section 45 of PMLA to be a provision that aims to achieve the

purpose of the legislation; that is, to prevent the serious crime of money

laundering. Essentially, the court views this provision from a narrow

lens of 'seriousness of the crime' rather than the wider constitutional

validity. Though it is within the power of the court to deem a provision

unconstitutional through judicial review, it can be inferred that the 47 legislature was dissatisfied with the order. The amendment emphasized

on the point that the bail conditions should be followed with uniformity

for all offences. The legislature intends to follow a zero-tolerance policy

towards money laundering. This is pertinently so because of the fact

that offences pertaining to money laundering are deemed to be of high

seriousness besides being complex offences that involve a threat not

only to the financial institutions but also to the sovereignty and integrity

of the nation as enunciated in the statement of objects and reasons of

the Act itself. 65. It is true that money laundering that is connected to terror

financing and other such serious offences ought to be treated with great

caution and stringency but there are offences which are not as serious

as the former. While the fight against terror funding is a step in the right

direction by the legislature, there are several cases where the rights of

the accused are being violated due to the actions of a few outliers. 66. There exists a need to move from the current one-size-fits-all

approach towards an approach that underscores the differences

between the offences on the basis of their gravity and seriousness. The

SC, in the case P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement of 2019,

stated that in determining whether to grant bail both the seriousness of

the crime, and the severity of the punishment are to be taken into

account. In the case, bail was granted on the following grounds - firstly,

the allegations against the accused were not severe; secondly,

possibility of the accused tampering with evidence was low; and thirdly,

humanitarian grounds like the health of the accused were considered. 48 67. A provision like section 45 , being as rigid as it is, does not allow

for such an analysis. In the interest of upholding the fundamental rights

of the citizens, the legislature must relax the provision to provide wiggle

room to the courts to determine bail on a more case-to-case basis.

This would prevent minor bail cases reaching the apex court as the

lower courts are hesitant to oppose the inflexible provision.

Nevertheless, the court should also recognize the legislature's wariness

towards money laundering and pass orders such that it balances

caution with liberty. 68. A balanced approach which harmonizes judicial interpretations

and legislative intent must be adopted without compromising on justice,

fairness and liberty. The balance can be achieved by undertaking

thorough research for collocation or stratification of money laundering

offences based on their gravity and seriousness. The court has to rely

on a preliminary assessment of merits, without a deep dive into the

evidence, balancing considerations of potential flight risk, and ensuring

a separate evaluation from the final trial outcome. 69. However, the Apex Court has held that the power of ED to arrest

must be based on objective and fair consideration of material against a

person. Under the PMLA, ED officers can arrest a person if they have

reasons to believe based on the material in their possession that the

individual is guilty. It has been held by the Apex Court that PMLA

allowed arrests on the subjective opinion of ED officer, the court said

an officer's "reasons to believe" that a person was guilty an deserved

arrest should not be based on mere suspicion. "Suspicion requires a

lower degree of satisfaction and does not amount to belief. Belief is 49 beyond speculation or doubt.... Existence and validity of the 'reasons

to believe' goes to the root of the power to arrest. The subjective

opinion of the arresting officer must be founded and based upon fair

and objective consideration of the material, as available with them on

the date of arrest. 70. The judiciary's interpretative role in shaping due process within the

PMLA represents a significant stride. Emphasizing the written

communication of arrest grounds is vital for transparency and

accountability. However, this positive development raises practical

questions for the ED. The nuanced compromise between oral

communication and subsequent provision of written grounds reflects the

judiciary's understanding of law enforcement challenges. 71. An analysis of section 19 of the PMLA unveils a delicate interplay

between legal principles, enforcement challenges, and evolving due

process standards. The judiciary's commitment to balancing prompt

law enforcement with the protection of individual rights, particularly the

right to receive timely notification of arrest grounds, not only adds

value but also amplifies the ongoing conversation about the equitable

consideration of security and justice in the context of any crime,

whether financial or otherwise. On perusal of the records, it is found

that the ED has shown the reason to believe that the applicant is guilty

of the proceeds of crime. On the basis of statements recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA however, retraction statement is made by the

co-accused persons namely Arun Pati Tripathi, Nitesh Purohit and

Arvind Singh. 72. The confessional statement of a co-accused under Section 50 of

the PMLA is otherwise, not a substantive piece of evidence and can be

used only for the purpose of corroboration in support of other evidence

to impart assurance to the Court in arriving at a conclusion of guilt.It is

expedient for this Court to extract Section 45 of the PML Act, 2002,

which reads as under:- (i) the Director; or (ii) any officer of the Central Government or a State
 Government authorised in writing in this behalf by
 the Central Government by a general or special
 order made in this behalf by that Government. [(1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in the 51 Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), or
 any other provision of this Act, no police officer shall
 investigate into an offence under this Act unless
 specifically authorized, by the Central Government
 by a general or special order, and, subject to such
 conditions as may be prescribed.]

 (2) The limitation on granting of bail specified in [* *
 *]

 sub-section (1) is in addition to the limitations under
 the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974) or
 any other law for the time being in force on granting
 of bail." 73. The Apex Court in the matter of Directorate of Enforcement Vs.

Aditya Tripathi (Criminal Appeal No. 1401/2023) decided on

12.05.2023 has held as under:- [(1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), or
any other provision of this Act, no police officer
shall investigate into an offence under this Act
unless specifically authorized, by the Central
Government by a general or special order, and,
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.]
(2) The limitation on granting of bail specified in [*
* *] sub-section (1) is in addition to the limitations
under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of
1974) or any other law for the time being in force
on granting of bail." By the impugned judgment(s)
and order(s) and while granting bail, the High
Court has not considered the rigour of Section 45 of the PML Act, 2002he Supreme Court on July
12 held that the power to arrest under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) 53 cannot be exercised on the "whims and fancies" 74. The Apex Court has held that the power to arrest under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cannot be exercised on

the "whims and fancies" of Directorate of Enforcement (ED) officers.

The court wondered if the ED even had a consistent, uniform and

"one-rule-for-all" policy on when they should arrest people. It said the

ED's power to arrest must be based on objective and fair consideration

of material against the accused. CONCLUSION 75. Thus, from the documents and submissions of the counsel for the

applicant, it appears that the applicant had actively participated in the

commission of predicate offence; had acquired proceeds of crime and

had substantial share in proceeds of unaccounted liquor cannot be

ignored. The investigation against 11 persons including the applicant

is complete and three prosecution complaints against 11 accused

persons spanning to nearly 20,000 pages with over 30 witnesses and 55 250 documents have been filed by the investigating agency and the

investigation is going on. Despite the alleged huge scam, prosecution

complaint has been filed against 11 persons. Even as per allegations

made in the complaint filed by the ED, role of other individuals have

also been surfaced.+There is no attachment of property

againstaccused persons being distillers despite quantifying the same

at over 200 crores and no proceedings under Section 8 of the PC Act

has been initiated against them. Though it is true that the applicant has

suffered long period of incarceration and the trial has not yet

commenced and is not likely to conclude but the right to bail in cases

of delay, coupled with incarceration for a long period, depending on the

nature of the allegations, should be read into Section 439 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure and Section 45 of the PML Act. there is

substantial material indicating a strong nexus between the applicant

and the other accused persons in the commission of the crime. There

were documents and evidences that reflected the involvement of the

applicant who is the key conspirator and beneficiary from the said

scam. Records show that the grounds of arrest was communicated to

the applicant by the ED in writing. Thus, without giving any observation

as to whether the statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA

are admissible in evidence, but their thorough consideration should be

reserved for the trial court. It emphasized that at the bail stage, these

statements can be examined to ascertain whether there are

reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant is not guilty. There is

a difference between the admissibility of a statement of an accused

recorded under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act

(PMLA) and its evidentiary value. 76. In view of the aforesaid, it can be foreseen that while the High

Court in the specific facts and circumstances (where there was prima

facie material against the petitioner) came to the conclusion that mere

possession of proceeds of crime and upholding such proceeds as

untainted would be sufficient to invoke the provisions of PMLA,

however, the ratio of the said judgment may have the potential to have

an unintended fallout in a different set of facts. Depending on the facts

of the case, such an interpretation may include persons who might

have no genuine knowledge and connection with the predicate offence

and/ or the tainted money circulated by the actual accused persons

and may have to go through the rigours of trial for no fault. A balanced

pragmatic interpretation/ view of the provisions of the Act would help in

minimizing instances where there is an element of no genuine/ actual

knowledge. the Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal (supra) judgment

interprets Section 3 in a manner to conclude that knowledge may not

be a necessary ingredient, however, the said view may not be entirely

correct in certain circumstances. Mens rea is a critical ingredient for

any criminal offence and therefore requires its presence in any action

or consequence which arises out of or in relation to an offence. It is

important that to prosecute someone for mere possession of purported

proceeds of crime, there should be an equal burden on the

prosecution to prove at least a prima facie link to the proceeds of

crime as defined under the Act. 77. The Supreme Court have further gone on to state that property

indirectly obtained would mean property derived or obtained from the

sale proceeds or in lieu of or in exchange of the "property" directly 57 derived or obtained as a result of criminal activity relating to a

scheduled offence. It was further held that the Explanation added in

2019 does not travel beyond the intent of tracking and reaching up to

the property derived or obtained directly or indirectly as a result of

criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence and the explanation is

only a clarification and not to increase the width of the main definition

"proceeds of crime". It was further stated that every crime property

need not be termed as "proceeds of crime" but the converse may be

true. It was held that if some other property is purchased or derived

from the "proceeds of crime" then even such subsequently acquired

property must be regarded as tainted property and actionable under

the PMLA. 78. Money laundering is understood to encompass a scenario in

which an individual commits an offense outlined in the PMLA

schedule, leading to the generation of property. This property

subsequently qualifies as the proceeds of the crime. Furthermore, the

individual engaged in activities such as concealment, possession, or

utilization of said proceeds of crime, shall be deemed to have

committed the offense of money laundering. 79. Therefore, the quantification of the Proceeds of Crime involves a

multifaceted approach. It begins with the identification of initial assets

stemming from criminal activity, subsequently encompassing any

assets obtained through these initial proceeds. 80. It is thus held that in the investigation conducted during the

predicate offence, the applicant being the orchestrator of the entire

liquor scam in the State of CG, was involved in money laundering and 58 proceeds of crime along with other co-accused therefore, the

 entitlement of the applicant to get bail under PMLA, 2002, is not

 acceptable and considering the entirety of the matter, this Court is of

 the opinion that the applicant is unable to satisfy twin conditions for

 grant of bail under Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002, as such, it is not a fit

 case for grant of bail to the applicant for the reasons mentioned

 hereinabove. 81. Accordingly, the prayer for bail made by the applicant under

 Section 483 of the Bhartiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 ('BNSS')

 read with Section 45 of the PMLA, for the alleged offence punishable

 under Sections 3 & 4 of the PMLA, 2002 is hereby rejected. Sd/- (Arvind Kumar Verma)
 Judge Digitally signed by SUGUNA SUGUNA DUBEY
DUBEY Date: