1. This Criminal Petition, u/Secs.480 & 483 of BNSS, has been filed by the
petitioner/A3, seeking regular bail, in Crime No.287/2024 of Mahila Police
Station, registered for the offences punishable u/Secs.70(1), 77, 351(2), 69
and 75(1) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (for short, 'BNS') and Section
67-A of Information Technology Act, 2000 (for short, 'I.T.Act'). 2. Case of the prosecution, in brief is that on 18.11.2024 at about 10.30
pm, the defacto complainant alleged that A1 developed intimacy with her by 2 promising love and marriage. On 10.08.2024 at Kambalakonda park, A1
forcefully had sexual intercourse with her, deceitfully reiterating his promise of
marriage. On 13.08.2024 at Krishna Gardens, Dabagardens, A1 took her to
the rented room of his friend/A4. A1 again forcibly engaged in sexual
intercourse with her. Later, friends of A1 i.e, A2 to A4 came there and showed
her private videos captured earlier and threatened to share them publicly if
she resisted. Under the duress, all four accused sexually exploited her. From
that time, the accused continuously harassed and tortured her for sexual
favours. Unable to bear the harassment, she attempted to commit suicide on
18.11.2024 at 4.00 am and her father discovered her in distress and she
disclosed the ordeal. Basing on the report given by the defacto complainant,
the present case has been registered against the accused. During the course
of investigation, arrested the petitioner on 20.11.2024. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner asserts that the petitioner is
innocent of all charges, particularly those related to rape or sexual intercourse;
the police investigation is complete and the charge sheet is filed. Citing the
Hon'ble Supreme Court's principle that "bail is the rule, jail is an exception," 4. On the other hand, the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor representing
the State opposes the grant of bail to the petitioner and submits that the victim
has revealed extremely serious allegations against the petitioner to the effect
that himself along with other persons had forcible sexual intercourse with the
victim and lastly, the delay in lodging the report was on account of the fact that
the victim was black mailed by the accused persons that they would make her
videos being shared publicly, thereby damaging her reputation. 5. I have heard both sides. Learned counsel on both sides reiterated their
submissions, which are on par with the contentions presented in the petition
and the report. 6. In Masroor V. State of U.P.1 , a Division Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court observed as follows: 7. Before adverting to the merits of the case, this Court would like to clarify
that while the filing of a charge sheet is a significant factor in granting bail, it is
not the sole criterion to be considered. This must be evaluated in conjunction
with the facts and circumstances of the case at hand. In the present matter,
although the charge sheet has been filed, the defacto complainant's
statements, as recorded, specifically highlight the role played by the petitioner
in the commission of the alleged offence. The petitioner has been assigned
the role of blackmailing the victim along with other accused and had forcible
sexual intercourse with her. Specifically, the petitioner and other accused
persons are alleged to have coerced the defacto complainant into engaging in
physical relations. 8. The involvement of the petitioner/A3, given the present circumstances,
raises significant concerns. Notably, there is no denial of the fact that the
petitioner/A3 was known to the other accused persons named in the F.I.R.,
and the charge sheet and in any event, the same is very much matter of trial.
At this stage, there is no possible reason or explanation given by the
petitioner/A3 for his involvement with the other co-accused in the commission
of the alleged offence. (2009) 14 SCC 286 4 9. The prosecution's case is that on 10.8.2024, A1 took the defacto
complainant to Kambalakonda park, where he forcibly had sexual intercourse
with her under the pretext of marriage; subsequently, on 13.08.2024, A1 took
the rented room of A4 at Krishna gardens, and again forcibly participated in
sexual intercourse; during the incident of sex of victim and A1, A2 had secretly
recorded the sexual act; later, A2 along with this petitioner and A4 used the
video to blackmail the defacto complainant and repeatedly called her through
voice and whatsapp, threatening to post it on social media unless she
consents with their sexual demands; under the fear of threats by this petitioner
and other accused, victim was forced to have sex with A2 to A4 against her
will and consent and thereby, they committed the Gang Rape; on 18.11.2024,
the victim attempted to commit suicide at 4.00 hours and the victim's father
intervened and rescued her; upon learning of her ordeal, the victim's father
accompanied the victim to the II Town Police Station, where victim lodged a
report. 10. As seen from the record, during the arrest, cell phones were seized
from the accused. The investigation officer received the Call Detail Records
(CDRs) for the mobile numbers of victim, A1 to A4 and the tower locations of
the complainant and the accused were traced at the scene of offence and the
medical report shows that there is no evidence of recent sexual intercourse,
but possibility of sexual assault cannot be ruled out. It is important to note that
the complainant/victim and A1 to A3 are the students of law college and the
victim is presently in her third year of study and A1 to A3 are in final year of
the LLB course and A4 is the A1's friend; A1 coerced the complainant into
engaging in sexual acts with A2 to A4; following the incident, the accused
persons continued to harass the complainant, repeatedly calling her and
demanding sex, threatening to share the compromising video; further A1 also
pressured her to participate in sexual acts with his friends; fearing the public 5 exposure of the video, the victim remained silent in a state of despair,
attempted to take her own life by hanging herself in a bed room. 11. The offence of rape is punishable by rigorous imprisonment for at least
ten years, extendable to life imprisonment with a fine. Gang rape carries
twenty years' rigorous imprisonment, extendable to life imprisonment with a
fine. The offence alleged to have been committed by the petitioner is grave in
nature. In fact, rape cannot be considered as a mere physical assault. In an
occurrence of this type, the resistance from the victim cannot be expected,
there is no allegation that the victim was inimical or was acting against the
instigation of somebody else. Therefore, the cases relating to granting of bail
in offences of rape are required to be approached differently, as granting of
bail in such cases by adopting a liberal approach would be against the interest
of the society. 12. It is not necessary now to go into detail about the correctness or
otherwise of the allegations made against the accused as this is a subject
matter to be dealt with by the trial judge. The period of incarceration by itself
would not entitle the petitioner/accused to be enlarged on bail. 13. In view of above, considering cumulative effect of entire facts and
circumstances, without commenting upon the merits of the evidence and
keeping in view the principles laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court and other
factors, like grievance of the offences including the severity of the punishment,
manner in which it has been committed and its impact on the society,
petitioner/A3 is not entitled for bail, at this stage. 14. For all the foregoing reasons, I do not find any merit in the petition and
the same is accordingly, dismissed. 15. It is explicitly clarified that the observations made in this Order are
preliminary and pertain solely to the decision on the present application
without indicating a stance on the case's merits. Miscellaneous applications pending, if any, shall stand closed. _____________________________
 JUSTICE T MALLIKARJUNA RAO
Date: 17.4.2025
RD 7 THE HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE T MALLIKARJUNA RAO

 CRIMINAL PETITION No.3866 of 2025
 Date: 17.4.2025

RD