1. By this petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the
 Constitution of India, the petitioner has challenged order
 dated 14th February, 2019 passed by the Arbitration
 Tribunal consisting of sole arbitrator (Hon'ble Mr. Justice Page 1 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT J.M. Panchal­ Former Judge, Supreme Court of India)
 whereby preliminary objections raised by the petitioner to
 decide as to whether the disputes between the parties is
 arbitrable or not is rejected. 2. Facts giving rise to this petition may be summarized as
 under : iii) Punjab Agro Industries Corpn Ltd v. Kewal
 Singh Dhillon reported in 2008(10) SCC 128,
 wherein it is held as under : iv) Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation Page 7 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT reported in 2019 SCC Online SC 358, wherein it is
 held as under : would include weeding­out arbitration clauses
 in agreements which indicate that the subject­
 matter is incapable of arbitration. A Division
 Bench of this Court, through one of the learned
 Judges, Kurian Joseph, J., has stated, in Duro
 Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd. , (2017) 9
 SCC 729, that the scope of Section 11(6A) is
 limited to the following: After the amendment, all that the
 courts need to see is whether an
 arbitration agreement exists-- nothing
 more, nothing less. The legislative
 policy and purpose is essentially to
 minimise the Court's intervention at
 the stage of appointing the arbitrator
 and this intention as incorporated in Section 11 (6­A) ought to be respected."" 18. Paragraph 36 then goes on to give certain
 well recognized examples of non­arbitrable
 disputes as follows: xxx 34. Insofar as the Transfer of Property Act or
 the Specific Relief Act , no such thing exists, as
 has been held by Olympus Superstructures
 (supra) and by Booz Allen (supra). xxx 37. Given the facts of this case and the fact that
 18 hearings have been held, the stay that has
 been granted to the arbitral proceedings by our
 order dated 13.08.2018 is lifted, and the
 proceedings may go on and culminate in an
 award. The award cannot be executed without
 applying to this Court. The appeal is disposed
 of accordingly." v) M/s. Mayavti Trading Pvt. Ltd v. Pradyuat Deb
 Burman (order dated 5th September, 2019 in Civil
 Appeal No.7023/2019), wherein it is held as under : vi) Duro Felguera SA v. Gangavaram Port Limited reported in (2017) 9 Supreme Court Cases 729,
 wherein it is held as under : (Emphasis Supplied)

 From a reading of Section 11(6A) , the intention
 of the legislature is crystal clear i.e. the Court
 should and need only look into one aspect­
 the existence of an arbitration agreement.
 What are the factors for deciding as to
 whether there is an arbitration agreement is
 the next question. The resolution to that is
 simple ­ it needs to be seen if the agreement
 contains a clause which provides for
 arbitration pertaining to the disputes which
 have arisen between the parties to the
 agreement. xxx 56. Having said that, this being one of the first Page 11 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT cases on Section 11(6A) of the 1996 Act before
 this Court, I feel it appropriate to briefly
 outline the scope and extent of the power of
 the High Court and the Supreme Court under Sections 11(6) and 11(6A) . 57. This Court in S.B.P & Co v. Patel
 Engineering Ltd and Another overruled Konkan
 Railway Corpn. Ltd. and others v. Mehul
 Construction Co. and Konkan Railway Corpn.
 Ltd. & another . v. Rani Construction Pvt. Ltd.
 to hold that the power to appoint an arbitrator
 under Section 11 is a judicial power and not a
 mere administrative function. The conclusion
 in the decision as summarized by
 Balasubramanyan, J. speaking for the
 majority reads as follows: (vii) Since an order passed by the Chief
 Justice of the High Court or by the
 designated Judge of that Court is a judicial
 order, an appeal will lie against that order
 only under Article 136 of the Constitution to
 the Supreme Court. (viii) There can be no appeal against an
 order of the Chief Justice of India or a
 Judge of the Supreme Court designated by
 him while entertaining an application
 under Section 11(6) of the Act. (ix) In a case where an Arbitral Tribunal Page 13 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT has been constituted by the parties without
 having recourse to Section 11(6) of the Act,
 the Arbitral Tribunal will have the
 jurisdiction to decide all matters as
 contemplated by Section 16 of the Act. (x) Since all were guided by the decision of
 this Court in Konkan Rly. Corpn. Ltd. v.
 Rani Construction (P) Ltd. and orders under Section 11(6) of the Act have been made
 based on the position adopted in that
 decision, we clarify that appointments of
 arbitrators or Arbitral Tribunals thus far
 made, are to be treated as valid, all
 objections being left to be decided under Section 16 of the Act. As and from this date,
 the position as adopted in this judgment
 will govern even pending applications
 under Section 11(6) of the Act. (xi) Where District Judges had been
 designated by the Chief Justice of the High
 Court under Section 11(6) of the Act, the
 appointment orders thus far made by them
 will be treated as valid; but applications if
 any pending before them as on this date
 will stand transferred, to be dealt with by
 the Chief Justice of the High Court
 concerned or a Judge of that Court
 designated by the Chief Justice. (xii) The decision in Konkan Rly. Corpn. Ltd.
 v. Rani Construction (P) Ltd is overruled." (Emphasis Supplied)

 xxx 59.The scope of the power under Section 11 (6) of
 the 1996 Act was considerably wide in view of the
 decisions in SBP and Co. (supra) and Boghara
 Polyfab (supra). This position continued till the
 amendment brought about in 2015. After the
 amendment, all that the Courts need to see is
 whether an arbitration agreement exists ­ nothing Page 14 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT more, nothing less. The legislative policy and
 purpose is essentially to minimize the Court's
 intervention at the stage of appointing the
 arbitrator and this intention as incorporated in Section 11 (6A) ought to be respected." vii) State of Rajasthan v. Lord Northbrook
 reported in 2019 SCC Online SCC 1117, wherein it is
 held as under : "60. Under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,
 the High Court having regard to the facts of the
 case has a discretion to entertain or not to
 entertain a writ petition. But the High Court has
 imposed upon itself certain restrictions; one of
 which is an effective and efficacious remedy
 available. When efficacious alternative remedy is
 available, the High Court would not normally
 exercise the jurisdiction. However, alternative
 remedy will not be a bar at least in three
 instances:­ (i) where writ petition is filed for enforcement of
 any of the fundamental rights; (ii) where there is a violation of the fundamental
 right or principles of natural justice; and (iii) where the orders or proceedings are wholly
 without jurisdiction or the vires of an Act is
 challenged; [vide Harbanslal Sahnia and Another v.
 Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd. and Others (2003) 2 SCC 107]. 61. Notwithstanding the availability of alternative
 remedy, having regard to the facts of the case, the
 High Court has a discretion to entertain or not to
 entertain a writ petition. But in the present case,
 while considering correctness of the
 communications/orders issued way back in 1987,
 the High Court should have taken into
 consideration the subsequent events viz., the
 judgment passed by the High Court of Delhi in
 Testamentary Case and the order passed by the Page 15 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT District Collector under Section 6 of the Act and
 the pendency of appeals before the High Court and
 Board of Revenue. Challenge to the initiation of
 the proceedings under the Rajasthan Escheats
 Regulation Act, 1956 is already a subject matter of
 appeal before the Board of Revenue. Based on the
 Will, whether the Trust has a right to claim the
 properties of Sh. Raja Sardar Singh is also a
 subject matter of appeal before the Delhi High
 Court. While so, exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the High
 Court ought not to have gone into the correctness
 of three notices issued on 03.07.1987, 22.07.1987
 and 03.08.1987 which themselves culminated into
 various final orders. The impugned order takes
 away the very foundation of the order passed by
 the District Collector which is subject matter of
 the appeal pending before the Board of Revenue.
 There are serious disputed questions of facts
 especially whether there was contravention of
 Proviso to Section 4 and in such view of the matter,
 the High Court ought not to have gone into the
 correctness of three communications/orders dated
 03.07.1987, 22.07.1987 and 03.08.1987. The High
 Court, in my considered view, ought to have
 directed the parties to work out the remedy before
 the competent court/authority. xxx 134. Where the jurisdiction of an authority
 depends upon a preliminary finding of fact, the
 High Court is entitled, in an application under Article 226 , to determine upon its own independent
 judgment, whether or not that finding is correct,
 as held by this Court in State of Madhya Pradesh &
 Ors. vs. Sardar D.K. Jadav reported in AIR 1968 SC
 1186 and Ujjambai vs. State of U.P. reported in
 AIR 1962 SC 1621. 135. I am unable to persuade myself to agree with
 my esteemed sister that the issuance of notices
 informing those interested in the properties left by
 late Raja Bahadur, that if they did not appear and
 produce documents, it would be presumed that
 the properties were lawaris, satisfies the Page 16 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT conditions precedent for initiation of proceedings
 under the Escheats Act . 136. The District Collector clearly erred in
 rejecting the claims of agnates on the ground that
 they had withdrawn their objections in the probate
 proceedings. Withdrawal of objections to the
 probate proceedings does not estop the agnates
 and/or cognates from claiming the property upon
 failure of the probate application. 137. As observed by my esteemed sister, under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the High
 Court, having regard to the facts of the case, has a
 discretion to entertain or not to entertain a writ
 petition. 138. The power of the High Court to issue
 prerogative writs is wide. The Constitution does
 not place any limitation on such power. However,
 the Courts have, through judicial
 pronouncements, evolved self imposed restrictions
 on the exercise of power by the writ Court. When
 an efficacious alternative remedy is available, the
 High Court does not normally exercise jurisdiction.
 However, when a writ petition has been
 entertained and kept pending for years, it would
 not be appropriate to reject the writ petition only
 on the ground of existence of an alternative
 remedy. 139. It would also be relevant to note that the
 remedy of appeal availed by the Trustees was
 against the order of the Collector passed in 2016
 almost two decades after the writ petition had
 been filed. The supervening circumstance of the
 order of the Collector and the appeal therefrom,
 would not in my view, justify the dismissal of the
 writ petition on the ground of existence of
 alternative remedy. 140. As noted by my esteemed sister, the writ
 petition filed in 1987 had been pending in the
 High Court for about three decades. Once the writ
 petition had been entertained and kept pending, it
 should not be rejected on the ground of existence
 of alternative remedy of appeal before the Board of Page 17 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Revenue. 141. In deciding the question of maintainability of
 a writ petition in view of existence of alternative
 remedy, this Court cannot forget that the power to
 issue prerogative writs under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India is plenary in nature. The
 High Court, having regard to the facts of the case,
 has discretion to entertain or not to entertain a
 writ petition. The existence or even invocation of
 alternative remedy has nothing to do with the
 jurisdiction of the writ court. Even if a party has
 already availed of the alternative remedy by
 invoking the appellate jurisdiction, as also the
 jurisdiction under Article 226 , the party could elect
 to prosecute proceedings under Article 226 for the
 same relief. 142. There are certain well­recognised exceptions
 where the bar of alternative remedy does not
 apply. Where the authority has acted without
 jurisdiction, the High Court should not refuse to
 exercise its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
 Constitution on the ground of an alternative
 remedy, as held by this Court, inter alia, in Kuntesh Gupta vs. Management of Hindu Kanya
 Mahavidyalaya, Sitapur, U.P. & Ors. reported in
 (1987) 4 SCC 525. Complete lack of jurisdiction of
 an authority to take the impugned action, as in
 this case, is always a good ground to entertain a
 writ petition. 143. Moreover, as held by this Court in Municipal
 Council, Khurai and Anr. vs. Kamal Kumar & Anr. reported in AIR 1965 SC 1321, M.G. Abrol, Addl. Collector of Customs, Bombay & Anr. vs. Shantilal
 Chhotelal & Co. reported in AIR 1966 SC 197 and
 in State of U.P and Others vs. Indian Hume Pipe Co.
 Ltd reported in (1977) 2 SCC 724, there is no rule
 of law that the High Court should not entertain a
 writ petition when an alternative remedy is
 available to a party. It is always a matter of
 discretion with the Court and if the discretion has
 been exercised by the High Court not
 unreasonably or perversely, it is settled practice of
 this Court not to interfere with the exercise of Page 18 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT discretion by the High Court. The High Court in
 the present case has entertained the writ petition
 and decided the question of law arising in it and in
 my opinion rightly. In my view, we would not be
 justified in interfering in our jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution to quash the order of
 the High Court, merely on the ground of existence
 of an alternative remedy. As held by this Court,
 inter alia, in Kanak vs. U.P. Avas Evam Vikas
 Parishad & Ors. reported in (2003) 7 SCC 693
 (701), once a writ petition is entertained, and the
 matter is argued at length on merit, it would be
 too late in the day to contend that the writ
 petitioner should avail the alternative remedy.
 144 The High Court has, in my view, rightly
 allowed the writ petition. This appeal is, in my
 view, liable to be dismissed." viii) Ameet Lalchand Shah and otrs.v. Rishabh
 Enterprises and ors. reported in AIR 2018 SC 3041,
 wherein it is held as under : includes non­signatory parties who can be referred
 to arbitration provided they satisfy the
 requirements of Sections 44 and 45 read with Schedule I of the Act . In para (73) of Chloro
 Controls, this Court held as under:­
 "73. A non­signatory or third party could be
 subjected to arbitration without their prior
 consent, but this would only be in exceptional
 cases. The court will examine these exceptions
 from the touchstone of direct relationship to the
 party signatory to the arbitration agreement,
 direct commonality of the subject­matter and
 the agreement between the parties being a
 composite transaction. The transaction should
 be of a composite nature where performance of
 the mother agreement may not be feasible
 without aid, execution and performance of the
 supplementary or ancillary agreements, for
 achieving the common object and collectively
 having bearing on the dispute. Besides all this,
 the court would have to examine whether a
 composite reference of such parties would serve
 the ends of justice. Once this exercise is
 completed and the court answers the same in
 the affirmative, the reference of even non­
 signatory parties would fall within the exception
 afore­discussed." (Underlining added) 21. In a case like the present one, though there
 are different agreements involving several parties,
 as discussed above, it is a single commercial
 project namely operating a 2 MWp Photovoltaic Page 20 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi,
 Uttar Pradesh. Commissioning of the Solar Plant,
 which is the commercial understanding between
 the parties and it has been effected through
 several agreements. The agreement - Equipment
 Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) for commissioning
 of the Solar Plant is the principal/main agreement.
 The two agreements of Rishabh with Juwi India:­ (i) Equipment and Material Supply Contract
 (01.02.2012); and (ii) Engineering, Installation and
 Commissioning Contract (01.02.2012) and the
 Rishabh's Sale and Purchase Agreement with
 Astonfield (05.03.2012) are ancillary agreements
 which led to the main purpose of commissioning
 the Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa,
 District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh by Dante Energy
 (Lessee). Even though, the Sale and Purchase
 Agreement (05.03.2012) between Rishabh and
 Astonfield does not contain arbitration clause, it is
 integrally connected with the commissioning of the
 Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, U.P.
 by Dante Energy. Juwi India, even though, not a
 party to the suit and even though, Astonfield and
 appellant No.1 - Ameet Lalchand Shah are not
 signatories to the main agreement viz. Equipment
 Lease Agreement (14.03.2012), it is a commercial
 transaction integrally connected with
 commissioning of Photovoltaic Solar Plant at
 Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, U.P. Be it noted, as
 per clause(v) of Article 4 , parties have agreed that
 the entire risk, cost of the delivery and installation
 shall be at the cost of the Rishabh (Lessor). Here
 again, we may recapitulate that engineering and
 installation is to be done by Juwi India. What is
 evident from the facts and intention of the parties
 is to facilitate procurement of equipments, sale
 and purchase of equipments, installation and
 leasing out the equipments to Dante Energy. The
 dispute between the parties to various agreements
 could be resolved only by referring all the four
 agreements and the parties thereon to arbitration. 22. Parties to the agreements namely Rishabh and
 Juwi India:­ (i) Equipment and Material Supply Page 21 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Agreement; and (ii) Engineering, Installation and
 Commissioning Contract and the parties to Sale
 and Purchase Agreement between Rishabh and
 Astonfield are one and the same as that of the
 parties in the main agreement namely Equipment
 Lease Agreement (14.03.2012). All the four
 agreements are inter­ connected. This is a case
 where several parties are involved in a single
 commercial project (Solar Plant at Dongri)
 executed through several agreements/contracts. In
 such a case, all the parties can be covered by the
 arbitration clause in the main agreement i.e.
 Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012). 23. Since all the three agreements of Rishabh with
 Juwi India and Astonfield had the purpose of
 commissioning the Photovoltaic Solar Plant project
 at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh,
 the High Court was not right in saying that the
 Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) is the
 main agreement. The High Court, in our view,
 erred in not keeping in view the various clauses in
 all the three agreements which make them as an
 integral part of the principal agreement namely
 Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) and the
 impugned order of the High Court cannot be
 sustained. Amendment to Section 8 of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 24. Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act,
 2015 has brought in amendment to Section 8 to
 make it in line with Section 45 of the Act. In view of
 the observation made in Sukanya Holdings, Law
 Commission has made recommendation for
 amendment to Section 8 of the Act. Consequent to
 2015 Amendment Act, Section 8 is amended as
 under:­
 "8. Power to refer parties to arbitration where there
 is an arbitration agreement. ­ (1) A judicial
 authority before which an action is brought in a
 matter which is the subject of an arbitration
 agreement shall, if a party to the arbitration
 agreement or any person claiming through or Page 22 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT under him, so applies not later than when the date
 of submitting his first statement on the substance
 of the dispute, then, notwithstanding any
 judgment, decree or order of the Supreme Court or
 any court refer the parties to arbitration unless it
 finds that prima facie no valid arbitration
 agreement exists. (2) The application referred to in
 sub­section (1) shall not be entertained unless it is
 accompanied by the original arbitration agreement
 or a duly certified copy thereof Provided that where
 the original arbitration agreement or a certified
 copy thereof is not available with the party
 applying for reference to arbitration under sub­
 section (1), and the said agreement or certified
 copy is retained by the other party to that
 agreement, then, the party so applying shall file
 such application along with a copy of the
 arbitration agreement and a petition praying the
 Court to call upon the other party to produce the
 original arbitration agreement or its duly certified
 copy before that Court. (3) Notwithstanding that an application has been
 made under sub­section (1) and that the issue is
 pending before the judicial authority, an
 arbitration may be commenced or continued and
 an arbitral award made. 25. "Principally four amendments to Section 8(1) have been introduced by the 2015 Amendments ­ (i) the relevant "party" that is entitled to apply
 seeking reference to arbitration has been
 clarified/amplified to include persons claiming
 "through or under" such a party to the arbitration
 agreement; (ii) scope of examination by the judicial
 authority is restricted to a finding whether "no
 valid arbitration agreement exists" and the nature
 of examination by the judicial authority is clarified
 to be on a "prima facie" basis; (iii) the cut­off date
 by which an application under Section 8 is to be
 presented has been defined to mean "the date of" 26. Amendment to Section 8 by the Act, 2015 are
 to be seen in the background of the
 recommendations set out in the 246 th Law
 Commission Report. In its 246th Report, Law
 Commission, while recommending the amendment
 to Section 8 , made the following
 observation/comment:­
 "LC Comment: The words "such of the parties.... to
 the arbitration agreement" and proviso (i) of the
 amendment have been proposed in the context of
 the decision of the Supreme Court in Sukanya
 Holdings Pvt. Ltd. v. Jayesh H. Pandya and Anr. (2003) 5 SCC 531,

 ­ in cases where all the parties to the dispute are
 not parties to the arbitration agreement, the
 reference is to be rejected only where such parties
 are necessary parties to the action - and not if
 they are only proper parties, or are otherwise legal
 strangers to the action and have been added only
 to circumvent the arbitration agreement. Proviso (ii) of the amendment contemplates a two­step
 process to be adopted by a judicial authority when
 considering an application seeking the reference of
 a pending action to arbitration. The amendment
 envisages that the judicial authority shall not refer
 the parties to arbitration only if it finds that there
 does not exist an arbitration agreement or that it
 is null and void. If the judicial authority is of the
 opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement
 exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration,
 and leave the existence of the arbitration
 agreement to be finally determined by the arbitral Page 24 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT tribunal. However, if the judicial authority
 concludes that the agreement does not exist, then
 the conclusion will be final and not prima facie.
 The amendment also envisages that there shall be
 a conclusive determination as to whether the
 arbitration agreement is null and void. (2) The application referred to in sub­section (1)
 shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied
 by the original arbitration agreement or a duly
 certified copy thereof or a copy accompanied by an
 affidavit calling upon the other party to produce
 the original arbitration agreement or duly certified
 thereof in circumstances where the original
 arbitration agreement or duly certified copy is
 retained only by the other party. LC Comment: In many transactions involving
 Government bodies and smaller market players,
 the original/duly certified copy of the arbitration
 agreement is only retained by the former. This
 amendment would ensure that the latter class is
 not prejudiced in any manner by virtue of the
 same" (Ref: 246th Law Commission Report,
 Government of India) 27. The language of amendment to Section 8 of the
 Act is clear that the amendment to Section 8(1) of
 the Act would apply notwithstanding any prayer,
 judgment, decree or order of the Supreme Court or
 any other Court. The High Court laid emphasis
 upon the word ".....unless it finds that prima­facie
 no valid agreement exists". The High Court
 observed that there is no arbitration agreement
 between Astonfield and Rishabh. After referring to
 Sukanya Holdings and the amended Section 8 and Section 45 of the Act, the High Court pointed out
 the difference in language of Section 8 and Section
 45 of the Act. The High Court distinguished
 between Sukanya Holdings and Chloro Controls,
 and observed that Sukanya Holdings was not
 overruled by Chloro Controls. In para (23) of the
 impugned judgment, it was held as under:­
 "23. ......The change in Section 8 is that the
 Court is to ­ in cases where arbitration Page 25 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT agreements are relied on­ to refer the disputes
 in the suit, to arbitration, "notwithstanding any
 judgment, decree or order of the Supreme Court
 or any Court, refer the parties to arbitration
 unless it finds that prima facie no valid
 arbitration agreement exists". The Court is of
 opinion that Sukanya is not per se overruled,
 because the exercise of whether an arbitration
 agreement exists between the parties, in
 relation to the disputes that are the subject
 matter of the suit, has to be carried out. If there
 are causes of action that cannot be subjected to
 arbitration, or the suit involves adjudication of
 the role played by parties who are not
 signatories to the arbitration agreement, it has
 to continue because "prima facie no valid
 arbitration agreement exists" between such non
 parties and others, who are parties." 28. Re: contention: allegations of fraud disable an
 arbitration:­ Yet another ground based on which
 the High Court declined to refer the parties to
 arbitration is the allegations of fraud levelled by
 respondents/plaintiffs in their plaint against
 Astonfield and appellant no.1. The High Court held
 that the respondents levelled allegations of fraud
 against the appellants which raise serious triable
 issues of fraud and hence, the matter cannot be
 referred to arbitration. 29. According to the respondents, it is not a case
 where "fraud is alleged merely to disable an
 arbitration". Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel for
 respondents contended that the plaint is based on
 the averments that from inception, the intention of
 appellants/defendants was to cheat the
 respondents and the respondents were made to
 part with large sums of money on the basis of the
 misrepresentation made by the appellants. It was
 submitted that alternative prayer in the plaint will
 not convert the fraud suit to a regulatory suit
 because of alternative prayer since alternative
 prayer - 'lease rental' has been projected only as
 an alternative remedy. Placing reliance upon
 Arundhati Mishra (Smt) v. Sri Ram Charitra Page 26 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Pandey (1994) 2 SCC 29, it was submitted that it
 is settled law that it is open to the parties to raise
 mutually inconsistent pleas and the relief could be
 granted on the alternative plea so raised. 30. Refuting the above contentions, Mr. Shanti
 Bhushan, learned senior counsel for the
 appellants placed reliance upon Ayyasamy case to
 contend that there are no serious allegations in
 the plaint to decline reference of the matter to
 arbitration. It was submitted that mere allegations
 of fraud were not sufficient to detract from the
 performance of the obligation of the parties in
 terms of the agreement and refer the matter to
 arbitration. 31. Under the Act , an arbitration agreement means
 an agreement which is enforceable in law and the
 jurisdiction of the arbitrator is on the basis of an
 arbitration clause contained in the arbitration
 agreement. However, in a case where the parties
 alleged that the arbitration agreement is vitiated
 on account of fraud, the Court may refuse to refer
 the parties to arbitration. In Ayyasamy case, this
 Court held that mere allegation of fraud is not a
 ground to nullify the effect of arbitration
 agreement between the parties and arbitration
 clause need not be avoided and parties can be
 relegated to arbitration where merely simple
 allegations of fraud touched upon internal affairs
 of parties is levelled. Justice A.K. Sikri observed
 that it is only in those cases where the Court finds
 that there are serious allegations of fraud which
 make a virtual case of criminal offence and where
 there are complicated allegations of fraud then it
 becomes necessary that such complex issues can
 be decided only by the civil court on the
 appreciation of evidence that needs to be
 produced. In para (25) of Ayyasamy case, Justice
 Sikri held as under:­
 "25.....Therefore, the inquiry of the Court, while
 dealing with an application under Section 8 of
 the Act, should be on the aforesaid aspect viz.
 whether the nature of dispute is such that it
 cannot be referred to arbitration, even if there is Page 27 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT an arbitration agreement between the parties.
 When the case of fraud is set up by one of the
 parties and on that basis that party wants to
 wriggle out of that arbitration agreement, a
 strict and meticulous inquiry into the
 allegations of fraud is needed and only when
 the Court is satisfied that the allegations are of
 serious and complicated nature that it would be
 more appropriate for the Court to deal with the
 subject­ matter rather than relegating the
 parties to arbitration, then alone such an
 application under Section 8 should be rejected." ix) Radhey Shyam and anr. v. Shhabi Natha and
 ors. reported in (2015) 5 SCC 423, wherein it is held
 as under : It is true that there is lack of uniformity even in
 the pronouncements of English Judges, with re­
 gard to the grounds upon which a writ, or, as it is
 now said, an order of 'certiorari', could issue, but
 such differences of opinion are unavoidable in
 Judge­made law which has developed through a
 long course of years. As is well known, the issue of the prerogative
 writs, within which 'certiorari' is included, had
 their origin in England in the King's prerogative
 power of superintendence over the due observance
 of law by his officials and tribunals. The writ of
 'certiorari' is so named because in its original form
 it required that the King should be 'certified of' the
 proceedings to be investigated and the object was
 to secure by the authority of a superior court, that
 the jurisdiction of the inferior tribunal should be
 properly exercised, vide Ryots of Garabandho v.
 Zemindar of Parlakimedi10 . These principles were
 transplanted to other parts of the King's domin­
 ions. In India, during the British days, the three
 chartered High Courts of Calcutta, Bombay and
 Madras were alone competent to issue writs and
 that too within specified limits and the power was
 not exercisable by the other High Courts at all. 'In
 that situation' as this Court observed in Election
 Commission v. Saka Venkata Subba Rao : (AIR p.
 212, para 6)
 '6. ... the makers of the Constitution having de­
 cided to provide for certain basic safeguards for
 the people in the new set up, which they called
 fundamental rights, evidently thought it necessary Page 29 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT to provide also a quick and inexpensive remedy for
 the enforcement of such rights and, finding that
 the prerogative writs, which the courts in England
 had developed and used whenever urgent neces­
 sity demanded immediate and decisive interposi­
 tion, were peculiarly suited for the purpose, they
 conferred, in the States' sphere, new and wide
 powers on the High Courts of issuing directions,
 orders, or writs primarily for the enforcement of
 fundamental rights, the power to issue such direc­
 tions, etc. 'for any other purpose' being also in­
 cluded with a view apparently to place all the High
 Courts in this country in somewhat the same posi­
 tion as the Court of King's Bench in England.' 6. The language used in Articles 32 and 226 of our
 Constitution is very wide and the powers of the
 Supreme Court as well as of all the High Courts in
 India extend to issuing of orders, writs or direc­
 tions including writs in the nature of 'habeas cor­
 pus, mandamus, quo warranto, prohibition and
 certiorari' as may be considered necessary for en­
 forcement of the fundamental rights and in the
 case of the High Courts, for other purposes as
 well. In view of the express provisions in our Con­
 stitution we need not now look back to the early
 history or the procedural technicalities of these
 writs in English law, nor feel oppressed by any dif­
 ference or change of opinion expressed in particu­
 lar cases by English Judges. We can make an or­
 der or issue a writ in the nature of 'certiorari' in all
 appropriate cases and in appropriate manner, so
 long as we keep to the broad and fundamental
 principles that regulate the exercise of jurisdiction
 in the matter of granting such writs in English
 law. 7. One of the fundamental principles in regard to
 the issuing of a writ of 'certiorari', is, that the writ
 can be availed of only to remove or adjudicate on
 the validity of judicial acts. The expression 'judicial
 acts' includes the exercise of quasi­judicial func­
 tions by administrative bodies or other authorities
 or persons obliged to exercise such functions and
 is used in contrast with what are purely ministeri­
 al acts. Atkin, L.J. thus summed up the law on Page 30 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT this point in R. v. Electricity Commissioners : (KB
 p. 205)
 '... Whenever anybody of persons having legal au­
 thority to determine questions affecting the rights
 of subjects, and having the duty to act judicially,
 act in excess of their legal authority, they are sub­
 ject to the controlling jurisdiction of the King's
 Bench Division exercised in these writs.'
 The second essential feature of a writ of 'certiorari'
 is that the control which is exercised through it
 over judicial or quasi­judicial tribunals or bodies is
 not in an appellate but supervisory capacity. In
 granting a writ of 'certiorari' the superior court
 does not exercise the powers of an appellate
 tribunal. It does not review or reweigh the evidence
 upon which the determination of the inferior
 tribunal purports to be based. It demolishes the
 order which it considers to be without jurisdiction
 or palpably erroneous but does not substitute its
 own views for those of the inferior tribunal. The of­
 fending order or proceeding so to say is put out of
 the way as one which should not be used to the
 detriment of any person, vide per Lord Cairns in
 Walsall Overseers v. London and North Western
 Railway Co., AC at p. 39. 8. The supervision of the superior court exercised
 through writs of 'certiorari' goes on two points, as
 has been expressed by Lord Summer in R. v. Nat
 Bell Liquors Ltd., AC at p. 156. One is the area of
 inferior jurisdiction and the qualifications and
 conditions of its exercise; the other is the observ­
 ance of law in the course of its exercise. These two
 heads normally cover all the grounds on which a
 writ of 'certiorari' could be demanded. In fact there
 is little difficulty in the enunciation of the prin­
 ciples; the difficulty really arises in applying the
 principles to the facts of a particular case. 9. 'Certiorari' may lie and is generally granted
 when a court has acted without or in excess of its
 jurisdiction. The want of jurisdiction may arise
 from the nature of the subject­matter of the pro­
 ceeding or from the absence of some preliminary
 proceeding or the court itself may not be legally Page 31 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT constituted or suffer from certain disability by
 reason of extraneous circumstances, vide Hals­
 bury, 2 Edn., Vol IX, p. 880. When the jurisdiction
 of the court depends upon the existence of some
 collateral fact, it is well settled that the court can­
 not by a wrong decision of the fact give it jurisdic­
 tion which it would not otherwise possess, vide
 Bunbury v. Fuller; R. v. Income Tax Special Pur­ poses Commissioners. 10. A tribunal may be competent to enter upon an
 enquiry but in making the enquiry it may act in
 flagrant disregard of the rules of procedure or
 where no particular procedure is prescribed, it
 may violate the principles of natural justice. A writ
 of 'certiorari' may be available in such cases. An
 error in the decision or determination itself may
 also be amenable to a writ of 'certiorari' but it
 must be a manifest error apparent on the face of
 the proceedings, e.g. when it is based on clear ig­
 norance or disregard of the provisions of law. In
 other words, it is a patent error which can be cor­
 rected by 'certiorari' but not a mere wrong de­
 cision. The essential features of the remedy by way of 'cer­
 tiorari' have been stated with remarkable brevity
 and clearness by Morris, L.J. in the recent case of R. v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal
 Tribunal , ex p Shaw. The Lord Justice says: (KB p. 357)
 'It is plain that certiorari will not issue as the cloak
 of an appeal in disguise. It does not lie in order to
 bring up an order or decision for re­hearing of the
 issue raised in the proceedings. It exists to correct
 error of law where revealed on the face of an order
 or decision, or irregularity, or absence of, or excess
 of, jurisdiction when shown.' 11. In dealing with the powers of the High Court
 under Article 226 of the Constitution, this Court
 has expressed itself in almost similar terms, vide G. Veerappa Pillai v. Raman & Raman Ltd. and
 said: (AIR pp. 195­96, para 20) Page 32 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT '20. Such writs as are referred to in Article 226 are
 obviously intended to enable the High Court to is­
 sue them in grave cases where the subordinate
 tribunals or bodies or officers act wholly without
 jurisdiction, or in excess of it, or in violation of the
 principles of natural justice, or refuse to exercise a
 jurisdiction vested in them, or there is an error ap­
 parent on the face of the record, and such act,
 omission, error or excess has resulted in manifest
 injustice. However extensive the jurisdiction may
 be, it seems to us that it is not so wide or large as
 to enable the High Court to convert itself into a
 court of appeal and examine for itself the correct­
 ness of the decisions impugned and decide what is
 the proper view to be taken or the order to be
 made.'

 These passages indicate with sufficient fullness
 the general principles that govern the exercise of
 jurisdiction in the matter of granting writs of 'certi­
 orari' under Article 226 of the Constitution." 11. It is necessary to clarify that the expression
 "judicial acts" is not meant to refer to judicial or­
 ders of civil courts as the matter before this Court
 arose out of the order of the Election Tribunal and
 no direct decision of this Court, except Surya Dev
 Rai2, has been brought to our notice where writ of
 certiorari may have been issued against an order
 of a judicial court. In fact, when the question as to
 scope of jurisdiction arose in subsequent de­
 cisions, it was clarified that orders of the judicial
 courts stood on different footing from the quasi­ju­
 dicial orders of authorities or tribunals. 12. In Ujjam Bai v. State of U.P.19 , matter was re­
 ferred to a Bench of seven Judges on the scope of
 writ of certiorari against an order of assessment
 under the provisions of sales tax law passed in vi­
 olation of a fundamental right. Majority of six
 Judges took the view that except an order under a
 void law or an "ultra vires" or "without jurisdic­
 tion" order, there could be no violation of funda­
 mental right by a quasi­judicial order or a stat­
 utory authority and such order could not be chal­ Page 33 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT lenged under Article 32. A writ of certiorari could
 however, lie against a patently erroneous order
 under Article 226. It was observed that the judicial
 orders of courts stood on different footing. Ayy­
 angar, J. observed: (AIR pp. 1679­80, para 155)
 "155. Before concluding it is necessary to advert to
 one matter which was just touched on in the
 course of the arguments as one which might be re­
 served for consideration when it actually arose,
 and this related to the question whether the de­
 cision or order of a regular ordinary court of law as
 distinguished from a tribunal or quasi­judicial au­
 thority constituted or created under particular
 statutes could be complained of as violating a fun­
 damental right. It is a salutary principle that this
 Court should not pronounce on points which are
 not involved in the questions raised before it and
 that is the reason why I am not dealing with it in
 any fullness and am certainly not expressing any
 decided opinion on it. Without doing either
 however, I consider it proper to make these obser­
 vations. There is not any substantial identity
 between a court of law adjudicating on the rights
 of parties in the lis before it and designed as the
 High Courts and this Court are to investigate inter
 alia whether any fundamental rights are infringed
 and vested with power to protect them, and quasi­
 judicial authorities which are created under par­
 ticular statutes and with a view to implement and
 administer their provisions. I shall be content to
 leave the topic at this." 13. In Mirajkar3 a nine­Judge Bench judgment, a
 judicial order of the High Court was challenged as
 being violative of fundamental right. This Court by
 majority held that a judicial order of a competent
 court could not violate a fundamental right.
 Even if there was incidental violation, it could not
 be held to be violative of the fundamental right.
 Gajendragadkar, C.J., observed: (AIR pp. 11­12,
 paras 38­39 & 42)

 "38. The argument that the impugned order af­
 fects the fundamental rights of the petitioners un­ Page 34 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT der Article 19(1) , is based on a complete miscon­
 ception about the true nature and character of ju­
 dicial process and of judicial decisions. When a
 Judge deals with matters brought before him for
 his adjudication, he first decides questions of fact
 on which the parties are at issue, and then applies
 the relevant law to the said facts. Whether the
 findings of fact recorded by the Judge are right or
 wrong, and whether the conclusion of law drawn
 by him suffers from any infirmity, can be con­
 sidered and decided if the party aggrieved by the
 decision of the Judge takes the matter up before
 the appellate court. But it is singularly inappropri­
 ate to assume that a judicial decision pronounced
 by a Judge of competent jurisdiction in or in rela­
 tion to a matter brought before him for adjudica­
 tion can affect the fundamental rights of the cit­
 izens under Article 19(1). What the judicial de­
 cision purports to do is to decide the controversy
 between the parties brought before the court and
 nothing more. If this basic and essential aspect of
 the judicial process is borne in mind, it would be
 plain that the judicial verdict pronounced by court
 in or in relation to a matter brought before it for its
 decision cannot be said to affect the fundamental
 rights of citizens under Article 19(1). 39. ... Just as an order passed by the court on the
 merits of the dispute before it can be challenged
 only in appeal and cannot be said to contravene
 the fundamental rights of the litigants before the
 court so could the impugned order be challenged
 in appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution,
 but it cannot be said to affect the fundamental
 rights of the petitioners. The character of the judi­
 cial order remains the same whether it is passed
 in a matter directly in issue between the parties or
 is passed incidentally to make the adjudication of
 the dispute between the parties fair and effective.
 On this view of the matter, it seems to us that the
 whole attack against the impugned order based on
 the assumption that it infringes the petitioners'
 fundamental rights under Article 19(1) , must fail.
 *** Page 35 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT 42. It is true that the opinion thus expressed by
 Kania, C.J., in A.K. Gopalan had not received the
 concurrence of the other learned Judges who
 heard the said case. Subsequently, however, in Ram Singh v. State of Delhi , AIR at p. 272 the said
 observations were cited with approval by the Full
 Court. The same principle has been accepted by
 this Court in Express Newspaper (P) Ltd. v. Union
 of India , AIR at p. 618 and by the majority judg­
 ment in Atiabari Tea Co. Ltd. v. State of Assam ,
 AIR at pp. 255­56." 14. Explaining the observations in the earlier judg­
 ments in Budhan Choudhry v. State of Bihar and Parbhani Transport Coop. Society Ltd. v. RTA that
 a judicial order could be violative of Article 14 , it
 was observed: (Mirajkar case, AIR pp. 13­14, paras
 46­48)
 "46. Naturally, the principal contention which was
 urged on their behalf before this Court was that Section 30 CrPC, infringed the fundamental right
 guaranteed by Article 14 , and was, therefore, in­
 valid. This contention was repelled by this Court.
 Then, alternatively, the appellants argued that
 though the section itself may not be discriminat­
 ory, it may lend itself to abuse bringing about a
 discrimination between persons accused of of­
 fences of the same kind, for the police may send
 up a person accused of an offence under Section
 366 to a Magistrate and the police may send an­
 other person accused of an offence under the same
 section to a Magistrate who can commit the ac­
 cused to the Court of Session. This alternative
 contention was examined and it was also rejected.
 That incidentally raised the question as to whether
 the judicial decision could itself be said to offend Article 14. S.R. Das, J., as he then was, who spoke
 for the Court considered this contention, referred
 with approval to the observations made by Frank­
 furter, J. and Stone, C.J. of the Supreme Court of
 the United States in Snowden v. Hughes, and ob­
 served that the judicial decision must of necessity
 depend on the facts and circumstances of each Page 36 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT particular case and what may superficially appear
 to be an unequal application of the law may not
 necessarily amount to a denial of equal protection
 of law unless there is shown to be present in it an
 element of intentional and purposeful discrimina­
 tion. Having made this observation which at best
 may be said to assume that a judicial decision
 may conceivably contravene Article 14 , the learned
 Judge took the precaution of adding that the dis­
 cretion of judicial officers is not arbitrary and the
 law provides for revision by superior courts of or­
 ders passed by the subordinate courts. In such
 circumstances, there is hardly any ground for ap­
 prehending any capricious discrimination by judi­
 cial tribunals. 47. It is thus clear that though the observations
 made by Frankfurter, J. and Stone, C.J. in
 Snowden v. Hughes had been cited with approval,
 the question as to whether a judicial order can at­
 tract the jurisdiction of this Court under Articles
 32(1) and (2) was not argued and did not fall to be
 considered at all. That question became only incid­
 entally relevant in deciding whether the validity of
 the conviction which was impugned by the appel­
 lants in Budhan Choudhry could be successfully
 assailed on the ground that the judicial decision
 under Section 30 CrPC, was capriciously rendered
 against the appellants. The scope of the jurisdic­
 tion of this Court in exercising its writ jurisdiction
 in relation to orders passed by the High Court was
 not and could not have been examined, because
 the matter had come to this Court in appeal under Article 132(1); and whether or not judicial decision
 can be said to affect any fundamental right merely
 because it incidentally and indirectly may en­
 croach upon such right did not, therefore, call for
 consideration or decision in that case. In fact the
 closing observations made in the judgment them­
 selves indicate that this Court was of the view that
 if any judicial order was sought to be attacked on
 the ground that it was inconsistent with Article 14 ,
 the proper remedy to challenge such an order
 would be an appeal or revision as may be provided
 by law. We are, therefore, not prepared to accept Page 37 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Mr Setalvad's assumption that the observation on
 which he bases himself support the proposition
 that according to this Court, judicial decisions
 rendered by courts of competent jurisdiction in or
 in relation to matters brought before them can be
 assailed on the ground that they violate Article 14. It may incidentally be pointed out that the decision
 of the Supreme Court of the United States in
 Snowden v. Hughes, was itself not concerned with
 the validity of any judicial decision at all. 48. On the other hand, in Parbhani Transport
 Coop. Society Ltd. v. RTA Sarkar, J. speaking for
 the Court, has observed that the decision of the
 Regional Transport Authority which was chal­
 lenged before the Court may have been right or
 wrong, but that they were unable to see how that
 decision could offend Article 14 or any other fun­
 damental right of the petitioner. The learned Judge
 further observed that the Regional Transport Au­
 thority was acting as a quasi­judicial body and if it
 has made any mistake in its decision there are ap­
 propriate remedies available to the petitioner for
 obtaining relief. It cannot complain of a breach of Article 14. It is true that in this case also the lar­
 ger issue as to whether the orders passed by
 quasi­judicial tribunals can be said to affect Art­
 icle 14, does not appear to have been fully argued.
 It is clear that the observations made by this Court
 in this case unambiguously indicate that it would
 be inappropriate to suggest that the decision
 rendered by a judicial tribunal can be described as
 offending Article 14 at all. It may be a right or
 wrong decision, and if it is a wrong decision it can
 be corrected by appeal or revision as may be per­
 mitted by law, but it cannot be said per se to con­
 travene Article 14. It is significant that these ob­
 servations have been made while dealing with a
 writ petition filed by the petitioner, the Parbhani
 Transport Cooperative Society Ltd. under Article
 32; and insofar as the point has been considered
 and decided the decision is against Mr Setalvad's
 contention." 15. Decision of this Court in Prem Chand Garg v.
 Excise Commr.27 , setting aside rule of this Court
 requiring deposit of security for filing a writ peti­
 tion, was also explained as not holding that a judi­
 cial order resulted in violation of the fundamental
 right: (Mirajkar case3, AIR p. 15, paras 50­51)
 "50. It would thus be seen that the main contro­
 versy in Prem Chand Garg centred round the
 question as to whether Article 145 conferred
 powers on this Court to make rules, though they
 may be inconsistent with the constitutional provi­
 sions prescribed by Part III. Once it was held that
 the powers under Article 142 had to be read sub­
 ject not only to the fundamental rights, but to oth­
 er binding statutory provisions, it became clear
 that the rule which authorised the making of the
 impugned order was invalid. It was in that context
 that the validity of the order had to be incidentally
 examined. The petition was made not to challenge
 the order as such, but to challenge the validity of
 the rule under which the order was made. Once
 the rule was struck down as being invalid, the or­
 der passed under the said rule had to be vacated.
 It is difficult to see how this decision can be
 pressed into service by Mr Setalvad in support of
 the argument that a judicial order passed by this
 Court was held to be subject to the writ jurisdic­
 tion of this Court itself. What was held by this
 Court was that rule made by it under its powers
 conferred by Article 145 which are legislative in
 character, was invalid; but that is quite another
 matter. 51. It is plain that if a party desires to challenge
 any of the rules framed by this Court in exercise of
 its powers under Article 145 on the ground that
 they are invalid, because they illegally contravene
 his fundamental rights, it would be open to the
 party to move this Court under Article 32. Such a
 challenge is not against any decision of this Court,
 but against a rule made by it in pursuance of its
 rule­making power. If the rule is struck down as it
 was in Prem Chand Garg, this Court can review or
 recall its order passed under the said rule. Cases
 in which initial orders of security passed by the Page 39 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Court are later reviewed and the amount of secur­
 ity initially directed is reduced, frequently arise in
 this Court but they show the exercise of this
 Court's powers under Article 137 and not under Article 32. Therefore, we are not satisfied that Mr
 Setalvad is fortified by any judicial decision of this
 Court in raising the contention that a judicial or­
 der passed by the High Court in or in relation to
 proceedings brought before it for its adjudication,
 can become the subject­matter of writ jurisdiction
 of this Court under Article 32(2). In fact, no pre­
 cedent has been cited before us which would sup­
 port Mr Setalvad's claim that a judicial order of the
 kind with which we are concerned in the present
 proceedings has ever been attempted to be chal­
 lenged or has been set aside under Article 32 of
 the Constitution." 16. This Court then dealt with the legal position in
 England on the question of scope of writ of certior­
 ari against a judicial order. Noting that the writ of
 certiorari did not lie against a judicial order, it was
 observed: (Mirajkar case3, AIR pp. 18­19, paras
 63­64)
 "63. Whilst we are dealing with this aspect of the
 matter, we may incidentally refer to the relevant
 observations made by Halsbury on this point. 'In
 the case of judgments of inferior courts of civil jur­
 isdiction', says Halsbury in the footnote--
 'it has been suggested that certiorari might be
 granted to quash them for want of jurisdiction
 (Kemp v. Balne, Dow & L at p. 887), inasmuch as
 an error did not lie upon that ground. But there
 appears to be no reported case in which the judg­
 ment of an inferior court of civil jurisdiction has
 been quashed on certiorari, either for want of jur­
 isdiction or on any other ground (Halsbury Laws of
 England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 11, p. 129)'. The ultimate
 proposition is set out in the terms: 'Certiorari does
 not lie to quash the judgments of inferior courts of
 civil jurisdiction'. These observations would indic­
 ate that in England the judicial orders passed by
 civil courts of plenary jurisdiction in or in relation Page 40 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT to matters brought before them are not held to be
 amenable to the jurisdiction to issue writs of certi­
 orari. 64. In R. v. Chancellor of St. Edmundsbury and
 Ipswich Diocese , ex p White, the question which
 arose was whether certiorari would lie from the
 Court of King's Bench to an ecclesiastical court;
 and the answer rendered by the court was that
 certiorari would not lie against the decision of an
 ecclesiastical court. In dealing with this question,
 Wrottesley, L.J. has elaborately considered the his­
 tory of the writ jurisdiction and has dealt with the
 question about the meaning of the word 'inferior'
 as applied to courts of law in England in discuss­
 ing the problem as to the issue of the writ in re­
 gard to decisions of certain courts. 'The more this
 matter was investigated', says Wrottesley, L.J.: (KB
 pp. 205­06)
 '... the clearer it became that the word 'inferior' as
 applied to courts of law in England had been used
 with at least two very different meanings. If, as
 some assert, the question of inferiority is determ­
 ined by ascertaining whether the court in question
 can be stopped from exceeding its jurisdiction by a
 writ of prohibition issuing from the King's Bench,
 then not only the ecclesiastical courts, but also
 palatine courts and admiralty courts are inferior
 courts. But there is another test, well recognised
 by lawyers, by which to distinguish a superior
 from an inferior court, namely, whether in its pro­
 ceedings, and in particular in its judgments, it
 must appear that the court was acting within its
 jurisdiction. This is the characteristic of an inferior
 court, whereas in the proceedings of a superior
 court it will be presumed that it acted within its
 jurisdiction unless the contrary should appear
 either on the face of the proceedings or aliunde.'
 Mr Sen relied upon this decision to show that even
 the High Court of Bombay can be said to be an in­
 ferior court for the purpose of exercising jurisdic­
 tion by this Court under Article 32(2) to issue a
 writ of certiorari in respect of the impugned order Page 41 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT passed by it. We are unable to see how this de­
 cision can support Mr Sen's contentions." 17. In Rupa Ashok Hurra it was held that final or­
 der of this Court cannot be challenged under Art­
 icle 32 as violative of a fundamental right. The
 judgment of this Court in Triveniben v. State of
 Gujarat was referred to with approval to the effect
 that a judicial order could not violate a funda­
 mental right. It was observed: (Rupa Ashok Hurra
 case4, SCC pp. 402­03, paras 11­15)
 "11. In Triveniben v. State of Gujarat speaking for
 himself and other three learned Judges of the Con­
 stitution Bench, Oza, J., reiterating the same prin­
 ciple, observed: (SCC p. 697, para 22)
 '22. ... It is well settled now that a judgment of
 court can never be challenged under Articles 14 or
 21 and therefore the judgment of the court award­
 ing the sentence of death is not open to challenge
 as violating Article 14 or Article 21 as has been laid down by this Court in Naresh Shridhar Mira­
 jkar v. State of Maharashtra and also in A.R. An­
 tulay v. R.S. Nayak, the only jurisdiction which
 could be sought to be exercised by a prisoner for
 infringement of his rights can be to challenge the
 subsequent events after the final judicial verdict is
 pronounced and it is because of this that on the
 ground of long or inordinate delay a condemned
 prisoner could approach this Court and that is
 what has consistently been held by this Court. But
 it will not be open to this Court in exercise of juris­
 diction under Article 32 to go behind or to examine
 the final verdict reached by a competent court con­
 victing and sentencing the condemned prisoner
 and even while considering the circumstances in
 order to reach a conclusion as to whether the inor­
 dinate delay coupled with subsequent circum­
 stances could be held to be sufficient for coming to
 a conclusion that execution of the sentence of
 death will not be just and proper.'
 Jagannatha Shetty, J. expressed no opinion on
 this aspect. 12. We consider it inappropriate to burden this
 judgment with discussion of the decisions in other
 cases taking the same view. Suffice it to mention
 that various Benches of this Court reiterated the
 same principle in the following cases: A.R. Antulay
 v. R.S. Nayak , Krishna Swami v. Union of India , Mohd. Aslam v. Union of India , Khoday Distilleries
 Ltd. v. Supreme Court of India, Gurbachan Singh
 v. Union of India , Babu Singh Bains v. Union of
 India and P. Ashokan v. Union of India . 13. It is, however, true that in Supreme Court Bar
 Assn. v. Union of India a Constitution Bench and
 in M.S. Ahlawat v. State of Haryana a three­Judge
 Bench, and in other cases different Benches
 quashed the earlier judgments/orders of this
 Court in an application filed under Article 32 of
 the Constitution. But in those cases no one joined
 issue with regard to the maintainability of the writ
 petition under Article 32 of the Constitution.
 Therefore, those cases cannot be read as authority
 for the proposition that a writ of certiorari under Article 32 would lie to challenge an earlier final
 judgment of this Court. 14. On the analysis of the ratio laid down in the
 aforementioned cases, we reaffirm our considered
 view that a final judgment/order passed by this
 Court cannot be assailed in an application under Article 32 of the Constitution of India by an ag­
 grieved person, whether he was a party to the case
 or not. 15. In fairness to the learned counsel for the
 parties, we record that all of them at the close of
 the hearing of these cases conceded that the juris­
 diction of this Court under Article 32 of the Con­
 stitution cannot be invoked to challenge the valid­
 ity of a final judgment/order passed by this Court
 after exhausting the remedy of review under Art­
 icle 137 of the Constitution read with Order 40
 Rule 1 of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966." 18. While the above judgments dealt with the
 question whether judicial order could violate a
 fundamental right, it was clearly laid down that Page 43 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT challenge to judicial orders could lie by way of ap­
 peal or revision or under Article 227 and not by
 way of a writ under Articles 226 and 32. 19. Another Bench of three Judges in Sadhana
 Lodh v. National Insurance Co. Ltd. considered the
 question whether remedy of writ will be available
 when remedy of appeal was on limited grounds.
 This Court held: (SCC p. 527, para 6)
 "6. The right of appeal is a statutory right and
 where the law provides remedy by filing an appeal
 on limited grounds, the grounds of challenge can­
 not be enlarged by filing a petition under Articles
 226/227 of the Constitution on the premise that
 the insurer has limited grounds available for chal­
 lenging the award given by the Tribunal. Section
 149(2) of the Act limits the insurer to file an appeal
 on those enumerated grounds and the appeal be­
 ing a product of the statute it is not open to an in­
 surer to take any plea other than those provided
 under Section 149(2) of the Act (see National In­
 surance Co. Ltd. v. Nicolletta Rohtagi ). This being
 the legal position, the petition filed under Article
 227 of the Constitution by the insurer was wholly
 misconceived. Where a statutory right to file an
 appeal has been provided for, it is not open to the
 High Court to entertain a petition under Article
 227 of the Constitution. Even if where a remedy by
 way of an appeal has not been provided for against
 the order and judgment of a District Judge, the
 remedy available to the aggrieved person is to file a
 revision before the High Court under Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Where remedy for
 filing a revision before the High Court under Sec­
 tion 115 CPC has been expressly barred by a State
 enactment, only in such case a petition under Art­
 icle 227 of the Constitution would lie and not un­
 der Article 226 of the Constitution. As a matter of
 illustration, where a trial court in a civil suit re­
 fused to grant temporary injunction and an appeal
 against refusal to grant injunction has been rejec­
 ted, and a State enactment has barred the remedy
 of filing revision under Section 115 CPC, in such a
 situation a writ petition under Article 227 would
 lie and not under Article 226 of the Constitution. Thus, where the State Legislature has barred a
 remedy of filing a revision petition before the High
 Court under Section 115 CPC, no petition under Article 226 of the Constitution would lie for the
 reason that a mere wrong decision without any­
 thing more is not enough to attract jurisdiction of
 the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitu­
 tion." 20. This Court in judgment dated 6­2­1989 in
 Qamruddin v. Rasul Baksh which has been quoted
 in the Allahabad High Court judgment in Ganga
 Saran v. Civil Judge, Hapur considered the issue
 of writ of certiorari and mandamus against interim
 order of the civil court and held: (Qamruddin case,
 AWC p. 309, para 4)
 "4. ... If the order of injunction is passed by a com­
 petent court having jurisdiction in the matter, it is
 not permissible for the High Court under Article
 226 of the Constitution to quash the same by issu­
 ing a writ of certiorari. In the instant case the
 learned Single Judge of the High Court further
 failed to realise that a writ of mandamus could not
 be issued in this case. A writ of mandamus cannot
 be issued to a private individual unless he is un­
 der a statutory duty to perform a public duty. The
 dispute involved in the instant case was entirely
 between two private parties, which could not be a
 subject­matter of writ of mandamus under Article
 226 of the Constitution. The learned Single Judge
 ignored this basic principle of writ jurisdiction
 conferred on the High Court under Article 226 of
 the Constitution. There was no occasion or justi­
 fication for issue of a writ of certiorari or manda­
 mus. The High Court committed serious error of
 jurisdiction in interfering with the order of the Dis­
 trict Judge." 21. Thus, it has been clearly laid down by this
 Court that an order of the civil court could be
 challenged under Article 227 and not under Article 226. 22. We may now come to the judgment in Surya
 Dev Rai2. Therein, the appellant was aggrieved by Page 45 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT the denial of interim injunction in a pending suit
 and preferred a writ petition in the High Court
 stating that after the CPC amendment by Act 46 of
 1999 w.e.f. 1­7­2002, remedy of revision under
 Section 115 was no longer available. The High
 Court dismissed the petition following its Full
 Bench judgment in Ganga Saran to the effect that
 a writ was not maintainable as no mandamus
 could issue to a private person. The Bench con­
 sidered the question of the impact of the CPC amendment on power and jurisdiction of the High
 Court to entertain a writ of certiorari under Article
 226 or a petition under Article 227 to involve
 power of superintendence. The Bench noted the
 legal position that after CPC amendment revisional
 jurisdiction of the High Court against interlocutory
 order was curtailed. 23. The Bench then referred to the history of writ
 of certiorari and its scope and concluded thus: Firstly, the writ of certiorari is an exercise of its
 original jurisdiction by the High Court; exercise of
 supervisory jurisdiction is not an original jurisdic­
 tion and in this sense it is akin to appellate, revi­
 sional or corrective jurisdiction. Secondly, in a writ
 of certiorari, the record of the proceedings having
 been certified and sent up by the inferior court or
 tribunal to the High Court, the High Court if in­
 clined to exercise its jurisdiction, may simply an­
 nul or quash the proceedings and then do no
 more. In exercise of supervisory jurisdiction, the
 High Court may not only quash or set aside the
 impugned proceedings, judgment or order but it
 may also make such directions as the facts and
 circumstances of the case may warrant, maybe, by
 way of guiding the inferior court or tribunal as to
 the manner in which it would now proceed further
 or afresh as commended to or guided by the High
 Court. In appropriate cases the High Court, while
 exercising supervisory jurisdiction, may substitute
 such a decision of its own in place of the im­
 pugned decision, as the inferior court or tribunal
 should have made. Lastly, the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution is capable of being
 exercised on a prayer made by or on behalf of the
 party aggrieved; the supervisory jurisdiction is
 capable of being exercised suo motu as well." 24. It is the above holding, correctness of which
 was doubted in the referring order already men­
 tioned above. 25. It is true that this Court has laid down that
 technicalities associated with the prerogative writs
 in England have no role to play under our consti­
 tutional scheme. There is no parallel system of
 King's Court in India and of all the other courts
 having limited jurisdiction subject to the supervi­
 sion of the King's Court. Courts are set up under
 the Constitution or the laws. All the courts in the
 jurisdiction of a High Court are subordinate to it
 and subject to its control and supervision under Article 227. Writ jurisdiction is constitutionally
 conferred on all the High Courts. Broad principles Page 48 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT of writ jurisdiction followed in England are applic­
 able to India and a writ of certiorari lies against
 patently erroneous or without jurisdiction orders
 of tribunals or authorities or courts other than ju­
 dicial courts. There are no precedents in India for
 the High Courts to issue writs to the subordinate
 courts. Control of working of the subordinate
 courts in dealing with their judicial orders is exer­
 cised by way of appellate or revisional powers or
 power of superintendence under Article 227. Or­
 ders of the civil court stand on different footing
 from the orders of authorities or tribunals or
 courts other than judicial/civil courts. While ap­
 pellate or revisional jurisdiction is regulated by the
 statutes, power of superintendence under Article
 227 is constitutional. The expression "inferior
 court" is not referable to the judicial courts, as
 rightly observed in the referring order1 in paras 26
 and 27 quoted above. 26. The Bench in Surya Dev Rai also observed in
 para 25 of its judgment that distinction between Articles 226 and 227 stood almost obliterated. In
 para 24 of the said judgment distinction in the two
 articles has been noted. In view thereof, observa­
 tion that scope of Articles 226 and 227 was oblit­
 erated was not correct as rightly observed1 by the
 referring Bench in para 32 quoted above. We make
 it clear that though despite the curtailment of revi­
 sional jurisdiction under Section 115 CPC by Act
 46 of 1999, jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 227 remains unaffected, it has been
 wrongly assumed in certain quarters that the said
 jurisdiction has been expanded. Scope of Article
 227 has been explained in several decisions in­
 cluding Waryam Singh v. Amarnath , Ouseph
 Mathai v. M. Abdul Khadir , Shalini Shyam Shetty
 v. Rajendra Shankar Patil and Sameer Suresh
 Gupta v. Rahul Kumar Agarwal . In Shalini Shyam
 Shetty this Court observed: (SCC p. 352, paras 64­ 67)
 "64. However, this Court unfortunately discerns
 that of late there is a growing trend amongst sever­
 al High Courts to entertain writ petition in cases of
 pure property disputes. Disputes relating to parti­ Page 49 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT tion suits, matters relating to execution of a de­
 cree, in cases of dispute between landlord and ten­
 ant and also in a case of money decree and in vari­
 ous other cases where disputed questions of prop­
 erty are involved, writ courts are entertaining such
 disputes. In some cases the High Courts, in a
 routine manner, entertain petitions under Article
 227 over such disputes and such petitions are
 treated as writ petitions. 65. We would like to make it clear that in view of
 the law referred to above in cases of property
 rights and in disputes between private individuals
 writ court should not interfere unless there is any
 infraction of statute or it can be shown that a
 private individual is acting in collusion with a stat­
 utory authority. 66. We may also observe that in some High Courts
 there is a tendency of entertaining petitions under Article 227 of the Constitution by terming them as
 writ petitions. This is sought to be justified on an
 erroneous appreciation of the ratio in Surya Dev2
 and in view of the recent amendment to Section
 115 of the Civil Procedure Code by the Civil Pro­
 cedure Code (Amendment) Act, 1999. It is urged
 that as a result of the amendment, scope of Sec­
 tion 115 CPC has been curtailed. In our view, even
 if the scope of Section 115 CPC is curtailed that
 has not resulted in expanding the High Court's
 power of superintendence. It is too well known to
 be reiterated that in exercising its jurisdiction,
 High Court must follow the regime of law. 67. As a result of frequent interference by the
 Hon'ble High Court either under Article 226 or 227
 of the Constitution with pending civil and at times
 criminal cases, the disposal of cases by the civil
 and criminal courts gets further impeded and thus
 causing serious problems in the administration of
 justice. This Court hopes and trusts that in exer­
 cising its power either under Article 226 or 227,
 the Hon'ble High Court will follow the time­hon­
 oured principles discussed above. Those principles
 have been formulated by this Court for ends of
 justice and the High Courts as the highest courts Page 50 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT of justice within their jurisdiction will adhere to
 them strictly." 27. Thus, we are of the view that judicial orders of
 civil courts are not amenable to a writ of certiorari
 under Article 226. We are also in agreement with
 the view1 of the referring Bench that a writ of
 mandamus does not lie against a private person
 not discharging any public duty. Scope of Article
 227 is different from Article 226. 28. We may also deal with the submission made
 on behalf of the respondent that the view in Surya
 Dev Rai stands approved by larger Benches in
 Shail, Mahendra Saree Emporium (2) and Salem
 Advocate Bar Assn. (2) and on that ground correct­
 ness of the said view cannot be gone into by this
 Bench. In Shail, though reference has been made
 to Surya Dev Rai, the same is only for the purpose
 of scope of power under Article 227 as is clear
 from para 3 of the said judgment . There is no dis­
 cussion on the issue of maintainability of a peti­
 tion under Article 226. In Mahendra Saree Em­
 porium (2)7, reference to Surya Dev Rai2 is made
 in para 9 of the judgment only for the proposition
 that no subordinate legislation can whittle down
 the jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution.
 Similarly, in Salem Advocate Bar Assn. (2) in para
 40, reference to Surya Dev Rai is for the same pur­
 pose. We are, thus, unable to accept the submis­
 sion of the learned counsel for the respondent. x) M/s. Indian Farmers Fertilizers Co­operative
 Limited v. M/s Bhadra Products (order dated 23d
 January, 2018 in Civil Appeal No.824/2018), wherein
 it is held as under : 21. That "jurisdiction" is a coat of many colours,
 and that the said word displays a certain colour
 depending upon the context in which it is
 mentioned, is well­settled. In the classic sense, in
 Official Trustee v. Sachindra Nath Chatterjee, (1969) 3
 SCR 92 at 99, "jurisdiction" is stated to be: (Mukherjee, Acting CJ, speaking for Full Bench of
 the Calcutta High Court in Hirday Nath Roy v.
 Ramachandra Barna Sarma ILR 68 Cal." xi) State of West Bengal v. Sarkar & Sarkar reported in 2018 (12) SCC 736, wherein it is held as
 under : 5.1) Relying upon the aforesaid dictum of law, it was
 submitted that the any order passed during arbitration
 proceeding can be challenged by certiorari before the High
 Court under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of
 India. It was submitted that in facts of the case,
 preliminary objections raised by the petitioner was
 required to be considered in view of decision of Apex Court
 in case of A Ayyasamy v. A Paramasivam and others reported in AIR 2016 Supreme Court 4675, wherein the
 Apex Court has considered as to whether the dispute
 raised in the suit is capable of settlement through
 arbitration or not. The Apex Court was considering the Page 55 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT issue with regard to question of resorting to arbitration in a
 suit where serious allegations of fraud were made. It was
 therefore, submitted by the learned advocate for the
 petitioner that the petition is maintainable and is also
 required to be entertained by this Court. It was also
 submitted that if the impugned order passed by the
 arbitrator is allowed to remain in existence without any
 challenge at this stage, then the petitioner would be
 required to undergo rigors of arbitration proceedings. It
 was therefore, submitted that when there are serious
 allegations of fraud, they are to be treated as non
 arbitrable and it is only the Civil Court which should
 decide such matters. 5.2) Learned advocate for the petitioner thereafter addressed
 the issues on merits to justify that the reasoning given by
 the learned arbitrator to reject the application raising
 preliminary objections filed by the petitioner is required to
 be considered in this petition and pointed out that learned
 arbitrator did not consider the disputes between the
 parties, FIR, charge­sheet and the principle of law laid
 down by the Apex Court in case of A Ayyasamy (supra). 5.3) Learned advocate for the petitioner thereafter made
 submissions that the Arbitration Tribunal was not justified
 in treating the application filed by the petitioner under section 16 of the Act, 1996 and submitted that the issue of
 whether dispute between the parties is capable of
 settlement through arbitration, travels beyond the four
 corners of section 16 of the Act, 1996 which provides for
 competence of Arbitration Tribunal to rule on its Page 56 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT jurisdiction. It was submitted that plea of non arbitrable
 issues can be raised by the petitioner and same cannot be
 considered under section 16 of the Act, 1996 when the
 petitioner filed application raising preliminary objections
 on the basis of decision of Apex Court and not under section 16 of the Act, 1996. 5.4) It was submitted that the decision of the Apex Court in
 case of M/s. S.B.P. and Co. v. M/s. Patel Engineering
 Ltd. and Anr. (supra) cannot be read as a blanket bar
 against the remedy of challenging those orders of Arbitral
 Tribunal which are inconsistent with the judgment of the
 Supreme Court. It was therefore, prayed that impugned
 order can be challenged Article 226 and/or 227 of the
 Constitution of India because Arbitration Tribunal cannot
 be permitted to continue with arbitration proceedings when
 dispute is non arbitrable as there are serious allegations of
 fraud leveled by the petitioner which requires evidence for
 deciding the issue pertaining to criminal offences for which
 criminal proceedings are pending before the appropriate
 Court. 5.5) Learned advocate for the petitioner invited the attention
 of the Court to the charge­sheet produced at pages 97 and
 98 of the paper book to contend that the criminal
 proceedings are pending with regard to offence under
 sections 408, 409, 120­B, 34 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 65 and 66(D) of the Information and Technology
 Act, 2008 and therefore, the order passed by the Arbitral
 Tribunal rejecting the preliminary objections of non
 arbitrable issue is required to be considered by this Court Page 57 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT under Articles 226 and/or 227 of the Constitution. 5.6) In view of above submissions, learned advocate for the
 petitioner submitted that the High Court is not denuded of
 powers under Articles 226 and/or 227 of the Constitution
 of India. It was therefore, submitted that in peculiar facts
 of the case , the impugned order of the Arbitration tribunal
 can be challenged by certiorari in the petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. 6. On the other hand, learned advocate Mr. Shivang Shukla
 for the respondent submitted that section 5 of the Act,
 1996 provides for extent of judicial intervention. It was
 submitted that section 5 of the Act, 1996 provides that
 notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
 the time being in force, in matters governed by this part,
 no judicial authority shall intervene except where so
 provided in this part. Learned advocate for the respondent
 thereafter invited the attention of the Court to section 16 of
 the Act,1996 which provides for competence of Arbitration
 Tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction and sub­section(6) of section 16 of the Act, 1996 which provides that a party
 aggrieved by such an arbitral award may make an
 application for setting aside such an arbitral award in
 accordance with section 34 of the Act, 1996. In view of
 such provisions, it was submitted that there is a remedy
 available to the petitioner under section 34 of the Act, 1996
 for setting aside the arbitral award. It was therefore,
 submitted that the impugned order passed by the Tribunal
 cannot be challenged by petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. 6.1) Learned advocate for the respondent placed reliance on
 the decision of Supreme Court in case of M/s. S.B.P. and
 Co. v. M/s. Patel Engineering Ltd. and Anr.(supra). 6.2) Reliance was placed on the decision of Supreme Court in
 case of Lalitkumar v. Sanghavi (Dead ) through Lrs. Neeta Lalit Kumar Sanghavi and another v. Dharamdas v. Sanghavi and others reported in (2014) 7 Supreme
 Court Cases 255. wherein the Apex Court has held as
 under : 6.3) Learned advocate for the respondent also placed
 reliance upon the decision of the Apex Court in case of
 M/s. Sterling Industries v. Jayprakash Associates Ltd &
 Ors. (Order dated 10th July, 2019 in Civil Appeal No. 7117­
 7118 of 2017), wherein the Apex Court relying upon the
 decision of Apex Court in case of M/s. S.B.P. and Co. v.
 M/s. Patel Engineering Ltd. and Anr.(supra) has
 categorically held that writ petition could not have been
 entertained by the High Court in view of provisions of section 16(6) of the Act, 1996. 6.4) It was therefore, submitted that the impugned order
 passed by the Arbitral Tribunal rejecting the preliminary
 objections raised by the petitioner is just and proper and
 such order cannot be challenged before this Court under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. It was
 further submitted that the decision relied upon on behalf of Page 60 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT the petitioner are pertaining to adjudication on merits after
 the Arbitration award is passed by the Arbitration
 Tribunal. It was therefore, submitted that when the
 Supreme Court in case of M/s. S.B.P. and Co. v. M/s.
 Patel Engineering Ltd. and Anr.(supra) has categorically
 held that the very object of the Act, 1996 for minimum
 judicial intervention would be defeated if the order passed
 the Arbitration Tribunal during Arbitration proceeding are
 allowed to be challenged by certiorari under Articles 226 and/or 227 of the Constitution of India. 6.5) Learned advocate for the respondent, further relied upon
 the provision of section 37 of the Act, 1996 and submitted
 that if the petitioner is aggrieved by order of the Tribunal,
 the petitioner is required to wait until the award is passed
 by the Tribunal to challenge the award under section 34 of
 the Act,1996.. It was also submitted that the Arbitral
 Tribunal is a forum which is chosen by the parties to the
 arbitration agreement and therefore, order passed by such
 forum is required to be challenged as per the provisions of
 the Act, 1996 and cannot be challenged by certiorari so as
 to defeat the very purpose of the arbitration. 6.6) Learned advocate for the respondent submitted on
 merits that there is clear finding of the Tribunal that
 though the charge­sheet is filed against the respondent,
 the petitioner will have to prove the case beyond
 reasonable doubt before the Criminal Court. However, the
 Tribunal has also found that allegations of fraud leveled
 against the respondent by the petitioner are not
 complicated at all. It was held by the Tribunal that the Page 61 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT contract was not terminated by the petitioner after noticing
 the fraud and permitted the respondent to work up to end
 of November, 2016. The Tribunal therefore, was of the
 opinion that the disputes between the parties is nothing
 but the matter of accounts vis­a­vis the work done and
 service rendered by the respondent and such case can be
 decided by the Tribunal, more particularly, when the
 disputes are referred by the High Court under section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 for arbitration. 6.7) With regard to the contention raised by the petitioner
 that the application filed by the petitioner is not under section 16 of the Act, 1996 when the issue is non
 arbitrable and such application cannot be considered as
 application under section 16 of the Act, learned Advocate
 for respondent submitted that such contention is not
 tenable in law as the petitioner has challenged the
 competence of the Arbitral Tribunal to proceed with the
 arbitration on alleged non arbitrable issues and, in the
 facts of the case, when this Court has referred the matter
 to arbitration while invoking powers under section 11(6) of
 the Act,1996, any dispute raised by the petitioner with
 regard to competence of the Arbitral Tribunal would be
 covered by section 16 of the Act, 1996. Accordingly, such
 order passed by the Arbitral Tribunal would be under section 16 of the Act, 1996 and remedy to challenge such
 order would be under section 34 of the Act,1996. 7. Having heard learned advocate for the respective parties
 and having gone through the materials on record, it would
 be germane to refer to various provisions of the Act, 1996 Page 62 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT so as to answer the question as to whether the any order
passed during arbitration proceedings can be challenged
by certiorari under Articles 226 and/or 227 of the
Constitution of India or not: • Section"2(e) "Court" means ­ (i) in the case of an arbitrator other than
 international commercial arbitration, the principal
 Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district, and
 includes the High Court in exercise of its ordinary
 original civil jurisdiction, having jurisdiction to
 decide the questions forming the subject­matter of
 the arbitration if the same had been the subject­
 matter of a suit, but does not include any Civil
 Court of a grade inferior to such principal Civil
 Court, or any Court of Small Causes Court (ii) in the case of international commercial
 arbitration, the High Court in exercise of its
 ordinary original civil jurisdiction, having
 jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the
 subject­matter of the arbitration, if the same had
 been the subject­matter of a suit and in other
 cases a High Court having jurisdiction to hear
 appeals from decrees of courts subordinate to that
 High Court." • Section 5 . "Extent of judicial intervention -
 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law
 for the time being in force, in matters governed by
 this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except
 where so provided in this Part." • Section 7. " Arbitration agreement. -- (1) In this Part, "arbitration agreement" means an
 agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration
 all or certain disputes which have arisen or which
 may arise between them in respect of a defined Page 63 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT legal relationship, whether contractual or not. (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of
 an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form
 of a separate agreement. (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing. (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is
 contained in-- (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other
 means of telecommunication (including
 communication through electronic means) which
 provide a record of the agreement; or (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence
 in which the existence of the agreement is alleged
 by one party and not denied by the other. (5) The reference in a contract to a document
 containing an arbitration clause constitutes an
 arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing
 and the reference is such as to make that
 arbitration clause part of the contract." • Section 11. " Appointment of arbitrators ­
 xxxxx
 (6) Where, under an appointment procedure
 agreed upon by the parties,-- (a) a party fails to act as required under that
 procedure; or (b) the parties, or the two appointed arbitrators,
 fail to reach an agreement expected of them under
 that procedure; or (c) a person, including an institution, fails to
 perform any function entrusted to him or it under
 that procedure, Page 64 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT a party may request (the Supreme Court or, as the
 case may be, the High Court or any person or
 institution designated by such Court) to take the
 necessary measure, unless the agreement on the
 appointment procedure provides other means for
 securing the appointment." • Section 16. " Competence of arbitral tribunal to
 rule on its jurisdiction.-- (1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own
 jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections
 with respect to the existence or validity of the
 arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,-- (a) an arbitration clause which forms part of a
 contract shall be treated as an agreement
 independent of the other terms of the contract;
 and (b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the
 contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure
 the invalidity of the arbitration clause.
 (2) A plea that the arbitral tribunal does not have
 jurisdiction shall be raised not later than the
 submission of the statement of defence; however, a
 party shall not be precluded from raising such a
 plea merely because that he has appointed, or
 participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator.
 (3) A plea that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the
 scope of its authority shall be raised as soon as
 the matter alleged to be beyond the scope of its
 authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings.
 (4) The arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases
 referred to in sub­section (2) or sub­section (3),
 admit a later plea if it considers the delay justified.
 (5) The arbitral tribunal shall decide on a plea
 referred to in sub­section (2) or sub­section (3)
 and, where the arbitral tribunal takes a decision
 rejecting the plea, continue with the arbitral
 proceedings and make an arbitral award.
 (6) A party aggrieved by such an arbitral award
 may make an application for setting aside such an
 arbitral award in accordance with section 34." • Section 34 "Application for setting aside Page 65 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT arbitral award. -- (1) Recourse to a Court against an arbitral award
 may be made only by an application for setting
 aside such award in accordance with sub­section
 (2) and sub­section (3). (2) An arbitral award may be set aside by the Court
 only if-- (a) the party making the application furnishes
 proof that-- (i) a party was under some incapacity, or (ii) the arbitration agreement is not valid under the
 law to which the parties have subjected it or,
 failing any indication thereon, under the law for
 the time being in force; or (iii) the party making the application was not given
 proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator
 or of the arbitral proceedings or was otherwise
 unable to present his case; or (iv) the arbitral award deals with a dispute not
 contemplated by or not falling within the terms of
 the submission to arbitration, or it contains
 decisions on matters beyond the scope of the
 submission to arbitration: Explanation 1 - For the avoidance of any doubt, Page 66 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT it is clarified that an award is in conflict with the
 public policy of India, only if­ (i) the making of the award was induced or affected
 by fraud or corruption or was in violation of
 section 75 or section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental
 policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions of
 morality or justice
 Explanation ­2 For the avoidance of doubt, the
 test as to whether there is a contravention with
 the fundamental policy of India law shall not entail
 a review on the merits of the dispute. (2A) An arbitral award arising out of arbitrations
 other than international commercial arbitrations
 may also be set aside by the Court, if the Court
 finds that the award is vitiated by patent illegality
 appearing on the face of the award; Provided that an award shall not be set aside
 merely on the ground of an erroneous application
 of the law or by re­appreciation of evidence
 under section 81. (3) An application for setting aside may not be
 made after three months have elapsed from the
 date on which the party making that application
 had received the arbitral award or, if a request had
 been made under section 33, from the date on
 which that request had been disposed of by the
 arbitral tribunal: 8. The above provisions of the Act, 1996 provides for complete
 procedure as an alternative to normal procedure for
 adjudication of disputes before the Civil Court under the
 provisions of the Code of Civil procedure,1908. 9. The Supreme Court in case of M/s. S.B.P. and Co. v. M/s. Patel Engineering Ltd. and Anr.(supra) after analyzing
provisions of the Act, 1996 has held as under : and Anr. v. Rani Construction Pvt. Ltd. (2002) 2 SCC
 388 is overruled." 10. It is pertinent to note that in minority judgment of the Apex Page 71 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Court in case of M/s. S.B.P. and Co. v. M/s. Patel
Engineering Ltd. and Anr.(supra) (Per : C.K.
Thakker,J.),while concurring with the majority view for the
issue with regard to challenge of any order passed during
arbitration proceedings by certiorari under Article 226/227
of the Constitution of India is succinctly discussed as
under : The competence­competence principle enables
 the arbitral tribunal to continue with the
 proceedings even where the existence or validity
 of the arbitration agreement has been
 challenged by one of the parties for reasons Page 73 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT directly affecting the arbitration agreement, and
 not simply on the basis of allegations that the
 main contract is void or otherwise ineffective.
 The principle that the arbitration agreement is
 autonomous of the main contract is sufficient to
 resist a claim that the arbitration agreement is
 void because the contract containing it is
 invalid, but it does not enable the arbitrators to
 proceed with the arbitration where the alleged
 invalidity directly concerns the arbitration
 agreement. That is a consequence of the
 competence­competence principle alone. The
 competence­competence principle also allows
 arbitrators to determine that an arbitration
 agreement is invalid and to make an award
 declaring that they lack jurisdiction without
 contradicting themselves. Of course, neither of those effects results from
 the arbitration agreement. If that were the case,
 one would immediately be confronted with the
 "vicious circle" argument put forward by
 authors opposed to the competence­
 competence principle: how can an arbitrator,
 solely on the basis of an arbitration agreement,
 declare that agreement to be void or even hear a
 claim to that effect? The answer is simple: the
 basis for the competence­ competence principle
 lies not in the arbitration agreement, but in the
 arbitration laws of the country where the
 arbitration is held and, more generally, in the
 laws of all countries liable to recognize an
 award made by arbitrators concerning their
 own jurisdiction. For example, an international
 arbitral tribunal sitting in France can properly
 make an award declaring that it lacks
 jurisdiction for want of a valid arbitration
 agreement, because it does so on the basis of
 French arbitration law, and not on the basis of
 the arbitration agreement held to be non­
 existent or invalid. Similarly, it is perfectly
 logical for the interested party to rely on that
 award in other jurisdictions, provided that
 those other jurisdictions also recognize the Page 74 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT competence­competence principle. As we shall
 now see, the legal basis for the principle does
 not prejudice the subsequent review by the
 courts, in France or in the country where
 recognition is sought, of the arbitrators' finding
 that the arbitration agreement is non­existent
 or invalid. 659. ­ Even today, the competence­competence
 principle is all too often interpreted as
 empowering the arbitrators to be the sole
 judges of their jurisdiction. That would be
 neither logical nor acceptable. In fact, the real
 purpose of the rule is in no way to leave the
 question of the arbitrators' jurisdiction in the
 hands of the arbitrators alone. Their
 jurisdiction must instead be reviewed by the
 courts if an action is brought to set aside or to
 enforce the award. Nevertheless, the
 competence­ competence rule ties in with the
 idea that there are no grounds for the prima
 facie suspicion that the arbitrators themselves
 will not be able to reach decisions which are fair
 and protect the interests of society as well as
 those of the parties to the dispute. This same
 philosophy is also found in the context of
 arbitrability, where it serves as the basis for the
 case law which entrusts arbitrators with the
 task of applying rules of public policy (in areas
 such as antitrust law and the prevention of
 corruption), subject to subsequent review by
 the courts. 660. ­ However, it is important to recognize that
 the competence­competence rule has a dual
 function. Like the arbitration agreement, it has
 or may have both positive and negative effects,
 even if the latter have not yet been fully
 accepted in a number of jurisdictions. The
 positive effect of the competence­competence
 principle is to enable the arbitrators to rule on
 their own jurisdiction, as is widely recognized
 by international conventions and by recent
 statutes on international arbitration. However,
 the negative effect is equally important. It is to Page 75 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT allow the arbitrators to be not the sole judges,
 but the first judges of their jurisdiction. In other
 words, it is to allow them to come to a decision
 on their jurisdiction prior to any court or other
 judicial authority, and thereby to limit the role
 of the courts to the review of the award. The
 principle of competence­competence thus
 obliges any court hearing a claim concerning
 the jurisdiction of an arbitral tribunal ­
 regarding, for example, the constitution of the
 tribunal or the validity of the arbitration
 agreement ­ to refrain from hearing substantive
 argument as to the arbitrators' jurisdiction until
 such time as the arbitrators themselves have
 had the opportunity to do so. In that sense, the
 competence­competence principle is a rule of
 chronological priority. Taking both of its facets
 into account, the competence­competence
 principle can be defined as the rule whereby
 arbitrators must have the first opportunity to
 hear challenges relating to their jurisdiction,
 subject to subsequent review by the courts.
 From a practical standpoint, the rule is
 intended to ensure that a party cannot succeed
 in delaying the arbitral proceedings by alleging
 that the arbitration agreement is invalid or non­
 existent. Such delay is avoided by allowing the
 arbitrators to rule on this issue themselves,
 subject to subsequent review by the courts, and
 by inviting the courts to refrain from
 intervening until the award has been made.
 Nevertheless, the interests of parties with
 legitimate claims concerning the invalidity of
 the arbitration agreement are not unduly
 prejudiced, because they will be able to bring
 those claims before the arbitrators themselves
 and, should the arbitrators choose to reject
 them, before the courts thereafter. The competence­competence rule thus concerns
 not only the positive, but also the negative
 effects of the arbitration agreement."
 xxx 98. In the instant case, according to the majority, Page 76 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Section 16(1) only makes explicit what is even
 otherwise implicit, namely, that the tribunal has
 the jurisdiction to rule its own jurisdiction,
 'including ruling on any objections with respect to
 the existence or validity of the arbitration
 agreement.' 99. So far, so good and I am in respectful
 agreement with these observations. The matter,
 however, does not rest there. Over and above Sub­
 section (1), Section 16 contains other sub­sections
 and in particular, Sub­sections (5) and (6). The
 former requires the tribunal to continue the
 proceedings in case it decides that the tribunal
 has jurisdiction in the matter and the latter
 provides remedy to the aggrieved party. 100. In my opinion, conjoint reading of Sub­
 sections (1), (4), (5) and (6) makes it abundantly
 clear that the provision is 'self­contained' and
 deals with all cases, even those wherein the plea
 as to want of jurisdiction has been rejected. As a
 general rule, such orders are subject to certiorari
 jurisdiction since a court of limited jurisdiction or
 an inferior tribunal by wrongly interpreting a
 statutory provision cannot invest itself with the
 jurisdiction which it otherwise does not possess.
 But it is always open to a competent Legislature to
 invest a tribunal of limited jurisdiction with the
 power to decide or determine finally the
 preliminary or jurisdictional facts on which
 exercise of its jurisdiction depends. In such cases,
 the finding recorded by the tribunal cannot be
 challenged by certiorari. ( Vide Ujjam Bai v. State of
 U.P .) xxx 109. As already indicated by me earlier, Sub­
 section (1) of Section 16 does not merely enable the
 Arbitral Tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction,
 but requires it to continue arbitral proceedings
 and pass an arbitral award. [Sub­section (5)] It
 allows the aggrieved party to make an application
 for setting aside the award in accordance with
 Section 34. [Sub­section (6)]. Thus, in my Page 77 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT judgment, Section 16 can be described as 'self­
 contained Code' as regards the challenge to the
 jurisdiction of Arbitral Tribunal. As per the scheme
 envisaged by Parliament, once the Arbitral
 Tribunal rules that it has jurisdiction, it will
 proceed to decide the matter on merits and make
 an award. Parliament has also provided the
 remedy to the aggrieved party by enacting that he
 may make an application under Section 34 of the
 Act. In the circumstances, the proceedings cannot
 be allowed to be arrested or interference permitted
 during the pendency of arbitration proceedings." 11. At this stage, the judgments cited by the learned
 advocate for the petitioner are dealt with as under: The Apex Court was not considering the issue as to
 whether in writ jurisdiction, the order of Arbitral
 Tribunal can be challenged rejecting the preliminary
 objection of the petitioner. ii) In case of Punjab Agro Industries Corpn Ltd v.
 Kewal Singh Dhillon (supra), the Apex Court was
 considering the maintainability of writ petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India
 against the order passed under section 11 of the Act,
 1996 and was not considering the order passed in the
 arbitral proceedings. Therefore, this decision would
 not be of any assistance to the petitioner. iii) In the decision in case of Vidya Drolia v. Durga
 Trading Corporation (supra) relied by the petitioner,
 the Apex Court considered the issue of arbitrability
 with regard to tenancy agreement in view of specific
 provisions of Tenancy Act and Transfer of Property
 Act. The issue before the Apex Court was whether the
 Act, 1996 stands excluded. The Apex Court was thus
 considering the judgment of the High Court
 appointing an arbitrator after rejecting the objection
 of arbitrability of the disputes between the parties. In
 the aforesaid decision, the issue as to whether the
 writ is maintainable against the order of the Tribunal
 deciding the issue of arbitrability of the agreement
 was not at large before the Apex Court. iv) In the decision of the Apex Court in case of M/s. Mayavti Trading Pvt. Ltd v. Pradyuat Deb Burman (supra), the issue for consideration was of provisions
 of sub­section(6A) of section 11 as amended by the Amending Act of 2015. Therefore, this decision would
 also be of no help to the petitioner as the same was
 with regard to amendment to section 11 of the Act,
 1996. v) Decision of the Apex Court in case of Duro
 Felguera SA v. Gangavaram Port Limited (supra)
 relied by the petitioner was also considered in the
 aforesaid decision in case of M/s. Mayavti Trading
 Pvt. Ltd (supra), more particularly, paragraphs no.
 48 and 59 which also deals with the provisions of
 sub­section(6A) of section 11 added by the Amending Page 79 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Act, 2015. Therefore, such decision also would not be
 applicable with regard to maintainability or
 entertainability of the writ petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. vi) Similarly in decision in case of State of Rajasthan
 v. Lord Northbrook (supra), the Apex Court was
 considering the decision of the High Court quashing
 the communication/orders passed by the Deputy
 Secretary, Revenue in the matter of taking over the
 properties of Sh. Raja Sardar Singh by the State
 under Rajasthan Escheats Regulation Act, 1956 . The
 Apex Court has considered the discretion of the High
 Court to entertain the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India vis­a­vis the availability of
 efficacious alternative remedy. It was in such facts
 that the Apex Court has examined the issue of
 entertaining the writ petition. In such circumstances,
 whether a writ petition is required to be entertained
 against the order passed by the Tribunal under the
 provisions of Act, 1996 was not examined by the
 Apex Court. Therefore, reliance placed by the
 petitioner on this decision would be of no assistance
 to it. vii) Reliance placed by the petitioner on the decision
 of Ameet Lalchand Shah and otrs.v. Rishabh
 Enterprises and ors. (supra) of the Apex Court is
 also not helpful to decide the issue on hand, as in
 the said case, the Apex Court was considering as to
 whether the decision of the High Court in affirming Page 80 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT the order dismissing the application under section 9 of the Act, 1996 whereby it was held that agreement
 between the parties are not interconnected with the
 principal agreement and therefore, parties cannot be
 referred to arbitration. The Apex Court was not
 considering the issue as to whether writ petition
 challenging the order passed by the Arbitration
 Tribunal should be entertained or not. Therefore, in
 facts of the present case when the Arbitration
 Tribunal has passed the impugned order during the
 course of arbitration proceedings, whether it can be
 challenged by writ of certiorari or not was not the
 issue before the Apex Court. viii) In case of Radhey Shyam and anr. v. Shhabi
 Natha and ors. (supra) also the Apex Court was
 considering whether the order of the Civil Court was
 amenable to writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India or not. The Apex Court
 therefore, was not considering as to whether the
 order passed by the Arbitral Tribunal under the Act,
 1996 can be challenged by the writ petition or not. ix) Similarly in the decision of Apex Court in case of
 M/s. Indian Farmers Fertilizers Co­operative
 Limited v. M/s Bhadra Products (supra) relied upon
 by the petitioner, the Apex Court was considering
 whether the award delivered by the arbitrator which
 decided the issue of limitation, can be said to be an
 interim award and whether such interim award can
 be set aside under Act, 1996 or not. Therefore, the Page 81 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT observations made by the Apex Court in paragraphs
 no. 20 and 21 relied upon by the petitioner would be
 of no assistance in the facts of the present case. x) In case of State of West Bengal v. Sarkar &
 Sarkar (supra), the Apex Court was dealing with the
 order passed under section 11 of the Act, 1996 to
 decide the disputes arising in the matter and case of
 raising counter claim and challenge to the order
 passed by the High Court appointing the arbitrator
 was made before the Apex Court. Therefore, the Apex
 Court was not concerned with the challenge to order
 passed by the arbitrator allowing the application filed
 before the Tribunal with regard to issue of arbitrability
 in the said case. 12. It would be fruitful to take note of the following
 decisions of various High Courts wherein it is held that
 order passed by the Arbitration Tribunal cannot be
 challenged by invoking Article 226/227 of the Constitution
 of India: 2. The Delhi High Court in case of ATV Projects India

 Ltd. v. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. & Anr. reported in,
 2013 SCC OnLine Del 1669 has held thus: The emphasis of the Arbitration Act is to
 provide an alternative dispute resolution
 mechanism. The provisions of the Act ought to
 be interpreted in a manner that would make
 such adjudication effective and not in a manner
 that would make arbitration proceedings
 cumbersome. A view that the arbitral tribunal is
 precluded, even where sufficient cause exists,
 from reviving the arbitral proceedings and the
 only remedy available to a party is a writ Page 89 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT petition and which remedy is available only in
 the High Court often situated at a distance from
 the place where the parties are located, would
 be a deterrent to arbitration. It is also worth
 mentioning that Section 19(2) of the Act permits
 the parties to agree on the procedure to be
 followed by the arbitral tribunal. The parties
 may, while so laying down the procedure,
 provide for the remedy of review/revival of
 arbitral proceedings and which agreement
 would be binding on the arbitral tribunal. If the
 arbitral tribunal in such a situation would be
 empowered to, on sufficient cause being,
 shown, revive the arbitral proceedings, we see
 no reason to, in the absence of such an
 agreement hold the arbitral tribunal to be not
 empowered to do so. If it were to be held that
 such power of review/recall is not available to
 an arbitral tribunal, the arbitral tribunal would
 not be competent to set aside an order under
 Section 25(b) also, compelling the respondent
 against whom proceedings have been
 continued, to file a writ petition, making the
 continuation of proceedings before the arbitral
 tribunal a useless exercise. 19. Before parting with the said line of
 reasoning, the consequences of the arbitral
 tribunal entertaining such procedural review
 may also be discussed. If the Arbitral Tribunal
 finds sufficient cause and restores the arbitral
 proceedings, the challenge to such order of
 restoration would lie along with challenge to the
 award itself if against such aggrieved party.
 However if the arbitral tribunal does not accept
 as sufficient, the cause furnished for default,
 the arbitral tribunal would necessarily give
 reasons therefor within the meaning of Section
 31 and such order of the Arbitral Tribunal
 would definitely constitute an award remedy
 where against would be available under Section
 34 of the Act. The definition in Section 2(1)(c) of
 the Act of an "arbitral award" is an inclusive
 one i.e. of the same including an interim award; else an arbitration award is not defined.
 However, sub­Section (1) of Section 32 provides
 for termination of arbitral proceedings either by
 an arbitral award or by an Order of the arbitral
 tribunal under sub­Section (2) of Section 32. An
 order of dismissal of an application for
 review/recall of an order under Section 25(a)
 does not fall under any of the clauses in sub­
 Section (2) of Section 32. The same thus has to
 necessarily fall within the meaning of award. 20. We are further of the view that, the
 proceedings under the Arbitration Act cannot at
 all times be viewed through the prism of CPC . The Act equates the award to a 'decree' only for
 the purposes of the enforcement thereof under
 Section 36 and our concepts and terminology of
 a suit cannot otherwise be applied to arbitration
 proceedings. The Supreme Court in Paramjeet
 Singh Patheja v. ICDS Ltd. , (2006) 13 SCC 322
 held that the legal fiction of equating the award
 to a decree is for the limited purpose of
 enforcement and not intended to make an
 award a decree for all purposes. Ordinarily even
 the default termination order under Section
 25(a) would be an award, with the remedy
 however available to the party of approaching
 the arbitral tribunal with sufficient cause for
 setting aside of the default termination order.
 We may in this regard notice that Section 34
 allows an arbitral award to be set aside when a
 party was under some incapacity or when
 proper notice of the arbitral proceedings was
 not served or when the party was otherwise
 unable to present his case. The said grounds for
 setting aside would be invoked only if orders as
 under Section 25(a) were to be an award and
 there would have been no occasion for the
 legislature to provide such grounds under
 Section 34 if default orders were not to be an
 award. The same also follows from sub­Section
 (4) of Section 34 whereunder, upon challenge
 under Section 34 being made to such
 termination, the Court has been empowered to Page 91 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT relegate the parties to the arbitral tribunal. We
 see no reason to not hold an order under
 Section 25(a) to be an award merely because
 the remedy of appeal against orders of
 terminations under Section 16(2) & (3) has been
 provided. Further, the order under Section
 25(a), stating default on the part of the party,
 would satisfy the requirement of the award to
 contain reasons. Moreover, merely because the
 arbitral tribunal fails to give any reasons cannot
 be a ground for making its orders unassailable
 under Section 34. 21. It cannot be lost sight of that though in the
 present case one of the contracting parties is
 Government but it may not always be so. The
 law of arbitration in the Act is the same,
 whether the contracting parties are
 Government/State within the meaning of Article
 12 of the Constitution of India or private
 parties. What has been held by the Bombay,
 Patna and the Allahabad High Courts would
 equally apply to arbitration between the private
 parties and would tantamount to the
 jurisdiction under Article 226 being invoked
 against such private arbitrators and the parties.
 We are in the present state of affairs not
 prepared to hold so especially when in our view
 the remedy within the Act is available. In this
 regard it may be noticed that the Madras High
 Court in Mangayarkarasi Apparels P.
 Ltd. v. Sundaram Finance Ltd. has disagreed
 with An uptech Equipments Private Ltd. and
 held that the arbitral tribunal is not "other
 authority" within the meaning of Article 226 and writ remedy against the orders of the
 arbitral tribunal is not available." 14. We reiterate the same reasoning and owing
 whereto, we are unable to agree with the reasoning
 given by the learned Single Judge in the impugned
 judgment." 3. The Bombay High Court in case of Godawari Marath­

 wada Irrigation Development Corporation v. M/s.
 S.D. Shinde and Co. Engineers and Contractors
 reported in , 2014 SCC OnLine Bom 4033 has held as
 under: 4. The Bombay High Curt in case of The Chief Engineer,

 Public Works Department, Government of Goa v.
 M/s. Karnatak Cement Pipe Factory reported in 2018
 SCC OnLine Bom 4174 has held as under: 5. The Calcutta High Court in case of Heiza Boilers (I)

 Pvt. Ltd. and another v. Union of India and other
 reported in 2018 SCC OnLine Cal 5970 has held thus: "6. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is a
 consolidating and amending Act, which, by its very
 nature, implies that it is a Code by itself. Unless
 there are special provisions in some special stat­
 utes providing for a different mechanism for arbit­
 ration or the remedies therefrom, when matters
 pertaining to arbitration are sought to be ques­
 tioned in court, they have, per force, to be under
 the Act of 1996. Section 5 of the Act of 1996 man­
 dates that the court would interfere in matters
 pertaining to arbitration only to the extent as per­
 mitted by the statute. Indeed, areas which were
 within the exclusive domain of the court under the
 predecessor statute of 1940 have now been parked
 exclusively with the arbitral tribunal, particularly
 the authority of arbitral tribunal to rule on its own
 jurisdiction. Certain matters can be carried to
 court only at a certain stage. If, for instance, the
 arbitral tribunal upholds its jurisdiction to contin­
 ue with the arbitral reference despite an objection,
 the objector has to await the outcome of the refer­
 ence before resuming the challenge in course of
 proceedings under Section 34 of the Act of 1996. 7. In the present case, it appears that there was an
 agreement between the appellants and the Union
 through the office of the DGS&D. Certain disputes Page 96 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT as to a lot of supply arose and an arbitral refer­
 ence was commenced which culminated in the ref­
 erence being terminated under Section 32 thereof.
 As to whether a reference which was terminated
 under Section 32 of the Act could subsequently be
 revived or not was not a question of public law
 that could be addressed in proceedings under Art­
 icle 226 of the Constitution. Further, there was no
 public element in the DGS&D acting as the ap­
 pointing authority since he was only a creature of
 a contract. 8. In view of the fact that the remedy of the appel­
 lants lay completely within the four corners of the
 Act of 1996, the writ petition should never have
 been entertained, particularly in view of the
 dictum in SBP & Co. noticed above." 6. The Bombay High Court in case of Space Wood Office

 Solution Pvt. Ltd., Nagpur v. Anupam Rai Construc­ tion, Nagpur reported in 2019 SCC OnLine Bom 751
 has held as under: 7. The ratio of the decision in Patel Engineering
 Ltd. (supra) has been followed in Amur Tea Dis­
 tributors (supra) and a writ petition challenging an
 order passed by the sole Arbitrator with regard to
 termination of the proceedings was not enter­
 tained. The Division Bench of the Karnataka High
 Court in Radiant Infosystems Ltd. has also fol­
 lowed the aforesaid law and did not entertain the
 writ petition seeking to challenge an order passed
 by the Arbitrator in the matter of rejection of an
 application seeking permission to produce addi­
 tional documents. It is thus clear that the ratio of
 the decision in Patel Engineering Ltd. (supra) pre­
 cludes entertaining a challenge to an interlocutory
 order by invoking jurisdiction under Article 227 of
 the Constitution of India. Even though the power Page 98 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT of the High Courts to exercise judicial superin­
 tendence over decisions of all Courts and
 Tribunals forms the part of basic structure of the
 Constitution, same cannot justify interference at
 an interlocutory stage as sought to be urged. Moreover, the Tribunal referred to in Management
 Committee of Montfort Senior Secondary
 School (supra) was the Tribunal constituted under
 provisions of section 11 of the Delhi School Educa­
 tion Act, 1973 and not an arbitral Tribunal. 8. The ratio of the decision in Sanwal Coal Carri­
 ers (supra) wherein a challenge to an interim re­
 port of the Arbitrator was entertained cannot be
 applied to the case in hand. The facts of that case
 indicate that the learned Single Judge therein
 found that if the error in question that had arisen
 therein was not corrected at that stage, the same
 would be to the prejudice of all the parties. The
 aforesaid decision has been distinguished
 in Milind Dattatraya Mahajan (supra) by observing
 that the ratio of the decision in Sanwal Coal Carri­
 ers Limited (supra) was restricted to the facts of
 that case in the light of the interim report submit­
 ted by the Arbitrator therein. It was further ob­
 served that interlocutory orders cannot be subjec­
 ted to challenge during pendency of the arbitration
 proceedings. I am in respectful agreement with the
 observations of the learned Single Judge in Milind
 Dattatraya Mahajan (supra). As noted above, the
 orders under challenge relate merely to production
 of certain documents and framing of an additional
 issue. Such challenges are purely of an inter­
 locutory nature and same can be raised in pro­
 ceedings under section 37 of the Act of 1996 if the
 need so arises." 7. The Bombay High Court in case of Business India Ex­

 hibition Pvt. Ltd. and Others v. Arvind V. Sawant
 (Retd . Justice) and Other reported in 2019 SCC On­
 Line Bom 5487 has held as under: 8. The Delhi High Court in case of Tangirala Srinivasa
Gangadhara Baladitya v. Sanjay Aggarwal reported in 2019
SCC OnLine Del 9112 has held as under: After distilling the earlier decisions rendered by it
 on the scope of the powers exercised by the Chief
 Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of
 India under Section 11(6) of the A&C Act, the
 Supreme Court summed up its discussion in para
 47 of the captioned decision and declared that the
 said powers are not administrative in nature but
 are judicial powers. It was also observed that once
 a matter reaches the 'Arbitral Tribunal' or the 'Sole Page 101 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Arbitrator', the High Court would not interfere
 with the orders passed by the Arbitrator or the
 Arbitral Tribunal during the course of the
 arbitration proceedings and the parties could
 approach the Court only in terms of Section 37 of
 the Act or in terms of Section 34 of the Act. 8. Even otherwise, the mandate of Section 5 of the
 A&C Act, which is a non­obstante clause, is clear.
 It states in so many words that "notwithstanding
 anything contained in any other law for the time
 being in force, in matters governed by the Act, no
 judicial authority shall intervene except where so
 provided." The underlying object of the said provi­
 sion is to ensure that wherever parties have sub­
 mitted their disputes to an Arbitral Tribunal in
 terms of the Arbitration Agreement, resolution of
 the said disputes ought to be expedited without
 any scope of judicial intervention that may end up
 delaying the proceedings inordinately. The said
 view has been reiterated by the Supreme Court
 and the High Courts in several decisions. In the
 case of Patel Engineering (supra), the Supreme
 Court held that:-- 13. The following observations made by the Apex Court in
 recent decision in case of M/s. Deep Industries Limited
 v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (order dated 28th
 November, 2019 in Civil Appeal No.9106/2019) are also
 relevant : Section 37 grants a constricted right of first appeal
 against certain judgments and orders and no
 others. Further, the statutory mandate also
 provides for one bite at the cherry, and interdicts a
 second appeal being filed (See Section 37(2) of the
 Act) 13) This being the case, there is no doubt
 whatsoever that if petitions were to be filed under
 Articles 226/227 of the Constitution against
 orders passed in appeals under Section 37, the
 entire arbitral process would be derailed and
 would not come to fruition for many years. At the
 same time, we cannot forget that Article 227 is a
 constitutional provision which remains untouched
 by the non­obstante clause of Section 5 of the Act.
 In these circumstances, what is important to note
 is that though petitions can be filed under Article
 227 against judgments allowing or dismissing first
 appeals under Section 37 of the Act, yet the High
 Court would be extremely circumspect in
 interfering with the same, taking into account the
 statutory policy as adumbrated by us herein above
 so that interference is restricted to orders that are Page 103 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT passed which are patently lacking in inherent
 jurisdiction. 14) In Nivedita Sharma vs. Cellular Operators
 Association of India and Others, (2011) 14 SCC 337,
 this Court referred to several judgments and held: 13. In Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of
 Orissa (1983) 2 SCC 433, this court observed: 14. In Mafatlal Industries Ltd. v. Union of India (1997) 5 SCC 536, B.P. Jeevan Reddy, J.
 (speaking for the majority of the larger Bench)
 observed: 15. In the judgments relied upon by Shri
 Vaidyanathan, which, by and large, reiterate
 the proposition laid down in Baburam Prakash
 Chandra Maheshwari v. Antarim Zila Parishad AIR
 1969 SC 556, it has been held that an
 alternative remedy is not a bar to the
 entertaining of writ petition filed for the
 enforcement of any of the fundamental rights or
 where there has been a violation of the
 principles of natural justice or where the order
 under challenge is wholly without jurisdiction
 or the vires of the statute is under challenge. 16. It can, thus, be said that this Court has
 recognised some exceptions to the rule of
 alternative remedy. However, the proposition
 laid down in Thansingh Nathmal v. Superintendent of Taxes (supra) and other
 similar judgments that the High Court will not
 entertain a petition under Article 226 of the
 Constitution if an effective alternative remedy is
 available to the aggrieved person or the statute
 under which the action complained of has been Page 106 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT taken itself contains a mechanism for redressal
 of grievance still holds the field." In SBP & Co.
 (supra), this Court while considering
 interference with an order passed by an arbitral
 tribunal under Article 226/227 of the
 Constitution laid down as follows:­
 xxxx
 Therefore, it is necessary to indicate that once
 the arbitration has commenced in the arbitral
 tribunal, parties have to wait until the award is
 pronounced unless, of course, a right of appeal is
 available to them under Section 37 of the Act
 even at an earlier stage." While the learned
 Additional Solicitor General is correct in stating
 that this statement of the law does not directly
 apply on the facts of the present case, yet it is
 important to notice that the seven­Judge Bench
 has referred to the object of the Act being that of
 minimizing judicial intervention and that this
 important object should always be kept in the
 forefront when a 227 petition is being disposed of
 against proceedings that are decided under the
 Act." 14. In view of aforesaid conspectus of law, and considering the
 provisions of the Act, 1996, the order passed by the
 Arbitration Tribunal during the course of Arbitration
 cannot be challenged by the petitioner under Articles 226 and/or 227 of the Constitution of India when the
 constitution bench of the Apex Court in case of M/s. S.B.P.
 and Co. v. M/s. Patel Engineering Ltd. and Anr.(supra)
 has disapproved the stand that any order passed by the
 Arbitral Tribunal is capable of being corrected by the High
 Court under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of
 India and has categorically held that such intervention by
 the High Court is not permissible. The Apex Court in case
 of M/s. Deep Industries Limited v. Oil and Natural Gas Page 107 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT Corporation (supra) has held that it is also important to
 notice that the seven­Judge Bench has referred to the
 object of the Act being that of minimizing judicial
 intervention and that this important object should always
 be kept in the forefront when a 227 petition is being
 disposed of against proceedings that are decided under the
 Act,1996 and that the policy of the Act is speedy disposal
 of arbitration cases as the Act,1996 is 'self­contained' Code
 and deals with all the cases. 15. In view of aforesaid settled legal proposition, considering
 the policy, object and the provisions of the Act,1996, an
 order passed during arbitration proceedings by the
 Arbitration Tribunal cannot be challenged under Articles
 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India as the Act,1996 is
 a special act and a self­contained code dealing with
 arbitration. Therefore, the impugned order of the
 Arbitration Tribunal deciding the preliminary objection
 raised by the petitioner cannot be challenged under Article
 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India. 16. In view of foregoing reasons, the petition fails and is
 accordingly dismissed. It is, however, made clear that the
 petition is dismissed without entering into merits of the
 matter, only on the ground that the order passed during
 course of arbitration cannot be challenged under Articles
 226 and/or 227 of the constitution of India and it would be
 open for both the sides to raise all the contentions on
 merits before the appropriate forum in appropriate
 proceeding at appropriate time in accordance with law.
 Interim relief, if any stands vacated. Rule is discharged Page 108 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021 C/SCA/4524/2019 CAV JUDGMENT with no order as to costs. (BHARGAV D. KARIA, J)

 FURTHER ORDER

 After the judgement is pronounced, Mr. Yatin Soni, the
 learned advocate for the petitioner makes a request to stay
 the operation, implementation and execution of the
 judgement. Having regard to what has been stated in the
 judgement and more particularly, having taken the view that
 the order passed by the Arbitration Tribunal cannot be
 challenged by the petitioner under Articles 226 and/or 227 of
 the Constitution of India, request of the learned advocate is
 rejected. (BHARGAV D. KARIA, J)
RAGHUNATH R NAIR Page 109 of 109 Downloaded on : Tue Feb 16 05:35:52 IST 2021