This is a batch of 13 writ petitions

 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,

 questioning the validity of the selection process of

 the Bihar Administrative Service First Limited

 Competitive Examination 2003 (hereinafter referred to

 as `the Selection Process`), conducted by the Bihar

 Public Service Commission (hereinafter referred to as

 `BPSC'). All the writ petitions (except Cr.WJC No.583

 of 2007 and CWJC No.16093 of 2007) have been preferred

 by unsuccessful candidates, some of whom want

 cancellation of the selection process from the stage

 of the advertisement, some other want the selection

 process from the post-advertisement stage and fresh

 examination to be held, and still others want the

 selection process to be upheld and preparation of

 fresh merit list in accordance with law after

 excluding the charge-sheeted candidates. Cr.WJC No.

 583 of 2007 has been preferred by the successful

 candidates and pray for the direction that the

 investigation may be concluded expeditiously. CWJC

 No.16093 of 2007 has been preferred by some of the

 successful candidates and pray that they may be

 appointed after eliminating the charge-sheeted

 candidates. The representative facts shall be taken

 from CWJC No.7725 of 2005 (Sunil Kumar Sinha vrs.

 State of Bihar & Others), except where facts by

 specific reference is derived from any other writ

 petition. 2. In exercise of the powers conferred by Article

309 of the Constitution of India, the Bihar Government

framed the Bihar Administrative Service (Appointment

by Limited Competitive Examination) Rules 1991

(hereinafter referred to as the Rules) (Annexure A, at

page 79),published in the Bihar Gazette, dated Patna

19 January 1994, Part II. In substance it provides

that upto maximum of 25% of Class II posts filled up

by the direct competitive examination held by BPSC,

shall be selected from amongst the existing class III

employees of the State Government on the basis of a

limited competitive examination to be conducted by

BPSC. In view of rule 12, eligible persons shall be

entitled to appear at the examination and will be

considered against the vacancies from 1982 to 1991.

The period 1982 to 1991 has been substituted by the

period 1982 to 1998 by Government Notification

dt.27.6.2000 (Annexure D), issued in the name of the

Governor of Bihar, published in the Bihar Gazette

Extra-ordinary Issue, Patna, dated 8.9.2000. In other

words, the Rules provide for promotion opportunities

to the serving class III employees of the State

Government to the gazetted ranks of the Bihar

Government with detailed terms and conditions of

vacancies, eligibility, mode and manner of selection

process to be conducted by BPSC, etc. 3. The State Government sent its requisition to

BPSC to conduct the limited examination as per the

Rules. BPSC accordingly issued the advertisement

(Annexure 1), which was published in the local dailies

on 21.5.2003. Altogether 4364 applications were

received, 1754 applications were rejected, and the 6 remaining 2610 candidates appeared at the limited

examination held on 19.10.2003. The results were

published in the local dailies on 20.5.2005(Annexure 1

to CWJC No.7505 of 2005), publishing the results of

184 successful candidates. It was followed by a

corrigendum published in the local dailies on

24.5.2005 (Annexure 4 of CWJC No.8573 of 2005). The

State Government had received the letter of

recommendation dt.24.5.2005 of BPSC on 29.5.2005.It

was a list of recommendation of 184 Class III

employees prepared in order of merit, for appointment

to Class II service. 4. This was followed by the present writ petition

lodged in this Court on 5.7.2005, followed by other

writ petitions. By order dated 11.7.2005, passed in

the analogous CWJC No.7041 of 2005, the appointments

were to be made subject to the result of the case.

This was followed by the order dated 24.10.2005,

passed in CWJC No. 7725 of 2005. "............Let it be

clarified that the State Government should desist from

taking any step which will render the present batch of

writ petitions either infructuous or troublesome for

the successful party....." The State Government has not

so far made any appointment/promotion from the

aforesaid merit list. 5. By the same order of 24.10.2005, learned

counsel for the BPSC was directed to make available

for the inspection and perusal of the learned counsel

for the parties in all the writ petitions the original

records relating to recommendations of the Commission

in the present matter, which took place. This was

followed by the order dated 21.11.2005, whereby BPSC 7 was directed to make available the answer books of all

the petitioners as well as the successful candidates

for inspection of the learned counsel for the parties

appearing in this batch of writ petitions in the High

Court on 5.12.2005 and 6.12.2005. The order was not

carried out and BPSC instead filed an interlocutory

application for modification of the said order dated

21.11.2005, praying therein that the Commission has no

objection to production of the answer books for

perusal of the Court only and the order may

accordingly be modified. During the course of

submissions with respect to the interlocutory

application of BPSC, learned Additional Advocate

General II appeared with the Deputy Superintendent of

Police (Vigilance), and produced a copy of Govt. Order

dated 7.12.2005, issued under the signature of the

Addl.Director General of Police, Cabinet (Vigilance),

constituting a team of the functionaries under him for

investigation of the allegations of gross

irregularities and corruption with respect to the

Selection Process which is the subject matter of the

present proceedings. Learned AAG II further informed

the Court that the team visited the premises of the

Commission that day (7.12.2005) at 12.30 p.m., and was

camping there when the order dt. 7.12.2005 was being

dictated at 3.08 p.m. He further submitted that the

functionaries of BPSC were not allowing the team to

investigate the allegations, and were not being

allowed to seize the documents because of pendency of

the present proceedings and the said order dated

21.11.2005. The submission of the learned counsel for

BPSC in his own words was incorporated as follows in 8 the order dated 7.12.2005, and is reproduced

hereinbelow:- (Emphasis added) 6. The submission was rejected. The Court

proceeded to direct stay of operation of the aforesaid

order of this Court of 21.11.2005, whereby BPSC had

been directed to produce the answer books for

inspection of the learned counsel for the parties. The

Commission and its functionaries were directed to

extend full co-operation to the Vigilance Department

for the purpose of investigation, and pendency of the

batch of writ petitions shall not come in its way. The

team shall be entitled to seize any document or answer

book that it deemed fit in exercise of its powers of

investigation. This Court placed reliance on the

judgment of the Supreme Court in the cases of King

Emperor vs. Khwaja Nazir Ahmad (AIR 1945 Privy Council 18), as well as State of Bihar vs.J.A.C.Saldhana (1980

Vol.I SCC 554). This batch of writ petitions were

placed periodically before this Court with a view to

monitor the investigation. The Addl. Director General

of Police (Vigilance) submitted the progress report of

investigation in sealed cover on every occasion. 7. The Cabinet (Vigilance) Department of the

Government of Bihar proceeded with the investigation,

seized all the answer books and other documents for

the purpose of investigation leading to arrest of the

following persons:- Husbandry Department, Govt. of Bihar, who
 acted as go-between. Altogether 29 persons were arrested during the

course of investigation. Altogether 109 persons have

been charge-sheeted, out of whom 97 are successful

candidates, described elsewhere in the judgment as

beneficiaries, and have found their way into the merit

list comprising of 184 persons. 8. During the pendency of the present proceedings

and ongoing investigation, some of the successful

candidates preferred three Criminal Writ Petitions in

this Court which were ultimately disposed of with

certain directions. By the order dated 19.6.2006,

passed in Cr.WJC No. 380 of 2006 (Mod. Farooquzzaman &

Others vs. State of Bihar ), a learned single Judge

stayed further arrests during the course of

investigation. It is of immense importance to point

out that the learned single Judge also observed that

".... I do not find any reason to hold that

investigation is being done with any malice...". By the

order dated 13.10.2006, passed in Cr.WJC No. 592 of

2006 ( Md. Farooquzzama & Others vs. The State of

Bihar ), and the analogous Cr.WJC No.608 of 2006

(Sheoyogi Singh vs. The State of Bihar), the learned

single Judge finalised the questionnaire for the use 10 of the investigating agency to elicit informations

from suspected persons during the course of

investigation. The investigation made little progress

after the orders were passed in the three criminal

writ petitions and the investigation agency felt

helpless. It ultimately submitted charge-sheets

against 109 persons, out of whom 97 are successful

candidates who have found their way into the merit

list comprising of 184 persons, and is now pending

trial before the learned Special Court (Vigilance),

Patna. The matter now comes up for final disposal of

the writ petitions. In view of the common issues

involved in the writ petitions, the same are being

disposed of by a common judgment. CWJC No. 7725 of 2005 9. This writ petition has been preferred by four

petitioners who had appeared in the examination but

were not included in the merit list. The merit list

(Annexure 1, at page 28 of CWJC No.7505 of 2005),

prepared by BPSC and forwarded to the State

Government, recommended appointment by promotion of

184 persons. By order dated 2.7.2008, a few successful

candidates have been impleaded as respondent nos. 8 to

16 herein. Respondent nos. 1 and 2 are the State of

Bihar and its functionaries, respondent nos. 3 to 5

and 7 are BPSC and its functionaries, and respondent

no. 6 is the Vigilance Investigation Bureau, Govt. of

Bihar, through Additional Director General of Police

(Vigilance). Respondent nos. 8 to 16 are successful

candidates and three of them, namely,respondent no.10

(Prem Shankar Yadav), respondent no.12 (Mohd.

Sagiuddin Ahmad), and respondent no. 13 (Kapildeo 11 Prasad Yadav) are charge-sheeted employees. Though

CWJC No.7725 of 2005 was initially preferred with the

prayer to cancel the results and direct the respondent

authorities to hold fresh examination in accordance

with law, learned counsel for the petitioners during

the course of oral submissions, has modified the

relief prayed for and submitted that the existing

selection process may not be scrapped altogether and

the results may be revised after excluding the charge-

sheeted employees because tainted answer books and the

candidates have been identified. He submits that

altogether 184 vacancies have to be filled up and 97

successful candidates have been charge-sheeted. It is

submitted that the remaining candidates have been

found to be unblemished and, therefore, the present

results may be set aside with the direction to prepare

a fresh list on the basis of the examination already

conducted. He has, inter alia, submitted that the

vacancies have remained unfilled since 1992, and some

or many of the candidates would be retiring soon. He

has relied on a number of reported judgments. 10. Learned counsel for respondent nos. 1 and

2 has submitted that the petitioners cannot be

permitted to alter the reliefs prayed for in the writ

petition without amendment of pleadings. He has

further submitted that the examination as well as the

results may be set aside. However, fresh selection

process may be directed to be published as per the

present advertisement (Annexure 1). He has relied on

diverse circumstances, set out in detail in the

supplementary counter affidavit on behalf of

respondent no. 6, that the selection process from the 12 very beginning is not in accordance with law and is

vitiated. 11. Learned counsel for BPSC has submitted that

they are not in a position to comment on the fairness

or otherwise of the selection process and shall abide

the result of the writ petitions. 12. Respondent no.6 has placed on record its

counter affidavit indicating the latest position as

well as the details which have emerged during the

course of investigation culminating in the charge-

sheets. It is submitted that the entire examination

was vitiated ever since the stage of screening of the

applications and, therefore, fresh examination is

imperative. 13. Learned counsel for respondent nos. 8 to 16

has submitted that the tainted candidates have been

identified and charge-sheeted. The rest are

unblemished and, therefore, the present merit list may

be set aside and a revised list may be prepared. He

has submitted that respondent nos.10, 12 and 13 have

been charge-sheeted and, therefore, their cases along

with other charge-sheeted employees may be excluded

from fresh consideration. He has relied on the order

dated 11.7.2005, passed in CWJC No. 7041 of 2005,

whereby it was directed that "...Meanwhile

appointments made will be subject to the result of the

case." CWJC No. 7505 of 2005 14. This writ petition has been preferred by 17

unsuccessful candidates. Respondent nos.1, 2, and 3

are State of Bihar and its functionaries, respondent

nos.4, 5, and 7 are BPSC and its functionaries, and 13 respondent no.6 is the Vigilance Investigation Bureau.

Learned counsel for the petitioners has submitted that

the present merit list may be quashed and a revised

list may be prepared as per rule 5 after excluding the

charge-sheeted candidates. He further submits that the

results had to be published batch-wise, i.e. 25% of

the total number of seats of a particular batch of

direct recruits. In his submission, BPSC has committed

the gross error of publishing a combined merit list

which has no nexus with a particular batch. He relies

on the following reported judgments: 15. Learned counsel for the official respondents

have taken just the same stand as in CWJC No.7725 of

2005. CWJC No. 7263 of 2005 16. The sole petitioner is an unsuccessful

candidate and has preferred this writ petition with

the prayer to set aside the results of the limited

examination and re-publish the results after excluding

the charge-sheeted candidates. BPSC should not have

published a combined merit list and should have

instead published it having nexus with a particular

batch of direct recruitment by BPSC. He also submits

that the candidates who have been allocated to the

State of Jharkhand should be excluded from

consideration. He further submits in the alternative

that a fresh selection process may commence and the

non-charge sheeted employees may be allowed to appear

without the age bar operating against them. CWJC No. 8552 of 2005 17. The sole petitioner is an unsuccessful

candidate and seeks cancellation of the entire

selection process from the stage of advertisement, and

prays for fresh advertisement in accordance with law

after taking into account the provisions of

reservation for handicapped persons in terms of the

Persons with Disabilities (Equal opportunities,

Protection of rights, and Full participation) Act 1995

(hereinafter referred to as the Disabilities Act). The

petitioner claims to be a handicapped person,

participated in the selection process, was

unsuccessful but is not a charge-sheeted employee. He

next submits that the first advertisement published on

21.5.2003, leading to the present selection process,

as well as the second advertisement published in the

local dailies on 25.5.2005 which has not made any 15 headway, may be set aside for the same reasons, and

prays for republication of fresh advertisement in

accordance with law. 18. The State of Bihar has not filed counter

affidavit in this case and has not, inter alia,

answered the question whether or not the second

advertisement be cancelled. 19. BPSC has filed a counter affidavit wherein it

is stated that the advertisements are published in

accordance with the requisition made by the State

Government. In view of the position that the State

Government did not make any stipulation in its two

requisitions for reservation for handicapped persons,

such a provision was not incorporated in the two

advertisements. Learned counsel for the State

submitted that having participated in the selection

process, he cannot challenge it on the ground of

reservation. He relies on the following reported

judgments:- 20. The remaining respondents have taken the same

stand as in the first writ petition. CWJC No.7041 of 2005 21. Six persons have preferred this writ petition

who had participated in the selection process and

could not find their way to the merit list. According

to them, they have not been charge-sheeted. Learned

counsel for the petitioners submits that the entire

selection process from the stage of written 16 examination be set aside. He has pointed out a number

of defects thereto including the requirement to write

with pencil which was purposive so that the writings

should be altered. He has submitted that the criminal

intent had commenced soon after the advertisement was

published and the very format for the written papers

prescribed by the Rules was changed. 22. The respondents have taken the same stand as

in the first writ petition. CWJC No. 8032 of 2005 23. Four persons have preferred this writ petition

who had participated in the selection process, could

not find their way to the merit list and prayed that

the same may be cancelled and a fresh revised list may

be prepared after allotting 21 posts to the reserved

category of Scheduled Tribe as stipulated in the

advertisement. The four petitioners are members of

Scheduled Tribe and complain that the same was reduced

from 21 to 5 posts. 24. Learned counsel for the State of Bihar submits

that the original advertisement did stipulate that 21

posts should be reserved for members of the Scheduled

Tribes, whereas the merit list has allotted only 5

seats to the members of Scheduled Tribe as per the

communication of the State Government without issuing

the requisite corrigendum to the advertisement. In his

submission, if the contention of the petitioners is

upheld, then the advertisement will have to be set

aside to give way to a fresh advertisement in

accordance with law. CWJC No. 15412 of 2005 25. The sole petitioner is an unsuccessful

candidate and submits that there is no need to set

aside the limited examination and prays that the

results may be quashed and a revised select list as

per the law be published after excluding the charge-

sheeted candidates. The respondents have taken the

same stand as in the first writ petition. CWJC No. 8573 of 2005 26. The sole petitioner is an unsuccessful

candidate and adopted the arguments advanced by

learned counsel for the petitioner in CWJC No. 7041 of

2005. Learned counsel for the respondents have opposed

the writ petition on the same lines as in the first

writ petition. CWJC No. 7386 of 2005 27. The five petitioners are unsuccessful

candidates and submit that the final result and the

recommendation of BPSC may be quashed and a revised

list on the basis of the same selection process be

prepared as per law after excluding the charge-sheeted

employees. He also submits that the amending

notification dated 27.6.2000 (Annexure D, at page 86)

is fit to be upheld. He also pointed out inclusion of

invalid or ineligible candidates in the list, for

example, Gopalji Mishra at sl.no.16 of the merit list

(Annexure 4), who is an ineligible candidate and could

not have been allowed to appear at the examination. 28. Learned counsel for the respondents have

adopted the same arguments made by them in the first

writ petition. It was submitted that the entire

selection process is infected with deep and all- 18 pervasive malaise of illegalities and ulterior motives

and the best course is to set aside the whole of it

after the stage of advertisement. CWJC No. 7390 of 2005 29. Learned counsel for the petitioner did not

appear to press this writ petition. It appears on a

perusal of the same that the petitioner prays for the

results to be set aside. It is also stated in

paragraph 1(v) that ineligible persons like Krishna

Yadav (not in Government service), and Sobha Agrawal,

who has not completed ten years in regular Government

service, have been selected. 30. Learned counsel for the respondents have

adopted the same arguments as in the first writ

petition and have submitted that the entire selection

process is replete with irregularities and it is

difficult to separate the regular candidates from the

irregular candidates. CWJC No. 10243 of 2005 31. The two petitioners have joined this writ

petition with a prayer to quash the results and for

preparation of fresh select list in accordance with

law, inter alia, to be prepared batch-wise after

excluding the charge-sheeted candidates. 32. Learned counsel for the respondents have

adopted arguments advanced in the first writ petition. CWJC No. 16093 of 2007 33. This writ petition is by 12 successful

candidates all of whom belong to one or the other

reserved category, and none is a charge-sheeted

candidate. Learned counsel for the petitioners submit

that all the successful candidates may be appointed 19 after excluding the charge-sheeted candidates. He next

submits that the matter has remained pending for an

unduly long time which is manifest from the

advertisement, inasmuch as the earliest cut-off date

is 1.8.1986. On account of long lapse of time in such

matters, minor deviation from the Rules is

permissible, so long the core and the substantial part

of the selection process is duly observed, also

because many new candidates may in the meanwhile have

become eligible. He submits in the same vein that

rule-13 of the Rules vests the Government with the

requisite authority to take steps for removal of

defects which, inter alia, protects the validity of

the amending notification. In his submission,

therefore, Article 309 of the Constitution is

inapplicable in the present case. He relies on the

judgment reported in 1993 (3) PLJR 255 ( Ashok Kumar

vs. The Union of India & Ors. ). He next submits that

the Rules, particularly rule -12, inter alia, provide

that every successful candidate has a right to be

appointed. He relies on the judgment of the Supreme

Court reported in (1991) 3 SCC 47 ( Sankarsan Dash vs.

Union of India )(para 12). He next submits that clause-

2 of the amending notification says that there shall

be a combined merit list on the basis of a common

limited examination. It also provides for seniority

after appointment on promotion. He next submits that

it is not open to a candidate to challenge a selection

process after having appeared at the same. He relies

on the following reported judgments:- (i) AIR 1995 (3) 486)(Para 8)
 (Madanlal vs.State ofJammu & Kashmir) 20 (ii) AIR 1986 SC 1043 (Para 23)
 (Om Prakash vs.Akhilesh Kumar) (iii)2008(3) PLJR 271 (SC)
 (Dhananjay Malik vs.State of Uttaranchal)

The select list has already been approved by the

Governor of Bihar. Law is well settled that in case of

infirmities in a merit list, the ineligible or tainted

candidates may be excluded and the rest may be

appointed. He relies on the judgments of the Supreme

Court reported in (2003) 7 SCC 285 ( Union of India vs.

Rajesh P.U.,Puthuvalnikathu ), and 1999(2) SCC 573

( Asha Kaul vs. State of Jammu & Kashmir )(Para 7). He

next submits on the basis of interpretation of

Schedule 5 of the Rules that the prescribed syllabus

was followed by BPSC. It nowhere stipulates that the

Second Paper shall be of descriptive nature, known in

common parlance as Subjective Test. He also submits

that BPSC has followed the notification of the

State Government of 5.8.1991 (Annexure C to the

petitioners' rejoinder), prescribing the minimum

qualifying marks for candidates of various categories.

In his submission, therefore, no person having secured

less than the prescribed minimum qualifying marks has

been recommended for appointment. He next submits that

no application was received belatedly. He lastly

submits that interest of the successful candidates has

already been protected by the order dated 24.10.2005,

whereby it has been directed that "... let it be

clarified that the State Government should desist from

taking any step which will render the present batch of

writ petitions either infructuous or troublesome for

the successful parties..." Cr.WJC No.583 of 2007 34. This criminal writ petition has been preferred

by two successful candidates, is of a fundamentally

different nature, wherein prayer is made for direction

to the Government Vigilance Department to conclude the

investigation within a reasonable time. None appears

to press this writ petition. With the conclusion of

the investigation and submission of the charge-sheets,

this writ petition has become infructuous and is

accordingly dismissed as having become infructuous. 35. We have perused the materials on record and

considered the submissions of learned counsel for the

parties. The entire range of possible contentions from

cancellation of the advertisement to appointment of

successful candidates as a matter of right have been

advanced. However, the common thread of submissions on

behalf of the petitioners in most of the writ

petitions is that a revised list may be prepared on

the basis of the present selection process after

excluding the charge-sheeted candidates. We feel

handicapped in disposing of a large number of

contentions because of absence of up-to-date counter

affidavits of State Government and BPSC. The State

Government has relied on its counter affidavit sworn

on 5.1.2007, and BPSC has relied on its counter

affidavits sworn on 26.7.2005 and 30.5.2007. It was,

inter alia, stated in the order dt. 14.5.2008, that

investigation has concluded, charge-sheets have been

submitted, and ".. the stage seems to have reached to

dispose of the writ petitions on merits. Let the

parties complete their pleadings within a period of 22 six weeks. The State Government as well as the Cabinet

(Vigilance) Department /Vigilance Investigation Bureau

shall file separate supplementary counter affidavits.

Put up on 2.7.2008 ...... to fix a final date for disposal

of the matter... ". On the next date, as jointly prayed,

it was directed that it shall be posted on 4.8.2008

for final disposal. Inspite of clear direction and

more than adequate opportunity, the State Government

and BPSC did not file supplementary counter

affidavits. 36. The State Government and BPSC have failed or

refused to take note of affidavits filed by other

parties challenging violation of the diverse Rules in

issuing the advertisements, and the defects pointed

out in the post-advertisement selection process

crystallizing in the merit list. According to BPSC, in

so far as the allegations of non-observance of the

Rules and Regulations in issuance of the advertisement

is concerned, the entire responsibility rests on the

State Government. It is submitted that the

advertisement is issued entirely on the basis of the

terms and conditions forwarded by the State

Government. BPSC has not answered either in its

pleadings or during the course of oral submissions as

to whose statutory duty and responsibility is to

prepare the merit list in a consolidated manner or

batch-wise. 37. BPSC has not found fit to take note of the

developments since submission of its counter

affidavits till 17.6.2008, when the investigation

concluded and the charge-sheets have been filed. It

thought nothing of the investigation disclosing the 23 illegalities and the irregularities in the post-

advertisement selection process including the merit

list, and has not filed a supplementary counter

affidavit taking the appropriate stand on the validity

or otherwise of the selection process which is

tantamount to abdication of essential duties and

functions. It was not the individual and isolated act

of one person, but was the organized conspiracy of two

successive Chair-persons, three members, and six

officials and staff of BPSC, where only money

mattered. BPSC completely lost its purpose and

direction. A case of institutional collapse or

institutional derangement? Woe betide the massive

faith reposed in them by the founding fathers of the

Constitution. These observations are made in the

background of the situation, as stated at the Bar,

that this was the first action on the part of the

State Government to cleanse the affairs of BPSC which

is reeking with corruption. 38. I must state that effective disposal of this

batch of writ petitions has really been possible

because of the admirable investigation conducted and

concluded by the team headed by Mr. Neelmani,

Additional Director General of Police (Vigilance), and

equally his exhaustive supplementary counter affidavit

affirmed by him on 25.6.2008. 39. The advertisement (Annexure 1) was published

in the local dailies on 21.5.2003, according to which

the earliest eligibility as per the Rules has been

indicated to be as on 1.8.1986. I am informed at the

Bar that the last selection process had taken place

way back in 1982. In other words, the eligible 24 candidates ever since 1982 or 1.8.1986 and thereafter

have been deprived of their opportunity of promotion.

Total number of 184 seats have to be filled up. The

Commission prepared a merit list of 184 candidates and

accordingly made recommendations to the State

Government. It appears from the merit list published

in the local dailies on 20.5.2005 (Annexure 1 to CWJC

No.7505 of 2005), that 89 persons of the general

category, 29 candidates of scheduled castes, 5 persons

of the category of schedule tribes, 33 candidates of

most backward classes, 22 candidates of backward

classes, and 6 backward category of women have been

recommended. This position is testified by the letter

of recommendation of BPSC of 24.5.2005, a copy of

which has been supplied by learned counsel for BPSC at

the behest of the Court in a sealed cover during the

course of submissions. It is a single, consolidated

merit list. The State Government has not issued

appointment letters to anyone of these persons. The

limited examination comprising of two papers had taken

place on 19.10.2003, and the results were published on

20.5.2005, followed by a corrigendum of 24.5.2005

(Annexure 4 to CWJC No.8573 of 2005). 40. By letter dated 7.12.2005, issued by the

Additional Director General of Police, Cabinet

Vigilance, an investigation team was constituted to

investigate the illegalities and irregularities

committed by BPSC and others in the selection process.

This Court monitored the investigation and the matter

was for that purpose placed before this Court

periodically with ADGP (Vigilance) in attendance with

his report in a sealed cover. The number of persons 25 arrested during the course of investigation has

already been indicated hereinabove. The investigation

of the case concluded in May/June 2008, and the

following charge-sheets have been filed against 104

accused persons:- © Suppl. CS No.12/2006 dated 13.04.2006
 against three (Member, BPSC, a Middleman & a
 beneficiary). (d) Suppl. CS No.98/2006 dated 30.12.2006
 against one (FIR accused beneficiary). (e) Suppl. CS No.114/2007 dated 10.07.2007
 against 12 beneficiary. (f) Suppl. CS No.276/2007 dated 24.12.2007
 against 12 beneficiary candidates. (g) Suppl. CS No.02/2008 dated 11.01.2008
 against 39 beneficiary candidates. (h) Suppl. CS No.30/2008 dated 12.05.2008
 against 24 beneficiary candidates. (i) Suppl. CS No.38/2008 dated 17.06.2008
 against 5 beneficiary candidates. From the merit list of 184 persons, 97 persons have

been charge-sheeted, which shows the enormity of the

situation. It is evident that two Chairpersons who

were in office one after the other during the course

of selection process commencing with the

advertisement, three members, and six officers and

staff of BPSC, 97 beneficiaries, and a middle-man

have also been charge-sheeted. It may be clarified

that we have used the expression beneficiary to mean a

candidate who had appeared at the limited examination

and had given money to the said functionaries to be

included in the merit list which was brought about by

gross interference with format of examinations and 26 interpolations in the answer books and discussed in

detail hereinbelow. 41. The second aspect of the matter is that the

investigating agency has found during the course of

investigation that the questions were required to be

answered by HB pencil capable of being removed by

erasers. It is this facility conceived by the

authorities of BPSC which facilitated the crime. It

has been found by scientific methods that the original

answers which had to be given by tick mark (....), were

erased in a large number of answer books and replaced

by new answers. At the time of formation of opinion

for the purpose of submission of charge-sheet(s), the

investigating agency formulated a rough and ready

yardstick to differentiate between the beneficiaries

and the rest. In other words, those with erasings of

50 answers or above have been charge-sheeted, and

those of the answer books with less than 50 erasings

have been given the benefit of doubt. The ADGP

(Vigilance) had during the course of his appearances

submitted that more persons would have been arrested

and charge-sheeted but the beneficiaries and the

middlemen did not cooperate, taking undue advantage of

the orders passed in Cr.WJC Nos. 380 of 2006, Cr.WJC

No.592 of 2006, and Cr.WJC No.608 of 2006, whereafter

the investigation slowed down and further progress

became very difficult. The investigating agency was

able to trace the source of the money paid by the

beneficiaries, and the destination of investments made

by the functionaries of BPSC, and the middle-man. It

was, therefore, left with the discretion of

determining the yard-stick of 50 erasings. It has been 27 stated in his counter affidavit that "... many of the

remaining beneficiary candidates also suffer from

various infirmities which are serious in nature but

the evidence gathered during investigation of the case

are not sufficient enough to charge them for the

criminal offence. The investigation of the criminal

case, therefore, has been concluded." In other

words, more of the successful candidates, and more of

the middlemen, could have been arrested and charge-

sheeted. All this cumulatively discloses the enormity

of the gross illegalities committed in tampering the

answer books. 42. The ADGP (Vigilance) in his supplementary

counter affidavit has pointed out as many as 19

defects in the selection process. I can do no better

than to reproduce Paragraph 6 of the supplementary

counter affidavit summarizing the serious

irregularities in the selection process:- III posts etc. etc. before appointment.

VII. Advertisement no.04/2003 for the
examination was published with full approval
of the Commission and certain corrigendums in
it were also issued with the full approval of
the Commission. Last date for receipt of
application form was published as 21.06.2003.
Some of the accused persons, without approval
of the full Commission, surreptitiously and
without publishing it,extended the date for
the receipt of application forms from various
department upto 25.06.2003 and upto 26.06.2003
in respect of application forms received
through post/courier and the Ex-Chairman
Smt.Rajiya Tabassum also issued an order
regarding entry of application forms in the
register in such a way that it facilitated
entry of the application forms received even
upto 30.6.2003. VIII. It has been established during
investigation that only 4346 application forms
were received till the published cut off date
i.e. 21.06.2003. 1754 applications out of this
were rejected. 310 application forms received
as advance copies were accepted against the
provisions and 153 applications were received
after the extended date i.e. 26.06.2003. The
Commission did not stick to the advertised cut
off date (21.06.2003). All the applications
which included accepted, rejected, received
with delay, advance copies and even those
wanting in many other respects received upto
30.06.2003 were allowed to appear in the
examination. If these relaxations were
published, others would also have participated
in the examination but they were denied the
opportunity. recommended candidates, application forms in
respect of 102 such candidates suffer from one
or the other infirmity. The details are
annexed as Annexure-9 to the FIR. If these
applications were properly scrutinized in
accordance with the strict conditions laid
down in the advertisement, they should have
been rejected at the very stage of acceptance. 30 X. The BPSC while sending recommendation
requested the department of Personnel for
getting satisfied by verification of
educational qualification, date of birth, the
cut off date, reservation, period of working
on class III posts etc. etc. before
appointment. XI. It has been established during
investigation that four candidate having marks
higher than cut off mark in their category
were not recommended whereas certain
candidates with less marks and defective
application form were recommended indicating
undue favour. XII. The application of candidate with roll
no.112455 was rejected for not depositing fee
but during investigation fee deposit of
Rs.150/- by postal order was found entered in
the BPSC register. XIII. Large scale tampering were detected in
the answer sheets of paper-II during
preliminary enquiry and investigation. The use
of rubbers for correcting answers in respect
of sample test conducted by FSL in respect of
unsuccessful candidates ranged from 0 to 23
only. FSL examination of the answer sheets of
successful candidates has established that out
of 134 correct questions, the tampering/use of
eraser ranged between 50 to 158 in respect of
95 successful candidates. This can not be done
because 150 questions were to be answered in
180 minutes. Therefore, on an average, only
1.2 minute is available for answering a
question by properly filling the blank squares
through HB pencil. XIV. The answer sheets were kept in the strong
room. It has been established during
investigation that, under a conspiracy, the
lock of the strong room was changed on
15.05.2004 and no efforts were made for
registration of a criminal case in this
regard. Instead, the key of the strong room
was handed over to one Assistant Secretary (an
accused in the case). The same Assistant
Secretary took out the answer sheets in the
name of computer scanning from the strong room
and kept them without proper security for
about two months in the computer room.

XV. Prior to the above, two locks used to be
put up in the strong room and their key used
to be with two different employees but by
bringing allegations pertaining to change of
lock, the keys were taken from the two
employees and handed over to the accused
Assistant Secretary. This was done under a 31 well thought out conspiracy and in gross
violation of security norms. XVI. Evaluation of answer sheets of both the
papers were done in the computer room. This
was to be done by OMR (optical marking
report). The OMR sheets were scanned and the
data kept in database file. After inserting
database file in the computer, the key answer
was to be fed and results were to be obtained.
The entire process could have taken hardly 24
hours. The computer scans or accepts only those
answer sheets which are filled in accordance
with the command given to the computer but it
was detected that even those answer sheets
were evaluated which violated the
instructions. The computer should not have
evaluated such answer sheets in which all the
four questions were either answered or left
blank but this was done. The candidates were
to write which of the four A,B,C or D sets he
was answering. Answer sheets which did not
mention any of them were also evaluated by the
computer whereas it should have been rejected.
This could not have been possible but for the
manipulations adopted during the evaluation. XVII. It was established during
investigation that computer data pertaining to
question paper no.II were deliberately and
under a well thought out conspiracy removed.
The data for paper -I was available. It is the
paper no.II in which large scale tampering had
been done to favour the candidates. Sensing
the matter being taken up by the Hon'ble High
Court, the persons manning the computer
section of the BPSC got the hard disc of the
computer removed, the Server was declared
inoperative and the computer was also changed.
This was done without taking any formal orders
from the Chairman, BPSC who is supposed to be
personally responsible for it. This finds
mention in the "Business to be transected by
the Chairman" contained in Rules of procedure
1996 schedule section -I (15)" which is
reproduced below:- The above rule was, therefore, blatantly
violated. XVIII. The hard disc mentioned above was
recovered from CMC, S K Puri, Patna. It was
revealed during investigation that the hard
disc was sent to Kolkata and the company
replaced it also. XIX. The computer system of BPSC was examined
by the experts of National Informatics Centre 32 (Bihar State Unit), Government of India,
 Ministry of Communication and Information
 Technology. They have found evidence of manual
 tampering of the computer system. Manual
 evaluation of OMR sheets in many a cases were
 detected during investigation. 7. That in the facts and circumstances
 detailed hereinabove it is evident that gross
 irregularities, serious violation of the
 condition of the advertisement/requisition
 sent by the government, arbitrariness,
 discrimination, favouritism, planting of
 forged document, extensive tampering of answer
 sheets and data base have been committed while
 making selection of candidates pursuant to
 advertisement no.4/03. 8. That in the circumstances referred
 hereinabove the Vigilance Investigation Bureau
 is also in favour of cancellation of the
 recommendations of 184 candidates made by the
 BPSC and for direction to the BPSC for
 conducting fresh selection test from amongst
 the candidates who have responded to
 advertisement no.4/03." 43. It is evident that the selection process is

tainted and tarnished ever since the advertisement was

issued. The last date of submission of applications

was surreptitiously extended, and a large number of

applications were stealthily received after the

prescribed date. One candidate had deposited the fee

along with the application, but his application was

rejected on the non-est ground that she had not

deposited the fee. The format was illegally altered

and the second paper was made objective/multiple

choice without permission of the State Government so

that change of answers becomes possible. Descriptive

answers cannot be changed. Large scale tamperings were

detected in the Second Paper. Answers of both papers

were required to be recorded/given by tick-mark of the

pencil in the box ( ) so that erasings could be done

to be replaced by new pencil-marks with ulterior

motives. Some of the questions in both the papers were 33 defective, and the total marks for evaluation were

reduced. Some of the answer books should not have been

accepted by the computer for evaluation but did accept

because it was tampered with. The data base was

tampered with and the hand disc was replaced. Manual

tampering of the computer system was also detected.

Under a conspiracy, locks of the store room were

changed and no F.I.R. was lodged. The keys of the

store room of BPSC were in the possession and custody

of persons in violation of the rules. Persons having

scored less than the minimum qualifying marks have

been recommended for appointment. Four persons fit to

be recommended were ignored and not included in the

merit list, whereas persons with defects in the

applications were included in the merit list. Out of a

total of 184 beneficiaries, applications of 102

persons surely suffered from one or the other

infirmity and all such applications were fit to be

rejected at the threshold. It is thus evident that

irregularities had commenced soon after the

advertisement was issued till the publication of merit

list, steeped in corruption, and tainted from

beginning to end. 44. In this back-ground, it arises for

consideration whether or not the exams. have to be

preserved and a fresh merit list directed to be

prepared, or the entire examination from the post-

advertisement stage, or the entire selection process

including the advertisement should be set aside. I

shall first take up the first two issues, and, if the

need arises, the third issue thereafter. 34 45. The judgment of the Supreme Court reported in

(1994) 4 SCC 165 ( Krishna Yadav vs. State of Haryana )

may first of all be noticed. It related to selection

of Taxation Inspectors by Subordinate Selection Board.

In view of the allegations of fraud, nepotism

favouritism and arbitrariness, the Supreme Court

handed it over to CBI for investigation. CBI report

revealed acts of favouritism, selection without

interview as also on the basis of fake or ghost

interviews, tampering with final records, fabrication

of documents, forgery, keeping the selection list a

secret, issuing appointment letters after calling

selected candidates and obtaining joining reports from

them on the spot without any medical test and

verification of antecedents and destroying the

original records and answer books. The entire

selection process, being vitiated by fraud and

arbitrariness, was set aside even though the

appointees were in service for four years. It was

observed that individual cases of innocence were

irrelevant in dealing the entire selection process.

Paragraphs 16 to 22 of the judgment are reproduced

hereinbelow:- (ii) All candidates who had applied in
response to Advertisement No.3 dated 7.7.1988
and who were found eligible will be entitled
to take such an examination. (iii) The total marks for written
examination shall be 200. (iv) The total for viva voce shall be 25
that is not more than 12 ½ per cent as has
been laid down in Mohinder Sain Garg vs.State
of Punjab with reference to the very post. (v) The advertisement announcing the
fresh examination shall be issued immediately,
fixing the last date as 30.6.1994. (vi) Intimation as to the acceptance of
applications and the schedule of the
examination shall be given or or before
16.8.1994. (vii) The examination shall commence in
as many centres as required from 1.9.1994. (viii) The evaluation shall be completed
before 31.10.1994. (ix) The marks obtained shall be
published in three prominent dailies having
large circulation in the State of Haryana in
additional to the display on the Notice Board. (x) The number of candidates called for
viva voce shall not exceed three times the
number of posts to be filled. (xi) The viva voce shall commence from
7.11.1994 and be completed by 25.11.1994. The
final analysis of the tabulated results shall
be submitted to this Court on or before
10.12.1994. We shall make it clear that not one of the
persons connected with the present examination
shall be allowed to have anything to do with
the previous examination. We expect strict
compliance with this order. Under no
circumstances there will be an extension of
time in this regard. The State shall endeavour
its best to see that the examinations are
conducted fairly without giving any room for
any complaint. If necessary, it could have an
independent body or agency in order that it
may infuse confidence and make people believe
that the misdeeds complained of in this case
constitute an isolated chapter and a thing of
past. (xii) Since we have accepted the CBI
report we direct that necessary prosecutions
be launched early against all concerned
however high or low they may be in the
hierarchy of officialdom. The State Government
will do well to grant the necessary sanctions
if so required without undue delay. The Chief
Secretary of the State of Haryana shall pay
his best attention to this." 46. The present case is fully covered by the

judgment in Krishan Yadav (supra). In fact, the view

taken there applies with greater force in the present

case, the factual situation being more lurid here.

Both are cases of systematic fraud rendering both the

selection processes to be farcical. There is no

knowing whether or not any person was arrested and

charge-sheeted in Krishan Yadav. On the other hand,

the enormity of the situation in the present case is

evident from the relevant particulars indicated above

with the added possibility of more of the

beneficiaries being tainted and having obtained their

places in the merit list on payment and malafide

reasons. 47. The judgment of the Supreme Court reported in

(2002) 3 SCC 146 (Union of India vs.O. Chakradhar),

equally covers the present case. The Supreme Court

observed that the mischief in conducting the selection

was so wide-spread and all-pervasive, affecting the

results, that it was difficult to identify the persons

unlawfully benefited or wrongfully deprived of

selection, the whole selection could be cancelled

without issuing individual show-cause notice to each

person selected. It has been observed as follows:- The Chairman engages a printer for printing
of the question paper and computer firms are
given the job of scrutinizing the
applications. The examination is conducted at
different centres and answer-sheets are sealed
and put in boxes in custody of the Chairman in
his room. The answer-sheets are given to the
computer firm for evaluation. The Board
carries on a manual random check of the
answer-sheets, and depending upon the result,
further call letters are prepared by the
computer firm. Since it was recruitment for
the post of Junior Clerk-cum-Typist, a
candidate was required to have a typing speed
of 30 words per minute in English or 25 words
per minute in Hindi. As per relevant circular,
the typing test is to be conducted after the
written test and those who qualify in the
typing test also, they alone are to be called
for final interview. In the present case,
however, according to the report the
candidates during the course of their personal
interview were required to give typing test
before the members of the Interview Board
within the time-limit set for the purpose. No
separate marks were awarded for typing nor
have the typing sheets been preserved by the
Board. No candidate was qualified or
disqualified on the basis of the typing test.
About 100 answer-sheets did not bear the
signatures of Supervisor/Assistant Supervisor
in the column provided for the purpose. It,
however, bore the signatures of the
invigilator but none from the said candidates
is reported to be selected. According to the
report, on scrutiny of the answer-sheets of
100 selected candidates, a clear difference of
handwriting was noticed in many answer-sheets. Out of these answer-sheets 14 were
particularly were taken out for the purpose of
investigation. According to the report,
answer-sheet packets were stealthily opened
and answers were filled up in the blank spaces
left by the examinees. This happened during
the period the bags of the answer-sheets were
in the custody of the Chairman. So far as the
interview is concerned, it is reported that
the two Boards constituted for the interview
did not have technical personnel as its member 39 as per requirement. Each member was required
to award marks to the candidate in the
individual assessment sheets provided to them,
and average was to be worked out but no
average was worked out. The columns for
interview marks was later on filled up as per
wishes of the Chairman and Member-Secretary of
the Board and signatures of the non-official
members were obtained on the summary sheet
later on. 11. It is mentioned in the report that huge
amount of money was taken for selecting the
candidates but none is coming forward to
indicate as to who and how much one paid for
it for fear of being in trouble. It is further
that non-official Chairman of the Board made
payment of printing of the examination paper
etc. not to any firm but to one Gaja Raja
Yadav. It may also be mentioned that according
to the report a large number of applications
were missing and postal orders of the missing
applications were encashed and misappropriated
and even before the closing date of receiving
the applications, it started sending
applications to the computer firm for their
scrutiny. CBI has named five persons as
accused in the report, namely, the Chairman of
the Railway Recruitment Board, Bangalore, who
is a non-official, the Member-Secretary of the
Board, an officer of the Railways, one Shri
Hanumanth Bhaiya, a Senior Clerk in the
Railway Recruitment Board, and Gaja Raja
Yadav, the private person to whom payment had
been made for printing of the question paper
etc. 12. As per the report of CBI the whole
selection smacks of mala fides and
arbitrariness. All norms are said to have been
violated with impunity at each stage viz.
right from the stage of entertaining
applications, with answer-sheets while in the
custody of the Chairman, in holding typing
test, in interview and in the end while
preparing the final result. In such
circumstances it may not be possible to pick
out or choose a few persons in respect of whom
alone the selection could be cancelled and
their services in pursuance thereof could be
terminated. The illegality and irregularity
are so intermixed with the whole process of
the selection that it becomes impossible to
sort out the right from the wrong or vice
versa. The result of such a selection cannot
be relied or acted upon. It is not a case
where a question of misconduct on the part of
a candidate is to be gone into but a case
where those who conducted the selection have
rendered it wholly unacceptable. Guilt of
those who have been selected is not the
question under consideration but the question
is, could such selection be acted upon in the 40 matter of public employment? We are therefore
 of the view that it is not one of those cases
 where it may have been possible to issue any
 individual notice or misconduct to each
 selectee and seek his explanation and seek his
 explanation in regard to the large-scale,
 widespread and all-pervasive illegalities and
 irregularities committed by those who
 conducted the selection which may of course
 possibly for the benefit of those who have
 been selected but there may be a few who may
 have deserved selection otherwise, but it is
 difficult to separate the cases of some of the
 candidates from the rest even if there may be
 some. The decision in the case of Krishan
 Yadav applies to the facts of the present
 case. The Railway Board's decision to cancel
 the selection cannot be faulted with. The
 appeal therefore deserves to be allowed. 48. The said judgment applies to the present case

with greater force. Both the cases are of all-

pervasive mischief and deep malaise, such that it is

difficult "to separate the grain from the chaff." In

the present case, the source of money arranged by the

beneficiaries, the amount of money paid to the

functionaries and the go-between, and the investments

made by the recipients, have been traced. It will bear

repetition to emphasise the number of persons

arrested, charge-sheeted, and number of beneficiaries

in the doubtful category. It is not possible to

disentangle and separate the unblemished candidates. 49. The judgment of the Supreme Court reported in

1993 (1) Service Law Reporter, 451 ( Union Territory of

Chandigarh vs. Dilbagh Singh ), is also relevant in the

present case. 50. In this view of the matter, the only course

available to this Court is to set aside the entire

limited examination. It would be extremely unsafe to

rely on the same examination and be content with the

revision of the merit list, inter alia, for the reason

that many of the seemingly unblemished candidates have 41 escaped the dragnet. The main feature of misconduct in

the present selection process are in common with those

of Krishan Yadav, and Union of India v. O.Chakradhar .

In fact, there are some added features in the present

case which make it graver. In any view of the matter,

all the three, with some variation of misdeeds, are

equally sullied and base. 51. This takes me on to the question of validity

or otherwise of the advertisement. The petitioners of

CWJC No.8552 of 2005 have submitted that the

advertisement should be set aside because it is not

consistent with the Rules, for example, it does not

take into account the reservation for disabled persons

in terms of Section 33 of the Disabled Persons Act

1995. The Act was enforced with effect from 7.2.96.

The contention, therefore, merits serious

consideration whether or not the provisions for

reservation of the Disabled Persons Act are applicable

in the present context. Learned counsel for the

petitioners submitted that the provisions would apply

to the eligible candidates covered by the

advertisement for various reasons including the reason

that, in case of doubt or difficulty with respect to

applicability of such beneficial legislations, the

Court should lean in favour of the persons sought to

be benefited. The State of Bihar has not stated in

its pleadings whether or not this issue was considered

before sending its requisition to BPSC. 52. The petitioners of CWJC No.8032 of 2005 are

members of Scheduled Tribes. It was stated in the

advertisement that 21 seats shall be reserved for

members of Scheduled Tribes, whereas BPSC took note of 42 the letter of the Government in the Department of

Personnel & Administrative Reforms, dated 6.9.2003

(Annexure C to the counter affidavit of the State

Government in CWJC No.8032 of 2005), and reduced the

seats reserved for Scheduled Tribe candidates to 5

seats. As is obvious, the advertisement was published

on 21.5.2003, with which the selection process

commenced, and the Government issued its letter

reducing the number of seats reserved for Scheduled

Tribe candidates on 6.9.2003 (Annexure C). BPSC issued

a corrigendum also. In any view of the matter, law is

well settled that there cannot be interference with a

selection process after the prospectus or the

advertisement for examinations are issued. In Anuj

Gupta & Others v. State of Himachal Pradesh and others

reported in 1990, Volume 6 Service Law Reporter, page

79, it has been held that when the Prospectus for

admission to Engineering Colleges laid down that the

admission would be given on the basis of the results

of 10+2 examinations, the same method can not

subsequently be altered. It was further held that the

change of policy after the issue of the prospectus was

unfair to these candidates and can not be sustained in

law. The super imposition of PET after the issue of

the prospectus was for that reason held to be unfair

and unsustainable in law. The observations of the

Himachal Pradesh High Court were quoted with approval

by a Division Bench of this Court in its judgment

reported in 1993(1) PLJR 395 (Namita Jayswal vs State

of Bihar). This Court had also adverted to the

judgments reported in AIR 1968 Supreme Court, P.718

( Union of India vs. Anglo Afgan Agencies ), AIR 1979 43 Supreme Court, P.1628 ( Ramana Dayaram Shetty vs. I A

Authority of India ), and AIR 1984 Supreme Court, P.362

( British India Corpn. Ltd. vs. Industrial Tribunal,

Punjab ). I am also of the view that the number of

seats reserved for members of scheduled tribes could

not have been altered once the advertisement was

issued. 53. It also arises for consideration whether or

not those of the eligible candidates who have been

allocated to the State of Jharkhand after its

creation, can be considered for appointment by

promotion. This issue has from one angle been

discussed in the preceding paragraph hereinabove. It

would repetition to state that such employees shall as

a matter of right be entitled to appear at the limited

competitive examination and for consideration for

appointment against those of the vacancies which

occurred prior to creation of the State of Jharkhand. 54. The present State of Bihar must always in such

cases remind itself that the Bihar Reorganization Act 2000, was enforced with effect from 15.11.2000,the

appointed day on which date the new State of Jharkhand

was created comprising of the territories mentioned in Section 3 of the Act, and prior thereto formed part of

the undivided State of Bihar. The benefits which

accrued to the employees of the undivided State upto

15.11.2000 cannot be denied to them even though the

selection process is taking place at a later date.

They cannot suffer because of the inaction of the

State Government. I am, therefore, clearly of the view

that reservation of vacancies for Schedule Tribes

shall have to be ensured as per the law and the roster 44 system in force till 15.11.2000, with respect to the

vacancies which have occurred till 15.11.2000, and

there can be reduction of reserved seats thereafter.

Another important aspect of the matter is that the

vacancies have a direct nexus with the batches of

direct recruitment already conducted by BPSC. The said

letter dated 6.9.2003 (Annexure -C) is hereby set

aside. 55. The next question which arises for consideration

is whether or not B.P.S.C. was right in preparing a

consolidated list of the persons recommended for

appointment. The issue is covered by the order of a

Division Bench of this Court reported in (2008) 1 PLJR

623 (The State of Bihar Vs. Pramod Kumar), wherein it

has been held that, in view of the provisions of the

Bihar Administrative Service (Appointment through

Limited Competitive Examination) Rules, 1991,

different cut-off dates have been provided for

different batches which has a direct nexus with the

batch of direct recruits of B.P.S.C. 56. Identical issue under Indian Administrative

Service (Appointment by Promotion) Regulation 1955,

came up for consideration of this Court in the case of Ashok Kumar Vs. Union of India , (1999) 3 PLJR. 255.

The selection Committee constituted under the

Regulation prepared a consolidated list for the

vacancies occurring during the period of three years

as it could not meet as per Regulation during this

period. The Regulation requires the committee to meet

at intervals not exceeding one year and prepare the

select list. The Division Bench held that if it meets

after a gap of several years, it has to prepare 45 separate list for each year, keeping in view the

number of vacancies of that year after considering the

State Civil Service Officers who were eligible and

fell within the zone of consideration for selection in

that year. Hence the consolidated list was illegal. It

was further observed that holding of committee meeting

each year is intimately connected with and is an

integral part of the scheme envisaged by the

Regulations. If for any reason, the select committee

is not able to meet each year, it will certainly give

rise to complications. That, however, does not mean

that the Regulations can not be worked. The amendment

to Regulation 7(4) does not, in any manner, affect the

provisions which provide for the preparation of a

select list year-wise. Since the year-wise list is

sought to be prepared after a lapse of several years,

some minor deviations have to be permitted of

necessity, so that the regulations are substantially

complied with. The Division Bench, therefore,

concluded that amendment to Regulation 7(4) does not

touch the core question regarding preparation of the

select list for each year. 57. In that view of the matter, we uphold the

validity of the notification dated 27.6.2000(Annexure

D, at Page 86, of the paper book), whereby Government

employees who are eligible to be considered for the

vacancies occurring during 1982 to 1998 shall be

entitled to appear at the first limited competitive

examination. The objection that the prescribed

procedure in issuing the amending notification of

27.6.2000, as alleged, was not followed, has in the

present case to be ignored. Examinations have not been 46 held for such a large number of years although

appointment of direct recruits of various batches have

been held, surely seven batches if not more. Even

though there may be a joint selection process, the

merit-list has to be prepared year-wise /batch-wise

which is an integral part of the Rules. No person will

suffer any prejudice, and none will be required to

compete with ineligible candidates. The emphasis is on

preparation of year-wise/batch-wise list, and not on

consolidated examination. Seniority of the selected

candidates will depend on their position in the merit

list prepared year-wise. 58. In view of the foregoing discussion, we are of

the view that the advertisement dated 21.5.2003

(Annexure-1), ought to be set aside. 59. Learned counsel for the petitioners of CWJC

No. 8552 of 2005 has submitted that the second

advertisement published on 25.5.2005 (Annexure 1 to

CWJC No.8552 of 2005) may also for identical reasons

be set aside. The important feature is that, after

issuance of the advertisement, even the first step has

not been taken and even inchoate rights have not

emerged. Both the advertisements are identical, except

that the second advertisement is in relation to later

batches. The first advertisement of 21.5.2003 has

already been set aside. In that view of the matter,

the later advertisement for subsequent batches

published in the local dailies on 25.5.2005 is also

set aside. It will be open to the State Government and

BPSC to issue a combined advertisement and hold a

combined selection process, or separate advertisement

and separate selection process, in accordance with law 47 after taking into account the relevant provisions of

law and the observations made herein above. 60. In the result, challenge to the advertisement

of 21.5.2003, as well as the consequent selection

process and the merit-list prepared by B.P.S.C.,

succeeds. The selection process from the inception

inclusive of the advertisement, till the conclusion

inclusive of the merit list prepared by BPSC, and the

recommendations made by it, are hereby set aside. The

second advertisement of 25.5.2005 is also set aside.

Let the State Government forward fresh requisition(s)

to B.P.S.C. within a period of two months. Charge-

sheeted employees shall not be entitled to

consideration and appointment. The writ petitions are

accordingly disposed of. In the circumstances of the

case, there shall be no order as to costs. 61. We place on record our deep appreciation of

the work done by Mr. Neelmani, Additional Director

General of Police (Vigilance), and members of his

team, which we hope should go a long way in setting

right the functioning of BPSC. 62. Let copies of this judgment be handed over to

learned counsel for the Bihar Government and the

Cabinet (Vigilance) Department, forthwith. ( S.K.Katriar,J)

Patna High Court,Patna
Dated 12th September 2008. AFR / mrl.