Brief facts of the prosecution case:- Sunil Kumar (Linemen) alongwith local police officials ASI Chandra

FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 1 of 15
 Bhushan and Ct. Sunil at the premises of accused i.e. B-290, Second Floor,
 Opposite Metro Pillar No.162, New Ashok Nagar, Delhi-110096. At the
 time of inspection, no meter was found installed at site and the user/tenant
 Rahul was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through two core
 Black colour PVC aluminium illegal wire which was connected to LT
 Mains BSES Supply. Total connected load was found to be 4.536 KW
 which was being used for non-domestic purpose. Necessary videography
 of the irregularity was recorded by the videographer Sh. Ashish Gupta.
 The inspection report and load report were prepared at the spot. An
 advisory notice was also issued to the accused. Entire set of documents
 prepared at the spot was tendered to the user but the user refused to sign
 and accept the same. The illegal wires were removed from the site and
 seized at the spot. Public persons were requested to join the inspection
 proceedings but none agreed. Accused Sonu Choudhary was found to be
 landlord of the inspected premises and co-accused Rahul was found to be
 user/tenant. It is averred that accused Sonu Choudhary being owner of the
 inspected premises, abetted accused Rahul to commit direct theft of
 electricity. The act of the accused Rahul falls within the provision of section 135 / 138 of the Electricity Act and the act of the accused Sonu
 Chaudhary falls within the provisions of section 135 / 138 / 150 of the Act.
 On the basis of inspection, the complainant company assessed the demand
 to the tune of Rs.2,34,003/-. Accordingly following the guidelines of
 DERC, theft bill was raised and sent to the accused persons but they failed
 to deposit the said amount. Original CD of the said videography alongwith
 Certificate under section 65B of the Evidence Act was also submitted with

FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 2 of 15
 the complaint. Thus, a prayer was made in the complaint to register an FIR
 against the accused persons U/s 135/138/150 of the Act. 3. The SHO marked the said complaint (Ex.PW2/6) to Duty Officer
 with the direction to register an FIR and hand over the investigation of the
 case to HC Adesh Kumar, the IO of the case. The Duty Officer registered
 the present FIR against the accused persons under section 135 / 138 / 150 of
 the Act and handed over the investigation of the case to IO. Thereafter, IO
 visited inspected premises, served the accused Sonu Choudhary with the
 notice U/s 41.1A Cr.P.C . IO interrogated the accused and collected copy of
 his Aadhar Card. During investigation, it was revealed that co-accused
 Rahul was occupying the inspected premises as a tenant and after raid,
 said Rahul has vacated the inspected premises and went to an unknown
 place. IO bound down the accused Sonu Choudhary vide pabandinama.
 Despite efforts, co-accused/tenant Rahul could not be traced. After
 completion of investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the accused
 Sonu Choudhary U/s 135/138/150 of the Act. 4. On 10.03.2022, notice for the commission of offence U/s 135 r/w section 150 of the Act was given to accused Sonu Choudhary to which he
 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5. In order to prove its case against the accused, the prosecution
 examined following witnesses. In order to put the facts in chronological
 order, the testimony of members of inspection team is being discussed
 first:- During inspection, no electricity meter was found installed in the inspected
 premises and one person namely Rahul (could not be traced) was a found
 to be tenant in the aforesaid premises and accused Sonu Chaoudhary is the
 owner of the inspected premises and user/accused Rahul was indulged in
 direct theft of electricity through illegal tapping from LT Mains BSES
 Supply. The total connected load was found to be 4.536 KW which was
 being used for commercial purpose (Data Centre Office) at second floor.
 PW2 further deposed that at the time of inspection, one three phase meter
 no.17082467 was found installed which was being used for Infocom
 Tower installed at roof of the said premises. There was no meter for
 second floor i.e. inspected premises. PW2 also deposed that during
 inspection, user/tenant Rahul was present at the spot and necessary
 videography of the inspection proceedings was done by the videographer
 Sh. Ashish. The CD containing videography of the inspection proceedings
 has been brought on record as Ex.PW2/1. During evidence, the CD was
 played on the laptop and after seeing the video, witness has correctly
 identified the video which was recorded by the videographer during
 inspection. The witness also identified the tenant/user Rahul appearing in
 the said video. The inspection report Ex.PW2/2 and the load report
 Ex.PW2/3 were prepared at the spot. Entire set of inspection documents

FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 4 of 15
 was prepared in presence of accused/user Rahul and same was tendered to
 him but he refused to sign and accept the same. The illegal wire was
 removed by lineman Sh. Sunil Pawar and seized at the spot vide seizure
 memo Ex.PW2/4. On the basis of inspection, the theft bill of Rs.2,34,002/-
 (Ex.PW2/5) was raised and sent to accused. Thereafter, on 10.10.2019, he
 lodged a complaint (Ex.PW2/6) with the SHO, PS New Ashok Nagar for
 registration of an FIR against the accused. (5.2) PW3 Sh. S.P. Singh is Diploma Trainee Engineer (DET). This
 witness is another member of the inspection team and he also corroborated
 the testimony of PW2 and deposed on the similar lines of the testimony of
 PW2. (5.3) PW1 ASI Adesh Kumar (then HC) is the IO of the case. This
 witness deposed that on 14.10.2019, on the direction of SHO, the
 complaint (Ex.PW2/6) lodged by Sh. Rahul Bhattacharya, Sr. Manager,
 BSES YPL, was handed over to Duty Officer for registration of an FIR.
 Accordingly, Duty Officer registered FIR No.511/2019 and marked the
 investigation of the case to him. The copy of the FIR has been brought on
 record as Ex.PW1/1. Thereafter, on 25.11.2019, accused joined the
 investigation and during interrogation of accused, it was revealed that the
 inspected premises belonged to accused Sonu Choudhary at the relevant
 time and tenant/user Rahul was occupying the inspected premises.
 However, the accused/tenant Rahul could not be traced as he has already
 vacated the premises and went to an unknown place. Accused Sonu
 Choudhary also provided copy of his Aadhar Card Mark A. Accused Sonu
 Choudhary was bound down vide Pabandinama Ex.PW1/2. FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 5 of 15 6. After culmination of prosecution evidence, statement of accused
 Sonu Choudhary was recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C . Accused denied the
 inspection but he did not deny that electricity meter was not available at
 the inspected premises. Accused did not deny that inspected premises
 belongs to him and co-accused Rahul (since not arrested) was his tenant
 and inspected premises was occupied by his tenant Rahul. Accused Sonu
 Choudhary stated that he has settled the matter with the complainant
 company and he has also made the payment and an NOC has been issued.
 Accused opted not to lead any defence evidence. Accordingly opportunity
 to lead defence evidence was closed and matter was listed for final
 arguments. 7. Final arguments have been heard from the Ld. Addl. PP for the
 State as well as Ld. Counsel for the accused. During the course of
 arguments, Ld. Addl. PP for the State submitted that at the time of
 inspection, no electricity meter was available at the inspected premises. It
 is also submitted that accused Sonu Choudhary is the owner of the
 inspected premises during relevant time and user/co-accused Rahul was
 tenant in the inspected premises and thus, accused Sonu Choudhary let the
 user/co-accused Rahul to commit direct theft of electricity. It is further
 argued that the complainant company has proved its case against the
 accused beyond reasonable doubt through the testimonies of prosecution
 witnesses. 8. Ld. Defence Counsel, on the other hand, argued that accused is
 innocent and he has been falsely implicated in the present case. Accused
 has not committed any theft of electricity. It is further submitted that

FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 6 of 15
 matter has already been settled with the complainant company and
 settlement amount has already been paid and an NOC has already been
 issued in favour of the accused. 9. Before dealing with the factual aspect of the present case, it is
 deemed appropriate to specify the legal position and relevant provisions of
 the Act which are required to be gone into for appropriate disposal of the
 cases pertaining to section 135 / 150 of Electricity Act. The provisions of section 135 / 150 of the Electricity Act are reproduced as under:- 11. As per prosecution case, at the time of inspection, no electricity
 meter was available at the inspected premises and the user/accused Rahul
 (not traceable) was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through
 illegal wires. Accused Sonu Choudhary is the owner of the inspected
 premises and user/-co-accused Rahul was tenant in the said premises.
 Being owner of the inspected premises, accused Sonu Choudhary abetted
 the user/accused Rahul to commit direct theft of electricity. Thus, the onus
 was on the prosecution to prove these allegations against the accused
 persons beyond reasonable doubt. 12. PW2 Sh. Rahul Bhattacharya (DGM) and PW3 Sh. S.P. Singh
 (DET) are the material witnesses in this case. They have corroborated the
 allegations made in the complaint Ex.PW2/6 and their testimony is in
 conformity with the documents i.e. inspection report Ex.PW2/2, load
 report Ex.PW2/3 and seizure memo Ex.PW2/4. 13. PW3 Sh. S.P. Singh (DET) was also one of the members of the
 inspection team. He has corroborated the testimony of PW2 and deposed
 on the similar lines of the testimony of PW2. 14. It is clear from the testimony of PW2 and PW3 that on

FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 9 of 15
 13.10.2019, at about 12.20 pm, an inspection was carried out at the
 premises of accused by the inspecting team members/officials of
 complainant company and at the time of inspection, no electricity meter
 was available and this fact has not been disputed by the accused at all. It is
 further clear from the statement of PW1 as well as statement of accused
 U/s 313 Cr.P.C that the inspected premises belongs to accused Sonu
 Choudhary and co-accused Rahul (since not traced) was a tenant in the
 inspected premises at the time of inspection and this fact has not been
 disputed at all by the accused during cross-examination of PW1 as well as
 in his statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C . It is further clear that the user/accused
 was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wires and
 said illegal wires were removed by the lineman Sh. Sunil Pawar and the
 factum of removal of illegal wire by lineman has not been disputed by the
 accused during cross-examination of PW2 and PW3. In his statement,
 accused Sonu Choudhary did not deny that there was no electricity meter
 installed in the inspected premises. Inspection proceedings were recorded
 by videographer Sh. Ashish and CD containing videography of the said
 inspection proceedings was brought on record as Ex.PW2/1. Perusal of
 cross-examination of PW2 and PW3 shows that though, the accused
 endevaoured to dispute the factum of inspection, preparation of inspection
 documents, seizure memo and videography of the inspection proceedings,
 however, he has not specifically disputed the factum of preparation of the
 relevant documents, the contents and authenticity of the inspection report
 and CD containing videography of the inspection proceedings. PW2 and
 PW3 have deposed that inspection documents were prepared at site in

FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 10 of 15
 presence of co-accused Rahul and same were given to him but he refused
 to sign and accept the same and this fact has not been disputed by the
 accused during cross-examination of PW2 and PW3. Accused has also not
 specifically disputed the genuineness of assessment of load assessed by
 the complainant as mentioned in the load report Ex.PW2/3. During
 evidence, PW2 and PW3 identified the video recorded by videographer
 Sh. Ashish. Accused has also not disputed the identity of the inspected
 premises shown in the video contained in the CD Ex.PW2/1. PW2 also
 identified user/tenant Rahul in the said video and accused has not disputed
 this fact during cross-examination of this witness. Thus, inspection
 proceedings conducted at the time of inspection as well as videography of
 inspection proceedings recorded by videographer Sh. Ashish stands
 proved. 15. PW2 and PW3 have clearly deposed that accused/user was found
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. It is also clear
 from the statement of PW1 as well as statement of accused U/s 313 Cr.P.C that inspected premises belongs to accused Sonu Choudhary. It is also
 clear from the statement of PW1 and statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C that at the
 time of inspection, co-accused Rahul (could not be traced) was a tenant
 in the inspected premises. In case, accused Sonu Choudhary was unaware
 that co-accused Rahul has committed direct theft of electricity then he
 ought to have brought this fact to the notice of the complainant and he
 ought to have disassociated himself from the said illegal activity of the
 accused. However, it is clear that accused Sonu Choudhary did not take
 any action in this regard against the co-accused and his aforesaid conduct

FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 11 of 15
 speaks for itself that he was well aware of the illegal act of the co-accused
 Rahul. Thus, under these facts and circumstances, it can be very well said
 that once the accused Sonu Choudhary had come to know about the said
 illegal activity on the part of the co-accused, he ought to have taken
 appropriate action against him and he was also duty bound to inform the
 complainant about the same, however, he did not do the needful which
 shows that accused Sonu Choudhary was fully aware of the said illegal
 activity being committed by the co-accused. Thus, under these
 circumstances, it can be very well said that accused Sonu Choudhary has
 abetted the offence of direct theft of electricity. Thus, in view of settled
 provision of section 150 of the Act, the accused Sonu Choudhary being the
 owner of the inspected premises is liable for the offence of abetment as he
 let the user/tenant Rahul (not traceable) commit direct theft of electricity
 through illegal wire. Accused has simply denied the inspection and stated
 that he was not indulged in any type of theft of electricity and that the
 documents regarding the inspection proceedings were not prepared at the
 spot. Accused has not disputed the fact that the lineman removed the
 illegal wire through which the direct theft of electricity was being done by
 his tenant Rahul. Accused has neither disputed presence of the user/tenant
 Rahul in the videography contained in the CD Ex.PW2/1 nor he has
 explained as to how he is appearing in the said CD if videography of the
 inspection proceeding was not done at the spot at the time of inspection.
 Furthermore, accused admitted that no electricity meter was available at
 his premises at the time of inspection. During evidence before the court,
 CD (Ex.PW2/1) containing video clip of inspection proceedings was

FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 12 of 15
 played before the court which depicted the manner in which user/accused
 was indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. 16. In view of the statutory presumption mentioned in the third
 proviso of section 135 (1) of the Act, once the prosecution successfully
 establishes the charges against the accused regarding the theft of
 electricity, it is to be presumed that accused has committed theft of
 electricity unless accused brings some evidence on record to rebut the
 presumption. In view of the discussions made in the preceding paras, it is
 held that the prosecution has proved the charges against the accused that
 the user/co-accused Rahul (not arrested) who was tenant of accused, was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity and accused Sonu Choudhary was
 well aware of the same and therefore, in view of the third proviso of section 135 (1) of the Electricity Act 2003, it is to be presumed that
 accused said user/co-accused Rahul (not arrested) was indulged in direct
 theft of electricity, in connivance with accused Sonu Choudhary, if they
 are unable to rebut the statutory presumption. 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case reported as '2001 (6) SCC
 16 titled as Hiten P. Dalal vs Bratindranath Banerjee ' has laid down
 the law related to the rebuttal of statutory presumption. Relevant portion
 of the para no.16 is reproduced as under:- 18. In view of the settled law, now it is to be seen if the accused has

FIR No.511/2019 State vs Sonu Chaudhary 13 of 15
 taken any defence to rebut the presumption existed against him. Accused
 has simply stated in his statement recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C that he is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case. He stated that he has
 already settled the dispute and settlement amount has already been paid by
 him and an NOC has also been issued. Accused did not lead any defence
 evidence. If the co-accused Rahul was not indulged in direct theft of
 electricity or that he was using the electricity through any legal means,
 then the accused Sonu Choudhary, who claimed himself to be landlord of
 the inspected premises, was liable to rebut the statutory presumption by
 disproving the allegations made in the complaint by leading relevant
 defence evidence. It is admitted position of fact that inspected premises
 was belonging to accused Sonu Choudhary during relevant time, which
 was let out to co-accused Rahul (not traceable). It is clear from the
 evidence led by prosecution that at the time of inspection, co-accused
 Rahul (not arrested) was found indulged in direct theft of electricity and he
 was indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. Accused has
 not brought any material on record or lead any evidence to disprove all
 these allegations. Thus, it is held that accused has failed to rebut the
 statutory presumption. In this regard, this court is supported by the
 judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi reported as 'Mukesh Rastogi
 vs North Delhi Power Limited' 2007 (99) DRJ108. The observations
 made by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi are reproduced as under:- 19. In view of aforesaid discussions, it is held that the prosecution
 has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the user/co-accused Rahul was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. It is also proved
 on record that the inspected premises belongs to accused Sonu Choudhary
 at the time of inspection and he had let out the inspected premises to his
 tenant/user Rahul who was indulged in direct theft of electricity. Thus,
 accused Sonu Choudhary is guilty of abetment of offence of direct theft of
 electricity. Accordingly he is convicted for the offence punishable U/s 135
 r/w section 150 of the Electricity Act 2003. File be taken up again as
 and when user/co-accused Rahul is arrested. Digitally
 signed by
 AJAY
 AJAY GUPTA
 GUPTA Date: