Hon'ble Samit Gopal,J. (Per Samit Gopal,J. for the Bench) 1.	Matter taken up through video conferencing. 2.	The above-mentioned 12 writ petitions are connected together with 11 other writ petitions and are listed today in the additional / unlisted list and as such, a total of 23 writ petitions are connected together. Out of 23 writ petitions connected together, one writ petition being Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 4216 of 2021 ( Manish vs. State of U.P. and 03 others) has been prayed to be dismissed as infructuous by the learned counsel appearing therein on behalf of the petitioner and as such, separate order has been passed dismissing the same as being infructuous. 3.	The above-mentioned 12 writ petitions have been stated to be urgent in nature by the learned counsels appearing on behalf of the petitioners and they have prayed that their cases be heard and decided inspite of non-appearance of other learned counsels appearing in the connected matters to which learned Additional Government Advocates appearing for the State of U.P. have no objection and as such, this Court proceeds to hear and decide the above-mentioned 12 writ petitions on their own merits. 4.	The present bunch of writ petitions along with other writ petitions are connected together on the following question : 5.	The common ground as raised in all the writ petitions is that the petitioners have been made accused in the impugned first information reports which have been lodged under the provisions of the Gangsters Act on the basis of their involvement in a solitary case and even the gang chart prepared and approved by the authority shows that there is a single case against them on the basis of which, the impugned first information report has been registered which is illegal and against the essence of the Gangsters Act. The said first information report could not have been lodged on the basis of a solitary case and as such, the said writ petitions should be allowed and the respective impugned first information reports be quashed. 6.	Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 3938 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 0069 of 2021, under Section 3(1) of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Kotwali, District Basti. Sri Amrendra Pratap Singh, learned counsel appearing in matter argued that: 7.	Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 1296 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 297 of 2020, under Sections 2 / 3 (1) of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Colonelganj, District Prayagraj. Sri Aadesh Kumar Srivastava, learned counsel appearing in the matter argued that: 8.	 Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 1871 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 0028 of 2021, under Section 2 / 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 , Police Station Dhaulana, District Hapur. Sri Shiv Vilas Mishra, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that : 9.	Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 1873 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 61 of 2021, under Section 2 / 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Civil Lines, District Aligarh. Sri Araf Khan, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that : 10.	 Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 1986 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 0192 of 2020, under Section 2 / 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Pisava, District Aligarh. Sri Devesh Kumar Shukla, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that: 11.	Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 2019 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 0045 of 2021, under Section 3(1) of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Amroha City, District Amroha. Sri Jameel Ahmad Azmi, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that: 12.	 Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 2291 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 34 of 2021, under Section 2 / 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Jasrana, District Firozabad. Sri Rajesh Yadav, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that : 13.	 Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 3819 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 296 of 2020, under Section 2 / 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Nidhauli Kalan, District Etah. Sri Narayan Singh Kushwaha, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that: 14.	Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 3845 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 255 of 2021, under Section 3(1) of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Gajraula, District J.P. Nagar (Amroha). Sri Sandeep Kumar Srivastava, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that : 15.	Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 4149 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 159 of 2021, under Section 2 / 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Baberu, District Banda. Sri Pradip Kumar Rao, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that : 16.	Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 4185 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 0204 of 2021, under Section 2 / 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Kharkhauda, District Meerut. Sri Jamaluddin Mohd. Nasir, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that : 17.	 Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 4280 of 2021 has been filed challenging the first information report of Case Crime No. 05 of 2021, under Section 3(1) of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, Police Station Manchi, District Sonbhadra. Sri Anubhav Shukla, learned counsel appearing in the matter has argued that : 18.	Per contra, Sri J.K. Upadhyay and Sri Amit Sinha, learned Additional Government Advocates appearing for the State of U.P. argued that : 19.	Before dealing with the question in issue, it will be apt to reproduce Section 2 (b) and (c) of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 which are as follows:- 20.	The proposition as to whether a first information report under the Gangsters Act can be lodged on the basis of involvement of an accused in only once case is no more res integra. 21. In the judgement of Ajay Rai (supra) paragraph 6, 9 and 10 are as follows:- 22.	A Full Bench of this Court in the case of Ashok Kumar Dixit vs. State of U.P. : AIR 1987 Allahabad 235, has stated about the concept behind lodging of a first information report under the Gangsters Act. It has been held in paragraph 73 and 74 as follows:- 23. In the case of Subhash vs. State of U.P. and another : 1998 SCC Online All 973, a Division Bench of this Court framed the following questions while dealing with a writ petition in which there was a challenge to the first information reports under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 . The questions as framed are enumerated in paragraph 1 of the judgement which is as follows:- The answer to the questions enumerated in paragraph 1 of the judgement have been given in paragraph nos. 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the said judgement which are as follows:- Under these special rules of evidence, the Court is entitled to take into consideration the previous orders binding down an accused under Sections 107, 108, 109 or 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , or previous orders of detention under preventive laws, or previous orders of externment under the U.P. Control of Goondas Act , but the special rules of evidence do not permit consideration of previous conviction for an offence under any other law. This also suggests that the past acts are not meant to be punished under the provisions of the present legislation. 16. In dealing with the procedures, Section 7 of the Act provides that only a special Court constituted under the Act is to take up a case under this Act, is to try an offence under this Act, and Section 10 provides that the special Court is empowered to take cognizance of any offence triable by it, without there being a regular commitment order and cognizance could be taken either on complaint or a police report. Section 8 provides that when a special Court tries any offence punishable under this Act, it can also try any other offence with which the accused may, under any other law for the time being in force, be charged at the same trial. This suggests that if by a single act of omission the offender commits an offence under the general law as also one under this Act, both the offences may be tried together before the special Court. This saves the provisions of Section 300(4), Cr. P.C., as was observed by the Division Bench in Ajai Rai 's case (supra) at paragraph 13 of that judgment. We may, therefore, conclude that allegations of past acts may not be the sole criterion for institution of a case for an offence under this Act, rather if there be old cases pending on the date of institution of the F.I.R. under any other offence and for the same set of facts a case under this Act is also instituted, then those cases should also come to the special Court to avoid double jeopardy to the accused. We may, therefore, answer point No. 2 with the observation that a prosecution under the Act for past offence was not thought of unless elements of the offence under this Act are made out." It has been held in no uncertain terms while answering the question no. 1 that a first information report can be lodged even for a single act, if it is covered by the requirements of law. 24. In the judgement of Rinku @ Hukku (supra) paragraph 12 is as follows:- 25.	In the judgement of Kishan Pal @ K.P. (supra) while following the judgement in the case of Shamsul Islam and Rinku @ Hukku it has been also held as follows: 26.	The Full Bench of this Court in Ajit Singh @ Muraha Vs. State of U.P. and others : (2006) 56 ACC 433 reiterated the view taken by the earlier Full Bench in Satya Pal Vs. State of U.P. and others : 2000 Cr.L.J. 569 after considering the various decisions including State of Haryana Vs. Bhajan Lal and others : AIR 1992 SC 604 that there can be no interference with the investigation or order staying arrest unless cognizable offence is not ex-facie discernible from the allegations contained in the F.I.R. or there is any statutory restriction operating on the power of the police to investigate a case. 27.	Further the Apex Court in the case of State of Telangana v. Habib Abdullah Jellani : (2017) 2 SCC 779 has disapproved an order restraining the Investigating Agencies arresting the accused where prayer of quashing the First Information Report has been refused. 28.	The Apex Court in the case of M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Maharashtra and others : Criminal Appeal No. 330 of 2021 in its judgment dated 13th April, 2021 has in detail held that the Courts should not thwart any investigation into the cognizable offences. It is only in cases where no cognizable offence or offence of any kind is disclosed in the First Information Report that the Court will not permit an investigation to go on. The power of quashing should be exercised sparingly with circumspection, as it has been observed, in the rarest of rare cases. While examining an FIR/complaint, quashing of which is sought, the Court cannot embark upon an enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR/complaint. Criminal proceedings ought not to be scuttled at the initial stage. Quashing of complaint/FIR should be an exception rather than an ordinary rule. Ordinarily, the Courts are barred from usurping the jurisdiction of the police, since the two organs of the State operate in two specific spheres of activities and one ought not to tread over the other sphere. The First Information Report is not an encyclopaedia which must disclose all facts and details regarding the offence reported. Therefore, when the investigation by the police is in progress, the Court should not go into merits of the allegations made in the FIR. Police must be permitted to complete the investigation. 29.	After having heard the learned counsels for the parties and perusing the records, it is apparent that barring Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 4149 of 2021, all the above writ petitions were argued on the common point for which the question as framed, is answered that as per the settled principles of law, the lodging of a first information report on the basis of a single case, is valid and permissible. In a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, this Court cannot adjudicate the correctness of the allegations in the impugned first information reports or the cases on the basis of which the impugned first information reports have been lodged. The writ petitions are thus dismissed. 30.	In so far as Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 4149 of 2021 is concerned, the involvement of the petitioner is on the basis of two cases and even therein from perusal of the first information report, a cognizable offence is made out. The writ petition is also dismissed. 31.	The party shall file computer generated copy of this order downloaded from the official website of High Court Allahabad, self attested by the petitioner (s) along with a self attested identity proof of the said person (s) (preferably Aadhar Card) mentioning the mobile number (s) to which the said Aadhar Card is linked. 32.	The concerned Court/Authority/Official shall verify the authenticity of such computerized copy of the order from the official website of High Court Allahabad and shall make a declaration of such verification in writing.