1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No. 469 of 2020
 Reserved on: 10 July, 2020

 . The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anoop Chitkara, Judge. Whether approved for reporting?1 YES. For the petitioner: Mr. Virender Singh Kanwar, Advocate. For the respondent: Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Mr. Ashwani K. Sharma
 Additional Advocates General with Mr. Ram
 Lal Thakur, Asstt. A.G. & Mr. Rajat Chauhan,
 Law Officer. Mr. Ankush Dass Sood, Senior Advocate with
 Ms. Shweta Joolka, Advocate as Amicus
 Curiae. COURT PROCEEDINGS CONVENED THROUGH VIDEO CONFERENCE

 Anoop Chitkara, Judge

 The petitioner, who is under incarceration from 15 th Jan 2020, for allegedly
 hiring accused Balkar and Manjeet Singh for purchasing 1 kilogram and 218
 grams of charas, has come up before this Court seeking bail. 2. Based on a First Information Report (FIR), the police arrested the
 petitioner, in FIR No.198 of 2019, dated 30.08.2019, registered under Section
 20 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (after now
 called " NDPS Act "), in Police Station, Boileauganj, District Shimla, Himachal
 Pradesh, disclosing cognizable and non-bailable offences. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 3. The petitioner filed a petition under Section 439 CrPC before Special
 Judge (II), Shimla, District Shimla, H.P. However, vide order dated
 29.01.2020, the Court dismissed the petition, because, in the opinion of the

 . Court, the petitioner could not cross the rigors of S. 37 of the NDPS Act and

 the petitioner and the main accused, from whose possession the Investigator
 had recovered the charas, had made multiple phone calls between them,

 which calls immediately preceded such seizure. 4. I have read the status report(s) and heard Ld. Counsel for the parties.
 Learned counsel for the petitioner has annexed the status report filed by the

 respondent-State. Learned Additional Advocate General submits that he
 does not want to present the new status report, and the status report filed
 with the petition may be considered. FACTS: 5. The allegations in the First Information Report and the gist of the
 evidence collected by the Investigator are on Aug 30, 2019, a police party
 headed by ASI, was on traffic control duty at Police Check Post, Khwara

 Chowki, Shoghi. At around 6.30 p.m., one motorcycle came from the Shimla
 side. Apart from the driver, it had a pillion rider. The ASI signaled the bike to

 stop, on which the driver parked it on the side of the road. The pillion rider
 had a cloth bag on his lap. The moment the police officer asked the driver of

 the motorcycle to show documents, the pillion rider opened the bag's zip, and
 the Police could notice the charas in it. On this, the Police inquired the

 names of the driver of the motorcycle, who revealed his name as Balkar,
 accused No.1, and the pillion rider told his name as Manjeet Singh, accused
 No.2. After that, the Police weighed the charas, which measured one
 kilogram and 218 grams. After completing the procedural requirement under
 the NDPS Act and CrPC , the Police sent the ruqa for registration of FIR and
 arrested these two accused persons. On the next day, the Police
 interrogated accused Balkar and Manjeet Singh. During the investigation,
 both the accused told the Investigator that Sandeep Kumar, the bail
 petitioner, a resident of Mohali (Punjab), had hired them to purchase the
 charas from one Govind Singh, resident of Kullu. The said Sandeep Kumar ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2020 20:22:08 :::HCHP 3 had also given the phone number of Govind Singh and his phone number to
 both these accused persons Balkar and Manjeet Singh. It transpired during
 the investigation that there was an exchange of calls between Sandeep

 . Singh, Balkar, and Govind Singh. The Police obtained a call details record

 (CDR) to establish its case. After that, the Police started searching Sandeep
 Kumar and Govind Singh. On Jan 15, 2020, the Police traced the bail

 petitioner Sandeep Kumar from Badmazra, Panjab, and arrested him. SUBMISSIONS: ANALYSIS AND REASONING: . 11. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and others v. State of Punjab , 1980 (2)
 SCC 565, a Constitutional bench of Supreme Court holds in Para 30, as
 follows,

 It is thus clear that the question whether to grant bail or
 not depends for its answer upon a variety of
 circumstances, the cumulative effect of which must
 enter into the judicial verdict. Any one single

 circumstance cannot be treated as of universal validity
 or as necessarily justifying the grant or refusal of bail 12. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav , 2005

 (2) SCC 42, a three-member bench of Supreme Court holds,

 "18. It is trite law that personal liberty cannot be taken
 away except in accordance with the procedure
 established by law. Personal liberty is a constitutional

 guarantee. However, Article 21 which guarantees the
 above right also contemplates deprivation of personal
 liberty by procedure established by law. Under the
 criminal laws of this country, a person accused of

 offences which are non-bailable is liable to be detained
 in custody during the pendency of trial unless he is

 enlarged on bail in accordance with law. Such detention
 cannot be questioned as being violative of Article 21 since the same is authorised by law. But even persons
 accused of non-bailable offences are entitled for bail if

 the court concerned comes to the conclusion that the
 prosecution has failed to establish a prima facie case
 against him and/or if the court is satisfied for reasons to
 be recorded that in spite of the existence of prima facie
 case there is a need to release such persons on bail
 where fact situations require it to do so. In that process
 a person whose application for enlargement on bail is
 once rejected is not precluded from filing a subsequent
 application for grant of bail if there is a change in the
 fact situation. In such cases if the circumstances then
 prevailing requires that such persons to be released on
 bail, in spite of his earlier applications being rejected,
 the courts can do so." 13. In State of Rajasthan, Jaipur v. Balchand , AIR 1977 SC 2447,
 Supreme Court holds,

 . 2. The basic rule may perhaps be tersely put as bail,

 not jail, except where there are circumstances
 suggestive of fleeing from justice or thwarting the
 course of justice or creating other troubles in the shape
 of repeating offences or intimidating witnesses and the

 like by the petitioner who seeks enlargement on bail
 from the court. We do not intend to be exhaustive but
 only illustrative. 3. It is true that the gravity of the offence involved is
 likely to induce the petitioner to avoid the course of

 justice and must weigh with us when considering the
 question of jail. So also the heinousness of the crime. 14. In Gudikanti Narasimhulu v. Public Prosecutor, High Court of

 Andhra Pradesh, (1978) 1 SCC 240, Supreme Court in Para 16, holds,

 The delicate light of the law favours release unless
 countered by the negative criteria necessitating that
 course. 15. In Dataram Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh , (2018) 3 SCC 22,
 Supreme Court holds, 1. A fundamental postulate of criminal jurisprudence is

 the presumption of innocence, meaning thereby that a
 person is believed to be innocent until found guilty. However, there are instances in our criminal law where
 a reverse onus has been placed on an accused with
 regard to some specific offences but that is another
 matter and does not detract from the fundamental

 postulate in respect of other offences. Yet another
 important facet of our criminal jurisprudence is that the
 grant of bail is the general rule and putting a person in
 jail or in a prison or in a correction home (whichever
 expression one may wish to use) is an exception. 6. However, we should not be understood to mean that
 bail should be granted in every case. The grant or
 refusal of bail is entirely within the discretion of the
 judge hearing the matter and though that discretion is
 unfettered, it must be exercised judiciously and in a
 humane manner and compassionately. Also, conditions
 for the grant of bail ought not to be so strict as to be
 incapable of compliance, thereby making the grant of ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2020 20:22:08 :::HCHP 6 bail illusory. 16. Section 2 (vii-a) of the NDPS Act defines commercial quantity as the
 quantity greater than the quantity specified in its schedule, and S. 2 (xxiii-a),

 . defines a small quantity as the quantity lesser than the quantity specified in

 the schedule. The remaining quantity falls in an undefined category, which is
 now generally called as intermediate quantity. All Sections in the NDPS Act ,

 which specify an offence, also mention the minimum and maximum
 sentence, depending upon the quantity of the substance. When the
 substance falls under commercial quantity statute mandates minimum
 sentence of ten years of imprisonment and a minimum fine of INR One Lac,

 and bail is subject to the riders mandated in S. 37 of NDPS Act. 17. In the present case, as per the contentions of the State, the quantity of
 substance seized is commercial quantity. Given the legislative mandate of S.

 37 of NDPS Act, the Court can release a person, accused of an offence

 punishable under the NDPS Act for possessing a commercial quantity of
 contraband only after passing its rigors. Section 37 of the Act is extracted as
 under: - 18. Reading of Section 37(1)(b)(ii) mandates that two conditions are to be
 satisfied before a person/accused of possessing a commercial quantity of
 drugs or psychotropic substance, is to be released on bail. . 19. The first condition is to provide an opportunity to the Public Prosecutor
 and clear her stand on the bail application. The second stipulation is that the
 Court must be satisfied that reasonable grounds exist for believing that the

 accused is not guilty of such offence and that during bail is not likely to
 commit any offence while on bail. If either of these two conditions is not met,
 the ban on granting bail operates. The expression "reasonable grounds" 20. JUDICIAL PRECEDENTS ON S. 37 OF NDPS ACT: The High Court overlooked the prescribed procedure." b) In Customs, New Delhi v. Ahmadalieva Nodira , (2004) 3 SCC 549, a
 three Judges Bench of Supreme Court holds, 7. The limitations on granting of bail come in only when
 the question of granting bail arises on merits. Apart from
 the grant of opportunity to the public prosecutor, the
 other twin conditions which really have relevance so far
 the present accused-respondent is concerned, are (1) ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2020 20:22:08 :::HCHP 8 the satisfaction of the Court that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty of the
 alleged offence and that he is not likely to commit any
 offence while on bail. The conditions are cumulative and

 . not alternative. The satisfaction contemplated regarding

 the accused being not guilty has to be based for
 reasonable grounds. The expression "reasonable
 grounds" means something more than prima facie
 grounds. It contemplates substantial probable causes

 for believing that the accused is not guilty of the alleged
 offence. The reasonable belief contemplated in the
 provision requires existence of such facts and
 circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to justify
 satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the alleged

 offence. c) In Union of India v. Sanjeev v. Deshpande, (2014) 13 SCC 1, a three-
 judges bench of Supreme Court holds, 5. ...In other words, Section 37 departs from the long

 established principle of presumption of innocence in
 favour of an accused person until proved otherwise. d) In Satpal Singh v. State of Punjab , (2018) 13 SCC 813, a bench of

 three judges of Supreme Court directed that since the quantity involved was
 commercial, as such High Court could not have and should not have passed
 the order under sections 438 or 439 CrPC , without reference to Section 37 of

 the NDPS Act. e) In Narcotics Control Bureau v Kishan Lal , 1991 (1) SCC 705,

 Supreme Court holds, 6. Section 37 as amended starts with a non-obstante
 clause stating that notwithstanding anything contained
 in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 no person
 accused of an offence prescribed therein shall be
 released on bail unless the conditions contained therein
 were satisfied. The Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic
 Substances Act is a special enactment as already noted
 it was enacted with a view to make stringent provision
 for the control and regulation of operations relating to
 narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. That being
 the underlying object and particularly when the
 provisions of Section 37 of Narcotic Drugs And
 Psychotropic Substances Act are in negative terms ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2020 20:22:08 :::HCHP 9 limiting the scope of the applicability of the provisions of Criminal Procedure Code regarding bail, in our view, it
 cannot be held that the High Court's powers to grant
 bail under Section 439 Criminal Procedure Code are

 . not subject to the limitation mentioned under Section 37 of Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances Act.
 The non-obstante clause with which the Section starts
 should be given its due meaning and clearly it is
 intended to restrict the powers to grant bail. In case of

 inconsistency between Section 439 Criminal Procedure
 Code and Section 37 of the Narcotic Drugs and
 Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 Section 37 prevails. f) In Babua v. State of Orissa , (2001) 2 SCC 566, Supreme Court holds,

 [3] In view of Section 37(1)(b) of the Act unless there
 are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused
 is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to
 commit any offence while on bail alone will entitle him to

 a bail. In the present case, the petitioner attempted to

 secure bail on various grounds but failed. But those
 reasons would be insignificant if we bear in mind the
 scope of Section 37(1)(b) of the Act. At this stage of the
 case all that could be seen is whether the statements
 made on behalf of the prosecution witnesses, if

 believable, would result in conviction of the petitioner or
 not. At this juncture, we cannot say that the accused is
 not guilty of the offence if the allegations made in the
 charge are established. Nor can we say that the

 evidence having not been completely adduced before
 the Court that there are no grounds to hold that he is

 not guilty of such offence. The other aspect to be borne
 in mind is that the liberty of a citizen has got to be
 balanced with the interest of the society. In cases where
 narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances are

 involved, the accused would indulge in activities which
 are lethal to the society. Therefore, it would certainly be
 in the interest of the society to keep such persons
 behind bars during the pendency of the proceedings
 before the Court, and the validity of Section 37(1)(b) having been upheld, we cannot take any other view. g) In Bijando Singh v. Md. Ibocha, 2004(10) SCC 151, Supreme Court
 holds, 3. Being aggrieved by the order of the Special Court
 (NDPS), releasing the accused on bail, the appellant
 moved the Guwahati High Court against the said order
 on the ground that the order granting bail is contrary to ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2020 20:22:08 :::HCHP 10 the provisions of law and the appropriate authority
 never noticed the provisions of Section 37 of the
 Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances Act. The
 High Court, however, being of the opinion that if the

 . attendance of the accused is secured by means of bail

 bonds, then he is entitled to be released on bail. The
 High Court, thus, in our opinion, did not consider the
 provisions of Section 37 of the Narcotic Drugs And
 Psychotropic Substances Act. h) In N.C.B.Trivandrarum v. Jalaluddin, 2004 Law Suit (SC) 1598,
 Supreme Court observed, 3. ...Be that as it may another mandatory requirement

 of Section 37 of the Act is that where Public Prosecutor
 opposes the bail application, the court should be
 satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing
 that the accused is not guilty of such offence and he is

 not likely to commit any offence while on bail. In the
 impugned order we do not find any such satisfaction

 recorded by the High Court while granting bail nor there
 is any material available to show that the High Court
 applied its mind to these mandatory requirements of the
 Act. i) In Union of India v. Shiv Shanker Kesari , (2007) 7 SCC 798,
 Supreme Court holds, 6. As the provision itself provides no person shall be
 granted bail unless the two conditions are satisfied. They are; the satisfaction of the Court that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not
 guilty and. that he is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail. Both the conditions have to be satisfied. If

 either of these two conditions is not satisfied, the bar
 operates and the accused cannot be released on bail. 7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is
 "reasonable grounds". The expression means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It connotes
 substantial probable causes for believing that the
 accused is not guilty of the offence charged and this
 reasonable belief contemplated in turn points to
 existence of such facts and circumstances as are
 sufficient in themselves to justify recording of
 satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the offence
 charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima facie
 meaning of reasonable in regard to those ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2020 20:22:08 :::HCHP 11 circumstances of which the actor, called on to act
 reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is difficult to give
 an exact definition of the word 'reasonable'. Stroud's
 Judicial Dictionary, Fourth Edition, page 2258 states

 . that it would be unreasonable to expect an exact

 definition of the word "reasonable'. Reason varies it, its
 conclusions according to the idiosyncrasy of the
 individual, and the times and circumstances in which he
 thinks. The reasoning which built up the old scholastic

 logic sounds now like the jingling of a child's toy. (See : 9. It is often said "an attempt to give a specific meaning
 to the word 'reasonable' is trying to count what is not
 number and measure what is not space". The author of
 'Words and Phrases' (Permanent Edition) has quoted

 from in re Nice &., Schreiber 123 F. 987, 988 to give a

 plausible meaning for the said word. He says, "the
 expression 'reasonable' is a relative term, and the facts
 of the particular controversy must be considered before
 the question as to what constitutes reasonable can be
 determined". It is not meant to be expedient or

 convenient but certainly something more than that. 10. The word 'reasonable' signifies "in accordance with
 reason". In the ultimate analysis it is a question of fact,
 whether a particular act is reasonable or not depends

 on the circumstances in a given situation. (See : 11. The Court while considering the application for bail
 with reference to Section 37 of the Act is not called

 upon to record a finding of not guilty. It is for the limited
 purpose essentially confined to the question of
 releasing the accused on bail that the Court is called
 upon to see if there are reasonable grounds for
 believing that the accused is not guilty and records its
 satisfaction about the existence of such grounds. But
 the Court has not to consider the matter as if it is
 pronouncing a judgment of acquittal and recording a
 finding of not guilty. 12. Additionally, the Court has to record a finding that
 while on bail the accused is not likely to commit any
 offence and there should also exist some materials to
 come to such a conclusion. j) In N.R. Mon v. Md. Nasimuddin , (2008) 6 SCC 721, Supreme Court
 holds, 9. ...The limitations on granting of bail come in only

 . when the question of granting bail arises on merits. Apart from the grant opportunity to the Public
 Prosecutor, the other twin conditions which really have
 relevance so far as the present accused-respondent is
 concerned, are: the satisfaction of the court that there

 are reasonable grounds for believing, that the accused
 is not guilty of the alleged offence and that he is not
 likely to commit any offence while on bail. The
 conditions are cumulative and not alternative. The
 satisfaction contemplated regarding the accused being

 not guilty has to be based on reasonable grounds. The
 expression "reasonable grounds" means something
 more than prima facie grounds. It contemplates
 substantial probable causes for believing that the
 accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. The

 reasonable belief contemplated in the provision requires

 existence of such facts and circumstances as are
 sufficient in themselves to justify satisfaction that the
 accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. In the case
 hand the High Court seems to have completely
 overlooked underlying object of Section 37 . k) In Union of India v. Rattan Mallik @ Habul , (2009) 2 SCC 624,
 Supreme Court holds, 14. We may, however, hasten to add that while
 considering an application for bail with reference to Section 37 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
 Substances Act, the Court is not called upon to record a
 finding of 'not guilty'. At this stage, it is neither

 necessary nor desirable to weigh the evidence
 meticulously to arrive at a positive finding as to whether
 or not the accused has committed offence under the Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances Act . What
 is to be seen is whether there is reasonable ground for
 believing that the accused is not guilty of the offence(s)
 he is charged with and further that he is not likely to
 commit an offence under the said Act while on bail. The
 satisfaction of the Court about the existence of the said
 twin conditions is for a limited purpose and is confined
 to the question of releasing the accused on bail. l) In Union of India v. Niyazuddin & Anr , (2018) 13 SCC 738, Supreme
 Court holds, ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2020 20:22:08 :::HCHP 13 7. ... Section 37 of the NDPS Act contains special
 provisions with regard to grant of bail in respect of
 certain offences enumerated under the said Section.
 They are :- (1) In the case of a person accused of an

 . offence punishable under Section 19 , (2) Under Section

 24 , (3) Under Section 27A and (4) Of offences involving
 commercial quantity. The accusation in the present
 case is with regard to the fourth factor namely,
 commercial quantity. Be that as it may, once the Public

 Prosecutor opposes the application for bail to a person
 accused of the enumerated offences under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, in case, the court proposes to grant
 bail to such a person, two conditions are to be
 mandatorily satisfied in addition to the normal

 requirements under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any
 other enactment. (1) The court must be satisfied that
 there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
 person is not guilty of such offence; (2) that person is
 not likely to commit any offence while on bail. 8. There is no such consideration with regard to the

 mandatory requirements, while releasing the
 respondents on bail. 9. Hence, we are satisfied that the matter needs to be
 considered afresh by the High Court. The impugned
 order is set aside and the matter is remitted to the High

 Court for fresh consideration. It will be open to the
 parties to take all available contentions before the High
 Court. m) In Sujit Tiwari v. State of Gujarat , 2020 SCC Online SC 84, in the

 given facts, Supreme Court granted bail, by observing, 10. The prosecution story is that the appellant was
 aware of what his brother was doing and was actively

 helping his brother. At this stage we would not like to
 comment on the merits of the allegations levelled
 against the present appellant. But other than the
 few WhatsApp messages and his own statement which
 he has resiled from, there is very little other evidence.
 At this stage it appears that the appellant may not have
 even been aware of the entire conspiracy because even
 the prosecution story is that the brother himself did not
 know what was loaded on the ship till he was informed
 by the owner of the vessel. Even when the heroin was
 loaded in the ship it was supposed to go towards Egypt
 and that would not have been a crime under the NDPS
 Act . It seems that Suprit Tiwari and other 7 crew
 members then decided to make much more money by
 bringing the ship to India with the intention of disposing ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2020 20:22:08 :::HCHP 14 of the drugs in India. During this period the Master
 Suprit Tiwari took the help of Vishal Kumar Yadav and
 Irfan Sheikh who had to deliver the consignment to
 Suleman who had to arrange the money after delivery. . The main allegation made against the appellant is that

 he sent the list of the crew members after deleting the
 names of 4 Iranians and Esthekhar Alam to Vishal
 Kumar Yadav and Irfan Sheikh through WhatsApp with
 a view to make their disembarkation process easier. Even if we take the prosecution case at the highest, the
 appellant was aware that his brother was indulging in
 some illegal activity because obviously such huge
 amount of money could not be made otherwise.
 However, at this stage it cannot be said with certainty

 whether he was aware that drugs were being smuggled
 on the ship or not, though the allegation is that he made
 such a statement to the NCB under Section 67 of the
 NDPS Act. 11. At this stage, without going into the merits, we feel

 that the case of the appellant herein is totally different

 from the other accused. Reasonable possibility is there
 that he may be acquitted. He has been behind bars
 since his arrest on 04.08.2017 i.e. for more than 2 years
 and he is a young man aged about 25 years. He is a
 B.Tech Graduate. Therefore, under facts and

 circumstances of this case we feel that this is a fit case
 where the appellant is entitled to bail because there is a
 possibility that he was unaware of the illegal activities of
 his brother and the other crew members. The case of

 the appellant is different from that of all the other
 accused, whether it be the Master of the ship, the crew

 members or the persons who introduced the Master to
 the prospective buyers and the prospective buyers. 12. We, however, feel that some stringent conditions
 will have to be imposed upon the appellant. SUM UP: Ahmadalieva Nodira, (2004) 3 SCC 549]. b) In case the Court proposes to grant bail, two conditions are to be
 mandatorily satisfied in addition to the standard requirements
 under the provisions of the CrPC or any other enactment. [ Union of
 India v. Niyazuddin & Anr , (2018) 13 SCC 738]. . c) Apart from granting opportunity to the Public Prosecutor, the other
 twin conditions which really have relevance are the Court's
 satisfaction that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
 the accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. [N.R. Mon v. Md. Nasimuddin, (2008) 6 SCC 721]. d) The satisfaction contemplated regarding the accused being not
 guilty has to be more than prima facie grounds, considering
 substantial probable causes for believing and justifying that the

 accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. [ Customs, New Delhi v.
 Ahmadalieva Nodira , (2004) 3 SCC 549]. e) Twin conditions of S. 37 are cumulative and not alternative. [ Customs, New Delhi v. Ahmadalieva Nodira , (2004) 3 SCC 549]. f) If the statements of the prosecution witnesses are believed, then
 they would not result in a conviction. [ Babua v. State of Orissa ,
 (2001) 2 SCC 566]. g) At this stage, it is neither necessary nor desirable to weigh the

 evidence meticulously to arrive at a positive finding as to whether
 or not the accused has committed an offence under the NDPS Act and further that he is not likely to commit an offence under the
 said Act while on bail. [ Union of India v. Rattan Mallik @ Habul , (2009)

 2 SCC 624]. h) While considering the application for bail concerning Section 37 ,
 the Court is not called upon to record a finding of not guilty. [ Union
 of India v. Shiv Shanker Kesari , (2007) 7 SCC 798]. i) Section 37 departs from the long-established principle of
 presumption of innocence in favour of an accused person until
 proved otherwise. [ Union of India v. Sanjeev v. Deshpande, (2014) 13
 SCC 1]. j) In case of inconsistency, S. 37 of the NDPS Act prevails over S.
 439 CrPC. [ Narcotics Control Bureau v Kishan Lal , 1991 (1) SCC 705]. k) Bail must be subject to stringent conditions. [ Sujit Tiwari v. State of
 Gujarat , 2020 SCC Online SC 84]. 22. The difference in the order of bail and final judgment is similar to a
 sketch and a painting. However, some sketches would be detailed and ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2020 20:22:08 :::HCHP 16 paintings with a few strokes. Satisfying the fetters of S. 37 of the NDPS Act is
 candling the infertile eggs. 23. A perusal of the status report reveals the details of calls between the

 . accused, preceding contraband's seizure. The bail petition is silent about this

 aspect. The Investigator has collected sufficient evidence to make out a
 prima facie case against the bail petitioner. 24. Without commenting on the merits of the evidence collected so far, the
 petitioner has failed to cross the hurdle of S. 37 of NDPS Act. The
 conscience of the Court does not prick to believe the petitioner's entitlement

 for bail. 25. Any detailed discussions about the evidence may prejudice the case of
 the prosecution or the accused. Suffice it to say that due to the reasons

 mentioned above, and keeping in view the nature of allegations, no case for

 bail is made out in favour of the petitioner. 26. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion
 on the merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 27. Given the above reasoning, in my considered opinion, no case for bail
 is made out at this stage. Resultantly, the present petition stands dismissed. All pending applications, if any, stand closed. 28. This Court expresses its gratitude to Mr. Ankush Dass Sood, learned
 Senior Advocate assisted by Ms. Shweta Joolka, Advocate for rendering
 valuable assistance to this Court pro bono. 29. While deciding the propositions of law involved in this matter, I have
 considered all the similar orders/judgments pronounced by me. Thus, this
 order is more comprehensive and up to date. Given above, all previous
 decisions/orders passed by me where the proposition of law was similar, or
 somewhat similar, and also those passed under Section 37 of NDPS Act, be
 not cited as precedents. Petition dismissed.