Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been arrested in connection with
 Crime No.129/2006 registered with Police Station, Civil
 Lines, Chhattarpur - commonly known as VYAPAM
 Examination Scam Cases - for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 & 468 of IPC and Section 3 / 4 of the
 M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant is that of beneficiary.
 According to the prosecution, the applicant through his
 close relative - Leelam @ Ajay Singh arranged for
 impersonator - Dinesh Kumar Singh, who appeared in the
 VYAPAM Examination in place of the applicant. The offence was committed in the year 2006. Initially,
 it was registered only for the offences punishable under Sections 419 and 420 of IPC and 3/4 of the M.P. Manyata
 Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. However, recently after
 the supervision of investigation was taken over by the STF
 pursuant to the decision of this Court in public interest
 litigation, further investigation of the case was done and as a 2 result of which, further police report under Section 173 (8) of Cr.P.C. has been filed before the concerned Court for
additional offences punishable under Sections 467 and 468 of IPC. In view of the additional offences invoked by the
prosecution, the trial Court was pleased to cancel the bail
granted to the applicant on 17.12.2008 inspite of having
recorded the finding that the applicant had punctually
appeared before the trial Court after grant of bail. Considering the fact that the investigation is complete
in all respects qua the applicant and supplementary charge-
sheet has been filed for additional offences and custodial
interrogation of the applicant is no more required as of now
coupled with the fact that the applicant through counsel
assures to extend full cooperation to the Investigating Officer
for further investigation, if required, after arrest of
absconding accused - Leelam @ Ajay Singh and also to
punctually appear before the trial Court for early disposal of
the trial and the applicant had punctually appeared before the
trial Court after being released on bail in the year 2008,
taking overall view of the matter, the application is allowed
and the applicant is directed to be released on bail on
following conditions to be strictly observed by the
applicant:- The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.