Purbaliyan, PS Mansoorpur, District Muzaffar
 Nagar, Uttar Pradesh. (e) Offences Under Section 279/337/304A of The Indian
 Penal Code , 1860. (f) Plea of accused persons Pleaded not guilty. 1. The case of the Prosecution, in brief, is that on 23.02.2004, at around 6:00
 PM, near Chaudhary Ram Rikh Yadav, MCD Primary School, Shakur Pur
 Village, within the jurisdiction of PS:Saraswati Vihar, Delhi, the accused
 person was driving a vehicle i.e. Eicher Canter, bearing no. UP12G-5382
 (shall be referred to as offending vehicle) in a public way at a very high
 speed and in a rash and negligent manner so as to endanger human life and
 personal safety of others. While driving it in such a manner and coming
 from the opposite side, he hit a cart stationed near the gate of the said school
 and having lost the control over the offending vehicle, took a sharp turn
 towards left and hit a cycle rikshaw and Shri Tulsi Ram @ Sunshi Ram (the
 deceased) who was on his foot with his son, namely, Shri Gulshan. After
 hitting them, a Maruti Car bearing number DL8CC1533 was hit and it was
 then that the offending vehicle got stopped. Ms. Kasturba Joshi who was
 standing near the said cart and Shri Chander Kishore, the said cycle rikshaw
 puller, sustained simple injuries whereas Shri Tulsi Ram fell down on the
 road unconcious was declared brought dead by Doctors at Babu Jagjivan
 Ram Memorial Hospital, Jahangirpuri. The matter was reported to the
 Police. Instant FIR was registered. Investigation was carried out. Statement
 of the witnesses was recorded. Upon completion of investigation, charge-
 sheet was filed in the Court on 11/01/2005 against the accused wherein
 alleging against the commission of the offences punishable under Sections
 279 / 337 / 304A of The Indian Penal Code , 1860 (in short shall be referred to
 as IPC ). Hence, the instant FIR was registered. RAJANI by Digitally signed RAJANI RANGA RANGA 2024.07.11
 Date: 2. On 16/02/2006, notice in terms of Section 251 of The Code of Criminal
 Procedure , 1973 (in short shall be referred to as CrPC ) was served upon the
 accused for the alleged commission of the offences punishable under Section
 279 / 337 / 304A IPC to which the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed
 trial. Statement of the accused in term of Section 294 CrPC 3. The accused did not dispute the genuineness of the Register no. 19 which
 records the factum of deposition of the case property in the Malkhana,
 Ex.A1, in terms of Section 294 CrPC. Witnesses examined by the Prosecution 4. During trial, Prosecution examined the Complainant/Shri Gulshan @
 Ugrasen as PW1, Smt. Kasturba Joshi as PW2, Dr. Sanjay Kumar as PW3,
 Sh. Lalita Prasad Joshi as PW4, Shri Raj Kumar Lomesh as PW5, HC Raj
 Kumar as PW6, Retired ASI/Devender Kumar as PW7, Inspector Arjun
 Singh as PW8, Dr. B.N. Acharya as PW9, Shri Rajender Pal Singh as PW10,
 HC Shri Bhagwan as PW11, SI Satya Pal Singh (retired) as PW12 and Dr.
 Bhavna Saxena as PW13. 5. The Prosecution could not examined Shri Parmamand (one who identified
 the dead body of the deceased), Shri Chandar Kishore (cycle rikshaw puller
 and one of the injured) and Shri Naushad Ali (the owner of the offending
 vehicle) as their presence could not be secured in the Court for the purpose Digitally signed by RAJANI RAJANI RANGA
FIR No. 172/2004 State Vs. Chhota Khan Page no. 3-13 Date: 6. After closing of Prosecution evidence on 19/03/2024, statement of the
 accused was recorded in terms of Section 313 CrPC on 15/05/2024. All the
 incriminating material was put to the accused and he was questioned
 generally on the case. He denied all the allegations and stated that he is
 innocent. He took the plea of false implication. The accused opted not to
 lead any defence. Final Arguments 7. Final arguments have been heard. Record including the material available on
 record have been perused and considered. 8. The learned APP for the State, in crux, has submitted that the Prosecution
 has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused and pleaded
 for the conviction of the accused. Whereas the learned Counsel for the accused, in crux, submitted
 that the Prosecution has failed to prove that the accused was driving the
 offending vehicle at the time of the said incident. It has also been submitted
 that the accused person could not have been identified as the person driving
 the offending vehicle at the time of the said incident. With these
 submissions, the Ld. Counsel submitted that the prosecution has failed to
 prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and pleaded for the acquittal of the
 accused. Digitally
 signed by
 RAJANI
 RAJANI RANGA

 RANGA Date: 9. Before proceeding further, let take a brief account of the testimony of the
 witnesses examined by the Prosecution. 10.The Complainant, Shri Gulshan @ Ugarsen, as PW1, supported the case of
 the Prosecution on the point that his father (deceased) who was on his foot
 and was ahead of him got hit by the offending vehicle which was being
 driven at a very high speed as well as in rash and negligent manner and that
 the offending vehicle also hit a cycle rikshaw and Maruti Car. The rider of
 the cycle rikshaw fell off and got injured. A lady also received injuries. The
 driver of the said offending vehicle fled away from the spot after the alleged
 incident. He became unconcious seeing that his father had met with the
 accident. Police arrived on the spot and recorded his statement (Ex.PW1/A).
 His father was taken to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. On
 25.02.2004, he went to the Police Station to know the progress of the case
 where 4-5 persons were sitting and he identified one among them as the
 driver of the offending vehicle who was then arrested. He has also correctly
 identified the accused person in the Court. He has also identified the
 offending vehicle, the said rickshaw and the said Maruti car in the Court
 through the photographs, Ex.P1 to Ex.P6. During his cross-examination by the learned Counsel for the
 accused person, he categorically stated that he was informed after one day of
 the alleged incident that the offending vehicle was being driven by the
 accused and that the accused himself told him the same in the Police Station.
 He could not say if the accused was driving the offending vehicle at the time
 of the alleged incident as the driver had ran away from the spot. He was Digitally signed RAJANI by RAJANI

FIR No. 172/2004 State Vs. Chhota Khan Page no. 5-13
 RANGA
 RANGA Date: 2024.07.11
 05:23:43 +0530
 urinating in the toilet at the time of the alleged incident. The toilet was about
 10 meters away from the place of the alleged incident. He immediately
 rushed to the place of the alleged incident seeing the same. 11.As testified by Smt. Kasturba Joshi as PW2, in the year 2004, at around
 06:00 PM, while she was keeping goods on her said cart, one vehicle/tempo
 truck hit her from back and besides other she also sustained injuries and
 was taken to the Hospital by the Police. She categorically deposed hat she
 did not see the person driving the offending vehicle. She denied recording
 her statement by the Police, Mark-A, during investigation. She denied the
 accused who was present in the Court as the same person who was drving
 the offending vehicle. 12.As testified by the PW5/Sh. Raj Kumar Lomesh on 23.02.2004, at around
 06:00 PM, he heard the loud noise and when he came out of his factory
 situated at WZ-299, Near Chaudhary Ramvik Yadav, MCD Primary School,
 Shakurpur, Delhi, he found the offending vehicle hitting his Maruti car
 bearing no. DL-8CC-1533 and besides that one cycle rickshaw and a cart.
 The driver of the said offending vehicle fled away from the spot. Someone
 called the PCR and he left the spot. The said Maruti car, the offending
 vehicle, cycle rickshaw and the cart were seized by the Police vide memos,
 Ex.PW5/A, Ex.PW5/B, Ex.PW5/C and Ex.PW5/D. 13.As broadly testified by PW6/HC Raj Kumar, PW8/Inspector Arjun Singh
 (IO) and PW11/HC Shri Bhagwan, on the receipt of information, they all
 reached at the place of the alleged incident after its occurrence and carried
 out the investigation. As deposed by the IO/PW8, no eye witness was met on
 the spot and as learnt the injured had already been taken to BJRM Hospital.
 The offending vehicle, said Maruti car, cycle rickshaw and the cart were
 Digitally
 signed by
 RAJANI
 RAJANI RANGA

FIR No. 172/2004 State Vs. Chhota Khan Page no. 6-13 RANGA Date: 14.Retired SI Satya Pal Singh as PW13 deposed to the effect that he was the
 Duty Officer on the date of alleged incident, that he prepared the DD
 No.12A, Mark A1 (colly) and registered the instant FIR on the receipt of
 Rukka, Ex.PW12/B, from Ct. Shri Bhagwanand and made endorsement on
 the Rukka, Ex.PW12/C. 15.As deposed by Shri Lalita Prashad Joshi as PW4, the said cart was released
 to him on superdiginama, Ex.PW4/A. Digitally
 signed by
 RAJANI
 RAJANI RANGA
 RANGA Date: 16.As testified by the PW7/(Retired) ASI Devender Kumar, he conducted the
 mechanical inspection of the offending vehicle and that of the said Maruti
 car at the request of SI Arjun Singh and prepared the reports, Ex.PW7/A and
 Ex.PW7/B. 17.Dr. B.N. Acharya as PW9 testified that he conducted the post-mortem on the
 body of the deceased/Tulsi Ram and prepared the post-mortem report,
 Ex.PW9/A, and as per the report, all the injuries were ante-mortem in nature
 caused due to vehicular accident and the cause of death was hemorrhagic
 shock consequent to pelbhe injury and injury to bladder. 18.Dr. Bhawana Saxena examined as PW13, identified the handwriting and
 signatures of Dr. Rajesh Yadav on the MLC of the injured/Ms. Kasturba
 Joshi, Ex.PW13/A, who was brought to the hospital with the alleged history
 of road traffic accident. The nature of injury was opined as simple. 19.Dr. Sanjay Kumar as PW3 identified the handwriting and signatures of Dr.
 Ajay Mehta on the MLC of the deceased, Ex.PW3/A, and on the MLC of the
 injured, Shri Chander Kishore, Ex.PW3/B. 20.As deposed by Shri Rajender Pal Singh as PW10, he identified the six
 photographs clicked by him as marked from Ex.P1 to Ex.P6. Examination of the material available on record including the evidence/Brief reasons for
 the decision 21.It is a settled principle of law that the Prosecution has to prove its case
 against the accused beyond reasonable doubt and for this the Prosecution has
 to stand on its own legs. 22.In order to bring home the guilt of the accused in respect of the offences
 Digitally
 signed by
 RAJANI
 RAJANI RANGA
 RANGA Date: 23.In the instant case, from the testimony of the witnesses examined by the
 Prosecution, the seizure memo vide which the offending vehicle was
 seized/Ex.PW5/B, the photographs of the vehicles involved, Ex.P1 to Ex.P6
 and the mechanical inspection reports, Ex.PW7/A and Ex.PW7/B, it is
 evident that the alleged incident took place with the offending vehicle. 24.Further, it is also evident from the testimony of the Complainant/PW1 and
 the Post-mortem Report of the deceased (Ex.PW9/A) from which it is
 revealed that all the injuries on the body of the deceased were ante-mortem
 in nature caused due to vehicular accident and the cause of death was
 hemorrhagic shock consequent to pelbhe injury and injury to bladder, that
 the deceased died in the said incident. 25.Furthermore, it is established from the testimony of the witnesses including
 that of Ms. Kasturba Joshi as PW2 examined by the Prosecution and
 MLC/Ex.PW13/A of Ms. Kasturba Joshi that she suffered simple injuries in
 the said incident. 26.Significantly, the Complainant/PW1 has supported the case of the
 Prosecution that the offending vehicle was being driven at a high speed as Digitally signed FIR No. 172/2004 State Vs. Chhota Khan Page no. 9-13 RAJANI by RAJANI
 RANGA

 RANGA 2024.07.11
 Date: 27.Now, it is to be examined if the accused was driving the offending vehicle at
 the time of the said incident. As per the case of the Prosecution and as comes
 out from the deposition of the witnesses examined by the Prosecution, the
 complainant and Ms. Kasturba Joshi examined as PW1 and PW2
 respectively are the eye witnesses to the incident involved. As specifically
 testified by the PW2, she did not see the accused driving the offending
 vehicle at the time of said incident. The driver of the offending vehicle was
 also not seen by the Complainant/PW1 driving the offending vehicle as the
 driver had fled away from the spot and he himself had became unconcious as
 testified by him. 28.Although the PW1/Complainant stated that it was after one day of the said
 incident that accused himself told him that he was driving the offending
 vehicle, there is nothing on record to support the same. None of the Police
 witnesses examined by the Prosecution testified that the accused was
 identified by the complainant/PW1 in the Police Station and that it was at the
 instance of the Complainant, that the accused person was arrested. 29.Further, as stated by the Complainant/PW1, just after one day of the said
 incident he was told by the accused that the accused was driving the
 offending vehicle. Whereas as per the case of the Prosecution it was on 25/
 02/2004 that the owner of the offending vehicle/Shri Naushad Ali who in his
 reply to the notice issued to him in term of Section 133 of The Motor
 Vehicle Act disclosed that the accused was driving the offending vehicle at
 the time of the said incident. Significantly, if it was only on 25/02/2004 that
 it came to light that the accused Chhota Khan was driving the offending
 vehicle at the time of the said incident through the reply of the owner of the
 offending vehicle, how the complainant came into contact with the accused
 just after a day of the alleged incident has not been explained by the
 Complainant. 30.Furthermore, Shri Naushad Ali, who as per the case of the Prosecution is the
 registered owner did not turn up in the Court for the purpose of deposition in
 the Court inspite of service of notice upon him on various occasions. Thus,
 reply to the said notice, Ex.PW8/C, remained un proved by the Prosecution. 31.The Prosecution was required to establish the identity of the accused person
 as the perpetrator of the crime i.e. as the driver of the offending vehicle at
 the time of the said incident that too beyond reasonable doubt. However,
 there is no admissible evidence to demonstrate that the accused person was
 driving the offending vehicle at the time of the said incident. The evidence
 came on record is not sufficient to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the
 accused person was driving the offending vehicle at the time of the said
 incident. The Prosecution has failed to discharge its obligation to prove
 beyond reasonable doubt that the offending vehicle was being driven by the
 accused person at the time of the said incident. 32.It is cardinal principle of law that the accused is presumed to be innocent till
 he is proved guilty, beyond any reasonable doubt. The burden of proving the
 guilt of the accused, exclusively lies on the Prosecution and the case of the
 prosecution should stand on its own legs. The benefit of doubt, if any, must
 go in favour of the accused. 33. In view of the above examination, the Court reached at the conclusion that

 the Prosecution has failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused
 was driving the offending vehicle at the time of the said incident resulting
 into the death of the deceased and injury to both the injured. The Prosecution
 has failed to attain the standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt and thus
 failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. 34.In the case of Sadhu Singh Vs. State of Punjab 1997 (3) Crime 55 the
 Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court emphasized the following: Conclusion 35.In view of the above observation that the Prosecution has failed to prove its
 case beyond reasonable doubt, the accused is entitled to the benefit of doubt. Digitally
 signed by
 RAJANI
 RAJANI RANGA
FIR No. 172/2004 State Vs. Chhota Khan Page no. 12-13 RANGA Date: