Sequel to orders dated 6/7.3.2023, whereby above named bail

 petitioners, apprehending their arrest, were enlarged on bail in Case FIR

 No. 9/23, dated 19.2.2023, registered at Women Police Station Solan

 District Solan, under Sections 498A , 376-D , 506 and 34 of IPC,

 respondent-state has filed the status report, SI Swaroop Kumar, PS Sadar

 Shimla, H.P., has also come present with the records. Records perused and

 returned. 2. Close scrutiny of record/status report made available to this

 Court reveals that on 19.2.2023, complainant (name withheld) lodged a

 complaint at Women Police Station, Solan, alleging therein that she has

 been sexually assaulted against her wishes by her husband Ajaybir Singh,

 father in law Jasveer Singh Sodi and domestic help Sahib Singh (bail

 petitioners). She alleged that she is legally wedded wife of bail petitioner

 namely Ajaybir Singh and she alongwith her husband had purchased

 property jointly at Deoghat after having obtained loan from Union Bank of

 India Branch Solan in the years 2013 and 2016. She alleged that loan has

 been repaid and she alongwith her husband and children has been residing

 in the said house. She alleged that in the month of January, 2022, she ::: Downloaded on - 16/03/2023 20:32:42 :::CIS 3 alongwith her daughter, visited the house of her son namely Arjunbir Singh

 . in Sector-10-D Chandigarh, but when she came back to Deoghat, she

 found that her valuable belongings i.e. gold, diamond jewellery, cash,

 valuable clothes and all other daily routine articles were stolen. She

 further alleged that they were not allowed to enter the house by her

 husband Ajaybir Singh Sodi, who disclosed her that he has already

 obtained divorce from her, from the competent court of law at Firozepur. She alleged that after the aforesaid incident, she again visited the house at

 Deoghat on 17.8.2022, with the intervention of her relatives and started

 living on the top floor of the house. She alleged that her husband, father in

 law and domestic help i.e. present bail petitioners, reside in the same house

 at Deoghat. She alleged that on 17.8.2022, all the accused under the

 influence of liquor armed with deadly weapons entered her portion and

 started extending threats. She alleged that accused Jasbir Singh, father in

 law of the complainant not only behaved indecently, but touched her

 private parts. She also alleged that her husband Ajaybir Singh instigated

 his domestic help to remove her cloths and thereafter all the three bail

 petitioners not only behaved indecently, but tired to commit unnatural sex. She also alleged that her husband Ajaybir Singh extended threats to her

 and her daughter and asked to handover relinquishment deed of the house ::: Downloaded on - 16/03/2023 20:32:42 :::CIS 4 at Deoghat (Solan) as well as house of 140 P situate in the street of Sethi

 . Ice Factory Ferozepur Cantt., but when she refused, all the accused started

 to rape her in the presence of her daughter. She alleged that her daughter

 though raised hue and cry, but none came to her rescue. She alleged that

 after attempting rape/unnatural sex, all the accused ran away from her

 portion extending threats that in case she discloses the incident to anyone,

 they would make the video of the incident viral. She alleged that on

 account of aforesaid incident, she went into depression and attempted to

 commit suicide but god saved her. She also alleged that her husband is

 involved in many illegal activities and oftenly, brings call girls to his house. In the aforesaid background, FIR as detailed herein above, came to be

 lodged against the petitioners, Appending their arrest, all the petitioners

 approached this Court in the instant proceedings and vide orders dated

 6/7.3.2023, they were ordered to enlarged on interim bail with direction to

 make themselves available for investigation before the investigating

 agency. 3. Mr. Vishal Panwar, learned Additional Advocate General, on

 the instructions of Investigating Officer present in the Court, fairly states

 that pursuant to order dated 6/7.3.2023, all the petitioners joined the

 investigation and rendered full cooperation. He states that though nothing ::: Downloaded on - 16/03/2023 20:32:42 :::CIS 5 remains to be recovered from the bail petitioners, but keeping in view the

 . gravity of offence alleged to have been committed by them, they do not

 deserve any leniency and as such, prayer made on their behalf for grant of

 bail deserves outright rejection. While making this court peruse statement

 of victim-prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 Cr.PC, learned Additional

 Advocate General states that petitioners have been rightly booked under Section 376 (D) and as such, there is no force in the submission of the

 petitioners that they have been falsely implicated. Learned Additional

 Advocate General states that it may not be in the interest of justice to

 enlarge the bail petitioners on bail, who in the event of being enlarged on

 bail may not only flee from justice, but may again cause harm to the victim- prosecutrix, who resides on the top floor of the building where accused are

 living. 4. Mr. Rajiv Chauhan, learned counsel appearing for the

 complainant submits that victim-prosecutrix is being harassed

 continuously for years together on account of her bringing less dowry and

 not signing the relinquishment deed. He submits that at the first instance,

 bail petitioner namely Ajaybir Singh, obtained decree of divorce by mutual

 consent fraudulently and thereafter again started living with victim- prosecutrix, but when she refused to succumb to his demands, he in ::: Downloaded on - 16/03/2023 20:32:42 :::CIS 6 connivance with his father and domestic help not only gave beatings to the

 . victim-prosecutrix, but also raped her against her wishes. He states that in

 the event of petitioners being enlarged on bail, there would be great threat

 to life of the victim-prosecutrix and as such, their prayer for grant of bail

 may be rejected outrightly. 5. Having heard learned counsel for the parities and perused

 material available on record, this Court finds that as per statement of

 victim-prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 Cr.PC, she was subjected to

 forcible rape and unnatural sex on 17.8.2022, but FIR detailed herein

 above was lodged on 19.2.2023. There is no explanation, if any, on record

 qua the delay of approximately six months in lodging the FIR. Though it

 has been claimed by the victim-prosecutrix that after the alleged incident,

 she remained under depression and tried to commit suicide, but once

 alleged rape and unnatural sex was committed upon her in the presence of

 her daughter, who is major, it is not understood that what prevented the

 daughter of the victim-prosecutrix to lodge complaint at Police Station at

 the first instance. True it is that there is no reason for this Court to

 disbelieve the version putforth by the victim-prosecutrix that after the

 alleged incident, she was in depression, but definitely, her daughter, who

 is major, could always report the matter to the police or to other relatives. In the case at hand, matter never came to be reported to the relatives or to

 . the police. Suddenly, after six months of the alleged incident, FIR detailed

 herein above, containing allegations, as have been taken note herein above,

 came to be lodged against the petitioners. Status report placed on record

 clearly reveals that there is property dispute inter-se victim-prosecutrix and

 the bail petitioners and they have filed various cases against each others in

 the different courts of law. Otherwise also, factum with regard to property

 dispute stands duly admitted by the victim-prosecutrix in her statement

 recorded under Section 164 Cr.PC, wherein she stated that on the date of

 the alleged incident, she was being compelled by the bail petitioners to sign

 on the relinquishment deed. Documents placed on record by the bail

 petitioners suggest that marriage inter-se bail petitioner Ajaybir Singh and

 victim-prosecutrix was dissolved by way of mutual consent on 24.11.1997

 (Annexure P1). After 27 years of passing of order dated 24.11.1997,

 suddenly, victim-prosecutrix filed an application for setting aside judgment

 and decree dated 24.11.1997, passed by the learned District Judge

 Firozepur, thereby accepting joint prayer made by the petitioner Ajaybir

 Singh and victim-prosecutrix under Section 13 (B) of the Hindu Marriage

 Act for dissolution of marriage. Interestingly, if the contents of the

 aforesaid application are read in its entirety, it completely falsifies the stand ::: Downloaded on - 16/03/2023 20:32:42 :::CIS 8 taken by the victim-prosecutrix while making statements under Sections

 . 164 and 154 Cr.PC . Though victim-prosecutrix in her statements recorded

 under Sections 164 and 154 Cr.PC claimed that in the month of June,

 2022, her valuable belongings were stolen from her house at Deoghat and

 she was not allowed to enter the house of the bail petitioners, but in her

 petition filed before the learned District Judge, Ferozepur for setting aside

 order dated 24.11.1997, she claimed that since the day of the marriage, she

 as well as her husband have been residing together in one room and have

 been treating each other as husband and wife. She has also stated in the

 application that she and her husband have been cohabiting with each other

 till date and they never resided separately. In para-7 of the aforesaid

 application, she has stated that she alongwith her husband and daughter

 went to Dubai in the month of February, 2021 and resided in a hotel called

 Royal Escort. If the contents of this application are read in its entirety, an

 attempt has been made by the victim-prosecutrix to carve out a case before

 the learned District Judge Firozepur that the relation inter-se her and her

 husband are very cordial and they have been leading a happy life as

 husband and wife. Aforesaid application was filed on 24.11.2022, as is

 evident from copy of order passed by the Principal Judge, Family Court,

 Ferozepur, Punjab. In an application for setting aside decree of divorce by ::: Downloaded on - 16/03/2023 20:32:42 :::CIS 9 way of mutual consent, on one hand, victim-prosecutrix claimed that she is

 . having very good and cordial relations with her husband, but on the other

 hand, while making statements under Sections 164 and 154 Cr.PC, she

 alleged that in the month of August, 2022, she was not only given beatings,

 but was raped in the presence of her daughter by the petitioners. Once

 relationship inter-se bail petitioner Ajaybir Singh and victim-prosecutrix

 was cordial on 24.11.2022 and till then, they had been living as husband

 and wife, it becomes difficult for this court to accept the allegation leveled

 by the victim-prosecutrix qua the incident allegedly happened in August,

 2022. 6. Though question of delay, if any, in filing application for setting

 aside decree of divorce passed in the year, 1997 is to be decided by the

 court at Ferozepur, but certainly that fact creates serious doubt on the

 correctness and genuineness of the story putforth by the victim-prosecutrix

 while lodging complaint against the bail petitioners. As per report, victim- prosecutrix and bail petitioners had been fighting with each other over a

 property left by the mother in law of the victim-prosecutrix. As per record,

 mother in law of the victim-prosecutrix has bequeathed her property in the

 name of her grandson, who at present resides in abroad. As per own

 statement of victim-prosecutrix, there was dispute inter-se her and other ::: Downloaded on - 16/03/2023 20:32:42 :::CIS 10 family members qua the ownership and possession of house at Deoghat

 . and subsequently, on the intervention of the relatives, she was given one

 portion of the house at Deoghat, where the alleged incident happened. Most importantly, after having lodged report, victim-prosecutrix refused to

 undergo medical test, which further creates doubt about the correctness of

 the allegations leveled by the victim-prosecutrix. Photos posted on

 facebook account of victim-prosecutrix clearly reveals that on the date of

 alleged incident she was enjoying with her friends and family members. 7.

 Though aforesaid aspects of the matter are to be considered

 and decided by the court below on the basis of totality of evidence collected

 on record by the Investigating Agency, but having noticed aforesaid glaring

 aspects of the matter coupled with the fact that nothing remains to be

 recovered from the bail petitioners, there appears to be no justification to

 send the bail petitioner in judicial custody during trial. Hon'ble Apex Court

 as well as this Court in catena of cases have repeatedly held that one is

 deemed to be innocent till the time, guilt of his/her is not proved in

 accordance with law. In the case at hand, guilt if any of the bail petitioners

 is yet to be established on record by the Investigating Agency by leading

 cogent and convincing evidence and as such, their freedom cannot be

 curtailed for an indefinite period during trial. Apprehension expressed by ::: Downloaded on - 16/03/2023 20:32:42 :::CIS 11 the learned Additional Advocate General that in the event of petitioners

 . being enlarged on bail, they may flee from justice, can be best met by

 putting the bail petitioners to stringent conditions as has been fairly stated

 by the learned counsel for the petitioner. 8. Needless to say, object of the bail is to secure the attendance of

 the accused in the trial and the proper test to be applied in the solution of

 the question whether bail should be granted or refused is whether it is

 probable that the party will appear to take his trial. Otherwise, bail is not

 to be withheld as a punishment. Otherwise also, normal rule is of bail and

 not jail. Court has to keep in mind nature of accusations, nature of

 evidence in support thereof, severity of the punishment which conviction

 will entail, character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to

 the accused involved in that crime. See: Sanjay Chandra versus Central

 Bureau of Investigation (2012)1 Supreme Court Cases 49 and Prasanta

 Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee and Another (2010) 14 SCC 496. 9. Recently, the Hon'ble Apex Court in Criminal Appeal No.

 227/2018, Dataram Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. , decided on

 6.2.2018, has categorically held that a fundamental postulate of criminal

 jurisprudence is the presumption of innocence, meaning thereby that a

 person is believed to be innocent until found guilty. Hon'ble Apex Court ::: Downloaded on - 16/03/2023 20:32:42 :::CIS 12 further held that while considering prayer for grant of bail, it is important

 . to ascertain whether the accused was participating in the investigations to

 the satisfaction of the investigating officer and was not absconding or not

 appearing when required by the investigating officer. Hon'ble Apex Court

 further held that if an accused is not hiding from the investigating officer or

 is hiding due to some genuine and expressed fear of being victimized, it

 would be a factor that a judge would need to consider in an appropriate

 case. 10.

 Consequently, in view of the above, orders dated 6/7.3.2023,

 passed by this Court, are made absolute, subject to the following

 conditions: 11. It is clarified that if the petitioners misuse their liberty or

 violate any of the conditions imposed upon them, the investigating agency

 shall be free to move this Court for cancellation of the bail. 12. Any observations made hereinabove shall not be construed to

 . be a reflection on the merits of the main case and shall remain confined to

 the disposal of these applications alone. The bail petitions stand disposed

 of accordingly. 13. The petitioners are permitted to produce copy of order

 downloaded from the High Court Website and the trial court shall not insist

 for certified copy of the order, however, it may verify the order from the

 High Court website or otherwise.