Heard counsel for the parties. The applicants namely, Arun Kumar Sikarwar and Ajit
Kashyap have been arrested on 18.8.2014 and 31.1.2015
respectively in connection with Crime No.2/2014 registered
with Police Station S.T.F., Bhopal - commonly known as
VYAPAM Examination Scam cases - for the offences
punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 & 120-B of IPC and Section 3 (Gha) 1, 2/4 of M.P. Recognized
Examination Act, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant Arun Singh Sikarwar
is that of a "middleman" and Ajit Kashyap is that of a
"impersonator" to facilitate commission of unfair means
during the examination conducted by VYAPAM in 2012. The
applicants was allegedly held responsible for helping the
candidates to commit unfair means during the examination
conducted by VYAPAM. Those candidates during the
investigation have been arrested and later on released on bail.
The persons linked to the applicants in commission of the ---2--- crime are already released on bail. Further, it is fairly accepted by the learned counsel for
the State, on instructions that investigation qua the applicants
is complete in all respects and final charge sheet has been filed
on 16.4.2015. In other words, the presence of applicants is no
more required nor the custodial interrogation of the applicants
is necessary any further. Counsel for the State submits that since the applicants
are involved in multiple instances referred to in the charge
sheet against them, it is, but, appropriate that the bail bond
amount should be not less then Rs.5,00,000/- qua these
applicants. Considering the fact that the trial would commence very
shortly, but as the investigation is complete and that the
presence of the applicants is no more required by the
Investigating Agency coupled with the undertaking given by
the applicants through counsel that they will punctually appear
before the trial Court to ensure early disposal of the criminal
trial pending against them, in the interest of justice, taking
overall view of the matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail
to the applicants but on strict conditions as the arrest of the
applicant - Ajit Kashyap was possible only after the coercive
action was resorted to by announcing the award, in the first
place, and resorting to the proceedings under Section 82 of the
Code. ---3--- (1) The applicants shall furnish personal bond
 in the sum of Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five
 Lacs) with two solvent local sureties in the
 like amount each to the satisfaction of the
 Trial Court for their regular appearance
 during the trial in connection with Crime
 No.2/2014 in Police Station S.T.F. Bhopal;
(2) The applicants shall also comply with the
 conditions enumerated under Section 437
 (3) of Cr.P.C. meticulously; (3) Additionally, the applicant - Ajit Kashyap
 will report to the nearest Police Station at
 Anchal Halsi, District - Lakhi Saray
 (Bhihar) and applicant - Arun Singh
 Sikerwar will report to the Police Station
 City Kotwali Murena, District - Murena
 (M.P.) once a week on every Sunday
 between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon unless
 required to attend the office of the
 Investigating Officer at Bhopal on that day;
 and
(4) The applicants will deposit their passport, if
 available, with the Investigating Agency,
 else file affidavit in this Court declaring that
 the applicants do not have any passport of
 any country. This compliance will be ---4--- condition precedent for release on bail.
 The bail applications stand disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.