On the complaint lodged by the General Manager, Indian Ordnance Factory, 
Tiruchirapalli, the Inspector of Police, K.K.Nagar P.S.Crime, Trichy,
registered a case in Crime No.277 of 2016, on 10.09.2016, for the offences
under Sections 419 , 420 , 465 , 468 , 471 and 109 I.P.C., against Rupesh Shibu
Dey and Bharath Singh and took up the investigation of the case. 2. It is the case of the de facto complainant that recruitment for the posts
of Durwan, Lower Division Clerk (L.D.C.), Multi-Tasking Staff (M.T.S.) and
Laborer etc., was announced by the Indian Ordnance Factory and as a part of
the recruitment process, written test was conducted on 20.12.2015. It came
to the notice of the higher-ups of the Indian Ordnance Factory that there
were irregularities in the recruitment process inasmuch as impersonation had
taken place in the written examination hall at Jamal Mohamed College, Trichy,
which was one of the examination centres. The Indian Ordnance Factory
Officials scrutinized the application of eleven candidates and on 20.06.2016,
sent their fingerprints to Tamil Nadu Fingerprint Bureau, Chennai, for
verification and the Tamil Nadu Fingerprint Bureau, Chennai, gave a report,
dated 26.07.2016, stating that out of eleven cases sent for verification, in
two cases, fingerprints did not tally. In other words, the two persons, who
wrote the examination were not the two persons, who were selected. The two
selected persons were Rupesh Shibu Dey (A1) and Bharath Singh (A2). 
Therefore, the Appointing Authority took departmental action and terminated
them from service. Since the offence has taken place in Jamal Mohamed 
College, Trichy, the complaint was lodged to the Inspector of Police,
K.K.Nagar P.S.Crime, Trichy, for investigation. During the course of
investigation, the Inspector of Police, K.K.Nagar P.S.Crime, Trichy, arrested
the accused 1 and 2 and now, they are on bail. Thereafter, there had not
been any progress in the investigation by the State Police and therefore, the
General Manager, Indian Ordnance Factory, Tiruchirappalli, has filed the
present application seeking for transfer of the investigation in Crime No.277
of 2016, from the file of the State Police to the file of the Central Bureau
of Investigation, Anti-Corruption Branch. 3. On the directions of this Court, today (i.e., 02.02.2018) Mr.S.Syed
Bazlullah, Superintendent of Police, C.B.I.(A.C.B.), Chennai,
Mr.K.S.Nageswaran, Inspector of Police, C.B.I.(A.C.B.), Chennai and
Mr.S.Raja, K.K.Nagar P.S.Crime, Trichy, are present before this Court. 4. On instructions, the learned Senior Public Prosecutor for C.B.I.Cases
submitted that written examination was conducted for selection to the posts
of Durwan, Lower Division Clerk (L.D.C.), Multi-Tasking Staff (M.T.S.) and
Labourer at Jamal Mohamed College, on 20.12.2015 and in the written
examination relating to the posts of Multi-Tasking Staff and Labourer,
similar complaints arose and the Central Bureau of Investigation has
registered two cases in R.C.Nos. 27(A) and 31 of 2017 respectively and the
investigation is in progress. As regards, the present case is concerned, it
relates to the selection to the post of Durwan. 5. The learned counsel appearing for the accused submitted that this is not a
fit case to transfer the investigation from the file of the State Police to
the file of the Central Bureau of Investigation especially in the light of
the fact that the video recordings relating to the case are not genuine and
they were not submitted by the de facto complainant to the State Police at
the time of lodging the complaint. 6. It is indeed a surprise for this Court as to how the accused is able to
gather such information when the investigation is still in a very nascent
stage. In State of W.B. vs. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights,
reported in (2010) 3 SCC 571, the Honourable Supreme Court has laid down the 
parameters for ordering C.B.I.Investigation. In this case, the recruitment
process relates to the Ordnance Factory that is owned by the Union of India.
That apart, the Central Bureau of Investigation is already investigating two
cases relating to impersonation in the examination conducted for the posts of
Multi-Tasking Staff and Labourer. Thus, it prima facie appears that a scam
has occurred, which requires a thorough probe. 7. On perusal of the case diary maintained by the State Police, it is seen
that the Police are now looking out for six other persons, who are said to be
hailing from North Indian States. Thus, this case appears to have All India
ramification and therefore, interest of justice would be served, if the
Central Bureau of Investigation takes up the case for a thorough probe to
bring the guilty to justice. 8. In the result,
i. The criminal original petition is allowed and the case in Crime No.277
of 2016, pending on the file of the Inspector of Police, K.K.Nagar P.S.Crime,
Trichy, is ordered to be transferred to the file of the Superintendent of
Police, Central Bureau of Investigation, Anti-Corruption Branch, Madurai.
ii. The Inspector of Police, K.K.Nagar P.S.Crime, Trichy, is directed to
obtain necessary orders from the Commissioner of Police, Trichy, within a
period of one week from the date of receipt of a copy of this order and hand
over the case diary and all the relevant records to the Superintendent of
Police, Central Bureau of Investigation, Anti-Corruption Branch, Madurai,
within a period of one week thereafter. iii. It is seen that the first information report, remand applications and
other records are now on the file of the learned Judicial Magistrate No.II,
Trichy. In view of the order of transfer, the learned Judicial Magistrate
No.II, Trichy, is directed to transmit all the records relating to Crime
No.277 of 2016 of K.K.Nagar P.S.Crime to the file of the learned Special
Judge for C.B.I.Cases, Madurai, within a period of three weeks from the date
of receipt of a copy of this order. Note to Office :