% 10.11.2021 1. The above-noted bail applications have been filed on behalf of the
applicants under Section 438 Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail in FIR No.
 355/2021 registered under Sections 384 / 420 / 34 IPC at Police Station
Vikaspuri, Delhi. 2. Learned counsel for the applicants submits that in the present FIR, the
allegations levelled relate only to the payment of Rs.2.5 lacs by the
complainant under threat. He further submits that the applicants are not
involved in the present case of extortion and cheating. It is also submitted
that the applicant/Alee Mohammad belongs to a poor stratum of the society
and is a truck driver. Learned counsel lastly submitted that the applicants are
ready and willing to join the investigation. 3. Mr. Hirein Sharma, learned APP for the State, duly assisted by
learned counsel for the complainant, on the other hand, has vehemently
opposed the bail applications. He submits that the present case is a case of
honey trapping. He further submits that the complainant in the present case
received a Facebook friend request from the account of one Payal Sharma,
wherefore he was induced to have illicit chats with the girl. Subsequently,
the complainant was also lured into participating in video calls with the said
girl. On one occasion, the abovementioned girl got herself naked and the
entire video call with the complainant was recorded, on the basis of which
he was blackmailed and threatened that the said video would be made viral
on porn websites and on social media platforms. 4. Learned APP further submits that the objectionable video of the
complainant was also circulated to some of his Facebook friends. The
accused persons further demanded money, in pursuance of which a sum of
Rs.2.5 lacs was paid by the complainant by transferring the same in seven
different Paytm accounts. It is submitted that one of these accounts belongs
to Babu Lal and that the said Paytm accounts were being used on the mobile
 number of applicant/Alee Mohammad. 5. Learned APP, on instructions, further submits that on verification of
the aforesaid Paytm accounts, it has been found that though the initial
amount was received in the Paytm account of Babu Lal, the said amount was
later deposited in the accounts of the present applicants and others. It is also
submitted that on analysing the aforesaid accounts, it has been found that a
sum of Rs.1.5 crore (approx.) was deposited within one month and the
investigation qua the same is still pending. 6. Keeping in view the aforesaid, I am not inclined to grant the benefit of
anticipatory bail to the present applicants. Accordingly, both the bail
applications are dismissed. MANOJ KUMAR OHRI, J
NOVEMBER 10, 2021
ga
 Click here to check corrigendum, if any