FACTUAL MATRIX 1. Briefly stated, the case of the prosecution against the accused persons is
 that one car bearing no. GJ 6MC 8334 make Tavera belonging to the
 complainant Deepak Agarwal was stolen from the jurisdiction of PS Madhu
 Vihar. As such, it is alleged that the accused committed the offence under sections 379 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter, " IPC ") for which
 FIR No. 135/2009 was registered at Police Station Madhu Vihar, Delhi. INVESTIGATION AND APPEARANCE OF ACCUSED 2. After registration of FIR, the investigating officer (hereinafter 'IO')
 conducted investigation and during investigation on 17.12.2009 near East
 Wall of DAV School, Rajender Nagar, Village Pasonda, Ghaziabad, UP,
 accused Chand @ Aftab alongwith his associates namely Sanjay @ Rahul
 (absconder) and Sagir @ Dharampal (already acquitted) were found in joint
 possession of one car bearing no. GJ 6MC 8334 make Tavera belonging to
 the complainant Deepak Agarwal. Hence, after culmination of the
 investigation, chargesheet against the accused persons namely Sanjay,
 Aftab and Sagir for the alleged commission of offences u/s 379 / 411 / 34 IPC
 was filed. Ld. Predecessor of this Court took cognizance of the offences
 vide order dated 07.01.2010. After taking cognizance of the offences,
 accused persons appeared/ were produced before the Court and copy of
 documents relied upon in the charge sheet were supplied to the accused
 persons in terms of section 207 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
 (hereinafter, " CrPC "). 3. Since prima facie offences u/s 411 / 34 IPC against the accused persons were
 made out, Ld. Predecessor of this Court vide order dated 20.08.2010 framed
 charge against accused Sanjay, Chand @ Aftab and Sagir for the offence
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 FIR No.135/2009 State vs. Chand @ Aftab & Anr. Page no. 2 of 13Kumar Kumar Jain
 Date: 4. It is pertinent to note that during the pendency of the matter, accused
 persons Sanjay @ Rahul and Chand @ Aftab stopped appearing before the
 Court and they were declared as absconders. Hence, earlier the case
 proceeded only qua accused Sagir @ Dharampal who was acquitted by Ld.
 Predecessor of this Court vide order dated 27.02.2016. Thereafter,
 absconder accused Chand @ Aftab was apprehended and produced before
 the Court. Accordingly, trial proceeded against the accused Chand @
 Aftab. During the trial, prosecution led the following oral and documentary
 evidence against the accused Chand @ Aftab to prove its case beyond
 reasonable doubt: - 5.1. On his cross-examination by Ld. Counsel for accused, witness deposed that
 DO handed over him original tehrir and copy of FIR at about 07:15pm. The
 distance between spot and PS is about 1.5-2 kilometers. He reached at the
 spot at about 07:25pm. They finally left the spot at about 08:00pm. He
 stated that he did not sign the site plan. He denied the suggestions that he
 Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 FIR No.135/2009 State vs. Chand @ Aftab & Anr. Page no. 4 of 13 Digitally signed by Udbhav Kumar Jain Date: 2025.07.23 16:40:35 +0530 never went to the spot and never joined the investigation of this case; that
 all paperwork done by IO while sitting in PS; that he was deposing falsely
 being a police witness and at the instance of IO. 6. SI Kulwant Singh (PW-2) in his examination-in-chief deposed that on
 23.12.2009, he was posted at PS Madhu Vihar as HC. On that day, he had
 joined the investigation with IO HC Vijay Kumar in the present case. He came
 to the Court KKD and arrested the accused Sagir @ Dharam Pal, Aftab @
 Chand and Sanjay @ Rahul with the permission of the Court as they were
 produced before the Court. They were arrested vide arrest memo of accused
 Sagir @ Dharam Pal Ex. PW-2/A, accused Aftab @ Chand Ex. PW-2/B and
 accused Sanjay @ Rahul Ex. PW-2/C signed by SI Kulwant Singh at point A.
 They were interrogated and made disclosure statement vide disclosure
 statement of accused Sagir @ Dharam Pal Ex. PW-2/D, accused Aftab @
 Chand Ex. PW-2/E and accused Sanjay @ Rahul Ex. PW-2/F signed by him
 at point A. His statement was recorded in this regard. Thereafter, he returned
 to the PS. The accused Aftab @ Chand was present in the Court and correctly
 identified by the witness. 6.1. On his cross-examination by Ld. Counsel for accused, witness deposed that
 he did not remember the time when he reached the Court and arrested the
 accused persons. He did not know whether IO asked any of the persons who
 were present in the court premises at that time to join the proceeding. It took
 about 1 hour to draw the proceeding at the time of arrest of the accused
 persons. He had gone through the contents of the document on which he had
 signed. IO did not inform any of the relatives of accused Aftab @ Chand
 regarding his arrest in his presence. He denied the suggestions that accused
 Aftab @ Chand has not made any disclosure statement about his involvement
 in the present case or that IO HC Vijay Kumar had taken his signature on blank
 paper and some printed paper and later on converted the same into arrest
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 FIR No.135/2009 Kumar Date: 7. SI Vinod Kumar (PW-3) in his examination-in-chief deposed that on
 15.12.2009, he was posted at Special Staff, South Distt. Delhi. On that day, he
 along with ASI Gyanendra, HC Shiv Kumar, HC Manoj, Ct. Shailander and
 accused Sagir @ Dharam Pal went to Rajender Nagar, Sahibabad, near DAV
 School to recover the car as disclosed by accused Sagir @ Dharam Pal already
 arrested in Case FIR 358/2009 PS Saket. 5 Cars were recovered at the instance
 of the accused including the car in the present case i.e. Tavera bearing
 registration no. GJ6CM8334. The said car was seized vide seizure memo and
 pointing out memo Ex. PW-3/A bearing his signature at point A. The accused
 Sagir @ Dharam Pal was already arrested along with accused Aftab @ Chand
 and accused Sanjay @ Rahul Ex. PW-3/C and Ex. PW-3/D bearing his
 signature at point A and they made disclosure statement vide their disclosure
 statement Ex. PW-3/E, Ex. PW-3/F and Ex. PW-3/G bearing his signature at
 point A. Thereafter, they returned to the PS Saket, and the car was deposited
 in the malkhana. When two photographs of car bearing no. GJ6CM8334 Ex.
 P1 (colly) were shown to the witness, he correctly identified the same. The
 accused Aftab @ Chand who was present in the Court was correctly identified
 by the witness. 7.1. On his cross-examination by Ld. Counsel for accused, witness deposed that
 the accused persons were already arrested before 15.12.2009 and their arrest
 memo and disclosure statement were already prepared in FIR No. 358/2009
 PS Saket. He did not know whether any departure was made while taking the
 accused Sagir @ Dharam Pal for recovery. He did not remember when they
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 FIR No.135/2009 Kumar Date: 8. Retd. SI Vijay Kumar (PW-4) in his examination-in-chief deposed that on
 14.12.2009, he was posted at PS Madhu Vihar as Head Constable and on that
 day the complainant Deepak Aggarwal came to the PS and told regarding his
 stolen car make Tavera bearing no. GJ6CM8334. He recorded the statement
 of Deepak Aggarwal in this regard as Ex. PW4/A bearing his name at point A.
 Thereafter, he prepared tehrir as Ex. PW4/B bearing his name at point A.
 Thereafter he handed over the tehrir to DO for registration of FIR. After
 registration of FIR, he along with complainant and Ct. Vijender went to the
 spot. On reaching at the spot, he prepared site plan at the instance of the
 complainant as Ex. PW4/C bearing his name at point A. Thereafter, he
 searched for the car near the spot but could not find the car on that day. He
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 FIR No.135/2009 Kumar Date: Thereafter, on 22.12.2009 he filed an application in the Court of Ld. MM Sh.
 V.K. Gautam, Karkardooma Courts for the production warrant of the accused
 persons. Thereafter, accused persons appeared before the Court on
 23.12.2009. On that day he went to Karkardooma Court Complex along with
 H.C Kulwant Singh; after permission of the Court, he interrogated the accused
 Sagir, Aftab and Sanjay. Therefore, he formally arrested all the accused vide
 arrest memos already exhibited as Ex.PW2/A, Ex.PW2/B and Ex.PW2/C all
 bearing his signatures at point B respectively. He also recorded disclosure
 statements of accused persons vide memo's which are already exhibited as
 Ex.PW2/D, PW2/E and PW2/F all bearing his name at point B respectively.
 Thereafter, he requested the Court to send the accused person to JC;
 application in this regard were exhibited as Ex.PW4/E bearing his name at
 point A. During investigation he recorded statements of witnesses under Section 161 CrPC. After completion of investigation, Rted. SI Vijay Kumar
 S/o Ballam Singh R/o VPO Siroli, District Ghaziabad, U.P. filed the
 chargesheet before the Court. Accused Aftab @Chand was present in the Court
 and was correctly identified by the witness. (He can identify the car if shown
 to him. At this stage, are shown to the witness. Witness correctly identified the
 case property from 2 photographs of the car bearing no GJ6CM8334 Ex.
 P1(Colly). 8.1.On his cross-examination by Ld. Counsel for accused, witness deposed that
 he did not inquire from the IO of FIR no. 358/2009 PS Saket regarding the
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 FIR No.135/2009 State vs. Chand @ Aftab & Anr.Kumar Date: Page no. 8 of 13
 Jain 2025.07.23
 16:40:57
 +0530
 fact that on whose instance case property i.e., car was recovered. The car
 which he has taken in possession from the MHCM of PS Saket bears the same
 number plate bearing no GJ6CM8334. He informed one Jamal, who was a
 relative of accused Aftab @Chand, regarding the arrest of accused Aftab
 @Chand. He denied that PW2/D, PW2/E, PW2/F and Ex. PW4/E were not
 prepared by him or that they were prepared by some persons; that is why these
 documents were not bearing his signatures. Witness denied the suggestions
 that accused Chand @Aftab has not made any disclosure statements to him or
 that he had taken his signature on blank papers and later manipulated the
 contents as per his wish, as per requirement of the case; that PWs had not made
 any statement to him or that he recorded PWs statements under Section 161 CrPC in the present case as per his wish or that he was deposing falsely. 9. During course of trial, complainant Deepak Aggarwal had expired and
 accordingly he was dropped from the list of witnesses vide order dated
 21.12.2024. As the witnesses PW-1 to PW-4 were already examined qua
 the present accused Chand @ Aftab and formal documents u/s 294 CrPC
 were admitted, hence, this Court by relying upon the order of the Hon'ble
 Apex Court of India in the matter titled In Re: Speedy Trial of Under Trial
 Prisoners (dated 22.10.2018), closed prosecution evidence on 16.07.2025. STATEMENT AND DEFENCE OF ACCUSED 10. Whatever incriminating materials and evidence came on record and brought
 forth by the prosecution against the accused were put to him and statement
 of accused u/s 313 CrPC was recorded today i.e., 23.07.2025. ARGUMENTS 11. I have heard the Ld. APP for the State and Ld. Counsel for the accused. I
 have also given my thoughtful consideration to the material available on
 Digitally
 signed by
 record. Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 Kumar Date: 12. After going through the record and considering the material available on
 record, the only point of determination left is whether the prosecution has
 been able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused committed
 offences punishable under section 411 IPC. LAW AND LEGAL PRINCIPLES INVOLVED 13. Section 411 of the IPC provides that whoever dishonestly receives or
 retains any stolen property, knowing or having reason to believe the same
 to be stolen property is said to 'dishonestly receive stolen property'. It
 means mere possession of stolen property is not and cannot be an offence.
 In order to be an offence, it must be received or retained dishonestly, and
 with the knowledge, or sufficient cause for belief that it was stolen property.
 To be liable under Section 411 of the IPC, it must be proved that the accused
 either dishonestly received the property or having received honestly,
 dishonestly retained it. In both the cases the accused must receive it from
 another. The mere recovery of stolen property certainly is not enough for
 conviction under section 411 of the IPC. 14. The general burden of proof, which is a non-shifting burden, on the
 prosecution is to prove the guilt of accused beyond reasonable doubt. The
 presumption of innocence of the accused has to be rebutted by the
 prosecution by adducing cogent evidence that points only towards the guilt
 of accused. The evidence in the present case is to be weighed keeping in
 view the above legal standards. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE AND REASONS FOR DECISION
 OF THE CASE 15. In the instant case, PW-4 is the IO who conducted the investigation for the
 offence u/s 379 IPC as well as after the stolen property was allegedly
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav UdbhavJain
 FIR No.135/2009 State vs. Chand @ Aftab & Anr.Kumar Kumar
 Date: 16. It is an admitted fact that the present accused was formally arrested in the
 present case and all the witnesses examined in the present case are police
 witnesses and admittedly, no public/independent witness was neither made
 as a witness in the recovery proceeding or the case nor any such witness
 has been examined by the prosecution which not only casts a serious doubt
 upon the story of the prosecution but also attributes oblique motive to their
 actions. 17. The alleged spot of recovery was a public place but strangely, no public
 person was asked to join the proceedings, and prosecution has failed to
 show that any such efforts were taken. In fact, PW-3 admitted in his cross-
 examination that neither public witness was joined at the time of recovery
 of case property and that no recovery was affected at the instance of the
 present accused. This creates serious doubt regarding the fairness of
 investigation. In Anoop Joshi Vs. State . 1992 (2) C. C. Cases 314 (HC),
 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi observed as under: "18. It is repeatedly laid down by this Court that in such cases it should be shown
 by the police that sincere efforts have been made to join independent witnesses.
 In the present case, it is evident that no such sincere efforts have been made,
 particularly when we find that shops were open and one or two shopkeepers
 could have persuaded to join the raiding party to witness the recovery being
 made from the appellant. In case any of the shopkeepers had declined to join the
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 Kumar Date: 20. The answers given by the accused to the questions pertaining to
 incriminating evidence led by the prosecution against him raise serious
 doubts on the case of the prosecution and implies that the accused in the
 absence of any public witness, may have been falsely implicated in the
 Digitally
 present case. Udbhav
 signed by
 Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 Kumar Date: 21. Furthermore, it has been held by Hon'ble Supreme Court in S.L. Goswami
 (Dr) v. State of M.P. , (1972) 3 SCC 22 that the accused is entitled to benefit
 of doubt where the onus of proving the ingredients of the offence is not
 discharged by the prosecution. The same view was reiterated by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court recently in Nanjundappa & Anr. v. The State of
 Karnataka 2022 SCC OnLine SC 628. In the present case, as already noted
 above, the prosecution could not discharge the onus of proving the
 ingredients of offence due to non-appearance of complainant and
 eyewitness. Thus, accused Chand @ Aftab is entitled to benefit of doubt. CONCLUSION 22. In view of the above discussion, the accused Chand @ Aftab is hereby
 found not guilty. Accordingly, accused A Chand @ Aftab is hereby
 acquitted of the offence under section 411 / 34 IPC. File be consigned to record room after due compliance with direction to
 revive the same as and when absconder accused Sanjay @ Rahul is
 apprehended and produced before the Court. Announced in open court today i.e., 23.07.2025. Udbhav by Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 Kumar Date: