1. This matter has been referred to the Larger Bench for resolving the conflicting views as held in the case of Goodluck Industries v. Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta [1999 (108) E.L.T. 818 (Tribunal)] and in the case of Commissioner of Customs v. Special Steels Ltd. [2004 (163) E.L.T. 242 (Tri.-Mumbai) respectively by the two Division Benches of this Tribunal, over the same issue. 2. The issue, over which the controversy has arisen, is as follows : 3. The facts involved in the appeal in a nutshell may be stated as follows. 4. Since there exists divergence views of two Division Benches and as the issue involved is highly contentious in respect of fulfilment of conditions of DEEC Notification, the matter has been referred for resolution by the Larger Bench. Hence this reference. 5. The relevant Notification is hereby extracted for the purpose of discussion, better understanding and just decision of the case. Provided that no such imported material shall be permitted clearance under this Notification unless a debit entry has been made, in the said licence and the said certificate, by the proper officer of Customs; (iv) that the imports and exports are undertaken from sea ports at Bombay, Calcutta, Cochin, Kandla, Mangalore, Marmgoa, Madras, Nhava Sheva, Paradeep, Tuticorin and Visakhapatnam, or through any of the airports at Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, Jaipur, Varanasi, Srinagar, Trivandrum, Hyderabad and Madras or through any of the Inland Container Depots at Bangalore, Coimbatore, Delhi, New Gauhati Goods Shed, Moradabad, Ludhiana and Hyderabad; Provided that the Collector of Customs may be special under and subject to such conditions as may be specified by him, permit imports and exports from any other seaport, airport, land customs station or inland container depot; (v) that the export obligation is discharged, within the period specified in the said certificate or within such extended period as may be granted by the Licensing Authority, by exporting goods manufactured in India in respect of which - (a) no input stage credit is obtained under Rule 56A or 57A of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 (hereinafter referred to as the said rules); (b) facility under Rule 191A or 191B as in force immediately before the 1st October, 1994, or Rule 121(l)(b) or Rule 13(l)(b) of the said rules, has not been availed; and (c) drawback has not been claimed either under Section 74 of the Customs Act, 1962 or Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback Rules, 1971; (vi) exempt materials shall not be disposed of or utilized in any manner, except for utilization in discharge of export obligation, before the export obligation under the said licence has been discharged in full and export proceed realized; Provided that Acetic Anhydride in respect of which the benefit of this Notification is claimed shall be utilized by the importer in his own factory or in the factory of any other manufacturer indicated in the said certificate even after discharge of export obligation and realization of export proceeds; (vii) where benefit of this Notification is sought by a person other than licencee, such benefit shall be allowed against the said licence and the said certificate only if it bears endorsement of transferability by the Licensing Authority; Provided that benefit of this Notification shall not be allowed to a transferee of the licence for import of Acetic Anhydride except where licence is endorsed for transferability before 24th November, 1993, and is transferred to an actual user who undertakes to use the Acetic Anhydride in his own factory. (viii) Notwithstanding anything contained in conditions (vi) and (vii) above, the endorsement or transferability or disposal of materials shall be allowed in respect of licences issued for the export of alt kinds of writing instruments (including gift sets and refills/nibs) on fulfilment of export obligation only in favour of manufacture of writing instruments. Explanation. - In this Notification - (i) "Export and Import Policy April, 1992 - March, 1997" means the export and Import Policy 1st April, 1992 - March, 1997, published vide Public Notice of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce No. 1-ITC (PN)/92-97, dated 31st March, 1992 as amended from time to time. (ii) "Licensing Authority" means an authority competent to grant a licence under Imports (Control) Order, 1955 made under the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 1947). (iii) "Materials" means - (a) raw materials, components, intermediates, consumables and parts required for manufacture of export product; Provided that in the case of electronic goods and all kinds of writing instruments (including gift sets and refills/nibs), all export items covered by one serial number m the Standard Input Output and Value Addition norms as contained in Handbook of Procedures, 1992-97, Volume-II, published vide Public Notice No. 121(PN)/92-97, dated the 31st March, 1993 of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce, shall be deemed to be single export product; Provided further that nothing contained in this Notification shall apply to import of Acetic Anhydride against licences issued after 24th November, 1993, except where such licences together with the quantity required for manufacture of the export product mentioned therein have been issued with the approval of Advance Licensing Committee in the office of the Director General of Foreign Trade; (b) spares and mandatory spares, within a value limit of 5% of the value of the licence issued up to 31st March, 1993, which are required to be exported along with the export product; and (c) packing materials required for packing of export product." 6. Condition (i) of Notification No. 203/92-Cus requires that the material imported are covered by Value Based Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate (referred to as the certificate) issued by the licensing authority in the form specified in the Schedule to the Notification. 7. (a) Condition (ii)(a) of the Notification requires the importer to produce proof of having executed bond and LUT before the licensing authority. Condition (ii)(b) of the Notification provides that the importer should make a declaration before the Assistant Commissioner of Customs binding himself to pay on demand an amount equal to the duty leviable on the imported goods but for the exemption Notification, if the conditions of the Notification are not complied with. (b) The proviso to condition (ii) states that the requirement of execution of bond and LUT is not applicable if the imports are made after the discharge of export obligation. (c) Generally the goods are imported and thereafter the export obligation is discharged. In such a situation, Condition (ii) has to be complied with. (d) Condition (ii)(a) need not be satisfied if the goods are imported after the discharge of export obligation imposed by the advance licence. In other words, the moment the export obligation is discharged, by virtue of the proviso to condition (ii), condition (ii)(a) and (ii)(b) are dispensed with. 8. (a) Conditions (iii) of the Notification No. 203/92-Cus. requires the production of the DEEC at the time of import of the goods. The proviso to the said condition states that the benefit of the Notification shall be extended only after a debit entry in the said certificate. (b) Condition (iv) of the Notification states that the goods are to be imported through specified ports. 9. Condition (v) of the Notification requires the fulfilment of export obligation within the period specified in the DEEC or within the extended period as may be extended by the licensing authority. It also provides that the export obligation is undertaken without availing of the input credit under Rule 57A or 56A of the Central Excise Rules, 1944. 10. Condition (vi) of the Notification states that the exempt material shall not be used or disposed of in any manner except for utilization of export obligation. This condition is not applicable if the materials after the fulfilment of the export obligation by the original licence-holder. 11. Condition (vii) of the Notification No. 203/92-Cus. states that if the benefit of Notification is sought by a person other than a licencee, such benefit shall be allowed only if the licence bears the endorsement of transferability by the licensing authority. 12. Condition No. (viii) Irrespective of fact as to what is contained in condition (vi) and (vii), the endorsement of transferability or disposal of materials shall be allowed in respect of licences issued for the export of all kinds of writing instruments on fulfilment of export obligation only in favour of manufacture of writing instruments. 13. (a) The certificate to be issued by the licensing authority in the form appended in the Schedule to the Notification is in 2 parts. Part-1 deals with imports and Part-2 deals with exports. (b) Part-2 consists of Part-A to I. Part-E provides details of export obligation to be fulfilled by the original licence-holder. Part-F provides details of actual exports made by the original licence-holder. Part-H provides summary of imports and exports made against the licence/certificate. Part-I contains the endorsement of transferability by the DGFT. (c) As can be seen from Part-F and H of the Part-1 of the certificate, the exports made by the original licence-holder are verified by the Customs Department to the effect that the exports are made in terms of the Notification No. 203/92-Cus. That the export obligation is discharged in terms of the Notification No. 203/92-Cus. is also verified by the Excise Department, when the goods are exported under cover of ARE forms. (d) Based on these factors, the licensing authority arrives at the satisfaction that the export obligation is fulfilled by the original licence-holder and thereafter makes the endorsement of transferability on the licence. (e) Hence, the satisfaction arrived at in the above manner is final and binding on the Customs Department. The Customs Department cannot compel the appellants-importer, who are the transferee, to once again prove that the export obligation has been fulfilled by the original licence-holder in accordance with the Notification and without availing input stage credit. (f) Thereafter, when the transferee imports the goods on the basis of the transferred licence/certificate, the condition (v) is deemed to be satisfied. 14. If the Customs Department alleges that the endorsement of transferability has been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation, then, it must be proved by them. It is a settled law that the onus is on the person who alleges fraud has been committed. 15. The principle that fraud vitiates everything is not applicable in respect of third party rights created by bonafide transaction". 16. Notification No. 203/92-Cus. grants complete exemption from payment of basic customs duty and additional duty of customs (CVP) in respect of goods imported against Value Based Advance Licence (VABAL) issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). 17. The DGFT makes the licence transferable by endorsing on the licence, after the licence-holder discharges the export obligation as stipulated in the licence, by exporting the goods mentioned in the licence within the time specified in the licence or within the time limit extended by the DGFT and without availing the input credit. The appellants have raised the following propositions for consideration by the Larger Bench : 2. Where the Notification applies to more than one person, which, in this case, means the original licencee end the transferee thereof, the conditions of the Notification must be read independently. Accordingly, Clauses (ii), (v), (vi) and (vii) would not apply to transferee. As such, Clause (v) of these two Notifications would apply only to the original licencee and not to the transferee. 3. Special conditions prevail over general conditions and since Clause (vii)/Clause (viii) (as the case may be), are special clauses applicable only to the transferee, the same shall prevail over the general conditions of the Notification. It, therefore, follows that where the transferee is able to show that the licence has been endorsed as "transferable" and the licence has been duly transferred in his name, the transferee is eligible for the benefit of the said Notification. 4. Where the law requires something to be done, it is presumed that all things or pre-conditions necessary for the purposes of doing such an act have been done. It, therefore, follows that where the grant of transferability pre-supposes non-availment of Modvat credit, the fact that the licence has been endorsed as being transferable presupposes that Modvat credit was not availed by the transferor-licencee, unless it is shown by way of independent and cogent evidence that Modvat credit was availed. 5. There is no material or evidence on record to show that the licencee in the present case did avail itself of Modvat credit and hence the demand cannot be raised in the absence of any evidence or material on record to show that the licencee did not avail the Modvat credit. 6. The burden to show that the Modvat credit was availed by the licencee is on the Department, particularly when the Department initially at the time of assessment of the Bill of Entry, had extended the benefit of the said Notification, which benefit is subsequently sought to be denied by the Department. 7. The proviso to Section 28(1) of the Customs Act is applicable only when there is a suppression of facts Or wilful mis-statement by the importer or his agent. So long as there is no suppression of facts or wilful mis-statement, the proviso to Section 28(1) cannot be invoked against the transferee. Hence, the demand is barred by limitation where notices have been served beyond six months from the relevant date. 18. The following are the contentions raised by the Customs Department : 19. It is not the argument of the importer that customs authorities, cannot go into the aspect whether the condition (v)(a) of the Notification No. 203/92-Cus. is satisfied or not as the importer is not the exporter of the goods mentioned in the licence. The arguments/submissions of the importer is entirely different, as explained in the following paragraphs : (b) granting of extension to the export obligation period, by specifying in condition (v) of the Notification No. 203/92-Cus. (c) The Schedule to the Notification No. 203/92-Cus. contains the Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate issued by the DGFT. Part-2 (Export) of the Certificate provides that the endorsement of the licensing authority is required for waiving the requirement of executing the bond if the licence-holder has completed the export obligation. Part-2 is re-produced below : It is well settled that Schedule appended to a statute is part of the statute as per para 24 of the Constitution Bench decision of the Supreme Court in Ujagar Prints - . Thus, reading of the Notification (including the Schedule) as a whole, makes it clear that the conditions upon which the exemption is granted are to be satisfied at various points of time and subject to the satisfaction of authorities specified in the Notification itself namely DGFT (licensing authority) and Dy. Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, 20. For the purposes of the present case, the DGFT functions as the authority (or the proper officer) and arrives at the satisfaction about the discharge of export obligation by the licence-holder in terms of the DEEC Scheme. The DGFT does not function under the FTDR Act, 1992 for the purposes of the Notification. This view is also supported by the decision of the Gujarat High Court in Mahendra Petrochemicals Ltd. v. UOI - , affirmed by the Supreme Court in 2004 (174) E.L.T. A35. The question before the High Court was whether the assessee can file an application under Section 127B of the Customs Act, 1962 before the Settlement Commission, against a notice of demand issued by the DGFT directing payment of customs duty on unutilized raw material imported under the advance licence. The department contended before the High Court that the requirement of Section 127B of the Customs Act, ,1962 are not fulfilled by the assessee as there was no show cause notice issued by the proper officer of Customs demanding Customs duty from the assessee. Rejecting the contention of the Revenue, the High Court held as under : 21. It is submitted that after the DGFT certifies that the export obligation is discharged by the original licence-holder and makes the licence transferable, the satisfaction or certification of the DGFT that the export obligation has been discharged by the exporter cannot be reviewed by the Customs Department. This is for the reason that the satisfaction arrived at by the DGFT in certifying that the original licence-holder has discharged the export obligation by exporting the goods mentioned in the licence without availing the credit, is an irre-buttable presumption to the effect that exporter has not availed the benefit of Modvat credit on the inputs used in the goods exported. 22. The principle laid down by the Supreme Court and by other High Courts in decisions in the context of Sales Tax Law will apply to the present case: 8. It was contended on behalf of the dealer that he was not liable to pay sales tax as he had fulfilled all the conditions laid down under the provisions of Section 3-AA of the Act read with Rule 12-A of the U.P. Sales Tax Rules (hereinafter called the "Rules) inasmuch as he had sold the cotton yarn to registered dealers and had also obtained from them the certificates of resale on Form III-A and it was not possible nor was it his business to find out what the purchasers of the cotton yarn subsequently did. (c) The contention of the assessee was rejected by the High Court, in the following words, as recorded in para 2 of the decision. 2. The Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court was of the opinion that the controversy raised in the reference was covered by the decision of the Full Bench of the said High Court in CST v. Shankar Lal Chandra Prakash where it was held that the certificate in Form III-A was only a prima facie evidence of the fact that the goods had not been sold to a consumer. The Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court was further of the opinion that certificate was not conclusive evidence and the department could go behind the certificate and if it found that the goods had not been resold in accordance with the certificate given in Form III-A and had been consumed, in such a case the department could ignore the certificate and levy tax on the selling dealer (d) Accepting the contention of the assessee and setting aside the decision of the High Court, the Supreme Court held as under : Applying, the above ratio to the present case, it is to be held that the Customs Department can certainly insist on the production of certification or endorsement by the DGFT for granting the exemption to the importer that the obligations have been discharged by the licence-holder in terms of the DEEC Scheme/Notification i.e. the exporter did not avail credit of duty paid on the inputs used in the goods exported. However, the Customs Department cannot go into the correctness or otherwise and sit in judgment of the certification or satisfaction arrived at by the DGFT when the certificate or endorsement creates an irrebuttable presumption that the exporter has not availed input credit. The exemption, consequently, cannot be denied to the importer. This principle was once again reiterated by the Supreme Court in a recent decision of Ashok Leyland Ltd. v. State of Tamil Nadu - 2004 (3) SCC 1, in Paras 59 and 61, the Supreme Court held as under: The above legal position laid down by the Supreme Court has been consistently followed by the various High Courts as in the following judgments :- ( c) Premier Electro-Mechanical Fabricators v. The State of Madras - 1968 (22) STC 269 (Mad.) ( d) State of Tamil Nadu v. Madras Petro Chem Ltd. - 1993 (89) STC 438 (Mad.) (e) CST v. General Electric Co. of India Ltd. -1992 (84) STC 78 (MP) (f) The Dy. CST v. Bharat Refineries Ltd. -1978 (42) STC 225 (Ker.) (g) Star Paper Mills Ltd. v. CST - 2005 (139) STC 245 (All) 23. The submission of the importer in the present case, based on the ratio of the above decision of the Supreme Court and High Court is that no review procedure is laid down under the Customs Act or under the Foreign Trade (Development & Regulation) Act, 1992 to challenge the satisfaction arrived at by the DGFT that the licence-holder or the exporter has discharged the export obligation in terms of the Notification by not availing the input credit. Similarly, no machinery is provided to challenge the endorsement of transferability granted by the DGFT after his satisfaction about the discharge of the export obligation by the exporter in terms of the Notification. Hence, the satisfaction arrived at the DGFT on the finding arrived that the exporter has discharged the export obligation without availing the input credit is binding on the customs department at all times. 24. If the DGFT finds that the satisfaction or endorsement has been obtained by the exporter by mis-representation, then DGFT may, perhaps, take appropriate action against the exporter for the misrepresentation, under the FTDR Act or the Rules framed thereunder. 25. The ratio of sales tax decisions will apply even while construing exemption Notification under the Central Excise or Customs. In Central Excise, effective rate of duty for cigarettes is prescribed by exemption Notification. The effective rate of duty is prescribed with reference to the MRP declared on the cigarette packs. The excise department demanded differential excise duty from ITC on the ground that a higher price than indicated in the pack has been charged by the retailer. The argument of the ITC was that sale of cigarettes by the retailer at a higher price cannot make the manufacturer (ITC) liable. The decision of the Tribunal in ITC is reported in 1998 (104) E.L.T. 151. The Tribunal in paras 31 and 34 held as under : The view taken by the Tribunal was reversed by the Supreme Court in ITC v. CCE - . After referring to the decisions of Radio & Electricals and Chunni Lal Parshadi Lal in para 45, the Supreme Court in para 48 held as under: The Supreme Court in CCE v. Maruti Udyog Ltd. - 2001 (127) E.L.T. A169 affirmed a similar view taken by the Tribunal in Maruti Udyog Ltd. v. CCE - 2000 (124) E.L.T. 1175 (T). SI. No. 6 of Notification No. 162/86 granted partial exemption to saloon cars subject to the condition that the Assistant Collector is satisfied that "such saloon cars are required for use solely as taxis" and a certificate from the State Transport Authority is furnished to the effect that "each such saloon car has been registered for use solely as taxi". The Revenue, inter alia, demanded duty from Maruti Udyog on the ground that the vehicles cleared on concessional rate of duty were converted into other vehicles after some time and in some cases on the very same day. The Tribunal in its order reported at 2000 (124) E.L.T. 1175 (T) concluded that once the manufacturer has produced a certificate from the State Transport Authority and that certificate is not a forged document or produced by collusion, demand cannot be raised on the manufacturer on the ground that the vehicle has not been found to be used as taxi. While holding so, the Tribunal applied the principle laid down by the Supreme Court in Radio & Electricals. In view of the above decisions, it is to be held that the Customs Department cannot raise an alibi if the condition (v)(a) is not fulfilled by the exporter. 26. As observed by the Supreme Court, the Department can resort to any remedy ordinarily available under the law and proceed against the exporter, e.g., the Customs Department can proceed under Section 132 of the Customs Act, 1962 against the exporter for misrepresentation, but cannot demand duty from the importer/transferee. 27. At this stage, the following observation of the decision of Bombay High Court in Bombay Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India - is relevant and reproduced below : 28. In Sulekh Ram and Sons v. UOI - 1978 (2) E.L.T. 525 (Del.) the issue was whether the assessee was entitled to the exemption under Notification No. 206/63-C.E. This Notification granted exemption to iron and steel products falling under 26AA(ia) of the old tariff, if such items are made from re-rollable scrap on which appropriate amount of excise duty has been paid. The excise department contended that the assessee is not entitled for the exemption since the re-rollable scrap has been purchased by the assessee from Hindustan Steel Ltd., who has not paid excise duty on the re-rollable scrap. The High Court while holding that assessee is entitled to the exemption, held as under : 14. ... The exemption was, therefore, available to the petitioner even if by the mistake of the Hindustan Steel and/or of the Excise Officer, the duty on re-rollable scrap had not actually been paid by the Hindustan Steel and recovered by the Excise Officers." 29. An issue came before the Supreme Court whether the assessee is entitled to exemption under Notification No. 125/75-C.E. granting exemption to textured yarn made out of duty paid based yarn. The department denied the exemption to textured yarn on the ground that the assessee has to prove that the base yarn which he purchased from the market is duty paid. The Tribunal held that any goods purchased from the market is deemed to be duty paid since no excisable goods can be removed from the factory without payment of duty. The Supreme Court approved the decision of the Tribunal in CCE v. Decent Dyeing - . While holding so, the Supreme Court also approved the decision of Delhi High Court in Sulekh Ram & Sons - 1978 E.L.T. J525 and held as under : The ratio of the above decision will apply to the present case also inasmuch as the transferability is granted by the DGFT only after the export obligation is discharged by the licence-holder in terms of the DEEC Scheme/Notification i.e. including that exporter/licence-holder has not availed the Modvat credit on inputs. Therefore, the appellants who had purchased the licence from the market and got the transfer endorsements from DGFT, can legally presume that the export obligation had been fulfilled without availing of input credit and consequently the condition (v)(a) of Notification No. 203/92-Cus. has been fulfilled and therefore he is entitled for the exemption. 30. (a) Assuming that the original licence-holder has committed fraud and obtained the transferability by mis-representation, even then the rights created by the licence in favour of the present importer is valid. (b) Generally there is a finality attached to every transaction - whether under a contract or otherwise. The general principle is 'fraud vitiates everything' affects the finality attached to a transaction. However, such a transaction is voidable and not void ab initio. In other words, the person on whom fraud is committed i.e. the person who is defrauded has the option of treating the transaction as binding or disown the same. (c) In East India Commercial Co. Ltd. v. CC - , the contention of the Revenue was that the licence has been obtained by the importer by mis-representation and hence, the licence issued to him was nonest in the eyes of law. This contention of the Revenue was rejected by the Supreme Court. It was also held by the Supreme Court, erring in favour of the Revenue, that even if principles enunciated under the law of contract are applied and the licence is treated as a contract between the Government and the licence-holder, the licence is voidable at the instance of the licensing authority and the licence does net become void ab initio. Therefore, the transferred licence and transferee has the option and they do not hold a licence which is void. 31. (a) The general principle is that no one can give what he has not got. However there are exceptions to this principle. This general principle and the exceptions are provided in Section 29 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930. Section 29 of the Sale of Goods Act reads as under : Reference may also be made to the commentary on Sale of Goods by P.S. Atiyah, 8th Edition wherein it has been stated as under : (b) The principle contained in Section 29 of the Sale of Goods Act will apply to the present case since licence has been held to be goods by Supreme Court in Vikas Sales Corporation v. CCT - . The Supreme Court held that transferable REP licence is 'goods', for the purposes of Section 2(7) of the Sale of Goods Act. Though Section 29 of the Sales of Goods Act refers to the buyer acquiring a title under a voidable contract, this principle has been applied by the Supreme Court in 1968 (2) SCR 797 in the case of Ningawwa v. Byrappa Shiddappa Hireknrabar . Therefore, it is to be reiterated that the transferee-importer has attained a good title to the licence and the endorsement of transferability cannot be held to be not valid in the hands of the importer, who is a bona fide purchaser of the licence. 32. The issue referred to the Larger Bench is covered by the decision of Bombay High Court in Taparia Overseas - (a) The very issue has been decided by the Bombay High Court in Taparia Overseas (P) Ltd. - . After referring to various decisions and the book titled 'Keer on Law of Fraud and Mistake', it is held as under : (b) This decision was followed by the Bombay High Court itself in San-jay Sanwarmal Agarwal v. UOI - 2004 (169) E.L.T. 261 (Bom). In this case, it has been held in respect of advance licence under EXIM Policy. The licence of the transferee was suspended by the Licensing Authority on the ground of initiation of enquiry by Customs authorities against the transferor and imported goods of the transferee were seized. The licence was transferred on completion of export obligation and after audit of DEC books by Customs authorities. In such circumstances, it is observed that the Customs authorities were wrong in not accepting the licence and goods were not liable to duty entitling the petitioner to claim refund of duty paid under protest. 33. Where transfer has been effected without notice to the transferee of alleged fraud, the concept of fraud vitiate everything is not applicable as licence was transferred for value arising out of importable transaction governed by any law. 34. The Id. DR. has relied upon a decision in the case of Nawab Sir Mir Osman AH Khan v. Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Hyderabad , . That appeal was filed by the assessee under Wealth Tax Act, 1957 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court, which called for answers on two questions - In respect of first question, the Court made the following observation : Ultimately, the question was answered in favour of the Revenue holding that the property belonging to the assessee for the purpose of inclusion in his net wealth. In the instant case, the transfer of licence has been effected for valid consideration and following the procedure laid down under the Notification. This is not a case of transfer of immovable property so as to apply the aforesaid decision relied upon by the Department. The decision would not help Revenue. 35. It is already noted in the preceding paragraph that a licence is to be treated as goods as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of M/s. Vikas Sales Corpn. Nothing remains there to be performed by the transferor in effecting the transfer in favour of the transferee since it bears the endorsement of transferability by the Licensing Authority. 36. The Id. JDR further relied upon the following decisions :- 37. The Referral Bench has raised the question about the availability of benefit of legal maxim LEX NON COGIT AD IMPOSSIBILIA to the transferee of advance licence. This maxim means - It is noted in the book written on legal maxim that a general rule, which admits an ample practical illustration that an impotentia excusat legem, where the law creates a duty or charge, and the party is disallowed to perform it, without any default in law, and has no remedy over there the law will in general excuse him. In the case of Special Steel Ltd. , it is noted that the quantity based advance licence scheme under Notification No. 204/92 is either a compulsory scheme or that it compels anyone to do the impossible. This maxim is to be read from the point of view of performance of an act by the transferee of licence to fulfil the condition, which is allegedly not discharged by the transferor but certainly not from the point of view of the applicability of Notification. Therefore, from that point of view it is an impossible act on the part of the transferee where fraud is subsequently detected by the authorities concerned. Therefore, the phrase cannot be used with reference to the Notification, which do not compel either of the original licence holder or subsequent purchaser to come under the scheme. Even if the scheme is not compulsory as held in the above decision and it is optional, it cannot compel the transferee to do an act, which is not in his limit. 38. The Bench in the case of Special Steel Ltd. relied upon the decision of Commissioner of Customs v. Bharat Pulverizing Limited reported in 1999 (111) E.L.T. 193 (Tri. ), wherein it is held that once licence has been transferred by the Licensing Authority, the importability of goods cannot be questioned by the Customs Authorities, but as far as levy of duty is concerned, it is for the Customs Authorities to look into it. The decision in the case of M/s. Goodluck Industries, which is earlier to Bharat Pulverizing Ltd. 's case, has not been referred either in the Special Steel Limited or in Bharat Pulverzing case. The case in Bharat Pulverizing Ltd. has been stayed by Mumbai High Court. 39. In Goodluck Industries v. Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta, reported in 1999 (108) E.L.T. 818 (Tri.), a similar issue as in the case on hand confronted the Bench and the same has been resolved by construction of the words in the Notification as well as in the conditions by giving effect of the literal meaning. The observations of the Bench with regard to the Notification No. 203/92 and its conditions are extracted hereunder : The aforesaid decision of the Tribunal has also been confirmed later by the Hon'ble Supreme Court [2000 (120) E.L.T. A66)] and followed in several decisions viz. Plastchem [2000 (120) E.L.T. 775)] and Avni Dyechem Industries [2001 (137) E.L.T. 1316 (Tribunal)]. The Id. Commissioner, however, did not consider the Order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court on the ground that it is a non-speaking order and non-declaratory in nature while relying on other judgment of the Supreme Court. In the above case, Department went in appeal against the Order passed by the Tribunal and after hearing the counsel for the appellants, the order made is as follows : The Id. Commissioner apparently erred in his view in not considering the same. There is no other issue involved in the above appeal except extending the benefit to the transferee of licence under conditions (v) and (vii) of the said Notification. Mere non-discussion of the Notification and its conditions at the cost of repetition or elaboration, where the point is understood and consequently an operative order is made by the Apex Court, it is deemed that all the issues involved in the case have been considered and the finality reached, the same is enforceable. 40. The similar issue came before the Supreme Court once again in the case of Titan Medical Systems Pvt. Ltd. v. Collector of Customs, New Delhi [2003 (151) E.L.T. 254 (S.C.)]. It is observed that "once an advance licence was issued and not questioned by the Licensing Authority, the Customs Authorities cannot refuse exemption on an allegation that there was any misrepresentation. If there was any mis-representation, it was for the Licensing Authority to take steps in the behalf". 41. In the case of Marmo Classics v. Commissioner of Customs , the Tribunal, while examining the scope of DEEC Scheme under the EXIM Policy in respect of advance licence, has held that the Commissioner has no right to go beyond the licence and sit in judgment over the Licencing Authority. Further, it is observed that a licence issued is valid till it is cancelled. It is confirmed by the Supreme Court vide its judgment . 42. As seen from the material on record, the Duty Exemption Scheme, which is part of the EXIM Policy 1992-97, is administrated by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, Notification No. 203/92-Cus. has been issued to effectuate the exemption scheme laid down in Chapter 7 of the EXIM Policy. For this reason, issuing VBAL or QBAL, DEEC, execution of bond, legal undertaking, monitoring of import and export item, fulfilment of export obligation, realization of export proceeds, discharge of bond and legal undertaking have all been vested with the licensing authority. Certain special powers have been given to the DGFT/or the licensing authority to exercise the same in public interest. The Customs officers, while implementing the Notification 203/92-Cus., cannot question or appear to question the decisions and actions of the competent authority in the said Directorate unless it is strictly permitted by the terms of the Notification. The plain reading of condition (vii) makes it abundantly clear that benefit of Notification is to be extended to a person other than a person to whom the licence has been issued, if there is an endorsement of transfer by the licensing authority both on the VBAL and the DEEC. Benefit of Notification, cannot, therefore, be denied to the transferee on the ground of breach of condition (va). The Customs Authorities cannot question the powers of the licensing authorities unless it is mentioned in the Notification. 43. Thus, in view of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the considered opinion that the principles evolved in the case of Goodluck Industries and upheld by Apex Court and followed subsequently in other cases, is to be made applicable to the case on hand, since it is based on sound principle of law. Consequently, we uphold the contentions raised by the appellants while negating the contentions raised by the Department. Therefore the legal maxim LEX NON COGIT AD IMPOSSIBILIA can be invoked and benefit of the same be given to the transferee of the licence for claiming exemption under the Notification. The transferee cannot be called upon to fulfil the condition (v)(a) of the Notification No. 203/92-Cus. It is the original licencee, who has to satisfy the above referred condition, but not the transferee of the licence. In the result, the reference is answered accordingly. (Pronounced in Court on 20-9-2005)