I

 "Follow the money" was the short and simple advice 

given by the secret informant, within the American 

Government, to Bob Woodward, the journalist from 

Washington Post, in aid of his investigations of the 

Watergate Hotel break in. Money has often been claimed, by 

economists, to only be a veil that covers the real value and 

the economy. As a medium of exchange, money is vital for 

the smooth functioning of exchange in the market place. 2 However, increasing monetization of most social transactions 

has been viewed as potentially problematic for the social 

order, in as much as it signifies a move to evaluating value, 

and ethical desirability, of most areas of social interaction 

only in terms of price obtained in the market place. 2. Price based notions of value and values, as propounded 

 by some extreme neo-liberal doctrines, implies that the 

 values that ought to be promoted, in societies, are the 

 ones for which people are willing to pay a price for. 

 Values, and social actions, for which an effective demand 

 is not expressed in the market, are neglected, even if lip 

 service is paid to their essentiality. However, it cannot be 

 denied that not everything that can be, and is transacted, 

 in the market for a price is necessarily good, and 

 enhances social welfare. Moreover, some activities, even 

 if costly and without being directly measurable in terms of 

 exchange value, are to be rightly viewed as essential. It is 

 a well established proposition, of political economy, and of 

 statecraft, that the State has a necessary interest in 

 determining, and influencing, the kinds of transactions, 

 and social actions, that occur within a legal order. From 

 prevention of certain kinds of harmful activities, that may 

 range from outright crimes, to regulating or controlling, 

 and consequently mitigating, socially harmful modes of 

 social and economic production, to promotion of activities 3 that are deemed to be of higher priority, than other 

 activities which may have a lower priority, howsoever 

 evaluated in terms of social utility, are all the 

 responsibilities of the State. Whether such activities by 

 the State result in directly measurable benefits or not is 

 often not the most important factor in determining their 

 desirability; their absence, or their substantial 

 evisceration, are to be viewed as socially destructive. 3. The scrutiny, and control, of activities, whether in the 

 economic, social or political contexts, by the State, in the 

 public interest as posited by modern constitutionalism, is 

 substantially effectuated by the State "following the 

 money." In modern societies very little gets accomplished 

 without transfer of money. The incidence of crime, petty 

 and grand, like any other social phenomena is often 

 linked to transfers of monies, small or large. Money, in 

 that sense, can both power, and also reward, crime. As 

 noted by many scholars, with increasing globalization, an 

 ideological and social construct, in which transactions 

 across borders are accomplished with little or no control 

 over the quantum, and mode of transfers of money in 

 exchange for various services and value rendered, both 

 legal and illegal, nation-states also have begun to 

 confront complex problems of cross-border crimes of all 

 kinds. Whether this complex web of flows of funds, 4 instantaneously, and in large sums is good or bad, from 

 the perspective of lawful and desired transactions is not at 

 issue in the context of the matters before this Court. 4. The worries of this Court that arise, in the context of the 

 matters placed before us, are with respect to transfers of 

 monies, and accumulation of monies, which are 

 unaccounted for by many individuals and other legal 

 entities in the country, in foreign banks. The worries of 

 this Court relate not merely to the quantum of monies 

 said to have been secreted away in foreign banks, but 

 also the manner in which they may have been taken away 

 from the country, and with the nature of activities that 

 may have engendered the accumulation of such monies. 

 The worries of this Court are also with regard to the 

 nature of activities that such monies may engender, both 

 in terms of the concentration of economic power, and also 

 the fact that such monies may be transferred to groups 

 and individuals who may use them for unlawful activities 

 that are extremely dangerous to the nation, including 

 actions against the State. The worries of this Court also 

 relate to whether the activities of engendering such 

 unaccounted monies, transferring them abroad, and the 

 routing them back to India may not actually be creating a 

 culture that extols the virtue of such cycles, and the 

 activities that engender such cycles are viewed as 5 desirable modes of individual and group action. The 

 worries of this court also relate to the manner, and the 

 extent to which such cycles are damaging to both national 

 and international attempts to combat the extent, nature 

 and intensity of cross-border criminal activity. Finally, the 

 worries of this Court are also with respect to the extent of 

 incapacities, system wide, in terms of institutional 

 resources, skills, and knowledge, as well as about 

 incapacities of ethical nature, in keeping an account of the 

 monies generated by various facets of social action in the 

 country, and thereby developing effective mechanisms of 

 control. These incapacities go to the very heart of 

 constitutional imperatives of governance. Whether such 

 incapacities are on account of not having devoted enough 

 resources towards building such capacities, or on account 

 of a broader culture of venality in the wider spheres of 

 social and political action, they run afoul of constitutional 

 imperatives. 5. Large amounts of unaccounted monies, stashed away in 

 banks located in jurisdictions that thrive on strong privacy 

 laws protecting bearers of those accounts to avoid 

 scrutiny, raise each and every worry delineated above. 

 First and foremost, such large monies stashed abroad, 

 and unaccounted for by individuals and entities of a 

 country, would suggest the necessity of suspecting that 6 they have been generated in activities that have been 

 deemed to be unlawful. In addition, such large amounts of 

 unaccounted monies would also lead to a natural 

 suspicion that they have been transferred out of the 

 country in order to evade payment of taxes, thereby 

 depleting the capacity of the nation to undertake many 

 tasks that are in public interest. 6. Many schools of thought exist with regard to the primary 

 functions of the State, and the normative expectations of 

 what the role of the State ought to be. The questions 

 regarding which of those schools provide the absolutely 

 correct view cannot be the criteria to choose or reject any 

 specific school of thought as an aid in constitutional 

 adjudication. Charged with the responsibility of having to 

 make decisions in the present, within the constraints of 

 epistemic frailties of human knowledge, constitutional 

 adjudicators willy-nilly are compelled to choose those that 

 seem to provide a reasoned basis for framing of questions 

 relevant, both with respect to law, and to facts. 

 Institutional economics gives one such perspective which 

 may be a useful guide for us here. Viewed from a 

 functional perspective, the State, and governments, may 

 be seen as coming into existence in order to solve, what 

 institutional economists have come to refer to as, the 

 coordination problems in providing public goods, and 7 prevent the disutility that emerges from the moral hazard 

 of a short run utility maximizer, who may desire the 

 benefits of goods and services that are to be provided in 

 common to the public, and yet have the interest of not 

 paying for their production. 7. Security of the nation, infrastructure of governance, 

 including those that relate to law making and law keeping 

 functions, crime prevention, detection and punishment, 

 coordination of the economy, and ensuring minimal levels 

 of material, and cultural goods for those who may not be 

 in a position to fend for themselves or who have been left 

 by the wayside by the operation of the economy and 

 society, may all be cited as some examples of the kinds of 

 public goods that the State is expected to provide for, or 

 enable the provision of. In as much as the market is 

 primarily expected to cater to purely self centered 

 activities of individuals and groups, markets and the 

 domain of purely private social action significantly fail to 

 provide such goods. Consequently, the State, and 

 government, emerges to rectify the coordination problem, 

 and provide the public goods. 8. Unaccounted monies, especially large sums held by 

 nationals and entities with a legal presence in the nation, 

 in banks abroad, especially in tax havens or in 

 jurisdictions with a known history of silence about sources 8 of monies, clearly indicate a compromise of the ability of 

the State to manage its affairs in consonance with what is 

required from a constitutional perspective. This is so in 

two respects. The quantum of such monies by itself, along 

with the numbers of individuals or other legal entities who 

hold such monies, may indicate in the first instance that a 

large volume of activities, in the social and the economic 

spheres within the country are unlawful and causing great 

social damage, both at the individual and the collective 

levels. Secondly, large quanta of monies stashed abroad, 

would also indicate a substantial weakness in the capacity 

of the State in collection of taxes on incomes generated 

by individuals and other legal entities within the country. 

The generation of such revenues is essential for the State 

to undertake the various public goods and services that it 

is constitutionally mandated, and normatively expected by 

its citizenry, to provide. A substantial degree of 

incapacity, in the above respect, would be an indicia of 

the degree of failure of the State; and beyond a particular 

point, the State may spin into a vicious cycle of declining 

moral authority, thereby causing the incidence of unlawful 

activities in which wealth is sought to be generated, as 

well as instances of tax evasion, to increase in volume 

and in intensity. 9 9. Consequently, the issue of unaccounted monies held by 

 nationals, and other legal entities, in foreign banks, is of 

 primordial importance to the welfare of the citizens. The 

 quantum of such monies may be rough indicators of the 

 weakness of the State, in terms of both crime prevention, 

 and also of tax collection. Depending on the volume of 

 such monies, and the number of incidents through which 

 such monies are generated and secreted away, it may 

 very well reveal the degree of "softness of the State." 10.The concept of a "soft state" was famously articulated by 

 the Nobel Laureate, Gunnar Myrdal. It is a broad based 

 assessment of the degree to which the State, and its 

 machinery, is equipped to deal with its responsibilities of 

 governance. The more soft the State is, greater the 

 likelihood that there is an unholy nexus between the law 

 maker, the law keeper, and the law breaker. 11.When a catchall word like "crimes" is used, it is common 

 for people, and the popular culture to assume that it is 

 "petty crime," or crimes of passion committed by 

 individuals. That would be a gross mischaracterization of 

 the seriousness of the issues involved. Far more 

 dangerous are the crimes that threaten national security, 

 and national interest. For instance, with globalization, 

 nation states are also confronted by the dark worlds of 

 international arms dealers, drug peddlers, and various 1 kinds of criminal networks, including networks of terror. 

 International criminal networks that extend support to 

 home-grown terror or extremist groups, or those that 

 have been nurtured and sustained in hostile countries, 

 depend on networks of formal and informal, lawful and 

 unlawful mechanisms of transfer of monies across 

 boundaries of nation-states. They work in the interstices 

 of the micro-structures of financial transfers across the 

 globe, and thrive in the lacunae, the gaps in law and of 

 effort. The loosening of control over those mechanisms of 

 transfers, guided by an extreme neo-liberal thirst to 

 create a global market that is free of the friction of law 

 and its enforcement, by nation-states, may have also 

 contributed to an increase in the volume, extent and 

 intensity of activities by criminal and terror networks 

 across the globe. 12.Increasingly, on account of "greed is good" culture that 

 has been promoted by neo-liberal ideologues, many 

 countries face the situation where the model of capitalism 

 that the State is compelled to institute, and the markets it 

 spawns, is predatory in nature. From mining mafias to 

 political operators who, all too willingly, bend policies of 

 the State to suit particular individuals or groups in the 

 social and economic sphere, the raison d'etre for 

 weakening the capacities and intent to enforce the laws is 1 the lure of the lucre. Even as the State provides violent 

 support to those who benefit from such predatory 

 capitalism, often violating the human rights of its citizens, 

 particularly it's poor, the market begins to function like a 

 bureaucratic machine dominated by big business; and the 

 State begins to function like the market, where everything 

 is available for sale at a price. 13.The paradigm of governance that has emerged, over the 

 past three decades, prioritizes the market, and its natural 

 course, over any degree of control of it by the State. The 

 role for the State is visualized by votaries of the neo-

 liberal paradigm as that of a night watchman; and 

 moreover it is also expected to take its hands out of the 

 till of the wealth generating machinery. Based on the 

 theories of Arthur Laffer, and pushed by the Washington 

 Consensus, the prevailing wisdom of the elite, and of the 

 policy makers, is that reduction of tax rates, thereby 

 making tax regimes regressive, would incentivise the 

 supposed genius of entrepreneurial souls of individuals, 

 actuated by pursuit of self-interest and desire to 

 accumulate great economic power. It was expected that 

 this would enable the generation of more wealth, at a 

 more rapid pace, thereby enabling the State to generate 

 appropriate tax revenues even with lowered tax rates. 

 Further, benefits were also expected in moral terms - that 1 the lowering of tax rates would reduce the incentives of 

 wealth generators to hide their monies, thereby saving 

 them from the guilt of tax evasion. Whether that is an 

 appropriate model of social organization or not, and from 

 the perspective of constitutional adjudication, whether it 

 meets the requirements of constitutionalism as embedded 

 in the texts of various constitutions, is not a question that 

 we want to enter in this matter. 14.Nevertheless, it would be necessary to note that there is 

 a fly in the ointment of the above story of friction free 

 markets that would always clear, and always work to the 

 benefit of the society. The strength of tax collection 

 machinery can, and ought to be, expected to have a 

 direct bearing on the revenues collected by the State. If 

 the machinery is weak, understaffed, ideologically 

 motivated to look the other way, or the agents motivated 

 by not so salubrious motives, the amount of revenue 

 collected by the State would decline, stagnate, or may not 

 generate the revenue for the State that is consonant with 

 its responsibilities. From within the neo-liberal paradigm, 

 also emerged the under-girding current of thought that 

 revenues for the State implies a big government, and 

 hence a strong tax collecting machinery itself would be 

 undesirable. Where the elite lose out in democratic politics 

 of achieving ever decreasing tax rates, it would appear 1 that state machineries in the hands of the executive, all 

 too willing to promote the extreme versions of the neo-

 liberal paradigm and co-opt itself in the enterprises of the 

 elite, may also become all too willing to not develop 

 substantial capacities to monitor and follow the money, 

 collect the lawfully mandated taxes, and even look the 

 other way. The results, as may be expected, have been 

 disastrous across many nations. 15.In addition, it would also appear that in this miasmic 

 cultural environment in which greed is extolled, 

 conspicuous consumption viewed as both necessary and 

 socially valuable, and the wealthy viewed as demi-gods, 

 the agents of the State may have also succumbed to the 

 notions of the neo-liberal paradigm that the role of the 

 State ought to only be an enabling one, and not exercise 

 significant control. This attitude would have a significant 

 impact on exercise of discretion, especially in the context 

 of regulating economic activities, including keeping an 

 account of the monies generated in various activities, 

 both legal and illegal. Carried away by the ideology of 

 neo-liberalism, it is entirely possible that the agents of the 

 State entrusted with the task of supervising the economic 

 and social activities may err more on the side of extreme 

 caution, whereby signals of wrong doing may be ignored 

 even when they are strong. Instances of the powers that 1 be ignoring publicly visible stock market scams, or turning 

 a blind eye to large scale illegal mining have become all 

 too familiar, and may be readily cited. That such activities 

 are allowed to continue to occur, with weak, or non-

 existent, responses from the State may, at best, be 

 charitably ascribed to this broader culture of permissibility 

 of all manner of private activities in search of ever more 

 lucre. Ethical compromises, by the elite - those who wield 

 the powers of the state, and those who fatten themselves 

 in an ever more exploitative economic sphere- can be 

 expected to thrive in an environment marked by such a 

 permissive attitude, of weakened laws, and of weakened 

 law enforcement machineries and attitudes. 16.To the above, we must also add the fragmentation of 

 administration. Even as the range of economic, and social 

 activities have expanded, and their sophistication 

 increased by leaps and bounds, the response in terms of 

 administration by the State has been to create ever more 

 specialized agencies, and departments. To some degree 

 this has been unavoidable. Nevertheless, it would also 

 appear that there is a need to build internal capacities to 

 share information across such departments, lessen the 

 informational asymmetries between, and friction to flow of 

 information across the boundaries of departments and 

 agencies, and reduce the levels of consequent problems in 1 achieving coordination. Life, and social action within which 

 human life becomes possible, do not proceed on the basis 

 of specialized fiefdoms of expertise. They cut across the 

 boundaries erected as a consequence of an inherent 

 tendency of experts to specialize. The result, often, is a 

 system wide blindness, while yet being lured by the 

 dazzle of ever greater specialization. Many dots of 

 information, now collected in ever increasing volume by 

 development of sophisticated information technologies, 

 get ignored on account of lack of coordination across 

 agencies, and departments, and tendency within 

 bureaucracy to jealously guard their own turfs. In some 

 instances, the failure to properly investigate, or to 

 prevent, unlawful activities could be the result of such 

 over-specialization, frictions in sharing of information, and 

 coordination across departmental and specialized agency 

 boundaries. 17.If the State is soft to a large extent, especially in terms 

 of the unholy nexus between the law makers, the law 

 keepers, and the law breakers, the moral authority, and 

 also the moral incentives, to exercise suitable control over 

 the economy and the society would vanish. Large 

 unaccounted monies are generally an indication of that. In 

 a recent book, Prof. Rotberg states, after evaluating many 

 failed and collapsed states over the past few decades: 1 18.India finds itself in a peculiar situation. Often celebrated, 

 in popular culture, as an emerging economy that is rapidly 

 growing, and expected to be a future economic and 

 political giant on the global stage, it is also popularly 

 perceived, and apparently even in some responsible and 

 scholarly circles, and official quarters, that some of its 

 nationals and other legal entities have stashed the largest 

 quantum of unaccounted monies in foreign banks, 

 especially in tax havens, and in other jurisdictions with 

 strong laws of secrecy. There are also apparently reports, 

 and analyses, generated by Government of India itself, 

1 "The Failure and Collapse of Nation-States - Breakdown, Prevention and Repair" in "WHEN STATES 

FAIL: CAUSES AND CONSEQUENCES", Rotberg, Robert I., Ed. Princeton University Press (2004). 1 which place the amounts of such unaccounted monies at 

 astronomical levels. 19.We do not wish to engage in any speculation as to what 

 such analyses, reports, and factuality imply with respect 

 to the state of the nation. The citizens of our country can 

 make, and ought to be making, rational assessments of 

 the situation. We fervently hope that it leads to 

 responsible, reasoned and reasonable debate, thereby 

 exerting the appropriate democratic pressure on the 

 State, and its agents, within the constitutional framework, 

 to bring about the necessary changes without sacrificing 

 cherished, and inherently invaluable social goals and 

 values enshrined in the Constitution. The failures are 

 discernible when viewed against the vision of the 

 constitutional project, and as forewarned by Dr. 

 Ambedkar, have been on account of the fact that man has 

 been vile, and not the defects of a Constitution forged in 

 the fires of wisdom gathered over eons of human 

 experience. If the politico-bureaucratic, power wielding, 

 and business classes bear a large part of the blame, at 

 least some part of blame ought to be apportioned to those 

 portions of the citizenry that is well informed, or is 

 expected to be informed. Much of that citizenry has 

 disengaged itself with the political process, and with the 

 masses. Informed by contempt for the poor and the 1 downtrodden, the elite classes that have benefited the 

 most, or expects to benefit substantially from the neo-

 liberal policies that would wish away the hordes, has also 

 chosen to forget that constitutional mandate is as much 

 the responsibility of the citizenry, and through their 

 constant vigilance, of all the organs of the state, and 

 national institutions including political parties. To not be 

 engaged in the process, is to ensure the evisceration of 

 constitutional content. Knee jerk reactions, and ill advised 

 tinkering with the constitutional framework are not the 

 solutions. The road is always long, and needs the constant 

 march of the citizenry on it. There is no other way. To 

 expect instant solutions, because this law or that body is 

 formed, without striving to solve system wide, and 

 systemic, problems that have emerged is to not 

 understand the demands of a responsible citizenry in 

 modern constitutional republican democracies. 20.These matters before us relate to issues of large sums of 

 unaccounted monies, allegedly held by certain named 

 individuals, and loose associations of them; consequently 

 we have to express our serious concerns from a 

 constitutional perspective. The amount of unaccounted 

 monies, as alleged by the Government of India itself is 

 massive. The show cause notices were issued a 

 substantial length of time ago. The named individuals 1 were very much present in the country. Yet, for unknown, 

 and possibly unknowable, though easily surmisable, 

 reasons the investigations into the matter proceeded at a 

 laggardly pace. Even the named individuals had not yet 

 been questioned with any degree of seriousness. These 

 are serious lapses, especially when viewed from the 

 perspective of larger issues of security, both internal and 

 external, of the country. 21.It is in light of the above, that we heard some significant 

 elements of the instant writ petitions filed in this Court, 

 and at this stage it is necessary that appropriate orders 

 be issued. There are two issues we deal with below: (i) 

 the appointment of a Special Investigation Team; and (ii) 

 disclosure, to the Petitioners, of certain documents relied 

 upon by the Union of India in its response. II 22.The instant writ petition was filed, in 2009, by Shri. Ram 

 Jethmalani, Shri. Gopal Sharman, Smt. Jalbala Vaidya, 

 Shri. K.P.S. Gill, Prof. B.B. Dutta, and Shri. Subhash 

 Kashyap, all well known professionals, social activists, 

 former bureaucrats or those who have held responsible 

 positions in the society. They have also formed an 

 organization called Citizen India, the stated objective of 2 which is said to be to bring about changes and betterment 

 in the quality of governance, and functioning of all public 

 institutions. 23.The Petitioners state that there have been a slew of 

 reports, in the media, and also in scholarly publications 

 that various individuals, mostly citizens, but may also 

 include non-citizens, and other entities with presence in 

 India, have generated, and secreted away large sums of 

 monies, through their activities in India or relating to 

 India, in various foreign banks, especially in tax havens, 

 and jurisdictions that have strong secrecy laws with 

 respect to the contents of bank accounts and the 

 identities of individuals holding such accounts. The 

 Petitioners allege that most of such monies are 

 unaccounted, and in all probability have been generated 

 through unlawful activities, whether in India or outside 

 India, but relating to India. Further, the Petitioners also 

 allege that a large part of such monies may have been 

 generated within India, and have been taken away from 

 India, breaking various laws, including but not limited to 

 evasion of taxes. 24.The Petitioners contend: (i) that the sheer volume of 

 such monies points to grave weaknesses in the 

 governance of the nation, because they indicate a 

 significant lack of control over unlawful activities through 2 which such monies are generated, evasion of taxes, and 

 use of unlawful means of transfer of funds; (ii) that these 

 funds are then laundered and brought back into India, to 

 be used in both legal and illegal activities; (iii) that the 

 use of various unlawful modes of transfer of funds across 

 borders, gives support to such unlawful networks of 

 international finance; and (iv) that in as much as such 

 unlawful networks are widely acknowledged to also 

 effectuate transfer of funds across borders in aid of 

 various crimes committed against persons and the State, 

 including but not limited to activities that may be 

 classifiable as terrorist, extremist, or unlawful narcotic 

 trade, the prevailing situation also has very serious 

 connotations for the security and integrity of India. 25.The Petitioners also further contend that a significant 

 part of such large unaccounted monies include the monies 

 of powerful persons in India, including leaders of many 

 political parties. It was also contended that the 

 Government of India, and its agencies, have been very 

 lax in terms of keeping an eye on the various unlawful 

 activities generating unaccounted monies, the consequent 

 tax evasion; and that such laxity extends to efforts to 

 curtail the flow of such funds out, and into, India. Further, 

 the Petitioners also contend that the efforts to prosecute 

 the individuals, and other entities, who have secreted 2 such monies in foreign banks, have been weak or non-

 existent. It was strongly argued that the efforts at 

 identification of such monies in various bank accounts in 

 many jurisdictions across the globe, attempts to bring 

 back such monies, and efforts to strengthen the 

 governance framework to prevent further outflows of such 

 funds, have been sorely lacking. 26.The Petitioners also made allegations about certain 

 specific incidents and patterns of dereliction of duty, 

 wherein the Government of India, and its various 

 agencies, even though in possession of specific knowledge 

 about the monies in certain bank accounts, and having 

 estimated that such monies run into many scores of 

 thousands of crores, and upon issuance of show cause 

 notices to the said individual, surprisingly have not 

 proceeded to initiate, and carry out suitable 

 investigations, and prosecute the individuals. The 

 individual specifically named is one Hassan Ali Khan. The 

 Petitioners also contended that Kashinath Tapuria, and his 

 wife Chandrika Tapuria, are also party to the illegal 

 activities of Hassan Ali Khan. 27.Specifically, it was alleged that Hassan Ali Khan was 

 served with an income tax demand for Rs. 40,000.00 

 Crores (Rupees Forty Thousand Crores), and that the 

 Tapurias were served an income tax demand notice of Rs. 2 20,580.00 Crores (Rupees Twenty Thousand and Five 

Hundred and Eighty Crores). The Enforcement 

Directorate, in 2007, disclosed that Hassan Ali Khan had 

"dealings amounting to 1.6 billion US dollars" in the 

period 2001-2005. In January 2007, upon raiding Hassan 

Ali's residence in Pune, certain documents and evidence 

had been discovered regarding deposits of 8.04 billion 

dollars with UBS bank in Zurich. It is the contention of the 

Petitioners that, even though such evidence was secured 

nearly four and half years ago, (i) a proper investigation 

had not been launched to obtain the right facts from 

abroad; (ii) the individuals concerned, though present in 

India, and subject to its jurisdiction, and easily available 

for its exercise, had not even been interrogated 

appropriately; (iii) that the Union of India, and its various 

departments, had even been refusing to divulge the 

details and information that would reveal the actual status 

of the investigation, whether in fact it was being 

conducted at all, or with any degree of seriousness; (iv) 

given the magnitude of amounts in question, especially of 

the demand notice of income tax, the laxity of 

investigation indicates multiple problems of serious non-

governance, and weaknesses in the system, including 

pressure from political quarters to hinder, or scuttle, the 

investigation, prosecution, and ultimately securing the 2 return of such monies; and (v) given the broadly accepted 

 fact that within the political class corruption is rampant, 

 ill-begotten wealth has begun to be amassed in massive 

 quantities by many members in that class, it may be 

 reasonable to suspect, or even conclude, that 

 investigation was being deliberately hindered because 

 Hassan Ali Khan, and the Tapurias, had or were 

 continuing to handle the monies of such a class. The fact 

 that both Income Tax department, and the Enforcement 

 Directorate routinely, and with alacrity, seek the powers 

 for long stretches of custodial interrogation of even those 

 suspected of having engaged in money laundering, or 

 evaded taxes, with respect to very small amounts, ought 

 to raise the reasonable suspicion that inaction in the 

 matters concerning Hassan Ali Khan, and Tapurias, was 

 deliberately engineered, for nefarious reasons. 28.In addition, the Petitioners also state that in as much as 

 the bank in which the monies had been stashed by 

 Hassan Ali Khan was UBS Zurich, the needle of suspicion 

 has to inexorably turn to high level political interference 

 and hindrance to the investigations. The said bank, it was 

 submitted, is the biggest or one of the biggest wealth 

 management companies in the world. The Petitioners also 

 narrated the mode, and the manner, in which the United 

 States had dealt with UBS, with respect to monies of 2 American citizens secreted away with the said bank. It 

 was also alleged that UBS had not cooperated with the 

 U.S. authorities. Contrasting the relative alacrity, and 

 vigour, with which the United States government had 

 pursued the matters, the Petitioners contend the inaction 

 of Union of India is shocking. 29.The Petitioners further allege that in 2007, the Reserve 

 Bank of India had obtained some "knowledge of the 

 dubious character" of UBS Security India Private Limited, 

 a branch of UBS, and consequently stopped this bank 

 from extending its business in India by refusing to 

 approve its takeover of Standard Chartered Mutual Funds 

 business in India. It was also claimed by the Petitioners 

 that the SEBI had alleged that UBS played a role in the 

 stock market crash of 2004. The said UBS Bank has 

 apparently applied for a retail banking license in India, 

 which was approved in principle by RBI initially. In 2008, 

 this license was withheld on the ground that "investigation 

 of its unsavoury role in the Hassan Ali Khan case was 

 pending investigation in the Enforcement Directorate." 

 However, it seems that the RBI reversed its decision in 

 2009, and no good reasons seem to be forthcoming for 

 the reversal of the decision of 2008. 30.The Petitioners contend that such a reversal of decision 

 could only have been accomplished through high level 2 intervention, and that it is further evidence of linkages 

 between members of the political class, and possibly even 

 members of the bureaucracy, and such banking 

 operations, and the illegal activities of Hassan Ali Khan 

 and the Tapurias. Hence, the Petitioners argued, in the 

 circumstances it would have to be necessarily concluded 

 that the investigations into the affairs of Hassan Ali Khan, 

 and the Tapurias, would be severely compromised if the 

 Court does not intervene, and monitor the investigative 

 processes by appointing a special investigation team 

 reporting directly to the Court. 31.The learned senior counsel for the Petitioners sought that 

 this Court intervene, order proper investigations, and 

 monitor continuously, the actions of the Union of India, 

 and any and all governmental departments and agencies, 

 in these matters. It was submitted that their filing of this 

 Writ Petition under Article 32 is proper, as the inaction of 

 the Union of India, as described above, violates the 

 fundamental rights - to proper governance, in as much as Article 14 provides for equality before the law and equal 

 protection of the law, and Article 21 promises dignity of 

 life to all citizens. 32.We have heard the learned senior counsel for the 

 Petitioners, Shri. Anil B. Divan, the learned senior 

 counsel for interveners, Shri. K.K. Venugopal, and the 2 learned senior counsel for the petitioners in the connected 

 Writ Petition, Shri. Shanti Bhushan. We have also heard 

 the learned Solicitor General, Shri. Gopal Subramaniam, 

 on behalf of the respondents. 33.Shri. Divan, specifically argued that, having regard to the 

 nature of the investigation, its slow pace so far, and the 

 non-seriousness on the part of the respondents, there is a 

 need to constitute a Special Investigation Team ("SIT") 

 headed by a former judge or two of this court. However, 

 this particular plea has been vociferously resisted by the 

 Solicitor General. Relying on the status reports submitted 

 from time to time, the learned Solicitor General stated 

 that all possible steps were being taken to bring back the 

 monies stashed in foreign banks, and that the 

 investigations in cases registered were proceeding in an 

 appropriate manner. He expressed his willingness for a 

 Court monitored investigation. He also further submitted 

 that the Respondents, in principle, have no objections 

 whatsoever against the main submissions of the 

 Petitioners. 34.The real point of controversy is, given above, as to 

 whether there is a need to constitute a SIT to be headed 

 by a judge or two, of this court, to supervise the 

 investigation. 2 35.We must express our serious reservations about the 

 responses of the Union of India. In the first instance, 

 during the earlier phases of hearing before us, the 

 attempts were clearly evasive, confused, or originating in 

 the denial mode. It was only upon being repeatedly 

 pressed by us did the Union of India begin to admit that 

 indeed the investigation was proceeding very slowly. It 

 also became clear to us that in fact the investigation had 

 completely stalled, in as much as custodial interrogation 

 of Hassan Ali Khan had not even been sought for, even 

 though he was very much resident in India. Further, it 

 also now appears that even though his passport had been 

 impounded, he was able to secure another passport from 

 the RPO in Patna, possibly with the help or aid of a 

 politician. 36.During the course of the hearings the Union of India 

 repeatedly insisted that the matter involves many 

 jurisdictions, across the globe, and a proper investigation 

 could be accomplished only through the concerted efforts 

 by different law enforcement agencies, both within the 

 Central Government, and also various State governments. 

 However, the absence of any satisfactory explanation of 

 the slowness of the pace of investigation, and lack of any 

 credible answers as to why the respondents did not act 

 with respect to those actions that were feasible, and 2 within the ambit of powers of the Enforcement Directorate 

itself, such as custodial investigation, leads us to conclude 

that the lack of seriousness in the efforts of the 

respondents are contrary to the requirements of laws and 

constitutional obligations of the Union of India. It was only 

upon the insistence and intervention of this Court has the 

Enforcement Directorate initiated and secured custodial 

interrogation over Hassan Ali Khan. The Union of India 

has explicitly acknowledged that there was much to be 

desired with the manner in which the investigation had 

proceeded prior to the intervention of this court. From the 

more recent reports, it would appear that the Union of 

India, on account of its more recent efforts to conduct the 

investigation with seriousness, on account of the gravitas 

brought by this Court, has led to the securing of 

additional information, and leads, which could aid in 

further investigation. For instance, during the continuing 

interrogation of Hassan Ali Khan and the Tapurias, 

undertaken for the first time at the behest of this Court, 

many names of important persons, including leaders of 

some corporate giants, politically powerful people, and 

international arms dealers have cropped up. So far, no 

significant attempt has been made to investigate and 

verify the same. This is a further cause for the grave 

concerns of this Court, and points to the need for 3 continued, effective and day to day monitoring by a SIT 

 constituted by this Court, and acting on behalf, behest 

 and direction of this Court. 37.In light of the fact that the issues are complex, requiring 

 expertise and knowledge of different departments, and 

 the necessity of coordination of efforts across various 

 agencies and departments, it was submitted to us that the 

 Union of India has recently formed a High Level 

 Committee, under the aegis of the Department of 

 Revenue in the Ministry of Finance, which is the nodal 

 agency responsible for all economic offences. The 

 composition of the High Level Committee ("HLC") is said 

 to be as follows: (i) Secretary, Department of Revenue, 

 as the Chairman; (ii) Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank of 

 India; (iii) Director (IB); (iv) Director, Enforcement; (v) 

 Director, CBI; (vi) Chairman, CBDT; (vii) DG, Narcotics 

 Control Bureau; (vii) DG, Revenue Intelligence; (ix) 

 Director, Financial Intelligence Unit; and (x) JS (FT & TR-

 I), CBDT. It was also submitted that the HLC may co-opt, 

 as necessary, representation not below the rank of Joint 

 Secretary from the Home Secretary, Foreign Secretary, 

 Defense Secretary and the Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat. 

 The Union of India claims that such a multi-disciplinary 

 group and committee would now enable the conducting of 

 an efficient and a systematic investigation into the 3 matters concerning allegations against Hassan Ali Khan 

 and the Tapurias; and further that such a committee 

 would also enable the taking of appropriate steps to bring 

 back the monies stashed in foreign banks, for which 

 purposes a need may arise to register further cases. The 

 Union of India also claims that the formation of such a 

 committee indicates the seriousness with which it is 

 viewing the entire matter. 38.While it would appear, from the Status Reports 

 submitted to this Court, that the Enforcement Directorate 

 has moved in some small measure, the actual facts are 

 not comforting to an appropriate extent. In fact we are 

 not convinced that the situation has changed to the 

 extent that it ought to so as to accept that the 

 investigation would now be conducted with the degree of 

 seriousness that is warranted. According to the Union of 

 India the HLC was formed in order to take charge of and 

 direct the entire investigation, and subsequently, the 

 prosecution. In the meanwhile a charge sheet has been 

 filed against Hassan Ali Khan. Upon inquiry by us as to 

 whether the charge-sheet had been vetted by the HLC, 

 and its inputs secured, the counsel for Union of India were 

 flummoxed. The fact was that the charge-sheet had not 

 been given even for the perusal of the HLC, let alone 

 securing its inputs, guidance and direction. We are not 3 satisfied by the explanation offered by the Directorate of 

 Enforcement by way of affidavit after the orders were 

 reserved. Be it noted that a nodal agency was set up, 

 pursuant to directions of this Court in Vineet Narain case 

 given many years ago. Yet the same was not involved and 

 these matters were never placed before it. Why? 39.From the status reports, it is clear that the problem is 

 extremely complex, and many agencies and departments 

 spread across the country have not responded with the 

 alacrity, and urgency, that one would desire. Moreover, 

 the Union of India has been unable to answer any of the 

 questions regarding its past actions, and their 

 implications, such as the slowness of the investigation, or 

 about grant of license to conduct retail banking by UBS, 

 by reversing the decision taken earlier to withhold such a 

 license on the grounds that the said bank's credentials 

 were suspect. To this latter query, the stance of the Union 

 of India has been that entry of UBS would facilitate flow of 

 foreign investments into India. The question that arises is 

 whether the task of bringing foreign funds into India 

 override all other constitutional concerns and obligations? 40.The predominant theme in the responses of Union of 

 India before this court has been that it is doing all that it 

 can to bring back the unaccounted monies stashed in 

 various banks abroad. To this is added the qualifier that it 3 is an extremely complex problem, requiring the 

 cooperation of many different jurisdictions, and an 

 internationally coordinated effort. Indeed they are 

 complex. We do not wish to go into the details of 

 arguments about whether the Union of India is, or is not, 

 doing necessary things to achieve such goals. That is not 

 necessary for the matters at hand. 41.What is important is that the Union of India had obtained 

 knowledge, documents and information that indicated 

 possible connections between Hassan Ali Khan, and his 

 alleged co-conspirators and known international arms 

 dealers. Further, the Union of India was also in possession 

 of information that suggested that because the 

 international arms dealing network, and a very prominent 

 dealer in it, could not open a bank account even in a 

 jurisdiction that is generally acknowledged to lay great 

 emphasis on not asking sources of money being deposited 

 into its banks, Hassan Ali Khan may have played a crucial 

 role in opening an account with the branch of the same 

 bank in another jurisdiction. The volume of alleged 

 income taxes owed to the country, as demanded by the 

 Union of India itself, and the volume of monies, by some 

 accounts US $8.04 billion, and some other accounts in 

 excess of Rs. 70,000 crores, that are said to have been 

 routed through various bank accounts of Hassan Ali Khan, 3 and Tapurias. Further, from all accounts it has been 

 acknowledged that none of the named individuals have 

 any known and lawful sources for such huge quantities of 

 monies. All of these factors, either individually or 

 combined, ought to have immediately raised questions 

 regarding the sources being unlawful activities, national 

 security, and transfer of funds into India for other illegal 

 activities, including acts against the State. It was only at 

 the repeated insistence by us that such matters have 

 equal, if not even greater importance than issues of tax 

 collection, has the Union of India belatedly concluded that 

 such aspects also ought to be investigated with 

 thoroughness. However, there is still no evidence of a 

 really serious investigation into these other matters from 

 the national security perspective. 42.The fact remains that the Union of India has struggled in 

 conducting a proper investigation into the affairs of 

 Hassan Ali Khan and the Tapurias. While some individuals, 

 whose names have come to the adverse knowledge of the 

 Union of India, through the more recent investigations, 

 have been interrogated, many more are yet to be 

 investigated. This highly complex investigation has in fact 

 just begun. It is still too early to conclude that the Union 

 of India has indeed placed all the necessary machinery to 

 conduct a proper investigation. The formation of the HLC 3 was a necessary step, and may even be characterized as 

 a welcome step. Nevertheless, it is an insufficient step. 43.In light of the above, we had proposed to the Union of 

 India that the same HLC constituted by it be converted 

 into a Special Investigation Team, headed by two retired 

 judges of the Supreme Court of India. The Union of India 

 opposes the same, but provides no principle as to why 

 that would be undesirable, especially in light of the many 

 lapses and lacunae in its actions in these matters spread 

 over the past four years. 44.We are of the firm opinion that in these matters 

 fragmentation of government, and expertise and 

 knowledge, across many departments, agencies and 

 across various jurisdictions, both within the country, and 

 across the globe, is a serious impediment to the conduct 

 of a proper investigation. We hold that it is in fact 

 necessary to create a body that coordinates, directs, and 

 where necessary orders timely and urgent action by 

 various institutions of the State. We also hold that the 

 continued involvement of this Court in these matters, in a 

 broad oversight capacity, is necessary for upholding the 

 rule of law, and achievement of constitutional values. 

 However, it would be impossible for this Court to be 

 involved in day to day investigations, or to constantly 

 monitor each and every aspect of the investigation. 3 45.The resources of this court are scarce, and it is over-

 burdened with the task of rendering justice in well over a 

 lakh of cases every year. Nevertheless, this Court is 

 bound to uphold the Constitution, and its own burdens, 

 excessive as they already are, cannot become an excuse 

 for it to not perform that task. In a country where most of 

 its people are uneducated and illiterate, suffering from 

 hunger and squalor, the retraction of the monitoring of 

 these matters by this Court would be unconscionable. 46.The issue is not merely whether the Union of India is 

 making the necessary effort to bring back all or some 

 significant part of the alleged monies. The fact that there 

 is some information and knowledge that such vast 

 amounts may have been stashed away in foreign banks, 

 implies that the State has the primordial responsibility, 

 under the Constitution, to make every effort to trace the 

 sources of such monies, punish the guilty where such 

 monies have been generated and/or taken abroad 

 through unlawful activities, and bring back the monies 

 owed to the Country. We do recognize that the degree of 

 success, measured in terms of the amounts of monies 

 brought back, is dependent on a number of factors, 

 including aspects that relate to international political 

 economy and relations, which may or may not be under 

 our control. The fact remains that with respect to those 3 factors that were within the powers of the Union of India, 

 such as investigation of possible criminal nexus, threats to 

 national security etc., were not even attempted. Fealty to 

 the Constitution is not a matter of mere material success; 

 but, and probably more importantly from the perspective 

 of the moral authority of the State, a matter of integrity 

 of effort on all the dimensions that inform a problem that 

 threatens the constitutional projects. Further, the degree 

 of seriousness with which efforts are made with respect to 

 those various dimensions can also be expected to bear 

 fruit in terms of building capacities, and the development 

 of necessary attitudes to take the law enforcement part of 

 accounting or following the money seriously in the future. 47.The merits of vigour of investigations, and attempts at 

 law enforcement, cannot be measured merely on the 

 scale of what we accomplish with respect to what has 

 happened in the past. It would necessarily also have to be 

 appreciated from the benefits that are likely to accrue to 

 the country in preventing such activities in the future. Our 

 people may be poor, and may be suffering from all 

 manner of deprivation. However, the same poor and 

 suffering masses are rich, morally and from a humanistic 

 point of view. Their forbearance of the many foibles and 

 failures of those who wield power, no less in their name 

 and behalf than of the rich and the empowered, is itself 3 indicative of their great qualities, of humanity, trust and 

 tolerance. That greatness can only be matched by 

 exercise of every sinew, and every resource, in the broad 

 goal of our constitutional project of bringing to their lives 

 dignity. The efforts that this Court makes in this regard, 

 and will make in this respect and these matters, can only 

 be conceived as a small and minor, though nevertheless 

 necessary, part. Ultimately the protection of the 

 Constitution and striving to promote its vision and values 

 is an elemental mode of service to our people. 48. We note that in many instances, in the past, when issues 

 referred to the Court have been very complex in nature, 

 and yet required the intervention of the Court, Special 

 Investigation Teams have been ordered and constituted in 

 order to enable the Court, and the Union of India and/or 

 other organs of the State, to fulfill their constitutional 

 obligations. The following instances may be noted: Vineet 

 Narain v Union of India2 , NHRC v State of Gujarat3, Sanjiv 

 Kumar v State of Haryana4 , and Centre for PIL v Union of 

 India5 . 49.In light of the above we herewith order: Department of Revenue; (ii) Deputy Governor, 

 Reserve Bank of India; (iii) Director (IB); (iv) 

 Director, Enforcement; (v) Director, CBI; (vi) 

 Chairman, CBDT; (vii) DG, Narcotics Control 

 Bureau; (vii) DG, Revenue Intelligence; (ix) 

 Director, Financial Intelligence Unit; and (x) JS 

 (FT & TR-I), CBDT be forthwith appointed with 

 immediate effect as a Special Investigation 

 Team; (ii) That the Special Investigation Team, so 

 constituted, also include Director, Research and 

 Analysis Wing; (iii) That the above Special Investigation Team, so 

 constituted, be headed by and include the 

 following former eminent judges of this Court: 50.We accordingly direct the Union of India to issue 

 appropriate notification and publish the same forthwith. It 

 is needless to clarify that the former judges of this Court 

 so appointed to supervise the Special Investigation Team 

 are entitled to their remuneration, allowances, perks, 

 facilities as that of the judges of the Supreme Court. The 

 Ministry of Finance, Union of India, shall be responsible 4 for creating the appropriate infrastructure and other 

 facilities for proper and effective functioning of the Special 

 Investigation Team at once. III 51.We now turn our attention to the matter of disclosure of 

 various documents referenced by the Union of India, as 

 sought by the Petitioners. These documents, including 

 names and bank particulars, relate to various bank 

 accounts, of Indian citizens, in the Principality of 

 Liechtenstein ("Liechtenstein"), a small landlocked 

 sovereign nation-state in Europe. It is generally 

 acknowledged that Liechtenstein is a tax haven. 52.Apparently, as alleged by the Petitioners, a former 

 employee of a bank or banks in Liechtenstein secured the 

 names of some 1400 bank account holders, along with the 

 particulars of such accounts, and offered the information 

 to various entities. The same was secured by the Federal 

 Republic of Germany ("Germany"), which in turn, apart 

 from initiating tax proceedings against some 600 

 individuals, also offered the information regarding 

 nationals and citizens of other countries to such countries. 

 It is the contention of the Petitioners that even though the 

 Union of India was informed about the presence of the 

 names of a large number of Indian citizens in the list of 4 names revealed by the former bank employee, the Union 

 of India never made a serious attempt to secure such 

 information and proceed to investigate such individuals. It 

 is the contention of the Petitioners that such names 

 include the identities of prominent and powerful Indians, 

 or the identities of individuals, who may or may not be 

 Indian citizens, but who could lead to information about 

 various powerful Indians holding unaccounted monies in 

 bank accounts abroad. It is also the contention of the 

 Petitioners that, even though they had sought the 

 information under the Right to Information Act (2005), 

 the Respondents had not revealed the names nor divulged 

 the relevant documents. The Petitioners argue that such a 

 reluctance is only on account of the Union of India not 

 having initiated suitable steps to recover such monies, 

 and punish the named individuals, and also because 

 revelation of names of individuals on the list would lead to 

 discovery of powerful persons engaged in various unlawful 

 activities, both in generation of unlawful and unaccounted 

 monies, and their stashing away in banks abroad. 53.It was also alleged by the Petitioners that in fact 

 Germany had offered such information, freely and 

 generally to any country that requests the same, and did 

 not specify that the names and other information 

 pertaining to such names ought to be requested only 4 pursuant to any double taxation agreements it has with 

 other countries. The Petitioners also alleged that Union of 

 India has chosen to proceed under the assumption that it 

 could have requested such information only pursuant to 

 the double taxation agreement it has with Germany. The 

 Petitioners contend that the Government of India took 

 such a step primarily to conceal the information from 

 public gaze. 54.The response of the Union of India may be summed up 

 briefly: (i) that they secured the names of individuals with 

 bank accounts in banks in Liechtenstein, and other details 

 with respect to such bank accounts, pursuant to an 

 agreement of India with Germany for avoidance of double 

 taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion; (ii) that the said 

 agreement proscribes the Union of India from disclosing 

 such names, and other documents and information with 

 respect to such bank accounts, to the Petitioners, even in 

 the context of these ongoing proceedings before this 

 court; (iii) that the disclosure of such names, and other 

 documents and information, secured from Germany, 

 would jeopardize the relations of India with a foreign 

 state; (iv) that the disclosure of such names, and other 

 documents and information, would violate the right to 

 privacy of those individuals who may have only deposited 

 monies in a lawful manner; (v) that disclosure of names, 4 and other documents and information can be made with 

 respect to those individuals with regard to whom 

 investigations are completed, and proceedings initiated; 

 and (vi) that contrary to assertions by the Petitioners, it 

 was Germany which had asked the Union of India to seek 

 the information under double taxation agreement, and 

 that this was in response to an earlier request by Union of 

 India for the said information. 55.For the purposes of the instant order, the issue of 

 whether the Union of India could have sought and secured 

 the names, and other documents and information, without 

 having to take recourse to the double taxation agreement 

 is not relevant. For the purposes of determining whether 

 Union of India is obligated to disclose the information that 

 it obtained, from Germany, with respect to accounts of 

 Indian citizens in a bank in the Principality of 

 Liechtenstein, we need only examine the claims of the 

 Union of India as to whether it is proscribed by the double 

 taxation agreement with Germany from disclosing such 

 information. Further, and most importantly, we would also 

 have to examine whether in the context of Article 32 proceedings before this court, wherein this court has 

 exercised jurisdiction, the Union of India can claim 

 exemption from providing such information to the 

 Petitioners, and also with respect to issues of right to 4 privacy of individuals who hold such accounts, and with 

 respect of whom no investigations have yet been 

 commenced, or only partially conducted, so that the State 

 has not yet issued a show cause and initiated 

 proceedings. 56.We have perused the said agreement with Germany. We 

 are convinced that the said agreement, by itself, does not 

 proscribe the disclosure of the relevant documents and 

 details of the same, including the names of various bank 

 account holders in Liechtenstein. In the first instance, we 

 note that the names of the individuals are with respect to 

 bank accounts in the Liechtenstein, which though 

 populated by largely German speaking people, is an 

 independent and sovereign nation-state. The agreement 

 between Germany and India is with regard to various 

 issues that crop up with respect to German and Indian 

 citizens' liability to pay taxes to Germany and/or India. It 

 does not even remotely touch upon information regarding 

 Indian citizens' bank accounts in Liechtenstein that 

 Germany secures and shares that have no bearing upon 

 the matters that are covered by the double taxation 

 agreement between the two countries. In fact, the 

 "information" that is referred to in Article 26 is that which 

 is "necessary for carrying out the purposes of this 

 agreement", i.e. the Indo-German DTAA. Therefore, the 4 information sought does not fall within the ambit of this 

 provision. It is disingenuous for the Union of India, under 

 these circumstances, to repeatedly claim that it is unable 

 to reveal the documents and names as sought by the 

 Petitioners on the ground that the same is proscribed by 

 the said agreement. It does not matter that Germany 

 itself may have asked India to treat the information 

 shared as being subject to the confidentiality and secrecy 

 clause of the double taxation agreement. It is for the 

 Union of India, and the courts, in appropriate 

 proceedings, to determine whether such information 

 concerns matters that are covered by the double taxation 

 agreement or not. In any event, we also proceed to 

 examine the provisions of the double taxation agreement 

 below, to also examine whether they proscribe the 

 disclosure of such names, and other documents and 

 information, even in the context of these instant 

 proceedings. 57.Relevant portions of Article 26 of the double taxation 

 agreement with Germany, a copy of which was submitted 

 by Union of India, reads as follows: 58.The above clause in the relevant agreement with 

 Germany would indicate that, contrary to the assertions of 

 Union of India, there is no absolute bar of secrecy. 

 Instead the agreement specifically provides that the 

 information may be disclosed in public court proceedings, 5 which the instant proceedings are. The proceedings in this 

 matter before this court, relate both to the issue of tax 

 collection with respect to unaccounted monies deposited 

 into foreign bank accounts, as well as with issues relating 

 to the manner in which such monies were generated, 

 which may include activities that are criminal in nature 

 also. Comity of nations cannot be predicated upon clauses 

 of secrecy that could hinder constitutional proceedings 

 such as these, or criminal proceedings. 59.The claim of Union of India is that the phrase "public 

 court proceedings", in the last sentence in Article 26(1) of 

 the double taxation agreement only relates to proceedings 

 relating to tax matters. The Union of India claims that 

 such an understanding comports with how it is understood 

 internationally. In this regard Union of India cites a few 

 treatises. However, the Union of India did not provide any 

 evidence that Germany specifically requested it to not 

 reveal the details with respect to accounts in the 

 Liechtenstein even in the context of proceedings before 

 this court. 60.Article 31, "General Rule of Interpretation", of the Vienna 

 Convention of the Law of Treaties, 1969 provides that a 

 "treaty shall be interpreted in good faith in accordance 

 with the ordinary meaning to be given to the terms of the 

 treaty in their context and in the light of its object and 5 purpose." While India is not a party to the Vienna 

 Convention, it contains many principles of customary 

 international law, and the principle of interpretation, of Article 31 of the Vienna Convention, provides a broad 

 guideline as to what could be an appropriate manner of 

 interpreting a treaty in the Indian context also. 61. This Court in Union of India v. Azadi Bachao Andolan,6 approvingly noted Frank Bennion's observations that a 

 treaty is really an indirect enactment, instead of a 

 substantive legislation, and that drafting of treaties is 

 notoriously sloppy, whereby inconveniences obtain. In this 

 regard this Court further noted the dictum of Lord 

 Widgery, C.J. that the words "are to be given their 

 general meaning, general to lawyer and layman alike.... 

 The meaning of the diplomat rather than the lawyer." The 

 broad principle of interpretation, with respect to treaties, 

 and provisions therein, would be that ordinary meanings 

 of words be given effect to, unless the context requires or 

 otherwise. However, the fact that such treaties are 

 drafted by diplomats, and not lawyers, leading to 

 sloppiness in drafting also implies that care has to be 

 taken to not render any word, phrase, or sentence 

 redundant, especially where rendering of such word, 

 phrase or sentence redundant would lead to a manifestly 

 absurd situation, particularly from a constitutional 

6 (2004) 10 SCC 1 5 perspective. The government cannot bind India in a 

 manner that derogates from Constitutional provisions, 

 values and imperatives. 62.The last sentence of Article 26(1) of the double taxation 

 agreement with Germany, "[T]hey may disclose this 

 information in public court proceedings or in judicial 

 decisions," is revelatory in this regard. It stands out as an 

 additional aspect or provision, and an exception, to the 

 preceding portion of the said article. It is located after the 

 specification that information shared between contracting 

 parties may be revealed only to "persons or authorities 

 (including courts and administrative bodies) involved in 

 the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or 

 prosecution in respect of, or the determination of appeals 

 in relation to taxes covered by this Agreement." 

 Consequently, it has to be understood that the phrase 

 "public court proceedings" specified in the last sentence in Article 26(1) of the double taxation agreement with 

 Germany refers to court proceedings other than those in 

 connection with tax assessment, enforcement, 

 prosecution etc., with respect to tax matters. If it were 

 otherwise, as argued by Union of India, then there would 

 have been no need to have that last sentence in Article 

 26(1) of the double taxation agreement at all. The last 

 sentence would become redundant if the interpretation 5 pressed by Union of India is accepted. Thus, 

 notwithstanding the alleged convention of interpreting the 

 last sentence only as referring to proceedings in tax 

 matters, the rubric of common law jurisprudence, and 

 fealty to its principles, leads us inexorably to the 

 conclusion that the language in this specific treaty, and 

 under these circumstances cannot be interpreted in the 

 manner sought by Union of India. 63.While we agree that the language could have been 

 tighter, and may be deemed to be sloppy, to use Frank 

 Bennion's characterization, negotiation of such treaties 

 are conducted and secured at very high levels of 

 government, with awareness of general principles of 

 interpretation used in various jurisdictions. It is fairly well 

 known, at least in Common Law jurisdictions, that legal 

 instruments and statutes are interpreted in a manner 

 whereby redundancy of expressions and phrases is sought 

 to be avoided. Germany would have been well aware of it. 64.The redundancy that would have to be ascribed to the 

 said last sentence of Article 26(1) of the double taxation 

 agreement with Germany, if the position of Union of India 

 were to be accepted, also leads to a manifest absurdity, in 

 the context of the Indian Constitution. Such a redundancy 

 would mean that constitutional imperatives themselves 

 are to be set aside. Modern constitutionalism, to which 5 Germany is a major contributor too, especially in terms of 

 the basic structure doctrine, specifies that powers vested 

 in any organ of the State have to be exercised within the 

 four corners of the Constitution, and further that organs 

 created by a constitution cannot change the identity of 

 the constitution itself. 65. The basic structure of the Constitution cannot be 

 amended even by the amending power of the legislature. 

 Our Constitution guarantees the right, pursuant to Clause 

 (1) of Article 32 , to petition this Court on the ground that 

 the rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution 

 have been violated. This provision is a part of the basic 

 structure of the Constitution. Clause (2) of Article 32 empowers this Court to issue "directions or orders or 

 writs, including writs in the nature of habeas corpus, 

 mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto and certiorari, 

 whichever may be appropriate for the enforcement of any 

 of the rights conferred by" Part III. This is also a part of 

 the basic structure of the Constitution. 66.In order that the right guaranteed by Clause (1) of Article 32 be meaningful, and particularly because such 

 petitions seek the protection of fundamental rights, it is 

 imperative that in such proceedings the petitioners are 

 not denied the information necessary for them to properly 

 articulate the case and be heard, especially where such 5 information is in the possession of the State. To deny 

 access to such information, without citing any 

 constitutional principle or enumerated grounds of 

 constitutional prohibition, would be to thwart the right 

 granted by Clause (1) of Article 32. 67.Further, in as much as, by history and tradition of 

 common law, judicial proceedings are substantively, 

 though not necessarily fully, adversarial, both parties bear 

 the responsibility of placing all the relevant information, 

 analyses, and facts before this court as completely as 

 possible. In most situations, it is the State which may 

 have more comprehensive information that is relevant to 

 the matters at hand in such proceedings. However, some 

 agents of the State may perceive that because these 

 proceedings are adversarial in nature, the duty and 

 burden to furnish all the necessary information rests upon 

 the Petitioners, and hence the State has no obligation to 

 fully furnish such information. Some agents of the State 

 may also seek to cast the events and facts in a light that 

 is favourable to the government in the immediate context 

 of the proceedings, even though such actions do not lead 

 to rendering of complete justice in the task of protection 

 of fundamental rights. To that extent, both the petitioners 

 and this Court would be handicapped in proceedings 

 under Clause (1) of Article 32. 5 68.It is necessary for us to note that the burden of 

 asserting, and proving, by relevant evidence a claim in 

 judicial proceedings would ordinarily be placed upon the 

 proponent of such a claim; however, the burden of 

 protection of fundamental rights is primarily the duty of 

 the State. Consequently, unless constitutional grounds 

 exist, the State may not act in a manner that hinders this 

 Court from rendering complete justice in such 

 proceedings. Withholding of information from the 

 petitioners, or seeking to cast the relevant events and 

 facts in a light favourable to the State in the context of 

 the proceedings, even though ultimately detrimental to 

 the essential task of protecting fundamental rights, would 

 be destructive to the guarantee in Clause (1) of Article 32 , 

 and substantially eviscerate the capacity of this Court in 

 exercising its powers contained in clause (2) of Article 32 , 

 and those traceable to other provisions of the Constitution 

 and broader jurisprudence of constitutionalism, in 

 upholding fundamental rights enshrined in Part III. In the 

 task of upholding of fundamental rights, the State cannot 

 be an adversary. The State has the duty, generally, to 

 reveal all the facts and information in its possession to the 

 Court, and also provide the same to the petitioners. This 

 is so, because the petitioners would also then be enabled 

 to bring to light facts and the law that may be relevant for 5 the Court in rendering its decision. In proceedings such as 

 those under Article 32 , both the petitioner and the State, 

 have to necessarily be the eyes and ears of the Court. 

 Blinding the petitioner would substantially detract from 

 the integrity of the process of judicial decision making in Article 32 proceedings, especially where the issue is of 

 upholding of fundamental rights. 69.Furthermore, we hold that there is a special relationship 

 between Clause (1) of Article 32 and Sub-Clause (a) of 

 Clause (1) of Article 19 , which guarantees citizens the 

 freedom of speech and expression. The very genesis, and 

 the normative desirability of such a freedom, lies in 

 historical experiences of the entire humanity: unless 

 accountable, the State would turn tyrannical. A 

 proceeding under Clause (1) of Article 32 , and invocation 

 of the powers granted by Clause (2) of Article 32 , is a 

 primordial constitutional feature of ensuring such 

 accountability. The very promise, and existence, of a 

 constitutional democracy rests substantially on such 

 proceedings. 70.Withholding of information from the petitioners by the 

 State, thereby constraining their freedom of speech and 

 expression before this Court, may be premised only on 

 the exceptions carved out, in Clause (2) of Article 19 , "in 

 the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India, security 5 of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public 

 order, decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of 

 court, defamation or incitement to an offence" or by law 

 that demarcate exceptions, provided that such a law 

 comports with the enumerated grounds in Clause (2) of Article 19 , or that may be provided for elsewhere in the 

 Constitution. 71.It is now a well recognized proposition that we are 

 increasingly being entwined in a global network of events 

 and social action. Considerable care has to be exercised in 

 this process, particularly where governments which come 

 into being on account of a constitutive document, enter 

 into treaties. The actions of governments can only be 

 lawful when exercised within the four corners of 

 constitutional permissibility. No treaty can be entered 

 into, or interpreted, such that constitutional fealty is 

 derogated from. The redundancy, that the Union of India 

 presses, with respect to the last sentence of Article 26(1) of the double taxation agreement with Germany, 

 necessarily transgresses upon the boundaries erected by 

 our Constitution. It cannot be permitted. 72.We have perused the documents in question, and heard 

 the arguments of Union of India with respect to the 

 double taxation agreement with Germany as an obstacle 

 to disclosure. We do not find merit in its arguments 5 flowing from the provisions of double taxation agreement 

 with Germany. However, one major constitutional issue, 

 and concern remains. This is with regard to whether the 

 names of individuals, and details of their bank accounts, 

 with respect to whom there has been no completed 

 investigations that reveal wrong doing and proceedings 

 initiated, and there is no other credible information and 

 evidence currently available with the Petitioners that there 

 has been any wrong doing, may be disclosed to the 

 Petitioners. 73.Right to privacy is an integral part of right to life. This is 

 a cherished constitutional value, and it is important that 

 human beings be allowed domains of freedom that are 

 free of public scrutiny unless they act in an unlawful 

 manner. We understand and appreciate the fact that the 

 situation with respect to unaccounted monies is extremely 

 grave. Nevertheless, as constitutional adjudicators we 

 always have to be mindful of preserving the sanctity of 

 constitutional values, and hasty steps that derogate from 

 fundamental rights, whether urged by governments or 

 private citizens, howsoever well meaning they may be, 

 have to be necessarily very carefully scrutinised. The 

 solution for the problem of abrogation of one zone of 

 constitutional values cannot be the creation of another 

 zone of abrogation of constitutional values. The rights of 6 citizens, to effectively seek the protection of fundamental 

 rights, under Clause (1) of Article 32 have to be balanced 

 against the rights of citizens and persons under Article 21. The latter cannot be sacrificed on the anvil of fervid desire 

 to find instantaneous solutions to systemic problems such 

 as unaccounted monies, for it would lead to dangerous 

 circumstances, in which vigilante investigations, 

 inquisitions and rabble rousing, by masses of other 

 citizens could become the order of the day. The right of 

 citizens to petition this Court for upholding of fundamental 

 rights is granted in order that citizens, inter-alia, are ever 

 vigilant about the functioning of the State in order to 

 protect the constitutional project. That right cannot be 

 extended to being inquisitors of fellow citizens. An 

 inquisitorial order, where citizens' fundamental right to 

 privacy is breached by fellow citizens is destructive of 

 social order. The notion of fundamental rights, such as a 

 right to privacy as part of right to life, is not merely that 

 the State is enjoined from derogating from them. It also 

 includes the responsibility of the State to uphold them 

 against the actions of others in the society, even in the 

 context of exercise of fundamental rights by those others. 74.An argument can be made that this Court can make 

 exceptions under the peculiar circumstances of this case, 

 wherein the State has acknowledged that it has not acted 6 with the requisite speed and vigour in the case of large 

 volumes of suspected unaccounted monies of certain 

 individuals. There is an inherent danger in making 

 exceptions to fundamental principles and rights on the fly. 

 Those exceptions, bit by bit, would then eviscerate the 

 content of the main right itself. Undesirable lapses in 

 upholding of fundamental rights by the legislature, or the 

 executive, can be rectified by assertion of constitutional 

 principles by this Court. However, a decision by this Court 

 that an exception could be carved out remains 

 permanently as a part of judicial canon, and becomes a 

 part of the constitutional interpretation itself. It can be 

 used in the future in a manner and form that may far 

 exceed what this Court intended or what the 

 Constitutional text and values can bear. We are not 

 proposing that Constitutions cannot be interpreted in a 

 manner that allows the nation-state to tackle the 

 problems it faces. The principle is that exceptions cannot 

 be carved out willy-nilly, and without forethought as to 

 the damage they may cause. 75.One of the chief dangers of making exceptions to 

 principles that have become a part of constitutional law, 

 through aeons of human experience, is that the logic, and 

 ease of seeing exceptions, would become entrenched as a 

 part of the constitutional order. Such logic would then 6 lead to seeking exceptions, from protective walls of all 

 fundamental rights, on grounds of expediency and claims 

 that there are no solutions to problems that the society is 

 confronting without the evisceration of fundamental 

 rights. That same logic could then be used by the State in 

 demanding exceptions to a slew of other fundamental 

 rights, leading to violation of human rights of citizens on a 

 massive scale. 76.It is indeed true that the information shared by 

 Germany, with regard to certain bank accounts in 

 Liechtenstein, also contains names of individuals who 

 appear to be Indians. The Petitioners have also claimed 

 that names of all the individuals have been made public 

 by certain segments of the media. However, while some 

 of the accounts, and the individuals holding those 

 accounts, are claimed to have been investigated, others 

 have not been. No conclusion can be drawn as to whether 

 those who have not been investigated, or only partially 

 investigated and proceedings not initiated have 

 committed any wrong doing. There is no presumption that 

 every account holder in banks of Liechtenstein has acted 

 unlawfully. In these circumstances, it would be 

 inappropriate for this Court to order the disclosure of such 

 names, even in the context of proceedings under Clause 

 (1) of Article 32. 6 77.The revelation of details of bank accounts of individuals, 

 without establishment of prima facie grounds to accuse 

 them of wrong doing, would be a violation of their rights 

 to privacy. Details of bank accounts can be used by those 

 who want to harass, or otherwise cause damage, to 

 individuals. We cannot remain blind to such possibilities, 

 and indeed experience reveals that public dissemination 

 of banking details, or availability to unauthorized persons, 

 has led to abuse. The mere fact that a citizen has a bank 

 account in a bank located in a particular jurisdiction 

 cannot be a ground for revelation of details of his or her 

 account that the State has acquired. Innocent citizens, 

 including those actively working towards the betterment 

 of the society and the nation, could fall prey to the 

 machinations of those who might wish to damage the 

 prospects of smooth functioning of society. Whether the 

 State itself can access details of citizens bank accounts is 

 a separate matter. However, the State cannot compel 

 citizens to reveal, or itself reveal details of their bank 

 accounts to the public at large, either to receive benefits 

 from the State or to facilitate investigations, and 

 prosecutions of such individuals, unless the State itself 

 has, through properly conducted investigations, within the 

 four corners of constitutional permissibility, been able to 

 establish prima facie grounds to accuse the individuals of 6 wrong doing. It is only after the State has been able to 

 arrive at a prima facie conclusion of wrong doing, based 

 on material evidence, would the rights of others in the 

 nation to be informed, enter the picture. In the event 

 citizens, other persons and entities have credible 

 information that a wrong doing could be associated with a 

 bank account, it is needless to state that they have the 

 right, and in fact the moral duty, to inform the State, and 

 consequently the State would have the obligation to 

 investigate the same, within the boundaries of 

 constitutional permissibility. If the State fails to do so, the 

 appropriate courts can always intervene. 78.The major problem, in the matters before us, has been 

 the inaction of the State. This is so, both with regard to 

 the specific instances of Hassan Ali Khan and the 

 Tapurias, and also with respect to the issues regarding 

 parallel economy, generation of black money etc. The 

 failure is not of the Constitutional values or of the powers 

 available to the State; the failure has been of human 

 agency. The response cannot be the promotion of 

 vigilantism, and thereby violate other constitutional 

 values. The response has to necessarily be a more 

 emphatic assertion of those values, both in terms of 

 protection of an individual's right to privacy and also the 

 protection of individual's right to petition this Court, under 6 Clause (1) of Article 32 , to protect fundamental rights 

 from evisceration of content because of failures of the 

 State. The balancing leads only to one conclusion: 79.In light of the above we order that: After conclusion of such investigations by the 

 Special Investigation Team, the Respondents may 

 disclose the names with regard to whom show 

 cause notices have been issued and proceedings 

 initiated. 80. Compliance reports shall be filed by Respondents, with 

respect of all the orders issued by this Court today. List for 

further directions in the week following the Independence 

Day, August 15, of 2011. Ordered accordingly. 6 ................................................J.

 (B. SUDERSHAN REDDY)

NEW DELHI, ................................................J.

JULY 4, 2011. (SURINDER SINGH NIJJAR)