1. This judgment shall dispose off the case pertaining to FIR
 No.542/08, PS Rajouri Garden, titled as 'State Vs Sameer & Ors. ',
 for the offence punishable u/s 489B/489C IPC against the accused
 Sameer, Dilawar Singh, Mohd. Shamim and Shoaib Ali. 2. The brief facts as germane from the deposition of PW­11
 SI Manoj Kumar are that he had information that one Sameer would
 coming to deliver the consignment of fake currency at Shivaji Place,
 near BSES power house, Rajouri Garden. On 14.10.2008, he along
 with ASI Vir Pal , HC Ved Parkash HC Rajbir Ct. Shashi and Ct. Ram
 Singh with secret informer left their office and reached Mehta Chowk
 and requested some public persons to join the raid but nobody agreed .
 Then they reached at the place of information at Shivaji Place and
 there laid trap. At about 5.00PM, one person found coming on foot
 having a polythene who was pointed out by the informer as Sameer.
 They waited for sometime for the other person to reach but nobody
 else came and Sameer started walking then they apprehended Sameer.
 On search from his pent pocket ten currency notes of Rs. 500/­
 denomination, from the polythene one packet of Rs. 1000/­
 denomination and two packets of Rs. 500/­ denomination. On
 checking the currency, they were found to be fake and counterfeit. The
 currency notes were sealed in three plastic jars and given mark and SC No.163/1/09 Page 2/25 were seized vide memo Ex.PW2/A and PW2/B. The polythene were
 also seized vide memo Ex.PW2/C. The plastic jars and pulanda sealed
 with the seal of MKY. Seal after use was given to HC Ved Parkash.
 SI Manoj Kumar prepared a tehrir which is Ex.PW11/A and gave to
 Ct. Satpal who went to police station. ASI Krishan Kumar reached at
 the spot and further investigation was taken over by him. SI Manoj
 Kumar handed over the documents and case property to him. Next day
 accused Sameer was produced before court and his police custody was
 obtained. PW­9 SI Krishan Kumar deposed in his deposition that on
 14.10.2008 at about 08:10PM received an information that SI Manoj
 Kumar apprehended one Mohd. Sameer at Shivaji Place near power
 house of BSES and he is found in possession of fake currency notes.
 The further investigation was handed over to him and during this time
 Ct. Satpal came there and given to him, the copy of the FIR and
 original Tehrir and SI Krishan Kumar along with Ct. Satpal came at
 the spot where SI Manoj, ASI Veerpal, HC Rajveer, HC Ved Prakash,
 Ct. Shashi and Ct. Ram Singh were present. The investigating officer
 handed over to SI Krishan Kumar, the accused Sameer and three
 sealed plastic jar with clothes strings tied and sealed with the seal of
 MKY. He prepared the site plan vide Ex.PW9/A. Accused Sameer
 was interrogated and arrested vide arrest memo Ex.PW2/B, his
 personal search was also conducted vide Ex.PW2/E. Accused Sameer
 also made disclosure statement Ex.PW2/F. Sameer disclosed about
 other accused persons namely Dilawar, Shoaib Ali and informed that
 they can be apprehended from Trans Yamuna Area and they have their SC No.163/1/09 Page 3/25 hideouts in Sonepat, Haryana. SI Krishan Kumar deposited the
 pulandas in the malkhana and he also recorded the statements of the
 witnesses. Accused Sameer was brought to the office of special staff.
 Next day the accused Sammer was produced in the court through SI
 Manoj Kumar and his seven days police custody was obtained. SI
 Krishan Kumar along with ASI Veerpal, Ct. Satpal, Ct. Pramod and
 HC Ved Prakash came to Trans Yamuna near MCD School Metro
 Station but nobody was found there. On 17.08.2008, accused Sameer
 was further interrogated and a supplementary statement was made by
 him which is Ex.PW2/G and informed that one Imtiaz @ Taj who
 resides in Calcutta and he brought fake currency notes from Nepal and
 gives him. After informing the senior officers, he along with accused
 Sameer, SI Manoj, HC Ved Prakash, ASI Balvinder, Ct. Suresh, Ct.
 Satpal and Ct. Narendra reached Calcutta and searched for Imtiaz at
 Khidderpur and other places but he could not be traced. Accused
 Sameer produced in court on 22.10.2008 and was sent to judicial
 custody for one day. On 23.10.2008, police custody remand for three
 more days obtained of accused Sameer. Then they went to Sonepat,
 Jind Haryana but nobody was found. On 24.02.008 at about 05:15PM
 in Delhi in front of Channan Devi Hospital main gate accused Sameer
 pointed towards a person that he was Shoaib Ali his uncle and he was
 involved in this case. Accused Shoib Ali was arrested and from his
 right side pant pocket, one packet of currency notes of Rs.500/­
 recovered which were Rs.17,500/­ and were found fake. He was
 arrested vide arrest memo Ex.PW5/D and personal search memo
 Ex.PW5/E. The currency notes were kept in a plastic jar and wrapped SC No.163/1/09 Page 4/25 with the plastic tape and sealed with the seal of KK vide Ex.PW5/A.
 Disclosure statement was also recorded vide Ex.PW5/E and accused
 Shoiab Ali disclosed about other accused Dilawar and Imtiaz. At
 about 09:30PM, on the same day, the police had gone to RZA25,
 Jeevan Park accused Dilawar was apprehended, from his right pant
 pocket Rs.17,000/­ fake currency notes, all in the denomination of
 Rs.500/­ each recovered which were kept in a plastic jar and sealed
 with the seal of KK. The jar was given serial no.B2. Accused Dilwar
 Singh was also arrested vide arrest memo Ex.PW5/F. His personal
 search was conducted vide memo Ex.PW5/G and disclosure statement
 also recorded vide Ex.PW5/H. PW­9 SI Krishan Kumar recorded the
 statement of the witnesses and deposited the case property in the
 malkhana. Next day accused Shoaib Ali and Dilawar were taken to
 Trans Yamuna and at about 10:15AM at Anand Vihar Bus Stand
 accused Shoaib Ali pointed towards one persons stating that he was
 Mohd. Shamim who brings currency from Nepal. He was carrying
 polythene in his hand. He was apprehended and polythene was
 checked in which one packet of Rs.1,000/­ and two packets of
 Rs.500/­. All packets were of Rs.100/­ notes. The currency notes
 were kept in a plastic jar and sealed with the seal of KK and seizure
 memo Ex.PW5/M was prepared. Accused Shamim was arrested, his
 personal search conducted vide memo Ex.PW5/K and Ex.PW5/L. The
 disclosure statement of the accused Shamim also recorded vide memo
 Ex.PW5/J. On 01.11.2008, police remand of accused Mohd. Shamim
 obtained. He made a supplementary disclosure statement Ex.PW1/A.
 He was taken to different places in UP at Muradabad, Haridwar SC No.163/1/09 Page 5/25 insearch of Motilal and Pandit Somnath but could not be traced.
 Accused Shamim was also interrogated by official of IB Special
 Branch being a resident of Nepal. His consolate in New Delhi was
 informed. On 08.11.2008, he was produced in the court and sent to
 J/C. On 22.11.2008, the sealed pulandas were obtained from
 Malkhana and SI Krishan along with Ct. Shashi had taken the
 pulandas to Nasik Govt. Press, Maharashtra and the same were
 deposited on 24.11.2008 and the result of Nasik Press was obtained on
 26.11.2008 vide Ex.PW8/A. After completion of the investigation,
 challan was filed. 3. After assignment of the case and on compliance of the
 proceedings under section 209 Cr.P.C., a prima facie case has been
 made out against the accused persons for the offence under section
 489B and 489C IPC as such charge was framed against the accused
 persons, for which the accused persons pleaded not guilty and claimed
 trial. Accused Sameer @Mohd. Murtaza was found in possession
 of Rs.2,05,000/­ forged counterfeit 10 currency notes in the
 denomination of Rs.500/­ one bundle of Rs.1,000/­ containing 100
 notes, two bundle of Rs.500/­, each bundle containing 100 notes. Accused Shoaib Ali was found in possession of 35 notes of
 Rs.500/­ each totaling Rs.17,500/­. Accused Dilawar was found in
 possession of 34 notes of Rs.500/­ each totaling Rs.17,000/­ and
 accused Mohd. Shamim was found in possession of 3 bundles of
 Rs.500/­ each totaling Rs.1.5 lacs. 4. The prosecution to substantiate the allegations against the SC No.163/1/09 Page 6/25 accused persons, examined 11 witnesses. The officials of the crime
 team PW­2 HC Ved Prakash, PW­4 Ct. Satpal, PW­5 ASI Virpal
 Singh, PW­6 Ct. Pramod in their depositions stated the story as
 narrated in the preceding paras of the judgment, as they are the
 members of the raiding party and witness of apprehension or arrest of
 the accused persons and recovery of the fake currency notes and
 documents prepared during the course of investigation. Apart from these witnesses, PW­1 HC Rajbir and PW­7 Ct.
 Surender Singh are the witnesses of the police remand and disclosure
 statement of the accused Shamim vide Ex.PW1/A. PW­8 P.D. Kaley
 proved the expert report with respect to the fake currency notes.
 PW­10 ASI Sohan Lal is the duty officer who proved the registration
 of the FIR vide Ex.PW10/A and made endorsement Ex.PW10/B. 5. After completion of the prosecution evidence, statements of
 the accused persons recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C. in which all
 the incriminating evidence led by the prosecution put to the accused
 persons which they denied as false and incorrect with the submissions
 that they are innocent and falsely implicated in the present case. Case
 property is planted upon them by the police party. 6. The accused persons also led defence evidence, in their
 defence examining DW­1 Insp. Raj Kumar and DW­2 Ashgar Ali.
 DW­1 Insp. Raj Kumar stated in his deposition that he joined the
 raiding party 3­4 times in the present case. Investigating officer had
 not recorded his statement in this case. He went to Raxsole, Bihar
 near Nepal­Bihar Border alongwith ASI Veerpal, HC Sudesh Kumar,
 HC Pramod and Ct. Dharmender on 18.10.2008 and reached there on SC No.163/1/09 Page 7/25 19.10.2008. He went to Raxsole by a private taxi bearing No. DL­
 1YA 9712. He made the inquiry about the accused Shamim at
 Raxsole. He has taken the permission from the Senior Officers about
 the same. The same is not on the record. He himself hired the vehicle
 No. DL­1YA 9712 for the visit of Raxsole. He paid about
 Rs.13/14,000/­ to the owner of the said vehicle and thereafter, he
 claimed the same from his department. He has given the permission
 letter which he obtained from the Senior Officer to the Investigation
 Officer. He has not given any slip of reimbursement of the aforesaid
 amount to the investigating officer. He made the DD entry in respect
 of departure and arrival to Raxsole and returned back. The same was
 not on Court record. On inquiry, he came to know that one person
 Shamim who is running a meet shop in Nepal in front of Shri Ram
 Takies, Veerganj, Nepal and he also came to know that the said person
 Shamim also deals in the counterfeit currency. After collecting the
 relevant information of accused Shamim, he came back to his office
 on 22.10.2008. DW­2 Ashgar Ali stated in his deposition that on
 22.10.2008, his niece (Bhanji) Musiquima Khatoon W/o Mohd.
 Shamim alongwith her relative Husnain came to his residence at
 about 3:00PM. They informed that some police officials took the
 Mohd. Shamim forcibly from Raksol to Raja Garden Police Station
 for interrogation. On 22.10.2008, they went to PS Raja Garden and
 enquired about the Mohd. Shamim where Ashgar Ali was told by
 some police official that the accused Mohd. Shamim was taken by
 them in respect of some interrogation and they will set him free after SC No.163/1/09 Page 8/25 interrogation. They again went to the police station Raja Garden to
 know the status of Mohd. Shamim at about 11:00 AM and on enquiry
 he was informed by the police official that no person in the name of
 Shamim is available in the police station and asked him to leave the
 police station. They thereafter came to Tis Hazari and approached an
 advocate near lock up, who advised us to write an application to the
 Sr. Officers and charged Rs. 500/­ from him for the same and also
 assured him that his relative Mohd. Shamim will become free. As per
 advise of the said Advovate, he has written an application addressed to
 Commissioner of Police and handed over the same to the said
 Advocate who later on gave him two receipts out of which one small
 receipt is not available with him as the same is lost somewhere. But
 the second receipt which is available with him is Ex. DW2/A and the
 complaint written by him dated 23.10.2008 to the Commissioner
 Police is mark A and the same is in his handwriting and the said
 Advocate send the same to the Commissioner of Police on
 23.10.2008. 7. After conclusion of the defence evidence, I have heard the
 submission of Ld. APP for state and Ld. Counsel for the accused
 persons and also carefully gone through the material placed on record. 8. Ld. APP for state submitted that the prosecution examined
 all the material witnesses to prove the guilt of the accused persons. It
 is a matter of record that huge quantity of fake currency notes were
 recovered from the possession of the accused persons and same was
 being proved by PW­8 P.D. Kaley that the currency notes which were
 recovered from the accused persons were fake and counterfeit. The SC No.163/1/09 Page 9/25 recovery of the huge quantity of fake currency notes shows the
 wrongful gain and wrongful loss to the Govt. of India. All the
 witnesses with respect to the raiding arty are no doubt the police
 official but the investigating officer PW­11 SI Manoj Kumar made no
 sincere efforts to join the public witnesses in the raid and enquiry.
 However, none of the public witnesses agreed. The testimony of the
 police witnesses be treated as to the public witnesses since they have
 not enimical terms with the accused persons. As such question of
 falsely implication does not arise. Hence, the accused persons are
 liable to be convicted as per the charges framed against them. 9. On the contrary, Ld. Counsel for the accused persons
 submitted that as per the deposition of the prosecution witnesses there
 are 8 to 10 police officials who are joined in the investigation and
 members of the raiding party but out of them only 5­6 members were
 joined in the raiding party and their deposition are not trustworthy
 since they have made contradictory version regarding the
 apprehension of the accused persons as well as the recovery of the
 alleged fake currency notes. It is further contended that there are
 ample opportunity to the police official to join the public witnesses in
 the raid. PW SI Manoj Kumar did not make efforts to join the public
 witnesses neither at the time of apprehension nor the information was
 given to the senior officers, nor arranged any public witnesses to join
 the public persons before proceeding to conduct the raid. It shows the
 deficiency on the part of SI Manoj Kumar. Ld. Counsel for the accused also relied upon 32 (1987) DLT
 333 Chaman Lal Vs State, where it is observed that the investigating SC No.163/1/09 Page 10/25 officer has not complied with the provisions of section 166 Cr.P.C. it
 is an admitted fact that the recoveries have been made within the
 jurisdiction of a different police station. There are made by an officer
 who does not belong to the police station where the appellant resides.
 In law investigating officer was bound to report the matter of seizure
 to the concerned police station. It has failed to make a record of the
 search in the books of that police station and has failed to inform the
 Magistrate about it. In the circumstances of this case since the search
 was conducted within the jurisdiction of a police station different than
 the one in which the case was registered and was conducted by a
 police officer of the station where registration was done, the
 provisions of section 166 Cr.P.C. had to be followed. Non­
 compliance of this provision also renders the investigating as suspect. Ld. Counsel for the accused persons draw the attention of to
 the deposition of DW­1 Insp. Raj Kumar who stated in his deposition
 that he joined the raiding party 3­4 times in the present case and his
 statement was not recorded by the investigating officer in this case.
 He categorically stated that he hired a private taxi bearing No. DL­
 1YA 9712 for making inquiry about the accused Shamim at Raxsole.
 He has taken the permission from the Senior Officers about the same.
 The same is not on the record. He paid about Rs.13/14,000/­ to the
 owner of the said vehicle and thereafter, he claimed the same from his
 department. He has not given any slip of reimbursement of the
 aforesaid amount to the investigating officer. Ld. Counsel for the accused persons also relied upon 2009
 (2) Cr. Court Cases 506 (P&H), Gurdev Singh& Ors. Vs State of SC No.163/1/09 Page 11/25 Punjab, where it is held that non recording of statement of a material
 witness under section 161 Cr.P.C. is a serious irregularity which
 causes a serious prejudice to the accused as accused is deprived of
 confronting the witness with his previous statement so as to shatter the
 veracity of his testimony made in court. Counsel for the accused also
 relied upon 2009 (2) Cr. Court Cases 666 (P&H) Balwinder
 Singh@ Billa Vs State of Haryana, where it is observed that
 statement of material witnesses not recorded under section 161 Cr.P.C.
 No explanation as to why the same not recorded. Accused deprived of
 his right of confronting the witnesses with their previous statement, so
 as to shatter their veracity. Case of prosecution becomes highly
 doubtful. It is further submitted by Ld. Counsel of the accused that
 there are various contradictions in the statement of the prosecution
 witnesses i.e. the members of the raiding party. Ld. Counsel for the
 accused also relied upon 2010 (1) Cr. Court Cases 430 (Allahabad),
 Mahendra Pal Singh & Ors. Vs State of U.P., where it was observed
 that prosecution not disclosed complete facts, definitely there is an
 element of doubt in the prosecution case. It is the accused alone, who
 will derive benefit on this lacuna on the part of the prosecution. PW­11 SI Manoj Kumar stated in his cross examination that
 her statement was recorded on 14.10.2008 by the investigating officer
 but the copy of the same is not on judicial file. PW­9 SI Krishan
 Kumar stated in his cross examination that he had obtained the case
 property from Malkhana on 22.11.2008 and deposited the same
 on24.11.2008 in Nasik Govt. Press Maharashtra against a receipt. The SC No.163/1/09 Page 12/25 said receipt is not filed on judicial file. He recorded the statement of
 P.D. Kale under section 161 Cr.P.C. and the said statement is not on
 the judicial file. He did not inform about the arrest of Shoaib Ali and
 recovery from him to the local police station of the area. No written
 notice was given to any public persons for refusing to join the
 investigation at the time of recovery from the accused persons. In
 view of the aforesaid submissions the accused persons are liable to be
 acquitted from the charges leveled against them. 10. In view of the submissions made by the Ld. Addl. Public
 Prosecutor and Ld. Defence counsel, for the purpose of attracting the
 provision of section 489B,C and D, the prosecution has to prove the
 'Men
 s rea'
 of offences under sections 489B and 489C is "kno wing or
 having reason to believe the currency notes or bank notes are forged or
 counterfeit" . Without the aforementioned mens rea selling, buying or
 receiving from another person or otherwise trafficking in or using as
 genuine forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes, is not
 enough to constitute offence under section 489B IPC. So also
 possessing or even intending to use any forged or counterfeit currency
 notes or bank notes is not sufficient to make out a case under section
 489C in the absence of the mens rea. In case titled as Punnusamy Vs
 State 1997 SCC (Cri)217 it is observed that " when the charge against
 the accused is that he purchased paddy from a peasant on payment of
 forged currency notes and could not explain wherefrom he received
 such forged currency notes and remained silent on that point in trial
 court, the prosecution case against him is strengthened by his silence
 and not offering any explanation as to how he got such forged SC No.163/1/09 Page 13/25 currency notes. So he is guilty u/s 489B for using forged currency
 notes as genuine." Suspicions whether the notes were genuine will not amount
 to sufficient cause to believe. The word 'bel
 ieve' is a very much
 stronger word than 'sus
 pect'
 and it involves the necessity of showing
 that the circumstances were such that a reasonable man must have felt
 convinced in his mind that the note with which he was dealing was a
 forged one, and it was not sufficient to show that the accused was
 careless or he had reason to suspect or that he did not make sufficient
 enquiry to ascertain the fact. When therefore, a person in the usual
 course of business gets a currency note which he finds to be suspicious
 and tried to get rid of it, he would not be guilty either under section
 489B or 489C as observed in Hamid Ali AIR 1961 Trip 46: 1961 2
 Cri LJ 801 (Tripura). The collateral circumstances, such as, the
 bulk of the fake currency notes, the mixture of fake currency notes, the
 palming off of such notes quickly and the fact that the accused, by no
 stretch of imagination, could be said to be a layman or an uneducated
 man, are sufficient to infer that the accused had reason to believe that
 the currency notes with him were fake or counterfeit. 
 The prosecution must prove :­ (i) That the currency note or bank note in question was
 forged or counterfeit. (iii) That he intended to use it as genuine or that it might be
 used as genuine. The onus lies on the prosecution to prove circumstances
 which lead clearly, indubitably and irresistibly to the inference that the
 accused had the intention to foist the notes on the public. Such
 intention can be proved by collateral circumstances such as that the
 accused had palmed off such notes before or that he was in possession
 of such and similar notes in such large numbers that his possession for
 any other purpose is inexplicable. Defective investigation may discredit the prosecution, but
 prosecution evidence may not necessarily be discarded on that ground.
 If the evidence is otherwise reliable and trustworthy, the court may
 convict the accused. Reminiscence of investigating officer will not
 ipso facto weaken the case of the prosecution. Courts should not be
 influenced by suspicious roles played by the investigation officer
 during investigation and criminal justice should not be made a
 casualty for wrongs committed by investigating officers. In cases of
 defective investigation the court has to be circumspect in evaluating
 the evidence but it would not be right in acquitting an accused person
 solely on account of the defect and to do so would tantamount to
 playing into the hands of the investigating officer if the investigation
 is designedly defective. In case titled as Akbar & Anr. Vs State 2010 III AD
 (Delhi) with reference to the decisions of the Supreme Court reported
 as Tahsildar Singh Vs State of UP AIR 1959 SC 1012, Bharwada
 Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai Vs State of Gujarat AIR 1983 SC 753 and SC No.163/1/09 Page 15/25 Leela Ram Vs State of Haryana AIR 1997 SC 3717, 13 principles to
 be followed while evaluating evidence of eye witnesses were culled
 out being :­ (i) While appreciating the evidence of a witness, the approach
 must be whether the evidence of the witness read as a whole appears
 to have a ring of truth. Once that impression is formed, it is
 undoubtedly necessary for the court to scrutinize the evidence more
 particularly keeping in view the deficiencies, drawbacks and
 infirmities pointed out in the evidence as a whole and evaluate them to
 find out whether it is against the general tenor of the evidence given
 by the witness and whether the earlier evaluation of the evidence is
 shaken as to render it unworthy of belief. (ii) If the court before whom the witness given evidence had the
 opportunity to form the opinion about the general tenor of evidence
 given by the witness, the appellate court which had not this benefit
 will have to attach due weight to the appreciation of evidence by the
 trial court and unless there are reasons weighty and formidable it
 would not be proper to reject the evidence on the ground of minor
 variations or infirmities in the matter of trivial details. (iii) When eye­witness is examined at length it is quite possible for
 him to make some discrepancies. But courts should bear in mind that
 it is only when discrepancies in the evidence of a witness are so
 incompatible with the credibility of his version that the court is
 justified in jettisoning his evidence. (iv) Minor discrepancies on trivial matters not ouching the core of
 the case, hyper technical approach by taking sentences torn out of SC No.163/1/09 Page 16/25 context here or there from the evidence, attaching importance to some
 technical error committed by the investigating officer not going to the
 root of the matter would not ordinarily permit rejection of the evidence
 as a whole. (v) Too serious a view to be adopted on mere variations falling in
 the in the narration of an incident (either as between the evidence of
 two witnesses or as between two statements of the same witness) is an
 unrealistic approach for judicial scrutiny. (vi) By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a
 photographic memory and to recall the details of an incident. It is not
 as if a video tape is replayed on the mental screen. (vii) Ordinarily it so happens that a witness is overtaken by events.
 The witness could not have anticipated the occurrence which so often
 has an element of surprise. The mental faculties therefore cannot be
 expected to be attuned to absorb the details. (viii) The powers of observation differ from person to person.
 What one may notice, another may not. An object or movement might
 emboss its image on one person's
 mind whereas it might go unnoticed
 on the part of another. (ix) By and large people cannot accurately recall a conversation
 and reproduce the very words used by them or heard by them. They
 can only recall the main purport of the conversation. It is unrealistic
 to expect a witness to be a human tape recorder. (x) In regard to exact time of an incident, or the time duration of an
 occurrence, usually, people make their estimates by guess work on the
 spur of the moment at the time of interrogation. And one cannot SC No.163/1/09 Page 17/25 expect people to make very precise or reliable estimates in such
 matters. Again, it depends on the time sense of individuals which
 varies from person to person. (xi) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall accurately
 the sequence of events which take place in rapid succession or in a
 short time span. A witness is liable to get confused, or mixed up when
 interrogated later on. (xii) A witness, though wholly truthful, is liable to be overawed by
 the court atmosphere and the piercing cross examination by counsel
 and out of nervousness mix up facts, get confused regarding sequence
 of events,or fill up details from imagination on the spur of the
 moment. The sub­conscious mind of the witness sometimes so
 operates on account of the fear of looking foolish or being disbelieved
 though the witness is giving a truthful and honest account of the
 occurrence witnesses by him. (xiii) A former statement though seemingly inconsistent with the
 evidence need not necessarily be sufficient to amount to contradiction.
 Unless the former statement has the potency to discredit the later
 statement, even if the later statement is at variance with the former to
 some extent it would not be helpful to contradict that witness. 11. The object of the legislature in enacting the section is to stop
 the circulation of forged notes by punishing all persons, who knowing
 or having reason to believe them to be forged, do any act which would
 lead to their circulation. The accused must have the knowledge or
 reason to believe that the notes were counterfeit or forged. This proof
 need not be necessarily by direct evidence. The various circumstances SC No.163/1/09 Page 18/25 leading to the seizure of forged notes, the manner in which the accused
 came into possession of those notes are important circumstances to be
 considered. In case cited as (1971) 1 Mys. LJ 508 and 1999 Cri LJ
 942 (DB) (Guj) : " Where the accused was found to be in possession of
 a large number of counterfeit currency notes it was held that it gave
 rise to a presumption that the possession of such notes was for the
 purpose of trafficking in currency notes." In another judgment 1989
 All. APP. Cases 229 (234) " Where the accused was found in
 possession of forged currency notes and though he did not sell or
 commit any other act constituting an offence u/s 489B, his possession
 of such large number of counterfeit currency note at the time of his
 arrest in the company of two negotiators gives rise to reasonable
 inference that the accused intended to use the counterfeit notes as
 genuine. He thus committed an offence punishable under section
 489C IPC. 12. As per the judgment as cited 1989 All. APP case 229 (334)
 wherein it has been held that "Ac cused was found in possession of
 forged currency notes and though he did not sell or commit any
 other act constituting an offence, his possession of such large
 number of counterfeit currency notes at the time of his arrest gives
 rise to reasonable inference that the accused intended to use the
 counterfeit notes as genuine and committed an offence punishable
 u/s 489 C IPC . 13. As regarding to the deposition of the prosecution witnesses,
 PW­2 HC Ved Prakash stated that the accused Shamim was SC No.163/1/09 Page 19/25 apprehended and from his right side pant pocket 10 currency notes of
 Rs.500/­ each was recovered to which he disclosed being fake. Three
 packets of currency notes was also recovered of which one was of 100
 currency notes of Rs.1000/­ denomination and two packets were of
 100 currency notes each of denomination of Rs.500/­. On checking
 the currency notes, 94 currency notes of Rs.500/­ of one packet were
 of similar number and six were of different number. In second packet
 of Rs.500/­ notes, 95 notes were of similar number and four were of
 different numbers and the currency notes of Rs,1000/­ which were 100
 in number were having similar number on each note. Thereafter, disclosure statement of the accused Shamim was
 recorded and the other accused Dilwar Singh and Shoaib Ali were
 apprehended and the fake currency notes were recovered. PW­4 Ct.
 Satpal, PW­5 SI Virpal, PW­6 Ct. Pramod, PW­9 SI Krishan Kumar
 and PW­11 SI Manoj Kumar also deposed in the similar manner with
 respect to the fake currency notes from the possession of the accused
 persons. The huge quantity of currency notes were recovered from the
 possession of the accused persons which cannot be said to be planted
 upon the accused persons. The police officials have no enmity with
 the accused persons not there was previous personal knowledge of the
 members of the police officials who conducted the raid. Therefore,
 there is no question of falsely implication of the accused persons in the
 present case. 14. So far as with respect to the joining of the public witnesses,
 it is a matter of fact that no one from the public was interested to join
 the raid and none has any time to join in the investigation and suffer SC No.163/1/09 Page 20/25 due to the harassment from the hands of the police officials. Since
 police officials do not have any grudge from the accused persons.
 Therefore, they be treated at par as public witnesses and their
 deposition regarding the recovery of the fake currency notes is
 corroborated. So far as with respect to any defect in the investigation
 or contradictions in the depositions of the prosecution witnesses that
 are natural one and which is not deliberate. Therefore, it does not
 cause any hamper to the case of the prosecution, as the error in the
 investigation or improvements and contradictions as pointed out do
 not go to the root of the prosecution case. 15. In view of the aforesaid discussion, facts and circumstances
 of the present case, the prosecution succeeded to bring the guilt of the
 accused persons for the offence punishable under section489C . Hence,
 the accused persons are hereby convicted for the offence under section
 489C IPC. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT TODAY ON 21.08.2010

 (SATINDER KUMAR GAUTAM)
 ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE(WEST­04)
 DELHI SC No.163/1/09 Page 21/25 IN THE COURT OF SH. SATINDER KUMAR GAUTAM,
 ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE (WEST­04), DELHI 
SC No. 163/1/09

State 

 Versus 1. Sameer @ Mohd. Murtaza 
 S/o Mohd. Juber Ali
 R/o C­202, Gali No.5, Madhu Vihar
 PS Dabri, South­West District, 
 New Delhi. 2. Shoaib Ali 
 S/o Mohd. Ibrahim
 R/o C­202, Gali No.5, Madhu Vihar
 PS Dabri, South­West District, 
 New Delhi. 3. Dilawar Singh 
 S/o Late Ram Dass
 R/o J­53, Mohan Garden, 
 Uttam Nagar, Delhi. 4. Mohd. Samim
 S/o Mohd. Sadique
 R/o Vill. Chhapkaiya, Ward No.2
 PS Veer Ganj, Distt. Parsha, Nepal. Case arising out of : Convicted with counsel Sh. Raj Kumar. Having heard the submissions of both the parties and
carefully gone through the material on record. The accused persons are
convicted for the offence under section 489C IPC, vide separate detailed
judgment dt. 21.08.2010. Ld. APP for state argued that the prosecution proved its case
against the accused persons beyond all reasonable doubts for the offence
punishable under section 489C IPC. The evidence led by the prosecution
is consistent and the testimony of prosecution witnesses are trustworthy,
corroborated and believable. Ld. APP for state further submitted that all
the material witnesses examined have proved the case property as fake
counterfeit currency notes by oral and documentary evidence.
Therefore, the accused persons are liable to be punished the sentence as
per the charges proved against them. The counsel for the convicted submitted that the accused persons
are belonging to a very poor family and remained in judicial custody for
a sufficient period of time. They do not know how the counterfeit
currency notes came in their possession. The fact of fake/counterfeit
currency notes revealed later on when the police has apprehended them
and after received the report from FSL. They are not habitual criminals
and having clean antecedents and if they are sent behind the bars and
treated severely it will punish not only them but also to their family
members who are dependent upon them. Therefore, convicted be dealt
with politely and lenient view may be taken to consider the nature of
offence and punishment described. In view of the aforesaid submission of Ld. APP for state and Ld.
defence counsel, the very aptly indicated in Dennis Councle MCG
Dautha Vs State of California (402 US 183: 28 L.D. 2d 711) that no
formula of foolproof nature is possible that would provide a reasonable
criterion in determining a just and appropriate punishment in the infinite
variety of circumstances that may affect the gravity of the crime. In the
absence of any foolproof formula which may provide any basis for
reasonable criteria to correctly assess various circumstances germane to
the consideration of gravity of crime, the discretionary judgment in the
facts of each case, is the only way in which such judgment may be
equitably distinguished. In 2008 X AD (S.C.) 645 in case titled as Siriya @ Shri Lal Vs
State of Madhya Pradesh , it has been held that, "in operation of
Sentencing System, law should adopt corrective machinery or the
deterrence based on factual matrix facts and given circumstances in each
case, the nature of the crime, in manner in which it was planned and
committed, the motive for commission of the crime, the conduct of the
accused, nature of weapons used and all other attending circumstances
are relevant in award of sentence. Sympathy to impose inadequate
sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine the
public confidence in the efficacy in law. .......... In each case, there should
be proper balancing of aggravating and mitigating circumstances on the
basis of relevant circumstances in a dispassionate manner. The contagion of lawlessness would undermine social order and
lay it in ruins. Protection of society and stamping out criminal proclivity
must be the object of law which must be achieved by imposing SC No.163/1/09 Page 24/25 appropriate sentence. Therefore, law as a cornerstone of the edifice of
" order" should meet the challenges confronting the society. Friedman
in his " Law in Changing Society" stated that, "St ate of criminal law
continues to be as it should be decisive reflection of social consciousness
of society". Therefore, in operating the sentencing system, law should
adopt the corrective machinery or the deterrence based on factual matrix. The accused persons committed an offence which is not so serious
as to the homicide but if we take the wider meaning, the person running
the business as having in possession of the fake government currency
for what was the motive except to use and circulate in the market none
else, resulted which, hamper the economy of th country, as well as also
cause negative effect on the economy system in India. Therefore, in view
of the facts and circumstances and the contentions raised by the Ld. APP
for state and the counsel for accused, the accused persons namely Sameer
@ Mohd. Murtaza, Sohaib Ali, Dilawar Singh and Mohd. Shamim are
sentenced to the already undergone imprisonment and fine of Rs.15,000/­
in default of six months simple imprisonment to each of the convicted
for the offence punishable u/s 489C IPC
 The sentence awarded will meet the end of justice and also
have a deterrent as well as reformatory way to the convicted too. Copy of this order and judgment be given to the convicted
free of cost forthwith.