Heard counsel for the parties. These bail applications have been filed by the applicant,
in connection with Crime No.9/2014 and Crime No.22/2014
registered with Police Station - S.T.F. Bhopal - commonly
known as VYAPAM Examination Scam cases - for the
offence punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of IPC and also under Section 3(Gha) (2) / 4 of the M.P.
Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is
that of a "middleman". According to the prosecution, the
applicant helped the candidates appearing in the examination
conducted by VYAPAM to commit unfair means during the
said examination. The applicant through other persons
arranged the impersonator-Imram Khan. It is not in dispute that the beneficiaries as well as other
persons, who helped the applicant in arranging Imram Khan
(impersonator), have been arrested. The applicant was arrested
on 29.9.2014 and since then he is in jail in connection with
both the crimes. The charge sheet has also been filed against
the applicant. The only reason given by the Investigating
Officer to oppose these bail applications is non-arrest of Imran 2 Khan (impersonator). Considering the fact that all other co-accused connected
with the applicant have already been arrested and released on
bail, the reason for non-arrest of Imran Khan (impersonator),
in our opinion, cannot be cited as sufficient cause for opposing
grant of bail, especially when the applicant is in jail since
September 2014 and charge sheet has also been filed against
him. Non-arrest of Imran Khan (impersonator) may be
reflection on the Investigating Agency of having failed to trace
him, but that cannot be the basis to deny bail to the applicant
beyond reasonable time. The applicant having remained in jail
for quite some time and other co-accused are already released
on bail and that the role ascribed to the applicant is that of a
middleman coupled with the fact that the applicant through
counsel undertakes to extend full cooperation to the
Investigating Officer for further investigation of the crimes, if
necessary, including against the applicant and to punctually
appear before the Trial Court for early disposal of the criminal
cases registered against the applicant, the applicant is ordered
to be released on bail but on strict condition including the bail
bond of a sum of Rs.5,00,000/-. We are inclined to impose this
strict condition of bail bond of Rs.5,00,000/- because it is
submitted by the counsel for the State that the applicant was
arrested only after reward was declared against him, as the
applicant was untraceable from his known residential address. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the
matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the applicant on
following strict conditions:- The bail applications stand disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.