1. Heard Sri V.P. Srivastava, learned Senior Counsel and Sri Manish Tiwari, learned counsel assisted by Sri Padmaker Paney, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Anurag Singh, learned counsel for the opposite party no. 2 and Sri Pankaj Srivastava, learned A.G.A. for the State. 2. The instant application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. has been filed seeking quashing of the summoning order dated 25.05.2019 in Case No.5702 of 2017, arising out of Case Crime No.139 of 2017 (State of U.P. vs. Pravez Kumar @ Shammi) under Sections (in short, 'u/S') 386 and 304 of the India Penal Code (hereinafter referred to as, ' I.P.C .'), P.S.- Fazalganj, District- Kanpur Nagar, pending in the court of learned Metropolitan Magistrate, Kanpur Nagar. 3. The brief facts of the instant case are that on 25.06.2017, an F.I.R. was lodged by the opposite party no. 2/Jasvinder Singh, who is the son of the deceased, alleging therein that the opposite party no.2 alongwith his father, the deceased Manjeet Singh, was present in his medical shop- Manjeet Chemist. At that time, the applicant herein alongwith six-seven other persons came there stating himself to be the Chairman of the Drug Association and demanded from him Rs. 4,00,000/- for Association. The father of the informant has shown his inability to make the aforesaid payment, thereupon, these persons started abusing his father and on provocation of these persons the applicant herein bring out the pistol from his waist and pointed out the same to the father of the opposite party no.2, due to which his father was shaken up and by holding his chest he fell on the ground. Thereafter, the informant alongwith others tried to console his father, at the same time, the applicant alongwith his accomplices ran away from the spot. Thereafter, the informant has taken his father to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. 4. On the basis of the aforesaid incident the instant F.I.R. was registered under Sections 386 and 304 I.P.C. and the matter was investigated and an Inquest Report was prepared. As per the Inquest Report, in which the informant was also one of the members of the punch, appointed by the Inquest Officer and in the opinion of the punch the deceased had died due to heart attack. However, for the purpose of removal of doubts and determination and of actual cause of death, postmortem may be conducted. Accordingly, the postmortem was conducted on 26.06.2017, wherein the following opinion was expressed by the doctors, which reads as under: 5. In the postmortem report, no ante-mortem injury was found on the body of the deceased. Under Section 164 Cr.P.C. statement, the informant has supported the allegations as made in the F.I.R. However, on query made by the Investigation Officer(IO) with regard to the names of other unknown persons, he told that he was not aware about the names of other persons and on the query with regard to the CCTV footage, the informant told that the CCTV camera was not functioning from eight-nine months. With regard to the presence of other persons in the shop, the informant has named two persons, namely Deepak Goswami and Rakesh Singh etc. With regard to the query whether any talks happened between the informant prior to the incident with the applicant, he told that no such talks had taken place with him, however, he is not aware about any talks with his father. On the query with regard to the illness to his father, the informant kept mum and on query why he has not intimated the police or had not dialled 100 number, he did not answer but later told that due to such a serious incident he was disheartened and could not inform. On the query whether any recording was done with regard to the said incident, he told that their mobiles were shut down by the applicant 6. Deepak Goswami, whose presence was stated by the informant in his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C., was also examined by the IO. The said Deepak Goswami has told that he works in the Kumar Medical Store, which is owned by the applicant herein. Deepak Goswami has admitted that he used to stole medicines from the Kumar Medical Shop and used to sell the said medicines to the deceased and on having suspicion the applicant came to the shop of the deceased and has prepared the video recording, photographs while the said Deepak Goswami was giving the medicines to the father of the informant and he informed the office bearers of the Drug Association and a settlement was arrived at. It is alleged by the said Deepak Goswami that neither any misbehaviour or assault was committed by the applicant herein. After the negotiation of the settlement the deceased has taken the cold drink and his condition worsened and he was taken to the hospital, where he had died due to the cardiac arrest. 7. Another witness, namely Rakesh Singh, was examined by the IO who told that at the time of incident he was there in his shop and he heard the noise in the shop of the deceased. Three-four persons were standing there and were loudly talking to the deceased and on hearing the loud noise he also reached at the shop. All these three-four persons were inside the shop and were shouting at the deceased. Thereafter, the deceased told that he is not feeling well. There was no person outside only the crowd was there, thereafter , he drunk the water and had fell down. He was taken to hospital where he was asked to go to the Cardiology Hospital. On the query made by the IO, whether any person who was inside the shop was carrying any pistol, then, he told that yes, a person was carrying a pistol in his waist. However, he has not pointed out the pistol at any one. On the query for what was the dispute there, then, he told that there was some dispute with regard to the transaction of medicines, he asked that if he could identify any of the persons, he answered that they were calling for Shammi Shammi. On the query whether information was given by him at hundred number, he told that he was not supposed to give any intimation, it was the deceased, who ought to have given intimation to the police. On the query whether the persons who were threatening the deceased had taken him to hospital, then, he told that he has not aware about it. On the query that when the persons arguing with the deceased whether the son of the deceased was present in the shop, this witness told that no he came after information was given to him. 8. After concluding investigation, the final report was submitted on 15.09.2017, as on the statement of the other witnesses, inspection of the place of occurrence and independent and circumstantial evidence collected, no offence is found to be proved against the applicant and other alleged accused persons. On submission of such final report, a protest petition was filed by the opposite party no. 2 on 05.01.2018, therefore, vide order dated 12.01.2018, the said final report was rejected by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Kanpur Nagar and further investigation was directed. 9. During further investigation the statement of Nilesh Kumar, who conducted the postmortem was recorded, who stated that the deceased had died due to cardiac arrest. On the query whether the cardiac arrest had taken place naturally or due to some illness, the doctor told that the cardiac arrest has taken place due to cardiac infusion, which is natural and type of disease. The doctor has further stated that the said cardiac arrest could take place due to the diseases like diabetes and blood pressure. If somebody was shouting on the deceased and thereafter whether the sudden cardiac arrest can take place after an hour of such shouting, despite that person was talking and taking energy drink etc., is not possible. 10. The neighbouring shop owners, namely Pulkit Kapoor, Deepak Mehrotra and Rajesh Chaurasiya have also been examined, however, they have shown their inability to know anything about the incident directly, only some hearsay statements have been made which are of no consequence. 11. After conducting the further investigation, again the final report was submitted on 27.08.2018 in the instant case. Again, a protest petition dated 21.05.2019 was filed by the opposite party no. 2, thereupon, vide order dated 25.05.2019, the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Kanpur Nagar has rejected the final report dated 27.08.2018 submitted by the IO, and has summoned the applicant herein for the offences u/S 386 and 304 I.P.C. against which the instant application has been filed by the applicant herein. 12. Shri V.P. Srivtastava, learned Senior Counsel for the applicant submits that once the trial court has rejected the final report thereby the entire material which was collected during the investigation was rejected. Hence, the Magistrate was not competent to take cognizance on the basis of material, which has already been rejected by the Magistrate and proper course would have been that such protest petition ought to have been treated as a complaint case and thereupon, after following the procedure as prescribed in Chapter XVII of the Code of Criminal Procedure , the Magistrate could have summoned the applicant herein. 13. In support of his submissions learned Senior Counsel has relied upon an order dated 15.03.2023, passed by the Co-ordinate Bench of the Court in Application under Section 482 No. 8563 of 223 ( Smt. Bhuri vs. State of U.P. and Another ), which held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 14. Learned Senior Counsel has placed reliance upon the judgement of this Court in Chandrashekhar v. State , 1978 SCC OnLine All 733, wherein while answering the question whether the information contained in the First Information Report and the medical report, this information received from the police officer is within the meaning of Section 190 (c) of Code of Criminal Procedure? The Co-ordinate Bench of this Court has held as under: 7. If the police report is in respect of a case in which it appears to the officer-in-charge of a police station that an offence has not been committed by an accused then he is not required to send the first information report or the medical report or the other documents mentioned in S. 173(5) , Cr. P.C. to the Magistrate along with the police report. Normally, therefore, the question of his taking cognizance of an offence under S. 190(1)(c) , Cr. P.C. on the basis of the information contained in the first information report or the medical report does not arise. 8. In the present case it appears that the Investigating Officer submitted the first information report and the medical report to the Magistrate along with the police report in which it was stated that the accused-applicants did not commit any offence although he was not required to do so. We are, however, clearly of the opinion that the information contained in the first information report and the medical report was not received by the Magistrate from a person other than a police officer but was received by him from a police officer, as the first information report and the medical report were sent to him by the Investigating Officer. The information received from a person other than a police officer upon which a Magistrate may take cognizance of an offence under S. 190(1)(c) , Cr. P.C. is information which he receives directly from such a person and not information which is given by such a person to a police officer and which is sent to him by a police officer as in that case he would be receiving information from a police officer and not from a person other than a police officer. Our answer to the question referred to us is, therefore, in affirmative. 9. Let this opinion be placed before the learned Single Judge for necessary orders." (Emphasis Supplied) 15. Learned Senior Counsel for the applicant has further placed reliance upon the order of the Co-ordinate Bench of this Court dated 05.08.2024 in Application u/S 482 No. 16876 of 2024 ( Aridaman Singh vs. State of U.P. and Another ), which reads as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 16. In Vishnu Kumar Tiwari v. State of U.P. , (2019) 8 SCC 27, the Apex Court has considered the question whether the protest petition was filed after the submission of a final report can be treated as a complaint case. The Apex Court has held as under: 44. We may also notice that in Veerappa v. Bhimareddappa [Veerappa v. Bhimareddappa, 2001 SCC OnLine Kar 447 : 2002 Cri LJ 2150] , the High Court of Karnataka observed as follows: (SCC OnLine Kar para 9)
 
"9. From the above, the position that emerges is this: Where initially the complainant has not filed any complaint before the Magistrate under Section 200 CrPC, but, has approached the police only and where the police after investigation have filed the 'B' report, if the complainant wants to protest, he is thereby inviting the Magistrate to take cognizance under Section 190(1)(a) CrPC on a complaint. If it were to be so, the protest petition that he files shall have to satisfy the requirements of a complaint as defined in Section 2(d) CrPC, and that should contain facts that constitute offence, for which, the learned Magistrate is taking cognizance under Section 190(1)(a) CrPC. Instead, if it is to be simply styled as a protest petition without containing all those necessary particulars that a normal complaint has to contain, then, it cannot be construed as a complaint for the purpose of proceeding under Section 200 CrPC." 45. "Complaint" is defined in Section 2(d) of the Code as follows: 46. If a protest petition fulfils the requirements of a complaint, the Magistrate may treat the protest petition as a complaint and deal with the same as required under Section 200 read with Section 202 of the Code. In this case, in fact, there is no list of witnesses as such in the protest petition. The prayer in the protest petition is to set aside the final report and to allow the application against the final report. While we are not suggesting that the form must entirely be decisive of the question whether it amounts to a complaint or is liable to be treated as a complaint, we would think that essentially, the protest petition in this case, is summing up of the objections of the second respondent against the final report." (Emphasis Supplied) 17. Learned Senior Counsel for the applicant has further placed reliance upon which the judgement of the of R.P. Kapur v. State of Punjab , 1960 SCC OnLine SC 21, in which the Apex Court has laid down the following guidelines for exercising the powers under Section 561-A of the old Code of Criminal Procedure , which was analogous to Section 482 Cr.P.C. (Emphasis Supplied) 18. Learned Senior Counsel for the applicant has further relied upon the judgement of the Apex Court in State of Karnataka v. L. Muniswamy : (1977) 2 SCC 699, wherein the Apex Court has held as under : 19. The aforesaid judgement in L. Muniswamy (supra), has been relied upon in the subsequent judgement of the Apex Court in R.K. Vijayasarathy v. Sudha Seetharam , (2019) 16 SCC 739, the Apex Court has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 20. In Rashmi Chopra v. State of U.P. , (2019) 15 SCC 357, relying the various earlier judgements including State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426], the Apex Court has held as under: "21. The criminal prosecution can be allowed to proceed only when a prima facie offence is disclosed. This Court has observed that judicial process is a solemn proceeding which cannot be allowed to be converted into an instrument of oppression or harassment. If the High Court finds that the proceedings deserve to be quashed as per the parameters as laid down by this Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426] , the High Court shall not hesitate, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC to quash the proceedings." (Emphasis Supplied) 21. Sri Manish Tiwari, learned Senior Counsel, who also appeared for the applicant, relying the provisions of Sections 299 and 304 I.P.C., submits that taking all the allegations as levelled in the instant case as true, even then, no offence under Section 304 I.P.C., would be attracted in the instant case against the applicant herein, as the ingredients of Section 299 I.P.C. are not fulfilled. Even if it is assumed that the applicant herein was carrying the pistol as alleged and the witnesses have suggested that he has not pulled down the pistol from his waist and only the negotiation and quarrel were going on with regard to some medicines, which were allegedly, stealthy being sold to the deceased. Merely, the act of the applicant, keeping the pistol in his waist or pointing at the deceased would not constitute the offence of culpable homicide, as there was no intention on the part of the applicant to cause death of the deceased and there was no injury caused by the applicant, which would be attributed to the applicant herein in the entire incident except they were talking to the deceased and also quarrelling with him for some issue of sale of medicines, which by no stretch of imagination can be covered within the definition of culpable homicide as defined in Section 299 I.P.C. Thus, learned Senior Counsel seeks quashing of the entire proceedings of the instant case against the applicant herein. 22. Per Contra, learned counsel for the opposite party no. 2 submits that there is ample evidence available on record that the applicant herein had pointed out the pistol towards the deceased due to which the cardiological shock took place and the deceased had died. There are ample evidences available on record that the applicant has gone there to extort money from the deceased. The statement of Harjendra Singh Manchanda is categorical with regard to pointing out of revolver by the applicant towards the deceased. Presence of the informant in the shop and the demand being raised by the applicant herein. When the deceased had died the applicant has run away from the spot, saying that the deceased is pranking his death. 23. Learned counsel for the opposite party no.2 further submits that in the judgement and order dated 29.08.2023 in SLP (Crl. Nos. 8507/8507/2022 ( Zunaid vs. State of U.P. ), the Apex Court has categorically held that even after rejecting the conclusions drawn in the police report submitted under Section 173 (2) Cr.P.C., it is open for the Magistrate to take cognizance in the matter under Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C. Therefore, as argued by learned Senior Counsel appearing for the applicant submits that after rejecting the police report it is not open for the Magistrate to take cognizance in the matter under Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C., is a misleading argument. It is further submitted by learned counsel for the opposite party no. 2 that it has been highlighted that the deceased was selling the medicines, which were allegedly the stolen property and for which a video was prepared by the employee of the applicant herein. The aforesaid video clip was sent to Forensic Science Laboratory and as per the Forensic Lab report dated 31.05.2018, no such data was recovered at the Forensic Lab as per the Forensic Lab Report. Further, the presence of the applicant has been found at the place of incident, which has been stated by various witnesses and the call detail reports also proved the location of the applicant herein at the place of incident. 24. In view of the evidence available on record, it is a clear case of extortion of money by the applicant at the gun point and on pointing out of the revolver by the applicant herein the deceased had died on the spot. Therefore, the applicant herein is responsible for the death of the deceased caused during the incident of the extortion being committed by the applicant herein. 25. Learned counsel for the opposite party no. 2 further submits that since a prima facie case is made out on the basis of the material available on record, no interference is called for in the instant application and prays for dismissal of the instant application. 26. Learned A.G.A. also supports the submissions so made by learned counsel for the opposite party no. 2 and submits that since the involvement of the applicant herein is amply established from the material available on record, therefore, no interferences called for in the instant case. 27. Having heard the submissions made by learned counsels for the parties, this Court has carefully gone through the record of the case. To appreciate the first submission advanced by learner Senior Counsel, Sri V.P. Srivastava appearing on behalf of the applicant herein, it would be relevant to take note of Section 190 Cr.P.C., which reads as under: 28. From bare reading of the aforesaid provisions it is clear that as per Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C., it is open for the Magistrate to take cognizance on a police report irrespective of the conclusion drawn by the Investigating Officer. 29. The Apex Court in the case of H.S. Bains Vs. State (1980) 4 SCC 631, in paragraph 7 has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied)
 

 
30 In the case of M/s India Carat Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Karnataka and another , (1989) 2 SCC 132, the Apex Court in paragraph 16 and 17 has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 31. The Apex Court in the case of Union of India Vs. Prakash P. Hinduja and another : (2003) 6 SCC 195 in paragraph 14 has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 32. In Gangadhar Janardan Mhatre v. State of Maharashtra : (2004) 7 SCC 768, the Apex Court in paragraph 9 has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 33. Paragraph 27 of the judgment in the case of Vishnu Kumar Tiwari (supra), relied by learned counsel for the applicant reads as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 34. In the same judgement of Vishnu Kumar Tiwari (supra) it is worth mentioning that the Apex Court has held in paragraph 18 and 42 as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 35. A Coordinate Bench of this Court in Application u/s 482 No. - 5500 of 2023 ( Asif Ahmad Siddiqui Vs. State of U.P. and another ) decided on 26.4.2023 has held in paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 as under: 20. The cognizance of the offence can be taken on the basis of the police reports as envisaged in Clause (b) of Section 190(1) CrPC irrespective of the opinion of the Investigating Officer that prima facie no case is made out, if the material collected and the statements of the witnesses recorded under Section 161 CrPC, in the opinion of the Magistrate, are sufficient to make out a prima facie case against the accused persons. 21. Thus the position is very clear and well settled that upon receipt of a police report under Section 173(2) a Magistrate is entitled to take cognizance of an offence under Section 190(1)(b) of the Code even if the police report is to the effect that no case is made out against the accused. The Magistrate can take into account the statements of the witnesses examined by the police during the investigation and take cognizance of the offence complained of and order the issuance of process to the accused. Section 190(1)(b) does not lay down that a Magistrate can take cognizance of an offence only if the investigating officer gives an opinion that the investigation has made out a case against the accused. The Magistrate can ignore the conclusion arrived at by the investigating officer and independently apply his mind to the facts emerging from the investigation and take cognizance of the case, if he thinks fit in exercise of his powers under Section 190(1)(b) and direct the issue of process to the accused. The Magistrate is not bound in such a situation to follow the procedure laid down in Sections 200 and 202 of the Code for taking cognizance of a case under Section 190(1)(a) , though, it is open to him to act under Section 200 or Section 202 also." (Emphasis Supplied) 36. In the judgement of Zunaid (Supra), the Apex Court has held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 37. Therefore, from the above noted judgements it is crystal clear that where an F.I.R. has been filed and the Magistrate chooses to take cognizance of the matter disagreeing with the conclusion arrived at in the police report then such cognizance is taken on the basis of the police report and it is not mandatory for him to treat the protest petition so filed by the informant as a complaint and then proceed in accordance with the provisions of Section 200 Cr.P.C. If the Magistrate take cognizance on the police report itself, then the procedure under section 200 Cr.P.C. is not required to be followed. From the aforesaid observations made in the judgements referred above it is crystal clear that when a final report is submitted by the police the Magistrate may agree or disagree with such police report and if he wants to agree with such final report filed by the police then it is mandatory for him to issue notice to the complainant and consider the protest petition after giving the opportunity to the complainant and if he found that the conclusion drawn by the police in its report is wrong or not sustainable then he may straight away proceed to take cognizance in the matter under section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C. on the basis of the material brought on record alongwith the police report. 38. In view of the aforesaid settled position of law, there is no merit on the submissions of learned Senior Counsel that once the Final Report submitted by the police is rejected by the Magistrate, he is incompetent to take cognizance in the matter under Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C. as while rejecting the Final Report the Magistrate is rejecting only the conclusion drawn by the Investigation Agency not the entire report as such and all the materials collected during the investigation is available before the Magistrate to form his opinion whether a prima facie case is made out against the accused persons and thereupon he can overrule the opinion drawn by the Investigation Agency and record his own opinion and take cognizance in the matter under Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C., on the basis of said police report, which is available before the learned Magistrate, without undergoing the procedure for treating the protest petition as a complaint. Therefore, in the considered opinion of this Court there is no error in the cognizance/summoning order dated 25.05.2019, passed by the learned Magistrate summoning the applicant herein for the aforesaid offences. 39. The second argument raised by learned Senior Counsel for the applicant is with regard to the scope and ambit of the powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C., which has been well established by the Apex Court in the judgements of R.P. Kapur (supra), L. Muniswamy (supra), Bhajan Lal (supra) and Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra) etc. 40. In the case of Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of Maharashtra and Others : 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315, the Apex Court has held as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 41. From the aforesaid judgements the principles of law are well settled and once a prima facie offence is made out from the material available almost all the judgements have restrained the High Court from exercising the power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. The criminal proceedings can be quashed by the High Court while exercising the jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C., when from the entire material available on record, there is no prime facie case is made out. Further, if there is any legal bar against the institution or continuation of the proceedings or the allegations as made against the accused do not constitute the offence, however, it has been repeatedly held that while doing so it is not incumbent upon which High Court to embark upon a detailed enquiry as to whether the evidence in question is reliable or not as this function of testing the reliability of the evidence is to be exercised by the concerned Magistrate or the trial court. The powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. further can be exercised while in the opinion of the court, the criminal proceedings instituted are nothing but an abuse of process of the court and ends of justice required by the proceedings ought to have been to be quashed. 42. With regard to the submissions, which has been advanced by Sri Manish Tiwari, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant that even if the allegations as have been made made against the applicant herein are presumed to be true, no offence under Section 304 I.P.C., is made out against the applicant and the ingredient of Section 299 I.P.C. are not fulfilled. However, it would be appropriate to take note of Section 299 I.P.C. and Section 304 I.P.C. which reads as under: Section 304 .- Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder- Whoever commits culpable homicide not amounting to murder, shall be punished with 1 [imprisonment for life], or imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death, or of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, or with fine, or with both, if the act is done with the knowledge that it is likely to cause death, but without any intention to cause death, or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death." 43. In the instant case, the allegation that the applicant who claims himself to be the Chairman of the Drugs Association has gone into the medical store of the deceased and has demanded money illegally by pointing out a gun towards the deceased due to which a sudden shock was there and the deceased has died due to the cardiac arrest due to such sudden shock. The applicant herein has been charged for the offence under Sections 386 and 304 I.P.C. From the evidence available on record, there is ample evidence that the applicant herein has pointed out the gun towards the deceased and thereby had asked the deceased to deliver the money to him. In view thereof, a prima facie case of extortion is made out against the applicant herein. Further, from the allegation as made in the instant case, five-six persons have surrounded the deceased and the applicant herein had pointed out the gun for extorting the money. Due to such activities done by the applicant and his associates, the deceased had suffered a shock and thereby suffered the cardiological failure and had died on the spot. 44. Therefore, in the considered opinion of this Court, it can't be said no offence whatsoever is made out against the applicant herein, warranting quashing of the entire proceedings of the instant case against the applicant. Therefore, this Court does not find any good reason to entertain the instant application and the same is according dismissed. However, it is open for the trial court to take all relevant factors, into considerations, at the appropriate stage, while framing the charges looking at the entire material available on record. Order Date :- 04 October, 2024
 
Shubham Arya
 

 
(Anish Kumar Gupta, J.)