Hon'ble Saurabh Lavania,J. ( As per Anil Kumar, J.)
 
	Heard Sri Anil Kumar Tiwari, Senior Counsel assisted by Sri Aditya Tiwari, learned counsel for the petitioner, Sri Brijesh Kumar Shukla, learned counsel for opposite party no.1 and Sri Savtra Vardhan Singh, learned counsel for opposite party no.2. In the instant writ petition the petitioner has challenged the order of dismissal dated 14.02.2000 passed by Lucknow University, Lucknow and order dated 30.09.2000 passed by the Chancellor, Lucknow University, Lucknow. The petitioner was dismissed from the post of Lecturer in Commercial Arts in the College of Arts and Crafts, Lucknow. The allegations of molestation with a girl student are the basis of order of dismissal. Facts, in brief, as submitted by Sri Anil Kumar Tiwari, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner are that petitioner was awarded Bachelors Degree in Fine Arts from the College of Arts & Crafts, Lucknow affiliated to Lucknow University. Thereafter petitioner was awarded Master's Degree in Fine Arts from Maharaja Sayaji Rao University, Baroda, State of Gujrat and he was appointed on the post of Lecturer in Commercial Arts on 16.10.1993 . He was confirmed on the post of Lecturer on 19.11.1994. The petitioner being the senior most Lecturer and having been found suitable was promoted as Head of Department of Commercial Arts. However, in most arbitrary manner services of the petitioner as Lecturer in Commercial Arts, College of Arts and Crafts, Lucknow by exercising the power under Statute 16.04 (b) (e) of the First Statutes of Lucknow Universities (hereinafter referred as ''Statutes') was dismissed by means of impugned order dated 14.02.2000 ( Anneure no.2 to the writ petition) passed by Lucknow University, Lucknow. Without considering the facts of the case in its true spirit and ignoring the prescribed procedure under the Statutes for imposing major punishment the petitioner was dismissed. The order of dismissal was passed in violation of principles of natural justice .The Chancellor also failed to appreciate the fact of the case and also did not consider that the order dated 14.02.2000 has been passed in violation of procedure prescribed under the Statues for imposing major punishment while passing the order dated 30.09.2000. Learned counsel for the petitioner while challenging the impugned orders further submits that the same are not in consonance with Statute 8.10 read with statue 16.04, which provides that a teacher of the University may be dismissed or removed or terminated on one or more grounds specified therein. He further submits that order of dismissal is not in accordance with the Statute 16.06 which provides no order of dismissing, removing or terminating the services of a teacher of the University on any ground mentioned in clause (1) of Statute 16.04 ( except in the case of a conviction for an offence involving moral turpitude or of abolition of post) shall be passed unless charges has been framed against the teacher and communicated to him with a statement of the grounds on which it is proposed to take action and he has been given adequate opportunity to the concerned teacher to submit his written statement in his defence, personal hearing and to call upon and examining the witness in his defense. In order to emphasis his arguments he has placed reliance on Statute 8.10,16.04 and 16.06. Statute 8.10 reads as under:- Statue 16.04 reads as under:- Provided that where the University dismisses or removes or terminates the services of a teacher of the University under clause (1) , or when the teacher terminates the contract for breach of any of its terms laid down by the University , no such notice shall be necessary: Provided that the Executive Council or an officer authorized by it to conduct the enquiry may, for sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing , refuse to call any witness. (2) The Executive Council may , at any time ordinarily within two months from the date of inquiry officer's report pass a resolution dismissing or removing the teacher concerned from service or terminating his services mentioning the ground of such dismissal , removal or termination. (3) The resolution shall forthwith be communicated to the teacher concerned. (4) The Executive Council may, instead of dismissing removing or terminating the services of the teacher, pass a resolution inflicting a lesser punishment by reducing the pay of the teacher for a specified period not exceeding three years and or by stopping increments of his salary for a specified period or may deprive the teacher of his pay during the period of his suspension, if any." Sri Anil Kumar Tiwari, learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that from the perusal of Statue 16.04 it transpires that the some ground (s) provides on which a teacher of the University may be dismissed, removed or terminated. He further stated that from the bare perusal of Statue 16.06 it transpires that no order of dismissing, removing or terminating the services of a teacher of the University on any ground mentioned in clause (1) of Statute 16.04 (except in the case of conviction for an offence involving moral turpitude or of abolition of post) shall be passed unless a charge has been framed against the teacher and communicated to him . Accordingly ,it is submitted by Sri Anil Kumar Tiwari, learned counsel for the petitioner that a combined reading of Statute 16.04 and Statue 16.06 the position which emerge out is that in order to dismissing, removing or terminating the service of a teacher of the University, charges should be framed and charge-sheet is required to be issued to the concerned teacher but in the present case neither charges were framed nor charge-sheet was issued to the petitioner. He also submitted that after constitution of Disciplinary Committee on 01.12.1998 no charge-shseet was ever issued to the petitioner and he was informed of constitution of the Disciplinary Committee vide letter dated 26.7.1999 whereby he was directed to appear before the committee on 29.7.1999. He further submitted that in the present case Disciplinary Committee was constituted on 01.12.1998 and the petitioner was required to appear before the committee on 29.7.1999 which consist of Professor R.R. Verma, Vice- Chancellor, Dr. Amrit Dass, Director Institute of Career Studies, Lucknow and Sr. D.S. Bhatnagar, Retd. D.G.P., U.P. Lucknow. Prior to direction issued by the competent authority to the petitioner to appear before the Disciplinary Committee, neither charges were framed nor any charge-sheet was given nor any material was supplied to him in order to defend his case. However, petitioner appeared before Disciplinary Committee and on the said date his statement was recorded by the Disciplinary Committee but the documents which were placed before the Disciplinary Committee were not given to the petitioner nor he was allowed to confront with the persons whose statements were recorded by the Disciplinary Committee. Accordingly, it is submitted by Sri Anil Kumar Tiwari, learned counsel for the petitioner that regular inquiry, which was/is required in order to take action as per the provisions of Statute 16.06 was not carried out prior to passing of the order of dismissal. He further submitted that Disciplinary Committee had made two recommendations i.e. dismissal of the petitioner and investigation by CID ( Crime Branch). On behalf of the petitioner it is also submitted that no report of Disciplinary Committee was served on the petitioner and straightaway order of dismissal dated 14.02.2000 was served on the petitioner without issuing any show cause notice. Feeling aggrieved against the order dated 14.02.2000 ( Annexure no.2 ) the petitioner had preferred a representation under Section 68 of the U.P. State Universities Act, 1973 to the Chancellor of the University. The Chancellor of the University passed an order dated 30.09.2000 ( Annexure no.1) thereby rejected the representation of the petitioner by way of non-speaking order. In nut shell, learned counsel for the petitioner has assailed the impugned order(s) dated 14.2.2000 passed by the University, by which the petitioner was dismissed and order dated 30.9.2000, by which Chancellor of the University had rejected the representation of the petitioner, on the following grounds :- Leaned counsel for the petitioner submitted that all steps to be followed in a departmental enquiry. In this regard he has placed reliance on the following judgments:- On the point in issue that delinquent employee is required to be afforded reasonable opportunity to cross-examine the witness and produce the witness in his defence he relied on the following judgments:- Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that delinquent should be provided a copy of the enquiry report . On the point in issue he has relied the following judgment:- In the matter of departmental enquiry the High Court can only look into the procedural aspects of the case and cannot enter into fact finding. On this point he has relied the following judgment:- Accordingly, it is submitted by Sri Savitra Vardhan Singh that the writ petition filed by the petitioner lacks merit and is liable to be dismissed. Sri Brijesh Kumar Shukla, learned counsel for opposite party no.1 submitted that in the present case petitioner appeared before the Disciplinary Committee on 29.7.1999 on the said date his statement was recorded and he had put his signature on the statement before the Disciplinary Committee. Taking into consideration the said facts as well as the other facts the Chancellor has rightly passed the order dated 30.9.2000 (Annexure no.1) thereby rejecting the representation of the petitioner under section 68 of the Act. So there is no illegality or infirmity in the impugned orders passed by opposite parties as such the writ petition filed by the petitioner liable to be dismissed. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and gone through the record. It order to decide the controversy we feel appropriate to consider the " human dignity" and its importance. What is Dignity? Dignity is the quality of being honourable, noble, excellent or worthy. With a human regarded as the most supreme living creature, dignity, in its appealing sense, is better referred to as human dignity. It is the conceptual basis for the formulation and execution of human rights and is neither granted by the society nor can it be legitimately granted by the society. An imperative implication of human dignity is that every human being should be regarded as a very invaluable member of the community with a uniquely free expression of their right to life, integrated bodily attributes and their spiritual nature . Human dignity is a sense of self-worth. Therefore, dignity is a sense of pride in oneself that a human being has with them. This conscious sense makes them feel that they deserve respect and honour from other human beings. Many scholars argue that if a human being is in a humiliating or compromising situation then this is a major threat to their dignity. However, other human persons may still assert that they have dignity even though they find themselves in such situations. All in all, humans deserve dignity not because of their lifelong achievements but by the fact they are already human beings . Three Perspectives of Human Dignity
 
	The question of human dignity has hit the headlines world over in the recent past. The pre-colonial period has been used as the base reference for crimes against humanity and abuse of human dignity, thence redefinition of the term human dignity by international law courts and the United Nations. Human dignity has been defined from the philosophical, religious and legalistic perspectives. The deep philosophical roots of the term human dignity were articulated by Emmanuel Kant, a great philosopher of the famous late Enlightenment. He is considered as the source of the now contemporary concept of human dignity. He holds that the fundamental principle behind moral duties of human beings is a categorical imperative. According to Kant, imperative means that it commands us to exercise our wills in a particular way. As a result, human beings with respect for human dignity should not possess any irrational wills against their fellow human beings and the generally acceptable societal norms and values. And according to Emmanuel Kant, the only thing we should will about is our happiness as human beings. Once we have happiness we'll be able to enjoy good health and nourish proper relationships. Human dignity should operate on the basis of volitional principles or maxims. Hence, the basic rational requirements and morality should be the primary demands that apply to these maxims which motivate all our actions. Human dignity has also been developed along the lines of religious, theological and ethical perspectives. Christian and Islam views make up this perspective at large. According to the Christians, the Bible reveals that God not only created the human nature but also endowed man with unique qualities after creating man in His own image and likeness . It is from this basis that we can deduce that the human nature deserves a very inherent dignity. According to the Russian Orthodox Church's basic teaching on the issue of human dignity, God has endowed all human beings in a very generous manner by distributing His gifts equally such that His showing of human dignity, nature and abundance of His unending grace remains undisputable. Owing to the fact that Jesus Christ offered His life as a ransom for sin and the sinful nature of human beings, human dignity was lifted at its best, hence it should be respected. The Bible also asserts that life according to the desires of the flesh that don't withstand respect for other human beings is loss of and abuse of human dignity. The Islam Texts Society puts forth the idea that human dignity is the basis of human rights. Several references are drawn from the Holy Quran which indicates that a human being deserves dignity as a result of their physical and spiritual nobility. The Quran says that God's love for humanity is immense, the sanctity for human life immeasurable, the necessity for freedom a prerequisite thus restating the need for human equality and accountability for all acts done to humanity (Kamali, H, M, 1999) . For this reason, Sharia Laws have been developed to help in protecting human dignity and also promote a high level of social interaction. Since God has honoured mankind by His great love, human beings should also reciprocate the same and show their love and respect for their fellow human beings. In other words, dignity is not earned by the meritorious conduct which is an expression of the favour and grace of God towards human beings. The legal perspective of the concept of human dignity was coined at the end of the Second World War. It has been regarded as the central perspective that discourses human rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that all humans have been born with equality in dignity and rights. For this reason, they are endowed with enough reason and pure conscience, hence should acts towards one another with a deep spirit of brotherhood. In its preamble, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights seeks for recognition and respect for the inherent dignity as well as the equal and inalienable rights of every member of the human dignity despite where they come from, their religious beliefs or background history. Drafters of this perspective add that the human person possesses many rights because of the fact they have been born as a person, wholly, a master and manager of oneself in many aspects (Frame Tom, 2007). Therefore, all human beings deserve to be treated with utmost dignity. International Law, in pointing out the contempt of and disregard for human dignity says that abuse of human rights has resulted in numerous barbarous acts that have completely outraged the pure conscience of mankind. Digging deep the question of human dignity has led to the coining of and questions in aspects of human liberty, equality and fraternity because many people died and suffered in the hands of their fellow human beings during the war. Definition of Sexual Harssment
 
	Sexual harassment is defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when either: The matter was discussed in the meeting of the Executive Council for discussion as Item no.1 of the agenda for the meeting of 01.12.1998. Under the Lucknow University Statue, the Executive Council decided to constitute a Disciplinary Committee to enqire into matter. Besides the Vice Chancellor, the two other members of the Committee were as below: Allegation: Brief facts of the case
 
................................. ................................ Gyanesh has said in his statement that photography had been his subject and that he also made portraits. Renu had come to his residence and asked for Prem who was staying with him those days. He (Gyanesh) had gone to take bath and when he came out, he saw that she had changed her dress to his ''banyan' and slacks. Prem told Gyanesh that she was insisting on being photographed. Gyanesh did not have a film but prem proposed to him to do a bluff by flashing the empty camera so that she would go. As she posed,Gyanesh told her to lift the ''banyan' further up. She raised it above the breasts. Gyanesh thrice flashed the camera. Gyanesh had pressed her breasts. She complained to Prem about Gyanesh having misbehaved with her. After that she went away. Sri Gyanesh, in his statement before the present Committee said that his statement had been recorded under threat. The Committee also examined the enquiry officer who stated that the statement was recorded as was stated by Gyanesh and that it was read out and then handed over to him to read, and he had read then only signed it, and that there was no reason for the statement being wrongly recorded. Report: 2.These allegations by victim girl make out ingredients of serious congizable crime. Even the first written complaint to Senior Superintendent of Police, Lucknow by Renu Singh of having been exposed for objectionable photos and threatened were sufficient to constitute F.I.R. of a criminal case and Senior Superintendent of Police had rightly reacted by making clear orders for "S.O. Aliganj to lodge F.I.R.". Had the subordinate staff of levels of S.O. and C.O. duly registered and investigated , the matter would not have prolonged. As it is , the case was not registered and investigated and, after being fed for about three months on vain expectations from local police that the photos and negatives would be secured to her, the story temporarily ended there. 3. Apparently, the complainant herself also had not been keen on police investigation and her interest in reporting to police was limited to her photos and negatives being secured to her. She did not mention in any of her written complaints about having been rendered unconscious through to intake in her tea cup and even of the more serious incident about having been severely beaten to extent of rib-fractures and having been forced to be videographed in bathing scene. 	However, this does not lead to dismissal of her version. For an unmarried girl-complainant in such a case, it was only natural to be primarily concerned and upset about her objectionable photos and negatives being in hand of others who could anytime blackmail her. 4. Afterwards, when the complaint had joined the University as a student of Arts College where Gyanesh Shukla was a Lecturer, she re-invoked the complaints as students alleging organised activity of sex exploitation of girls by a College Lecturer, whereupon enquiry was started by a lady police gazetted officer but, before the enqiry was completed, the complainant gave in writing to police withdrawing her complaint. After sometime, she petitioned to the Vice Chancellor that she had given in writing to police for withdrawal of her complaint because she felt that the enquiry was being conducted in open manner without maintaining confidentiality and she desired that secret enquiry by C.B.I. should be made on her complaints. The Vice-Chancellor sent up the complaints to State Government, Home Department, recommending enquiry by C.B.I. 5. The allegation by Renu Singh make out an organised crime in society and, in the chain of persons alleged against, there is also the link of Gyanesh Shukla. The C.B.I. is a Central Government Organization and normally deals with economic offences pertaining to subjects of Central Government. It would be proper if the case is dealt with as a crime by the Criminal Investigation Department (Crime Branch) of the State, which is the appropriate agency for the purpose. A substantial spade-work has been already done by the police under Senior Superintendent of Police, Lucknow and confidential report prepared, which would help CID(CB) to make the work easier and quicker. The culprits , whoever they be, should be dealt with according to law. 6. There is one aspect of the matter which needs to be also considered. Renu Singh has stated that the first and last act of misbehavior by Gyanesh Shukla with her was on 18.05.96. During police enquiry, Gyanesh Shukla, in reference to same incident, is on record for having stated that when he had exposed Renu Singh to camera lens, he asked her to lift up the 'banyan' and upon her having lifted the same higher up her breasts, he had pressed her breasts, which was objected to by her. When examined by the present Committee, Gyanesh said that his statement, in course of police enquiry was made under threat. He could give no explanation as to how an educated person of his status could agree to sign that statement. The Committee examined the lady police officer who had the statement recorded and she stated there was no question of any pressure or threat and only what he had stated had been recorded and after recording his statement, the same was read over to him and also handed over to him to read which he had read and thereafter he had signed it of his own free will. The denial of his own recorded and signed statement by Gyanesh Shukla is far from convincing. Such behavior by a University Lecturer, even at his private residential premises and even with an outside girl is self- admitted act of misconduct and moral turpitude. Conclusion: Recommendation: In the present case, no charge-sheet was given to the petitioner as per the provisions as provided under Statute 16.06(1) and there is some infirmity in conducting the enquiry as per the provisions as provided under Statute 16.06. on the basis of recommendation of Disciplinary Committee, petitioner was dismissed vide order dated 14.02.2000 and the same was confirmed vide order dated 30.09.2000." In the facts of the present case, we feel appropriate to mention few shlokas and couplets related to the greatness and importance of the "Guru" 1.	Gurur-brahma Gurur- vishnu Gurur-devo maheshwarah,
 
	Guru Sakshat Para brahma tasmai shri Guruve namah. 2. 	Dhyan moolam Gurur-murti pooja moolam Guror-padam,
 
	Mantra Moolam Gurur-vakyam moksha moolam Gurur Kripa. 3.	Guru Govind Dono Khade Kake Lagoon paye,
 
	Balihari Guru apne Govind Diyo bataye. 4.	Yeh tan vish ki belari Guru amrit ki khan
 
	Sheesh diya jo Guru mile to bhi sasta jaan. 5.	Sab dharti kagaz karu lekhani sab ban raye
 
	Saat samand ki mas karu Guru guna likhyo no jaye. 6.	Teerath gaye se ek phal, sant mile phal char
 
	Sad Guru mile anek phal kahe kabir vichar 7.	Guru binu bhav nidhi tarai na koi
 
	Jo viranchi Shankar sam hoi 8.	Guru bina gyan na upaje, Guru bina mite na bhed
 
	Guru bina sanshaya na mite jai jai gurudeva. 9.	Guru ko sir par rakhiye chaliya agya mahi
 
	Kahe kabir ta das ko teen lok bhay nahi 10.	Jaisi preet kutumb mein, taisi Guru mein hoye
 
	Kahe Kabir ta das ko pala na pakade koye 11.	Man ki jane sab Guru kahan chi pave andh
 
	Sad Guru seva keejiye sab kat jave phand. 12.	Nank Sad Guru bhentiya mal janam janam de lathe
 
	Aoukhee gharree n dhaekhan dhaee Sad Guru apne biradh 	samaalae 13.	Guru bina bhajan haram hai Guru bin dete dhaan
 
	Bina Guru narak mein jayi hai, kehte ved puran. 14.	Guru ki aur nihariye, auran syon kya kaam
 
	Guru updesh vichar kar, rakhiye mann ko tham. 15.	Guru se kuchh no duraiye, Guru se jhooth na bol
 
	Buri-bhali khoti-khari Guru aage sab khol. 16.	Nigura mo ko na mile, paapi mile hazar
 
	Ik nigure ke sheesh pe, lakh-paapi ka bhar. 17.	Kabir te nar andh hai, Guru ko kehate aur,
 
	Hari roothe Guru thaur hai, Guru roothe nahi thaur. 18.	Guru agya mane nahin, chale atpati chal,
 
	Lok Veda dono gaye, aaye siir par kaal. In regard to relationship between teacher/ Guru and the students, the Bombey High Court in the case of Shashikant B. Kulkarni (prof.) Vs. Principal, BPCS College of Physical Education and other, (2008) 110 (5) Bom LR 1819 after placing reliance on supreme court's judgment(s) has observed as under:- 56. In the same paragraph, it is further observed thus: 57. In the same judgement, further giving the background as to why in our Indian society, teachers are placed on the pedestal below the parents, the Supreme Court has observed thus:-- 58. In another judgement delivered by the Supreme Court in the case of ( Manager, Nirmala Senior Secondary School, Port Blair v. N.I. Khan ), reported in 2003 DGLS 244 (soft): 2003 (12) S.C.C. 84: A.I.R. 2004 S.C. 499 regarding the importance of the character of a teacher, the Supreme Court has observed thus:-- 59. Particularly when we are concerned with teachers employed for teaching girl students, the teacher by his character and conduct must exhibit and justify the status so given to him by the Indian society, especially when such a teacher is a male. In the same judgement in Avinash Nagra (supra), the Supreme Court has observed thus:-- 60. We are constrained, in view of the aforesaid aspects of the matter, to observe that the charges proved against the petitioner, are very serious in nature and do not befit "a teacher".The observations of the Supreme Court made in paragraph 10 of the decision in Manager, Nirmala Senior Secondary School (supra) set out hereunder should not be overlooked:-- In view to status of a "Guru" in Indian society , the Guru/Teacher" is required to maintain highest level of "ethical standards" and "integrity", which includes social and moral standards and he should be a role model of students and society. The purpose of highest level of ethical standards for teaching profession are (i) to inspire members of the society to reflect and uphold the honour and dignity of the teaching profession, (ii) to identifying the ethical responsibilities and commitments in the teaching profession, (iii) to guide ethical decision and action in teaching profession and (iv) to promote public trust and confidence in teaching profession. Any short coming in the highest level of "Ethical Standards" and "Integrity", a Guru/Teacher is unbecoming of "Guru/Teacher. From the pleadings on record including the report of the Disciplinary Committee , the relevant portion of which is quoted herein above, and also from the original record to which we have gone through the position which culled out is to the effect that :- Keeping in view the basic principle "Audi Alterum Partem" and the aforesaid,we have to consider whether in the facts and circumstances of the present case, which is the case related to a Teacher/Guru and students the opportunity provided to the petitioner before passing the order of punishment was / is justified or not? The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Hira Nath Mishra and others Vs. The Principal, Rajender Medical College, Ranchi and another , (1973) 1 SCC 895 ,wherein the facts are to the effect that for finding out the veracity of the allegations made by the girls students in the complaint the Committee of three persons was constituted. The Committee recorded the statement(s) of female student(s) and thereafter statement(s) of male student(s) were recorded, who denied the allegations before the Committee, and thereafter Committee came to the conclusion that the male student(s) were guilty of gross misconduct and on the basis of conclusion arrived by the Committee the male students were expelled.The order of expulsion was challenged in the writ proceedings on the ground. The High Court dismissed the writ petition. The judgment of the High Court was challenged before the Hon'ble Apex Court. While dismissing the appeal, the Hon'ble Apex court observed as follows:- Rules of natural justice cannot remain the same applying to all conditions. We know of statutes in India like the Goonda Acts which permit evidence being collected behind the back of the goonda and the goonda being merely asked to represent against the main charges arising out of the evidence collected. Care is taken to see that the witnesses who gave statements would not be identified. In such cases there is no question of the witnesses being called and the goonda being given an opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses. The reason is obvious. No witness will come forward to give evidence in the presence of the goonda. However unsavory the procedure may appear to a. judicial mind, these are facts of life which are to be faced. The girls who were molested that night would not have come forward to give evidence in any regular enquiry and if a strict enquiry like the one conducted in a court of law were to be imposed in such matters, the girls would have had to go under the constant fear of molestation by the male students who were capable of such indecencies. Under the circumstances the course followed by the Principal was a wise one. The Committee whose integrity could not be impeached, collected and sifted the evidence given by the girls. Thereafter the students definitely named by the girls were informed about the complaint against them and the charge. They were given an opportunity to state their case. We do not think that the facts and circumstances of this case require anything more to be done." In the light of the observations made by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the Judgment passed in the case of Hira Nath Mishra (supra), we have considered the facts and circumstances of the case,which relates to a Teacher/Guru and Students, mentioned herein above in nutshell, including the fact that before the Disciplinary Committee the petitioner never objected the procedure followed by the Disciplinary Committee and after due consideration, we are of the view that in given situation an adequate opportunity was provided by the Disciplinary Committee to the petitioner. Thus, we are of the view that on account of the plea based on Statute 16.06, the impugned orders are not liable to be interfered. Another point which is to be considered is that whether on the basis of report of C.B.C.I.D., the order of punishment dated 14.02.2000 and order dated 30.09.2000 passed by Chancellor are liable to be interfered. This is on the basis of arguments raised by learned counsel for the petitioner that on the recommendation of the Disciplinary Committee, matter was referred to C.B.C.I.D. and in its report dated 22.07.2003 the C.B.C.I.D. has stated that there is no hope of success even if an F.I.R. is lodged as no evidence has come to the light to successfully prosecute the petitioner as such the investigation was closed and accordingly the dismissal order is unjust. Needless to say that it is settled principle of law that in disciplinary proceedings the order of punishment can be passed on preponderance of probability and in criminal proceedings the order of punishment can be passed only if charge is proved beyond doubt. Hon'ble the Apex Court in the case of Shashi Bhushan Prasad Vs. Inspector General Central Industrial Security Force and others, AIR 2019 SC 3586 after taking into consideration the earlier judgments on the point in issue has held as under:- 18. The exposition has been further affirmed by a three Judge Bench of this Court in Ajit Kumar Nag Vs. General Manager (PJ), Indian Oil Corporation Limited, Haldia and Others ,2005 (7) SCC 764, this Court held as under: - A Division Bench of this Court in the case of Sukh Ram Vs. State of U.P. and others , 2018 (4) ESC 1772 after taking into consideration the various judgments on the point in issue has held as under:- 19.1. When charge(s) of misconduct is proved in an enquiry the quantum of punishment to be imposed in a particular case is essentially the domain of the departmental authorities; 19.2. The Courts cannot assume the function of disciplinary/departmental authorities and to decide the quantum of punishment and nature of penalty to be awarded, as this function is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the competent authority; 19.3. Limited judicial review is available to interfere with the punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority, only in cases where such penalty is found to be shocking to the conscience of the Court; 19.4. Even in such a case when the punishment is set aside as shockingly disproportionate to the nature of charges framed against the delinquent employee, the appropriate course of action is to remit the matter back to the disciplinary authority or the appellate authority with direction to pass appropriate order of penalty. The Court by itself cannot mandate as to what should be the penalty in such a case. 19.5. The only exception to the principle stated in para 19.4 above, would be in those cases where the co-delinquent is awarded lesser punishment by the disciplinary authority even when the charges of misconduct were identical or the co-delinquent was foisted with more serious charges. This would be on the Doctrine of Equality when it is found that the concerned employee and the co-delinquent are equally placed. However, there has to be a complete parity between the two, not only in respect of nature of charge but subsequent conduct as well after the service of charge sheet in the two cases. If the co-delinquent accepts the charges, indicating remorse with unqualified apology, lesser punishment to him would be justifiable. In view of the above settled proposition of law, the arguments based on report of C.B.C.I.D., in our view, have got no force, accordingly rejected. For the forgoing reasons, the writ petition lacks merit and is dismissed. No order as to cost. (Saurabh Lavania,J.) (Anil Kumar,J.)
 
Order Date :- 16.11.2019
 
dk