DINESH KUMAR SHARMA,J : d. Due to the policy framework, where one manufacturer could
 only choose one wholesaler gave the manufacturers' a very
 critical position to decide the profits of the wholesale
 businesses. Though the manufacturers seemingly were
 supposed to take this crucial decision on their own as per their
 choice, but, this investigation has revealed that Pernod Ricard
 (one of the Accused), one of the biggest manufacturers in the
 country, also a subject of the ongoing investigation, was in fact
 directed by and conspired with Sh Vijay Nair to give their
 wholesale distribution business to the accused M/s Indo Spirits
 (L1 wholesaler), which is a part of the Super Cartel including
 Sh. Abhishek Boinpally. e. Sh Vijay Nair, who has orchestrated this entire scam is not an
 ordinary worker of the AAP but a close associate of Sh Arvind BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 11 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 Kejriwal, the CM of Delhi and was closely interacting with the
 Dy CM for the Excise policy related matters. Sh Vijay Nair, as
 per his statement under section 50 of PMLA, 2002 functions
 from the camp office of Sh Arvind Kejriwal, CM, Delhi.
 Further, Sh Vijay Nair, since 2020, has been residing in the
 Govt bungalow allotted to a Cabinet Minister of Delhi Govt, Sh
 Kailash Gehlot, part of GoM of Excise Policy 2021-22. Sh
 Vijay Nair, does not have any other residence in Delhi. Irony
 being, Sh Gehlot lives at another private residence in
 Najafgarh. f. Sh Vijay Nair had arranged meeting of the owner/controller of
 Indo Spirits Sh Sameer Mahandru, with Sh Arvind Kejriwal,
 CM, Delhi and when that didn't materialise, he arranged a
 video call through facetime on his phone for Sh Sameer and Sh
 Arvind Kejriwal, where Sh Arvind said to Sh Sameer that, Vijay
 is his boy and that Sh Sameer should trust him and carry on
 with him. These facts are relevant to mention so as to establish
 the abatement of his actions in relation to the Excise Policy
 scam, by the political leaders of the AAP. g. Sh Vijay Nair, is Incharge of Media and Communication for the
 AAP, had no role in the Delhi Govt. in fact acted as a
 broker/liaison/middlemen on behalf of the top leaders of the
 AAP for getting bribes/kickbacks from various stakeholders in
 the Delhi Liquor business in exchange of favourable outcomes
 (policy changes) in the Excise Policy of 2021-22, which was
 being drafted at that time. He even threatened the stakeholders BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 12 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 who were not agreeing to his demands that he changes
 suitable/desired by them may not go through entirely if they do
 not concede to his demands. h. Sh Vijay Nair, in connivance with Sh Dinesh Arora and through
 him with Sh Amit Arora, has also arm twisted a wholesaler to
 surrender the L1 license and then coerced the manufacturers
 surrendered through that license to choose the wholesalers of
 his choice and favour to direct the profit margins to his co-
 conspirators, so that there was complete control on the
 kickbacks to be extracted. i. Sh Vijay Nair, on behalf of leaders of AAP has received
 kickbacks to the tune of Rs. 100 Cr from a group, for
 convenience, we may call it the South Group (as termed in the
 statements of various persons recorded during the
 investigation), whose prominent persons are Sh Magunta
 Srinivasulu Reddy, Sh Raghav Magunta, Sh Sarath Reddy and
 Ms K Kavitha. The South Group was represented by Sh
 Abhishek Boinpally, Sh Arun Pillai and Sh Buchi Babu. Sh
 Abhishek Boinpalli facilitated the transfer of Rs. 100 Cr
 kickback in connivance and conspiracy with Sh Vijay Nair and
 his associate Sh Dinesh Arora. j. Investigation of the trail of this kickback so far has revealed
 that part of these funds were used in the election campaign of
 the AAP for Goa Assembly elections 2022. Cash payments to
 the tune of Rs. 70 lacs were made to the volunteers who were
 part of the survey teams. Sh Vijay Nair himself has told certain BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 13 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 persons involved in the campaign related work to receive the
 payments in cash. Advertisment/hoarding related work were
 directed to raise only part of the claims in the bill and receive
 the remaining in cash. These part cash payments were managed
 through Hawala Channels. Teams led by Sh Vijay Nair have
 directed certain firms to even issue bogus invoices.
 k. These kickbacks were paid in advance to the AAP leaders
 through Vijay Nair by the South Group as a part of agreement
 between the South Group and the AAP leaders. Against the
 kickbacks paid, the south group secured uninhibited access,
 undue favours, attained stakes in established wholesale
 businesses and multiple retail zones (over and above what was
 allowed in the policy). In one of the ways to recover/recoup the
 kickbacks given by the South Group, partners of the South
 group were given 65% stakes in Indo Spirits in collusion with
 the accused Sh Sameer Mahandru. The South group controlled
 these stakes in Indo Spirits, through false representation,
 concealment of true ownership and proxies i.e. Sh Arun Pillai
 and Sh Prem Rahul. This partnership formation was directed by
 Sh Vijay Nair on the assurance of giving the wholesale business
 of Pernod Ricard to Indo Spirits. l. The gravity and depth of this criminal conspiracy is such that to
 grant L1 wholesale license to Indo Spirits despite various
 complaints highlighting Sameer's and Indospirit Marketing Pvt
 Ltd's role in cartelisation, when Sameer submitted a fresh
 application in a different name of Indo Spirits, the Dy CM, BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 14 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 Delhi, Sh Manish Sisodia himself directed the Excise
 Commissioner to grant the license on priority. m. Pernod Ricard, is one of the accused in the instant case, which
 through Sh Benoy Babu and others, in conspiracy with the
 super cartel and Sh Vijay Nair gave their wholesale business to
 Indo Spirits. The Excise Policy 2021-22 required the
 manufacturers to register their brands at the Lowest EDP net of
 all discount/commission/rebate of any nature whatsoever,
 however, Pernod Ricard by way of conspiracy has got their
 price fixed without deducting the discounts/rebates they offer
 thus getting a much higher price fixed for their brands and thus
 earning a huge additional profit which was ineligible to them
 and should have been passed to the consumers as lower MRP.
 If the manufacturer had registered the brands at actually lowest
 EDP, the capacity of the manufacturers to give out credit notes
 would have been limited. However, Pernod Ricard paid Rs.
 131.9 Crores credit notes to the retailers via the wholesalers,
 where the benefit of discounts was shifted to the retailers
 instead of the actual consumer at large. n. That, in order to create a device for continuous payment of
 kickbacks to Sh Vijay Nair, an unheard of margin of 12% was
 provided to the private wholesalers (L1s) contrary to the
 recommendations of the Expert Committee headed by Sh Ravi
 Dhawan, IAS and then Excise Commissioner which as detailed
 below, suggested for a single Govt entity as Wholesaler for
 Delhi. On this account, the Govt lost the revenue of 12% Rs. 581 cr. that would have accrued to it in case the Expert
 Committee recommendations were accepted by the Govt, which
 in the subject policy was assigned to the Pvt. Players, only to
 fill the personal coffers of the leaders of AAP. This loss to the
 Govt exchequer actually got illegally diverted into ostentatious
 profits to the wholesalers including the accused M/s Indo
 Spirits, which was used to recoup the kickbacks paid in advance
 by the South group. o. The South Group directly and indirectly controlled 9 retail
 zones, which included 5 retail zones of Sh Sarath Reddy
 (accused no). In some cases the control was via financing of the
 EMD (Earnest Money Deposit) for the L7 tender process.
 ostensible investments, relatives/dummies/proxies. Apart from
 the direct profits accruing from the wholesale business of Indo
 Spirits, modus operandi for recovering the kickback paid in
 advance by the South group, monies in the form of outstanding
 from the ostensible sales from the wholesale of Indo Spirit to
 Retail of the South group with an understanding that the
 outstanding was not to be recovered and the amount will be
 shown as recoverable in the books of account. Sh Sarath
 Reddy's controlled entities owed over Rs. 60 Cr (approx.) to
 Indo Spirits, which is shown as outstanding but was not meant
 to be recovered as part of the conspiracy. p. The retail business was lucrative and the turnover was huge on
 daily basis. Further, the retail sales were in cash and not credit
 based, meaning thereby the generation of funds/recovery of the BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 16 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 purchase cost was immediate. Thus, there was no valid reason
 for not repaying the outstanding towards the wholesaler either
 on the same day or soonest after. q. Another novel method of recovery of the kickbacks was through
 passing of Credit Notes. Ordinarily the credit notes are passed
 to the person who had direct nexus with or has sold the goods,
 however, in this business, the manufacturers were giving credit
 notes to the retailers with whom they had no direct transactions
 with. Further, there was no apparent reason to give credit notes
 to businesses which are minting money with MRP being 3 times
 of the cost and having profit margin of 185% approx. The fact
 that the credit notes were an eyewash to transfer money
 illegally to pay kickbacks is evident from the fact that the
 ostensible reason of volume based credit notes was bogus and
 credit notes have been passed in an inconsistent manner
 considering the sale volume. For example, Pernod Ricard has
 not given any credit notes to M/s Adharv Enterprises (not a
 favoured L7) against the volume of 19,080 cases purchased in
 the months of Dec, 2021 Jan, 22 and Feb 22. However, Pernod
 Ricard has given Rs. 61.01 lakhs as credit notes to M/s
 Organomix Ecosystems Pvt. Ltd. (which is part of the South
 Group cartel) who has purchased 17,644 cases during the said
 3 months." 4. The role of the Petitioner has been discussed in detail in the complaint
 filed by ED and is not been discussed here for the sake of brevity. B. SUBMISSIOINS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER 5. Sh. Mukul Rohatgi, Sr. Advocate, Sh. Siddharth Luthra, Sr. Advocate
 with Sh. Madhav Khurana, learned Advocate on behalf of the petitioner
 have submitted that the petitioner is a mere employee being a Regional
 Manager of Pernod Ricard India (PRI). It has been submitted that PRI
 has a global presence and there are several level of employees over the
 petitioner and the Supreme board of companies is the Board of
 Directors. 6. It has been submitted that neither the Petitioner nor the Company is an
 accused in the Chargesheet dated 24.11.2022 filed by the CBI and
 petitioner was only a witness in the predicate offence, therefore, the
 petitioner has no role in the main predicate offence. 7. It has been submitted that the petitioner and the company have wrongly
 been arrayed/added as an accused in the Supplementary Prosecution
 Complaint dated 06.01.2023 filed by the E.D. 8. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the Petitioner is
 not guilty of money laundering as defined in Section 3 read with Section 2(1)(u) of the Act. It has been submitted that no money in any
 form or manner has been given to the Petitioner by anybody and the
 Petitioner has accordingly not "laundered" any money. 9. Reliance has been placed on Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary V/s Union of
 India reported in 2022 SCC Online SC 929 wherein it was held that it
 is only such property which is derived or obtained, directly or
 indirectly, as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled
 offence can be regarded as proceeds of crime. 10. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner further submitted that a
 conjoint reading of Section 3 of PMLA with Section 2(1)(u) of the
 PMLA shows that the Section 2(1)(u) defines PoC as that property
 derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of
 criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence. It was submitted that
 therefore, first there must be scheduled offence, from which proceeds
 of crime must be generated and it is only that person who assists in the
 generation of PoC or its concealment, possession, acquisition, use or
 projection or claiming it as untainted property can be held liable for
 committing the offence of Money laundering. It has been submitted
 that the allegation of grant of Corporate Guarantee by PRI to the other
 accused persons does not fall within the ambit of Proceeds of Crime
 (PoC) because the act of giving of Corporate Guarantee is not the
 alleged Scheduled Offence in the present case. 11. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that it is not the
 case of the ED that the funds of the Corporate Guarantee were derived
 or obtained as a result of a criminal activity. It was submitted that the
 grant of Corporate Guarantee is prior to even grant of the L7 licence by
 the Excise Department. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner
 submitted that role of E.D. commences post the commission of a crime,
 i.e. to investigate the proceeds generated from a crime and it's
 laundering and the Petitioner has no such link. 12. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the corporate
 guarantee of Rs. 200 Crores by the Company was granted through the
 Board of Directors in favor of 5 retailers. It has been submitted that
 extension of financial comfort can never be termed as a crime. It has BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 19 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 been submitted that the allegation that the hands of Indospirits (Sameer
 Mahandru-Wholesaler) were strengthened by grant of Corporate
 Guarantee is baseless. It has been submitted that the Petitioner got no
 money from anywhere and nor he has passed on any money to
 anybody. It has been submitted that it is Rs. 200 Crores worth of
 Corporate Guarantee by itself is not a PoC. This guarantee is based on
 the balance sheets of the Company. It has been submitted that the
 wholesaler may or may not sell products of PRI which will result in the
 profits to the Company and further the sale of products of PRI depends
 solely on the discretion of the customer. 13. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that in respect of
 the allegations of the E.D. that the petitioner got the copy of the draft of
 Excise Policy before it was announced can also not be termed as an
 offence under PMLA. It has been submitted that the leakage on media
 of various things is today an accepted position in society. It has been
 submitted that even in the ED's own case that the Excise Policy even
 before it was announced became viral. It has been submitted that
 obtaining and being privy to the Policy is not either PoC or laundering
 thereof. It has further been submitted that the Petitioner officially
 attended meetings called by the Delhi Government where various
 stakeholders were present. 14. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the M/s
 Indospirits was authorized by PRI on the basis of L1 license granted by
 the Excise Department. The appointment also can neither be termed as
 PoC and nor does it amount to money laundering. It has been
 submitted that the infact PRI had in his its comments to the BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 20 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 Government had stated that the wholesaler should be a Government
 agency while the manufacturer and the retailer could be private
 persons. This plea of the PRI was accepted by the Expert Committee.
 However, the wholesaler was also made as a private party by the
 Government. 15. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner is
 a mere employee in PRI and had no autonomy to take decisions solely
 at his end. It has been submitted that the E.D. has traversed beyond its
 jurisdiction as it cannot investigate allegations other than those which
 form part of the scheduled offence. Reliance has been placed upon Prakash Industries v. ED (II ), 2023 SCC Online Del 336. 16. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner
 is a witness in the scheduled offence and therefore being a witness, it is
 evident that the Agency investigating the Scheduled Offence has
 arrived at a conclusion that the Petitioner is in no form or manner
 involved in the commission of the scheduled offence. It has been
 submitted that the it is not the ED 's case that any part of the PoC has
 come to the Petitioner. Reliance has been placed upon: 17. It has been submitted that the petitioner has always cooperated in the
 investigation and is not a flight risk. It has been submitted that the
 petitioner has no authority to influence the witnesses or tamper with the
 evidence. 18. The learned senior counsels for the petitioner have placed reliance Vijay Madanlal Choudhary & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. 2022
 SCC OnLine SC 929 and Subramanian Swamy v. A. Raja (2012 9
 SCC 257) to buttress the point that merely attending the official
 meetings as PRI representative at the express invitation of Delhi Excise
 Department does not constitute any sought of criminality. 19. It has been submitted that in Subramanian Swamy (supra) it was inter
 alia held that Criminal conspiracy cannot be inferred on the mere fact
 that there were official discussions between the officers of the MoF and
 that of DoT and between two Ministers, which are all recorded. It has
 been submitted that suspicion, however, strong, cannot take the place
 of legal proof and the meeting. 20. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 petitioner Benoy Babu had prior knowledge of liquor policy 2021
 before it was made public which enabled Pernod Ricard to arrange
 finances even before the public announcement of the policy to create
 vehicle which was later on used for generating parking and use of
 proceeds of crime. 21. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 22 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 petitioner Benoy Babu was able to arrange and provide financial
 support to two companies (namely M/s Khao Gali and M/s Bubbly
 Beverages) who had no business at that time when Mr Benoy Babu
 chose them to give financial support, which were part of South Group
 and were expected to get L7 License. It has been submitted that the
 loan availed by M/s Bubbly Beverages even was further used for cross
 funding another entity of the South group. The financial support was in
 form of bank guarantee to these companies. It has been submitted that
 the financial support to other three companies were made in order to
 maximize control over retail market. It has been submitted that on the
 strength of the bank guarantees, the companies took loan of Rs.140
 Crore and as per the record, these companies not only availed the loan,
 but have not repaid full loan till the investigation was taken up by CBI
 & ED. 22. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 due to the financial support provided by Pernod Ricard, the 2 out these
 5 companies directly got the L7 license and 1 company used it from
 cross funding of the EMD of another South Group entity, further not
 only that, but they were also able to maximize their profit due to
 tailormade liquor policy which resulted in not only parking of proceeds
 of crime but also its use by other stake holders including the South
 Group. 23. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 there was an involvement of petitioner Benoy Babu in selecting M/s
 Indo Spirit as wholesale distributor of M/s Pernod Ricard at the
 instance of another prime accused Vijay Nair which have helped South BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 23 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 Group to recover the kickback given to leaders of AAP. 24. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 despite several complaints, Indospirits was given L-1 License. The
 letter appointing M/s Indo Spirits as its exclusive distributor to register
 and sell the brands mentioned in authorisation letter was signed by Sh.
 Benoy Babu. It is also the case of the ED the petitioner signed the letter
 even before the formal approval from the PRI. 25. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for the E.D. submitted that
 the financial support in the form of corporate guarantee in fact helped
 in formation of cartel of Pernod Ricard and thus received exponential
 financial gain. It has further been submitted that the petitioner was
 deeply involved in the conspiracy of the south group and facilitated
 their recoupment by his extended retail cartel formed through the
 financial support provided by M/s Pernod Ricard, which resulted in the
 huge profits accruing to M/s Indospirits. 26. Learned special counsel for the E.D. has placed reliance upon Vijay
 Madanlal Choudhary & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. 2022 SCC
 OnLine SC 929, Union of India v. Rattan Mallik (2009) 2 SCC 624,
 State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal ( 1987) 2 SCC 364, Y.
 S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. CBI (2013) 7 SCC 439, Anil Kumar Yadav
 v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2018) 12 SCC 129, Sunil Dhaiya v. State
 (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) (2016) SCC OnLine Del 5566 Nimmagadda
 Prasad v. CBI, ( 2013) 7 SCC 466, Gautam Kundu v. Directorate of
 Enforcement ( 2015) 16 SCC 1 and Rohit Tandon v. Directorate of
 Enforcement (2018) 11 SCC 46. D. FINDING AND ANALYSIS 27. The offence of money laundering has been defined in section 3 of the
 PMLA, which reads as under: 28. The 'proceeds of crime' has been defined under Section 2 (u) of PMLA,
 which reads as under: 29. In this regard the proceeds of crime and the scope and ambit of Section
 3 of PMLA has been well laid down in Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary (supra) wherein it has been held as under: 265. To put it differently, the section as it stood prior to 2019 had
 itself incorporated the expression "including", which is indicative
 of reference made to the different process or activity connected
 with the proceeds of crime. Thus, the principal provision (as also
 the Explanation) predicates that if a person is found to be directly
 or indirectly involved in any process or activity connected with the
 proceeds of crime must be held guilty of offence of money-
 laundering. If the interpretation set forth by the petitioners was to
 be accepted, it would follow that it is only upon projecting or
 claiming the property in question as untainted property, the
 offence would be complete. This would undermine the efficacy of
 the legislative intent behind Section 3 of the Act and also will be
 in disregard of the view expressed by the FATF in connection with
 the occurrence of the word "and" preceding the expression
 "projecting or claiming" therein. This Court in Pratap Singh v.
 State of Jharkhand , enunciated that the international treaties,
 covenants and conventions although may not be a part of
 municipal law, the same be referred to and followed by the Courts
 having regard to the fact that India is a party to the said treaties.
 This Court went on to observe that the Constitution of India and
 other ongoing statutes have been read consistently with the rules
 of international law. It is also observed that the Constitution of
 India and the enactments made by Parliament must necessarily be
 understood in the context of the present-day scenario and having
 regard to the international treaties and convention as our
 constitution takes note of the institutions of the world community
 which had been created. In Apparel Export Promotion Council v.
 A.K. Chopra , the Court observed that domestic Courts are under
 an obligation to give due regard to the international conventions
 and norms for construing the domestic laws, more so, when there
 is no inconsistency between them and there is a void in domestic
 law. This view has been restated in Githa Hariharan as a, as also
 in People's Union for Civil Liberties 82, and National Legal
 Services Authority v. Union of India . 266. In the Core Recommendations of the FATF referred to above ,
 the same clearly mention that the word "and" in Section 3 of the BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 27 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 2002 Act would not be fully in line with the Vienna and Palermo
 Conventions. This doubt has been ably responded and elucidated
 by India to the international body by referring to the
 jurisprudence as evolved in India to interpret the word "and" as
 "or" in the context of the legislative intent - to reckon any (every)
 process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime
 constituting offence of money-laundering. To buttress the stand
 taken by India before the FATF, reliance has been justly placed
 on reported decisions of this Court amongst other Sanjay Dutt,
 which had occasion to deal with the expression "arms and
 ammunition" occurring in Section 5 of the TADA Act. The Court
 noted that if it is to be read conjunctively because of word "and",
 the object of prohibiting unauthorised possession of the forbidden
 arms and ammunition would be easily frustrated by the simple
 device of one person carrying the forbidden arms and his
 accomplice carrying its ammunition so that neither is covered
 under Section 5 when any one of them carrying more would be so
 liable. The principle underlying this analysis by the Constitution
 Bench must apply proprio vigore to the interpretation of Section 3 of the 2002 Act. To the same end, this Court in the case of Ishwar
 Singh Bindra v. The State of U.P.165, Joint Director of Mines
 Safety and Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. Essar Power Ltd. ,
 interpreted the word "and" in the concerned legislation (s) as
 word "or" to give full effect to the legislative intent. 273. On a bare reading of Section 3 , we find no difficulty in
 encapsulating the true ambit, given the various arguments
 advanced. Thus, in the conspectus of things It must follow that the
 interpretation put forth by the respondent will further the
 purposes and objectives behind the 2002 Act and also adequately
 address the recommendations and doubts of the international
 body whilst keeping in mind the constitutional limits. it would,
 therefore, be just to sustain the argument that the amendment of
 way or the explanation has been brought about already present
 words, only to clarity the any" and "including" which manifests
 the true meaning of the definition and clarities the mist around its
 true nature." 30. Section 45 of PMLA provides that notwithstanding anything contained
 in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, no person accused of an
 offence under this Act shall be released on bail or on his own bond
 unless--(i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to
 oppose the application for such release; and (ii) where the Public
 Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence
 and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. It is also
 pertinent to mention here that Section 45 also provides that twin
 conditions are in addition to the limitation under the Code of Criminal
 Procedure , 1973 or any other law for the time being in force on
 granting of bail. It is settled proposition Section 45 PMLA do not
 impose an absolute restraint on the grant of bail and the court at this
 stage is to prima facie consider whether applying the standard of broad
 probabilities the material against the applicant would result in
 conviction. It is also a settled proposition that at this stage the Court is
 only required to examine the matter to find out whether the accused
 was possessed of the requisite mens rea. It is also no longer res integra
 that the court is not required to record a positive finding that the
 accused had not committed the offence under the Act. It is also a
 settled proposition that the court at this stage is not required to weigh
 the evidence meticulously. The court is only required to arrive at a
 finding on the basis of broad probabilities. It is also a settled
 proposition that the court is not required to hold a mini trial at this
 stage and is required to examine the case on the basis of broad
 probabilities. It is also to be kept in mind that while exercising the BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 29 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 jurisdiction under Section 45 of PMLA, the court is required to take
 into consideration the limitations prescribed under Section 439 Cr.P.C. 31. In regard to the limitation under Section 439 Cr.P.C. in Kalyan
 Chandra Sarkar vs Rajesh Ranjhan (2004) 7 SCC 528 it has been
 held as under: 32. Before proceeding further, it is also necessary to remind the scope of
 jurisdiction to be exercised while granting bail in the economic offence.
 The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v.
 CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 439 528 held as under: 33. In Nimmagadda Prasad v. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 466, it was inter alia
 held as under: 34. The bare reading of Section 3 of PMLA would make it clear if a person
 is involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 31 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 crime, including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and
 projecting or claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty offence of
 money laundering. Therefore, it is not necessary to attribute section 3 of the PMLA that the alleged person must have acquired or in
 possession of the proceeds of the crime. If a person has actually been
 involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of
 crime, it would be sufficient to prosecute him under Section 3 of
 PMLA. The argument that the proceeds of crime have not been
 received or the proceeds of crime have not been recovered and
 therefore section 3 of the PMLA will not come into operation is totally
 fallacious and is liable to be rejected. It is necessary to keep in mind
 that such crimes are committed under a deep conspiracy and under the
 dark cover. An act may not be an offence at all if it is done in relation
 to any process or activity not connected with the proceeds of crime, but
 if such an act is done in relation to any process or activity connected
 with the proceeds of crime it will certainly be an offence under Section
 3 of PMLA. The scope and ingredients of offence of money laundering
 under Section 3 of PMLA has been defined in Vijay Madanlal
 Chaudhary (supra). 35. The present case is very peculiar in nature and may not have any
 parallel factual matrix. In brief, the allegations in the predicate offence
 was that the conspiracy was hatched between the political head and
 certain persons which included an individual allegedly representing the
 government with the manufacturer, liquor wholesaler and retailer. The
 conspiracy allegedly was hatched to introduce a new excise policy to
 benefit certain individuals who had given advance kickbacks to the BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 32 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 AAP. The prominent players if we put names to the faces are
 Mr.Manish Sisodia, the then Deputy Chief Minister and Excise
 Minister, Mr.Vijay Nair, purportedly Media Incharge of AAP, Sameer
 Mahendru. Mr.Amit Arora, Mr.Dinesh Arora, Mr.Abhishek
 Boinapally, Mr.Sharad Reddy, Mr.Butchi Babu, Mr.Binoy Babu and
 others. This court is conscious of the fact that the investigation relating
 to the conspiracy to frame the excise policy allegedly with malafide
 intention and alleged misuse of official position was the subject matter
 of the CBI in which the charge-sheet has already been filed by the CBI.
 However, in view of the fact that allegedly the basic intention behind
 framing the new excise policy was to recoup the advance kickbacks
 and to further gain undue advantage from the excise policy, the facts
 are to be taken in totality. 36. Presently, this court is considering the bail application of the abovesaid
 accused person namely Mr.Benoy Babu, who was arrested for the
 offence under Section 3 of the PMLA. For the purpose of clarity
 Mr.Bonoy Babu was an employee of M/s Pernod Recard. Similarly,
 the allegations against Benoy Babu, an employee of M/s Pernod Recard
 is that he was also in a deep conspiracy from the stage of formulation
 of policy and extended corporate guarantee of 200 crores to enable the
 other stakeholders to generate the proceeds of crime. 37. The plea raised by the defence is the ED has no material other than an
 inconsistent and unreliable statement of either co-accused or the public
 servants. The defence has raised a plea that in absence of any
 independent corroboration or material on record to substantiate such
 statements under Section 50 PMLA, the court on the basis of BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 33 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 probability should record a finding that accused persons are not guilty
 of such offence. The defence, during the course of their arguments,
 have repeatedly stated that the ED has cooked up the case merely on
 the basis of whims and fancies and there are contradictions in the
 testimonies of the witnesses. The defence has assailed the testimony of
 approver Dinesh Arora and has submitted that Dinesh Arora has made
 the statement under the influence of ED and to protect himself. It is
 also the case of the defence that the public servants who are under the
 direct control of Hon'ble LG, who is the complainant in the present
 case, have made their statements only to save their skin. In respect of
 Binoy Babu, Mr. Mukul Rohtagi and Mr.Siddharth Luthra, learned
 Senior counsels have submitted that he was a low-rank employee of
 Pernod Recard and had no authority to take decisions. The plea was
 that in any case, a grant of corporate guarantee cannot be taken as a
 process or an activity connected to the proceeds of crime. 38. This court is fully conscious of the fact that personal liberty is a
 sacrosanct right and pre-trial detention cannot be taken as a punitive
 measure. However such individual right has to be balanced with the
 rights of society at large. This court is also conscious of the fact that
 though the statements recorded under Section 50 PMLA are admissible
 in evidence but their evidentiary value has to be weighed at the time of
 trial. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned senior
 counsels for Binoy Babu have argued that the ED is basing its case
 only on the statements of the witnesses recorded under Section 50 of
 PMLA. In case of Binoy Babu, the plea has also been raised that since
 he is a witness in the predicate offence and he could not have been BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 34 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 made an accused in the PMLA case. The present case arises out of an
 alleged conspiracy wherein the government framed an excise policy
 with a malafide intention to recoup the kickbacks received in advance
 from certain individuals and to further generate the ill money from the
 liquor trade. There are witnesses and witnesses on record to show that
 certain outsiders were actively participating from the stage of drafting
 and formulation of the policy. The reference to the statements of the
 witnesses have been made during the course of recording the
 submission of the learned defence counsels and learned counsel for ED. 39. The statements of the witnesses clearly indicates that some extraneous
 factors were working since the time of conceptualization, formulation
 and drafting of the excise policy. The allegation regarding generating
 of the emails in support of the excise policy also raises the red flag that
 everything was not being done in a transparent and bonafide manner. 40. This court at this stage, would restrain itself to make any comment
 further on this as the trial is yet to take place. The option before this
 court is either to go into the meticulous examinations of the witnesses
 as being argued by the learned defence counsels or to take into account
 the statements recorded under Section 50 of PMLA by the ED. It is
 correct that the case of ED is based on the statements under Section 50
 PMLA cannot be taken as gospel truth but at the same, the court has to
 take into account the legislative intent behind enacting Section 50
 PMLA. The statements under Section 50 PMLA are not akin to Section
 161 Cr.P.C. The bare perusal of Section 50 makes it clear that these are
 deemed to be judicial proceedings. There are consequences for making
 a false statement or not complying to the summons under Section 50 of BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 35 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 PMLA as provided under Section 63 of the PMLA. This court at this
 stage cannot go into the probative value of the witnesses nor can it
 meticulously examine those facts. The involvement of the third parties
 in the formulating and drafting of the policy certainly points at mens
 rea. 41. The jurisdiction of bail is a discretionary jurisdiction. But this
 discretion has to be exercised on the settled principles in a judicial
 manner. The court has to bring in its judicial experience to arrive at a
 conclusion, which should be rational and logical. It is pertinent to
 mention that the accused and complainant/prosecution are entitled to
 know the reasons on the basis of which their bail application has been
 decided, but at the same time such reason should not be detailed in
 such a manner that it may prejudice the trial. 42. The investigation under PMLA by the E.D. qua Benoy Babu as stated
 by E.D. has revealed as under: a. Benoy Babu is directly involved in Pernod Ricard wholesale
 business going to Indo Spirits (L1). b. Benoy Babu signed the approval letter for making Indo Spirits
 as its exclusive distributor even before the formal approval was
 received from the country head. c. Benoy Babu also was aware that no wholesaler can hold L7
 retail licence and despite being aware of Sh Sameer Mahandru
 being owner of Khao Gali and Bubbly Beverages to whom
 corporate guarantee was given without any collateral gave
 Pernod Ricard's distribution business to Sameer Mahandru's Indo
 Spirit. d. When Pernod Ricard hosted a diner at Taj Mansingh Delhi all
 members of super cartel were present in this meeting and the
 agenda of meeting was celebration of maximum retail zone and
 in principal agreement of Indo Spirit getting Pernod Ricard
 wholesale business. Sh Benoy Babu coordinated with Sh Arun
 Pillai (representative of South Group) for making Sh Sarath
 Reddy and Sh MSR the event hosted by Pernod Ricard.
 e. The role of Benoy Babu in the cartelization with retailers by
 making investment in the guise of corporate guarantee was
 Benoy Babu's brain child by granting financial assistance of 200
 crore to select retailers including co-accused Khao Gali and
 Bubbly Beverages would ensure a larger market share.
 f. The fact that on 02.06.2021 a month before the announcement
 of excise policy a presentation was made by Benoy Babu, the
 plan to form cartel and control retail businesses was given as a BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 37 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 slide and this was inserted on his specific instructions.
 g. Khao Gali is an accused in these complaints filed by ED and
 one of the successful retail bidders involved in the larger
 conspiracy and was part of the super cartel. Khao Gali's name
 features in the FIR of predicate agencies. h. The payment of corporate guarantee ensured that the retailers
 would buy 35% stocks from PRI which in turn would increase
 PRI market share 37% over a period of 3 years. This is
 corroborated by Bimal Khanna Strategy Head of PRI as well
 Benoy babu in his statement. i. The CFO of Pemod Ricard India, Richa Singh deposed that
 there should have been written request from the parties, due
 diligence should have been done and collateral should have been
 done, none of which was done. j. Furthermore, Benoy Babu was responsible for influencing
 policy formulation by sending 4000 doctored emails to
 government authorities by showing fake approval towards the
 policy. (iii) The policy required all manufactures to register at the
 lowest EDP net of all discount/commission/rebate of any nature
 whatsoever, however, Pernod Ricard by way of conspiracy has
 got their price fixed without deducting the discounts/rebates they
 offer thus getting a much higher price fixed for their brands and
 thus earning a huge additional profit which was ineligible to
 them and should have been passed to the consumers as lower
 MRP. If the manufacturer had registered the brands at actually BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 38 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 lowest EDP, the capacity of the manufacturers to give out credit
 notes would have been limited. However, Pernod Ricard paid Rs.
 131.9 Cr as credit notes to the retailers via the wholesalers,
 where the benefit of discounts was shifted to the retailers instead
 of the actual consumer at large. (iv) In order to generate kickbacks in perpetuity, a novel
 method of recovery of the kickbacks formulated through passing
 of Credit Notes. Ordinarily the credit notes are passed to the
 person who had direct nexus with or has sold the goods,
 however, in this business, the manufacturers were giving credit
 notes to the retailers with whom they had no direct transactions
 with. Further, there was no apparent reason to give credit notes
 to businesses which are minting money with MRP being 3 times
 of the cost and having profit margin of 185% approx. 43. The communication between Benoy Babu, Manoj Rai and Vijay Nair
 dated 01.08.2021 and 09.08.2021 also reveals that the petitioner was in
 conspiracy with Vijay Nair and other and the south group. It has also
 come on the record that petitioner had also travelled to Mumbai to meet
 Vijay Nair in context of appointing M/s Indo spirits as M/s PRI
 distributors. It has also come on record that as per the policy no L1
 wholesaler can hold L7 retail license. The E.D.'s case is that Benoy
 Babu was fully aware that Sameer Mahendru is the actually beneficiary
 behind M/s Khao Gali and M/s Bubbly Beverages and despite that
 Binoy Babu in line with Vijay Nair directions facilitated the Pernod
 Ricard distribution business to Sameer Mahendru's Indospirits. The
 case of the E.D. is also that the Benoy Babu is directly involved in the BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 39 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 generation of PoC of Rs.59.77 Cr which is the profit accrued to Pernod
 Ricard from the sales made to the retail zones of the cartel created via
 conspiracy with the South Group and Vijay Nair and with other
 companies to whom he provided financial support. Similarly, Benoy
 Babu was also directly and knowingly assisted in the generation of PoC
 of Rs. 163.5 Cr which is the enhanced profit of Pernod Ricard due to
 increase in market share as a result of conspiracy with co-accused
 Vijay Nair. 44. It is a matter of the record that petitioner Benoy Babu was not only in
 constant touch with Vijay Nair but also to south group. It is also
 relevant to note that PW-Vimal Khanna in his statement dated
 18.10.2022 has stated that the name of parties for financial assistance
 was given by Benoy Babu. On account of the purpose of granting
 corporate guarantee was to increase the market share in the operating
 segment from 15% to 35% which resulted in the increase in the profit
 of the Pernod Ricard Rs.33.7 Crore (01.11.2020 to 31.08.2021) to
 197.2 Crore (16.11.2021 to 31.08.2022), which shows a huge increase
 of 163.5 Crore (i.e. 485%). 45. It has also come on the record that the corporate guarantee of Rs.200
 Crore was given without following any due diligence which indicates
 to the conspiracy. The investigation also reveals that Benoy Babu was a
 part of conspiracy to send 4,000 e-mails to the authorities through
 media agencies hired by ISWAI and most of these emails were sent by
 creating email Ids so that the same may be projected as sent by general
 public to the govt. authorities. It is also come on the record that Benoy
 Baby was in possession of the draft policy on 31.05.2021 whereas the BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 40 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 policy was made public in July 2021. Further, he has forwarded the
 same to Manoj Rai (his senior in Pernod Ricard) on whatsapp on
 31.05.2021 this was available in the phone of Manoj Rai but the same
 is not available/deleted by Benoy Babu from his phone. It has been
 submitted that the petitioner had stated that he had received the same
 from Aman Dhall. However, it is come on record that petitioner
 selectively deleted his individual whatsapp chats with Sameer
 mahandru of Indospirits for the period to 26.10.2021. 46. As per the E.D., the material evidences against Benoy Babu are as
 follows: iii. Digital evidences in form of WhatsApp chat between Aman
 Dhall and BenoyBabu wherein it is seen that Benoy Babu has
 deleted the draft policy received from Aman Dhall. iv.Digital evidence in the form of WhatsApp chat between Arun
 Pillai and Benoy babu dated 04.09.2021, wherein Sh Arun Pillai
 has sought assistance from Benoy Babu for recruiting a CEO for
 the 5 zones of Sarath Reddy. v.Digital evidences in form of mail dated 20.05.2021 wherein
 Benoy Babuhas sent sensitive information like recommendation of
 changes by Hon'ble Lt. Governor to the policy and information
 regarding reworking of policy and submission to Hon'ble Lt.
 Governor for final approval to other employees of PRI and
 thereafter asked "Pls ensure we keep information in this mail
 strictly confidential" 47. The Enforcement Directorate has alleged that Benoy Babu was playing
 a key role in ensuring that Pernod Ricard L1 license was given to
 Indospirits. The ultimate aim was to make Indospirits a vehicle for
 recoupment of the advance kickback paid to the AAP leaders on the
 directions of Vijay Nair. 48. It is correct that extending a corporate guarantee per se may not be a
 crime. However, if it is connected with any activity or process BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 42 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 connected with the proceeds of crime, it would inevitably come within
 the purview of money laundering under section 3 of PMLA. In this
 regard, a reference can also be made to Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary (supra) wherein it has inter alia been held that while construing the
 expression "and" in Section 3 as "or", to give full play to the said
 provision so as to include "every" process or activity indulged into by
 anyone, including projecting or claiming the property as untainted
 property to constitute an offence of money-laundering on its own. It
 was further inter alia held that the act of projecting or claiming
 proceeds of crime to be untainted property presupposes that the person
 is in possession of or is using the same (proceeds of crime), also an
 independent activity constituting offence of money-laundering. 49. The Learned Special judge in it's order prima facie opined that Benoy
 Baby was the brainchild behind the decision of M/s Pernod Ricard for
 furnishing corporate guarantees of Rs. 200 crores for the loans availed
 by other members of the cartel from HSBC bank and this was
 considered to be an investment to take control of the retail liquor
 business and to achieve highest market share in the sale of liquor
 brands by the company and thus, to ensure that the retail vendors which
 were part of the above cartel kept at least 30% stock of the liquor
 brands owned by this company. It was noted that the above-said
 corporate guarantees were given without any collateral security nor any
 formal requests in this regard made. Further, Ld. Special Judge
 observed that M/s Pernod Ricard never issued such types of corporate
 guarantees before and it was at the instance of the Benoy Baby that
 these guarantees were issued to HSBC bank. Further, the applicant BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 43 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 namely Benoy Baby was found to be actively involved in the
 formulation of a cartel between M/S Pernod Ricard, Wholesaler M/s
 Indospirits, and the nine other retail entities of other co-accused
 persons Sameer Mahendru, P.Sarath Chandra Reddy and Raghav
 Magunta. 50. Further, it was observed by the Ld. Special Judge that the applicant
 namely Benoy Baby was the signatory in the capacity of attorney of
 M/s Pernod Ricard to the documents pertaining to the grant of licenses
 to M/s Indospirit, and it was the applicant/accused who performed all
 the operations in respect to the appointment of wholesaler, furnishing
 corporate guarantees. Even though he was not the Director or major
 shareholder in the M/s Pernod Ricard, it was observed that in terms of
 the provisions contained under section 70 (2) of the PMLA he is
 equally liable for the offence of money laundering committed in the
 present case, apart from the company itself or any of its Directors,
 Secretaries or other Managers connected with the commission of the
 said offence, directly or indirectly. Further the Ld. Special Judge
 observed that like the other co-accused persons, the applicant/accused
 also came into the possession of the draft policy before its official
 publication and is alleged to have been instrumental in tampering with
 the evidence by way of destruction of his own mobile phones. Further,
 documentary evidence including call detail records and WhatsApp
 chats, etc. is also alleged to have surfaced, besides the other evidence,
 to show his involvement in the commission of the alleged offence of
 money laundering as a member of the said cartel. Allegedly
 applicant/accused is further being associated with some other amounts BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 44 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55 of proceeds of crime and the total proceeds being attributed to him are
 stated to be around Rs. 563 crores. Further, the Ld. Special Court,
 PMLA, vide the same order, also rejected the bail applications of
 Sameer Mahendru, P. Sarath Chandra Reddy, Vijay Nair, and Abhishek
 Boinpally. 51. As discussed above, the accused persons in the present case acting in
 furtherance of the conspiracy circumvented the policy and got framed
 the policy in such a manner to continuously generate and channel
 illegal funds. The allegations are that deliberate loopholes were left to
 facilitate illegal and criminal activities. 52. I consider that at this stage, there is sufficient material on the record
 that the petitioner was indulging or knowingly assisting in process or
 activity connected with the proceeds of crime and it cannot be said that
 there are reasonable grounds for believing that petitioner is not guilty
 of such offence and he is not likely to commit any offence well. It was
 allegedly a well spun conspiracy to generate P.O.C. In such cases every
 person who is connected with any process or activity relating to P.O.C.
 cannot avoid his/her responsibility. The allegations are very serious in
 nature. Learned Special Judge has dismissed the bail application by a
 well reasoned order and there is no ground to interfere in the same.
 Hence, the present bail application stands dismissed as the petitioner
 has failed to pass the twin conditions as provided under Section 45 of
 PMLA. DINESH KUMAR SHARMA, J
 JULY 03, 2023/Pallavi BAIL APPLN. 562/2023 Page 45 of 45 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:39:55