None appears for the applicants. Presumably, the Advocates on record have chosen not to
appear because of the call given by the Madhya Pradesh High
Court Bar Association in its meeting dated 24th April, 2015 to
boycott Court work for today. That decision taken by the Bar,
is not in conformity with the known norms. The Supreme Court in the case of Ex. - Capt. Harish
Uppal vs. Union of India and another , (2003) 2 SCC 45 in
para 35, in particular, has observed thus:- Considering the above and as we, prima facie, find that
the Advocates have chosen not to appear on account of illegal
call given by the Bar Association, have committed professional
misconduct, for which, they must be noticed and called upon to
explain as to why appropriate action should not be taken
including to impose cost. That proceedings will continue
independently. Hence, show cause notice is issued to the Advocates -
Shri Dhanesh Kant Tiwari, Pankaj Khare and Sushil Kumar Jha,
who have filed Vakalatnama in the matters. Returnable on 17th
June, 2015. Further, keeping in mind the observations of the Supreme
Court, we cannot extricate ourselves from deciding the case
merely because the Advocates have not chosen to appear. We, accordingly, proceed with the hearing of the matter..
 The applicants have been arrested in connection with
Crime No.6/2014 registered with Police Station STF, Bhopal -
commonly known as VYAPAM examination scam cases -
 for the offence punishable u/s 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-
B of IPC and Section 3 (Gha) 1, 2/4 of M.P. Recognized
Examination Act, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicants is that of having acted
as middleman in facilitating the commission of alleged offence.
The applicants had interacted with the beneficiary as well as
impersonator. The impersonator was arranged by the
middleman (applicants). The co-accused linked to the
applicants is yet to be arrested and investigation of the offence
is still in progress. The note prepared by the Investigating
Officer addressed to the learned Advocate for the stated
dt.12.4.2015 points out the material indicating complicity of the
applicant Bhupendra Singh Rathore in the commission of the
Crime. Notably, applicant Parikshit Yadav is named as accused
in another crime No.12/2014 registered with STF, Bhopal.
Investigation in that crime is also not complete. Suffice it to observe that the investigation of the crime is
still in progress and final charge-sheet is yet to be filed against
the applicants in connection with Crime No.6/2014. Considering the complexity of the investigation and the
seriousness of the offence, which may end up in punishment
upto life sentence, if convicted; and it is not a case where the
applicant has been falsely implicated, the question of granting
bail at this stage does not arise. Accordingly, these applications are dismissed with
liberty to the applicants to apply for bail afresh after filing of
the final charge-sheet or arrest of co-accused linked to the
 concerned applicant, whichever is earlier. That application will
 be considered on its own merits. The communication handed over to the Court is
 ordered to be kept in sealed cover under the custody of
 Registrar (Judicial). We are required to do the unpleasant task of issuing
 show cause notice to the Officers of the Court not only in
 furtherance of the exposition of the Supreme Court in the
 aforesaid case but also because, off late, it has been noticed
 that such calls to boycott the Court have become frequent
 and even in respect of matters which could be conveniently
 resolved on the administrative side.