The case of the Prosecution against accused Sahid Abbas
S/o Nazbul Hassan is that on 27.02.2024 at about 8.00 pm, nar
Gol Chakkar, Kudakhatta, Wazirabad Road, Delhi within the
jurisdiction of PS Jyoti Nagar, accused was found in possession
of one buttondar knife in contravention of notification issued by

 Digitally
 signed by State vs. Shahid Abbas RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
FIR No.122/2024 SAINI Date : 2. After investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the
Accused on 12.03.2024 whereupon Cognizance was taken in this
matter on the same day. The copy of charge-sheet was supplied to
the accused on 12.03.2024 and charge was framed against the
Accused under Section 25 / 54 / 59 Arms Act on 09.05.2024 to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 3. Subsequently, Prosecution evidence was led and in order to
prove its version, Prosecution examined three witnesses i.e. PW1
Ct. Nitin, PW2 HC Anand and PW3 HC Satender. It is pertinent to note that vide order dated 23.04.2025
PW2 duty officer, ASI Garjan Prasad who had proved the FIR Ex
A1(Colly) and PW4 Dealing hand of Dy. Secretary Home who
had proved the DAD notification dated 29.10.1980 which is Ex.
A2 were dropped from the list of witnesses as accused has
admitted the genuineness of the FIR, and DAD Notification qua
the present case in his statement u/s 294 Cr.P.C. 4. Statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C on
05.06.2025 and all incriminating evidence appearing on record
against the accused are put to him to which accused stated that he
has been falsely implicated in the present case. He had refused to
lead any evidence in his defence. Hence, DE stands closed. Appreciation of Evidence

 Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
 SAINI Date: Ld. APP for the State argued that the case of the
Prosecution has been proved beyond all reasonable doubts on
account of the unfeterred testimonies of the prime Prosecution
witnesses i.e. the complainant and IO. Ld. APP for the State
further argued that this case merits conviction of the Accused as
the Prosecution case stands firmly on its own footing and merely
because of absence of public witnesses, the veracity of public
witnesses does not stand negated. Vehemently, denying the arguments of Ld. APP for the
State, Ld. LAC for the Accused argued that the Accused has been
falsely implicated in the present case and he has been made only
a victim of circumstances. It was further argued by Ld. LAC for
the Accused that nothing was recovered from the possession of
the Accused and this is the reason why no independent witness
has been brought by Prosecution in this matter. Hence, Ld. LAC
for the Accused strongly argued for acquittal of the Accused in
this matter. Submissions have been duly heard. Record has been
carefully perused. 6. A detailed scrutiny of the testimonies of the Prosecution
witnesses has been done and is hereby discussed in detail. PW:1 Ct. Nitin:- He deposed that on 27.02.2024, he
along with HC Anand were on patrolling duty. During patrolling
duty at about 8 pm, they reached near Gol Chakkar, Kuda Khatta,
Waziarbad road, Nand Nagri side. They saw one boy was stand- ing in front of Kuda Khatta. After seeing them in police uniform,
he started moving from there fastly. HC Anand told the said per-
son to stop but he started moving fastly. Thereafter, he with the
help of HC Anand apprehended said person after taking some
distance. Thereafter, HC Anand took cursory search of the said
accused and recovered one buttondar knife from the right side
pocket of his pant. They came to know the name of the said per-
son as Sahid Abbas. HC Anand gave information to the PS. Af-
ter sometime, IO/HC Satender came at the spot and HC Anand
handed over case property and accused to the IO. IO requested
public persons to join the investigation but none agreed and went
away without giving their names and addresses. IO put button-
dar knife on a white blank paper and prepared its sketch memo
which is Ex. PW1/A bearing his signature at point A and mea-
surement of the said knife i.e. total length of the knife was
23.7cm, length of the blade was 11. cm, length of the handle was
12.7 cm and Rampur was written on the handle of the said knife.
Thereafter, IO prepared pullanda of the said knife and sealed it
with the seal of ST and seized the same vide seizure memo Ex.
PW1/B bearing his signature at point A. IO recorded statement
of HC Anand and prepared rukka and same was handed over to
him for registration of the FIR. Accordingly, he went to PS and
got registered the present FIR and I came back at the spot along-
with copy of FIR and original rukka and same was handed over
to IO. IO prepared site plan at thier instance which is Ex.
PW1/C, bearing his signature at point A. IO arrested accused
vide arrest memo and personal search memos which are Ex. PW1/D and Ex. PW1/E, both bear his signatures at point A. IO
also recorded disclosure statement of the accused in his presence.
Thereafter, they went to PS and case property was deposited in
the malkhana and accused was sent to lock up. IO recorded his statement and relieved him
 He had correctly identified the accused as well as the case
property which is exhibited as Ex. P1. During cross examination by Ld. Legal Aid Counsel for
the accused witness deposed that he did not make any separate
departure entry before leaving PS. He had left the PS at about
5.15 pm and he reached at the spot at about 8.00 pm. He
admitted that the spot was a public place and public persons were
coming and going there and that no written notice was served
upon any public persons who reused to join or that the seizure
memo and sketch memos were prepared prior to registration of
the FIR and nothing was changed after registration of the FIR.
He further admitted that the IO did not prepare seal handing over
memo and receiving over memo. He did not remember the colour
of the clothes of the accused which he was wearing at the time of
incident. IO did not seize the clothes of the accused in the present
matter. He handed over rukka to him at around 8.50 pm and he
came back at the spot with copy of FIR at around 9.15 pm. IO
prepared site plan at about 9.30 pm. No videography or
photography were conducted by him and HC Anand at the time
of recovery of the case property. He had denied the suggestion
that the case property was planted upon accused or that accused
is falsely implicated in the present matter and he was arrested

 Digitally
 signed by State vs. Shahid Abbas RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
FIR No.122/2024 SAINI Date : compliance of these provisions i.e. Sections 100 and 165 Cr.P.C. would
 amount to an irregularity and the
 effect of the same on the main case
 depends upon the facts and
 circumstances of each case. Of
 course, in such a situation, the court
 has to consider whether any prejudice
 has been caused to the Accused and
 also examine the evidence in respect
 of search in the light of the fact that
 these provisions have not been
 complied with and further consider
 whether the weight of evidence is in
 any manner affected because of the
 non-compliance. It is well-settled that
 the testimony of a witness is not to be
 doubted or discarded merely on the
 ground that he happens to be an
 official but as a rule of caution and
 depending upon the circumstances
 of the case, the courts look for
 independent corroboration. This
 again depends on question whether
 the official has deliberately failed to
 comply with these provisions or
 failure was due to lack of time and
 opportunity to associate some
 independent witnesses with the
 search and strictly comply with these
 provisions. [Emphasis supplied]" Furthermore, in case titled as Roop Chand vs. State of
OF [1999 (1)C.L.R 69], the Hon'ble High Court of Punjab
Haryana has held that: 10. Moving further, this Court is conscious of precedent laid
down by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case titled as Safiullah
vs. State , [1993 (1) RCR (Criminal) 622] , that : The case property in the present matter was lying in the
Malkhana of the same police station where the police officials
having the possession of seal were posted. There was ample
opportunity for tampering with the case property. Hence,
considering the legal position, the benefit of doubt should be
given to the Accused. Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
 SAINI Date: 11. Besides all this, in the present case, the aforesaid lapse on
the part of police officials assumes significance on account of
another grave contradiction apparent in the document Ex.PW1/A
and Ex. PW1/B. The sketch memo of the knife Ex. PW1/A and
seizure memo of the knife Ex. PW1/B bear the number of FIR.
As per the rukka and testimony of witnesses, the sketch memo of
the knife and seizure memos were prepared prior to registration
of FIR. If that be so then it is questionable as to how the said
documents bear the FIR number. This gives rise to two inferences
that either the FIR was recorded prior to the alleged recovery of
the case property or number of the said FIR was inserted in the
document after its registration. In both the situations, it seriously
questions the veracity of the Prosecution version and creates a
good deal of doubt about the recovery of the case property in the
manner alleged by the Prosecution. That being so, the benefit
arising out of such a situation must necessarily go to the
Accused. In this regard, reference is made to the judgment of
Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in case titled as Mohd Hasim V/S
State [1999 VI AD (DELHI) 569] wherein it was observed: "...documents prepared before
 registering the FIR bears FIR
 numbers, meaning thereby either FIR
 was recorded posterior in time or that
 documents were prepared after the
 recording of FIR, and in both cases,
 Prosecution case would collapse." 12. Further, in order to ensure fair investigation, the
Prosecution witnesses must have offered their personal search to
 Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
State vs. Shahid Abbas SAINI Date: This also raises doubt about the recovery of the said case
property from the present Accused and strengthens the possibility
of planting of the case property upon the Accused. Conclusion 13. The onus and duty to prove the case against the Accused
was upon the Prosecution and the Prosecution must establish the

 Digitally
 signed by State vs. Shahid Abbas RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
FIR No.122/2024 SAINI Date : 14. In view of above said discussion, the Prosecution has
failed to prove the guilt of the Accused beyond reasonable doubt.
Accordingly, Accused Sahid Abbas S/o Nazbul Hassan is
acquitted of the charge u/s 25 / 54 / 59 Arms Act framed in the
present case. Case property be confiscated to the State. Same be
destroyed. File be consigned to Record Room subject to compliance
of section 437-A Cr.PC. Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
Announced in the open court SAINI Date: