In view of the difference of opinion in terms of separate

judgments pronounced by us in these appeals today, the Registry is

directed to place the papers before Hon'ble the Chief Justice of

India for appropriate further course of action. …....................J.
 (J. CHELAMESWAR)

 …....................J.
 (ABHAY MANOHAR SAPRE)

NEW DELHI
NOVEMBER 1, 2017
 Reportable
 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
 CIVIL APPEAL Nos. 17753-17755 OF 2017
 (ARISING OUT OF SLP (C) Nos. 29747-29749/2013)

Venture Global Engineering LLC … Appellant

 Versus

Tech Mahindra Ltd. & Another Etc. … Respondents
 WITH
 CIVIL APPEAL No. 17756 OF 2017
 (ARISING OUT OF SLP (C) No. 8298/2014)
Tech Mahindra Ltd. & Another Etc. … Appellants

 Versus

Venture Global Engineering LLC … Respondent

 JUDGMENT

Chelameswar, J. 1. Leave granted in both the SLPs. I had the advantage of reading the opinion of my learned

brother Justice Sapre. While I agree with the conclusion recorded

by him that the High Court erred in its conclusion on the question 1 whether the proceedings initiated by VENTURE in OP No. 390 of

2008 are barred by the principle of “issue estoppel”, I am unable to

persuade myself to agree with his conclusions that the judgment

under appeal is required to be reversed on the questions relating to

public policy and fraud for the following reasons; 2. The facts of these appeals are narrated in great detail by my

learned brother. There is no need to repeat except to mention those

which are essential for the purpose of my conclusion. 3. An Arbitral Award dated 3rd April, 2006 (hereinafter the

AWARD) came to be passed in an arbitration between VENTURE

and SATYAM. The relevant portion of the AWARD reads as under: 4. The dispute leading to the Arbitration and the AWARD arose

out of the Agreement dated 20th October, 1999 (Agreement I)

entered into between VENTURE and SATYAM. 2 5. Article VIII of the said Agreement defined the expression

“Events of Default” and stipulated the consequences thereof: Section 8.03 Rights Upon Bankruptcy Event
 Upon the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event with respect to any
 Shareholder (the “Bankrupt Shareholder”), such shareholder
 shall give immediate written notice to the other Shareholder (the 3 “Solvent Shareholder”). The Solvent Shareholder shall have
 the option of (a) purchasing the Shares held by the Bankruptcy
 Shareholder at book value and repay such Shareholder’s loans
 or (b) causing the immediate dissolution of liquidation of the
 company in accordance with Article IX. Either of such options
 must be exercised by the Solvent Shareholder by written notice
 to the Bankrupt Shareholder within one hundred twenty (120)
 days of receipt of notice of the Bankruptcy Event from the
 Bankrupt shareholder. Section 8.04 Remedies Not Exclusive
 The rights granted in this Article are not exclusive of any other
 rights or remedies available at law or in equity.” 6. The arbitrator inter alia opined that an Event of Default on the

part of VENTURE occurred and therefore, VENTURE (the defaulting

shareholder) is liable to transfer its interest i.e. 50 per cent of the

shares in the JVC to SATYAM (non-defaulting shareholder). 7. SATYAM filed a petition in the Eastern District Court of

Michigan, US seeking enforcement of the AWARD against

VENTURE. Admittedly, the petition was allowed on 31st July, 2006

and the District Court of Michigan by its judgment directed the

enforcement of the AWARD. It appears that VENTURE appealed

against the said order in the 6th Circuit, US Appellate Court in

Michigan. 4 8. I assume for the purpose of these appeals that the directions

of the Eastern District Court of Michigan dated 31st July, 2006 is

legally tenable. In the final analysis, enforcement of the AWARD

means transfer of the shares (property of VENTURE) in the JVC.

Since the JVC is a company registered (incorporated) in India,

transfer of shares therein will have to be effected in accordance with

the relevant procedure established by law of India i.e. the Companies Act and other related enactments which obligate

VENTURE to perform certain acts. If VENTURE declines to perform

its obligations, the directions contained in the judgment of the

American Court will have to be executed in India in accordance with

the procedure prescribed under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908

for the enforcement of foreign judgments or decrees, as the case

may be. 9. Be that as it may, in my opinion, it was really not necessary

for SATYAM to have approached the American Court for the

enforcement of the AWARD, whether the AWARD is a “foreign

award” as defined under Chapters I or II of Part II of the Arbitration

and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereafter “the ACT”) or not, in view of 5 the judgments of this Court in Bhatia’s case 1 and BALCO’s case 2,

Part I of the ACT is applicable to the AWARD since the AWARD is

anterior to the date of the judgment of this Court in BALCO’s case3. “Para 197. … Thus, in order to do complete justice, we hereby
 order, that the law now declared by this Court shall apply
 prospectively, to all the arbitration agreements executed hereafter.”
Therefore, the AWARD would be enforceable as if it were a decree of

a civil court in view of Section 36 4 of the ACT. 10. The only way VENTURE could avoid the enforcement of the

AWARD is by having the AWARD set aside either under Section 34 of the ACT or any other procedure applicable under any other

applicable law in any other appropriate jurisdiction available to

VENTURE under the principles of international law. We are not

informed of any such proceeding either subsisting or successfully

pursued by VENTURE in any jurisdiction. On the other hand,

VENTURE initiated proceedings on 13th April, 2006 before the

District Court for the Northern District of Illinois Eastern Division, 1 Bhatia International vs. Bulk Trading S.A. & Anr., ( 2002) 4 SCC 105 2 Bharat Aluminium Company vs. Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc. , (2012) 9 SCC 552 (CB)
3 th
 6 September 2012 4 Section 36 . Enforcement.—(1)Where the time for making an application to set aside the arbitral award under section 34 has expired, then, subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), such award shall be enforced in accordance
with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908) in the same manner as if it were a decree of the
Court. 6 USA for a declaration that the AWARD was not enforceable in the

United States of America. Subsequently, even that application was

dismissed as withdrawn by an Order of that Court dated 25th April,

2006. 11. Thereafter, VENTURE filed OS No. 80 of 2006 on 28th April,

2006 before the Ist Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court,

Secunderabad seeking mainly two reliefs: 12. This Court had an occasion to examine the maintainability of

the said suit in an appeal arising out of certain interlocutory

proceedings (detailed in the judgment of my learned brother) in Venture Global Engineering v. Satyam Computer Services Ltd.

& Another , (2008) 4 SCC 190 (hereinafter called VENTURE-I). In

substance, this Court held (subject to certain qualifications) that

VENTURE is not disentitled to challenge the AWARD in India. 13. Consequent upon the judgment in VENTURE-I, the Ist

Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court, Secunderabad transferred

O.S. No. 80 of 2006 to the Court of 2nd Additional Chief Judge City 7 Civil Court at Hyderabad. The suit was converted into an

application under Section 34 of the ACT and was renumbered O.P.

No. 390 of 2008. The Suit/O.P. as originally filed was based on

certain grounds other than the grounds on which the O.P.

eventually came to be allowed. 14. On the 7th of January 2009, Ramalinga Raju, the Chairman

and founder of SATYAM made a statement in writing 5 wherein he

made certain admissions to the effect that the balance sheets of

SATYAM had been manipulated to inflate profits to the tune of Rs.

7080 crores. 15. VENTURE filed an application6 under Order VIII Rule 9 of the

CPC seeking permission to plead additional facts by amending the

pleadings in O.P. No. 390 of 2008. VENTURE contended that the

facts disclosed by Ramalinga Raju and the subsequent

developments “are crucial at the adjudication of the disputes between the

parties” and prayed; “In the foregoing fats (sic) and circumstances it is humbly
 submitted that the Hon’ble Court may be pleased to pass the
 following orders; 5 Letter addressed to the Board of Directors of SATYAM 6 IA No. 1331 of 2009 dated 12.06.2009 in O.P. No. 390 of 2008 8 a) That the subsequent developments and events as stated in
 this petition in para 3 to 21 together with the accompanying
 documentation be brought on Record. b) Such other or further orders as may be necessary in the
 interests of justice.”

 The Trial Court, by an order dated the 3rd of November, 2009

allowed the application. 16. SATYAM challenged the order dated 3rd November, 2009 in a

revision petition before the High Court. By an order dated the 19th

of February, 2010, the High Court allowed the revision petition and

dismissed Venture’s application. The High Court held (in

substance) that under Section 34 of the ACT, an application for

setting aside of an Award could only be filed within 3 months

(extendable only by another 30 days) from the date of the Award

permitting attack against the AWARD on a new ground would

amount to permitting the AWARD to be challenged after the

expiration of limitation. 9 17. VENTURE appealed to this Court. This Court, by judgment of

the 11th of August, 2010 7, allowed the appeal and restored the order

of the Trial Court. “39. Therefore, this Court is unable to accept the contention of the
 learned counsel for the respondent that the expression “fraud in the
 making of the award” has to be narrowly construed. This Court
 cannot do so primarily because fraud being of “infinite variety” may
 take many forms, and secondly, the expression `the making of the
 award' will have to be read in conjunction with whether the award
 “was induced or affected by fraud”. 40. On such conjoint reading, this Court is unable to accept the
 contentions of the learned counsel for the respondents that facts
 which surfaced subsequent to the making of the award, but have a
 nexus with the facts constituting the award, are not relevant to
 demonstrate that there has been fraud in the making of the award.
 Concealment of relevant and material facts, which should have
 been disclosed before the arbitrator, is an act of fraud. If the
 argument advanced by the learned counsel for the respondents is
 accepted, then a party, who has suffered an award against another
 party who has concealed facts and obtained an award, cannot rely
 on facts which have surfaced subsequently even if those facts have
 a bearing on the facts constituting the award. Concealed facts in
 the very nature of things surface subsequently. Such a construction
 would defeat the principle of due process and would be opposed to
 the concept of public policy incorporated in the explanation.” 18. Thereafter, OP No. 390 of 2008 was heard and allowed by the

trial Court by its Order dated 31.01.2012. The AWARD was set

aside. 7 Venture Global Engineering v. Satyam Computer Services Limited & Another , (2010) 8 SCC 660 (“Venture-II”) 10 19. The trial court framed as many as 8 points for consideration,

and they read: 8. Whether the petitioner had made out valid and sufficient
 grounds to set aside the impugned award, and if so, the award is
 liable to be set aside? 9. To what relief? 11 20. After an elaborate discussion of the said points, the trial court

concluded at para 12 of the judgment. “Before the last point is taken up, it is necessary to sum up the
 discussion and findings. Under point number 1, it is held that the
 present proceeding after conversion from the Suit to the Original
 Petition cannot be construed to be a suit and hence cannot be
 rejected on the assumption that the suit is not maintainable.
 Under point number 2, it is held that the present proceeding which
 to be construed as an Original Petition under Section 34 of the Act
 is not liable to be dismissed as not maintainable. Under point
 number 3 it is held that the instant proceeding i.e. Original
 Petition is not barred by Law of Limitation. Under point number 4
 answered against the Petitioner it is held that bankruptcy of
 Petitioner’s affiliates had constituted a bankruptcy event as per the
 terms and conditions agreed to between the parties. However, it is
 to be noted that when this finding was recorded by the Arbitral
 Tribunal the additional pleas now urged by the Petitioner before
 this court were not available to the Petitioner and hence the
 additional pleas were not brought to the notice of the learned
 Arbitral Tribunal. The said findings of the Arbitral Tribunal can be
 sustained if only the issue of fraud is not taken into consideration.
 Thus, in the absence of plea of the suppression of material facts
 and fraud on the part of the 1st Respondent, the findings of the
 learned arbitrator that the bankruptcy of Petitioner’s affiliates
 constitutes a bankruptcy event is sustainable. However, after the
 suppressed material facts and fraud have come to light even that
 finding of the Arbitral Tribunal cannot be sustained for the reasons
 already assigned under point numbers 6 and 7. Under point
 number 5, the award in so far as it ordered transfer of petitioner’s
 share to the 1st Respondent @ book value is in violation to FEMA
 and Public Policy of India. Under points numbers 6 and 7, it is
 held that the award which is affected and induced by fraud is
 vitiated and cannot be enforced being opposed to Public Policy of
 India and is liable to set aside. In view of the above findings, this
 Court holds that the Petitioner has made out valid and sufficient
 grounds to set-aside the impugned award and hence, the award is
 liable to be set aside. The point is accordingly answered.” 21. In substance, the trial court held all the points in favour of

VENTURE except Point No.4 and concluded that the AWARD is 12 required to be set aside on two grounds, (i) the direction in the

AWARD to transfer the shares in JVC of VENTURE at book value is

in conflict with the requirements of The Foreign Exchange

Management Act, 1999 (hereafter referred to as “FEMA”) and

therefore violation of public policy 8, (ii) The AWARD is

unsustainable because of the financial irregularities and the

manipulation of the accounts of SATYAM. 9 In the opinion of the

trial court, the AWARD “is affected and induced by fraud” and

cannot be enforced being opposed to public policy of India. 22. Whether the above conclusions are tenable? was the question

before the High Court. The High Court framed 8 points for consideration in the

judgment under appeal. “1) Whether the institution of the proceedings by the 1st
 respondent in the Indian Courts to enforce a foreign award can be 8 (f) In view of the discussion coupled with reasons the point is answered in favour of the petitioner and against
 st
the Respondents holding that the award in so far as it ordered for transfer of petitioner’s shares to the 1
Respondent at book value is a violation of Foreign Exchange Management Act and violation of public policy. 9 ….In view of the detailed discussions coupled with the reasons, the points 6 and 7 are thus answered in favour of
the Petitioner and against the Respondent 1 and 2 holding that the Award is vitiated by irregularities in the financial
statements of 1st Respondent as set out in additional pleadings and that the Petitioner was under an incapacity on
account of the acts of fraud committed by the 1st Respondent which had come to light after the passing of the award
by the learned Tribunal and, therefore, such acts of fraud have causative link, and hence, the award which is affected
and inducted by fraud is vitiated and cannot be enforced being opposed to Public Policy of India and is liable to set
aside on the grounds of material suppression of facts, fraud, incapacity of the Petitioner and violation of Public
Policy of India. 13 justified in view of the judgment of the Supreme Court in BALCO’S
 case (4 supra)? 2) Whether the principle of ‘issue estoppel’ gets attracted in the
 facts of the case? 3) Whether it is competent for a party to arbitration to invoke
 Part-I as well as Part-II of the Arbitration Act in relation to a
 foreign award? 4) Whether the ground of fraud raised by the appellant has
 been pleaded and proved as required in law, and whether the
 finding recorded by the trial Court on that aspect can be
 sustained? 5) Whether the award can be said to be opposed to public
 policy, on the ground that the transfer of money for its
 implementation, needs permission, under FEMA? 6) Whether an Indian Court can set aside a foreign award,
 which has already been enforced in the proceedings with the
 participation of both the parties to the award? 7) Whether the trial Court followed the correct procedure in
 deciding the O.P.? and 8) Whether the miscellaneous orders that are challenged in
 certain appeals and revisions can be sustained in law?” 23. Point Nos.4 and 5 above are relevant in the context of the twin

reasons given by the trial court for arriving at the conclusion that

the AWARD is required to be set-aside. 24. The High Court opined that the findings recorded by the trial

court are unsustainable. The relevant portion of the judgment

under appeal insofar as it pertains to point No. 4 reads: 25. The net result of the litigation is that while the Trial Court set

aside the AWARD, the High Court reversed the trial court judgment

and restored the AWARD. 26. Aggrieved by the judgment, the present two appeals are filed

one by VENTURE and other by SATYAM now represented by Tech

Mahindra. 27. Naturally VENTURE is aggrieved by the judgment.

Notwithstanding the fact SATYAM succeeded before the High Court,

SATYAM also filed a separate appeal (being SLP(C) No. 8298 of

2014) questioning the correctness of the decision of the High Court

insofar as it held that the trial court had the jurisdiction to examine

the legality of the AWARD. 28. The crux of the entire litigation is that VENTURE seeks to have

the AWARD set aside. It must be remembered that SATYAM has not

initiated any proceeding so far in India for the enforcement of the

AWARD. 29. As rightly pointed out by my learned brother, though various

submissions were made both before the trial court and the High

Court, before this Court VENTURE confined its attack on the 16 AWARD only to two grounds i.e. the AWARD is contrary to the

public policy of India because compliance with the AWARD would

amount to violation of the provisions of the FEMA ACT., and the

AWARD is required to be set aside because of the “fraud” disclosed

by the statement dated 7th January 2009 of Ramalinga Raju. 30. Under the scheme of the ACT an award can be set aside in this

country only on the grounds enumerated in Section 34 10 , if an 10 Section 34 . Application for setting aside arbitral award.—(1) Recourse to a Court against an arbitral award
may be made only by an application for setting aside such award in accordance with sub-section (2) and sub-section
(3). (2) An arbitral award may be set aside by the Court only if- a. the party making the application furnishes proof that-

 i. a party was under some incapacity, or

 ii. the arbitration agreement is not valid under the law to which the parties have subjected it or, failing
 any indication thereon, under the law for the time being in force; or

 iii. the party making the application was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of
 the arbitral proceedings or was otherwise unable to present his case; or

 iv. the arbitral award deals with a dispute not contemplated by or not falling within the terms of the
 submission to arbitration, or it contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission
 to arbitration: Explanation 2.- For the avoidance of doubt, the test as to whether there is a contravention with the fundamental
policy of Indian law shall not entail a review on the merits of the dispute. (2A) An Arbitral award arising out of arbitrations other than international commercial arbitrations, may
also be set aside by the Court, if the Court finds that the award is vitiated by patent illegality appearing on the face
of the award: In the Explanation to Section 34(2) it is declared that “… an

award is in conflict with the public policy of India if the making of the award

was induced or affected by fraud …” 31. Though the trial Court had set aside the AWARD purportedly

on two grounds, in essence the ground is only one, that the AWARD

is in conflict with the public policy of India. Because the conclusion

of the trial court on Point Nos. 6 & 7 framed by it that “the AWARD

is affected and induced by fraud” is also an aspect of the “conflict

with the public policy of India.” 32. I am of the opinion that the High Court is right in reversing

the judgment of the trial court, though the reasons given by the

High Court, in my opinion, are not very elegant and logical. Therefore, I propose to examine the correctness of the

conclusions of the trial court on Points No.5, 6 & 7 framed by it.

PUBLIC POLICY: 33. The trial court recorded that the AWARD is required to be set

aside on the ground that the AWARD is opposed to the public policy

of India. In the opinion of the trial court, the AWARD contained

directions which are in conflict with the FEMA Act and Regulations 19 made thereunder. The trial court considered this under Point No.5

framed by it in para no.10 of its judgment. It framed the question

as follows: 34. The submission of VENTURE appears to be: and (ii) The book value of the shares of JVC is less than

 that of their fair value. 20 35. It must be pointed out here that even according to the trial

court SATYAM argued “that the book value of the shares is the price of

shares as recorded in the books of accounts of the Company. It may be above

or below the market value.”

 On the above rival submissions, the trial Court concluded;
 “Thus the award to the extent it directed the transfer of Petitioner’s
 shares to the 1st Respondent at the rate of book value is violation
 of Foreign Exchange Management Act and consequently the public
 policy. ***** ***** ***** ***** *****
 In view of the discussion coupled with reasons the point is
 answered in favour of the petitioner and against the Respondents
 holding that the award in so far as it ordered for transfer of
 petitioner’s shares to the 1st Respondent at book value is a
 violation of Foreign Exchange Management Act and violation of
 public policy.” 36. In the entire discussion dealing with the submission, neither

the text of the regulations nor the scheme of either the FEMA Act or

the regulations is subjected to any analysis. The trial court did not

even indicate the number of the regulation which mandates (if at

all) that the transfer such as the one directed by the AWARD is

required to be only at “fair value’ of the shares. The trial court

simply accepted the submission of VENTURE. 21 37. Assuming for the sake of argument that there is some

stipulation in the abovementioned regulation which forbids the

transfer of shares in question except “for a fair value”, there is no

discussion in the judgment of the trial court as to; (i) what is meant by fair value of the shares under

 FEMA; (ii) how that fair value is to be determined; (iii) whether the fair value of shares is the same as

 market value of shares; (iv) what exactly is the fair value of the shares in

 question; The trial court did not even record a finding that the book value of

the shares of the JVC is less than that of their market value or fair

value. It must also be pointed out here that the trial court did not

even refer to any pleading on the basis of which submission was

made before it. 38. The entire exercise undertaken by the trial court only

demonstrates the unfortunate trend in the legal system where

without settling the facts in issue first and identifying the questions 22 of law relevant in the context for determining the controversy

between the parties, case law is dumped upon and examined by the

courts. The result is an exercise like the one undertaken by the

trial court. I am of the opinion that the conclusion recorded by the

trial court on Point No.5 is without any basis in facts and without

even identifying the provision of law with which the AWARD is in

conflict with. Hence, in my opinion, the conclusion in this point

cannot be sustained. 39. In the process of such uncharted debate, the trial court

undertook an examination whether the payment of US$ 622,656 to

be made towards the book value of the shares requires permission

of the Reserve Bank of India and whether such permission is

required to precede the award etc. I failed to identify any categoric

conclusion recorded by the trial court on that question. Whether

there are any pleadings calling upon the court to examine those

questions is also not indicated in the judgment. 23 FRAUD: 40. The next question is - whether fudging of the accounts of

SATYAM would in any way provide a ground for VENTURE to seek

setting aside of the AWARD? 41. The content of the letter 11 dated 7th January 2009 of

Ramalinga Raju, if true undoubtedly would have legal consequences

both civil and criminal for SATYAM, Ramalinga Raju and some

more persons who are responsible for the fudging of the accounts of

SATYAM. Various civil and criminal proceedings were in fact

initiated and some consequences followed. According to the Statement of Ramalinga Raju, the fudging of

accounts of SATYAM took place over a number of years.12 11 Extracted in extenso by my learned brother 12 The gap in the balance Sheet has arisen purely on account of inflated profits over a period of last several years
(limited only to Satyam standalone, books of subsidiaries reflecting true performance). What started as a marginal
gap between actual operating profit and the one reflected in the books of accounts continued to grow over the years.
It has attained unmanageable proportions as the size of company operations grew significantly (annualized revenue
run rate of Rs. 11,276 crore in the September quarter, 2008 and official reserves of Rs. 8,392 crore). The
differential in the real profits and the one reflected in the books was further accentuated by the fact that the company
had to carry additional resources and assets to justify higher lever of operations – thereby significantly increasing the
costs. 24 Ramalinga Raju’s statement is not very clear regarding the point of

time at which the fudging of the accounts of SATYAM commenced. 13 42. In my opinion, Points No.6 & 7 framed by the trial court are

too vague and imprecise. Section 34(2) of the ACT declares that if

making of an award is either “induced or affected by fraud”, the

same is liable to be set aside. Whether the facts relating to the

fudging of the accounts of SATYAM and the non-disclosure of those

facts by SATYAM before the arbitrator would amount either (i) to

‘inducing’ the making of the AWARD by fraud; or (ii) the AWARD

made in ignorance of those facts by virtue of non-disclosure of those

facts by SATYAM would be an ‘award affected by fraud’, - would be

the questions relevant for deciding whether the AWARD is required

to be set aside. 43. The expression “Fraud” has no definition in law which has

universal application. In “KERR on the Law of Fraud and Mistake” 14, it is

said: 13 44. But the fact remains, such a definition is valid only in the

context of contracts. In my opinion, the definition under Section

17 of the Contract Act may not be of any great assistance, to

understand the meaning and scope of the explanation to Section

34(2) of the ACT. From the language of the explanation to Section

34(2) , what renders an AWARD liable to be set aside is that the

making of the AWARD must have been induced by fraud or the

AWARD is affected by fraud. Neither does the trial court judgment

identify the legal parameters for recording a conclusion that the

making of the AWARD was induced by or fraud or that the AWARD

is affected by fraud, nor does it explain how the non-disclosure of

the facts relating to the true financial status of SATYAM actually is

an inducement for making of the AWARD. On the other hand, the

trial court relied upon the observations made by this Court in

VENTURE-II ( Venture Global Engineering v. Satyam Computer

Services Limited & Another , (2010) 8 SCC 660), that “concealment

 (4) any other act fitted to deceive; (5) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent. 27 of relevant and material facts which should have been disclosed before the

Arbitrator is an act of fraud” to support the conclusion that the AWARD

is required to be set aside. The Trial Court opined that: At the same time, this Court categorically declared in para 61 that 30 “nothing said in the judgment will be construed as even remotely expressing

any opinion on the legality of the award.” 47. The High Court rightly disagreed with the conclusions of the

trial court and reversed the judgment of the trial court. High Court

ought to have given more cogent reasons for the disagreement. 48. In the circumstances, I am of the opinion that the High Court

rightly reversed the judgment of the trial court, not warranting any

interference by this Court in exercise of the discretionary

jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. I would

therefore dismiss the appeals of VENTURE. CIVIL APPEAL No. OF 2017
(ARISING OUT OF SLP (C) No. 8298/2014) 49. If this Court agrees with the conclusion of the High Court that

the AWARD is not liable to be set aside, the appeal of SATYAM

would become purely academic. Even otherwise, a reading of the

Special Leave Petition discloses, all that SATYAM is seeking is to re-

agitate the question of the applicability of Part-I of the ACT to an

international commercial arbitration. In other words, it is a

challenge to the correctness of the decision of a Constitution Bench

of this Court in BALCO’s case. I am of the opinion that such a 31 course ought not to be permitted. I would, therefore, dismiss the

appeal of SATYAM. …………………………J.
 (J. CHELAMESWAR)
New Delhi
November 01, 2017 32 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CIVIL APPEAL Nos. 17756 OF 2017
 (ARISING OUT OF SLP (C) Nos. 29747-29749/2013)

Venture Global Engineering LLC …….Appellant(s)

 VERSUS

Tech Mahindra Ltd. & Anr. Etc. ……Respondent(s)

 WITH

 CIVIL APPEAL No. OF 2017
 (ARISING OUT OF SLP (C) No. 8298/2014)

Tech Mahindra Ltd. & Anr. Etc. …….Appellant(s)

 VERSUS

Venture Global Engineering LLC. ……Respondent(s)

 JUDGMENT

Abhay Manohar Sapre, J. 1. Special Leave Petition (Civil) Nos.29747-29749

of 2013 are filed by the Venture Global Engineering 1 LLC. Special Leave Petition (C) No.8298 of 2014 is

filed by Tech Mahindra Ltd. Both of them are

Bodies Corporate. They are the plaintiff and the

1st defendant respectively in O.S. No.87 of 2012 on

the file of the 1st Additional Chief Judge, City Civil

Court, Secunderabad. 2. Leave granted. 3. O.S. No.87 of 2012 was filed praying that an

Arbitral Award dated 03.04.2006 (hereinafter

referred to as the “Award”) be set aside in exercise of

the power under Section 34 of the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the

“AAC Act”). O.S. No. 87 of 2012 was transferred to

the Court of Chief Judge, City Civil Court,

Hyderabad and re-numbered as O.P. No. 390 of

2008. 4. By order dated 31.01.2012, O.P. No.390 of

2008 was allowed setting aside the Award. 2 5. Aggrieved by the said order, the defendant

preferred three appeals to the High Court of Andhra

Pradesh. By a common judgment dated

23.08.2013, the High Court allowed the appeals.

Hence, the instant appeals. 6. The necessary background facts of these

appeals are: 7. For the sake of convenience and brevity, the

plaintiff-Venture Global Engineering LLC is

hereinafter referred to as “Venture”, whereas

defendant No.1-Tech Mahindra (formerly known as

Satyam Computer Services Private Ltd. is

hereinafter referred to as “Satyam” and defendant

No.2-Satyam Venture Engineering Services is

hereinafter referred to as “JVC”. 8. Plaintiff-Venture in O.S. No.87 of 2012 is a

Company incorporated under the US laws. It is one

of a group of companies. 3 9. Satyam is an Indian Company registered

under the Companies Act, 1956 with its office at

Hyderabad engaged in the business of computer

software. 10. On 20.10.1999, the Venture and Satyam

entered into a Joint Venture and Shareholder

Agreement (hereinafter referred to as Agreement-I)

for incorporating JVC. The entire shareholding of

JVC is to be held between the two collaborating

companies equally. The Agreement consists of XI

Articles. Each Article consists of several sections. 11. Annexure-A to the Agreement defines several

expressions used in the Agreement. 12. The provisions of Agreement-I relevant to the

controversy on hand are: “(b) This Agreement shall be construed in
 accordance with and governed by the laws of
 the State Michigan, United States, without
 regard to the conflicts of law rules of such
 jurisdiction. Disputes between the parties
 that cannot be resolved via negotiations shall
 be submitted for final, binding arbitration to 8 the London Court of Arbitration.”

It provides that the disputes between the parties, if

not settled through negotiations, shall be referred to

arbitration to the London Court of International

Arbitration (hereinafter referred to as LCIA). (vii) Section 11 .05(c) stipulates ensuring

compliance of provisions of Companies Act and

other applicable Acts/Rules, which are in force in

India at any time. It reads as under: “(c) Notwithstanding anything to the
 contrary in this agreement, the Shareholders
 shall at all times act in accordance with the
 Company’s Act and other applicable
 Acts/Rules being in force, in India, at any
 time.” 13. Pursuant to the aforementioned Agreement,

Satyam, Venture and JVC entered into another

Agreement dated 11.02.2000, Agreement–II called

Non-Compete Agreement. Clause 5 of the Agreement

provides that the Agreement shall be governed by

and construed according to laws of the State of 9 Michigan (US) without regard to conflicts of law

rules of its jurisdiction. It then also provides that

the disputes between the parties, if cannot be

mutually resolved, shall be referred to arbitration to

the LCIA. It also provides that a party to the

Agreement may seek injunctive relief in a Court of

competent jurisdiction restraining a violation of the

Agreement. It reads as under: 14. In September 2000, Satyam entered into an

Agreement with another American Company called-

TRW Automotive to provide information technology

to TRW. Satyam also entered into a “sub-contract" 10 15. Between March 2003 to May 2004, 21

members of the Group of Companies of which the

Venture is a member filed bankruptcy proceedings

in U.S. Courts and were declared bankrupt. 16. Aforementioned two events gave rise to

disputes between Venture and Satyam. Eventually

Satyam invoked the arbitration clause contained in Section 11 .5 (b) of Agreement-I by filing a request

with the LCIA for arbitration on 25.07.2005 against

Venture. 17. On 10.09.2005 the LCIA appointed Mr. Paul B.

Hanon as sole Arbitrator to decide the disputes.

Both the parties entered appearance before the

Arbitrator and filed their respective claims against

each other. 11 18. The Arbitrator delivered his reasoned Award on

 03.04.2006. He rejected the claims of Venture and

 allowed the claims of Satyam. 19. The Arbitrator held that an "event of default

 (bankruptcy)" on the part of Venture had occurred

 entitling Satyam to claim reliefs specified in Section

 8 .03 of Agreement-I against Venture. The Arbitrator

 also held that Venture violated Agreement-II by

 failing to provide business as stipulated in the

 Agreement. 20. The relevant part of the operative portion of the

 Award reads as under: C. I order VGE to pay Satyam
 GBP48,777.48, the costs of the Arbitration as
 determined by the LCIA Court. D. I order VGE to pay to Satyam
 US$1,488,454.11 Satyam’s additional costs
 as determined in Section 5 .12 hereof. E. I order VGE to pay Satyam interest
 at the 5 per cent per annum compounded
 annually on the unpaid balance of the sums
 set forth in Sections 6 .1 C and D hereof until
 such sums are paid. F. I declare that Satyam is released
 from its obligation under the NCA not to
 compete with SVES or VGE with respect to
 engineering services to the automotive
 industry.” 21. Aggrieved by the Award, Venture filed a

complaint against Satyam on 13.04.2006 before the

United States District Court for the Northern

District of Illinois, Eastern Division (USA) seeking a

declaration that the Award was not enforceable in 13 US. By an Order dated 25.04.2006, the said

complaint was dismissed as withdrawn. 22. On 14.04.2006, Satyam filed a petition against

Venture in Eastern District Court of Michigan (US)

seeking to enforce the Award against the Venture.

On 28.04.2006, Venture filed its response and

cross-petition in Satyam’s petition. By Order dated

31.07.2006, Satyam’s petition was allowed directing

enforcement of the Award. 23. Aggrieved by order dated 31.07.2006, Venture

filed an appeal on 08.09.2006 in 6th circuit US

appeal Court in Michigan. 24. On 28.04.2006, Venture filed a civil suit (O.S.

No.80/2006) before the 1st Additional Chief Judge

City Civil Court Secunderabad seeking (i) a

declaration that the Award is illegal and without

jurisdiction, (ii) a decree for grant of permanent

injunction restraining Satyam from enforcing the 14 Award which, inter alia, directed Venture to sell

their 50% shares of JVC to Satyam at book value. 25. In the said suit, on 15.06.2006, an ex parte

injunction order was passed restraining Satyam

from enforcing the Award insofar as it directed

transfer of shares by Venture to Satyam. 26. Aggrieved by the order dated 15.06.2006,

Satyam filed Misc. Appeal No.519/2006 in the High

Court of Andhra Pradesh. By its order dated

13.09.2006, the High Court allowed the said appeal,

remitted the matter to the Trial Court for fresh

adjudication on merits. 27. On remand, Satyam filed an application (IA

No.2042/2006) under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code

of Civil Procedure , 1908 (in short “the Code”)

praying for rejection of the plaint and dismissal of

suit. 28. By order dated 28.12.2006, the Trial Judge 15 allowed the application. The plaint was rejected. 29. Challenging the said order, Venture filed

appeal before the High Court. The High Court

dismissed the appeal on 27.02.2007. 30. Aggrieved by the said order, Venture moved

this Court. This Court allowed the appeal by a

reported judgment in Venture Global Engineering

vs. Satyam Computer Services Ltd. & Anr. ,

(2008) 4 SCC 190 (hereinafter referred to as

“Venture-I”). This Court, inter alia, held that: 31. This Court observed "we have not expressed

anything on merits of the claim of both the parties.”

This Court further observed that the Trial Court was

at liberty to transfer the case to the competent

Court to decide the case (if found necessary) on

merits and directed parties to maintain status quo

with respect to transfer of shares. 32. On 17.01.2008, the Eastern District of

Michigan Southern Division, US Court passed an

order observing therein that Venture violated the

order of US Courts which directed the enforcement 18 of the Award and called upon the parties to move to

this Court. Venture filed an appeal to US Court of

Appeal. In the appeal, Venture attempted to provide

some new evidence to show fraud played by Satyam.

It was, however, dismissed on 09.04.2009 33. In the meanwhile, both Venture and Satyam

filed review petitions against the order dated

10.01.2008 passed in Venture I by this Court. By

order dated 29.04.2008, this Court dismissed both

the review petitions. 34. Pursuant to the order of this Court in Venture

I, the Ist Addl. Chief Judge, City Civil Court,

Secunderabad transferred O.S. No.80 of 2006 to the

Court of 2nd Additional Chief Judge, City Civil

Court of Hyderabad. The suit was then converted

into an application under Section 34 of the Act and

was renumbered as O.P. No. 390/2008. 35. On 07.01.2009, B. Ramalinga Raju-Chairman 19 and founder of the Satyam made a disclosure and

confessed in writing that the balance sheets of

Satyam had been manipulated inflating the profits

to the tune of Rs.7080 crores. M/s Price

Waterhouse Cooper (PWC), the auditors of Satyam

was compelled to declare that the financial

statements of Satyam could no longer be considered

accurate or/and reliable. 36. Venture filed an application (IA No. 1331 of

2009 dated 12.06.2009) under Order VIII Rule 9 of

the Code in O.P. No.390/2008 seeking permission

to bring additional facts on record by amending the

pleadings to question the legality of the Award. It

was contended that the disclosure of facts made by

Ramlainga Raju prima facie constituted a fraud and

misrepresentation committed by Satyam on all the

stakeholders including Venture and, therefore, the

Award is liable to be set aside on this ground in 20 addition to those already taken. The Trial Court, by

order dated 03.11.2009, allowed the application. 37. Challenging the order, Satyam filed a revision

before the High Court. By order dated 19.02.2010,

the revision was allowed. The application (IA

No.1331/2009) filed by Venture stood dismissed.

The High Court held that under Section 34 of the

AAC Act, an application for setting aside of an

Award could be filed only within 3 months

(extendable by 30 days) from the date of the Award

and a new ground of attack to the Award cannot be

permitted after the expiry of the period of limitation. 38. Venture carried the matter to this Court. This

Court, by judgment dated 11.08.2010, in Venture

Global Engineering vs. Satyam Computer

Services Limited & Anr. (2010) 8 SCC 660

(hereinafter referred to as Venture II) allowed the

appeal and restored the order of the Trial Court. 21 This Court held that the facts, which are sought to

be brought on record by the Venture, are relevant

for deciding the rights of the parties to O.P. No. 390

of 2008. It was also held that those facts have

causative link with the facts, which constituted the

lis of the Award or induced the making of the Award

and, therefore, relevant and material for deciding

the legality of the Award. 39. In substance, this Court permitted Venture to

challenge the Award on the ground that it was

obtained by playing fraud/misrepresentation/

suppression of material facts. 40. It is apposite to quote Paras 44 to 46 of this

Court’s judgment, which dealt with this issue: aside proceeding. Judging the case from this
 angle, this Court is of the opinion that in the
 interest of justice and considering the
 fairness of procedure, the Court should allow
 the appellant to bring those materials on
 record as those materials are not wholly
 irrelevant or they may have a bearing on the
 appellant’s plea for setting aside the award. 46. Nothing said in this judgment will be
 construed as even remotely expressing any
 opinion on the legality of the award. That
 question will be decided by the court where
 the setting-aside proceeding is pending. The
 proceeding for setting aside the award may
 be disposed of as early as possible, preferably
 within 4 months.” 41. On 28.12.2010, Venture filed a complaint

(suit) in U.S. District Court of Easter District of

Michigan against Satyam alleging, inter alia, that

the Award is vitiated by the fraudulent conduct of 23 the former Chairman of Satyam, who suppressed

the material facts in the arbitral proceedings. In the

complaint (suit), Venture alleged that Ramalinga

Raju played fraud and misrepresentation on all

stakeholders of Satyam including Venture and also

on judicial process. It, therefore, prayed that the

Award in question be set aside on this ground. 42. Satyam entered appearance in the aforesaid

complaint/suit filed by Venture and opposed the

complaint on several grounds. By order dated

30.03.2012, U.S. District Court dismissed the

Venture’s complaint/suit. On 10.04.2012, Venture

filed an application in the complaint seeking

permission to amend the complaint/suit. The U.S.

Court, by order dated 23.08.2012, dismissed the

application. On 21.09.2012, Venture filed an

appeal to U.S. Court of appeal against the order

dated 30.03.2012 rejecting their complaint/suit. 24 Venture also filed an appeal on 12.12.2012 to U.S.

Court of appeal against the order dated 23.03.2012

by which their amended application was rejected. 43. On 13.09.2012, U.S. Court of appeal for the

sixth Circuit allowed the appeal filed by Venture

and set aside the order of the District Court

dismissing the suit/complaint filed by Venture. The

suit/complaint is now remanded to the District

Court. It is pending. 44. Coming back to the litigation pending in Indian

Courts, consequent upon the judgment of this

Court in Venture-II, Satyam joined issues with

Venture on the additional pleadings and contended

that the facts pleaded have no causative links with

Award. Satyam also objected to admissibility of the

documents filed by Venture. The Trial Court heard

the application filed by Venture under Section 34 of

the AAC Act and by its final order dated 31.01.2012 25 allowed the application and set aside the Award.

The Trial Court held: 45. It is, therefore, held that the Award is not

sustainable in law. Sustaining such Award would

be against public policy and the grounds mentioned

above would cumulatively constitute ground for

setting aside the Award under Section 34 of the AAC

Act. 46. Aggrieved by the said order, Satyam carried

the matter in appeal to the High Court in CMA

No.832/2012. 47. After the aforesaid judgment, Venture filed

another civil suit being O.S.No.87/2012 in the

Court of Ist Additional Chief Judge, Secunderabad

against Satyam seeking restitution of all their rights

in JVC as a consequence of setting aside of the 27 Award. During the pendency of the suit, Venture

also applied for grant of ex parte interim relief (IA

No.1143/2012) in relation to transfer of shares of

JVC and by another application being IA No.

1360/2012 sought order restraining Satyam and

JVC not to take any major decision in the affairs of

JVC. 48. By orders dated 27.04.2012 and 04.06.2012,

both the applications were disposed of by the 1st

Additional Chief Judge directing the parties to

maintain status quo in relation to the subject matter

of both the I.As. 49. Satyam preferred two appeals against the said

two orders – CMAs 834 and 844 of 2012. The three

appeals were clubbed together. 50. By interim order dated 22.08.2012, the High

Court directed all the parties to appeals to maintain

status quo in relation to the affairs of JVC and also 28 in relation to the rights of the shareholders of the

said company and of Venture. 51. By final order dated 23.08.2013, the High

Court allowed the appeals filed by Satyam. The High

Court, inter alia, held that: 52. Aggrieved by the said judgment , both Venture

and Satyam filed instant appeals by way of special

leave petitions before this Court. 53. Venture, in substance, seeks restoration of the

order of the Trial Court, which had allowed their

application under Section 34 of the AAC Act and

had set aside the Award. 54. Satyam’s challenge is confined only to the

finding of the High Court that the Trial Court has 31 jurisdiction to entertain and decide the application

filed under Section 34 of the AAC Act. 55. Heard Mr. K. K. Venugopal, learned senior

counsel for Venture Global Engineering LLC-

appellant in SLP(C) Nos.29747-49 of 2013 and

respondent in S.L.P.(C) No.8298 of 2014, Mr. K.V.

Vishwanathan, learned senior counsel for Tech

Mahindra Ltd.-respondent No.1 in SLP(C)

Nos.29747-49 of 2013 and appellant No.1 in

S.L.P.(C) No.8298 of 2014 and Mr. Iqbal Chagla,

learned senior counsel for Satyam Venture

Engineering Services-respondent No.2 in SLP(C)

Nos.29747-49 of 2013 and appellant No.2 in

S.L.P.(C) No.8298 of 2014 and also perused the

written submissions filed by the parties. 56. Mr. K. K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel,

appearing for the Venture while assailing the

legality and correctness of the impugned judgment 32 urged many-fold submissions as detailed

hereinbelow and submitted that the impugned

judgment is legally unsustainable inasmuch as it is

based on wrong application of law which governs

the issues whereas the order of the Trial Court

which rightly allowed the application filed by the

appellant under Section 34 of the AAC Act and set

aside the award deserves to be restored. 57. While elaborating his arguments, learned

senior counsel submitted that firstly, the Award

impugned in Section 34 proceedings out of which

these appeals arise is vitiated on account of fraud,

misrepresentation and suppression of material facts

played by Mr. Raju in the affairs of Satyam.

According to learned counsel, a ground of fraud

which stands made out in this case squarely falls

under Section 34 of the AAC Act and, therefore, the

Award in question deserves to be set aside. 33 58. In the second place, learned senior counsel

submitted that it is not in dispute that Mr. Raju, in

no uncertain terms, admitted in his letter dated

07.01.2009 that he not only indulged in several

fraudulent and illegal acts in the affairs of Satyam

but also indulged in manipulating and fabricating

the accounts and the balance-sheet of Satyam with

a sole intention to secure illegal monetary gains. 59. Learned senior counsel, therefore, submitted

that such fraudulent and illegal acts of Mr. Raju

once surfaced in the public domain had a direct

bearing over the issues involved in the arbitral

proceedings because these acts relate to the period

prior to commencement of arbitral proceedings and

continued during the pendency of arbitral

proceedings but without any knowledge to Venture

and learned Arbitrator and hence the entire arbitral

proceedings, which eventually culminated in 34 passing of the impugned award in ignorance of

these material major events connected with

Venture, Satyam and their affiliates, stood vitiated

on account of Mr. Raju’s activities. 60. In other words, the submission was that, if the

factum of the fraud, misrepresentation, suppression

etc. had been disclosed or/and had come to the

notice of the Arbitrator or/and Venture, it being the

most relevant and material ground, the same could

be made basis for seeking setting aside of the

arbitral proceedings including the Award in

question. In any event, according to learned

counsel, the arbitral proceedings would not have

then resulted in passing of the Award in question in

favour of Satyam, had these facts been taken into

consideration? 61. In the third place, learned senior counsel

submitted that if the fraud/manipulation/ 35 misrepresentation/suppression of material facts had

been disclosed to all the stakeholders including

Venture when actually committed and, in all fairness,

it ought to have been disclosed by Mr. Raju then it

would have enabled Venture to terminate

Agreement-I forthwith and claim appropriate reliefs

against Satyam in terms of Agreement-I at that time

itself. 62. In the fourth place, learned senior counsel

submitted that firstly, the fraud/misrepresentation

/suppression played by Mr. Raju in the affairs of

Satyam was prior in point of time as compared to

the "event of default" by the Venture and secondly,

the acts of Mr. Raju also constituted an "event of

default" under Section 8.01(b) read with Section

11.05 (c) for termination of Agreement-I and for

claiming reliefs against Satyam as per Agreement-I. 63. In the fifth place, learned senior counsel 36 submitted that the confessional statement of Mr.

Raju was a "notorious fact" and known to the whole

world and especially known to those in market and,

therefore, judicial notice of such fact could be taken

by the Court for relying upon the letter including its

contents against Satyam without any further

evidence to prove it. 64. In the sixth place, learned senior counsel

submitted that it is a fundamental principle of law

that any award/order/judgment passed in judicial

proceedings once found to have been obtained by a

party against his adversary by taking recourse to

illegal means such as fraud, manipulation,

misrepresentation, suppression of material facts etc.

then the entire judicial proceedings including

award/order/judgment passed therein is rendered

void ab initio. The reason is that

fraud/manipulation/misrepresentation/suppression 37 of material facts etc., if resorted to while prosecuting

the judicial proceedings for obtaining the

order/judgment/award, the same would result in

vitiating such judicial proceedings. 65. This legal principle, according to learned

senior counsel, applies to the facts of this case with

full force and, therefore, the fraud played,

manipulation done and suppression of material

facts made by Mr. Raju as its creator was rightly

held proved by the Trial Court and was, therefore,

rightly made basis to quash the Award in question

on the ground of it being against the public policy of

India. 66. In the seventh place, learned senior counsel

submitted that the acts of Mr. Raju attracted the

rigor of Section 8 .01(b) read with Section 11 .05 (c)

and since Section 11 .05(c) has an overriding effect

on all sections, as held by this Court in Venture-I, if 38 these acts had been disclosed, it would have

enabled the Venture to seek termination of

Agreement-I under Sections 8 .02 and 8.03 against

Satyam. 67. In other words, according to learned senior

counsel, there was a causative link between the acts

of Mr. Raju, which he did in the affairs of Satyam

and the issues which were subject matter of arbitral

proceedings. It is for this reason, learned counsel

urged that the acts of Mr. Raju constituted an

"event of default" under Section 8 .01 read with Sections 8 .01(b) and 11.05(c). Venture, according

to him, was, therefore, deprived of exercising their

right against Satyam to claim reliefs in terms of

Agreement-I due to suppression of the acts by Mr.

Raju from all stakeholders. 68. In the eighth place, learned senior counsel

submitted that Satyam committed another breach 39 of Section 4 .01 when it appointed Mr. Raju as one of

the nominee Directors on the Board of JVC. It was

also an "event of default" under Section 8 .01 read

with Section 4 .01, which entitled the Venture to

terminate the Agreement-I and seek appropriate

reliefs against Satyam. 69. According to learned senior counsel, a person

who indulged in such acts was not eligible for being

nominated in the Board of JVC. 70. In the ninth place, learned senior counsel

submitted that the scope and width of Sections

8.01(b) and 11.05 (c) is wide enough to include the

acts of Mr. Raju which he did in affairs of Satyam

and his acts were sufficient for terminating the

Agreement-I and seek appropriate relief as provided

in the Agreement-I. 71. In the tenth place, learned senior counsel,

placing reliance on the doctrine of "alter ego of the 40 Company", contended that this doctrine applies to

the facts of this case and, therefore, if the issues

arising in the case are examined in the light of this

doctrine, the Award impugned is liable to be set

aside on this ground also. 72. In the eleventh place, learned senior counsel

contended that in order to decide the questions

involved, it is not necessary to appreciate any

evidence and the issues have to be decided only on

the basis of material on record, which is not in

dispute. Learned counsel, therefore, urged that

keeping in view these submissions, the Award is

against the public policy of India as explained and

clarified in Section 34(2)(b)(ii) Explanation I(i)(ii) and (iii) read with Explanation 2 of the AAC Act and

hence it deserves to be set aside on this ground

also. 73. It is essentially these submissions and some 41 more which are dealt with infra were elaborated by

the learned counsel with the aid of relevant sections

of Agreement-I and II together with decisions of this

Court described as Venture I and Venture II

rendered in the earlier round of litigation in this

very case, relevant provisions of the AAC Act and

decided cases cited at the Bar. 74. In reply, learned counsel for the respondents

supported the impugned order and contended that

the appellant has failed to make out any case for

interference by this Court in the impugned order

inasmuch as none of the submissions urged by

learned counsel for the appellant has any merit and

deserve rejection for want of any factual foundation. 75. Learned counsel further contended that firstly,

the appellant’s submissions are based on sheer

hypothesis with no factual foundation and hence

cannot be made basis to set aside the arbitral 42 proceedings and Award. It was urged that

otherwise also they are totally irrelevant and have

no causative link in any manner with the arbitral

proceedings and nor they have any kind of impact

on the arbitral proceedings much less adverse and

lastly, the acts of Mr. Raju were in relation to affairs

of Satyam and hence had no significance while

examining the legality and correctness of arbitral

proceedings and Award under Section 34 of AAC

Act. It was also urged that there is no evidence to

prove the alleged acts of Mr. Raju as being illegal in

any manner. Learned counsel elaborated these

submissions by placing reliance on relevant sections

of Agreement -I and the decided case law. 76. Having heard learned counsel for the parties

and on perusal of the record of the case and the

written submissions, I find force in the submissions

urged by Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior 43 counsel for the appellant (Venture). 77. In substance, the questions, which arise for

consideration in these appeals, are essentially three.

In other words, the fate of these appeals largely

depends upon the answers to the following

questions as, in my view, these questions are

interlinked together. 78. First, whether the acts of Mr. Raju in the

affairs of Satyam, as admitted by him in his letter

dated 07.01.2009, amounts to misrepresentation/

suppression of material facts and, if so, whether

they could be made basis to seek quashing of an

Award dated 03.04.2006 of the sole Arbitrator on

the ground of it being against the public policy of

India under Section 34(2)(b)(ii) read with

Explanation (1)(i)(ii) and (iii) of the AAC Act; second,

whether the acts of Mr. Raju, in the affairs of

Satyam, has any causative link to the arbitral 44 proceedings or/and to JVC affairs and, if so,

whether such acts constitute an “event of default”

under Section 8 .01(b) read with Section 11 .05(c)

thereby entitling the Venture to terminate the

Agreement I and claim relief as contemplated in Sections 8 .03 and 8.04 against Satyam; and third, if

the aforesaid questions are answered in affirmative

then whether they constitute a ground to enable the

Court to set aside the Award under Section 34 of

AAC Act. 79. Before I examine the facts of this case to

answer the aforementioned questions, it is

necessary to take note of the law, which applies to

the case on hand. Indeed, if I may say so, it is fairly

well settled by the several decisions of this Court. 80. The expression "fraud" occurring in Section 34 is not defined in the AAC Act but is defined in Section 17 of the Indian Contract Act,1872. It reads 45 as under: Explanation.—Mere silence as to facts likely
 to affect the willingness of a person to enter
 into a contract is not fraud, unless the
 circumstances of the case are such that,
 regard being had to them, it is the duty of
 the person keeping silence to speak, or
 unless his silence, is, in itself, equivalent to
 speech.” 81. The expression "public policy of India" and

what it includes is explained and clarified for

avoiding any doubt in the Explanation I(i), (ii) and (iii) and Explanation 2 of Section 34(2)(b)(ii) of the 46 AAC Act. It reads as under: Explanation 1.—For the avoidance of any
 doubt, it is clarified that an award is in
 conflict with the public policy of India, only
 if,— (i) the making of the award was induced
 or affected by fraud or corruption or was in
 violation of Section 75 or Section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the
 fundamental policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic
 notions of morality or justice. Explanation 2.—For the avoidance of doubt,
 the test as to whether there is a
 contravention with the fundamental policy of
 Indian law shall not entail a review on the
 merits of the dispute.” 47 82. The expression "fraud", what it means and

once proved to have been committed by the party to

the Lis against his adversary then its effect on the

judicial proceedings was succinctly explained by

this Court in Ram Chandra Singh vs. Savitri Devi

& Ors. , (2003) 8 SCC 319 in the following words: 83. Similarly, how the leading authors have dealt

with the expressions "fraud”, “misrepresentation”,

“suppression of material facts” with reference to

various English cases also need to be taken note of.

This is what the learned author - “Kerr” in his book

“Fraud and Mistake” has said on these

expressions. 84. While dealing with the question as to what

constitutes fraud, the learned author said, “What

amounts to fraud has been settled by the decision of

House of Lords in Derry vs. Peek (f) where lord

Herscheel said “fraud is proved when it is shown

that a false representation has been made (1)

knowingly or (2) without belief in its truth or (3)

recklessly, careless whether it be true or false.” (See

Kerr on Fraud and Mistake- Seventh Edition. 49 Page 10/11). 85. The author has said that, Courts of Equity

have from a very early period had jurisdiction to set

aside Awards on the ground of fraud, except where

it is excluded by Statute. So also, if the Award was

obtained by fraud or concealment of material

circumstances on the part of one of the parties so as

to mislead the Arbitrator or if either party be guilty

of fraudulent concealment of matters which he

ought to have declared, or if he willfully mislead or

deceive the Arbitrator, such Award may be set

aside. (See - Kerr on Fraud and Mistake - Seventh

Edition - pages 424, 425) 86. The author said that, if a man makes a

representation in point of fact, whether by

suppressing the truth or suggesting what is false,

however innocent his motive may have been, he is

equally responsible in a civil proceeding as if he had 50 while committing these acts done so with a view to

injure others or to benefit himself. It matters not

that there was no intention to cheat or injure the

person to whom the statement was made. (See -

Kerr on Fraud and Mistake – Seventh Edition,

page 7) 87. This rule of law is applicable not only between

the two individuals entering into any contract but is

also applicable between an individual and a

company and also between the two companies.

(See- Kerr on Fraud and Mistake – Seventh

Edition, page 99). 88. The author said that this principle is also not

limited to cases where an express and distinct

representation by words has been made, but it

applies equally to cases where a man by his silence

causes another to believe in the existence of a

certain state of things, or so conducts himself as to 51 induce a reasonable man to take the representation

to be true, and to believe that it was meant that he

should act upon it, and the other accordingly acts

upon it and so alters his previous position. (See -

Kerr on Fraud and Mistake – Seventh Edition,

page 110). 89. The author said that where there is a duty or

obligation to speak, and a man in breach of that

duty or obligation holds his tongue and does not

speak and does not say the thing which he was

bound to say, if that be done with the intention of

inducing the other party to act upon the belief that

the reason why he did not speak was because he

had nothing to say, there is a fraud (See- Kerr on

Fraud and Mistake-Seventh Edition, page 110). 90. So far as expression "public policy of India" in

the context of arbitration cases is concerned, this

Court examined the meaning, scope and ambit of 52 this expression for the first time in the case of Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. vs. General Electric

Co. , 1994 Suppl(1) SCC 644 in the context of Foreign Awards (Recognition & Enforcement) Act,

1961 . It was then examined in the case of Oil &

Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. vs. Saw Pipes Ltd. ,

(2003) 5 SCC 705[ONGC(I)] and then again in

another case of Oil & Natural Gas Corporation

Ltd. vs. Western Geco International Ltd. , (2014) 9

SCC 263[ONGC(II)]. It was recently examined in Associate Builders vs. Delhi Development

Authority , (2015) 3 SCC 49 in the context of Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,

1996. 91. In between this period, this Court had also

examined the expression in some cases. However,

in Associate Builders’s case (supra), this Court

examined the expression in detail in the light of all 53 previous decisions referred above on the subject.

R.F. Nariman, J. speaking for the Bench held that

the law laid down in the cases ONGC (I) and ONGC

(II) has been consistently followed by this Court till

date. His Lordship further clarified the meaning of

expression–“public policy of India” and what it

includes therein and held that violation of the

provisions of Foreign Exchange Act , disregarding

orders of superior Courts in India and their binding

effect, if disregarded, would be violative of the

Fundamental Policy of Indian Laws. It was,

however, held that juristic principle of “judicial

approach” demands that a decision be fair,

reasonable and objective. In other words, a

decision which is wholly arbitrary and whimsical

would not be termed as fair, reasonable or an

objective determination of the questions involved in

the case. It was also held that observance of audi 54 alteram partem principle is also a part of juristic

principle which needs to be followed. It was held

that if the Award is against justice or morality, it is

against public policy. It was held that if there is a

patent illegality noticed in the Award, it is also

against public policy. 92. Keeping in view the aforementioned broad

principle of law in mind, I examine the questions in

the light of undisputed facts of the case on hand

and in the context of the submissions urged. 93. It is apposite to take note of some more

relevant sections of Agreement-I in addition to those

quoted above. In my view, these sections also have

material bearing over the controversy involved as

they show the true nature of Joint Venture

Agreement. Instead of quoting these sections in

verbatim, its reference alone may suffice. 94. These relevant sections are, (1) Recitals in the 55 Agreement, (2) Clause C of Recitals, (3) Section

1 .01(c) and (d), (4) Section 3 .02-Place of business,

(5) Section 4 .01-Authority of Board; Election of

Chairman, (6) Section 4 .03-Board Meetings and

related matters, (7) Section 4 .06-Financial,

Accounting and Tax Matters, (8) Section 5 .06-

Capital, (9) Section 5 .07-Relationship between the

Shareholders and the Company, (10) Section 5 .08-

Power of Board of Directors, (11) Section 6 .03-

Ownership of Proprietary Information; Public

Disclosures; Non-use of Proprietary and

Confidential information, (12) Section 6 .07-

Representation and Warranties, (13) Definitions of

expressions – (a) Affiliate, (b) Company’s Act, and (c)

Shareholder or Shareholders. 95. Reading of Agreement-I as a whole and, in

particular, in the context of the afore-noted sections

of the Agreement would go to show (1) the nature of 56 the Joint Venture Agreement, (2) who are parties to

the agreement and what are their inter se rights and

obligations, and (3) how and in what manner the

JVC was to do business in India. 96. Following features emerge from reading the

Agreements: 97. It is not in dispute that the Agreements were

entered into in the year 1999 whereas the business

operations of JVC began in 2000. It is also not in

dispute that in terms of Section 5 .06(a) and (b),

Satyam was to give loan in cash and provide all

infrastructural facilities, Human Resources,

Accounting, Networking facilities and legal advice to

JVC. It is also not in dispute that Satyam and

Venture, on 20.10.1999, had prepared a financial

plan pursuant thereto each one had contributed

$US 300.000 and $US 60.000 per month to cover 59 short falls in Bank loan of JVC. (page 176 of SLP

paper book). It is also not in dispute that in terms

of the Agreements ( Section 4 .01/5.03), Mr. Raju was

nominated as Chairman of JVC and he presided

over all the Board of Directors meetings of JVC from

2000 onwards in addition to presiding over of the

Board meetings of Satyam being its Chairman. 98. At this stage, it is apposite to reproduce in

verbatim the most crucial document namely, a

“confessional statement of Mr. Raju in the form of a

letter dated 7th January, 2009 addressed to

Satyam's Board of Directors". It is this confessional

statement, which turned the entire complexion of

the case on hand. 99. As mentioned above, this Court, in earlier

round of litigation in two decisions, namely, Venture

I and II, permitted the Venture to raise the

additional plea in Section 34 proceedings to 60 challenge the arbitral proceedings including the

Award on the basis of Mr. Raju's confessional

statement made on 07.01.2009. It was held by this

Court that such being a material fact which came

into existence as a subsequent event had a direct

bearing over the issues arising in the case, the

legality and correctness of arbitral proceedings

including the Award could, therefore, be tested in

the light of this material subsequent event. It was

also held that since the case on hand relates to the

period prior to Balco’s regime (supra), it would be

governed by Bhatia (supra) regime and, in

consequence, fall in Part I of the AAC Act. It was

held that, as a result, the legality of the Award,

though foreign in nature, could still be decided

under Section 34 of the AAC Act by the Indian

Courts. These findings attained finality being

rendered inter se parties in this very case, are 61 binding on the parties. This is the reason, why the

issues arising in this case are being decided in these

proceedings. 100. The letter dated 07.01.2009 reads as under: a. Inflated (non-existent)cash and bank balances
 of Rs.5,040 crore (as against Rs.5361 crore
 reflected in the books)

 b. An accrued interest of Rs.376 crore which is
 non-existent. c. An understated liability of Rs.1,230 crore on
 account of funds arranged by me. d. An over stated debtors position of Rs.490
 crore (as against Rs.2651 reflected in the
 books) 62 2. For the September quarter (Q2) we reported a
 revenue of Rs.2,700 crore and an operating
 margin of Rs.649 crore (24% of revenues) as
 against the actual revenues of Rs.2,112 crore
 and an actual operating margin of Rs.61 crore
 (3% of revenues). This has resulted in
 artificial cash and bank balances going up by
 Rs.583 crore in Q2 alone. The gap in the balance Sheet has arisen
 purely on account of inflated profits over a
 period of last several years (limited only to
 Satyam stand alone, books of subsidiaries
 reflecting true performance). What started as
 a marginal gap between actual operating
 profit and the one reflected in the books of
 accounts continued to grow over the years. It
 has attained unmanageable proportions as
 the size of company operations grew
 significantly (annualized revenue run rate of
 Rs.11,276 crore in the September quarter,
 2008 and official reserves of Rs.8,392 crore).
 The differential in the real profits and the
 one reflected in the books was further
 accentuated by the fact that the company
 had to carry additional resources and assets
 to justify higher level of operations – thereby
 significantly increasing the costs. Every attempt made to eliminate the gap
 failed. As the promoters held a small
 percentage of equity, the concern was that
 poor performance would result in a take-over,
 thereby exposing the gap. It was like riding a
 tiger, not knowing how to get off without
 being eaten. The aborted Maytas acquisition deal was the
 last attempt to fill the fictitious assets with
 real ones. Maytas’ investors were convinced
 that this is a good divestment opportunity 63 and a strategic fit. Once Satyam’s problem
 was solved, it was hoped that Maytas’
 payments can be delayed. But that was not to
 be. What followed in the last several days is
 common knowledge. I would like the Board to know: Every attempt was made to keep the wheel
 moving and to ensure prompt payment of
 salaries to the associates. The last straw was
 the selling of most of the pledged share by
 the lenders on account of margin triggers. 3. That neither me, nor the Managing Director
 took even one rupee/dollar from the
 company and have not benefited in financial
 terms on account of the inflated results. 4. None of the board members, past or present,
 had any knowledge of the situation in which
 the company is placed. Even business leaders
 and senior executives in the company, such
 as, Ram Mynampati, Subu D, T.R. Anand, 64 Keshab Panda, Virender Agarwal, A.S.
 Murthy, Hari T, SV Krishnan, Vijay Prasad,
 Manish Mehta, Murali V, Sriram Papani, Kiran
 Kavale, Joe Lagioia, Ravindra Penumetsa,
 Jayaraman and Prabhakar Gupta are unaware
 of the real situation as against the books of
 accounts. None of my or Managing Director’s
 immediate or extended family members has
 any idea about these issues. Having put these facts before you, I leave it
 to the wisdom of the board to take the
 matters forward. However, I am also taking
 the liberty to recommend the following steps: I have promoted and have been associated
 with Satyam for well over twenty years now. I 65 have seen it grow from few people to 53,000
 people, with 185 Fortune 500 companies as
 customers and operations in 66 countries. Satyam has established an excellent
 leadership and competency base at all levels.
 I sincerely apologize to all Satyamites and
 stakeholders, who have made Satyam a
 special organization, for the current
 situation. I am confident they will stand by
 the company in this hour of crisis. In light of the above, I fervently appeal to the
 board to hold together to take some
 important steps. Mr. T.R. Prasad is well
 placed to mobilize support from the
 government at this crucial time. With the
 hope that members of the Task Force and the
 financial advisor, Merrill Lynch (now Bank of
 America) will stand by the company at this
 crucial hour, I am marking copies of this
 statement to them as well. Under the circumstances, I am tendering my
 resignation as the chairman of Satyam and
 shall continue in this position only till such
 time the current board is expanded. My
 continuance is just to ensure enhancement of
 the board over the next several days or as
 early as possible. I am now prepared to subject myself to the
 laws of the land and face consequences
 thereof. (B.Ramalinga Raju)
Copies marked to: Justice Y.V.Chandrachud (as His Lordship then

was), who speaking for the Bench held as under: section(3B) provides that if the Company does not

comply with the accounting standard prescribed

then they have to disclose the reasons for not being

able to do so. Non-compliance of these provisions

renders the Company to suffer penalty prescribed

under Section 628 and other Sections of the Act. 109. Keeping in view the requirements of Sections

209 and 211, I am of the considered opinion that 71 the acts of Mr. Raju, in the affairs of Satyam, were

prima facie in breach of Sections 209 and 211 of

1956 Act and other Acts. It had adverse impact on

the affairs of Satyam, its affiliates and on those who

were dealing with Satyam at the relevant time. 110. These acts also constituted the acts of

misrepresentation and suppression of material facts

on the part of Mr. Raju which he himself candidly

confessed to have done it by expressing his regrets

only in his letter dated 07.01.2009. In my view, the

principle of law quoted from “Kerr” above squarely

applies to the facts of this case. I, accordingly, hold

so against Satyam. 111. This takes me to examine the next question as

to whether the acts of Mr. Raju, in the affairs of

Satyam, amount to "event of default" under Sections

8 .01 and 11.05(c) of Agreement-I and, if so, its effect

on the rights of the parties to the Agreement. 72 112. In my opinion, the acts of Mr. Raju amount to

“event of default" under Section 8 .01(b) and Section

11 .05(c) of Agreement-I for the following reasons: Venture also lost their right to defend Satyam’s

claim before the Arbitrator on these grounds, which

were deliberately suppressed by Satyam from

Venture. 124. Sixth, it is a well settled principle of law that

commission of fraud, misrepresentation,

suppression of material facts from the adversary in

the judicial proceedings and the Court/Arbitrator

result in vitiating the entire judicial/arbitral

proceedings including judgment/order/award

passed thereon once come to the knowledge of the

party concerned. On proving existence of

commission of fraud, misrepresentation,

suppression of material facts by the party concern,

the judicial/arbitral proceedings are rendered illegal

and void ab initio. This principle applies to arbitral 78 proceedings in question and to Award dated

03.04.2006 and thus renders both void ab initio. I

accordingly hold so. 125. Seventh, the Award dated 03.04.2006 is also

against the public policy of India in the light of law laid down by this Court in the case of Associate

builder’s case quoted supra, It is, therefore, liable

to be set aside for the reasons that it is proved that

the Award was obtained by Satyam against Venture

by misrepresentation and suppression of material

facts having bearing over the proceedings; second,

the acts of Mr. Raju, in the affairs of Satyam, as its

Chairman violated several sections of IPC,

Companies Act and FEMA; and third, the arbitral

proceedings in question due to this reason, which

came to knowledge to all stakeholders of Satyam

including Venture subsequent to passing of the

Award could not be said to have been held fairly or 79 reasonably but were concluded to the detriment of

the interest of Venture causing them prejudice

while defending their interest before the learned

Arbitrator. It also deprived Venture from exercising

their contractual right for want of knowledge of

these acts of Mr. Raju against Satyam at

appropriate stage in court of law in terms of

agreement. All this occurred obviously due to

Satyam concealing these major events at all relevant

time from Venture. 126. As taken note of above, once the fraud,

misrepresentation or suppression of fact, if found to

have been done by the party in any judicial

proceedings is later discovered or disclosed then it

would relate back to the date of its actual

commission and would necessarily result in vitiating

such judicial proceedings. Such is the case here. 127. The Award of an arbitral Tribunal can be set 80 aside only on the grounds specified in Section 34 of

the AAC Act and on no other ground. The Court

cannot act as an Appellate Court to examine the

legality of Award nor it can examine the merits of

claim by entering in factual arena like an Appellate

Court. It has to confine its enquiry only to the

limited issue as to whether any ground specified in

Section 34 of AAC Act is made out or not. Once the

ground under Section 34 of the AAC Act is made

out, the Award then has to be set aside. In the case

on hand, in my view, a ground under Section

34(2)(b)(ii) read with Explanation I (i)(ii) and (iii) is

made out. I accordingly hold so. 128. In the light of foregoing discussion, I am of

the opinion that the arbitral proceedings including

the Award in question was passed in violation of

public policy of India under Section 34(2)(b)(ii) read

with Explanation 1(i), (ii) and (iii) of the AAC Act and 81 thus not legally sustainable. I accordingly hold so. 129. This takes me to examine the next argument of

learned senior counsel for the appellant that the

High Court was not right in dismissing the

appellant’s application by applying the principle of

"issue-estoppel". I find force in the appellant’s

submission. 130. This Court in the case of Masud Khan vs.

State of Uttar Pradesh , (1974) 3 SCC 469 had the

occasion to consider the question of applicability of

principle of "issue-estoppel" to judicial proceedings.

Their Lordships speaking through A. Alagiriswami,

J. examined the facts of that case in the light of law laid down in several English and Indian cases and

held that principle of "issue-estoppel" applies to

criminal proceedings only and not to any other

proceedings. This is what His Lordship held in para

4 and in concluding para: 82 5. The petition is dismissed.” 85 131. Applying the aforesaid principle of law to the

facts of the case, I find that the arbitral proceedings

out of which these appeals arise are essentially in

the nature of the civil proceedings and, therefore, in

the light of law laid down in the case of Masud

Khan (supra), the High Court was not right in

applying the principle of "issue-estoppel" for

dismissing the application filed by the appellant

under Section 34 of the AAC Act. 132. In other words, the application filed by the

appellant under Section 34 of the AAC Act could not

be dismissed by applying the principle of "issue-

estoppel", which in the light of law laid down in the

case of Masud Khan (supra) had no application to

the civil proceedings. 133. Mr. Chagla and Mr. Vishwanathan, learned

senior counsel for the respondents, apart from

supporting the impugned judgment of the High 86 Court made various submissions on the merits of

the case as taken note of supra. However, in the

light of the detailed reasoning given supra, the

submissions of learned counsel for the respondents

do not survive. They need not be, therefore, dealt

with separately again in detail. 134. Yet, another submission of Mr. Vishwanathan

in Satyam’s appeal that Satyam still has a right to

raise the issues on merits in Section 34 proceedings

in Trial Court has no substance in the light of what

I have held above. 135. In my view, the issues arising in the case must

be given quietus in third round of litigation in this

Court and which I hereby give to the case.

Moreover, when the grounds urged by the appellant

(Venture) to attack the Award are made out on

merits in these proceedings and which were also

dealt with by the two Courts below then I do not 87 find any justification to again send the case back to

the Trial Court to decide the case on merits on some

other ground. It is more so when such prayer was

not made in the Courts below. 136. That apart, there is enough material on record

on which decision could be rendered on the merits

of the case. Indeed, it was so rendered by the Trial

Court and the High Court though of reversal. In

the light of facts emerging from the record, it is not

considered necessary to have another round of

litigation for filing any additional material or to

adduce any more evidence again before the Trial

Court. 137. Learned counsel for the appellant attacked the

legality of the Award on other grounds also. In the

light of foregoing discussion, I do not consider it

necessary to deal with any other grounds. 138. Learned counsel for the appellant cited several 88 decisions in support of his submission. These

decisions are: 2008(4) SCC 190, 2010(8) SCC 660,

2015(10) SCC 213, 2016(2) Scale 60, 2003(5) SCC

705, 1997(3) SCC 540, 1993(2) SCC 507,1996(4)

SCC 622, 1972 Appeal Cases 153, 2015(4) SCC

609, 1995(2) SCC 513, 2010(8) SCC 665, 1994(1)

SCC 1, 2000(3) SCC 581, 1964(4) SCR 19, 1974(1)

SCC 242, 2003(8) SCC 673, 1955(2) SCR 271,

1969(1) SCR 1006, 1977(2) SCC 611, 2010(8) SCC

660, 1995(1) SCC 478, 2005(4) SCC 605, 2005(4)

SCC 530, 2015(4) SCC 609, 2010(8) SCC 44,

2011(1) SCC 74, 2009(10) SCC 259, 2016(4) SCC

126 and 1955(1) SCR 206. 139. Learned Counsel for the respondents cited

several decisions in support of his submissions.

These decisions are: 1966(3) SCC 527, 2010(4) SCC

491, 1972 (2) SCR 646, 1968(3) SCR 1, 2012(8) SCC

148, AIR 1971 SC 1949, 1972(4) SCC 562, 2013(10) 89 SCC 758, 1966(3) SCR 283, 1996(4) SCC 622,

2010(7) SCC 1, 1977(2) SCC 611, 1977(8) SCC 683,

2003(11) SCC 405, 1996(6) SCC 665, 2005(4) SCC

530, 2006(6) SCC 94, 2009(17) SCC 796, 1951 SCR

548, 1998(4) SCC 577 and 1996(5) SCC 550. 140. I have carefully gone through these decisions

cited at the bar by both the learned counsel

appearing for the parties. In my view, there can be

no quarrel to the legal principles laid down in these

cases as they are laid down in the light of facts

involved in them. However, in the light of what I

have held supra, it is not necessary to deal with

each of these decisions in detail separately. 141. I, however, consider it apposite to mention that

I have considered the issue arising in arbitral

proceedings in the context of AAC Act only and,

have not expressed any opinion on any of the case

relating to this case which are pending in various 90 Courts in India including in foreign Courts against

Satyam and its officials and vice versa. All such

pending cases will, accordingly, be decided in

accordance with law. 142. In view of foregoing discussion, the questions

posed above are answered in affirmative and in

favour of the appellant (Venture) and against the

respondent(Satyam). The appeals filed by Venture

Global Engineering LLC thus succeed and are,

accordingly, allowed with cost of Rs.5 lacs payable

by Satyam to the appellant (Venture). Impugned

judgment of the High Court is accordingly set aside

and that of the judgment/order passed by the Trial

Court is hereby restored. 143. As a consequence, the application filed by the

Venture (appellant herein) under Section 34 of the

AAC Act, out of which these appeals arise, is

allowed. As a result thereof, the entire arbitral 91 proceedings including the Award dated 03.04.2006

passed by the sole Arbitrator is set aside as being

against the public policy of India under Section

34(b)(ii) read with Explanation I(i)(ii) and (iii) of the

AAC Act. 144. As a Consequence, the appeal filed by Tech

Mahindra is dismissed. ...……..................................J.
 [ABHAY MANOHAR SAPRE]
New Delhi; Date : 01-11-2017 These petitions were called on for pronouncement
 of judgment today. For Petitioner(s)/ Mr. K.V. Vishwanathan,Sr.Adv,

 Respondent(s) Mr. Abhijit Sinha,Adv. Ms. Shally Bhasin,Adv. Mr. Siddhant Boxy,Adv. Mr. E. C. Agrawala, AOR

 Mr. Dhruv Mehta,Sr.Adv. Mr. V.K. Misra,Adv. Mr. Rajat Taimni,Adv. Mr. Naval Sharma,Adv. Mr. Saket Satapathy,Adv. Mrs. Shriye Luke,Adv. Mr. Devendra Singh, AOR

 Mr. Abhijit Sinha,Adv. Mr. Abhinav Mukerji, AOR

 Hon'ble Mr. Justice J. Chelameswar and Hon'ble Mr. Justice
Abhay Manohar Sapre pronounced separate and dissenting judgments of
the Bench comprising His Lordship and Hon'ble Mr. Justice Abhay
Manohar Sapre, in these petitions. Leave granted in the SLPs. In terms of common signed
reportable order, the Registry is directed to place the papers
before Hon'ble the Chief Justice of India for appropriate further
course of action. Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of. (Two signed reportable judgments and the common order are placed on
the file) 2