1. On 16.06.1998 at about 6:00 am Tek Chand along with his

 brothers Charan Singh, Rajbir Singh and other co-villagers namely

 Kiran Singh S/o Sh. Tejpal, Mukesh Nut s/o Sh. Nahar Singh, Lillu

 S/o Sh. Pop Singh resident of Village Bhareta, Anil S/o Sh. Ved

 Parkash, Inderjeet S/o Sh Mohar Singh both resident of

 Ghaziabad were sitting in the Gher situated at village Kuria Garhi,

 PS:Masuri, Distt. Ghaziabad. They were writing cards for

 distribution. In the meanwhile in two cars Ashok Pehlwan,

 Shobha, Rakesh, Yogesh and Rukamkesh all sons of Sh. Jai

 Parkash and two unknown persons came there. They all were

 armed with weapons. Ashok and Rakesh were having rifles and

 other were having revolvers and tamancha. Ashok said you are

 our relatives but are helping the murderers of our father. On this

 Tek Chand and his brother cleared their position and said that

 there is some miss understanding. Ashok and other persons did

 not trust them and they started firing indiscriminately to murder

 them. In this firing Charan Singh, Rajbir Singh and Mukesh Nut

 died on the spot and all other persons fled away to save their lives.

 Accused persons fired on them. Kiran Singh also sustained injury

 in the incident. All the accused persons left while saying that

 whoever will support their opposite party will face the same FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 2 of 34 consequences. Complaint was made by Sh. Tek Chand in the

 police station about the incident on the basis of information FIR

 No.157/98 was registered in the police station. Police arrived on

 the spot, removed the dead bodies to the hospital where post

 mortem was conducted. Investigation was carried out but the

 accused persons could not be arrested. The charge sheet was

 filed against five accused persons namely Ashok Pehlwan,

 Rakesh, Rukmesh, Yogesh and Shobha Ram. Identity of the other

 2 accused persons could not be established. The above named

 accused persons also could not be traced and proceedings u/s 82 Cr.P.C were carried out against them. The accused persons were

 arrested in another murder case. Thereafter they were formally

 arrested in this case. The accused persons were granted bail by

 the Hon'ble High Court which was challenged before the Hon'ble

 High Court and the Hon'ble Supreme Court was pleased to cancel

 bail. He could not be arrested thereafter. While the investigation

 was going on accused Ashok made an application to the State on

 13.08.2009 accordingly, the case was transferred to CBCID for

 investigation and thereafter the investigation was carried out by

 CBCID. CBCID after completion of investigation filed the charge

 sheet. During the pendency of the case accused Ashok Pehlwan

 absconded and was declared Proclaimed Offender. 2. All the accused were charged for the offence punishable u/s FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 3 of 34 147/148/302 IPC read with section 149 / 452 and 506 IPC by Sh.

 U.S. Awasthi, Special Judge ESMA/Addl. Sessions Judge,

 Ghaziabad. Though the charge was framed against all the 5

 accused persons but the record reveals that plea of all the

 accused were not recorded and bear signatures of accused

 Shobha Ram, Yogesh and Rukmesh. Signatures of Ashok and

 Rakesh were not there. As lateron Ashok absconded and was

 declared Proclaimed Offender but trial against Rakesh continued

 therefore, charge was re-framed on 28.01.2015, all the accused

 persons pleaded not guilty they also do not wish to recall any

 witnesses already examined. 3. During the pendency of the proceedings while the evidence

 of witnesses was being recorded the witnesses moved application

 before the Supreme Court that they are getting the threats and

 therefore the Supreme Court was pleased to transfer the case

 from U.P to Delhi and accordingly, this case came up before this

 court for trial. 4. Prosecution in order to prove its case examined 26

 witnesses. 5. Tek Chand was examined as PW-1. He has supported the

 case of the prosecution in material parts and specifically deposed

 that accused persons murdered Charan Singh, Rajbir and Mukesh

 Nut. Accused Rakesh and Ashok were armed with rifles and other FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 4 of 34 accused were armed with revolvers and Tamancha. He deposed

 that accused suspected that the complainant party was helping the

 murderer of their father. The complainant party told the accused

 persons that they are grand sons of their real uncle and they are

 not helping the murderer of their father but they did not pay any

 heed to the same and started firing. In the firing Rajbir, Charan

 Singh died on the spot and fell down on the cot on which they

 were sitting. Mukesh gave a lathie blow on the Maruti Car in which

 accused persons came there, thereafter he was also shot dead.

 The witness along with other persons i.e. Kiran, Anil, Lillu and

 Inderjeet fled from the spot in order to save themselves. Kiran

 also sustained injury in this incident. During cross examination he

 stated that accused persons came in 2 vehicles and those vehicles

 were stopped in front of gher on Khadanja. Accused persons fired

 from a distance of 4 to 6 steps and they fired towards both the cots

 on which the complainant party was sitting. Rajbir and Charan

 Singh fell on the cot after being hit by the bullets. Accused

 persons fired for 10-20 seconds and remained there for about 1-2

 minutes. Mukesh was hit with the bullet outside the Gher near the

 tap. Mukesh was sitting on the same cot on which Rajbir was

 sitting. He further stated that Mukesh was not having lathi in his

 hand while he was setting on the cot he lifted the lathi from the

 Gher. He hit the Maruti Car of accused persons with that Lathi and FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 5 of 34 only thereafter, accused persons fired at him. He stated that he

 told this fact to the IO that Mukesh lifted the Lathi from Gher but

 this fact does not found mention in his complaint. He stated that

 his statement was recorded by CBCID also and he was confronted

 with his statement recorded by CBCID about picking up lathi from

 the Gher. He was also confronted with his statement recorded by

 CBCID where it was mentioned that Ashok, Shobha and Yogesh

 in conspiracy sent Rakesh and Rukmesh and 6 other persons to

 their Gher and they committed murder of Rajbir, Charan Singh and

 Mukesh Nut. He stated that he did not ask police to get Kiran

 treated. Kiran sustained injury on his arm and he told this fact to

 the police. He also told the police that Kiran does not want any

 treatment in hospital but this fact also did not find mention in his

 statement. He denied the suggestions that at the time of incident

 he, Anil, Lillu and Inderjeet were not at the spot. He denied the

 suggestion that at the time of incident accused Ashok, Shobha

 Ram and Yogesh were lodged in Mujjfarnagar Jail and were not

 present on the spot. He did not notice the registration number of

 the car. He stated that Rajbir Singh sustained injury on his

 shoulder and bullet came out from the side of hip. Charan Singh

 sustained bullet injury on right side of his chest and bullet came

 out from the back side. Police also lifted bullets from the spot. 6. Dr. Bhargav was examined as PW-2 he conducted the post FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 6 of 34 mortem on the dead body of Charan Singh. He noticed 2 fire arm

 injuries on the person of Charan singh, proved the post mortem

 report as Ex.PW2/क-2. The doctor opined that deceased died due

 to injuries sustained by fire arm. The clothes found on the dead

 body i.e. one Tehmat, underwear and one shirt and Kada, were

 sealed and handed over to the police. This witness also

 conducted post mortem on the dead body of Rajbir Singh and

 found 2 fire arm injuries on the body. Doctor opined the cause of

 death as shock and hemorrhagic as a result of fire arm injury

 clothes i.e. Tehmat, underwear, shirt and Kada were sealed and

 handed over to the police. Post mortem report is Ex.PW2/क-3.

 On the dead body of Mukesh three fire arm injuries were found.

 Doctor opined the cause of death as shock and hemorrhage due

 to fire arm injuries. On the dead body one Baniyan, underwear

 and Kada were found which was sealed and handed over to the

 police. The post mortem report is Ex.PW2/क-4. The bullets were

 also recovered from the dead body which were sealed and handed

 over to the police. Nothing material came on record during cross-

 examination. 7. SI Mewa Ram was examined as PW-3. He deposed that on

 31.07.1998 he was in the patrolling along with police station

 incharge Sher Bahadur Singh and other police officials and was

 searching for accused persons. They received secret information FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 7 of 34 that the car No. DL 7C 4976 and the accused involved in the FIR

 are coming towards the canal. On this they reached near Alipur

 Tiraha. On seeing the police driver turned the car in the opposite

 direction and drove in the opposite direction. They chased them

 but the occupants of the car fled away in the fields leaving the car

 at Badka Alipur Tiraha. The occupants of the car could not be

 apprehended. The car was seized vide memo Ex.PW2/क-5.

 Nothing material came on record during cross examination of this

 witness. 8. SI Pratap Singh was examined as PW-4. He recorded the

 FIR on the basis of complaint of Tek Chand written by Nathu Ram

 and proved the same as Ex.PW2/क-7 & 8. 9. Inderjeet Singh one of the eye witness was examined as

 PW-5. Tek Chand is his brother-in-law (Jija). Charan Singh and

 Rajbir Singh were brothers of Tek Chand. He deposed that on

 16.06.1998 at about 6:00 am he was present in the Gher of Tek

 Chand situated in village Kuria Garhi. Tek Chand, Rajbir, Charan

 Singh, Lillu, Anil, Kiran and Mukesh were also present there they

 were writing the marriage cards of the daughter of Charan Singh

 while sitting on the cot. Two Maruti cars stopped at the gate of

 Gher. 7 persons came out of the car namely Ashok, Shobha,

 Rakesh, Rukmesh and Yogesh and two other persons all residents

 of village Kuria Garhi, againsaid five were of village Kuria Garhi FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 8 of 34 and other two persons, he can identify if produced before him.

 They all were armed with riffles, Tamanchas and revolvers. All

 accused told the relatives of this witness that they are supporting

 their enemies on which relatives of this witness told them that they

 are not supporting them but accused persons did not Trust them

 and started firing. Rajbir Singh and Charan Singh were hit by

 bullets and they fell down on the cots. This witness along with

 others fled away in order to save their lives. Mukesh Nut picked

 up a danda while fleeing and hit on Maruti Car on which accused

 persons fired at Mukesh, he fell down on the Khadanja. Kiran also

 sustained bullet injury. Thereafter, all accused persons ran away

 in their cars. One of the car was bearing No. DL 7C 4956. Charan

 Singh, Rajbir Singh and Mukesh died on the spot. He also

 identified accused persons present in the court. While leaving the

 spot accused persons were saying if anybody stood witness

 against them he would face the same consequences. During

 cross examination he stated that the marriage of daughter of

 Charan Singh was to be solemnized on 18.06.1998. He was in the

 village Kuria Garhi for the last 3-4 days. He was doing business at

 that time and was running a atta chakki (Flour mill) he was having

 an employee to run that Chakki. Charan Singh was writing cards

 at that time. Nobody ran with the cards. All the cards were left at

 the cot. He did not return to the spot after the incident on that day. FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 9 of 34 All the accused persons fired indiscriminately. They fired on the

 persons who ran from there and thereafter fled away in those cars.

 He told that he also gave name of Ashok, Rakesh, Rukmesh and

 Shoba. He denied the suggestion that he gave the name of

 Rakesh and Rukmesh only to the police. He was confronted with

 his statement about presence of accused persons on the spot. He

 denied the suggestion that he had deposed falsely. 10. Inspector Chander Pal Singh was examined as PW-6. He

 stated that investigation of this case was assigned to him on

 24.08.1998. During investigation he collected the file and the

 exhibits. On 08.01.1999 he recorded the statement of Tek Chand

 and Nathu Ram. On 10.02.2001 he inspected the scene of crime.

 Thereafter, he was transferred. He also recorded statement of

 Lillu and Inderjeet. During cross-examination he stated that Tek

 Chand did not tell him that Mukesh Nut lifted lathie from the Gher

 however, he stated that at the time of incident Mukesh Nut came

 with the lathie and while accused persons were firing on him and

 his brother Mukesh Nut hit the Maruti car of accused persons with

 the Lathie on which accused persons fired on him. He stated that

 Tek Chand told him that accused Ashok, Shobha and Yogesh in

 conspiracy sent Rakesh and Rukmesh and 6 others and got the

 offence committed. He also stated that witness Inderjeet told him

 that in two vehicles Rakesh, Rukmesh along with 5-6 other FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 10 of 34 persons came there. He also stated that Inderjeet also told him

 that Mukesh Nut lifted danda from Gher and hit on the car of

 accused persons. He also stated that during investigation he

 came to know accused Ashok, Shobha and Yogesh were in District

 Jail Mujaffar Nagar on 14.06.1998 and accused Ashok was

 released on 23.06.1998 and accused Shobha and Yogesh were

 released on 26.06.1998. 11. Sh. Vinod Kumar Singh retired SI was examined as PW-7.

 Investigation after registration of FIR was assigned to him. He

 reached at the spot along with the staff. He found the dead bodies

 there and carried out the Panchnama and thereafter got the dead

 bodies removed for post mortem. Thereafter, he inspected the

 scene of crime at the instance of Tek Chand and prepared site

 plan Ex.2/क-9. He seized the cot stained with blood in the

 presence of witnesses on which Charan Singh was found dead

 vide memo Ex.PW2/K-10. The blood stained Rope (Baan of the

 cot) on which Charan Singh was found dead Ex.PW2/K10. Cot on

 which Rajbir was found dead was seized vide Ex.PW2/क-11.

 Empty cartrdige of .315 bor, 12 bor and 21RPR vide memo

 Ex.PW2/क-12 which was found at the spot, shoes and slippers

 were seized vide memo Ex.PW2/क-13. Thereafter, on 17.06.1998

 he recorded statement of Nilu, Anil S/o Sh. Ved Prakash, Inderjeet

 S/o Sh. Mohar Singh, Kiran Singh S/o Sh. Tej Pal, collected post FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 11 of 34 mortem report of Charan Singh, Rajbir and Mukesh. On

 18.06.1998 he searched for accused persons but they could not

 be traced. On 02.07.1996 the property of accused persons in Village

 Kuria Garhi was attached. He identified the case property

 produced. During cross-examination he stated that after the

 investigation by the local police, the investigation was carried out

 by CBCID. He admitted that he had not given the distance

 between point A to D in Ex.PW2/क-9 (site plan). He also admitted

 that he had not mentioned anything with respect to circle drawn at

 point 'I' in Ex.PW2/क-9. He stated that he does not know if

 accused Ashok, Shobha and Yogesh were sent to Jail on

 14.06.1998 u/s 151 / 107 / 116 Cr.P.C or that Yogesh and Shobha

 Ram were released from Jail on 26.06.1998 and Ashok was

 released from Jail on 23.06.1998. He stated that site plan was

 prepared at about 11:00 am or 12:00 noon. The dead body of

 Charan Singh was found on cot-A and of Rajbir on cot-B. The

 distance between 2 cots was of 6 steps. The body of Mukesh was

 found lying on the cot at a distance of 25-30 steps from Gher. In

 the site plan Ex.PW2/क-9 he had not shown that the dead bodies

 were found on the cot. He also stated that no marriage card was

 found on the spot. He denied the suggestion that dead body of

 Mukesh was found in the Veranda of some other person. FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 12 of 34 12. SI Rakam Singh was examined as PW-8. He was working

 as SI and was under transfer at that tiem. He joined the

 investigation and in his presence Panchnama regarding dead body

 of Mukesh was prepared which is Ex.PW2/क-15. He also proved

 the panchnama of dead body of Rajbir Singh as Ex.PW2/क-16 and

 of Charan Singh as Ex.PW2/क-17. He stated that at the time of

 preparing panachnama SI V.K. Singh was also present at the spot.

 The other documents prepared in this regard are Ex.PW2/क-18 to

 Ex.PW क-28 including the photographs. The witness stated that

 deadbody of Mukesh was found in the veranda / Baithak of Tarif

 Singh, uncle of Mukesh. 13. Ct. Harpal Singh was examined as PW-9. He identified the

 charge sheet prepared by SI Udai Vir Singh, Inspector Incharge of

 CBCID and identified his signatures. 14. SI Sher Bahadur Singh was examined as PW-10. He was

 working as SHO. He stated that on that day he was on patrolling

 duty alongwith other staff including SI Mewa Ram, Ct. Ram Pal,

 Ct. Vinod in Govt. Jeep. They received secret information that

 Maruti Car used in the offence of case FIR No:157/98 are coming

 from Moorad Nagar, Patri of Canal towards Masuri. On this

 information he made a Naka bandi at Badka pul. At about 9 pm

 the noticed a car but on seeing the police picket driver turned the

 car and drove in opposite direction. At Badka Pul, Alipor, Tiraha FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 13 of 34 the occupants of the car left the car and fled away. The car was

 seized vide Ex.PW2/क-5. During cross-examination nothing

 material came on record. 15. Inspector Yashvir Singh was examined as PW-11. On

 27.12.2001 the investigation of the case was handed over to him.

 On 26.03.2002 the investigation was transferred to Inspector D.P.

 Singh of CBCID. During this period no investigation was carried

 out by Inspector Yashvir Singh. 16. Deputy S.P. Rajbir Singh was examined as PW-12. On

 06.04.2002 he was posted in CBCID, Sector Meerut as Inspector.

 The investigation was assigned to him on 06.04.2002 but he also

 did not carry out any investigation in this case. 17. Deputy S.P. Yogender Singh was examined as PW-13. On

 30.04.2002 the investigation was assigned to him. During

 investigation he visited Masuri police station, contacted Manoj,

 Kundan, Ram Karan, Pappu, Kiran, SI Mewa Lal Bharti, Ct. Nepal

 Singh, HC Pratap Singh made inquiries from them and recorded

 their statements u/s 161 Cr.PC. He also recorded the statement of

 Sh. Anand Kumar Dy. Jailor Mujjafar Nagar u/s 161 Cr.P.C on

 27.05.2002 and of Yasin s/o Sh. Abdul Hamid. On 11.06.2002 he

 recorded statement of one Yogesh Kumar. On 12.06.2002 he

 recorded the statement of Sh. R.K. Juneja. Thereafter, he was

 transferred. During cross-examination he deposed that he came FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 14 of 34 to know that accused Ashok, Shobha Ram and Yogesh were

 lodged in district jail Mujjafar Nagar. He further deposed that he is

 not sure if they were detained in jail from the period from

 14.06.1998 to 23.06.1998. He verified this fact from the jail

 officials of Mujjafar Nagar. He did not inquire from the

 complainant about this fact. Lateron an application for recalling

 PW-13 was moved by the prosecution that was allowed and

 Sh. Yogender Singh was recalled. He deposed that on 27.05.2002

 he visited District Jail Mujjafar Nagar and made inquiries from

 Superindent Jail Mujjafar Nagar about the record of Ashok,

 Shobha Ram and Yogesh. He made a written request in this

 regard copy of which is proved as Ex.PW13/X-1, he collected the

 photocopies of the record of persons lodged in the Mujjafar Nagar

 Jail i.e. history tickets of Ashok, Yogesh and Shobha the same are

 Ex.PW13/X-2, X-3 and X-4, he also collected the attested copies

 of the entries and release register maintained in Mujjafar Nagar

 Jail. In this register at sl.no.3048 name of Yogesh s/o Jai Parkash

 is entered. At sl. no.3049 name of Ashok S/o Jai Parkash is

 entered and at sl. no.3050 name of Shobha Ram s/o Jai Parkash

 is entered the entry date is 14.06.1998 and the release date of

 Yogesh is of 23.06.1998 and of remaining two is 27.06.1998. The

 certified copy is Ex.PW13/X5 running into 4 pages. He also made

 inquiries in the court of Ld. SDM but no file was found. During FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 15 of 34 cross-examination he stated that SI Shyam Bir filed the kalandra

 u/s 107/151 Cr.P.C in the court of SDM. This witness did not make

 any inquiry from SI Shyam Bir till the investigation remained with

 him. He did not get the thumb impression of accused persons

 tallied with the same with the thumb impression available in the jail

 record. After he prima facie reached the conclusion that it is a

 concocted story and a case of fake arrest. This witness

 specifically stated, "I am not sure that the case of arrest of

 accused Ashok, Yogesh and Shobha u/s 107/151 Cr.PC at PS: He admitted that on the next day when driver went to bring the

 vehicle Ashok was took the vehicle saying that his father and

 brother have been murdered and he had to go to trans Hindon and

 he would return the vehicle lateron. He admitted that his brother

 gave complaint at Mayur Vihar and Trilok Puri regarding missing of

 aforesaid vehicle. During cross-examination he stated that he

 does not know Ashok he has never seen his house or any person

 by the name of Ashok. 21. Ct. Omvrat was examined as PW-17. On the directions of

 Sh. V.K. Singh he removed the dead bodies from Kuria Garhi to

 mortuary near Hindon river. He deposited the dead bodies in the

 mortuary. Post mortem was conducted and thereafter dead bodies

 were handed over to the relatives. 22. Sh. Ramesh was examined as PW-18. In his presence the

 proceedings of attachment of the properties of accused persons

 was carried out by the police. FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 17 of 34 23. Sh. Irfan Tyagi was examined as PW-19. He deposed that

 he was inquired by the police regarding residence of Ashraf and

 Asif and he stated that they do not reside in the locality. During

 cross-examination he stated that population of ward No.5 Swar

 panchayat is approximately about 25,000 to 30,000. There are

 land owner and tenants as well. He stated that according to his

 knowledge there was no owner or tenant in the aforesaid ward

 with the name of Ashraf and Asif. He stated that no body informs

 him while keeping a tenant. He stated that he cannot say if there

 was any tenant by the name of Ashraf and Asif. 24. Sh. Manoj was examined as PW-20. He identified his

 signatures on the Panchama Ex.PW14/A regarding the sealing of

 the dead bodies of Charan Singh and Rajbir. 25. Kundan was examined as PW-21 he is also a witness to the

 panchnama of dead bodies. 26. Ram Karan was also examined as PW-22. He is also a

 witness to panchanama of dead body. 27. Pappu was examined as PW-23. He is a witness to

 panchanam of dead body of his brother Mukesh. The witness was

 not able to identify his signature on the panchnama. He was

 declared hostile but still he was not able to identify his signatures. 28. Ct. Subahsh Chand Tyagi was examined as PW-24. He

 deposed that on 14.06.1998 he along with SI Shyam Bir Singh FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 18 of 34 was present at the gate of police station Chappar, Mujjafar Nagar

 for checking the vehicles. They came to know that there is a

 gathering of persons in front of Nilu barber. He along with SI

 Shyam Bir Singh reached there. They came to know that Asif and

 Ashraf both residents of Tyagi Lok, Sarvat, Mujjafar Nagar and

 Yogesh, Shobha Ram and Ashok were altercating with each other.

 Asif and Ashraf were demanding an amount of Rs.9,000/- with

 respect to the sale of buffalow but Yogesh, Shobha Ram and

 Ashok were abusing them and saying that they had already made

 the payment. This witness along with SI Shyam Bir Singh tried to

 pacify them but of no avail. Both the parties were becoming

 aggressive and disturbing the peace and as well as law and order.

 Having found on other option they were arrested at about 9:30 am

 u/s 151/107/116 Cr.PC and were brought to the police station. DD

 No.15 was recorded. He proved the copy of the DD No.15 as

 Ex.PW24/A. He identified accused Shobha Ram and accused

 Yogesh. No question was put to this witness during cross

 examination . 29. SI Shyam Bir Singh was examined as PW-25. He also

 corroborated the testimony of PW-24. He also identified accused

 Yogesh and Shobha Ram. During cross-examination he stated

 that accused Yogesh and Shobha Ram were sent to jail along with

 two other persons on 14.06.1998. FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 19 of 34 30. Sh. Nathu Ram was examined as PW-26. He wrote the

 complaint of Sh. Tek Chand in verbatim which was addressed to

 SHO PS:Masuri Janpath, Ghaziabad. He stated that the

 complaint exhibit K is in his handwriting and he also identified his

 signatures at point X and of Tek Chand at point Y. Nothing

 material came on record during his cross-examination. Thereafter

 prosecution evidence was closed and the statements of accused

 persons were recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. 31. Prosecution evidence was closed. Statement of accused

 persons were recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C wherein they denied the

 entire evidence. Shobha and Yogesh claimed that they were

 lodged in Ghaziabad Jail at the relevant time. Accused persons

 wished to lead evidence in their defence and examined Anand

 Kumar Shukla, Dy. JaIlor, Sitapur as DW-1. He proved the

 document Ex.PW1/A, the certified copy which he issued to the IO

 during investigation. He stated that this documents was prepared

 by him from the original. According to this document the accused

 persons were sent to Jail on 14.06.1998. he also proved the

 documents Ex.PW13/X5 according to these documents Ashok S/o

 Sh. Jai Prakash, Yogesh S/o sh. Jai Prakash and Shoba Ram S/o

 Sh. Jai Prakash all residents of Village Kuria Garhi, PS: Masuri

 Distt. Ghaziabad were taken in Jail on 14.06.1998 and entries in

 this regard were made at sl.no.3049, 3048 and 3050 respectively. FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 20 of 34 During cross-examination he stated that the original documents

 were not prepared in his presence and the thumb impression were

 not taken in his presence. 32. Mijazi Lal, District Jailor, Mujaffar Nagar Jail was examined

 as DW-2. He proved the original custody warrants, release

 warrants and personal bonds of accused Yogesh, Ashok and

 Shobha Ram as Ex.DW2/A to Ex.DW2/H. 33. Retired Jailor Jaswant Singh was examined as DW-3. He

 identified the handwriting of Dy. Jailor Sh. Satender Kumar on

 Ex.DW1/A and Ex.PW13/X5. According to him the accused

 persons were taken in jail on 14.06.1998. The prisoners at

 sl.no.3048, 3050 were released on 26.06.1998. The prisoner at

 sl.no.3049 was released on 23.06.1998. He also obtained

 signatures of prisoners on the personal bond and attested the

 personal bond being jailor and identified his signatures on

 Ex.DW2/A to Ex.DW2/H. 34. The defence also moved application u/s 311 Cr.PC to

 summon Sh. Azad Kumar, Deputy Jailor from Sitapur. On

 14.10.2014 application was allowed but thereafter the defence

 closed the evidence without examining that witness as he could

 not be served. Thereafter, the case was fixed for arguments. 35. I have heard the Ld. Addl. PP for the State, Ld. Counsel for

 complainant side, Ld. Defence counsel and perused the record. FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 21 of 34 36. Ld. APP for the State submitted that the present case is

 based upon the ocular evidence. On 16.06.1998 three persons

 were murdered at village Kuria Garhi, Masuri, Ghaziabad. At the

 relevant time i.e. at about 6 am Tek Chand eye witness PW-1

 along with his brothers Charan Singh (deceased),

 Rajbir(deceased) and other person namely Mukesh (deceased)

 Kiran Anil, Lillu and Inderjeet (PW-5) were sitting on the cots in the

 Gher in village Kuria Garhi and were writing on the marriage cards

 for invitation as daughter of Charan Singh was going to be

 marriaged on 18.06.1998 as has come in the testimony of

 Inderjeet. Ld. APP submitted that at that time accused persons

 along with 2 other persons came in Maruti Car one of which was

 bearing registration No.DL7C4956. The accused persons were

 having this mis conception that Tek Chand and his brothers were

 assisting the murders of their father i.e. Jai Parkash. Tek Chand

 and his brothers tried their best to tell them that they are not doing

 so and that they have also no intention to do so but they started

 firing indiscriminately. Charan Singh and Rajbir sustained two

 bullet injuries each and died on the spot. The other persons

 started fleeing. In the process Kiran also sustained injury on his

 arm. Mukesh in the process hit on the car of accused persons

 with danda. Accused persons fired at him and he sustained 3

 bullet injuries and died. Ld. APP submitted that post mortem has FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 22 of 34 been proved on record as Ex.PW2/क-2, क-3, & क-4. The doctor

 who conducted the post mortem was examined as PW-2. Doctor

 has clearly opined that all the 3 persons Rajbir, Charan Singh and

 Mukesh died due to shock and hemorrhagic due to fire arm

 injuries. 37. The eye witness complainant Tek Chand was examined as

 PW-1. He has fully supported the prosecution case and also

 identified all the accused persons. It is pertinent to mention here

 that there was no rivalry between accused persons and deceased

 instead of they stood surety for them in other cases and they are

 also related to each other and hence there are no chance of wrong

 identification and it was also day time with clear visibility. The

 accused persons are grand sons of real uncle of complainant and

 hence, there is no possibility of false implication of the accused

 persons being close relative. Ld. APP submitted that PW-1 not

 only identified them but also stated that they fired on them

 indiscriminately and caused death of Rajbir and Charan Singh and

 also of Mukesh Nut, because Mukesh Nut while fleeing from the

 spot and hit Maruti Car with danda and only thereafter they fired

 on him. 38. Ld. APP submitted that the other eye witness Inderjeet has

 been examined as PW-5. He has also fully corroborated the

 testimony of PW-1. He identified all the accused persons and FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 23 of 34 specifically stated that all the accused persons fired

 indiscriminately and caused death of Rajbir, Charan Singh and

 Mukesh. Ld. APP submitted that as both the witnesses have stood

 to the test of cross-examination, There is no major contradictions

 in their testimony. Their testimonies are corroborated by scientific

 evidence i.e. post mortem reports Ex.PW2/क-2, क-3 & क-4.

 According to these post mortem reports the deceased died due to

 fire arm injuries as deposed by PW-1 & PW-5. Ld. Addl. PP

 submitted that prosecution has discharged its onus & proved

 beyond doubt the guilt of accused person that they formed the

 unlawful assembly, they were armed with weapons, caused

 murder of Rajbir, Charan Singh & Mukesh nut and also extended

 threats. It is prayed that they all be held guilty. 39. Ld. Defence counsel submitted that in this case accused

 Ashok, Yogesh and Shobha Ram were not present at the spot and

 infact the three were lodged in the jail. This fact is also deposed

 by the prosecution witness themselves i.e. PW-13 Deputy S.P. Sh.

 Yogwender Singh who stated that he verified from the jail official of

 Mujjafar Nagar Jail that accused Ashok ,Shobha and Yogesh were

 lodged in Mujjafar Nagar Jail and he collected the record of

 persons lodged in the Mujjafar Nagar Jail. History tickets of

 accused Yogesh, Shobha and Ashok proved as Ex.PW13/H to

 ExPW13/X3 and Ex.PW13/X4. According to these documents FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 24 of 34 accused Yogesh was taken in Mujjafar Nagar Jail against ticket

 No.3048 dt. 14.06.1998 and was released on 26.06.1998.

 Accused Ashok was taken in Jail against entry No.3049 on

 14.06.1998 and was released on 23.06.1998. Accused Shobha

 Ram was taken in Jail against entry at sl. no.3050 on 14.06.1998

 and was released from jail on 26.06.1998. Ld. Counsel submits

 that as they were in judicial custody on 16.06.1998 therefore it is

 not possible that they have committed the offence. This fact also

 reflects that the witness have deposed falsely with respect to

 them. The fact that they were apprehended u/s 107 / 151 Cr.P.C is

 further supported testimony of PW-24 and PW-25. PW-24 is Ct.

 Subhash Chand, PW-24 proved the DD No.15 copy of which is

 Ex.PW24/A. DD is dt.14.06.1998 this witness has also identified

 accused Shobha Ram and Yogesh present in the court. There is

 no cross examination by the prosecution in this regard and the

 defence has also not put any question to him. 40. SI Shyambir also deposed on the same lines that accused

 Yogesh Shobha Ram and Ashok were arrested by him on

 14.06.1998 along with two other persons who were sent to Jail but

 he does not know about their date of release. This witness has

 also identified accused Yogesh and Shobha Ram. Ld. Counsel

 submits that besides that defence has examined retired Dy. Jailor

 Sh. Jaswant Singh as DW-3 and he proved the warrants and the FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 25 of 34 personal bond of accused persons according to which they were

 released on 26.06.1998 and 23.06.1998. The record clearly

 shows that they were taken in on 14.06.1998. Under the

 circumstances it is clear that the witnesses have deposed falsely

 and their testimony are doubtful. Ld. Defence counsel submitted

 that there is no corroboration to their testimonies. The other

 witnesses namely Lillu, injured Kiran and Anil had not been

 examined by the prosecution which again creates doubt about the

 truthfulness of the story. Ld. Counsel submits that there is no

 substantial evidence to prove the case in this regard such as

 recovery of weapon of offence or any other evidence. 41. Ld. Counsel submitted that under the circumstances benefit

 be given to accused persons and they be acquitted. 42. Ld. APP submitted that in the present case so far as plea of

 alibi is concerned that has not been established. The documents

 which has been placed on record does not prove the plea of alibi

 has to be proved beyond doubt wherever it is taken. 43. Ld. APP submits that it has come in the testimony of PW-13

 that the plea of alibi taken is wrong as the other person with whom

 allegedly the incident had taken place never existed therefore he

 was of the opinion infact no such incident has ever taken place

 and they were not sent to J/C. Ld. APP submits that it shows that

 the plea of alibi is not tenable. Ld. APP submits that maxim falsus FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 26 of 34 in UNO falsus in omnibus is not applicable in India and is not a

 sound rule of law and not a rule of practice. Ld. APP relied upon

 the judgment cited as Sunil Kumar Sambhudayal Gupta v. State

 of Maharashtra (SC), 2011 CrLJ 705. In this case the Supreme

 Court held that: 43.1 Ld. APP also relied upon the Judgment cited as Prem
 Singh & Ors. v. State of Haryana , (2009) 14 SCC 494, wherein
 the Supreme Court clearly held as under : 43.2 Ld. APP also relied upon the judgment cited as Moniruddin
 Ahmed @ Lalu Dealer v. State of West Bengal (SC ), 2010 CrLJ
 3448, wherein the Supreme Court held that: 43.3 Ld. APP also relied upon the Judgment cited as Ram Bali v.
 State of U.P., (SC) 2004 CrLJ 2490 wherein the Supreme Court
 has held that: 44. Ld. APP submits that in view of settled law and particularly

 when witnesses are closely related to each other and they are

 also related to the accused persons there is no chance of any

 false implication and prayed that reliance be placed on their

 testimony and accused persons be held guilty. 45. After hearing the arguments and going through the record I

 found that there are two witnesses i.e. PW-1 and PW-5 according

 to them all the five accused along with two more accused came

 there in two Maruti cars. They suspected that PW-1 and his

 brothers were supporting and assisting the murders of their father.

 Though, Tek Chand and his brothers tried to explain that they are

 not supporting them but they did not give any heed and fired

 indiscriminately. It has been found during investigation and as

 deposed by PW-24 and PW-25 that accused Ashok, Yogesh and

 Shobha Ram were arrested in DD No.15 dt. 14.06.1998 in case FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 28 of 34 u/s 107/15/161 Cr.PC and sere sent to Mujjafar Nagar Jail. The

 Jail record has been placed on record by PW-13 and also by

 defence witnesses particularly DW-3 the then Jailor of Mujjafar

 Nagar Jail. According to them accused Ashok, Shobha Ram and

 Yogesh were lodged in the jail on 14.06.1998. Accused Ashok

 was released on 23.06.1998 and other 2-3 released on

 26.06.1998. Yogesh and Shobha Ram have been identified by

 PW-24 and PW25 as the same persons who were arrested on

 14.6.1998. Ashok could not be identified as he was declared

 proclaimed offender and was not present in the court. From this it

 is clear that these two accused persons were not present at the

 spot. Though accused persons has also taken plea of alibi but this

 evidence has been brought on record by prosecution itself by

 examining PW-24 and PW-25 that accused Ashok, Shobha Ram

 and Yogesh were arrested in DD No.15 dt. 14.06.1998 PS: PW-13 himself stated that he verified from the Mujjafar Nagar Jail

 in this regard but he did not believe it. The reason given is that the FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 29 of 34 other 2 accused persons with whom allegedly accused Ashok,

 Yogesh and Shobha were not available at that address. But no

 such evidence has been brought on record that the persons with

 whom the accused had quarrel on 14.06.1998 were not residing at

 available address. Even otherwise this evidence is contradicting

 to the testimony of PW-25 who stated that he arrested that

 persons also. Keeping in view these facts and that accused

 persons has also taken plea of alibi and it is also case of

 prosecution that they were arrested on 14.06.1998 in DD No.15

 dated 14.06.1998 PS:Chhappar in my opinion so far as accused

 Yogesh and Shobha are concerned they were not present at the

 spot on 16.06.1998. It is also important to note that according to

 by PW-7 witnesses PW-1 and PW-5 told him that accused Ashok,

 Yogesh and Shobha hatched the conspiracy and pursuance to that

 conspiracy they have sent Rakesh and Rukmesh along with other

 six persons and they committed murder. PW-1 and PW-5 were

 confronted with these statement and they stated that they had not

 made any such statement. Though PW-7 stated that this statement

 was given by them. This again shows that witnesses have

 improved upon their statement. The Supreme Court in case

 Bhagwan Dass v State of Haryana, AIR 1966 SC 2928 has held

 that: The supreme Court did not rely upon the testimony of the
 witness as the witness made improvement on most vital
 aspect which made presence of the accused at place of
 incident doubtful, as in the present case. 46. In this case Kiran also sustained injury with fire arm as

 deposed by PW-1 & PW-5 but there is no record that Kiran

 sustained injury. There is no medical evidence on record in this

 regard. There are two more eye witnesses Anil and Lillu but

 prosecution has not examined Lillu, Anil and Kiran for the reasons

 best known to them. There is no recovery of weapon of offence to

 link the accused persons with the commission of offence i.e. FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 31 of 34 bullets recovered from bodies of deceased were fired from fire

 arm. In the absence of any such evidence the only evidence

 available on record is testimony of PW-1 and PW-5. It has come

 on record that they have deposed falsely in respect of accused

 Ashok, Shobha Ram and Yogesh. The other eye witnesses i.e.

 injured Kiran, Lillu and Anil have not been examined which again

 creates doubt about the truthfulness of the story of the

 prosecution. It is important to note here that Kiran allegdly

 sustained fire arm injury in the incident, therefore, his examination

 was all the more important. The other two persons namely Lillu &

 Anil were also sitting on the cots along with PW-1, PW-5 & the

 deceased therefore they were also very important witness. No

 doubt it is not the quantity of evidence which matters but it is the

 quality. But in the present case where prosecution itself establish

 that PW-1 & PW-5 have deposed falsely about presence of

 Yogesh and Shobha on the spot and their testimony becomes

 doubtful the prosecution should have examined the other

 witnesses also namely Lillu, Kiran & Anil. Under the

 circumstances and keeping in view these facts in my opinion it will

 not be safe to rely upon the testimony of these two witnesses and

 convict the accused persons. Therefore, giving the benefit of

 doubt I acquit accused persons for the offence u/s 147 / 148 / 302 IPC r/w section 149 / 452 and 506 IPC. Their bail bonds are FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 32 of 34 accepted U/s 437 (A) IPC for the period of six months. File be

 consigned to record room. File/case be revived as and when

 accused Ashok is apprehended/arrested. Present: Sh. Virender Singh, Addl. PP for the State. Accused Ashok is already P.O.

 Remaining four accused produced from J/C from Dhasna

 Jail. Vide separate Judgment announced today accused persons

 Yogesh, Shobha Ram, Rakesh and Rukmesh are acquitted for the

 offence u/s 147 / 148 / 302 IPC r/w section 149 / 452 and 506 IPC. The

 accused persons are directed to furnish Personal bond and surety

 bond in the sum of Rs.10,000/- each for a period of six months U/s

 437 (A) IPC . Bail bonds of all four accused persons furnished,

 accepted. File be consigned to record room. File/case be revived

 as and when accused Ashok Kumar(P.O) is apprehended/

 arrested. (VIRENDER KUMAR BANSAL)
 ASJ/ FTC (WEST)
 TIS HAZARI, DELHI FIR No:157/98 State Vs. Ashok etc. Page 34 of 34