conspired with the other accused to murder Aladi Aruna.
 This Court in Vijayan v. State of Kerala , 1999 (1) JCC
 177: 1999 (3) SCC 54 has held that to punish a person
 for criminal conspiracy under Section 120B of IPC, it is
 necessary to establish that there was an agreement
 between the parties for doing an unlawful act. Therefore,
 it is imperative to see whether there had been any such
 agreement between the appellant and co-accused to
 murder Aladi Aruna, which could be established by
 producing reliable evidence. Para 28. We find that these events, even when taken
 together, cannot prove a charge of conspiracy so far the
 appellant is concerned. In State through
 Superintendent of Police, CBI/SIT v. Nalini & others
 (1999) 5 SCC 253 it was held that: - "583...........................................
 (1)............Offence of criminal conspiracy is an
 exception to the general law where intent alone does not
 consitute crime. It is intention to commit crime and
 joining hands with persons having the same intention.
 Not only the intention but there has to be agreement to
 carry out the object of the intention, which is an offence.
 The question for consideration in a case is did all the
 accused have the intention and did they agree that the
 crime be committed. It would not be enough for the
 offence of conspiracy when some of the accused merely
 entertained a wish, howsoever horrendous it may be,
 that offence be committed................. In this instance, mere circumstantial evidence to prove
 the involvement of the appellant is not sufficient to meet
 the requirements of criminal conspiracy under Section
 120A of the IPC. A meeting of minds to form a criminal
 conspiracy has to be proved by placing substantial
 evidence and the Respondent has not adduced any
 evidence which underlines the same. (emphasis supplied) 35. In the light of above settled proposition of law, evidence led
by the prosecution will be analyzed to ascertain as to whether there are
sufficient evidence to rope the accused Rashid and Faraha Anwar in the
alleged offence with the aid of Section 120B of the IPC or not. 36. In this regard the deposition of PW4 and PW14 are relevant.
PW4 in his examination-in-chief deposed that on December 15, 2009,
accused Rahis had made a supplementary disclosure statement, which
is exhibited as Ex. PW4/S wherein he had disclosed the name of
accused Rashid. He further deposed that accused Rahis had also led the
police party to the house of Rashid and memo was prepared. PW14

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 25 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

deposed that on December 14, 2009 accused Rahis had made a
supplementary disclosure statement, which is already exhibited as Ex.
PW4/S and thereafter raid was conducted to arrest co-accused Rashid,
Zakir but they could not be apprehended. 37. From the deposition of said two witnesses, it is evident that
the mere evidence against accused Rashid is that his name was
surfaced during the interrogation of the accused Rahis. Needless to say
that pursuant to alleged disclosure statement neither Rashid was
apprehended nor any incriminating article was recovered from him. It is
well settled law that the disclosure statement made to the police officer
during interrogation has no evidentiary value and the same is hit by Section 25 of Indian Evidence Act. Thus, the deposition of PW4 and
PW14 to the extent that accused Rahis had disclosed the name of
Rashid in his supplementary disclosure statement has no evidentiary
value as the same is hit by Section 25 of Indian Evidence Act. 38. Prosecution version is that accused Rashid, Rahis and
Jaspal had hatched a criminal conspiracy to print the counterfeit currency
notes and accused Rashid had arranged premises of his sister for that
purpose. But during the trial, prosecution has failed to adduce any
evidence in this regard. Even investigating officer did not deem it
appropriate to analyse the calls detail of mobile phones of the said
accused persons. Had investigating officer examined their calls detail,
prosecution would be in a better position to establish intimacy between
them. But investigating officer preferred to rely upon inadmissible
evidence i.e. disclosure statement of accused persons. In view of the
above, I am of the view that there are not sufficient evidence to rope the
accused Rashid in the alleged conspiracy with the aid of Section 120B

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 26 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others IPC . 39. Now turing to the issue as to whether there is any evidence
against accused Faraha Anwar to rope her in the offence with the aid of Section 120B of IPC. 40. The allegations against accused Faraha Anwar are that she
had given a portion of her premises to the accused Rahis and Jaspal to
print counterfeit currency notes and she was present in the premises at
the time when police had conducted raid but she slipped away from the
premises after seeing the police party. In order to prove her ownership,
prosecution has proved the agreement to sell in her favour through PW9
Sachin Kumar, clerk of Sub-Registrar's office. Mere fact that she was the
owner of the said building is not sufficient, in the absence of any other
evidence, to establish that she was part of the conspiracy. PW14 in his
examination-in-chief deposed that when they entered the house, one
lady had slipped away from the house. Except that there is no other
evidence against the accused Faraha. Even PW14 in his entire
deposition nowhere deposed that the lady who had slipped away after
seeing the police party was accused Faraha Anwar. PW12 in his
deposition deposed that no other person met in the premises except
accused Jaspal whereas PW4 in his cross-examination deposed that he
had seen two girls in another room. Thus, there is material contradiction
among the testimony of witnesses examined by the prosecution. 41. From the testimony of above witnesses, I am of the opinion
that there is no infinitesimal evidence against the accused Faraha Anwar
to rope her in the offence with the aid of Section 120B of the IPC. 42. Now coming to the next question as to whether the alleged
recovery of 20 counterfeit currency notes from accused Rashid is reliable
or not? 43. Prosecution case is that on March 11, 2010 PW12 ASI
Devender had received the secret information about accused Rashid and
Faraha Anwar. Accordingly, a team was constituted and raid was
conducted. As per prosecution version, 20 counterfeit currency notes
were recovered from the possession of the accused Rashid. In order to
prove the alleged recovery, prosecution has relied upon the testimony of
PW11 SI Jaishree and PW12 ASI Devender Parsad. 44. Perusal of their deposition revealed that raiding party was
comprising of as many as five police officials but the investigating officer
did not deem it appropriate either to record the statement of any other
official except PW11 or to cite them as a witness on the memos allegedly
prepared at the time of arrest. As usual this time also, investigators failed
to persuade any public person to join the raiding party. Nor any effort was
made to join independent witness from the government offices located
near the office of Special Cell. Thus, prosecution preferred to rely upon
the deposition of above two police officials. 45. As per prosecution version, after arrest accused Rashid had
made the disclosure statement Ex. PW11/B wherein he disclosed that he
had kept the counterfeit currency notes in his bag which he was carrying.
Pursuant to that disclosure statement, 20 counterfeit currency notes were
recovered from the said bag. On the basis of this story, learned Additional
Public Prosecution contended that the said recovery is admissible under

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 28 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others Section 27 of Indian Evidence Act. 46. PW11 in her examination-in-chief deposed that ASI
Devender informed the accused Rashid that he was wanted in the
present case as non-bailable warrants had already been issued against
him. Thereafter, on search 20 currency notes of Rs.500/- each were
recovered from brown colour raxin bag. The said notes were fake as
words 'RDI' were written on the water mark. The said notes were seized.
Thereafter, investigating officer recorded the disclosure statement of
accused Rashid. Thereafter, accused was arrested and his personal
search memo was prepared. Thus, as per her deposition, the alleged
recovery was affected prior to recording of his disclosure statement, thus,
the recovery is not admissible under Section 27 of Indian Evidence Act.
However, in her cross-examination, she gave a different version by
deposing that in the instant case, they recorded the disclosure statement
of accused first as non-bailable warrants were pending against him. But
she admitted that generally, they prepared the arrest memo, then
personal search memo and thereafter disclosure statement. She further
deposed that accused Rashid was arrested at about 12:00 noon and his
personal search was taken at about 12:15 pm. But deposed that she did
not know whether her disclosure statement was recorded prior to 12.30
pm or thereafter. On the one hand, she deposed that the disclosure
statement was recorded prior to preparing the arrest memo but on the
other hand deposed that she did not know whether his disclosure was
recorded prior to 12.30 pm or not. This shows that PW11 is not aware
when the alleged recovery was affected from the accused Rashid. 47. PW12 deposed that as per general practice, they first
prepared the arrest memo, then disclosure statement and then personal

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 29 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

search. He further deposed that Rashid was arrested at 12:00 noon, his
disclosure was recovered between 12.15 pm to 12.30 pm and thereafter
his personal search memo was prepared. He further deposed that he did
not aware whether as per PPR investigating officer is supposed to take
the personal search soon after the arrest of the accused or not. This only
shows the level of capability of the investigator. Now question arises what
is the provision under the Punjab Police Rules in this regard. Rule 26.3
deals with the search of persons under arrest and relevant portion of the
same is reproduced as under: (emphasis supplied)

 Thus, it becomes crystal clear that after arresting the
accused, first thing, which is to be done is to thoroughly search the
accused. Thus, the testimony of PW12 to the extent that as per practice
investigating officer first prepared the arrest memo, thereafter disclosure
statement and then took the personal search is not trustworthy and the
same has been made to bring the alleged recovery under the purview of Section 27 of Indian Evidence Act. 48. Now question arises as to why both the witnesses are
harping to state that the alleged recovery was affected pursuant to
disclosure statement? In this regard, the personal search memo of
accused Rashid Ex. PW11/F is relevant. In the said memo, the alleged
bag had been shown as recovered during the personal search, which
was found containing some old clothes of accused Rashid. If the

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 30 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

personal search was taken in terms of rule 26.3 of PPR, it means that the
alleged counterfeit currency notes were not in the bag when the personal
search was taken, thus the question of producing of the said notes by the
accused pursuant to his disclosure statement does not arise. 49. Look the matter from different angle, it is admitted case of
the prosecution that non-bailable warrants were pending against the
accused Rashid. It is also admitted case of the prosecution that accused
Rashid was apprehended at 10.30 am at the instance of ubiquitous
secret informer. Both the above witnesses deposed that accused was
arrested at 12:00 noon, thereafter, his disclosure statement was recorded
and then recovery was affected. It means the seizure memo etc. were
also prepared after the recovery. I am unable to understand what the
police officials were doing with the accused persons between 10.30 am
to 12:00 noon. This further casts a doubt over the alleged recovery. 50. Further, it admitted case of the prosecution that accused
Rahis and Jaspal were arrested on December 12, 2009 and they had
disclosed the name of accused Rashid. It is also admitted case of the
prosecution that since then accused Rashid was absconding. It is also
admitted case of prosecution that accused Rashid was arrested on
March 11, 2010. Non-bailable warrants were pending against the
accused. Police officials of Special Cell were behind him. Knowing all
these facts, it is difficult to believe that any person would keep counterfeit
currency notes with him. On the converse, he would try to destroy the
same to save himself. 51. In support of his contention, learned defence counsel relied

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 31 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

upon the judgment Raj Kumar v. The State 2011 (4) JCC 2818 wherein
Court also refused to rely upon the recovery which was allegedly
produced by the accused from his pocket despite the fact that during the
personal search no incriminating article was recovered. The relevant
portion is reproduced as under: 52. Taking into account the above discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that the testimony of PW11 and PW12 is not sufficient
to prove that the alleged 20 counterfeit currency notes were recovered
from the possession of accused Rashid. Contentions relating to accused Ashraf: 53. Counsel appearing for the accused vigorously contended
that there is no admissible evidence to establish that accused had
hatched any criminal conspiracy with the accused Rahis & Jaspal. It was
submitted that accused had been shown arrested from H.No. 769 Gali
No.20 Jafrabad Delhi whereas accused had no concern with the said
house. It was submitted that accused was arrested from H.No. D-23
Jafrabad, Delhi and DW1 has proved this fact. It was submitted that as
per prosecution version 40 counterfeit currency notes were recovered
from the possession of the accused, it was contended that it is highly
unbelievable that any person would sleep in his house after keeping
counterfeit currency notes in his pocket. 54. Per contra, learned Additional Public Prosecutor opposed
the said contentions by arguing that no reliance should be placed on the
deposition of DW1 as he is the close relative of the accused. It was
further submitted that there is no reason to disbelieve the deposition of
police official witnesses. It was further submitted that accused Ashraf was
arrested on the basis of disclosure statement of accused Rahis, thus it is
established that accused was involved in the conspiracy with Rahis and
Jaspal. 55. Police had arrested the accused Ashraf as his name was
surfaced during the disclosure statement of Rahis, who made disclosure
statement twice which are exhibited as Ex. PW4/E and Ex. PW4/S.
Perusal of the said disclosure statement reveals that accused Rahis had
hatched the criminal conspiracy with accused Jaspal and Rashid to print
the counterfeit currency notes. In his disclosure statement, he nowhere
disclosed that accused Ashraf was also party to the said conspiracy. In
his disclosure statement Ex. PW4/E, accused Rahis disclosed that he
had given counterfeit currency notes worth of ` 1.50 lac from time to
time. He did not disclose that he had given the said currency notes to
Ashraf for circulating the counterfeit currency notes in the market. From
his disclosure statement it is not clear what was understanding between
them. If Ashraf's job was to circulate the said currency notes in the
market, it means that Ashraf must have returned the genuine currency
notes to Rahis against the said counterfeit currency notes, but Rahis had
not disclosed anything about this. Needless to say that the said
disclosure statement is not admissible in evidence as same is hit by section 25 of Indian Evidence Act. However, a recovery of distinct fact is
admissible in terms of Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act. 56. Now coming to the evidence led by the prosecution. In this
regard, the testimony of PW4, PW12 and PW14 are relevant. PW4 in his
examination-in-chief deposed that Rahis had made a disclosure
statement about Ashraf stating that he had given fake currency notes to
Ashraf. Similarly, PW12 deposed that Rahis had disclosed about Ashraf
that counterfeit currency notes could be recovered from him. PW14
deposed that accused Rahis led the police party to the house of Ashraf
and at his pointing out Ashraf was apprehended and interrogated. Thus,
it is evident that none of the above witnesses deposed that Rahis had
even disclosed to them that he had hatched the criminal conspiracy with
Ashraf to print the counterfeit currency notes. Nor he deposed that he
had assigned the job of circulating the fake currency notes to accused
Ashraf. From their deposition at the most it proves that accused Rahis
had knowledge that some counterfeit currency notes were also in the
possession of accused Ashraf. As already discussed that investigating
officer even did not deem it appropriate to analysis the calls detail of the
accused persons to ascertain that there was any interaction between
them. In the absence of any cogent evidence, I am of the opinion that
prosecution has failed to establish that accused Ashraf was part of the
alleged conspiracy. 57. Now coming to the next limb of contentions as to whether
there are sufficient evidence to prove the alleged recovery from accused
Ashraf. 58. Prosecution case is that accused Rahis had led the police
party to the house of accused Ashraf, thus they apprehended the
accused Ashraf at the instance of Rahis and on search 20 counterfeit
currency notes were recovered from his right pocket and 20 counterfeit

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 34 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

notes from his left pocket of his pant. PW4 deposed that they reached
the house of Ashraf at about 3.30 am whereas PW12 deposed that they
reached at about 4.00 am. PW4 deposed that they stayed there till 5.30
am whereas PW12 deposed that they remained there till 5.00 am. PW4
deposed that he did not recollect whether I.O. had made any effort to join
any person from the occupants of other rooms in the investigation. But
deposed that IO had rung the door bell of some houses but none had
responded. He further deposed that he did not remember whether IO had
made any effort to join any person from nearby houses. Thus, from his
deposition it can be culled out that PW4 is not sure whether IO had made
any effort to join any person public at the time of alleged recovery from
accused Ashraf. However, PW14 in his cross-examination deposed that
he had made efforts to call other occupants of the building to join
investigation but none came forward. But deposed that he did not
remember whether he had mentioned this fact in his case diary or not.
He sought permission to see the case diary of particular date, thereafter,
deposed that he had not mentioned in his case diary. If he had made
efforts to join public persons, he should have mentioned the same in the
case diary. He further admitted that the case-diary does not sign by any
senior officer. He further admitted there are 16 leafs which are
photocopies whereas other leafs are carbon copies. He further admitted
that he had not shown his case-diary to his inspector R.S. Sherawat.
From his testimony, it is culled out that he had not made any effort to join
any public independent witness to join the investigation. 59. It is admitted case of the prosecution that police had
apprehended the accused Ashraf between 3.30 am to 4.00 am. It means
when police reached the house of Ashraf, he must be sleeping. If it was
so, it is highly improbable that he would be carrying 40 counterfeit

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 35 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

currency notes in both the pockets of his pant. When the currency notes
were produced in the Court, the same were not only new but having no
folding marks. It is further improbable that twenty currency notes can be
kept in the pocket of pant without having any folding marks. 60. Prosecution case is that accused was arrested from H.No.
769, Gali No.20 Jafrabad, Delhi. But prosecution failed to establish what
was the status of accused; whether he was owner of the house; or he
was mere a tenant. In this regard, no evidence is adduced.
Consequently, there is no evidence in which capacity he was residing
there. Accused Ashraf in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C.
categorically stated that he was not arrested from the said house and
took the plea that he was lifted from D-23 New Jafrabad from the house
of his brother-in-law on December 11, 2009. To prove this fact, he has
examined DW1 Abid who categorically deposed that Ashraf was residing
with him at the said address and police had lifted him from his house on
December 11, 2009. He further deposed that accused Ashraf had his
driving license from the said address. However, he admitted that his
name is not mentioned in his ration card. Upon this, learned Additional
Public Prosecutor contended that the accused Ashraf was not residing at
the said address. No doubt, Ashraf name is not mentioned in the ration
card of DW1 but the question arises what document prosecution has
adduced to show that he was residing at H.No. 769. It is settled law that
the testimony of defence witness can not be rejected mere fact that he is
interested in the acquittal of accused. DW1 categorically deposed that
accused Ashraf had driving license from the said address and he had
brought the same. Moreover, investigating officer failed to collect any
evidence whatsoever that accused Ashraf was residing at H.No.769. In
view of the above, I am of the opinion that prosecution has even failed to

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 36 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

establish that accused had any connection with H.No. 769, Gali No.20,
Jafrabad from where he was allegedly arrested. 61. Pondering over the ongoing discussion, I am of the opinion
that prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of accused Ashraf
beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts. Contentions relating to accused Rahis and Jaspal: 62. Learned counsel appearing for the accused persons
vehemently contended that the story of the prosecution that PW14 had
received a secret information and pursuant to that secret information the
alleged raid was conducted is a fabricated story because as per
prosecution story accused persons were indulging in the activities of
counterfeit currency notes for the last 7-8 months, if it was so, why the
secret informer had not informed the Special Cell prior to that or if the
Special Cell had information, why they had not conducted the raid prior to
that. It was submitted that since no raid was conducted, no official vehicle
was used and they had concocted the false story of using their private
vehicles, but they had not produced any log book of the said vehicles. It
was further contended that in order to prove that accused had purchased
the printer from Kapil Sehgal, prosecution has relied upon the testimony
of PW1, Kapil Sehgal but it was argued that his testimony is not helpful to
establish that accused persons had visited his shop to buy the alleged
recovered printer. It was further submitted that prosecution version is that
PW14 had hired a tempo bearing registration no. DL-1LLL-3081 to
transport the case property from spot to the police station but no such
vehicle is in existence and this fact has been proved by the accused
during trial. It was further contended that there are material contradictions

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 37 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

between the deposition of witnesses examined by the prosecution
because some witness deposed the alleged recovery was affected from
first story whereas other witnesses deposed that it was affected from
ground floor. Similarly, some witnesses deposed that no person met at
123 Jhilmil Colony, Delhi whereas other witnesses deposed that two girls
were met whereas PW14 deposed that there was one lady but that
slipped away after seeing the police party. Similarly, some witnesses
deposed that after lodging the FIR HC Ram Gopal returned the spot
whereas some person deposed that he met in the police station. It was
submitted that no public witness was examined at the time of searching
the house, provisions of law not followed at the time of taking search of
the house. 63. On the other hand, learned Additional Public Prosecutor
refuted the said contentions by arguing that the contradictions pointed
out by learned defence counsel are minor in nature and not fatal to the
prosecution case. It was submitted that mere fact that investigating officer
had used private vehicles in raid does prove that the case is false. It was
further submitted that PW14 in deposition clarified that there is some
clerical mistake in mentioning the registration number of the tempo
through which the case property was transported. It was stated that the
deposition of PW1 establishes that accused Rahis had purchased the
printer in the fake name of Ashwani Kumar and PW1 has identified both
the accused persons. It was further stated that though efforts were made
to join independent witness at the time of taking search of the house, but
none came forward, thus, it can not be said that investigating officer had
not followed the provisions of law at the time of taking search of the
house. 64. Counsel appearing for both the parties have not cited any
case law in support of their contentions. Nor any question of law was
raised by either of them. 65. I heard rival submissions advanced by counsel for parties
and perused the record carefully and gave my thoughtful consideration to
their contentions. 66. It is admitted case of prosecution that PW14 had received
the secret information that accused Rahis and Jaspal were indulging in
the racket of printing of fake currency notes at Pratap Khand, Jhilmil
Colony, Delhi and they would come at Vivek Vihar in front of B Block,
Phase II to supply huge quantity of fake currency notes in the
denomination of ` 500 on motorcycle. But no question was put to the
prosecution witnesses when they appeared in the witness box. In other
words, defence has not challenged the said secret information. If,
accused persons had any doubt over the said information, they should
have challenged the same during the cross-examination of prosecution
witnesses. But accused persons did not provide any opportunity to the
prosecution witnesses to explain why they had not conducted raid prior to
December 12, 2009 when accused were involved in printing of
counterfeit currency notes for the last 7-8 months. In the absence of any
contrary evidence, I do not find any reason to disbelieve the deposition of
prosecution witnesses in this regard. 67. It is admitted case of the prosecution that during raid,
investigating officer had used private vehicles. As per the deposition of
PW14, one car belonged to him, which he was driving whereas another

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 39 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

car belonged to inspector Subhash Vats. Though generally, official
vehicle should be used at the time of conducting raid, yet if
circumstances warrant use of private vehicles, the same can be used
during raid. But the disturbing factor is that investigating officer even did
not deem it appropriate to prepare the temporary log book of the said
vehicles. Impartiality and transparency are the two vital elements of
investigation. Log book helps the Court to appreciate the deposition of
police officials. In the absence of log book of the vehicle, defence got an
opportunity to raise a finger over the deposition of witnesses examined
by the prosecution. To my mind, it was the paramount duty of the
investigating officer to maintain the log book of the vehicles used in the
raid, but he failed to prepare the same without any reasonable
explanation. 68. Prosecution case is that the case property was transported
to the police station of Special Cell in a Vikram Tempo bearing
registration no. DL-ILLL-3081 as mentioned in the receipt Ex. PW14/F.
During trial, accused had obtained information about the said tempo
under the Right to Information Act and found that no vehicle is registered
vide registration no. DL-ILLL-3081 and said information is exhibited as
Ex. PW14/D-1. During his cross-examination, PW14 made an attempt to
clarify by deposing that the registration of said tempo was DL-ILL-3081
and not DL-ILLL-3081. On the basis of said clarification, it was contended
by learned Additional Public Prosecutor that the it was a clerical mistake.
No doubt, it could be clerical mistake, but the question is what evidence
prosecution has produced to establish the said fact. Exhibit PW14/F was
prepared by PW14, thus, it was a documentary evidence. It is settled law
that documentary evidence prevails over the oral deposition. When
defence has placed a document obtained under RTI Act that no vehicle is

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 40 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

registered under the said registration number, onus was shifted upon the
prosecution to establish that either the said vehicle was in existence or it
was mere a clerical mistake by producing the driver/owner of the said
vehicle. Mere by saying that it was a clerical mistake, prosecution can not
be absolved from its onus. 69. Prosecution version is that accused Rahis had purchased
the printer from Kapil Sehgal. In this regard the deposition of PW1 is
relevant. PW1 in his examination-in-chief deposed that on December 15,
2009 police officials visited his shop along with accused Rahis and
Jaspal and after seeing them, he informed the police that he had sold a
laser printer make Canon-1180 and given this in writing on his letter
head, exhibited as Ex. PW1/A. He further disclosed that accused Rahis
had disclosed his name as Ashwani Kumar. He also produced the bill
book and the copy of relevant cash memo is exhibited as Ex. PW1/B. It is
admitted case of prosecution that the alleged cash memo was issued on
April 25, 2009 whereas police had visited his shop on December 15,
2009. In other words, he had seen the accused Rahis and Jaspal after
about 8 months. Perusal of cash memo Ex. PW1/B reveals that neither
the make of printer nor serial number of the printer is mentioned in the
cash memo. In the absence of said information, it is not clear on what
basis PW1 has deposed that the said cash memo pertains to the alleged
recovered printer-cum-scanner. Admittedly, no CCTV was installed in the
shop of PW1, thus police had no opportunity to examine the footage.
PW1 has also failed to depose any special fact, which may impelled him
to remember the description of accused persons. Though PW1 deposed
that he can recognise all his 120 customers to whom he had sold
machines during the last one year, yet to my mind it not feasible. When it
was pointed out to PW1 that as per the cash memo book brought by him,

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 41 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

he had sold only three machines in the month of April 2009, he deposed
that he was having three bill books. It is not clear why he was maintaining
three bill books. He further deposed that since he used to deal in old and
used machines, he did not mention the model and serial number on the
cash memo. This explanation is not convincing, once, he is issuing the
invoice, it was his duty to mention all the particulars of the machine so
that in case of dispute it could be ascertain which machine was sold to
which customer. To my mind the testimony of PW1 is not sufficient to
establish that accused Rahis and Jaspal had purchased the alleged
recovered printer from PW1. 70. Indisputably prosecution case is that after apprehending
the accused Rahis, pursuant to the disclosure statement made by Rahis,
investigating officer had conducted a raid at 123, Pratap Khand, Jhilmil
Colony, from where police had not only arrested the accused Jaspal but
also recovered some counterfeit currency notes and printing material
including computer, printer-cum-scanner etc. PW14 SI Dilip in his
examination-in-chief did not depose that he had made any effort to join
any public independent person at the time taking search of the said
premises. However, in his cross-examination, he denied the suggestion
that he did not ask any public person to join the raiding party. However,
he admitted that no public person had joined the raiding party. He further
deposed that he can not tell the name and address of public person to
whom he made a request. He further deposed that he did not go up-
stairs, thus, can not tell how many rooms were constructed thereon. He
admitted that at the time of alleged recovery no public person was
present and seizure memo does not bear the signature of any public
person. From the above deposition, it can be safely culled out that he did
not ask any neighbour or other residents of the same premises to join the

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 42 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

raiding party otherwise he would be in a position to tell at the least
premises number of whose occupants he made a request to join the
raiding party. Now question arises as to whether investigating officer had
followed the provisions of law at the time of conducting search at 123,
Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony or not? 71. Section 100 Cr.P.C deals with the general provisions of
search. Sub- section 4 to Section 100 Cr.P.C. reads as under: (emphasis supplied) 72. Now question arises as to whether such person is required
to attend the Court to prove the said search as learned Additional Public
Prosecutor strenuously contended that in a city like Delhi no public
person comes forward to help the police as such persons do not want to
appear before the Court as a witness as it causes lot of hardship to them.
Sub- section 5 to Section 100 is the appropriate answer to the said query
and same runs as under: 73. Thus, from sub- section 4 & 5 to Section 100 Cr.P.C. it

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 43 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

becomes explicit that before making a search of a house, it is mandatory
to call upon two or more independent and respectable inhabitants of the
same locality and if no such person is available in the said locality, such
persons should be called from other locality. It is pertinent to state that
the persons should be independent and respectable. Mere asking from
any tom and harry who are not even interested to disclose their name to
the police does not amount compliance of the said mandatory provisions.
Since, in the instant case no effort was made to call upon any
independent and respectable persons either from the same locality or
from any other locality, thus I am of the view that investigating officer had
not complied with the provisions of Section 100 (4) of Cr.P.C. at the time
of taking search of 123, Pratap Khand. In view of sub- section 5 to Section 100 Cr.P.C. I do no find any substance in the contention of
learned Additional Public Prosecutor that no public person comes forward
to witness a search as he is required to appear in the witness box. 74. No doubt PW8 in his examination-in-chief deposed that
when he reached the spot, he and HC Rajiv stayed at ground floor
whereas other police officials went up-stairs whereas prosecution case is
that all recovery was affected from the ground floor. From the deposition
of PW8 it appears that he had reached the spot later on along with
inspector Govind Sharma. Since his testimony is contrary to the
deposition of PW4, PW12 and PW14, his testimony does not inspire any
confidence. 75. Purpose of handing over the seal to an independent witness
after sealing the case property is that no one could temper the case
property. But in the instant case, investigating officer had considered this
requirement merely a formality as PW14 had taken the seal from PW12

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 44 of 46
 State vs. Rahis & others

ASI Devender on number of times to seal the other case properties. To
my mind, this practice is not appreciable. Since, other police officers like
inspector Subhash Vats, SI Shiv Raj, inspector Govind Sharma etc were
present at the time of subsequent recoveries, investigating officer should
have used their seal if he required the seal to seal the case properties. 76. It is admitted case of the prosecution that the case property
allegedly recovered from accused Rahis, Jaspal and Ashraf was
deposited with the MCH (M) on December 13, 2009 whereas the case
property allegedly recovered from accused Rashid was deposited with
MHC (M) on March 11, 2010. PW9 in his deposition deposed that the
case property deposited on December 13, 2009 was sent to CFSL
Hyderabad on January 9, 2010 and FSL Rohini on January 19, 2010
whereas the case property deposited on March 11, 2010 was sent to FSL
Rohini on April 8, 2010. Thus, there is a delay of about 25 days in
sending the case property to CFSL Hyderabad whereas there is delay of
more than one month in sending the case property to FSL Rohini and
there is also delay of about 26 days in sending the case property to FSL
Rohini which was seized on March 11, 2010. There is no explanation
about the said delay from the prosecution side. Moreover, PW9 in his
cross-examination deposed that he did not recollect at what time the
pullands were deposited with him. He stated that he even did not
remember whether the said pullands were deposited with him in the
morning, afternoon or in the evening. 77. Taking into account the ongoing discussion coupled with
earlier discussion, I am of the considered opinion that prosecution has
failed to bring home the guilt of accused Rahis and Jaspal beyond the
shadow of all reasonable doubts. 78. Mulling over the foregoing discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of
accused persons beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts, thus, in
my view all accused deserve benefit of doubt, thus, I hereby acquit all the
accused persons from all the charges. 79. Seized case properties be confiscated to the State and be
destroyed after the expiry of period of appeal or revision and if any
appeal of revision is filed then after the decision of such appeal or
revision. 80. In order to bring more transparency and impartiality in the
investigation, copy of judgment be sent to the Commissioner of Police to
enable him to issue necessary direction to the Special Cell to follow the
Punjab Police Rules in its letters and spirit at the time of conducting
investigation. Announced in the open Court
on this 4th day of August 2012
 (PAWAN KUMAR JAIN)
 Additional Sessions Judge-01
 Central, Tis Hazari Courts,
 Delhi

SC No. 14/10 & 35/10 Page no. 46 of 46