Heard counsel for the parties. This bail application has been filed by the applicant,
who has been arrested on 16.12.2014 and is in Jail in
connection with Crime No.22/2014 registered with Police
Station S.T.F., Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM
Examination Scam cases - for the offence punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B of IPC and also
under Section 3 (d) 1 , 2 / 4 of the M.P. Manyata Prapt
Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is
that of a "middleman". The applicant with the help of
impersonator indulged in unfair means during the
examination conducted by VYAPAM. Learned counsel for the State, on instructions, submits
that after the arrested of applicant he had disclosed the name
of one Baldev, who in turn, disclosed the name of one
Sharad, who has committed the offence of impersonator.
The said Sharad has already been traced and is being 2 interrogated. It is, fairly, stated by the learned counsel for the State, on
instructions, that custodial interrogation of the applicant is no
more required. Charge-sheet has also been filed against the
applicant. Further, the investigation against the applicant is
complete in all respects as of now and, therefore, the presence of
applicant is no more required. In that sense, the investigation
regarding the link between the accused persons is already
complete. Further, the applicant is not involved in any other
crime of similar type. Besides, the applicant through counsel
undertakes to appear before the Investigating Officer as and
when called for further investigation including against him as
also to punctually appear before the trial Court to ensure early
disposal of the criminal trial. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the
matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the applicant
on following strict conditions:- Gwalior once a week on every Sunday
 between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon unless
 required to attend the office of the
 Investigating Officer at Bhopal on that
 day; and
 (4) The applicant will deposit his passport, if
 available, with the Investigating Agency,
 else file affidavit in this Court declaring
 that the applicant does not have any
 passport of any country. This compliance
 will be condition precedent for release on
 bail. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.