LA. 16137/2021 (of plaintiff u/O XXXIX R-1&2 CPC for interim relief) 1. This order will dispose of I.A No.16173/2021 under Order XXXIX
 Rules 1 & 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 („ CPC ‟ in short) filed by
 the plaintiff for interim relief. 2. I have heard the submissions of Mr. Sudhir Nandrajog, learned senior
 counsel for the plaintiff, Mr. Jayant K. Mehta, learned senior counsel for the
 defendant No.1, Mr. Rajiv Nayar, learned senior counsel for the defendant
 No.2 and Mr. Aditya Gupta, learned counsel for the defendant No.9 and
 considered the material on record and the cited case laws. 3. The plaintiff describes itself as a company registered under the Companies Act, 2013 , constituted in the year 1992 for the purpose of
 imparting quality education to students so that they gain adequate skills to
 secure admission to various premier educational institutions in the country
 such as the Indian Institute of Technology. It claims to have developed a
 unique method of teaching and formulating various programs, which ensures
 a high rate of success amongst its pupils in gaining admission to these
 premier institutions of higher education. Over a period of time, on account
 of hard work put in by the teachers at its 80 centers spread across the
 country, it has been declared to be India‟s number one coaching institute for
 Engineering Entrance Examinations in 2019. 4. The grievance that has led to the filing of the present suit is a video
 that has been uploaded on YouTube by the defendant No.2, which according
 to the plaintiff contained falsities. The defendant no.2 is seen in the video
 (the transcripts have been placed at pages 26-64 of the plaintiff‟s documents)
 introducing the topic as akin to the battle between „Sri Ram‟ and „Ravan‟,
 certainly suggesting that the plaintiff was in the position of „Ravan‟, by not
 heeding to the warnings of defendant No.1 on previous occasions, to refrain
 from disparaging it and thus inviting upon itself the strong rebuttal by
 defendant No.2. The plaintiff has been painted in a completely negative light
 by the use of such metaphors. Words such as „gumrah‟ have been used CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 2 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 against the plaintiff, the public is told that the plaintiff misled the parents,
 held the parents and children hostages, was focused only on making money,
 indulged in kidnapping and extortion, while at the same time ill-treating its
 teachers by not paying salaries and so on. There is also a comment on the
 refund policy of the plaintiff and other malpractices have been alleged. It is
 also claimed that there is a Central Bureau of Investigation („CBI‟ in short)
 case against the plaintiff. 5. Mr. Sudhir Nandrajog, learned senior counsel for the plaintiff
 submitted that the intent of the video was retribution borne out of malice. It
 was explained that it was fair practice in the industry for institutions to issue
 advertisements where a comparative performance is published. Since the
 comparison in the advertisement issued by the plaintiff (page no.27 of the
 plaintiff‟s document) was not complimentary to the defendants, therefore,
 the offending video was uploaded by the defendant no.2. Assuming that the
 plaintiff‟s advertisement had caused discomfort to the defendants, they could
 have sought remedy against the plaintiff but it did not give them license to
 defame and abuse the plaintiff. 6. It was submitted that no CBI case was pending nor has the plaintiff
 been summoned by the CBI for investigation ever. Even as per the
 documents filed by the defendants (i.e. Document no.1), a complaint seems
 to have been filed and the Human Resource Development Minister had only
 assured that the matter would follow its own course. That would not mean
 that a CBI case has been registered or investigation was going on. Further,
 by relying on videos that showed a disgruntled teacher, whose services stood
 terminated and against whom the High Court had issued an injunction and in
 respect of which the teacher was in contempt, the claim has been made that CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 3 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 the plaintiff did not pay the teachers. Similarly, the National Consumer
 Disputes Redressal Forum has repeatedly upheld the refund policy of the
 plaintiff. The use of contemptuous words in the video, such as "kidnapping"
 was highly offensive, particularly when the plaintiff and defendants were in
 the same field of business and were competitors. 7. It was further submitted that the mala fide action of the defendants
 was also writ large in their manipulation of service in a civil suit filed by
 them pending before the District Court, Gautam Budh Nagar. The defendant
 no.1 had filed a suit on 29th November, 2021, after a legal notice had been
 issued by the plaintiff to the defendants on 17th November, 2021 and
 advance copy of this suit filed on 23rd November, 2021 had also been served
 on them. Thereafter, the summons in that suit were issued at the wrong
 address of the plaintiff i.e., it was sent to a study center and not to the
 registered or Corporate Office of the plaintiff, at a time when the study
 center was closed due to Covid-19 restrictions and which fact was known to
 all. Learned senior counsel submitted that the offending video had to be
 taken down, even at the interim stage, as its continued circulation would
 cause much loss of reputation to the plaintiff. 8. Mr. Jayant K. Mehta, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of
 the defendant no.1 submitted that it was raising a defence of justification. It
 was submitted that the video relied upon material which was disclosed in the
 description box and therefore the statements made in the video were not
 baseless. It was further submitted that the defendant no.1 having relied on
 material would require to be given an opportunity to substantiate the
 statements made in the video. Opinions could differ and what inference is to
 be drawn may be looked into at a later stage. Finally, it was also submitted CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 4 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 that no final relief can be granted at an interim stage. The learned senior
 counsel submitted that the plaintiff could be compensated with award of
 damages, if the comments in the video were found to be unjustified but if the
 video was taken down, the defendant would get no opportunity to prove
 justification. It was also submitted that the video transcripts filed by the
 plaintiff were not reflecting the complete video. In these circumstances,
 when hyperlinks revealed the source of information and justification has
 been pleaded and further the plaintiff has sought damages, there was no
 occasion for grant of any interim relief. Reliance has been placed on the
 judgments in Khushwant Singh and Anr. Vs. Maneka Gandhi 2001 SCC
 OnLine Del 1030 and Dr. Shashi Tharoor Vs. Arnab Goswami and Anr.
 2017 SCC OnLine Del 12049. 9. Mr. Rajiv Nayar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the
 defendant no.2 submitted that apart from the fact that the interim reliefs
 sought are materially the same as the final reliefs sought in the plaint, except
 for damages, and which cannot be granted, the fact remains that in respect of
 prayer (a), no injunction in anticipation, can be granted. Existence of malice
 is also to be examined on evidence. Similarly, the defendant no.2, who also
 claims justification in making the statements recorded in the video, has to be
 granted an opportunity as well, to prove justification during trial. When such
 a plea of justification has been raised, there can be no interim injunction
 granted. Moreover, it was submitted that since the plaintiff had claimed
 damages, it was disentitled for interim injunction. It was further submitted
 that every word in the video cannot be looked into at this interim stage, to
 determine, whether they constituted defamation or not. Reliance has been
 placed on the judgements in State of U.P. Vs. Ram Sukhi Devi (2005) 9 CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 5 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 SCC 733, Sardar Charanjit Singh Vs. Arun Purie & Ors. 1982 SCC
 OnLine Del 301, Indian Express Newspapers Vs. Dr. Jagmohan
 Mundhara & Anr. 1984 SCC OnLine Bom 256, Abdul Wahab Galadari
 Vs. Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Ltd. 1993 SCC OnLine Bom
 180, Khushwant Singh (supra), P. Subba Rao v. Andhra Association, Delhi
 (Regd. ), 2008 SCC OnLine Del 417, Tata Sons Limited Vs. Greenpeace
 International & Anr. 2011 SCC OnLine Del 466, Sellers Retail (India) (P)
 Ltd. Vs. Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. ( 2012) 6 SCC 792, Naveen Jindal Vs. Zee
 Media Corporation Ltd. (2014) 5 HCC (Del) 172, Dr. Shashi Tharoor
 (supra), and Kailash Gahlot Vs. Vijender Gupta & Ors. [order dated 27th
 August, 2021 in CS (OS) No.403/2021]. 10. In rejoinder, the learned senior counsel for the plaintiff submitted that
 the entire tone and tenor of the video has to be considered and the plaintiff
 has not come to the court against one or two words. By removal of one or
 two words, the malice in the video will not get removed. It was submitted
 that videos are different from newspaper publications, inasmuch as the
 videos are available for viewership on a continuous basis and their removal
 was in the present time and not in the future. It was also submitted that
 justification is not the same as „truth‟ and while truth can be an absolute
 defence, justification is not of that quality. Justification had to be founded on
 verifiable data but it was clear that the defendants have not verified the truth. Moreover, the malafide intent of the defendants was clear from the fact that
 the defendant no.2 admittedly had been in the employment of the plaintiff
 till 2011 and therefore was fully aware of the hard work of the plaintiff and
 its programs and the efforts put in by the teachers and yet he chose to make
 the wild allegations. This was not a case of pre-publication, as in the cases CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 6 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 relied by the defendants, where the Court did not have the proposed matter
 sought to be published and look into its impact. Here the publication has
 already been effected and it contained highly defamatory material and which
 was clearly not in public interest. Reliance has been placed on Bata India
 Ltd. v. A.M. Turaz , 2012 SCC OnLine Del 5387 to submit that no one has a
 right to disparage the reputation of another. It was submitted that in
 appropriate cases, considering the impact on the plaintiff as well as public
 interest, relief of a final nature can be granted and the present case was one
 such case. In these circumstances, it was prayed that interim injunction be
 granted. DISCUSSION 11. The plaintiff and the defendants are in the field of education. They
 both have developed programs that tutor students for competitive
 examinations such as „JEE‟. They claim to be well-known, having built
 their reputation over decades. As traditionally, transfer of knowledge has
 been considered as the highest of all human action and does not involve
 accumulation of wealth, one is hesitant to use the word "business" rivals to
 describe the plaintiff and the defendants but since both are incorporated
 entities, there appears to be no other apt word to describe them. Considering
 that the pool for both of them is the same i.e. the young students in the
 Higher Secondary Schools, who are desirous of joining premier engineering
 colleges and institutions, they seek to exert themselves to attract more and
 more from the common pool. In normal course, such competition would
 work for the improvement in the quality of the services and must be
 welcomed. 12. However, there are occasions when competition takes an ugly turn. To
 take a cue from the preamble to the Competition Act, 2002 , practices having
 adverse effect on competition need to be prevented but at the same time
 competition must be promoted and sustained to protect the interest of
 consumers and to ensure freedom of trade carried by all participants in the
 markets, here the field of education. 13. While competing with one another, it is but natural that each player
 would portray themselves to be the best in the field. It is equally possible
 that while doing so, they may adversely comment on their competitors.
 Allegations and counter-allegations of disparagement, defamation, injury to
 reputation and similar issues then crop up. This is one such case. 14. The plaintiff in the instant application has made the following prayers: 15. The contentions against the grant of these prayers may be summarized
 under three heads: (i) that the mandatory injunction sought of taking down
 the video cannot be granted at the interim stage, when the defendants have CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 8 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 pleaded justification; (ii) that the final relief cannot be granted at the interim
 stage; and, (iii) that the plaintiff cannot seek injunction for future posting or
 publishing of articles and posts by the defendants. These will be discussed
 hereinafter. 16. It is true, as submitted by the learned senior counsel for the plaintiff,
 that the defence of justification is not of the same caliber as the defence of
 truth. Truth is an absolute defence and no injunction can follow when truth
 is pleaded. But it is undeniable that justification can be established only at
 trial and a defendant ought to have an opportunity to establish it through
 evidence. When the plea of justification is taken, the courts are slow in
 issuing injunctions against publication. The general view taken is that if the
 defendants fail to substantiate their defence of justification, then the plaintiff
 would become entitled to damages. In Fraser v. Evans, [1969] 1 QB 349
 Lord Denning MR stated the law as follows: 17. There is no thumb rule that lays down that the court is completely
 powerless to grant mandatory injunction or a final relief at the interim stage. In Deoraj Vs. State of Maharashtra & Ors. (2004) 4 SCC 697, the Supreme
 Court has held: 18. The facts in the present case would have to be considered to determine
 whether the plaintiff has made out a very strong prima facie case entitling it
 to an injunction that would tantamount to the grant of the final relief itself. 19. There is no gainsaying that in general, the Bonnard Rule has been
 followed by the courts in determining whether interlocutory injunctions CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 10 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 should be granted against publication in cases of defamation including in the
 case cited on behalf of the defendants viz. Tata Sons Limited Vs.
 Greenpeace International (supra). In Bonnard it was decided that an interim
 injunction should not be awarded unless a defence of justification by the
 defendant was certain to fail at trial level. Free speech has been held to be of
 paramount importance. The right to free speech must remain unimpeded,
 except when it leads to the commission of a wrongful act. Or the words
 published or spoken are ex facie untrue. As observed in Holley v. Smyth,
 [1998] QB 726, the rule is also partly founded on the pragmatic grounds that
 until there has been disclosure of documents and cross-examination at the
 trial, a court cannot safely proceed on the basis that what the defendants
 wish to say is not true. 20. With respect to the argument that the plaintiff cannot seek injunction
 for future posting or publishing of articles, this court has held itself bound by
 the view of the Division Bench in Khushwant Singh 's case (supra),
 succinctly restated in His Holiness Shamar Rimpoche Vs. Lea Terhune
 and Others AIR 2005 Del 167 as follows :- 21. Having considered the view of the courts on all the three aspects CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 11 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 urged on behalf of the defendants, it is necessary to turn to the facts and
 circumstances at hand. In the present case, the defendants have submitted
 that they were justified in making the statements in the video as these were
 based on materials in respect of which links had been provided in the
 description of the video. The defendants have also filed newspaper and other
 reports and a judgment of the Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum-II, U.T.
 Chandigarh, in respect of the refund policy of the plaintiff. It is submitted
 that once the defendants have disclosed not only their defence to justify their
 remarks, but also the documents and materials on which they were seeking
 to rely, then automatically the case must go for trial and no interim
 injunction can be granted. The judgments relied upon by the defendants do
 set out this principle. 22. At the same time the question to be answered is, whether the plaintiff
 has made out a prima facie case for a direction requiring the defendants to
 take down the YouTube video as detailed in the para No.20 of the plaint. As
 noticed above, the plaintiff and the defendants are business rivals. They
 compete for good students coming to their institutions so that their effort in
 establishing a reputation of being a good coaching institute would be
 fortified. Both sides would naturally seek to place in the public domain such
 aspects of their activities which would encourage students to come to their
 coaching institutes. The video that has been filed opens up with the
 defendant No.2 referring to an advertisement published in the "Hindustan
 Times" by the plaintiff. This advertisement has been filed by the plaintiff at
 page 25 of its documents in the E-file and is reproduced below for
 convenience: 23. If a competitive performance has been listed by the plaintiff to show
 their better performance, then a response to the advertisement by way of the CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 13 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 video is to be seen as a counter advertisement. Thus, what is good for the
 goose should be equally good for the gander. Though neither side has argued
 on freedom of commercial speech, and stressed on freedom of speech under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, this Court has considered the issue from
 that angle as here the issue relates to claims made publicly by the parties in
 respect of their services and both are competitors in the same field of
 business. Hence, the issue is not merely of freedom of speech but of freedom
 of commercial speech. 24. Competitive advertisements are permissible as held in Tata Press
 Limited Vs. Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited and Others (1995) 5
 SCC 139, as advertising is essential for economic activity. It informs the
 consumers of the existence of various goods and services, the quality of
 these products and services, the product origin etc. It also builds up
 reputation. It is in this context that the Supreme Court held as below: Article (19) (1) (a) not only guarantees freedom of speech
 and expression, it also protects the rights of an individual
 to listen, read and receive the said speech. So far as the
 economic needs of a citizen are concerned, their fulfilment
 has to be guided by the information disseminated through
 the advertisements. The protection of Article 19(1)(a) is
 available to the speaker as well as to the recipient of the
 speech. The recipient of "commercial speech" may be
 having much deeper interest in the advertisement than the
 businessman who is behind the publication. An
 advertisement giving information regarding a lifesaving
 drug may be of much more importance to general public
 than to the advertiser who may be having purely a trade
 consideration. 25. We, therefore, hold that "commercial speech" is a
 part of the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed
 under Article 19(1) (a) of the constitution." 25. Having said that, there is however a limitation to the exercise of this
 commercial free speech (also see Tata Sons Limited Vs. Greenpeace
 International ) (supra). While engaging in advertising once own products,
 care is to be exercised to avoid disparagement of another‟s products or
 denigration of the goodwill and reputation built by a competitor. Malicious
 falsehood cannot become freedom of speech. The learned senior counsel for
 the plaintiff urged that because the video was in response to a comparative
 advertisement issued by the plaintiff, the content of the video was malicious.
 However, no such inference can be drawn, as there are portions in the video
 which relies on some material on the basis of which the defendants plead
 justification. 26. Since it is the case of the plaintiff that the video is in response to the
 advertisement of the plaintiff, the video though of some length can also be
 considered as an audio-visual advertisement of the defendants, to assure
 their students and their parents of the quality of education imparted in their
 institutions. The content of the video would then have to be assessed on the
 three Tests that have been laid down by the Division Bench of this court in Pepsi Co., Inc. v. Hindustan Coca Cola Ltd. , 2003 SCC OnLine Del 802 to
 decide the question of disparagement, namely (i) intent of the commercial; (ii) manner of the commercial; (iii) storyline of the commercial and the
 message sought to be conveyed by the commercial. A fourth factor has been
 included by the Co-ordinate Bench of this court in Reckitt Benckiser India CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 15 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 Private Limited Vs. Hindustan Unilever Limited 2021 SCC OnLine Del
 4896 viz., (iv) while glorifying its product, an advertiser may not denigrate
 or disparage a rival product. 27. While some latitude is to be given for hyperbole and commendatory
 expression for oneself with an attempt to show down the competitor, there
 can be no license to anyone to denigrate the competitor. The courts have
 protected parties who have been at the receiving end of such negative
 advertisements. 28. There can be no doubt that justification would require to be
 established by evidence. What would be the impact of a video being shown
 on social media and shared and viewed by people several times over, on a
 common and ordinary person who is an anxious parent wanting to send
 his/her child to enter the portals of reputed engineering colleges and looking
 for a coaching institute, may have to be considered. But the view taken by
 this court in Tata Sons Limited Vs. Greenpeace International (supra) is that
 wider viewership or a degree of permanence characteristic of publication on
 the internet would not change the essential fact that it too is but a medium of
 expression and calls for no different standards for grant of interlocutory
 injunction. There is no reason for this Court to take a different view. 29. So the only question to be seen is, whether the video in question
 contains any disparagement or defamatory matter. It is then apparent in the
 video, that the defendant No.2 has used very offensive words alleging that
 the plaintiff would „kidnap" and take the students "hostage" and put them
 under such pressure and indulge in "extortion"--allegations that are serious,
 as indicating that the plaintiff has no qualms in indulging in crime for
 money. 30. Whether there is one disgruntled teacher or several, as are the varying
 stances of the plaintiff and the defendants, there may be some material for
 the defendants to have claimed that the teachers were dissatisfied. It would
 be an inquiry during trial whether, on whatever material the defendants had
 relied on, such an inference can be drawn and statements made. Similarly,
 criticizing the refund policy on the basis of the decisions of the Consumer
 Disputes Redressal Forum prima facie does not appear to be defamatory and
 that too of a scale which would require immediate directions to pull down
 the video. Criticism of the various programs of the plaintiff in this video and
 the elaboration of how the defendant No.1 conducts its programs would also
 be only in the nature of competitive advertisement. The comparison would
 naturally be tested during the trial to determine whether the inferences drawn
 were justified. 31. But, to accuse someone of kidnapping, extortion etc. is different. Use
 of such strong words is inappropriate to say the least. It directly impacts the
 parent who would be discouraged with such negative description of the
 plaintiff. These words ex facie are untrue. These words cannot be allowed to
 remain. This Court, however, does not agree with the submission of the
 learned senior counsel for the plaintiff that removal of the offensive words
 will not be sufficient to meet the ends of justice at this interim stage. 32. In conclusion, while the defendants have established that the balance
 of convenience is in their favour as no harm would be caused to the plaintiff
 if the video remained, that cannot be compensated through award of
 damages, this Court is of the considered view that the defendants will have
 to take down the aforementioned sentences in the video and ensure that no CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 17 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57 version with such content is in circulation, depicting the plaintiff as a set of
 criminals. 33. Accordingly, an affidavit shall be filed by the defendants to this effect
 that they have edited out the aforementioned offending words and sentences
 that have been used in the video. The same be filed within four weeks. 34. For the present therefore, there are no directions to the defendant
 No.9/YouTube. 35. The application is disposed of, in these terms. CS(OS) 656/2021 36. The defendants may file written statement(s) to the suit within thirty
 days with an advance copy to the opposite side. The defendants shall also
 file the affidavit of admission/denial of the documents filed by the plaintiff,
 failing which the written statements shall not be taken on record. 37. The plaintiff is at liberty to file replication(s) to the written
 statement(s) filed by the defendants within thirty days of the filing of the
 written statement(s). The replication(s) shall be accompanied by the affidavit
 of admission/denial in respect of the documents filed by the defendants,
 failing which the replication(s) shall not be taken on record. 38. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any documents, the
 same shall be sought and given within the time lines. 39. List before the court for framing of issues on 10th May, 2022. 40. The order be uploaded on the website forthwith. (ASHA MENON)
 JUDGE
 FEBRUARY 16, 2022/„bs‟ CS(OS) 656/2021 Page 18 of 18 Signature Not Verified Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:16.02.2022 22:59:57