All these appeals arise out of the trial of some of the

cases, which came to be known as the infamous "Telgi

Stamp Paper Scam". According to the prosecution - Central

Bureau of Investigation (hereinafter referred to as 'CBI' for

brevity) the scam was to an extent of almost Rs.25,000/-

Crores (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand Crores). 2. The case of the prosecution is that accused Nos.1

to 5 were working for M/s. Citizen Enterprises, which had

its office at Jayanagar, Bengaluru and also at Brigade

Garden, Church Street, Bengaluru. That accused nos.1 to 5

were staying in a Hotel by name Shalimar, at City Market,

Bengaluru, during the year 1996-97. Accused no.6, Abdul

Rahim Lad Sab Telgi, is the elder brother of accused no.9,

Abdul Kareem Telgi. Accused no.9 was supervising the

day-to day affairs of the office of M/s.Citizen Enterprises at 13 Jayanagar and at Brigade Garden, Church Street,

Bengaluru. Accused No.7, was the proprietor of M/s.

Citizen Enterprises, which had its office at Jayanagar,

Bengaluru. Accused No.8, was working as an Inspector of

Police in the City Market Police Station during the relevant

period of time. Accused no.9 Abdul Karim Telgi, was the

kingpin of the stamp paper racket. Accused no.10 was also

an employee of M/s. Citizen Enterprises, Accused No.11,

was a Doctor who was a close associate of the accused.

Accused No.12, was the Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police,

City Market Police Station. 3. That Accused No.7 had obtained a stamp

vending licence in his name on 06.03.1996. It was

thereafter renewed upto 31.03.1998. The licence was to

sell non-judicial stamps upto Rs.25,000/-, judicial stamp

upto 1,000/- Court fee stamps, copying sheets and Hundi

papers. The licence did not permit him to sell any other

type of stamps, stamp papers, etc. Accused No.7 opened a

proprietary firm in the name of 'M/s.Citizen Enterpises' at 14 No.51/22, 3rd Floor, 8th E Main, 4th Block, Jayanagar,

Bengaluru and thereafter at No.19/1-56, Church Street,

Brigade Gardens, Bengaluru. He was selling counterfeit

stamps and forged stamps of all kinds, i.e., Special

Adhesive Stamps, Insurance Stamps, Foreign Bill Stamps,

Postal Stamps etc., for which he had no licence. He was

selling the said stamps with the involvement and

conspiracy of the other Accused nos.1 to 5 and 9 and 10 in

Bengaluru, through his firm. He had got the Kannada word

'Karnataka' printed on the stamp i.e., on the Bill Stamps of

Rs.100/- denomination, Share Transfer Stamps of

Rs.100/-, Rs.20/-, Rs.50/-, Rs.5/-, Rs.1/- denominations,

Foreign Bill Stamps of Rs.20/- denomination, Insurance

Stamps of Rs.2/- denomination, Insurance stamps of

Rs.1/- denomination, for selling to various organisation in

Karnataka. That Accused Nos.1 to 5 along with Accused

No.6 and 8, were staying in Hotel Shalimar, at No.127 and

128, N.R. Road, City Market, Bengaluru in Room Nos.101

and 104. 4. On 10.04.1997, the then Police Inspector, City

Market Police Station, Bengaluru city, along with other

police officials and panchas conducted a raid on the said

rooms of Hotel Shalimar. They apprehended Accused Nos.1

to 5 being the employees of M/s. Citizen Enterprises and

also Accused No.6, along with two folded newspapers

containing the stamps of different denominations, three

green color covers containing counterfeit stamps of

different denominations, nine covers of Shalimar paints

containing stamps of different denominations, two bundle

of postal stamps and various other material which were

seized. 5. On 10.04.1997 at 8.30 p.m., Accused No.8,

took the Accused Nos.1 to 6 to the city market police

station and conducted a seizure mahazar. Accused Nos.1

to 5 were kept in the lock up. Accused no.6 was asked to

sit outside. The same day Accused Nos.7, 9 and 11,

approached Accused Nos.8 and 12 and all of them 16 conspired together for the release of Accused No.6 and for

not including him in the FIR, etc. Accused No.8 on

receiving an illegal gratification through Accused No.12

from Accused No.9, did not show the presence of Accused

No.6 in the records pertaining to the raid and seizure. He

only showed the names of Accused Nos.1 to 5 in the

mahazar. Thereby, he illegally released Accused No.6 from

the police station. 6. It is the further case of the prosecution that

the Hotel in which the raid was conducted was not within

the jurisdiction of the city market police station. Accused

No.8 had no authority to conduct the raid or the

investigation, since the same came under the jurisdiction

of the Kalasipalya Police Station. Notwithstanding the

same, he proceeded to conduct the investigation and also

filed the charge-sheet. He allowed Accused Nos.6, 7, 9

and 10 to escape from the clutches of law. Thereafter,

Accused No.8 filed a charge-sheet against Accused Nos.1 17 to 6 for the offence punishable under Section - 473 of IPC alone. No other offences were charged against the

Accused. That only a few stamps were sent to the Indian

Security Press at Nasik for getting the Genuineness Report.

During the course of the investigation, it was revealed that

Citizen Enterprises had sold stamps worth Rs.1,30,625/- to

Indian Bank, Raheja Towers, M.G.Road, Bengaluru, out of

which Rs.3,145/- were genuine stamps. Likewise stamps

sold to M/s.Citizen Enterprises Limited worth Rs.29,866/-,

were not genuine and the impression 'Karnataka' was also

forged. In the same manner, various instances were

narrated with regard to sale of stamps and receipt of

money. The sale were of counterfeit stamps and that the

money was deposited in the accounts opened by Accused

No.7 in the name of M/s.Citizen Enterprises. Therefore,

Accused Nos.1 to 7 and 9 and 10 indulged in the

manufacturing and selling of fake stamps in Bengaluru, in

the name of M/s.Citizen Enterprises and the sale proceeds

were shared by all the Accused. That Accused nos.8 and 18 12 namely, the officers attached to the City Market Police

Station, at the instance of Accused No.11, colluded with

Accused Nos.1 to 7 and 9 and 10 in connection with the

above fake business and records were manipulated. 7. It is relevant to notice that the initial

investigation was made by Accused no.8. On such an

investigation, he filed a charge-sheet against Accused

Nos.1 to 6 for the offence punishable under Section - 473

of the Indian Penal Code . The trial commenced. His

evidence was being recorded. At that stage, the stamp

paper racket was unearthed. Various proceedings were

initiated before the High court of Karnataka as well as

before the Hon'ble Supreme court. The Hon'ble Supreme

Court in its order dated 15.03.2004 passed in W.P.(Civil)

No.522 of 2003 and the subsequent notification of the

government of India dated 23.03.2004 and various other

notifications, directed that the investigation be handed

over to the CBI. Therefore, the CBI took up the

investigation of the cases in all matters pertaining to the 19 stamp racket. One such case is the present case. The CBI

having taken up the investigation, added Accused Nos.7 to

12 by filing a supplementary charge-sheet. 24 charges

were framed. Therefore, the trial proceeded against all the

12 accused. 8. Even before the charge-sheet could be filed by

the CBI, Accused No.6 died. Therefore, Accused Nos.1 to 5

and 7 to 12 were charged for the offences punishable

under Section - 255, 256, 258, 259, 465, 467, 468, 471,

210, 217, 218, 221 201, 260 read with Section-120B of

IPC and also for the offences punishable under Section -

13(1)(d) and 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act read

with Section-120B of IPC with reference to Accused Nos.8

and 12. The Accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be

tried. In order to prove the charges, the prosecution

examined 34 witnesses and marked 213 exhibits, along

with 113 material objects. The statements of the Accused

under Section-313 were recorded. They denied the case of

the prosecution. Accused No.8 examined DW-1 as his 20 defence witness Exhibits D1 to D4, were marked as

defence documents on behalf of the Accused. On

conclusion of the trial Accused Nos.1 to 5 were convicted

for the offences punishable under Section - 255 256, 258,

260 read with Section-120-B. Accused Nos.7, 9 and 10

were convicted for the offences punishable under Section -

255, 256, 258, 259, 260, 210, 212 of IPC read with

Section - 120-B of IPC . The sentence were ordered to run

concurrently except for the default sentence. Accused

No.8 was convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 212 , 217 , 218 , 201 and 221 of IPC read with Section-120-B of IPC. 9. Accused No.11 was acquitted for the offences

punishable under Sections 212 , 217 , 218 , 201 and 221 of

IPC read with Section-120-B of IPC and also under Sections 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption

Act read with Section-120-B of IPC. Accused Nos.1 to 5, 7, 9 and 10 were acquitted for

the offences charged under Sections 465, 467, 468, 471

and of IPC and Sections 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of Prevention

of Corruption Act read with Section-120-B of IPC. Accused No.8 was acquitted for the offence

punishable under Sections -13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the

Prevention of Corruption Act read with Section-120-B of

I.P.C. They were sentenced as follows: ii) The accused No.1/ Shanal Jamedar @
Badruddin, accused No.2/Anand @ Anand
Thorat, accused No.3/Illiyas Ahmed, accused
No.4/Sohail @ Sohail Khan, accused
No.5/Ibrahim Hudli @ Sadiq Ibrahim, accused
No.7/Syed Mohiddin, accused No.9/Abdul
Kareem Lad Sab Telgi and accused
No.10/Wazir Ahmed Salik Vazeer @
Md.Hameed Salik @ Shukth Ali each shall
undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of
7 years and to pay fine of Rs.25,000-00 each
for the offence punishable under Section 258 IPC read with Section 120 (B) IPC. In default
of payment of fine each of the above accused
shall undergo further rigorous imprisonment
for period of six months. iii) The accused No.1/ Shanal Jamedar @
Badruddin, accused No.2/Anand @ Anand
Thorat, accused No.3/Illiyas Ahmed, accused
No.4/Sohail @ Sohail Khan, accused 23 No.5/Ibrahim Hudli @ Sadiq Ibrahim, accused
No.7/Syed Mohiddin, accused No.9/Abdul
Kareem Lad Sab Telgi and accused
No.10/Wazir Ahmed Salik Vazeer @
Md.Hameed Salik @ Shukth Ali each shall
undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of
7 years and to pay fine of Rs.25,000-00 each
for the offence punishable under Section 259 IPC read with Section 120 (B) IPC. In default
of payment of fine each of the above accused
shall undergo further rigorous imprisonment
for period of six months. iv) The accused No.7/Syed Mohiddin, accused
No.9/Abdul Kareem Lad Sab Telgi and accused
No.10/Wazir Ahmed Salik Vazeer @
Md.Hameed Salik @ Shukth Ali each shall
undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of
3 years and to pay fine of Rs.25,000-00 each
for the offence punishable under Section 201 IPC read with Section 120(B) IPC. In default
of payment of fine each of the above accused
shall under further rigorous imprisonment for a
period of six months. v) The accused No.8/T.G.Sangram Singh shall
 undergo sentence of rigorous imprisonment for
 a period of 3 years and to pay fine of
 Rs.25,000-00 for the offence punishable under Section 218 IPC read with Section 120(B) IPC.
 In default of payment of fine as ordered above,
 he shall undergo further rigorous imprisonment
 for a period of six months. vi) The accused No.8/T.G.Sangram Singh shall
 undergo sentence of rigorous imprisonment for
 a period of 3 years and fine of Rs.25,000-00
 for the offence punishable under Section 221 IPC read with Section 120 (B) IPC. In default
 of payment of fine as ordered above, he shall
 undergo further rigorous imprisonment for a
 period of six months." 10. Aggrieved by the same, accused Nos.2 and 4 have filed Criminal Appeal No.660 of 2009, Accused No.3

has filed Criminal Appeal No.510 of 2011, Accused No.5

has filed Criminal Appeal No.338 of 2011, Accused No.7

has filed Criminal Appeal No.360 of 2009, Accused No.8

has filed Criminal Appeal No.457 of 2009, Accused No.9 25 has filed Criminal Appeal No.414 of 2009. The appeal filed

by accused No.10 in Criminal Appeal No.326 of 2010 was

dismissed as withdrawn by the order of this Court on

08.03.2016. Criminal Appeal No.672 of 2011 filed by

accused No.1 was disposed off by the orders of this Court

dated 16.08.2017, by according the benefit of Section-428

of Cr.P.C. 11. Even though a large number of witnesses and a

huge number of exhibits and material objects were placed

for consideration before the Trial Court, the learned

counsels restrict their submissions only to the evidence of

the specific witnesses which is referable to the respective

appellants. It is their plea that consideration of the

relevant evidences would be sufficient for the just disposal

of the appeals. Hence, each one of these appeals will be

considered with reference to the respective appellants. 12. Heard learned counsels and examined the

records. I Crl.A.No.660 of 2009, Crl.A.No.510 of 2011 and
 Crl.A.No.338 of 2011 : From 1996 till October 1997, he worked as the Assistant

Sub-Inspector of Police in City Market Police Station,

Bengaluru City. On 10.04.1997 at about 2.00 p.m.,

accused No.8, Sri.T.G.Sangram Singh, the Inspector of

Police called him to his room in the Police Station. On that

day, he was directed to control traffic, in view of fact that

the dead-body of Sri.Subbaiah, who was working as a

Police Constable, was being taken through the said route. 27 After performing the said duty, accused no.8, directed PW-

1 and Sri.Shivkumar to go to Hotel Shalimar, N.R. Road,

Bengaluru. When he went to Hotel Shalimar, Accused

Nos.8 and 12 were already present there. They all went to

room No.101 and 104 and knocked at the door. On

opening the door, Accused Nos.8 and 12, went inside the

above two rooms and others were standing outside. It was

about 3-4 p.m. After about 1 to 1 ½ hours, accused Nos.8

and 12 and another Police Officer, Sri.Vali Basha and about

5-6 persons came outside the room. Suitcases and bags

were also brought by them from the said two rooms. PW-1

and Shivkumar went down from the said rooms. Accused

No.8 directed them to go to the Police Station by walk.

Accused No.8 took the said 5-6 persons in the police jeep.

Accused No.8 and 12 and Sri.Vali Basha and the 5-6

persons travelled in the police jeep. PW-1 and Shivkumar

and others went by walk. Hotel Shalimar is at a walking

distance from the Police Station. Half-an-hour later, they

reached the police station. (b). Accused No.8 gave PW-1 a piece of paper and

dictated the matter to be written by him. Accused No.8,

dictated the mahazar, which was reduced to writing. He

was asked to sign it. Therefore, he signed the mahazar.

The same is marked as Exhibit-P1. It bears his signature.

Exhibit-P2 is a seizure report that was also written by him

and he has identified the signatures on the same. The

persons who were apprehended by Accused no.8 were kept

in the police lock up. (c). One person fell down in the lock-up. Vali Basha

and accused No.12 took the said person outside the lock-

up and took him to hospital. On the next day morning,

when he came to the police station, out of six persons,

only five persons were in the lock up. The names of all

accused Nos.1 to 5 were written in Exhibits-P1 and P2 as

per the dictation and direction of Accused No.8. (d). After about 8 to 10 days, accused No.8 gave

him 5-6 packets containing stamps. He was directed by 29 accused No.8 to go to Nasik along with Sri.Venkatappa,

Constable of the Police Station. Thereafter, they went to

India Security Press at Nasik. The officials of the Press

opened the packets. The face value of the stamps was

about Rs.1,44,790/-. They were asked to deposit Rs.1/-

per stamp. They were asked to deposit a sum of

Rs.1,50,000/- as fees. As they had not carried that much

money, he contacted accused No.8 from Nasik. Accused

No.8 asked them to once again contact the officials of the

Press. He contacted them. The officials told them that one

sample stamp from each sheet could be brought to the

Press for the purpose of examination. However, no stamps

were given to the officials of the Press. Thereafter, he and

Venkatappa returned to Bengaluru with the said packets of

stamps. He returned the packets to accused No. 8. About

5-6 later, accused No.8 gave him one packet containing

sample stamps to be carried to Nasik. He and Venkatappa

again went to Nasik. A letter with the packet containing 30 stamps were given to Officials of the India Security Press.

Thereafter they returned to Bengaluru. (e). At that stage, the Public Prosecutor submitted

that he intends to treat the witness as hostile, since he

was resiling from the statement made by him under Section-164 of Cr.P.C. The same was permitted. The

witness was cross-examined by the State Public

Prosecutor. During the course of cross-examination, PW-1

identified his statement made under Section-164 of Cr.P.C.

He identified his signature on the same. He has identified

the five persons other than accused No.6 namely, Ram Lal

Telgi, who was also in the police station. That accused

Nos.1, 2, 4 and Sri.Sheik Ibrahim were kept in the police

lock up. That Accused No.6 was made to sit outside the

lock up. That accused Nos.1, 2 and 4 namely, Sri.Shanal,

Jamadar, Sri.Anand, Sri.Sohail and Sri.Sheik Ibrahim were

kept in the police lock-up. He admits to the fact that three

or four persons came to the police station with him.

Accused No.8, Accused No.12, Sri.Vali Basha and Head 31 Constable Sri. Shivkumar conspired together. That he

prepared the charge-sheet in Crime No.109/1997, namely

the charge-sheet filed by accused No.8, in terms of

Exhibit-P6. He admits his handwriting and that accused

No.8 has signed the charge-sheet. (f). He admits to the fact that accused No.6 was

shown as absconding. In the cross-examination, he has

also identified the material objects. At para-82 of the

cross-examination, he has stated that if he presently sees

all the five accused persons, he would not be able to

identify them. 4.(a) PW-2 was a Police Constable in Market Police

Station, Bengaluru from 1995 to 2000. He has stated in

his evidence that on 10.04.1997, he was entrusted the

duty of taking rounds in the area under the jurisdiction of

the City Market Police Station. At about 3.30 p.m., when

he was in the Police Station, accused No.8 called him to his

Chamber and told him, that he had received a telephonic 32 information, with regard to certain persons camping in

Hotel Shalimar, N.R.Road, Bengaluru and who are doing

illegal activities and he should accompany him. He,

accused No.8, Vali Basha and accused No.12, went in the

Police Jeep to Hotel Shalimar. On the way, PW-1 was

picked up and they went to Hotel Shalimar. The PSI

knocked at the door of Room No.104 of Hotel Shalimar.

The inmates opened the door. There were five persons

inside the room. Accused No.8 made PW-1 and him to

stand outside the door of the room. Accused No.8 made

enquiries with the persons who were in Room No.104.

Accused Nos.8, 12 and Vali Basha went to Room No.101.

There was one person who was aged about 45 to 50 years

inside the room. Accused No.8 brought him and two

others to Room No.104 along with one bag. Thereafter,

they went to Room No.101, where another bag was seized.

After enquiry with the said persons, accused Nos.8, 12 and

Vali Basha and the other persons came to the ground floor

of the hotel. All the six persons were taken by accused 33 No.8 and made to sit in the Police Jeep and then, they all

went to the police station. He and PW-1 went to the Police

Station by walk. After he reached the Police Station, he

noticed that five persons were lodged in the lock-up of the

Police Station. One person aged 45 to 50 years who was a

bit fat, was made to sit outside the lock-up of the Police

Station. Accused No.12 and Vali Basha were talking with

accused No.8 in the Police Station. At that time, he left

the Police Station. He returned back at about 9.30 p.m.

He found the same persons in the lock up. The person

who was outside the lock up, was not present at that time. (b). Sri.Muddumadaiah, the Inspector of Police in

CCB, recorded his statement. Sri.Vali Basha told him that

he should state before Sri.Muddumadaiah that only five

persons were brought by accused No.8 to the City Market

Police Station even though there were six persons. As per

the directions, he gave a statement to Sri.Muddumadaiah

to the effect that only five persons were brought by

accused No.8 to the City Market Police Station. No 34 mahazar was conducted or drawn on 10.04.1997. During

the cross-examination, he has stated that he has given a

statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., before the

Magistrate, which is in conformity with the statement

made before the Investigation Officer. He admits that he

has stated before the Magistrate that he cannot identify

those five persons who were in the police lockup in the

City Market Police Station at that time. That on the date of

the evidence also, he cannot narrate the names of the five

persons who were found in Hotel Shalimar on that day.

Due to lapse of time, he cannot identify the five persons

who were found in Hotel Shalimar on that day. 5.(a) PW-9, at that relevant point of time was in-

charge of house keeping. Sri.Aslam was working as

Manager of the Hotel on night duty. When the Police came

to the Hotel, Aslam was in Room No.310. The police met

PW-9 in the Hotel. Thereafter, through intercom, he

contacted Sri.Aslam and he came from the room to the

first floor of the hotel. Accused No.8 and Sri.Aslam talked 35 with each other. Accused No.8 after the talks, was angry

with Sri.Aslam. Accused No.8 tried to assault Sri.Aslam by

raising his right hand. But he did not assault Sri.Aslam.

Accused No.8, Vali Basha and members of the Police

Station, raided Room No.104 of Hotel Shalimar. (b). In Paragraphs No.8 and 9 of his evidence, he

has narrated that based on the ledger of the Hotel vide

Ex.P21, six persons were staying in Room Nos.101 and 104. (c). In the cross-examination, he has stated that

four rooms were allotted to eight persons on 11.04.1997.

Sri.Rahim Bhai checked into Room Nos.101 and 104 on

01.04.1997. In the cross-examination, he has stated that

there is no entry against the date 10.04.1997 to the effect

that Sri.Rahim Bhai and five others were in the above two

rooms. 6. PW-11 sells vegetables on the footpath, in

front of City Market, Bengaluru, since the last two decades. 36 He has stated that the Police Station is about 100 feet

away from the place where he sells vegetables. About four

or five years prior to the date of the incident, the Police

came to his place in civil dress. They asked him to come

to the City Market Police Station. The Police told him to

sign on some papers in the Police Station. At that time, he

asked the Police as to why he should sign the papers. At

that time also, the Police told him to simply sign on the

papers. He do not know the contents of the said

document. In the cross-examination, he has narrated that

he can read and write in Kannada and English. 7.(a) DW-1 is a fruit merchant. He was examined at

the instance of accused No.8. The witness has stated that

on 10.04.1997, while he was doing his business in City

Market, he was called to the Police Station. He went to the

City Market Police Station at about 8.00 p.m. Accused

No.8 and one Kalegowda also came to the said Police

Station subsequently. Accused No.8 informed him to 37 follow him to the nearby Shalimar Hotel. He, Kalegowda

and Accused No.8 proceeded towards Shalimar Hotel and

on the way, one Venkatesh, a Police official, also joined

them. In all, five police officials along with two persons, as

private persons, proceeded towards Shalimar Hotel. After

reaching the Hotel, the police officials knocked on the door

of Room No.104 on the first floor. The inhabitants of the

said room did not open the door even after knocking the

door on two occasions. Thereafter, on the third knock with

force, they opened the door. After opening the door,

accused No.8 and other police officials went inside the

room. In the said room, they found in all five persons and

also three to four suitcases. On opening the suitcases,

stamps, rubberstamps and stamp papers were found.

They also found cash of Rs.26,000/- in one of the

suitcases. The witness could not identify what is the

quantity of small stamps found in the suitcases but states

that there were bulky bundles of small adhesive stamps.

Thereafter, accused No.8 called one Venkataswamy, ASI to 38 write the mahazar. The mahazar was written by the said

Venkataswamy at the dictation of accused No.8. Accused

No.8 read over the contents of the mahazar by describing

the 24 items of property seized and also the seizure of

cash of Rs.26,000/-. Thereafter, they have signed the

mahazar. One Kalegowda, present at that time, also

signed the mahazar. Accused No.8 also signed the

mahazar. PW-1, namely, the scribe of the mahazar also

signed the same. He identifies the signature of ASI,

Sri.Venkataswamy at Ex.P1(a) and so also the signatures

of accused No.8 and Kalegowda. He identifies the property

seized under the said mahazar at Room No.104 of

Shalimar lodge. He can identify the five persons found in

Room No.104 of Shalimar lodge. Accused Nos.1, 3, 4 and

5 were produced through video conference. Accused No.2

was present in the Court. The witness identifies all the five

accused. (b). The witness was cross-examined by the

learned counsels for accused Nos.5 and 10. Nothing 39 worthwhile was elicited in the cross-examination. In the

cross-examination by the CBI, he has denied the

suggestion that he and PW-11 Kalegowda signed Ex.P1,

the mahazar, at City Market Police Station and not at Hotel

Shalimar as deposed in the examination-in-chief. He also

denied the suggestion that he did not visit Room No.104 at

Hotel Shalimar. He also denies the suggestion that he did

not see accused Nos.1 to 5 at that place. 8. We have considered the evidences at length.

PW-1 has clearly narrated with regard to the manner in

which the arrest and the seizure took place. That five to

six persons were arrested from Hotel Shalimar and taken

to the police station. The mahazar was dictated to him by

Accused No.8. He has signed it. Accused No.8 has also

signed to the Mahazar, Exhibit-P1. There were five persons

in the lock-up; one person was outside the lock-up. He

was not well. In terms of seizure at MO-1 to MO-65 and

MO-93 to 113, material objects were seized in terms as 40 narrated in Exhibit-P1. The stamps were sent to the

Security Press at Nasik. They were all found to be fake

stamps. The fact that the stamps have been proved to be

counterfeit or fake is not seriously contested by the

appellants counsel. 9. The evidence of PW-2 is also on the same

lines. He has also identified 5-6 persons who were locked-

up and one person who was slightly stout, who was

outside the lock-up and Accused No.12 and Vali Basha was

talking to accused No.8 in the Police Station. That he has

given his statement under Section-164 of Cr.P.C. before

the Magistrate, which is in conformity of the statement

made before the Investigating Officer. 10. PW-11 who is a Vegetable Vendor, has stated

that he was one of the witnesses to the Mahazar at

Exhibit-P1. He has signed Exhibit-P1. However, he narrates

that the Police asked him to sign on the paper. That he

does not know the contents of the paper. 11.(a) The primary contention of the accused is

based on the statement made by PW-1, in his cross-

examination at Para-82. Therein, PW-1 stated that if the

accused are shown to him at that point of time, he would

not be able to identify the accused. Therefore, it is

contended that when PW-1 is unable to identify the

accused, the question of accepting his evidence would not

arise for consideration. It is herein that the entire

arguments of the appellant's counsel rests on. (b). PW-1 is examined and cross-examined at length

and the evidence runs to almost 35 pages. He has clearly

narrated in the examination-in-chief, with regard to the

identification of these accused and the manner in which

they were arrested. The trial court on considering the

statement made by him was of the view that a stray

sentence of PW-1, cannot be relied upon to disprove the

case of the prosecution. The material on record would also

indicate that after the arrest of accused Nos. 1 to 5, they 42 were produced before the Magistrate on 11.04.1997.

Therefore, it cannot be said that there is any dispute so far

as identification of these accused are concerned. Firstly is

the fact that the evidence of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-11 are

consistent with regard to the identification of these

accused and secondly, the fact that the accused were

produced before the Magistrate. Therefore, their identity

cannot be disputed. 12.(a) The further contention is that, there is a

discrepancy as to where, the Mahazar, Exhibit-P1 was

drawn. That PW-1 has stated that Exhibit-P1 was drawn in

the Police Station. However, the evidence of DW-1 was to

the effect that it was drawn in Hotel Shalimar. Therefore, it

is contended that there is inconsistency in the evidence.

Therefore, this goes to the root of the case. (b). Having considered the contentions, we are of

the view that this contention cannot be accepted. There is

consistent evidence led-in by the prosecution to show that 43 the accused were arrested at the Hotel and all the seizures

were made from them from the Hotel itself. Therefore,

even if there is a minor inconsistency as to whether the

mahazar was drawn in the hotel or in the police station,

would be inconsequential. It would really not affect the

case of the prosecution, as to where the mahazar was

drawn. 13. What is relevant and important is the fact of

the arrest and the seizure of huge material objects. When

the evidence with regard to these two issues are clear and

cogent, the contention of the appellants on that front,

therefore cannot be accepted. 14. It is relevant to note that PW-1 is the Police

Inspector. It is not in dispute that the Mahazar, Exhibit-P1

was written by him under the dictation of accused No.8. At

that time, accused no.8 was the Investigating Officer.

Therefore, the oral evidence with regard to the issues at

large would have to be appropriately and rightly answered 44 by accused no.8 himself, because he was the Investigating

Officer. However, as narrated herein above, the

investigation having been taken over by the CBI, the

Investigating Officer was subsequently arrayed as accused

No.8. Having been arrayed as accused No.8, there is no

evidence forthcoming, with regard to the issue at large.

Therefore, based on the evidence of PW-1, we are of the

view that such a contention of the appellant cannot be

accepted. 15. It cannot be lost sight of the fact that even

though contentions were being advanced with regard to

the acceptance of the evidence of PW-1, the fact is that

PW-1 is a person, who only wrote down the Mahazar,

Exhibit-P1, on the dictation of Accused No.8. At the most,

he can be considered as a Scribe of the Mahazar. Under

these circumstances, the evidence of PW-1 would

necessarily have to be considered in that background. 45 16. Accused No. 8 has led-in the evidence of DW-

1, who is a fruit merchant. He is one of the witnesses to

Exhibit-P1. He was informed by accused No.8 to act as a

witness to the mahazar. He has narrated the evidence as

stated by PW-1 with regard to the arrest as well as the

seizure. That the mahazar was signed by PW-1, accused

No.8 as well as himself. He identifies properties seized

under the mahazar. He has identified accused Nos.1, 3, 4

and 5, who were produced through video conference and

accused no.2 who was present in the Court. He has denied

the suggestion that the mahazar was drawn in the Police

Station and not at Hotel Shalimar. 17. The counsel for accused Nos.1 to 5 and 10 have also cross-examined DW-1. The counsel for CBI

therefore contends that this evidence is sufficient to uphold

the conviction against the accused. That the evidence of

DW-1 clearly implicates the accused / appellants. 46 18.(a) On the other hand, Sri.Sashidhar,

learned counsel for the appellants disputes the same. He

contends that the evidence that has been led-in, is on

behalf of accused No.8. Therefore, the evidence of DW-1 is

to be considered only so far as accused no.8 is concerned.

Such an evidence cannot be relied upon in order to

implicate the other accused. He therefore contends that

the incriminating material as stated by DW-1 has not been

put to him by the court in the statement under Section-

313 of Cr.P.C. Therefore, he had no opportunity to answer

the same. Therefore, such an incriminating material cannot

be held against him. (b). On the contrary, the learned counsel for CBI

relies on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

reported in 2015 (1) SCC 496, in the case of NAR SINGH

VS. STATE OF HARYANA , wherein the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held that merely because the incriminating material

has not been put to the accused in terms of Section-313 of

Cr.P.C., that ground alone would not constitute a ground 47 to hold that the entire trial stands vitiated. That such

incriminating material can be put to the accused, either by

remanding the matter to the trial court or to question his

counsel appearing before the High Court or the appellate

court. The Hon'ble Supreme Court went at length in

discussing the issue of omission of the court to put

question to the accused on any vital piece of evidence. The

Hon'ble Supreme Court listed the courses available to the

appellate court when a plea of omission to put a question

to the accused on a vital piece of evidence is raised in the

appellate court. The relevant paragraphs of the aforesaid

judgment reads as follows: (c). Following the aforesaid judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court, we placed the said evidence for

consideration of the appellants counsel and for his reply.

He has replied to the evidence of DW-1 as follows: 19.(a) On the other hand, learned Spl.P.P.,

disputes the same. He submits that the prosecution has

proved its is case beyond all reasonable doubt and the

conviction is not based on the statements of the accused

made under Section- 313 of Cr.P.C. That the right of the

accused has not been affected and there is no failure of

justice. (b). In support of his contention, he relies on the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in (2002)

1 SCC 351, in the case of MUNSHI PRASAD AND OTHERS

VS. STATE OF BIHAR , with reference to para - 3, to

contend that the credibility and trustworthiness of the

defence witness should be treated at par with that of the

prosecution witnesses. That the defence witnesses cannot

be treated differently from the prosecution witness. 20.(a) The first ground is that the incriminating

material as stated in the evidence of DW-1 has been

stated for the first time by the said witness. This 53 contention cannot be accepted, in view of the fact that the

question of the witness stating for the first time or not, is

irrelevant. It was for the first time that the witness was

being examined. Therefore, the question whether the

statements have been made for the first time or not

becomes irrelevant. (b). The second ground that the evidence is

inconsistent with the statements of fact, made by the

prosecution witnesses, cannot be accepted. The question

of inconsistency with the statements of the prosecution

witnesses and that of DW-1, is a matter of merit, which

has been discussed at length herein above. (c). The further contention that the statements of

DW-1 has to be considered only so far as accused No.8 is

concerned and not with reference to the other accused is

also misconceived. The Court would consider every piece

of evidence that is led-in either by the prosecution or by 54 the defence. Truth may arise from the evidence of the

prosecution witnesses or from the evidence of the defence

witnesses. Therefore, to state that the evidence is

relatable only to the person who has rendered it therefore,

cannot be accepted. (d). The further contention that the evidence of

DW-1 is false, is again a matter of appreciation of

evidence. MAHARASHTRA is concerned, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

held that it is well settled that the defence taken by one

accused cannot in law be treated as evidence against the

co-accused. The question of treating the evidence of DW-1

against the other appellants, is not being considered as a

evidence against the other accused. The evidence as led-in

by the prosecution is being considered in order to ascertain

whether the prosecution has proved its case beyond 55 reasonable doubt. Therefore, the evidence of the

prosecution alone is being considered. The conviction of

the accused therefore is not solely based on the evidence

of DW-1 alone. Therefore , the said judgment would not

come to the aid of the accused. (d). Reliance placed in the case of the JARNAIL

SINGH 's case is also misplaced. Infact the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held in para-8 of the aforesaid judgment as

follows: In the instant case also, DW-1 was cross-examined

by the Public Prosecutor as well as by the other accused.

Therefore, the relevancy or worth of the said witness

would not alter with regard to the admissibility of the

evidence. Therefore , the said judgment in fact, would

assist the prosecution and not the accused. (e). So far as the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court reported in (2015) 4 SCC 739 in the case of NAGARAJ VS. STATE REPRESENTED BY INSPECTOR OF

POLICE, SALEM TOWN, TAMIL NADU is concerned, there is

no dispute with the same. No adverse inference could be

drawn with regard to what the accused has stated or not

stated in his statement under Section-313 of Cr.P.C. We

are in complete agreement with the said principle as

enunciated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. However, we

are of the view that the said judgment would not aid the

accused in view of the fact that no adverse inference is 57 being drawn against the accused. Therefore , the said

judgment would also be of no avail to the accused. (f). Further reliance is placed on the judgment of

the Hon'ble Allahabad High Court reported in LAWS (ALL)

1949 58, in the case of CHANNU LAL VS. REX , with

reference to para - 21, wherein it was held that new

evidence should be recorded to give an opportunity to the

accused. We are of the view that the said judgment would

not be applicable in view of the judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court reported in the case of NAR SINGH VS.

STATE OF HARYANA . Therefore, the judgment is of no avail

to the accused . (g). The learned Spl.P.P., relies on the judgment in

the case of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in (2002)

1 SCC 351, in the case of MUNSHI PRASAD AND OTHERS

VS. STATE OF BIHAR , with reference to para-3, to contend

that the evidence of defence witnesses cannot be

differentiated and treated different from that of the 58 prosecution witness. In the said judgment , the Hon'ble

Supreme Court went to hold in para-3 as follows: 21. On considering the contentions and the

judgments relied upon, we are of the view that based on

the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of NAR SINGH VS. STATE OF HARYANA , the question of

remand would not arise. Therefore, the said question was

put to the learned counsel and he has answered to the 59 same. The appreciation of the said evidence is at the

discretion of the Court. 22. The evidence of DW-1 is not being considered

to prove the guilt against the accused. The evidence led-in

by the prosecution alone is being considered to test the

case of the prosecution. The infirmity in the evidence of

the witnesses is of no consequence in proving the case of

the prosecution. The accused having cross-examined

DW-1, would therefore be covered by the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in JARNAIL SINGH'S case.

Therefore, the fact would indicate that the incriminating

evidence was well within the knowledge of the accused. It

cannot be said that it is being considered behind his back,

in view of the fact that the accused has cross-examined

the witnesses. Therefore, that ground alone would seal the

case of the accused. 23. On considering the evidence and on

reappreciating the entire material and evidence on record, 60 we do not find any error committed by the trial court that

calls for any interference. The trial court has rightly and

justly considered the evidence and material on record.

Each one of the evidence as led-in by the prosecution has

been meticulously considered by the trial court. We do not

find any perversity, either in the appreciation of the

evidence or in reconsidering the material on record. Under

these circumstances, we do not find any merit in these

appeals. Consequently, the appeals being devoid of merit

require to be dismissed. 24.(a) With regard to the sentences imposed by

the trial court, the appellants' counsel submits that a

lenient view may be taken. The learned Special Public

Prosecutor disputes the same. He contends that in the

given facts and circumstances of the case, the highest

sentences should have been awarded. However, the trial

court has taken an extremely lenient view. Therefore, no

interference is called for. (b). Considering the entire material, the magnitude

of the fraud and the manner in which the entire fraud has

been committed, we are of the considered view that the

sentence awarded by the trial court does not call for any

interference. It is just and appropriate. Consequently, the

appeals being devoid of merit are dismissed. 25. The judgment of conviction dated 15.4.2009,

and order on Sentence dated 17.4.2009, passed in

S.C.NO.105 of 2005 by the court of Special Judge,

Addl.City Civil and Sessions Judge, (Special Court),

Bengaluru are confirmed so far as, these appellants are

concerned. 26. The appellants are directed to serve the

remaining period of the sentence. The bail bonds are

cancelled. Sureties are discharged. II. CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.414 OF 2009: This appeal is by accused No.9 Sri Abdul Kareem

Ladsab Telgi. 2. The prosecution relies on the evidence of PW-

4, PW-18 and PW-32 to bring home the guilt of this

appellant. It is the case of the prosecution that this

appellant was the king pin of the infamous "Telgi Stamp

Paper Scam". The entire scam involved almost a sum of

(Rs.25,000/- Crores). In the various cases that were

initiated against this appellant and others, the appellant

was the main accused, who was instrumental in the entire

scam. 3.(a) PW-4 was an employee of M/s. Citizen

Enterprises. He has stated that after completing his

education, he was searching for a job. M/s. Citizen

Enterprises, Bengaluru, had called for the post of 'Sales

Executives". He applied for the same. He received a 63 telegram from the above concern, asking him to attend the

interview. Accused No.9 conducted the interview. He was

appointed on a salary of Rs.2,000/- p.m. and Rs.20/- as

daily allowance. He was asked to attend the office in due

course. He joined the office after two or three days. He

was given training, by Sri.Sudarshan, who was a senior in

the firm. He was taken to banks, share brokers, companies

etc., He was trained for one week. Accused No.6 and

accused No.10 were managing the affairs of the said

concern. He used to collect the orders for sale of stamps.

He used to see accused No.6 in the office everyday.

Accused No.9 was coming to the office once a week. After

obtaining orders, the stamp papers were delivered by the

staff of the concern, to the customers. Accused Nos.7, 10

and 6 were managing the affairs of the concern. Accused

No.7 had given a copy of the stamp vending licence, which

was standing in his name. Even though the accused was

coming to the office, he was not speaking to him. Many

persons were appointed in the Jayanagar Office of M/s. 64 Citizen Enterprises. In para 75 of his cross-examination, he

has stated that it is true that he did not state before the

Investigating Officer of CBI of the fact that accused No.7

gave him the xerox copy of stamp vending licence for the

purpose of his file or record. It is true to state that he did

not state before the Investigating Officer that accused

No.7 was managing the affairs of the stamp vending

concern. (b). PW-18 is a Fruit vendor at Khanapur. He has

stated that accused No.9 was his neighbour. That while at

Bombay, he applied for a job with Abdul Kareem Lal Telgi

at Bombay. He worked there for one year. He knows Irfan

Telgi, Azeem Telgi, Mallesh Dulanavar and Riyaz Mokashi

who are from Khanapur. They were all working in the office

of Abdul Kareem Telgi at Mumbai. Accused No.9 Telgi, is

the owner of M/s. Metro Exports at Mumbai. They were

dealing in the sale of stamps and stamp papers. Accused

No.9 was running M/s. Citizen Enterprises at Bangalore.

That this witness came to the Bengaluru office from the 65 Bombay office. Accused No.9 started working at M/s.

Citizen Enterprises at Bangalore. He was packing the

stamps in covers. He stayed in Hotel Shalimar along with

Rahim Telgi-accused No.6, Sri.Mallesh, Shri. Ilyas and Sri.

Ibrahim Hudli @ Sadiq Ibrahim Hudli-accused No.5. That

he identifies accused No.7 Shri. Syed Mohiddin, who had a

stamp-vending licence. The business was being run by

accused No.7. Accused Nos.1, 2, 3, 5 and 7 were working

in M/s. Citizen Enterprises, Bangalore. They had joined one

month prior to accused No.9 joining M/s. Citizen

Enterprises at Bangalore. Accused No.9 was managing the

above concern while he was at Mumbai, through his

brother accused No.6, Sri Rahim Telgi. The cheques

collected by them from the customers were given to Rahim

Telgi-accused No.6. He states that he was building a house

at Khanapur and as he required money, he asked accused

No.9 to give him money. That as accused No.9 did not give

him money, he left working in the concern of accused

No.9. (c). PW-32 is another person, who applied on the

basis of a paper advertisement for the post of 'Executive'

in M/s. Citizen Enterprises, Jayangara, Bangalore. He went

to the office of M/s. Citizen Enterprises and found accused

Nos.6 and 9 in the office. He filled the application for the

post of Executive. He submitted his Bio-data. He was

appointed. Accused No.9 was the Boss of M/s. Citizen

Enterprises, Bengaluru. Accused Nos.5 and 6 always used

to be in the office. Accused No.9 used to visit the office

once a week. Branches were opened in the names of

M/s.Citizen Enterprises at Brigade Garden, Brigade Road,

Bengaluru. Rahim Telgi was incharge of that office also. He

has narrated the manner in which the business was

operated by accused Nos.6 and 9. That orders were

procured and had to be delivered to various customers.

Cheques that were received were being handed over to

accused No.6. Accused No.7 used to be in the office. Xerox

copy of the stamp licence was given to all the Marketing

Executives of the concern. Accused No.7 was not talking to 67 this witness. After this witness came to know that the

concern was dealing with sale of fake stamps, he met

accused No.7 in his house. He came to know that accused

no.7 would arrange sending people to Haj. He told accused

No.7 that the concern is dealing with fake stamps and that

he would file a complaint and see that the concerned

persons were arrested. Accused No.7 told him that he is

not involved in the matter and he does not know anything.

He once again told him that he would file a complaint

against accused No.9 and 6. Accused No.7 told him to do

whatever he wants. He has further stated that accused

No.7 or accused No.8 might have told accused No.9 with

regard to the complaint filed by him against accused No.9.

That accused No.7 had stated that he had a threat to his

life. Accused No.7 told him that if he files a complaint

before the police, he would support him. Accused No.7 told

him that he had a threat from accused No.9 and because

of that, he had suffered health problems. That he would

indirectly support him, if the complaint was filed. 68 4. On considering the evidence and the material

on record, the trial court was of the view that the

prosecution has established its case beyond reasonable

doubt. We have considered the evidence at length. The

witnesses have clearly narrated that this appellant Accused

No.9 was the man, who was instrumental in running the

entire business. He had an office at Mumbai. Thereafter,

he opened an office in Bengaluru and subsequently various

offices were opened in Bengaluru City. That he was

running the business. He was instrumental in arranging for

the customers and also for the production, preparation and

distribution of stamp papers. The witnesses have stated

that the stamp papers were received by courier from the

Bombay to Bengaluru office from accused No.9 and

thereafter the same were being sold to local customers. In

the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, they have

clearly narrated the distinct role played, so far as this

appellant is concerned. So far as this appellant is

concerned, the evidence is clear and unshaken. The 69 prosecution witnesses have narrated the role of the

appellant/accused No.9 in the stamp paper racket. The

production, sale, distribution, receipt of money, acquisition

of properties, opening of bank accounts have all been

stated without any hesitation by the witnesses. None of

the statements made by the witnesses have been seriously

challenged in the cross-examination of the

appellant/accused No.9. In view of the overwhelming

evidence against this accused, we noticed that there is no

real or serious challenge by the appellant. It would appear

to be a token resistance. 5. The trial court on considering such evidence

was of the view that since there is nothing to disbelieve

the statement of the witnesses, so far as this appellant is

concerned, accepted the same. The evidence with regard

to the manufacture, sale, distribution of stamp papers and

other material have been proved beyond reasonable doubt

by the prosecution. We do not find any good ground to

interfere in the well considered order of the trial court. The 70 trial court so far as this appellant is concerned, has relied

on the exhaustive evidence led-in by the prosecution.

There is no reason to disagree with the reasons assigned

by the trial court. 6. Consequently, the appeal being devoid of merit

is dismissed. The judgment of conviction dated 15th April

2009 and the order of sentence dated 17.4.2009 passed

by the Special Judge, 35th Addl. City Civil & Sessions

Judge(Special Court), Bengaluru, in S.C.No.105 of 2005,

so far as this appellant is concerned, is affirmed.

III. CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.360 OF 2009: 2.(a) The appellants counsel submits that it would

not be necessary to consider the evidence of each one of

the witnesses. So far as the present accused is concerned 71 the evidence that is relatable to him is that of PW-3, PW-4,

PW-5, PW-10, PW-18, PW-32 and PW-33. Therefore, he

has addressed arguments based on the evidence of these

witnesses. (b). PW-3 is the owner of a printing press situated

at Bengaluru. He has stated in his evidence that he was

examined by one Sri Bhadrinath, the Investigating Officer

of STAMP IT, at that point of time. He was shown the

photograph of Syed Mohiyuddhin, namely the

accused/appellant in this case. He has stated it is the

photograph of Munavar. Later on, he came to know that

Syed Mohiuddin, namely the accused herein, had wrongly

stated his name to be Munavar. However, the face is one

and the same. In 1997, the appellant came to his printing

press and asked him to print the word "Karnataka" in

Kannada language on small stamps which he had brought

to his press. He was told by accused No.7 that the stamps

were brought from Maharashtra to Bengaluru and if the 72 word 'Karnataka' is printed, he would be saving 2% of the

commission, which he was required to pay to Maharashtra.

Accused No.7 would bring plastic pouches containing small

stamps of 10 or 15 sheets for the purpose of printing. He

used to pay Rs.100/- per pouch as printing charges.

Accused No.7 also brought to his press typed/letters of the

word 'Karnataka" in Kannada. He was doing the said

printing for four to five months. The accused was visiting

his press once a fortnight, sometimes once a month.

Accused No.7 introduced him to accused No.10. He can

identify him. Accused No.10 was also coming to his press. (c). PW-4 was an employee of M/s. Citizen

Enterprises. He has stated that after completing his

education, he was searching for a job. M/s. Citizen

Enterprises, Bengaluru, had called for the post of 'Sales

Executives". He applied for the same. He received a

telegram from the above concern, asking him to attend the

interview. Accused No.9 conducted the interview. He was 73 appointed on a salary of Rs.2,000/- p.m. and Rs.20/- as

daily allowance. He was asked to attend the office in due

course. He joined the office after two or three days. He

was given training by one Sri.Sudarshan, who was a senior

in the firm. He was taken to banks, share brokers,

companies etc., He was trained for one week. Accused

No.6 and accused No.10 were managing the affairs of the

said concern. He used to collect the orders for sale of

stamps. He used to see accused No.6 in the office

everyday. Accused No.9 was coming to the office once in a

week. After obtaining the orders, the stamp papers were

delivered by the staff of the concern, to the customers.

Accused Nos.7, 10 and 6 were managing the affairs of

stamp vending concern. Accused No.7 had given the copy

of the stamp vending licence, which was standing in his

name. Even though the accused was coming to the office,

he was not speaking to him. Many persons were appointed

in the Jayanagar Office of M/s. Citizen Enterprises. In para 74 75 of his cross-examination, he has stated that it is true

that he did not state before the Investigating Officer of CBI

of the fact that accused No.7 gave him the xerox copy of

stamp vending licence for the purpose of his file or record.

It is true to state that he did not state before the

Investigating Officer that accused No.7 was managing the

affairs of the stamp vending concern. (d). PW-5, the Manager of The Indian Bank,

Bengaluru, states that M/s. Citizen Enterprises, Bengaluru

sold fake stamps vide MOs.66 to 70 for a consideration of

Rs.1,30,625/- out of which, stamps worth Rs.1,27,480/-

were fake. The bank also placed an order in terms of Ex-

P11 to Ex-P14 for supply of Special Adhesive stamps and

accordingly M/s. Citizen Enterprises, Bengaluru supplied

the same, for which, payments were made through

cheques vide Ex-P16 to Ex-P18 in favour of M/s. Citizen

Enterprises. The deposit of the cheques in terms of Ex-P16

to Ex-P18 have been admitted in the statement of accused 75 No.7 under Section-313 of Cr.P.C. MOs 66 to 70 on being

forwarded to the India Security Press, Nasik were found to

be fake as per report Exhibit-P119 in the evidence of PW-

20 Shashikanth Barde, who was the Works Manager of

India Security Press, Nasik. That on 06.09.1996, stamps

worth Rs.29,886/- were sold to M/s.Fanuc India Private

Limited, Bengaluru, as per invoice No.1488 knowing that

the stamps were counterfeit. Therefore, all these evidences

would clearly indicate that fake stamps were being sold

and transacted by accused No.7. The stamps were sold to

various persons. All of them have deposed against accused

No.7. The report of the India Security Press, Nasik also

indicates that most of the stamps sent to them were fake. (e). The evidence of PW-10, who is the owner of

the property in question, narrates that the property was

leased in favour of accused No.7. It was in that property,

accused No.7 was running his business. It was rented

to M/s. Citizen Enterprises for Rs.9,750/- p.m. with an 76 advance of Rs.1,17,000/-. The rent agreement was

executed in terms of Ex-P23. (f). PW-18 is a Fruit vendor at Khanapur. He has

stated that accused No.9 was his neighbour. That while at

Bombay, he applied for a job with Abdul Kareem Lal Telgi

at Bombay. He worked there for one year. He knows Irfan

Telgi, Azeem Telgi, Mallesh Dulanavar and Riyaz Mokashi

who are from Khanapur. They were all working in the office

of Abdul Kareem Telgi at Mumbai. Accused No.9 Telgi, is

the owner of M/s. Metro Exports at Mumbai. They were

dealing in the sale of stamps and stamp papers. Accused

No.9 was running M/s. Citizen Enterprises at Bengaluru.

That this witness came to the Bengaluru office from the

Bombay office. Accused No.9 started working at M/s.

Citizen Enterprises at Bengaluru. He was packing the

stamps in covers. He stayed in Hotel Shalimar along with

Rahim Telgi-accused No.6,Sri. Mallesh, Shri. Ilyas and Sri.

Ibrahim Hudli @ Sadiq Ibrahim Hudli - accused No.5. That 77 he identified accused No.7 Shri. Syed Mohiddin, who had a

stamp-vending licence. The business was being run by

accused No.7. Accused Nos.1, 2, 3, 5 and 7 were working

in M/s. Citizen Enterprises, Bangalore. They had joined one

month prior to accused No.9 joining M/s. Citizen

Enterprises at Bangalore. Accused No.9 was managing the

above concern while he was at Mumbai, through his

brother accused No.6 Sri Rahim Telgi. The cheques

collected by them from the customers were given to Rahim

Telgi-accused No.6. He states that he was building a house

at Khanapur and as he required money, he asked accused

No.9 to give money. That as accused No.9 did not give him

money, he left working in the concern of accused No.9. (g). PW-32 is also a person, who applied on

the basis of a paper advertisement for the post

of 'Executive' in M/s. Citizen Enterprises,

Jayangara, Bangalore. He went to the office

M/s. Citizen Enterprises and found accused Nos.6 and

9 in the office. He filled the application for the post of 78 Executive. He submitted his Bio-data. He was appointed.

Accused No.9 was the Boss of M/s. Citizen Enterprises,

Bengaluru. Accused Nos.5 and 6 always used to be in the

office. Accused No.9 used to visit the office once a week.

Branches were open in the names of M/s. Citizen

Enterprises at Brigade Garden, Brigade Road, Bengaluru.

Rahim Telgi was incharge of that office also. He has

narrated the manner in which the business was operated

by accused Nos.6 and 9. That orders were procured and

had to be delivered to various customers. Cheques that

were received were being handed over to accused No.6.

Accused No.7 used to be in the office. Xerox copy of the

stamp licence was given to all the Marketing Executives of

the concern. Accused No.7 was not talking to with this

witness. After this witness came to know that the concern

was dealing with sale of fake stamps, he met accused No.7

in his house. He came to know that accused no.7 would

arrange sending people to Haj. He told accused No.7 that 79 the concern is dealing with fake stamps and that he would

file a complaint and see that the concerned persons were

arrested. Accused No.7 told him that he is not involved in

the matter and he does not know anything. He once again

told that he would file a complaint against accused No.9

and 6. Accused No.7 told him to do whatever he wants. He

has further stated that accused No.7 or accused No.8

might have told accused No.9 with regard to the complaint

filed by him against accused No.9. That accused No.7 had

stated that he had a threat to his life. Accused No.7 told

him that if he files a complaint before the police, he would

support him. Accused No.7 told him that he had a threat

from accused No.9 and because of that, he had suffered

health problems. That he would indirectly support him if

the complaint was filed. (h). PW-33 is the Police Inspector of CBI, who

conducted the entire investigation. He recorded the

evidence of the witnesses. Accused No.7 was arrested by 80 this witness and he seized the licence standing in the name

of accused No.7. The evidence would clearly indicate that

the stamp vending licence stood in the name of this

accused. That, he was doing the business. That there were

various persons working in M/s. Citizen Enterprises. The

lease rent agreement was in the name of accused No.7,

which is marked as Ex-P.23. The premises was in his

name. The licence was in his name. The business was

being done in his name. Banks accounts were also

standing in his name. On examining the licence, the same

was in his personal name and for the purpose of selling

only the specific variety of stamps. However, stamps that

were being sold were of all kinds. The letter offering sale of

all types of stamps from prospective customers vide

Exihibit-P10, indicates that the stamps were being offered

for sale at no extra cost. Therefore, there is clear evidence

to show that all these stamps were being sold by

accused No.7 beyond his licence. They were stamps that 81 were manufactured. The stamps that were sent to India

Security Press at Nasik and the report submitted would

indicate that most stamps were counterfeit and only some

were genuine. The evidence of PW-3 would indicate that

this accused went to him in order to print. Accused No.7

brought him small stamps and asked him to print the word

'Karnataka" on the stamps. The printing of the word on the

stamps or otherwise were done individually. It was being

illegally printed by PW-3 at the behest of accused No.7.

The stamps seized in 308 challans in Ex-P211 and Ex-212

were not supported by any licence. Even though the

witness was cross-examined at length, nothing worthwhile

has been extracted in the cross-examination to disbelieve

his evidence. 3. The contention of this appellant is that the

moment he suspected foul play, he left the job. He did not

pursue it. It is his case that he supported the prosecution

for the said offences. However, the material on record 82 would indicate otherwise. It is his case that he came to

know that accused Nos.6 and 9 were dealing in fake

stamps sometime in December 1996. The licence expired

in March 1997. He got it extended for a further period upto

March 1998. Even after he made the statement of foul

play, in December 1996 he renewed the licence upto

March 1998. If his statement was true and is to be

accepted, then there was no reason to renew the licence.

He should not have got it renewed. Therefore, his

statement of foul play and leaving the job cannot be

accepted. Further, the premises in which the business was

being run, continued to stand in his name. He did not shut

down the operations. The operations in selling fake stamps

continued even after the so-called statement made by this

accused in December 1996. Therefore, the plea that he left

the business immediately on coming to know of the same,

runs contrary to the evidence on record. He has extended

his licence even after he came to know of the fraud.

He has continued in the premises enabling the illegal acts 83 being committed even after he came to know of the fraud.

Therefore, the contention that he has supported the

prosecution after he came to know of the fraud runs

contrary to the evidence on record. There is substantial

evidence to indicate that the business was being run in

connivance with accused No.6 as well as accused No.9.

The evidence of the witnesses establish the same. The

evidence is sufficient so far as this accused is concerned, in

order to bring home the charge of the prosecution, that

the accused was dealing in fake and counterfeit stamps. 4. On considering the evidence and the material

on record, the trial court came to the conclusion that

accused No.7 is guilty of the charges levelled against him.

The reasons assigned by the trial court are just and

proper. We do not find any error or perversity in the

findings recorded by the trial court. The findings and 84 reasons assigned by the trial court being just and proper,

we do not find any good ground to interfere with the same. 5. On sentence, the learned counsel for the

appellant submits that the appellant is aged 72 years and

hence, a lenient view may be taken. The same is opposed

by the learned Spl.PP. 6. On hearing learned counsels, we find that the

magnitude of the crime is almost to the extent of Rupees

Twenty Five Thousand Crores. The prosecution has proved

beyond reasonable doubt that this appellant/accused No.7

was involved in the offence charged against him.

Therefore, we find no reason to take a lenient view.

Consequently, the appeal being devoid of merit is

dismissed. The judgment of the trial court is affirmed so

far as this appellant is concerned. The appellant shall serve

out the remaining part of his sentence. It is needless to

state that the appellant/accused is entitled for set off for

the period of custody undergone by him in this case. 85 IV. CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.457 OF 2009: Subsequently, in pursuance to the order passed by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in writ petition No.522 of 2003

dated 15-3-2004 and the subsequent Government of India

Notification dated 23-3-2004 the further investigation of

Crime No.109 of 1997 of the City Market Police Station

was taken over by the CBI. The further investigation was

conducted by the CBI. In the course of the said

investigation, accused Nos.7 to 12 were added on as

accused. That is how the earlier Investigating Officer,

came to be arrayed as accused No.8. (b). In short, the allegation of the prosecution

against him, is that he aided and assisted the other

accused and has wrongly charged them for a lesser offence

namely, Section 473 read with 34 of IPC . That he has

deliberately not conducted the investigation in an

appropriate manner. That he has not investigated the 87 relevant accused. Therefore, he has committed an offence

punishable under Section 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the

Prevention of Corruption Act. On trial, he has been

acquitted of the offences under Section 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the Act. Therefore, the conviction with which we are

concerned is only for Sections 212 , 217 , 218 , 201 & 221 of

IPC read with section 120(B) of IPC. In support of its

case, the prosecution relied on the evidence of PWs-1, 2,

9, 20, 21, 22, 24, 27, 31 & 33. The appellant relied on the

evidence of DW-1. 3.(a) PW-1 was the Assistant Sub-Inspector of

Police at that point of time. He has stated that on 10-4-

1997, at about 2.00 p.m., the appellant accused No.8

called him in order to go to Hotel Shalimar. As per his

instructions they went to Hotel Shalimar. That accused

No.8 went inside the room Nos.101 and 104. The witness

and others were asked to stand outside. The doors of room

Nos.101 and 104 were opened by the inmates. Accused

Nos.8 and 12 and Sri Vali Basha went inside the above two 88 rooms. The witness and Sri Shivkumar were standing

outside the above two rooms. It was about 3.00 or 4.00

p.m., at that time. After about one or one and a half

hours, accused Nos.8, 12 and Sri Vali Basha brought 5 or 6

persons along with bags from the said rooms. Accused

No.8 directed the witness to come to the police station by

walk. Accused No.8 took those 5 or 6 persons in the

police jeep. The witness wrote down the Mahazar in terms

of Ex.P-1. The same was under the dictation of accused

No.8. The names of the accused persons as shown by

accused No.8 was written by him, as per the instructions of

accused No.8. The persons who were apprehended in

Shalimar Hotel were kept in the police lock up. After 8 to

10 days, accused No.8 gave him 5 or 6 packets containing

the stamps and directed him to go to Nasik along with

Sri Venkatappa, police constable. Accordingly the witness

and Sri Venkatappa, went to the India Security Press,

Nasik. They met the officials and handed over the

packets. The officials opened the same and found the 89 stamps of different denominations in the form of sheets

and loose stamps. In all the 6 packets, there were

1,44,790 stamps. They stated that an examination fee of

Rs.100/- per single stamp or per strip sheet block of

stamps is chargeable and the same is payable in advance

by demand draft favouring the General Manager, India

Security Press. Therefore, they had to deposit a sum of

Rs.14,01,900/- as total examination fee for all the

1,44,790 stamps. The witness had not carried that much

of money. He contacted accused No.8 who told him to

once again contact the officials of the Press. As per the

instructions of accused No.8 he again contacted the

officials. The Officials told him that it is possible that one

sample stamp out of a particular denomination could be

given for the purpose of examination. Thereafter, they

returned to Bengaluru with the above said packets of

stamps. The packets were returned to accused No.8.

Thereafter, accused No.8 gave one packet containing

samples to the witness to be carried to Nasik. The witness 90 and Sri Venkatappa again went to Nasik. The stamps were

given to the officials of the India Security Press and

thereafter they returned to Bengaluru. At this stage, an

objection was raised by the learned Public Prosecutor that

some portion of the statement made by this witness before

the court under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. has been denied.

Hence, this witness was treated as hostile and permitted to

be cross-examined by the CBI. (b). In para-27 of the cross-examination he admits

that along with 5 accused persons one Rahim Lal Telgi,

namely, accused No.6 was also brought from Shalimar

Hotel to the police station. That Rahim Lal Telgi, was made

to sit outside the lockup of the police station. He admits to

the fact that he came to know that during night hours,

some 3 or 4 persons came to the police station and met

accused No.8, Sri Vali Basha, accused No.12 and Head

Constable Sri.Srinivas who conspired together with the

person who came to the police station who gave money

and took Rahim Lal Telgi. This is the statement that he 91 has made before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate also.

He admits that he filed the charge sheet in Crime No.109

of 1997, in terms of the instructions and directions of

Accused No.8. It is in his own handwriting. Accused No.8

has signed the charge sheet. One Rahim Baig was shown

as absconding person. He admits to the fact that as per

the instructions of accused No.8, he wrote the words

"Rahim Baig" as the person absconding in place of the

words "Rahim Lal Telgi". He has further stated that the

sealed covers of the security press were intact. That the

same was delivered to accused No.8. One letter given by

the India Security Press addressed to accused No.8 has

been marked as Ex.P-8. The admit pass issued to admit

the witness was also marked as Ex.P-9. He admits that

the contents of the statements made by him before the

Court under Section 164 Cr.P.C., are true and correct. He

admits to the fact that the Mahazar at Ex.P-1 makes a

mention of 5 persons who were apprehended by accused

No.8 from Hotel Shalimar. 4. PW-2 was the Police Constable in the City

Market police station. He accompanied PW-1 and accused

No.8 to Hotel Shalimar. He has reiterated the evidence as

narrated by PW-1 except by clarifying that there were 5

persons in Room No.104 and one person in Room No.101. 5. PW-9 is the Manager of Hotel Shalimar,

Bengaluru. He has stated in para-7 of his evidence that

room No.101 and 104 were taken on rent by Sri Rahim

Bhai showing the address as Mint Road, Fort,Bombay on

1-4-1997. The Register was marked as Ex.P-21. It is for

the period from 1-4-1997 to 18-7-1997. That in terms of

the relevant entry which is at Ex.P-21(a), it would indicate

that 6 persons had stayed in the above two rooms during

the period in question. That Room Nos. 101 and 104 were

vacated by the lodgers on 11-4-1997 and 15-4-1997

respectively as per Ex.P-21(a). The same is mentioned in

column No.14 of Ex.P-21 and Ex.P-21(a). In the cross-

examination at para-40 he has stated that Rahim Bhai

checked in room Nos.101 and 104 on 1-4-1997. That 93 there is no entry against the date 10-4-1997 to the effect

that Sri.Rahim Bhai and five others were in the above two

rooms. 6. PW-20 was serving as Assistant Works

Manager in the Security Press at Nasik. He retired in the

year 2005. He has stated that he assisted the

Investigation Officer in making the inventory of the stamps

which were collected by the Investigating Officer in the

case. His superior had directed him and his colleague PW-

22, to go the office of the Central Bureau of Investigation

and assist the Investigation Officer. The inventory was

prepared which bears his signature and marked as Ex.P24

and his signature at Ex.P24(c). He assisted the

Investigating Officer in distinguishing the stamps of the

different denomination. On 13.9.2004, the officer received

various documents and stamps from SP, CBI, ACB,

Bengaluru and he took the matter for examination and

gave his report on 17.9.2004. The covering letter is

marked as Ex.P119 and his signature as Exhibit-P119(b-1). 94 After examination of the stamps, the same were put in

separate covers and sealed. They were sent to the office of

the CBI. He states that Sl.No.1-Q-12208 to 115318

referred by him at Sl.No.1 of Ex.P.119(b) are sheets of

Insurance Stamps. Fourteen sheets of Insurance Stamps

of face value of Rs.500/- bearing Q-12208 to 12213,

115312 to 115318 are marked as M.O.No.80. The two

sheets are marked as M.O.81 bearing No.Q-12204 and

12206 and sheets bearing Q-12205 and 12207 are

marked as M.O.81(a). They are forged. He identifies

special adhesive stamps of face value of Rs.100/- bearing

Q-12204. He identifies foreign bill stamp sheets of

Rs.100/- bearing Q-11826 to 11857. The above stamps

are forged. The said stamps are marked as M.O.No.83. He

identifies the special adhesive stamp sheets of Rs.50/-

bearing Q-11024, 11025, 11028, 11029, 11035, 11039,

11043, 11049, 11050, 11066, 11076, 11085, 11091,

11101, 11104, 11122, 11123, 11143, 11146 and 11159 to

11731. The said stamps are forged. The same are 95 marked as M.O.No.84. He identifies special adhesive

stamps of face value of Rs.20/- bearing Q-11475 to 11530

and Q-11074. Out of the above stamps, sheets of stamps

bearing Q-11475 to 11530 are forged. The said sheets of

stamps are marked as M.O.No.85. Sheet of stamp paper

containing Q-11074 are genuine. The same is marked as

M.O.No.85(a). He identifies the share transfer stamps of

face value of Rs.10/- bearing Q-11302, 11305 and 29

other sheets. All the stamps in the said cover are genuine.

The stamps are marked as M.O.No.86. He identifies the

stamps at Sl.No.8 of my report at Ex.P119(b). The same

are marked as M.O.No.87. The said stamps are genuine.

He identifies Sl.No.9 of Ex.P.119(b). The said stamps are

marked as M.O.No.88. The said stamps are genuine. He

identifies Sl.No.10 of Ex.P.119(b). The said stamps are

marked as M.O.No.89. The said stamps are genuine. He

identifies Sl.No.11 of Ex.P.119(b). The said stamps are

genuine. The same is marked as M.O.No.90. The said

stamps are genuine. He identifies stamps at Sl.No.12 to 17 96 of Ex.P.119(b) which are enclosed in one common cover

bearing M.O.Nos.67 to 70 of stamps at Q-15000 to Q-

15020. He identifies stamps at M.O.No.66 to 70. He

identifies Q-15000 at M.O.No.66. The stamps are genuine.

He identifies Q-15001 at M.O.No.67. Stamp of face value

of Rs.500/- and Rs.100/- on M.O.No.67 are forged.

Stamps of Rs.20/- and Rs.5/- on M.O.No.67 are genuine.

He identifies M.O.No.68 i.e., Q-15002, 15003, 15004(a)

and (b) to 15010. Q-15002, 15003 and 15004. All

stamps appearing on M.O.No.68 are forged. He identifies

M.O.No.69, which contains Q-15005 to Q-15008 (a) and (b). The said stamps on M.O.No.69 are forged. He

identifies M.O.No.70 containing Q-15009 and 15010. The

stamps on the above M.O.No.70 are forged. Stamps

bearing Q-15011 to 15020 are not forthcoming from the

cover marked as M.O.No.60 to 70. He examined the

stamps at Sl.No.15011 to Q-15020. The said stamps are

genuine. He identifies his report at Ex.P.119(b). The

contents of the same are true and correct. After 97 examining M.O.No.80, 81, 81(a), 82 to 85, 85(a), 86 to 90

and 66 to 70, he signed on all the sheets of stamp papers

and of single loose stamps sent to me for examination. The

Non-judicial stamps of Rs.20,000/-, Rs.5,000/-, Rs.2,000/-

, Rs.100/- and Rs.50/- at Sl.No.17 of Ex.P.119 (b) are not

forthcoming from the cover. He examined the said stamps

at Sl.No.17 of Ex.P.119(b) and gave opinion to the effect

that the said stamps are genuine. Nothing worthwhile is

elicited in his cross examination to disbelieve his

statement. 7. PW-21 was working as PSI- Law and order in

the City Market of Police Station from 20.5.2002 to

20.5.2006. He has stated that his superior by name Sri

C.Siddaramaiah, Police Inspector of Market Police Station

directed him to file an application under Section 173 (8) of

Cr.P.C. in Crime No.109 of 1997 before 9th ACMM

Bengaluru. Accordingly, he had filed an application before

the court on 29.5.2002. The document is marked as Ex.C1

and his signature as Exhibit-C1(a). Nothing worthwhile is 98 elicited in his cross examination to disbelieve his

statement. 8. PW-22, was working as Supervisor in India

Security Press, Nasik road since 1996. That on 9.6.2004

he had come to Bengaluru with Sri Shashikanth Barde, and

went to the office of CBI. He was shown some sealed

packets containing stamps. He identified the seals of his

office on the envelopes. The envelopes was opened before

him. He prepared the inventory before the office of the

CBI. Exhibit-P24 which bears his signature has Ex.P24(c) .

The work of inventory continued on 11.6.2004, 14.06.2004

and 15.6.20004. Exhibit-P24 to P28 bears his signatures.

He signed at the bottom of the pages. Nothing worthwhile

is elicited in his cross examination to disbelieve his

statement. 9. PW-24 worked as Under Secretary, Home

Department-Services, Bengaluru from May 2005 till 2007.

He worked as a Under Secretary Crimes in the Post of

Inspector of Police Department which comes under Home 99 Department. He had signed the sanction order to

prosecute accused No.8 who was holding the post of

Assistant Commissioner of Police as on the date of the

issuance of sanction order in the name of Governor of

Karnataka. He has signed on all the sheets. The sanction

order to prosecute A-8 is marked as Ex.P.121. He

identifies his signature on the last page of Ex.P.121. The

same is marked as Ex.P.121(a). The CBI sought for

permission to prosecute A-8. The CBI had sent to him the

copies of FIR. Statements of witnesses for the prosecution

recorded by investigating agencies and other records for

the purpose of grant of sanction. He went through the

records submitted by the CBI and submitted the report to

his Higher Officer, namely, the Deputy Secretary.

Thereafter, the file was processed by the Deputy Secretary

and was sent to the Principal Secretary of Home

Department. Thereafter, the file was processed by the

Prinicipal Secretary and was sent to the Home Minister. As

on the date of grant of sanction the Home Minister was 100 Shri Dharam Singh. Shri Dharam Singh was the Chief

Minister and was holding the portfolio of Home Department

also. Nothing worthwhile is elicited in his cross

examination to disbelieve his statement. 10. PW-27 was the Assistant Commissioner of

Police, Bengaluru city. He has stated that Chickpet Sub-

Division comes within the jurisdiction of Kalasipalyam

police station. That if the SHO of a police station registers

a case pertaining to some other police station, the SHO

should transfer the records to the jurisdictional police

station for the purposes of investigation. The same must

be intimated to the jurisdictional police station. That

accused No.8 did not submit the transfer note, to transfer

the case from City Market police station to Kalasipalyam

police station. That he did not receive any note from

accused No.8 to continue the investigation. In para - 6 of

the cross-examination, he has stated that the

Investigating Officer did not collect the copy of the area

map of the Chickpet Sub-Division from him. That the 101 normal practice is that the Investigating Officer would

place the file before the Assistant Director of Prosecution

along with the final charge-sheet. Once the investigation is

over, it is the Assistant Director, prosecution who

scrutinizes the records and the charge-sheet and

thereafter the Investigating Officer would place the

charge-sheet before the concerned Court through the

Public Prosecutor. That he did not inform in writing asking

accused No.8 not to investigate the matter pertaining to

Hotel Shalimar. 11. PW-31 was the Deputy Superintendent of

Police, Vigilance, BESCOM, Bengaluru. He took up further

investigation on 13-10-2003 from Shri E.A.Baig, Police

Inspector of CCB, Bengaluru. He recorded the statement

of PW-9. On 16-1-2004, he went to Shalimar Hotel along

with PSI, Shri Muralidhar Rao and seized two arrival and

departure Registers of the lodge at Exs.P-21 and P-22

under the Mahazar Ex.P-195. 12. PW-33 was the police Inspector in CBI, ACB,

Bengaluru. In terms of the order of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in writ petition (Civil) No.522 of 2003 dated

15-3-2004, the CBI took up further investigation. He has

stated that Crime No.109 of 1997 of City Market Police

Station, Bengaluru was registered by the CBI under Sections 255 , 256 , 471 , 472 , 468 and 420 of IPC on

23-3-2004. On 26-6-2004, he sought permission of the

Court, for return of rubber seals, articles etc., as well as

Material Objects 1 to 29, 30 to 34, 35 to 39, 40, 41 to 48,

49 to 62, 63 to 65. He recorded the statement of PW-11

on 29-4-2004. He deputed the officials of the India

Security Press to Bengaluru, to identify the contents of

the packets. Since M.Os contained the seal of the India

Security Press, he requested the officials to come over to

Bengaluru to help and identify the contents of the packets.

Accordingly, PWs.20 & 22 came to Bengaluru. He recorded

the statements of PWs.4,5,6,7,8 & 27. The officials of the

India Security press identified the packets. Since PWs.20 & 103 22 confirmed that the stamps were not subjected to

opinion, he took samples of the stamps from each of the

packets by opening the packets in the presence of

PWs.12, CW-23 and 24. The stamps were put in separate

covers and the covers were closed and sealed. They were

marked as M.Os 80 to 90. They were sent to the India

Security Press, Nasik for examination as per the letter at

Ex.P-35. The cover marked as M.Os 70 to 79 were sent

to the Director, Government Printing Press, Bengaluru, for

examination and report, as per the letter Ex.P.34. On

17-9-2004 information was received from the India

Security Press vide letter Ex.P-119. On 13-9-2004, the

information from the Government Printing Press was

received vide Ex.P-35. The records were sent to the

Government of Karnataka seeking permission to prosecute

accused No.8. Sanction order under Section 197 of Cr.P.C.

at Ex.P-121 was received from the Government of

Karnataka against accused No.8. He also forwarded the

reports and documents to prosecute accused No.12 under 104 Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. It was

subsequently received in terms of Ex.P-120. On 4-12-2004

he filed the first charge sheet against accused Nos.7 & 8

before the I Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

Bengaluru under Sections 255 , 256 , 258 , 259 , 260 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 201 , 212 , 217 , 218 and 221 of IPC read

with Section 13(1)(d) and Section 13(2) of the Prevention

of Corruption Act. Accused No.8 was arrested on

7-7-2004. Since he had collected some more material, a

supplementary charge sheet was filed on 31-12-2005

against accused Nos. 1 to 5 and against accused Nos. 9 to 12. He collected Exhibits-P-203 to 205, namely, cash

memos of M/s.Citizen Enterprises. 13. Based on these evidences the trial Court was

of the view that the accused is guilty of the offences

punishable under Sections 212 , 217 , 220 and 221 of the

IPC. It was of the view that the accused had filed the

charge sheet against accused Nos. 1 to 6 for a lesser

offence when they were liable to be charge sheeted for 105 various other offences also. That this act was done by him

in order to help these accused. That he has wrongly

assumed jurisdiction which did not vest in him. He could

not have investigated the case beyond his jurisdiction.

Therefore, he was charged for the offences as aforesaid.

As stated hereinabove, the accused has been acquitted of

the offences under Section 13(1)(d) and 13(2)(d) of the

Prevention of Corruption Act. Therefore, we have not

referred to the evidence touching upon the said Sections.

We are only concerned with the offences under Sections

212, 217,218,201 and 221 read with Section 120-B of IPC. 14.(a) The first contention of the prosecution is that

the accused did not have territorial jurisdiction to

investigate the matter. That Hotel Shalimar came within

the jurisdiction of the City Market police station. Therefore,

even though he conducted the raid, he should have

immediately transferred the case onto the Kalasipalyam

police station. However, the material on record would

indicate that the charge sheet was submitted to his higher 106 officers before it was filed. It was initially submitted to the

Assistant Director of Prosecutions. The evidence of PW-1

and PW-27 are therefore relevant to consider the question

of jurisdiction. (b). PW-27 as narrated herein was the Assistant

Commissioner of Police. In para-6 of the cross-examination

he has stated that the Investigating Officer did not collect

the copy of the area map of Chickpet Sub-Division from

him. He further states that the Investigation Officer of the

case, would place the file before the Assistant Director of

Prosecutions along with the final charge sheet once the

investigation is over. The Assistant Director of

Prosecutions scrutinizes the records and the charge sheet

and thereafter the Investigating Officer of the case would

place the charge sheet before the concerned Court through

the Public Prosecutor. (c). PW-1 in his cross-examination at para-62 has

stated that he is the one who wrote the charge sheet at

Ex.P-6. This is the charge sheet filed by accused No.8 107 before the Court. It is not the charge sheet filed in the

instant case while conducting the trial. Therefore, the

same was marked as Exhibit P-6. The witness has stated

that the charge sheet was sent to the Assistant Director of

Prosecution. It was scrutinized by him. After scrutiny, the

same was submitted to the concerned Court through the

APP. In the crime report submitted to the Assistant

Commissioner of Police for every month, there would be a

mention of the filing of the charge sheets filed by the

concerned Investigating Officers before the concerned

Court. But the copy of the charge sheet would not be sent

to the Assistant Commissioner of Police. Ex.P-7, PF Form,

was received by the concerned Magistrate on 11-4-1997.

It is true that Ex.P-7 makes a mention of Rs.26,000/- in

cash being seized by the Investigating Officer. Ex.P-1

Panchanama also makes a mention of the seizure of cash

of Rs.26,000/-. (d). The material on record would therefore

indicate, that there was no deliberate action on the part of 108 accused No.8 to assume jurisdiction that he did not have.

PW-27 who was the Assistant Commissioner of Police has

stated in the cross-examination that there was no

clarification as to which jurisdiction Hotel Shalimar came

under. That the area map of the Chickpet Sub-Division

was not collected by the concerned accused No.8.

Therefore, there was no clarity as to which police station,

the said Hotel came under. Therefore, it is reasonable to

presume that accused No.8 bonafide proceeded with the

investigation with the right earnestness. After completing

the investigation, the same was submitted to the Assistant

Director of Prosecutions who was expected to find out

whether the charge sheet is in order including the question

of jurisdiction. However, there was no error of jurisdiction

as noticed by the Assistant Director of Prosecutions. He

has accepted the investigation. So far as the power of the

Investigating Officer is concerned, if at all there was any

error in the jurisdiction of the Investigating Officer, who

conducted the investigation, the Assistant Director of 109 Prosecutions would have stated so. Infact one of the

reasons, why the charge sheet is submitted to the

Assistant Director of Prosecutions is to find out whether

the technicalities and the requirements of law have been

complied with. The trial court while considering the said

issue at para-52 of the Judgment was of the view that the

evidence of PW-27 is not sufficient to prove that Hotel

Shalimar comes within the jurisdiction of Kalasipalyam

police station and not within the jurisdiction of City Market

police station. Therefore, the trial court itself was in doubt

with regard to the jurisdiction of the concerned officer.

Under these circumstances, especially when the ADP has

certified that the charge sheet has met the requirements of

law, we are of the view that such a ground would not be

available to the prosecution. Therefore, the allegation of

lack of territorial jurisdiction is not acceptable. 15.(a) The second contention of the prosecution

is that accused No.8 committed acts of omission and

commission in order to help accused No.6 to get away 110 from the clutches of law. That the FIR was registered only

against 5 persons. That the evidence of PWs-1, 2 and 9

would indicate that 6 persons were arrested in Hotel

Shalimar. They were all taken from Hotel Shalimar to the

police station. Thereafter, the case of the CBI is that there

was a conspiracy between accused Nos. 8, 12 and Vali

Basha as a result of which accused No.6 was let off. (b). The allegation of the CBI on this issue is ill-

founded. It is a fact that the FIR was lodged against

accused Nos. 1 to 5. Thereafter, accused No.8 took up

further investigation of the case. In the course of the

investigation, various material were unearthed, which

involved accused No.6. Therefore, when he filed the

charge sheet in terms of Ex.P-6, accused No.6 was arrayed

as an accused. If the contention of the CBI were to be

accepted, there was no reason for accused No.8 to charge

sheet accused No.6 also. He could very well have avoided

him, especially when his name was not shown in the FIR.

The charge-sheet that has been filed by accused No.8 is as 111 a consequence to the investigation made by him.

Therefore, the theory of conspiracy as set out by the

prosecution runs contrary to the material on record. 16.(a) The next contention is that, even though

there was substantial material against the accused, they

have been charge sheeted only for the offence under Section 473 of the Indian Penal Code. That based on the

investigation, the accused were liable to be charged for

various other offences which accused No.8 deliberately did

not file against them. (b). Such a contention runs contrary to the

evidence of PW-21 and the evidence of the officers of the

India Security Press namely, PWs-20 and 22. Ex.P-3 is the

letter written by accused No.8 to the Officers at the India

Security Press, Nasik. Ex.P-3 relates to the earlier

communication dated 19-5-1997 issued by the Security

Press to the Investigating Officer. Ex.P-8 is dated

19-5-1997. A reading of the letter would indicate that a

sum of Rs.14,01,900/- had to be deposited in order to 112 examine the stamps as sent to them. Therefore, the

entire bulk of the stamps namely, about 1,44,790 stamps

in 6 packets were all sent to the Security Press at Nasik.

Thereafter, a reading of the letter in terms of Ex.P-3

would indicate that one stamp from each of the sheets

may be given for purposes of verification which in effect

would reduce the amount to be paid to the India Security

Press. Whether the stamps were found to be genuine or

otherwise is a secondary question. The charge by the CBI

is that all the stamps were not sent to the security press.

The same stands negated by Exs.P-8 and P-3. Ex.P-8 is

marked in the evidence of PW-1. They have very clearly

stated that all the stamps that were seized were sent to

Security Press at Nasik to be verified. If the contention of

the prosecution were to be accepted, there was absolutely

no necessity for the accused to send the entire 6 packets

in all about 1,44,790 stamps to the Security Press. If

there was a theory of conspiracy, then only some of these

stamps would be sent. Furthermore, the officials of the 113 Security Press have themselves intimated to accused No.8,

to send one stamp from each sheet to them, for purposes

of verification, since the same would reduce the amount to

be paid. Therefore, it cannot be said that there was any

conspiracy hatched by accused No.8 in order to defend the

accused or to charge them for a lesser offence. Therefore,

this contention of the prosecution, stands negated by the

evidence of PWs-1 and 27 in terms of Ex.P-8 & P-3. (c). Furthermore, after the individual stamps were

given to the Security Press they submitted a report in

terms of Ex.P-2, dated 22-1-2007 which is marked in the

evidence of PW-1. The said report would indicate that all

the stamps sent to them are genuine stamps. The stamps

that were sent by accused No.8 to the Security Press, have

been sent to them at the specific request of the Security

Press Officials themselves. It is not that the accused

identified the stamps and thereafter sent it to the Security

Press. Therefore, the question of he not implicating the

remaining accused, therefore would not arise for 114 consideration. It is only thereafter by paying the full

amount, by the CBI, all the stamps were sent to the

Security Press at Nasik. Thereafter the report was obtained

on 17-9-2004. It is on receipt of this report that in the

charge sheet filed by the CBI, the other accused were

added. It is also relevant to notice here that accused Nos.

1 to 5, 7, 9 & 10 were acquitted for the offence under

Sections 465, 467 and 471. Accused No.11 and accused

Nos.1, 2 & 3 were acquitted for the offence under Section

212, 217, 201, 221 and also under Section 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Therefore,

when the other accused were added on by the prosecution

subsequent to Ex.P-6, no charge sheet would be

sustainable against accused No.8. If at all there was any

charge accused No.8, in the given circumstances of the

case, it would probably attract Section 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. However, the

appellant accused No.8, has been acquitted of the said

offences. Since the CBI has not filed any appeal against 115 him for the said offences, the question of looking into the

material for the said offences would not arise for

consideration. 17. There is no evidence placed on record by the

CBI, to show that the accused inserted genuine stamps

and sent them to the India Security Press. It is only an

allegation that has remained as such without any evidence.

There is also no evidence to show that some of the stamps

were inserted by removing counterfeit stamps by replacing

them with genuine stamps. Only because, Accused No.8

did not mention the details of the stamps seized, cannot

be sufficient, to hold any criminal conspiracy or intention

against him. 18. DW-1 has been examined on behalf of accused

No.8. He was a vegetable Merchant. He was one of

witnesses to Ex.P-1. DW-1 supports the case of the

accused No.8. Nothing worthwhile has been elicited in the 116 cross-examination by the CBI on the genuineness of the

evidence of DW-1. 19. Therefore, we are of the view that the trial

court was at a tangent in convicting accused No.8. It has

wrongly appreciated the material on record. There is no

case made out against accused No.8 for the offences

punishable under Sections 212 , 217 , 218 , 201 & 221 of

IPC. The trial court in our considered view, committed a

perversity in misreading the material evidence on record,

in convicting Accused No.8 for the offences punishable

under Sections 212 , 217 , 218 , 201 & 221 of IPC read with Section 120(B) of IPC. 20. For the aforesaid reasons, the appeal requires

to be allowed by acquitting the appellant/accused No.8 of

the charges under Sections 212 , 217 , 218 , 201 & 221 of

IPC read with section 120(B) of IPC. 21. In view of the foregoing reasons with reference

to the aforesaid appeals, the appeals are disposed off as

follows:- The Judgment of conviction dated 15.04.2009 and

sentence dated 17.04.2009 passed by the Special Judge,

35th Additional City Civil & Sessions Judge, (Special Court),

Court Complex, Bengaluru in S.C.NO: 105 of 2005, so far

as these appellants/accused are concerned, are confirmed. All the pending I.As stand rejected, so far as

Criminal Appeal No.414 of 2009 is concerned. b). Criminal Appeal No.457 of 2009 filed by

appellant/accused No.8 is allowed. The Judgment of

conviction dated 15.04.2009 and sentence dated

17.04.2009 passed by the Special Judge, 35th Additional

City Civil and Sessions Judge, (Special Court), Bengaluru, 118 is set aside so far as appellant/accused No.8 is concerned.

He is acquitted of all the charges levelled against him. The bail bonds stands cancelled. Sureties are

discharged. The fine amount said to have been deposited

by the appellant/accused No.8 before the trial Court is

directed to be released in his favour.