JASPREET KAUR GAMBHIR @ JESS BOBBY
 R/o Clayton Discount Liquor
 129, Carinish Road,
 Clayton VIC, 3168, Australia. Also through : 2. PARAMJEET SINGH GAMBHIR
 R/o Clayton Discount Liquor
 129, Carinish Road,
 Clayton VIC, 3168, Australia. Also through : Page: 3/21
 daughter is 17 years old and a student of 12th class. The plaintiff and
her family members have been enjoying remarkable goodwill and
reputation in the society, their friends circle as well as in the business
fraternity. 2.4. The life of plaintiff has become a living hell due to the acts of
defendants, who are husband and wife and are known to her being
school friends from Harkrishan Public School, Vasant Vihar, Delhi. 2.5. In the year 2015, defendant no.2 came to Delhi for business
purpose and also arranged a get together of all the school friends
including the plaintiff. Thereafter, defendant no.2 started visiting
India and was continuously doing chats through WhatsApp and other
Social Media with the plaintiff and also used to call her and other
friends to meet him on dinner as a social obligation. 2.6. In the month of September / October, 2018, defendant no.2 again
came to Delhi for his business purpose and arranged a dinner party at
Radisson Blue Hotel, Paschim Vihar, New Delhi and invited some of
their friends where he offered the plaintiff some sedative drink and
took her objectionable compromising photographs and videos. 2.7. In the month of January, 2019, defendants called the plaintiff and
told that they had her nude photographs and sex videos and tried to
extort Rs.1,00,00,000/- from her. The defendants threatened that in
case of non-payment, they would upload all the defamatory and
objectionable materials pertaining to the plaintiff on Social Media

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 4/21
 Platform and WhatsApp Group(s) and the same would malign her
reputation in the society. 2.8. On 27.01.2019, the plaintiff became aware that the defendants in
conspiracy with each other uploaded and / or shared her defamatory
materials such as nude videos, nude photos etc on the Social Media
Platforms as well as the WhatsApp Group, as a result of which, not
only her but also her family members goodwill and reputation in the
society got compromised / tarnished as the aforesaid photographs got
circulated amongst their friends and relatives. 2.9. The aforesaid acts, deeds and actions of defendants had caused
loss of goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff and her family
members in the society. 2.10. Thereafter, the plaintiff got issued a legal notice dated
06.02.2019 to the defendants which was replied by the defendants.
Upon this on 11.07.2019, the plaintiff filed a suit for damages,
defamation and permanent injunction against the defendants bearing
CV DJ No.516/2019 titled as "Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur
Gambhir & Anr" wherein vide order dated 28.09.2019 one Pen Drive
containing her objectionable and defamatory videos and photographs
was supplied to the defendants. 2.11. On 16.12.2020, the plaintiff received a call from one of her
friend that defendant no.1 had shared her nude, obscene, objectionable
and defamatory photographs and videos with him and also uploaded

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 5/21
 the same on Social Media Platforms. 2.12. The plaintiff has pleaded that the defendants have tarnished her
reputation / character in the society by circulating her nude pictures
and videos in the public domain. 3. Summons for settlement of the issues of the present suit for
service of defendants were issued on 18.11.2022 and the same
received back duly served on their whatsapp number on 11.04.2023.
However, defendant no.1 and 2 did not file any formal written
statement, accordingly, their defence was struck off and they were
proceeded ex-parte vide order dated 11.07.2023. 4. EX-PARTE PLAINTIFF EVIDENCE AND DOCUMENTS
RELIED UPON. 4.1. In support of her case, plaintiff examined the following
witnesses: PW-1 and PW-2 tendered their evidence affidavits Ex.PW-1/X
and Ex.PW-2/1 respectively in their examination-in-chief. 4.2. PW-1 has deposed that the defendants who were her schoolmates
have disseminated her nude / obscene photographs and videos among
their friends and uploaded on Social Media Platforms as well, thereby
destroying her character / reputation and liable to compensate for the

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 6/21
 damage of reputation suffered by her at their hands. 4.3. In her evidence, PW-1 has relied upon the following documents: B. The screen recording of the e-mail sent by defendant no.1
 Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir stored in a pendrive as Ex.PW-2/B;
C. The color printout of the e-mail received from Jaspreet Kaur
 Gambhir as Ex.PW-2/C (Colly-2 pages); and
D. The certificate under Section 65B of The Indian Evidence Act
 as Ex.PW-2/D.

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 7/21 5. No other witness was examined on behalf of plaintiff.
Accordingly, ex-parte plaintiff evidence was closed. 6. I have heard Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff and have gone through
the material / evidence available on record. 7. At the very outset, the following two fundamental principles of
law needs to be highlighted : 8. It is to be noted that the claim in hand is the second lawsuit /
litigation at the instance of plaintiff wherein damages have been
sought from the defendants upon the premise that they tarnished her
reputation in the estimation of society by disseminating her nude and
obscene photographs in the public domain. 9. The plaintiff has pleaded that prior to the present suit, she filed a
civil suit bearing Civ DJ No.516/2019, titled as Avneet Sethi Vs.
Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir and Anr. against the same defendants seeking
damages to the tune of Rs.1,50,00,000/- for her defamation caused by
the defendants by circulating her nude, obscene photographs and sex
videos among her friends and further uploading the same on Social
Media Platforms. 10. The plaintiff has further pleaded that during the pendency of the
aforesaid civil suit, she supplied a pendrive containing her nude and
obscene photographs to the defendants in terms of the order dated
28.09.2000 passed by the Ld. Judge in the said suit and on 16.12.2020,
she received a call from one of her friend that he had received her
objectionable / defamatory photographs and videos from defendant
no.1 through email. Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 9/21 11. The plaintiff has also pleaded that the defendants have uploaded /
shared her objectionable / obscene photographs and videos on Social
Media Platforms thereby tainting her social reputation / image. 12. Briefly stating, the main plank of the case set up by the plaintiff
is that the defendants have demeaned her character / lowered her
social status in the collective opinion of the society by circulating /
sharing her nude and obscene photographs / videos with one of their
friend having the email id [email protected] and by uploading
the same on Social Media Platforms. 13. It is trite to mention that the reputation of a person is a form of
intangible property, protected by law against any unlawful damage
and the person is entitled to have the same maintained and preserved
intact. 14. Legally speaking, defamation is generally defined as the
publications of some statement / material to a third person that, in all
the circumstances, would be likely to affect a person adversely in the
estimation of reasonable persons generally. 15. In simple words, defamation is an act of harming / lowering the
reputation of a person in the estimation of right thinking members of
the society. 16. In the present case, the plaintiff has pleaded that the defendants

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 10/21
 tarnished her reputation in the society by circulating her nude /
obscene photographs and videos among her friends and further by
uploading them on Social Media Platforms. 17. Generally speaking, in the opinion of this Court, circulating nude
and obscene photographs of a female amongst her family and friends
and further uploading them on Social Media Platform demeans her
character and lowers her reputation in the society at large. 18. But, the germane question which arises at this juncture is as to
whether there is any substance / merit in the allegations levelled by the
plaintiff that her nude and obscene photographs were shared by the
defendants with her friends and uploaded on Social Media Platform. 19. At this stage, it is expedient to highlight the following two
important principles of law which have a direct bearing upon the issue
in hand: Reference can be made to the judgment passed by Hon'ble Apex
 Court in A.B. Govardhan Vs. P.Ragothaman, Civil Appeal no.9975-76 of 2024. (ii) The burden of proving the facts rests on the party who
 substantially asserts the affirmative issues and not on the party
 who denies it. In other words, a person who asserts a particular
 fact is required to affirmatively establish it. Reference can be
 made to the judgment passed by Hon'ble Apex Court in M/s

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 11/21 Gian Chand and Others Vs. Rattan Lal @ Rattan Singh , AIR
 2013 SC 1078. 20. Firstly, the plaintiff has pleaded that the defendants uploaded her
obscene and nude photographs on Social Media Platforms from where
the same were accessed by his friends, family members and other
persons of the society. 21. However, the record of the present case reflects that the plaintiff
has not brought on record even a shred of evidence indicating the
alleged uploading of her nude photographs / videos on any of the
Social Media Platforms. 22. Furthermore, it is to be also noted that the plaintiff has not filed
screenshots of any Social Media Platforms reflecting her nude
photographs, let alone examining any witness who accessed those
photographs on such Social Media Platforms. 23. In view thereof, this Court is of the opinion that in the absence of
any corroborative evidence, there is no merit in the plea of plaintiff
that the defendants uploaded her nude photographs on Social Media
Platforms. 24. Secondly, the plaintiff has pleaded that her nude and obscene
photographs were circulated by the defendants among her friends and
for substantiating the said plea, PW-2 Sh. Prameet Singh Chatwal was
examined, who claimed himself to be the husband of plaintiff's friend

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 12/21
 and a long term acquaintance. 25. PW-2 Sh. Prameet Singh Chatwal deposed that on 16.12.2020,
defendant no.1 Smt. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir sent him the nude pics
and obscene videos of the plaintiff Smt. Avneet Sethi through email as
attachment. 26. For substantiating his aforesaid claim / assertion, PW-2 has
brought on record the pendrive Ex.PW-2/B, colour printout of the
header of the email received from defendant no.1 Smt. Jaspreet Kaur
as Ex.PW-2/C and the supporting certificate under Section 65B Indian
Evidence Act as Ex.PW-2/D. 27. It is to be noted that the pendrive Ex.PW-2/B brought on record
by Sh. Prameet Singh Chatwal only contains video of the screen
recording / digital capture of the screen of mobile phone wherein his
gmail account was opened and it has one email with attachment file in
the name of Avneet pics and videos received from the email id [email protected] . 28. PW-2 has deposed that the aforesaid email id belongs to
defendant no.1 Smt. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir. 29. The important thing is that in the aforesaid video, the attachment
file allegedly sent by defendant no.1 has not been opened /
downloaded and it does not show any obscene / nude photographs of
the plaintiff. Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 13/21 30. So, one thing is clear that the pendrive Ex.PW-2/B does not
establish the averment of PW-2 Sh. Prameet Singh Chatwal regarding
receipt of nude / obscene photographs / videos of plaintiff Smt.
Avneet Sethi through defendant no.1 Smt. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir
through email. 31. Moreover, it is a well settled position of law that for the
admissibility of an electronic record, the same should be supported by
a duly issued certificate under Section 65B Indian Evidence Act and it
is trite to mention that the pendrive Ex.PW-2/B is nothing but an
electronic record. 32. For a better understanding Section 65B Indian Evidence Act is
reproduced hereinbelow: Page: 14/21
 process information for the purposes of any
 activities regularly carried on over that period by
 the person having lawful control over the use of the
 computer; (b) during the said period, information of the kind
 contained in the electronic record or of the kind
 from which the information so contained is derived
 was regularly fed into the computer in the ordinary
 course of the said activities; (c) throughout the material part of the said period, the
 computer was operating properly or, if not, then in
 respect of any period in which it was not operating
 properly or was out of operation during that part of
 the period, was not such as to affect the electronic
 record or the accuracy of its contents; and (d) the information contained in the electronic record
 reproduces or is derived from such information fed
 into the computer in the ordinary course of the said
 activities. (3) Where over any period, the function of storing or
processing information for the purposes of any activities
regularly carried on over that period as mentioned in clause (a)
of sub-section (2) was regularly performed by computers,
whether-- (a) by a combination of computers operating over that
 period; or (b) by different computers operating in succession over
 that period; or (c) by different combinations of computers operating
 in succession over that period; or (d) in any other manner involving the successive
 operation over that period, in whatever order, of
 one or more computers and one or more
 combinations of computers,

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 15/21
 all the computers used for that purpose during that period shall
be treated for the purposes of this section as constituting a single
computer; and references in this section to a computer shall be
construed accordingly. (4) In any proceedings where it is desired to give a statement
in evidence by virtue of this section, a certificate doing any of
the following things, that is to say,-- (a) identifying the electronic record containing the
 statement and describing the manner in which it
 was produced; (b) giving such particulars of any device involved in
 the production of that electronic record as may be
 appropriate for the purpose of showing that the
 electronic record was produced by a computer; (c) dealing with any of the manner to which the
 conditions mentioned in sub-section (2) relate,

and purporting to be signed by a person occupying a responsible
official position in relation to the operation of the relevant device
or the management of the relevant activities (whichever is
appropriate) shall be evidence of any matter stated in the
certificate; and for the purposes of this sub-section it shall be
sufficient for a matter to be stated to the best of the knowledge
and belief of the person stating it. (5) For the purposes of this section,-- (a) information shall be taken to be supplied to a
 computer if it is supplied thereto in any appropriate form
 and whether it is so supplied directly or (with or without
 human intervention) by means of any appropriate
 equipment; (b) whether in the course of activities carried on by any
 official information is supplied with a view to its being
 stored or processed for the purposes of those activities
 by a computer operated otherwise than in the course of
 those activities, that information, if duly supplied to that

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 16/21
 computer, shall be taken to be supplied to it in the course
 of those activities; (c) a computer output shall be taken to have been
 produced by a computer whether it was produced by it
 directly or (with or without human intervention) by
 means of any appropriate equipment." 33. A bare perusal of the aforesaid provision makes it clear that for
the admissibility of an electronic record, the two components
incorporated in Section 65B (2) and Section 65b (4) Indian Evidence
Act should be established / fulfilled. 34. Section 65B (2) Indian Evidence Act provides the substantive
conditions for the device reliability and pertains to the original
computer system from which the secondary evidence was generated
and the process through which the electronic record was created. 35. While Section 65B (4) Indian Evidence Act mandates issuance of
a certificate signed by a person in a responsible position with respect
to the devices referred to in Section 65B (2) and regarding the identity
of the electronic record alongwith describing its production method, if
the same is desired to be used as an evidence in any proceedings. 36. In a nutshell, the certificate under Section 65B Indian Evidence
Act must fulfill the following five conditions: Page: 17/21
 record was produced; (c) The certificate must furnish the particulars of the device involved
 in the production of that record; (d) The certificate must deal with the applicable conditions
 mentioned in the Section 65B (2); and (e) The certificate must be signed by a person occupying the
 responsible official position in relation to the operation of the
 relevant device. 37. When the aforesaid conditions / requisites are seen in
juxtaposition with the contents of the certificate under Section 65B Indian Evidence Act Ex.PW-2/D brought on record by PW-2 Sh.
Prameet Singh Chatwal, it becomes crystal clear that the same is not
in accordance with law since it is completely silent with respect to the
manner and particulars of the devices involved in the production of
the electronic record in question. 38. Hence, it becomes clear that the pendrive Ex.PW-2/B brought on
record by PW-2 in support of the averments made by him in his
testimony is per se inadmissible in law. 39. At this stage, it is apposite to underline that keeping in view the
nature and gravity of the case pleaded by the plaintiff against the
defendants, this Court is not ready to accept / consider the
uncorroborated testimony of the plaintiff witnesses. 40. In light of the foregoing discussion, it is clear that the testimony

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 18/21
 of PW-2 is of no use for corroborating / establishing the case set up by
the plaintiff against the defendants. 41. Now coming to the rest of the evidence / material brought on
record by the plaintiff. 42. The plaintiff has brought on record a pendrive Ex.PW-1/C
allegedly containing her nude and obscene photographs which were
published by the defendants thereby tarnishing her reputation. 43. However, it is a matter of record that the pendrive Ex.PW-1/C is
not accompanied by any certificate under Section 65B Indian
Evidence Act, rendering the same inadmissible in law. Reference can
be made to the judgment passed by Hon'ble Apex Court in Arjun
Panditrao Khotkar Vs. Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal and Ors. , (2020)
7 SCC 1 wherein it was held that in the absence of a certificate under Section 65B Indian Evidence Act, a secondary electronic evidence is
per se inadmissible in law. 44. In view thereof, the pendrive Ex.PW-1/C filed by the plaintiff
cannot be taken into consideration for adjudging the liability of
defendants. 45. In a nutshell, there is not even an iota of legally admissible
material / evidence available on record which could corroborate the
oral testimonies of plaintiff Smt. Avneet Sethi and PW-2 Sh. Prameet
Singh Chatwal that the defendants published the obscene photographs

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 19/21
 of the plaintiff. 46. In light of the entire foregoing discussion, this Court is of the
considered opinion that the plaintiff has failed to establish her alleged
defamation at the hands of the defendants and consequently, her claim
seeking damages to the tune of Rs.1,00,00,000/- from the defendants
stands rejected. 47. Besides the relief seeking damages to the tune of
Rs.1,00,00,000/-, the plaintiff has also sought a decree of permanent
injunction thereby restraining the defendants from circulating any
defamatory material showing her on Social Media Platforms and a
decree of mandatory injunction thereby directing them to publish
written apology in two National Newspapers for circulating
defamatory material regarding her on Social Media Platforms. 48. Firstly, this Court has already arrived at the finding that the
plaintiff has failed to establish that the defendants published any
obscene material pertaining to her either among the friend circle of the
plaintiff or on Social Media Platforms. 49. Secondly, the plaintiff has failed to establish any imminent
apprehension that the defendants are going to publish her nude pics or
even their possession of such material. 50. In view thereof, this Court is of the opinion that the plaintiff has
no cause of action to even seek the relief of permanent injunction

 Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 20/21
 thereby injuncting the defendants from spreading / circulating
defamatory material pertaining to the plaintiff on the Social Media
Platforms or directing them to publish a written apology in two
National Newspapers. 51. In view of the above, the aforesaid reliefs of permanent and
mandatory injunction sought by the plaintiff against the defendants
stands rejected. 52. RELIEF. 52.1. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the suit of the plaintiff
stands dismissed. 53. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 54. File be consigned to record room. MANOJ by Digitally signed MANOJ
 KUMAR
 KUMAR SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 2026.01.29
 16:06:18 +0530

Announced in the open court (MANOJ KUMAR SHARMA)
on 29th January, 2026. DJ-07/WEST/THC/DELHI. Avneet Sethi Vs. Jaspreet Kaur Gambhir @ Jess Bobby & Anr. Page: 21/21