Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been arrested on 20.6.2014 in
connection with Crime No.19/2014 registered with Police
Station S.T.F., Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM
Examination Scam cases - for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120-B of IPC and
Section 3 (Gha) 1, 2/4 of M.P. Recognized Examination Act,
1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is
that of a "middleman". The applicant is alleged to have
arranged an impersonator for the original candidate - Kedar
Tyagi after obtaining an amount of Rs.3,20,000/-. The said
impersonator appeared in place of original candidate - Kedar
Tyagi in the Constable Recruitment Examination 2012
conducted by VYPAM. The applicant for the alleged act had
taken an amount of Rs.3,20,000/- from the original candidate
and out of which he paid Rs.2,70,000/- to co-accused Rinku
Sharma. It is not disputed that all the co-accused persons have
 been arrested. It is stated that the applicant is also involved in one more
case pertaining to Crime No.6/2014 of similar type. Besides
these two offences, the applicant is not involved in any other
offence. It is fairly stated by the learned counsel for the
State, on instructions, that custodial interrogation of the
applicant is no more required. Charge-sheet has also been filed
against the applicant. Further, the investigation against the
applicant is complete in all respects as of now in both the
crimes and, therefore, the presence of applicant is no more
required. In that sense, the link between the applicant and the
co-accused persons is already complete. Besides, the applicant
through counsel undertakes to appear before the Investigating
Officer as and when called for further investigation including
against him as also to punctually appear before the trial Court
to ensure early disposal of the criminal trial. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the
matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the applicant on
following strict conditions:- The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.