/font> 

Title: Regarding alleged scam in Delhi Development Authority (DDA). SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, during the last one year, now and then, through newspaper reports, a very high rocking scam in Delhi, known to be the DDA scam, has been exposed. Not only officials were removed, but no less than a judge of the High Court had to resign because of this. In the primary report it has been brought out the way a sitting judge of the High Court manipulated the judgement in collusion with the interested parties and also had links with the administrative personnel of the DDA. Apart from this, it has been reported in the newspapers that there were other links as well. I would not like to go into that because I do not have authenticated documents with me. Sir, after the scam was exposed, I gave several notices to this effect in this House. The Minister concerned did not come forward to make a statement in the House about the state of affairs in this matter. I was told that just on the eve of the Delhi elections, last week, the main culprit in the case had been singularly reinstated and others have been allowed to go scot-free. The House would like to know as to what is the link and what are the reasons for this? I gave notices on this many times. Today, I have given notice on this subject with the objective that the Urban Development Minister must come to the House and explain as to who are the beneficiaries of this scam. Sir, several lists appeared in the newspapers; several lists appeared in the internet and several names also had figured. I would not like to take any name till I hear the official version of the Government. After this scam came to light, everyone in the country, particularly the Media demanded that the Government should clear its position on this issue. The Government, on all matters, on the insistence and pressure of the opposition comes forward with a statement. But in this case, surreptitiously the Ministry of Urban Development is avoiding the issue and is not coming forward with a comprehensive statement. Sir, I was further told that a few investigating officers, who initiated the process of investigation, of this case has been shifted, transferred and changed. I said the other day, CBI stands for Central Bureau of Investigation. But now the CBI has assumed two connotations for itself. One, if there is involvement of the ruling authority in a case, then the CBI assumes the connotation `Clear Before Investigation’ 

If the involvement is of the Opposition, they will charge it before the investigation. That is how the CBI is working. I demand the Urban Development Minister to state the full facts of the scam to the House including the process of investigation, who began the investigation, who are doing the job and so on. All these details should be spelt out including the link of the former judge of the Delhi High Court, Shri Mukherjee who had to tender his resignation. All these things should be made clear to the House. I demand the Minister for Urban Development to make a statement on this matter. I think he is missing now. Today morning, I drew your attention as today is the Question day for the Urban Development Minister. I gave notice to the Urban Development Minister but he is avoiding it. … (Interruptions) श्री रामजीलाल सुमन : सर, हमारा भी इश्यू लिया जाए।…( व्यवधान)अध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं भी कुछ कहना चाहता हूं।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : नहीं, हरेक को बात नहीं करनी है। …( व्यवधान)