1. The instant petition filed under Article 226 of the

Constitution challenges charge sheet dated 23.2.2007 (P-4) and

show cause notices dated 23.2.2007 and 25.4.2007 (P-5 & P-7

respectively). Further a mandamus has been sought directing the

respondents to accept the joining report of the petitioner in terms

of the order dated 25.4.2007 passed by the Secretary, Education

Department, Punjab-respondent No. 1 (P-8) and to allow her to 2 perform duties of Controller of Examinations, Punjab School

Education Board, Mohali. 2. Facts of the case may first be noticed. The petitioner

has the qualifications of M.A. (English) and LL.B. In 1993 she was

brought on the panel of the Board as a retainer and remained as

such till 28.7.1995, when she was selected and appointed as Legal

Advisor and Law Officer in an open competition in the grade of

Assistant Secretary in the Board in the pay scale of ` 2400-

4000+200 Special Pay. On 9.4.1999, she was promoted as Senior

Legal Advisor and Law Officer in the grade of Deputy Secretary in

the pay scale of ` 12000-15500+1000 Special Allowance. 3. In 2002, the post of Controller of Examination fell

vacant. However, the same could not be filled up due to general

ban on recruitments by the State of Punjab. On 3.10.2002, the

Administrative Department on the request made by the Board

advised that the post could be filled up by direct recruitment after

lifting of the ban. However, in the meanwhile it could appoint

eligible persons on its establishment on the basis of seniority and

merit as Controller of Examination and Director Academic in the

regular pay scale as a stop gap arrangement. It has been

submitted that the following are the minimum educational and

other qualifications prescribed under the Regulations for the post of

Controller of Examination: 4. One Ms. Narinder Kaur was appointed as Controller of

Examination and upon her retirement in 2004 a panel of eligible

candidates was prepared and sent to the Department of Education,

Government of Punjab, which also included the name of Ms.

Pavitter Pal Kaur-respondent No. 4 despite the fact that she was

facing criminal charges in a case FIR No. 12, dated 14.6.2002,

under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B IPC read with Section

13(1) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988,

registered by the Ropar police. Accordingly, the Government

rejected her candidature. Other than this, the candidature of S.

Khushbir Singh, Deputy Secretary was also rejected because he was

ineligible. On 24.6.2004, the Principal Secretary to Government of

Punjab, Department of School Education sent a note to the then

Education Minister and the Chief Minister recommending the name

of the petitioner for appointment as Controller of Examination

because she answered the qualifications and served in the

equivalent grade of Deputy Secretary of the Board for five years

since 9.4.1999. On 27.8.2004, the petitioner was appointed as

Controller of Examination in the grade of ` 14300-20100+1000

Special Allowance as a stop gap arrangement. She worked on the

said post from 27.8.2004 to 6.12.2006 i.e. for about 2½ years and 4 also continued to hold the charge of the post of Senior Legal

Advisor and Law Officer. It is claimed that her work was

appreciated by the Members of the Board for excellent conduct of

Annual Examinations-2005 in a meeting of the Board held on

2.9.2005. 5. At this stage, it would be pertinent to refer to Regulation

16(b) of the Punjab School Education Board Calendar, Volume-II

pertaining to award of grace marks in the Senior Secondary

Examination. Regulation 16(b) reads thus: 6. On 13.12.2004, Shri Bir devinder Singh, who was

Member of the Legislative Assembly, Punjab, during 2002-2007,

presented a 'Call Attention Notice' in the 18th Session of the Punjab

Vidhan Sabha, raising a matter of urgent public importance,

namely, decision of the Punjab School Education Board to grant

grace marks up to 17 to the failed Science students in XII Class

Examinations to raise the pass percentage of the result of the

Education Board. It would be appropriate to read the said 'Call

Attention Notice' and the same is reproduced as under:- Therefore, Smt. Sukhvinder Kaur Saroya, Senior

 Legal Advisor is liable for punishment under the

 Punjab School Education Board Employees

 (Punishment and Appeal) Regulations-1978." 12. It has further been pleaded by the petitioner that on

24.4.2006, in the discharge of functions of Senior Legal advisor she

sent a note inviting the attention of the Chairman to the

observations made by Hon'ble the Supreme Court in the case of

State of Karnataka v. Uma Devi [(2006) 4 SCC 1] on the issue of

regulairsation of services of daily wagers/contract employees. After

citing some old cases of regularisation pertaining to the respondent

Board, she referred to the decision dated 6.1.2006 taken by the

Board to regularise the services of daily water Restorers and opined

that the same would be in violation of decision of Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Uma Devi's case (supra). It was also pointed out by her in

the said note that decision of the Board taken in its meeting held on

28.3.2006 to appoint daily wagers on contract basis would also be

violative of the decisions of Hon'ble the Supreme Court. In the

concluding para she suggested that for the sake of respect and

dignity of the Board it would be imperative to take action as per the

decisions of the Court. She also sent a copy of the said note to the

Deputy Controller, Local Audit with the request that salary should

not be ticked before confirming cases referred to in the said note

from the Head Office. After 10 months of sending the said note, the

Chairman-respondent No. 3 issued a show cause notice dated

23.2.2007 to the petitioner stating that the note dated 24.4.2006

was uncalled for and tantamount to challenging the supreme

authority of the Board and that she deliberately tried to spoil the

atmosphere of the Board (P-5). The show cause notice, which

makes an interesting reading, reads thus: " Deputy Controller, Local Auditor has vide

 Requisition No. 38, dated 25.4.07 (25.4.2006?) brought 12 to the notice of office that you had written to the Audit

at your own level that salary of 41 clerks appointed by

the office might not be ticked. In the matter of decision

taken by the Board in its meeting on 6.1.2006 in respect

of Restorers and in the matter of decision taken by the

Board in its meeting on 28.3.2006 for appointing Daily

Wage Clerks on contract basis, your action to stop Audit

from compliance of decisions of the Board is an act of

very irresponsibility. Decisions of the Board are

decisions taken by the supreme authority of the Board,

and no official/officer has right to raise any ifs and buts

about such decisions. Similarly, your comments on

regularisation of appointments on the basis of a Punjab

Government notification are meaningless because office

has acted as per policy of the Punjab Government, and

before such action by the office, other departments of

the Punjab Government had already implemented this

policy. Your note dated 24.04.2006 to the undersigned is

uncalled for, and tantamount to challenging the supreme

authority of the Board. Decisions taken in the meetings

of the Board are approved after considering all aspects

of cases. Your action without reason to stop Local Audit

from implementing the decisions of the Board

tantamount to interference in the working of the office

and putting spanner in it. You have deliberately tried to

spoil the atmosphere of the Board. As per Rule 7 of the 13 Punjab School Education Board Employees Conduct

Rules: As a consequence of your having sent a letter to

the Deputy Controller Local Audit in violation of

aforesaid Rule, the Audit has sent a requisition against

the Board, and you have thus misused your position and

hurt the honour and dignity of the Board. Letter written to Audit by you tantamount to not

accepting the decision of the supreme authority of the

Board and this action of yours is in violation of Punjab

School Education Board Employees Conduct Rules and

make you liable for disciplinary action. Before disciplinary action is initiated against you as

per rules, you are directed to submit your written

explanation to me within 10 days of issuance of this

notice. In case your answer is not received within the

stipulated period, it will be presumed that you have 14 nothing to say in the matter, strict disciplinary action will

 be taken against you as per rules. This may be treated as most urgent." 13. An interview of the petitioner given to the correspondent

of the newspaper 'Daily Ajit Punjabi' regarding the steps taken by

the Board against cheating, mass copying, other malpractices as

also regarding useful information and tips for students and their

parents was published on 4.3.2007. On 7.3.2007, the Chairman-

respondent No. 3 sought her explanation terming the said interview

as having lowered the reputation of the Board (P-6), which was

followed by a show cause notice dated 25.4.2007 stating that as to

why disciplinary proceedings against her may not be initiated (P-7). 14. On a representation having been made by the petitioner

against the appointment of Shri Avtar Singh as a Controller of

Examination on deputation basis, vide order dated 28.12.2006, the

said orders were withdrawn on 25.4.2007 and she was again given

the temporary charge of the post of Controller of Examination (P-8).

However, the Chairman-respondent No. 3 did not accept the joining

report of the petitioner on the ground that her appointment was not

made by the Board. Rather the Chairman-respondent No. 3 sent a

communication dated 27.4.2007 to the Department of Education,

Punjab, to reconsider the matter because the above mentioned

charge sheet and show cause notices were pending against the

petitioner (P-9). 15. It is in the backdrop of the aforementioned facts and

circumstances that the petitioner has filed the instant petition. It is

also pertinent to notice here that she had also filed another writ

petition bearing CWP No. 3206 of 2007 challenging orders dated 15 31.3.2006 and 31.8.2006 appointing Ms. Pavitter Pal Kaur-

respondent No. 4 as Secretary of the Board on temporary and

regular basis respectively. The learned Single Judge of this Court

vide judgment dated 10.3.2009 quashed her appointment. The

relevant extract of the judgment passed by the learned Single

Judge reads thus: 16. Feeling aggrieved against the judgment dated

10.3.2009, respondent No. 4 preferred an appeal, which has been

dismissed by the Letters Patent Bench vide order dated 7.10.2009.

In paras 25 and 26 of the judgment, Letters Patent Bench observed

as under: 17. It has also been pointed out by the petitioner that in a

scam in recruitment of Clerks in the Board, wherein even the mark

sheets prepared at the time of interview had been interpolated and

cuttings made to give benefit to favoured candidates, this Court

constituted a High Powered Committee consisting of one retired

Judge of this Court and two retired District and Sessions Judges,

who gave a clear finding against respondent No. 4 and indicted her

and others in their report. Other than this an inquiry was also

conducted by the Lokpal Punjab into the selection of Helpers in the

Board where respondent No. 4 was one of the members of the

interview committee. An adverse report against respondent No. 4

was given by the Lokpal although the same was subsequently

stayed by this Court in CWP No. 17428 of 2008, vide order dated

1.10.2008. 18. In the written statement filed on behalf of respondent

No. 2, the above narrated factual position has not been disputed.

However, in respect of issuance of charge sheet it has been

explained that since the petitioner failed to obey the orders and

directions of her superiors, which resulted into delay in declaration

of result and also caused financial loss to the Board, therefore, the

same has rightly been issued. Similarly, the show cause notices

have rightly been issued to her after noticing that the conduct of

the petitioner was not in accordance with the Rules and Regulations

of the Board. She was not to interact with the media without prior

permission of the higher authorities. With respect to the instances 18 of mass copying and cheating in district Gurdaspur, especially in

Kalaswala Khalsa Senior Secondary School, in reply to paras 12 and

13 of the petition on merit, it has been admitted that the

examination of Math paper of 10+2 examination was cancelled on

the basis of the report dated 14.3.2006 sent by Shri Surinder Kumar

Malhotra, Incharge, Flying Squad Team. However, it has been

denied that any direction was issued to the petitioner to prepare a

fresh report regarding the said school. It has been pointed out that

the principal of another school gave in writing to the Chairman-

respondent No. 3 that Shri Surinder Kumar Malhotra has violated

the office instructions and the Centre Superintendent brought it to

the notice of the Principal who with the help of the police and the

members of the Management Committee stopped him. The report

against the school was, therefore, vindictive and on account of

revengeful attitude. On receipt of the letter from the Principal, the

answer sheets were got scrutinised through secrecy branch. After

receipt of the report in a sealed cover, the Chairman took the

decision to uphold the examination dated 14.3.2006 held at

Kalaswala School. It has also been denied that respondent Nos. 3

and 4 have joined hands in harassing the petitioner or that there is

any rivalry. In nut shell it has been urged that the petitioner has

mis-projected the facts. 19. Respondent No. 4 also filed a short written statement

and adopted the reply filed by the Board-respondent No. 2. 20. The most significant feature of this case which deserves

to be highlighted at the outset is that numerous allegations of mala

fide, which have direct bearing on the charges levelled against the

petitioner have been alleged against Prof. Harbans Singh Sidhu, 19 Chairman of the Punjab School Education Board. There are specific

and categorical averments made in paras 13 to 17 against Prof.

Sidhu-respondent No. 3. Despite numerous opportunities having

been granted, Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3 has not controverted

the same. The law in such a situation is well settled. In the case of S. Partap Singh v. State of Punjab,
 Punjab , AIR 1964 SC 72,
 72 the allegation of

mala fide were levelled by a medical doctor, Dr. Partap Singh,

against the then Chief Minister of the State of Punjab. Hon'ble the

Supreme Court has observed that once the allegations are

substantiated then in the absence of rebuttal by a proper affidavit

on the part of the then Chief Minister, it was not possible to brush

aside the allegations of mala fide because those allegations could

have been properly replied only by the respondents. Accordingly,

disciplinary proceedings initiated against Dr. Partap Singh were set

aside on the grounds of express malice or improper motive. The

view of the Constitution Bench in the aforesaid judgment is

discernible from the following para, which reads thus: 21. The real test before branding an act to be malicious,

there has to be cogent evidence available on record to come to the

conclusion as to whether, in fact, there was a bias or mala fide

move which resulted in miscarriage of justice. A malicious act is

equated with intentional act without just cause. Therefore, the test

is as to whether there is a mere apprehension of bias or there is a

real danger of bias. It is on this score that the surrounding

circumstances must and ought to be collated and necessary

conclusion has to be drawn therefrom. The aforesaid observations

have been made by Hon'ble the Supreme Court in the case of State

of Punjab v. V.K. Khanna,
 Khanna , (2001) 2 SCC 330. 22. It is in the backdrop of the aforesaid principles of law, we

now examine the allegations made by the petitioner in various

paragraphs of the petition and its relationship with the charges

levelled against her in the charge sheet and the show cause notices

issued to her. In para 12 of the petition, the petitioner has asserted

that after taking over as Controller of Examinations she had

launched a vigorous campaign against cheating mafia in Board

Examinations, especially at certain notorious examination centres

in district Gurdaspur. Kalaswala Khalsa Senior Secondary School

Kadian, Gurdaspur, was under the vice grip of cheating mafia for

over years and have become notorious for organised mass copying

in the Board Examinations. On account of the campaign launched

by the petitioner, round the clock control room was set up to

monitor cases of organised cheating. On the basis of a report of a

specially constituted flying squad, headed by Shri Surinder Kumar 22 Malhotra (P-2), regarding mass-copying and misbehaviour with the

flying squad team by the school authorities during the examination

conducted on 14.3.2006 at Kalaswala Khalsa Senior Secondary

School Kadian, Gurdaspur, the petitioner cancelled the said

examination along with examinations held on different dates at

certain centres at other places. Taking the remedial measures, the

examination centre at Kalaswala Khalsa Senior Secondary School

Kadian, Gurdaspur along with other delinquent schools were

cancelled permanently. 23. In respect of the aforesaid factual position the petitioner

has levelled specific allegation against Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3

in para 13 of the petition. She has in unmistakable terms alleged

that Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3 told her that Shri Partap Singh

Bajwa, who was then PWD Minister in the State of Punjab, has been

patron of the Kalaswala Khalsa Senior Secondary School Kadian,

Gurdaspur and he was extremely annoyed on account of her action.

Accordingly, she was asked to prepare a fresh report in respect of

the aforesaid school, which she plainly refused. Later on, the issue

concerning cancellation of examination and abolition of centre in

Kalaswala Khalsa Senior Secondary School Kadian, Gurdaspur, for

future Board Examinations was singled out for favour. The answer

sheets were got scrutinised for an eye-wash and later on Prof.

Sidhu-respondent No. 3 passed an order on his own not only

restoring the centre at Kalaswala Khalsa Senior Secondary School

Kadian, Gurdaspur, but also ordered withdrawal of earlier orders

regarding cancellation of examination which were passed by the

petitioner on the basis of the report of Shri Surinder Kumar

Malhotra. 24. The matter did not end there. In para 14 of the petition,

the petitioner has further alleged that when S. Partap Singh Bajwa

got additional portfolio of School Education in September 2006 and

after becoming School Education Minister, he nominated one Shri

M.L. Sharma, Director of the Kalaswala Khalsa Senior Secondary

School Kadian, Gurdaspur, as member of the governing body of the

Punjab School Education Board. Thereafter efforts were made to

create a ground for installing his own man S. Avtar Singh as

Controller of Examinations replacing the petitioner. The allegations

in paras 14 and 15 are aimed at substantiating the allegations

made by her in para 13 that how Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3 was

hand in glove with the then Education Minister. Eventually, S. Avtar

Singh was sent on deputation as Controller of Examinations in her

place on 29.12.2006 despite the fact that Election Code had come

into operation. 25. The petitioner has then levelled allegations in respect of

instructions issued to a Delhi based firm engaged by the Board to

prepare the result of Senior Secondary Examination March-2006. In

that regard paras 17 to 20 of the petition reads as under:- 26. The petitioner has further levelled allegations against

Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3 that he was annoyed by a note

appended by her in her capacity as Senior Legal Adviser inviting the

attention of the Chairman to the judgment of Hon'ble the Supreme

Court rendered in the case of Secretary, State of Karnataka v. Uma

Devi,
Devi, (2006) 4 SCC 1,
 1 in a bid to apprise the legal position. However, she was issued a show cause notice dated 23.2.2007 26 (P-5) in which allegations have been levelled that the note sent by

her was uncalled for and tantamount to challenge the supreme

authority of the Board. The petitioner has claimed in para 23 that

no misconduct could be made out from her note dated 24.4.2006

which may warrant calling for her explanation. The allegations are

specific in nature in para 23, which read thus:- 27. On the question of second show cause notice the

petitioner has asserted that she was asked to explain why she has

highlighted the steps taken by the Board against cheating and

mass-copying and other malpractices and why she has gone to the

Press where she has only given useful information and tips to

students and their parents to ensure that the students perform

better and prepare better, inviting attention of the parents to the

diet of their wards and how to maintain good health. The interview

which is published by the 'Daily Ajit' on 4.3.2007, when translated

into English reads thus: 28. However, Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3 termed the

aforesaid interview as having lowered the reputation of the Board

and called for the explanation of the petitioner, vide show cause

notice dated 7.3.2007 (P-6), which was followed by another show

cause notice dated 25.4.2007 (P-7) as to why disciplinary

proceedings be not initiated against her. She has pointed out in

para 25 that throughout the period from August 27, 2004 till

December 29, 2006, in his capacity as Chairman, Prof. Sidhu-

respondent No. 3 has been referring the Press to the petitioner

regarding conduct of the Board Examinations. Therefore, her

interview to the Press published on 4.3.2007, could not be regarded

as absolutely un-authorised nor there is anything in the aforesaid

interview which may lower the reputation of the Board. 29. The petitioner has also levelled allegations in para 31 of

the petition against Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3 that he concealed

material facts from the Governing Body of the Board and gave Ms.

Pavittar Pal Kaur-respondent No. 4 temporary charge of the post of

Secretary. She was also a candidate for the post of Controller of

Examination but was not considered eligible on the ground being 31 main accused in a criminal case bearing FIR No. 12, dated

14.6.2002, registered by the Vigilance Bureau under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B IPC. She has been facing irregularities

and dishonest interpolations in the marks awarded in the interview

in the recruitment of Clerks. Serious strictures have been passed

against her apart from others by a high powered Committee

headed by Hon'ble Mr. Justice N.K. Agrawal, a former Judge of this

Court, in his report dated 29.9.2003. The selection of 134 Clerks

has already been set aside by this Court on 2.5.2003 while deciding

CWP No. 16002 of 2002. The petitioner has also alleged that Prof.

Sidhu-respondent No. 3 joined hands with M/s Pavittar Pal Kaur-

respondent No. 4 in harassing her. It is in the background of the

aforesaid facts and circumstances the impugned charge sheet

dated 23.2.2007 (P-4) as well as two impugned show cause notices

dated 23.2.2007 and 25.4.2007 (P-5 & P-7 respectively) issued to

the petitioner needs to be examined. 30. The main allegation which permeates all the charges is

that the petitioner has misused her position as Controller of

Examinations by instructing a computer firm at her level to prepare

the result of 10+2 Examination March-2006. This was in

contravention of the orders issued by the office, dated 25.5.2006,

which required her to declare the result with additional grace

marks. She is alleged to have violated Regulation 5(h) of the Punjab

School Education Employees Conduct Regulations, 1978, because

she got the result prepared without additional grace marks. Later

on the Board had to get the result prepared afresh with additional

grace marks, which resulted in loss of `1,60,806/- to the Board. In

the process the result was delayed and the reputation of the Board 32 suffered a set back. She is alleged to have sent leave application

abruptly on 29.5.2006 at critical moment which was again an act of

irresponsibility (P-4 at pages 54-55). 31. In the two show cause notices dated 23.2.2007 (P-5) and

25.4.2007 (P-7), the allegation is that she sent a communication to

the audit that salary of 41 Clerks appointed by the office might not

be ticked. Likewise, her comments on regularisation of

appointments on the basis of Punjab Government notification, has

also been referred to. Her explanation in the second show cause

notice dated 25.4.2007 (P-7) has also been sought with regard to

publication of her interview in the Punjabi 'Daily Ajit', alleging that

she violated Regulation 12(2) of the Punjab School Education Board

Employees Conduct Regulations, 1978. 32. It has also come on record that S. Avtar Singh, who was

appointed as Controller of Examinations on deputation was re-

called by order passed by the Government of Punjab on 25.4.2007

(P-8) and directing the Board to give temporary charge of the post

to the petitioner. She submitted her joining report as Controller of

Examinations on 27.4.2007 (P-9). 33. The issue concerning grace marks has been subject

matter of controversy within the Board. Regulation 16(b) of the of

the Punjab School Education Board Calendar, Volume-II, which has

already been noticed in preceding para 5 above, concerns the

award of grace marks in the Senior Secondary Examination. There

was a 'Call Attention Notice' in the State Assembly where the

attention of the Government was drawn towards the decision taken

by the Board to grant 17 grace marks to the failed science students

in +2 Class Examination in order to raise pass percentage of the 33 result of the Education Board. According to the 'Call Attention

Notice', it reflected declining level of education standard in the

State of Punjab, which caused widespread resentment in the

general public. The notice further point out that the students so

promoted with 17 grace marks would not be able to compete

successfully on merit in the competitive examination and their

future is likely to be blocked. The education system in the schools

is heading towards ultimate collapse and the agency entrusted with

the responsibility of ensuring fairness to conducting and supervising

the examination in the State was facilitating the failed students to

march over the edge of merit of the laborious candidates.

Accordingly, the Minister concerned was asked to make a

statement on the floor of the House. The then Education Minister

alleged to have received report that for quite some time past at the

instance of certain vested interests within and outside the Board

including cheating mafia under the garb of academies assuming

fancy names and styles (Class 9-fail-save-one-year-and-do-10th

directly-type) had been artificially jacking up pass percentages by

award of extra grace marks in addition to what was provided for in

the relevant regulation of the Board. 34. Accordingly, a meeting was held on 23.12.2005

(21.12.2005?) by the then Education Minister which was attended

by Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3 apart from others. The decision

taken with respect to the performance of the Board Examination

was that no grace marks would be allowed except the one provided

in the regulation of the Board. In pursuance of the aforesaid

decision, the Government issued orders vide Memo. No. 5/11/2004- 34 5 Ed.3, dated 28.12.2005, conveying the proceedings of the

meeting held on 23.12.2005 (21.12.2005?) (P-1). 35. It is appropriate to mention that the aforesaid decision

was binding on the Board because Section 21 of the Punjab School

Education Board Act, 1969, was amended vide Amendment Act of

2005, to empower the State Government to call for any information

and to exercise superintendence, direction and control over the

Board and its officers. The Government has also been given the

power to appoint a Committee to inquire into and report on any

policy, administrative, financial or any other matter in the interest

of school education and functioning of the Board. Therefore, there

was no escape but to comply with the directions of the Government

issued on 28.2.2005 (P-1). A perusal of para (xii) of the

proceedings dated 21.12.2005 (P-1) would show that the

Government has decided that no grace marks was to be allowed

except the one provided under the regulations, namely, Regulation

16(b) of the Punjab School Education Board Calendar, Volume-II. 36. Even later on, on 29.9.2006 the Education Secretary,

School Education, sent a letter seeking complete details of grace

marks awarded by the Board in all subjects and the total number of

students appearing in the Board Examinations during last 10 years.

The information was also solicited about the names and the

designation of authorities at whose level such decision is taken.

The letter also reveals that how the Government has seriously

taken the issue of award of grace marks. The petitioner has alleged

in para 32(ii) that she explained to Prof Sidhu-respondent No. 3 in

person twice on 25th and 26th of May, 2006 that the Education

Minister has telephonically reiterated that grace marks except 35 specifically provided for in Regulation 16(b) alone are to be

awarded and he had asked the Principal Secretary, School

Education Board to thoroughly review the powers assumed by the

Board Chairman subsequently by adding new provisions and put up

the case for final decision of the Government. The petitioner is

stated to have apprised Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3 that the

directive issued by the Government has to be complied with as the

Government has statutory power to exercise superintendence,

direction and control over the Board and its officers. On 28.5.2006,

the Education Minister again spoke to the petitioner on phone and

directed that "tell the Chairman that till Government reviewed his

powers to grant additional grace marks, takes a view of the matter,

he should strictly comply with the decision taken by the

Government earlier not to grant such marks". While sending the

file second time to the Chairman, the petitioner personally

conveyed to him the direction issued by the Education Minister.

However, respondent No. 3 remained adamant on awarding

additional three grace marks, which is contrary to the Regulations

and in violation of the decision taken by the Government in the

meeting dated 21.12.2005 and the act of the Chairman is also

under scrutiny of the Government. Therefore, the substance of the

charges levelled against the petitioner in the charge sheet itself

would not be made out. 37. Further the charge sheet has sprung out of the mala fide

of Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3 as the allegations levelled against

him have remained uncontroverted. It has already been noticed in

the preceding paras that if the allegations of mala fide are

substantiated and not controverted by the party against whom such 36 allegations have been made then such allegations are to be

regarded as proved. Moreover, no one else could controvert the

allegations except the party concerned because these are within

the personal knowledge of the respondent. Any affidavit filed by

any other official of the Board would not be regarded as sufficient.

As is revealed by perusing various paras of the writ petition,

including 13 to 23, the allegations, which are within the personal

knowledge of Prof. Sidhu-respondent No. 3, have been levelled

which remained uncontroverted. In these circumstances we are left

with no other option but to quash the impugned charge sheet,

dated 23.2.2007 (P-4) and the show cause notices dated 23.2.2007

(P-5) and 25.4.2007 (P-7), issued to the petitioner. 38. As a sequel to the above discussion, this petition

succeeds. Accordingly, the impugned charge sheet, dated

23.2.2007 (P-4) and the show cause notices dated 23.2.2007 (P-5)

and 25.4.2007 (P-7), issued to the petitioner are hereby quashed. (M.M. KUMAR)
 JUDGE

 (RITU BAHRI)
 BAHRI)
May 27,
 27, 2011 JUDGE
Pkapoor