By this application under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., the petitioner Kajim

Sk. has prayed for quashing of the NDPS Case No. 35 of 2024 corresponding

to GR Case No. 1591 of 2010 arising out of Jalangi Police Station Case No.

308 of 2010 dated 15.05.2010 under Sections 379 / 411 / 413 / 414 of the

Indian Penal Code and Section 27(a)(6)(ii) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act,

pending before the Learned Judge, Special Court under NDPS Act cum-ADJ, 2 2025:CHC-AS:1768

5th Court, Berhampore, Murshidabad including the order dated 02.09.2010

passed by the Learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Murshidabad and all

subsequent orders passed thereto. 2. Mr. Das Mahapatra has submitted that on the basis of a suo moto

complaint of one Sujoy Roy Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police (ASI), Jalangi

Police Station the said case was initiated on the factual aspects that after

receiving a source information Mr. Roy conducted a raid on 15.05.2010 and

thereupon recovered narcotics from one Maruti Car bearing Registration No.

WB 02F/8837. Two accused persons namely Babu Sk @ Abid Hossain and

Ejaharun Mandal were arrested and further on the basis of the statements

of the said accused, the present petitioner was also entangled in the case

although the petitioner was not at all present at the spot and nothing was

recovered from his possession. Mr. Das Mahapatra has further submitted

that the petitioner had no knowledge of the initiation of the aforesaid case

and a chargesheet was submitted under Section 379 / 411 / 413 / 414 of IPC

and 27(a)(6)(ii) of Drugs and Cosmetics Act on 02.09.2010 showing him

absconder. After taking cognizance on 02.09.2010, a warrant of arrest was

issued on that day against the present petitioner. Though the petitioner was

residing at his place within the jurisdiction of Sagarpara Police Station, no

warrant of arrest was executed against him after expiry of more than 13

years from the issuance of warrant of arrest. However, the petitioner was

arrested on 22.03.2024. There is no material showing that the petitioner

was involved with the commission of the offence which took place almost 14 3 2025:CHC-AS:1768

years ago and he was arrested only on the complicity and on the basis of

statements of the accused persons. 3. The learned counsel has relied upon several decision reported in 2019

SCC OnLine Cal 2072 ( Ashok Jain V. Narcotics Control Bureau ), AIR

1964 SC 1184 (Haricharan Kurmi Vs. State of Bihar), (2019) 16 SCC

547 ( Dipakbhai Jagdishchandra Patel Vs. State of Gujarat and Anr. ) and

also another decision of Hon‟ble Co-ordinate Bench in connection with CRR

No. 2657 of 2024 (Gopinath Majumder Vs. The State of West Bengal) in

support of his contention. 4. Mr. Das Mahapatra has further submitted that in State of Haryana

Vs. Bhajanlal reported in AIR 1992 SC 604 the Hon‟ble Supreme Court

has laid down the principles of quashing a proceeding under Section 482 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure. In essence the Hon‟ble Apex Court has been

pleased to observe that where the allegations made in the First Information

Report or the complaint even if they are taken at their face value and

accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make

out a case against the accused, such FIR is liable to be quashed. 5. The learned counsel has categorically submitted that there is no

material which justifies the entanglement of the petitioner in this case. The

basis of his arrest is the statement of the accused which is inadmissible

evidence in the eye of law. As there is no other material apart from such

inadmissible statement of the alleged co-accused, allowing to continue the 4 2025:CHC-AS:1768

relevant proceeding against the present petitioner is a sheer abuse of

process of court and as such the relevant FIR, the chargesheet and other

orders are liable to be quashed. 6. The learned counsel for the State, Mrs. Sinha has fairly submitted

that it is true that the instant case was initiated on 15.05.2010 and on the

basis of the statement of the co-accused, the FIR was also lodged against the

present petitioner along with others. But the fact remains that the accused

remained absconder for about 14 years and as a result of such absconcion,

the investigating agency was unable to procure any material evidence

against him. Had he not absconded for so long the investigating agency

could have collected incriminating materials against the petitioner. As the

petitioner did not co-operate with the investigation by remaining absconder

for a period of 14 years, his prayer for quashing the proceedings should not

be allowed. 7. After considering the rival contentions of the parties and also taking

into consideration the case diary and the judicial decisions relied upon by

the learned counsel of the petitioner it appears to me that the instant case

was initiated on 15.05.2010 and although at that time the petitioner was

not present at the spot, on the basis of the statement of the co-accused, the

instant case was also started against the petitioner showing him absconder. In Ashok Jain 's case (supra) it is observed that "the principal accused

Ansar Rahaman and Deepak Giri were convicted and the other two accused

persons Bhagwan Singh and Bhairon Singh whose names were taken by the 5 2025:CHC-AS:1768

principal accused along with that of the petitioner, have already been

acquitted. The house of the petitioner was found under lock and key and no

criminal antecedent of the petitioner was revealed on inquiry. Subsequent raid

of the petitioner's house also did not lead to anything suggesting his

involvement in the alleged offence". 8. The Hon‟ble Court has also observed in paragraph 9 of that decision

to the effect "It is trite law that jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code

ought to be exercised with extreme care, caution and circumspection and

should not be used to stifle or axe down a legitimate prosecution. But at the

same time, the court should not hesitate to quash any proceedings which may

amount to abuse of the process of law." 9. In Haricharan Kurmi's case (supra) the Hon‟ble Supreme Court has

dealt with the provisions under Section 30 of the Evidence Act along with

the evidence given by an accomplice under Section 133 of that Act. 10. In Dipakbhai Jagdishchandra Patel 's case (supra) the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court has discussed the effect of confession before the police

officer by an accused. In that case what happened is that accused-1,

accused-2 and accused-3 were arrested with fake Saudi Arabian currency

Riyal and on the basis of their confession to the effect that they were selling

fake Saudi Arabian currency Riyal in connivance with the

appellant/accused-4, the said accused-4 was arrested. The accused-4 was

also admitted before the police regarding his involvement in the said offence. 6 2025:CHC-AS:1768

The plea for discharge of the appellant was rejected by the courts below on

the basis that it is premature to say anything at this stage in respect of the

credibility of the statement made by the officer in the complaint. It was held

by the Hon‟ble Apex Court that materials relied on by the State to sustain

framing charges against the appellant, are statements given by the appellant

under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. and statements also given by the co-accused. It

is trite law that confession made to a police officer is clearly an inadmissible

piece of evidence and even if it does contain admission by virtue of Section

162 of Cr.P.C. such admissions are also clearly inadmissible. Accordingly,

the proceeding on the basis of that it is a confession by an co-accused and

still proceeding further that there is a joint trial of the accused is clearly not

permitted under the law of the land particularly when there is no recovery

from the appellant any counterfeit note nor any other material on the basis

of which even a strong suspicion could be aroused. In the unreported case

of Gopinath Majumder (supra) the Hon‟ble Co-ordinate Bench has been

pleased to observed:- 11. I have gone through the FIR which was lodged by ASI Sujoy Roy on

15.05.2010 stating that after conducting the raid on the basis of a secret

source information he recovered narcotics from the vehicle bearing

Registration No. WB 02F/8837 and arrested two accused persons namely

Babu Sk @ Abid Hossain and Ejaharun Mandal and on interrogation both 8 2025:CHC-AS:1768

the accused confessed that the present petitioner and others were also

involved in commission of the offence as alleged. 12. Section 161 of Cr.P.C. has given power to the police officer making an

investigation to examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with

the facts of the case and such person shall be bound to answer truly all

questions relating to such a case put to him by such officer other than

questions of self-incriminating issues. Therefore, the terms „any person

supposed to be acquainted‟ include the accused also. Hence, the

investigating officer has his rights to interrogate the accused person also

and in doing so, if the accused makes any comment involving others, the

police officer can use such statements as a piece of „lead‟ for unfurling

further investigation. Needless to mention, the term „lead‟ in police

investigation implies a piece of information, evidence or a direction or a clue

to help in solving a crime or unfurling the truth. The investigators can use

such leads to gather more information after verification of the said clue.

Therefore, interrogation of the accused by the investigating officer is neither

prohibited nor regarded as illegal under the Code of Criminal Procedure ,

1973. It is also not illegal to interrogate the accused for obtaining more

information relating to the entire gamut of the offence committed and

persons involved therewith. It appears from the record that the accused

Babu Sk @ Abid Hossain and Ejaharun Mandal were interrogated and

certain clues regarding the offence and offenders had been elicited. It is true

that on the basis of a statement of an accused none can be punished or

convicted unless there are other materials connecting the offenders who 9 2025:CHC-AS:1768

were named by the said accused persons. Therefore, the interrogation by

which an accused divulged the names of others cannot be ipso facto wrong

during investigation under the provisions of Code of Criminal Procedure unless the same were verified and found wrong. If the investigating officers

are not allowed to act upon the „lead‟ received from the apprehended

accused persons, the investigation cannot proceed, but at the same time,

the court should take into consideration whether such „lead‟ from the

accused persons are actually verified or not by the investigating officer

before entangling another person, who was named by the apprehend

accused, in the case. If the said information received from the accused is not

verified nor acted upon, mere naming of another by the apprehended

accused makes the issue irrelevant. However, if the said information/lead is

verified or acted upon, and when there are indications that such

information may tend to unfurl the entire gamut of the offence or part(s) of

it, in that event such interrogation disclosing the name of the other accused

person cannot be thrown out by the courts before trial of the case. 13. In our case, although the investigating officer got the alleged

information regarding the involvement of the present applicant, no fruitful

effort was made by him to apprehend the present applicant. The report filed

by one SI Dipak Halder, the Officer-in-Charge of Jalangi Police Station,

Murshidabad dated 25.07.2025 shows that warrant of arrest was issued for

the first time on 02.09.2010 against the applicant and thereafter on

24.01.2024 a fresh warrant of arrest was issued against him. The

explanation of the Officer-in-Charge for non-execution of the warrant of 10 2025:CHC-AS:1768

arrest against the applicant was that as "no reminder has been received by

this police station from the learned Court after issuing the warrant of arrest

against accused Kajim Sk., for the period from 03.03.2011 to 19.05.2023,"