1. Ganesh is convicted for offences punishable under Sections
302 / 419 / 392 / 201 IPC vide the impugned judgment dated February 24, 2012
and vide order dated February 28, 2012 directed to undergo imprisonment
for life and fine of `10,000/- for offence under Section 302 IPC; rigorous
imprisonment for 2 years for offence punishable under Section 419 IPC;
rigorous imprisonment for 3 years and fine of `5000/- each on both the
counts i.e. Section 392 and Section 201 IPC. 2. Ganesh assails the judgment on the ground that the only evidence
with the prosecution is of Rakesh PW-1 the complainant who is not a
trustworthy witness in view of the material contradictions in his complaint
and the statement before Court. No incriminating article was recovered at
his instance and the so-called recovery was not subjected to Test Crl.A.No.1440/2012 Page 1 of 16 Identification Parade and is thus not reliable. While affecting the alleged
recovery of articles at the instance of Ganesh neither any public witness nor
any Police official of Uttar Pradesh was associated. The version of Rakesh
that he had spoken to Hari Darshan is falsified by the fact that at the relevant
time Hari Darshan was in judicial custody. Rakesh himself stated that after
the recovery of camera and the stand at the instance of Paramjeet they went
to Delhi and hence there was no occasion for recovery at the instance of
Ganesh. Despite Rakesh having all the phone numbers and details as to
where Kaushal had gone he made no efforts to search him. There is no
investigation as to whom the numbers allegedly given by Ganesh to Rakesh
belong to. Rajender Prasad PW-4 from whose Paddy fields it is alleged that
the dead body of Kaushal was recovered has not stated that he saw the
appellant. No identification of the dead body was done as no photographs
were shown to Rakesh. The recovery of articles at the instance of Ganesh
has been disbelieved by the learned Trial Court. Thus, merely on the
evidence of Rakesh who stated that Kaushal deceased had gone with
Ganesh, Ganesh cannot be convicted of the offences as held by the learned
Trial Court. 3. The defence of Ganesh is false implication. No defence evidence has
been led and in reply to question "Do you want to say anything else?" it is
stated: 4. A complaint dated January 14, 2007 for the kidnapping of his cousin
brother Kaushal Sharma signed by Rakesh PW-1was received at PS Pandav
Nagar. On the same day vide DD No. 14A FIR No. 23/2007 under Section
365 IPC was registered at PS Pandav Nagar. In the complaint it was stated
by Rakesh Kumar that he was running Sanjeevani Studio for editing and
recording and along with him his cousin brother Kaushal Sharma, son of
Rambrij Sharma was working as a photographer. On January 06, 2007 a
person who told his name as Rajneesh came to his studio and asked for a
camera on rent for the purpose of shooting. According to the said Rajneesh
the shooting was to take place from January 07, 2007 to January 12, 2007 at
Bara Mandir, Hastinapur, Meerut, UP. Rakesh asked for a reference from
Rajneesh who took the name of one Hari Darshan, Director GM Films,
Meerut and gave his phone number 09837236464 and told that the said
phone belongs to his brother Sriniwas on which he can talk to him as well as
Kaushal. Believing Rajneesh, as Hari Darshan had earlier also taken camera
on rent, he gave the camera to Rajneesh and sent Kaushal Sharma along
with Rajneesh on January 06, 2007 at 7.00 PM. Since Kaushal did not make
any call till January 10, 2007 on January 11, 2007 Rakesh made a phone call
on mobile No. 09837236464 on which the person who received the call said
that he was Sriniwas but he did not know either Rajneesh or Kaushal.
Sriniwas gave his address of Bulland Shehar. On January 12, 2007 he
discussed about Rajneesh to Hari Darshan on which he stated as to why he
had given the camera to Rajneesh. On this Rakesh replied that because he
had dealt with him i.e. Hari Darshan 5-6 times and Rajneesh made reference Crl.A.No.1440/2012 Page 3 of 16 to Hari Darshan. On January 13, 2007 he went to Meerut along with his
friends. On phone when Hari Darshan was contacted he said he was busy in
shooting and he should come to his office at Pallavi Tower, Meerut where
his friends were sitting and he could go and meet them. When he reached
the office at Pallavi Tower he asked number of persons to accompany him to
Bara Mandir, Hastinapur, Meerut, UP, however they said that there was no
shooting going on there. He went to Tejgarhi Chowk to find out Rajneesh
however he could not get any clue and thus he made complaint on the basis
of which FIR was registered. 5. On January 31, 2007 he received a call from Police officials of Garh
Mukteshwar that they had caught hold of one Rajneesh whose actual name
was Ganesh. Thus, he along with his friend went to Garh Mukteshwar and
identified the appellant who impersonated himself as Ganesh. He came
back to Delhi and informed the facts to Delhi Police. After January 31,
2007 the exact date which he did not know he accompanied Delhi Police to
village Amehra near Garh Mukteshwar. Thereafter along with Delhi Police
he went back to village Amehra near Garh Mukteshwar. One camera stand
(track board) which was kept on the reck inside the house of Paramjeet was
seized. 6. In the month of February 2007 he was called by Delhi Police and
shown the photograph of the deceased and he identified the same to be of his
brother Kaushal Sharma. On the arrest of Ganesh one black coloured pant,
one sky blue full sleeve shirt, one check T-shirt having colours, one shawl
light green colour, one badami underwear, one head phone, one battery
charger, SLR wire of blue colour, one RC wire with three pins, one plastic
tape of white colour and one camera remote were recovered. He identified Crl.A.No.1440/2012 Page 4 of 16 these articles and exhibited them. 7. The case of the prosecution is that on arrest Ganesh disclosed the
place where he had thrown the dead body and from there it was revealed that
on January 07, 2007 a dead body was recovered from the paddy fields of
Rajender Prasad PW-4 on the basis of which another FIR was registered at
Garh Mukteshwar. The post-mortem of Kaushal Sharma was done as an
unidentified body by Dr. Vikram Singh PW-3 who exhibited his post-
mortem report as Ex.PW-3/A. According to him the cause of death was due
to shock and haemorrhage as a result of ante-mortem injuries. He handed
over the clothes of the deceased, Janeu and Pendal to police officer of Garh
Mukteshwar. He noticed the following injuries on the body of the deceased: 8. SI Prem Babu Sharma, PW-15 is the Police officer who recovered the
dead body of Kaushal Sharma on January 07, 2007 and got lodged FIR
under Section 302 / 201 IPC at PS Incholi Jila Meerut. SI Prem Babu Sharma
has deposed that on January 07, 2007 Rajender Prasad PW-4 resident of Lal
Kurti came to Police Station and gave in writing that a dead body of
unknown person was lying in his fields in village Sikhaera. He along with
the staff reached the spot and found dead body of a male aged 25 years lying
in the field. The throat of the deceased was cut and there were stab wounds
on abdomen. The dead body could not be identified. It was got
photographed and the post-mortem was done after preserving the dead body
for 3 days for identification. Thereafter, the dead body was cremated. 9. Inspector Vijay Nagar, PW-17 the investigating officer of the case
deposed that on January 31, 2007 he along with ASI Vijender Singh, HC
Yashpal and other police officials reached Garh Mukteshwar. There they
met Sri Nivas, Advocate and Ram Nivas. Ram Nivas produced Ganesh and
he was taken to PS Garh Mukteshwar. The complainant was called who
identified Ganesh as the same person who had come to him telling his name
as Rajneesh and has taken his brother Kaushal for Meerut for shooting of the
picture with video camera. Ganesh was arrested. He made a disclosure Crl.A.No.1440/2012 Page 6 of 16 statement Ex.PW-6/C. Ganesh led to the arrest of Paramjit and Kamal
(discharged). All the three accused were brought to Delhi . On the next
day, P/C remand of all the three accused were taken. On February 02, 2007
the accused were taken to PS Incholi, who pointed out the place where
Kaushal's murder was done. At the instance of Paramjit, from the house of
his in-laws a stand of camera kept in a jute bag was recovered with words
Manfroot written on it. Thereafter, Ganesh from the roof, beneath a heap of
wood and brick got recovered a bag containing leads of camera, remote and
tape of camera, black pant, sky-blue shirt and camel colour underwear and
one Chadar belonging to the deceased. He identified Ex.P-1 to Ex.P-12.
This witness has admitted that till January 31, 2007 when Ganesh was
arrested they had no clue that Kaushal had been murdered. Thus, it is on the
disclosure statement of Ganesh that the factum of murder of Kaushal and
thereafter tracing of the FIR registered and photos of the dead body which
was criminated as unidentified were identified by Rakesh. 10. Thus, the prosecution case primarily rest on the testimony of Rakesh
Kumar before whom Ganesh impersonated as Rajneesh, took Kaushal
Sharma and the recovery of the articles belonging to the deceased at the
instance of Ganesh. 11. As regards the testimony of Rakesh Sharma is concerned, except
pointing out minor variations in the testimony no material aspect has been
shown which would reflect that before the Court the deposition of Rakesh
Kumar was materially different from what he stated in his complaint. It is
stated that in the testimony before Court Rakesh Kumar had stated that he
had obtained the residential address and the name of the father of Rajneesh
who noted it down as Amarpal Singh, Gali No.6, Tejgarhi Chowraha, Crl.A.No.1440/2012 Page 7 of 16 District Meerut, UP, however this is not stated in the complaint. Further in
the complaint it is stated that he had earlier also given camera to Hari
Darshan, however no such fact has been stated by Rakesh Kumar in his
testimony before the Court. The fact that Rakesh Kumar noted the father's
name and address of Rajneesh is only to highlight that after Kaushal Sharma
did not return back he tried to contact on the number given but he could not
contact him. Further the statement that Rajneesh hired an Auto and his
cousin brother Kaushal Sharma along with Rajneesh and one other boy sat
in the TSR is also not a material improvement from his complaint. These
are minor blemishes which are bound to take place every time a person
makes a narration of the sequence of events. In nutshell, from the cross-
examination of Rakesh Kumar. the appellant has not been able to elicit
anything to show that Ganesh did not impersonate as Rajneesh and took
Kaushal Sharma and camera with him on the evening of January 06, 2007. 12. The next round of attack is the alleged recoveries of the clothes and
other articles of deceased at the instance of Ganesh. It is stated that no TIP
of the recoveries has been done. Further, no public witness or local police
has been associated for recovery pursuant to the alleged disclosure
statement. Moreover, the recovery of the clothes etc. has already been
disbelieved by the learned Trial Court. The fact that the recovery of these
clothes of the deceased and camera accessories at the instance of Ganesh has
been disbelieved by the learned Trial Court is not binding on this Court and
this Court is required to appreciate the facts and the law involved in the
present case independently. The learned Trial Court has disbelieved the
recoveries of the clothes of the deceased and the camera accessories at the
instance of the appellant on the ground that no proper identification of the Crl.A.No.1440/2012 Page 8 of 16 same were got conducted and they were first time identified in the Court.
Test identification Parade is only an aid in investigation. Rakesh Kumar has
deposed that in the month of February 2007 he was called by the Police and
he was shown the photograph and clothes of the deceased and camera
accessories which he identified. Though TIP of camera and camera stand
was done, however the bag containing the clothes of the deceased and the
accessories of the camera were not got identified in the judicial TIP. The
deceased was a cousin brother of Rakesh Kumar and was working with him.
Thus, the two being too close and intimate he would obviously know about
each other's clothes and the camera accessories which were taken from the
shop of Rakesh Kumar itself. Hence he was in a condition to duly identify
the same. Even in the absence of Test Identification of these articles we are
inclined to rely upon these recoveries. 13. In the decision reported as AIR 2005 SC 402 Munshi Singh Gautam
(D) & Ors Vs. State of M.P. it was held: 14. The second ground to assail the recoveries is that no public witness or
Police official of the local Police Station was associated with the recovery
pursuant to the alleged disclosure by Ganesh. Mere non-association of a
public witness at the time of recovery pursuant to disclosure under Section
27 of the Indian Evidence Act does not vitiate the recoveries made and can
still be relied upon. While dealing with this issue the Supreme Court in
( 2001) 1 SCC 652 State Govt. of NCT of Delhi Vs. Sunil and Anr. laid down
the distinction between recovery pursuant to disclosure statement under Section 27 Indian Evidence Act and search under Section 100 Cr.P.C. It
was held: 19. In this context we may point out that there is no
 requirement either under Section 27 of the Evidence Act or
 under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to obtain
 signature of independent witnesses on the record in which
 statement of an accused is written. The legal obligation to call
 independent and respectable inhabitants of the locality to
 attend and witness the exercise made by the police is cast on
 the police officer when searches are made under Chapter VII of
 the Code. Section 100(5) of the Code requires that such search
 shall be made in their presence and a list of all things seized in
 the course of such search and of the places in which they are
 respectively found, shall be prepared by such officer or other
 person "and signed by such witnesses". It must be remembered
 that a search is made to find out a thing or document about
 which the searching officer has no prior idea as to where the
 thing or document is kept. He prowls for it either on reasonable
 suspicion or on some guesswork that it could possibly be
 ferreted out in such prowling. It is a stark reality that during
 searches the team which conducts the search would have to
 meddle with lots of other articles and documents also and in
 such process many such articles or documents are likely to be
 displaced or even strewn helter-skelter. The legislative idea in
 insisting on such searches to be made in the presence of two Crl.A.No.1440/2012 Page 11 of 16 independent inhabitants of the locality is to ensure the safety of
 all such articles meddled with and to protect the rights of the
 persons entitled thereto. But recovery of an object pursuant to
 the information supplied by an accused in custody is different
 from the searching endeavour envisaged in Chapter VII of the
 Code. This Court has indicated the difference between the two
 processes in the Transport Commr., A.P., Hyderabad v.S.
 Sardar Ali [(1983) 4 SCC 245 : 1983 SCC (Cri) 827 : AIR 1983
 SC 1225] . Following observations of Chinnappa Reddy, J. can
 be used to support the said legal proposition: (SCC p. 254,
 para 8)
 " Section 100 of the Criminal Procedure Code to
 which reference was made by the counsel deals
 with searches and not seizures. In the very nature
 of things when property is seized and not
 recovered during a search, it is not possible to
 comply with the provisions of sub-sections (4) and
 (5) of Section 100 of the Criminal Procedure
 Code. In the case of a seizure under the Motor
 Vehicles Act , there is no provision for preparing a
 list of the things seized in the course of the seizure
 for the obvious reason that all those things are
 seized not separately but as part of the vehicle
 itself."" 18. In (2001) 3 SCC 190 Sanjay @ Kaka etc. Vs. The State (NCT of
Delhi) it was held: 19. In view of the aforesaid discussion we uphold the conviction of
Ganesh for offences punishable under Section 302 / 419 / 392 / 201 IPC and the
order on sentence. The appeal is accordingly dismissed. The appellant who
is in custody will suffer the remaining sentence. 20. T.C.R. be returned. 21. Two copies of the judgment be sent to the Superintendent Central Jail
Tihar one for his record and the other to be handed over to the appellant. (MUKTA GUPTA)
 JUDGE

 (PRADEEP NANDRAJOG)
 JUDGE
AUGUST 28, 2014
'ga' Crl.A.No.1440/2012 Page 16 of 16