1. The present petition has been filed by the petitioner under

Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (For short

"BNSS") seeking regular bail in the FIR mentioned below:- 2. Brief facts relevant for the purpose of disposal of the present

petition are that the aforementioned FIR was registered on the basis of a

complaint submitted by the complainant Gurujot Singh alleging that on

25.07.2024, he received a call on his mobile phone and the caller while

disclosing that he was a representative of Fedex Courier Company,

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 12-11-2025 13:14:05 ::: CRM-M No.38966 of 2025 -2- disclosed to him that he had sent a parcel containing some articles from

Mumbai to Russia which had been caught by the Customs Department and

that contraband had been recovered from the same. The complainant

responded by telling him that no such parcel had been sent by him. The

caller by saying that it could be a case of leak of his Aadhar Card details,

told him that he was transferring his call to the Mumbai Crime Branch. Then

he was made to talk to some other person who introduced himself as SI Ajay

Bansal from Mumbai Crime Branch. That the said person took him to his

video call, digitally arrested him and by blackmailing him, got transferred an

amount of Rs.8,48,925/- from the bank account of the complainant to a

particular bank account. Later on, the complainant realized that a fraud had

been committed with him and he was duped of the aforementioned amount

of money. 3. After registration of FIR, investigation proceedings were

initiated which revealed that the aforementioned amount was transferred in

bank account No.20512935706 of State Bank of India Branch by way of two

transactions and from the same and thereafter, an amount of Rs.3,95,000/-

was transferred to the bank account of accused Ameen Ali and the said

amount had been withdrawn by the complainant by way of a self cheque on

25.07.2024. The petitioner was accordingly nominated as accused along

with the co-accused Ameen Ali. One Kapil Chauhan was also nominated as

such. The petitioner and the co-accused were arrested on 17.06.2025.

Investigation now stands completed. 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 12-11-2025 13:14:05 ::: CRM-M No.38966 of 2025 -3- 4. It is argued by learned counsel for the petitioner that he has

been falsely implicated in this case. He was not named in the FIR. No

money was transferred in his account. Infact, he was only an employee of

accused Ameen and his Aadhar Card had been misused by the accused

Ameen without his knowledge for the purpose of withdrawing money. The

details of his Aadhar Card had been submitted by the petitioner with accused

Ameen for the purpose of gaining employment. The mobile phone number

from which the complainant had received calls did not belong to him. He is

not beneficiary of the transaction. No recovery has been effected from him.

The trial will take considerable time to conclude. His further incarceration

would not serve any useful purpose. He has clean antecedents. Therefore, it

is urged that he deserves to be released on bail. 5. Per contra, learned Assistant Advocate General, Haryana has

argued that keeping in view of the gravity of the allegations as levelled

against the petitioner, he does not deserve to be released on bail. 6. This Court has considered the rival submissions. 7. The petitioner is alleged to have hatched a conspiracy with the

co-accused and in pursuance of that conspiracy, the complainant was kept

under digital arrest and cyber fraud/crime was committed with him by

extending threat to him on the premise that some contraband had been

recovered from a parcel allegedly sent by him from Mumbai to Russia and

then he was made to transfer an amount of Rs.8,48,925/- by way of

blackmailing him in the bank account of one of the accomplices of the

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 12-11-2025 13:14:05 ::: CRM-M No.38966 of 2025 -4- petitioner and the co-accused. The investigation has revealed that an amount

of Rs.3,95,000/- was transferred in the bank account of the co-accused

Ameen Ali and by way of a self cheque, it was the petitioner who had

withdrawn the same. There is sufficient prima facie evidence connecting the

petitioner with the subject crime, however, in the opinion of this Court, the

pre trial incarceration should not be a replica of post conviction sentencing.

The petitioner is in custody since 17.06.2025. He is not involved in any

other case. The well settled proposition of law is that bail is the rule and jail

is an exception. The personal liberty is a precious fundamental right and it

should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative according to the

peculiar facts and circumstances of the case. Continued detention of the

petitioner would not serve any useful purpose. It is equally well settled that

when an undertrial prisoner is detained in jail for an indefinite period, Article 21 of the Constitution is violated. Reliance in this regard can be had

to the observations made by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sanjay Chandra v.

CBI , 2011 SCC OnLine SC 1502. In view of the above discussed facts and

circumstances, this Court is of the considered opinion that the further

incarceration of the petitioner would be of no justifiability and the petitioner

has made out a case for grant of bail. Accordingly, the petition is allowed

and the petitioner is ordered to be admitted to bail subject to his furnishing

personal bonds as well as surety bonds by two sureties in the like amount

each to the satisfaction of learned trial Court/CJM/Duty Magistrate

concerned and further subject to the condition that he will mention his

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 12-11-2025 13:14:05 ::: CRM-M No.38966 of 2025 -5- personal identification details of passport number, if any, his cell phone

number, Aadhar Card and his permanent residence as well as the present

residential address, if any. He shall not directly or indirectly make any

inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the

case so as to dissuade him/her from disclosing such facts to the Court or to

any Police Officer. 8. It is also clarified that the observations made hereinabove are

not an expression of opinion on the merits of the case nor the trial Court

shall advert to the comments made herein and that the prosecution will be

entitled to seek cancellation of bail, if the petitioner violates any of the

conditions as laid down upon him.