1. This is first application under section 439 of the Cr.P.C in crime
no.405/2019 under section 419 , 420 , 384 , 506 , 120-B , 34 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 385 , 370(1)(a)(b)(c)(d)(e) and 370(3) of the IPC and 67, 67(a) of
the IT Act registered at police station Palasiya, Indore. 2. The prosecution case in brief is that the complainant Harbajan
Singh, Superintendent Engineer, Municipal Corporation Indore
lodged FIR stating that in the year 2008-09, when he was looking
after the work of JNNURM project, one Shweta Jain contacted him
and requested for allotting some work stating that she runs some
NGO. Later she introduced Arti Dayal and Monika yadav. Gradually
they developed intimacy. Started with simple whatapp massaging,
They also started sending erotic, steamy and sexual chatting and love
massages on whatsapp and thereafter erotic and sexual picture
massages and allured him. They offered sex and instigated him to
make sexual relations and often came close to him. On 18.08.2019,
Arti Dayal, Seema @ Monika Yadav along with their driver
Omprakash (petitioner) came to Indore, stayed in room No.104 of
Hotel Shree Ave Infinity, Indore booked by him and called him there.
In the room they incited him to make sexual relation with them but
the complainant refused for the same. Later, on several occasions, the
same attempts was made by them. They incited him several times,
some times, he lost control and kissed and hugged them. They trapped
him in their net, clicked some porn videos secretly and started
demanding money under the threat that they will defame him in the
society by circulating those videos on web or social media. After 2 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE M.Cr.C. No.3876 of 2020 Omprakash Vs. State of M.P. demanding small amounts initially, they raised their demand in many
folds and lastly started demanding Rs. 3 Crores. Under immense
pressure, initially he fulfill their demand but after some time first he
procrastinated their demand for sometime and then express his
inability to obey their demand. They mounted immense pressure and
also threatened him for dire consequences. Later, he decided to seek
help of the police and lodged FIR. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner
is Driver of one of the co-accused Arti Dayal. He only performed his
duties as per direction of his master. He is nothing to do with any
other activity of his master or any other person connected with her.
He is innocent and has falsely been implicated by the police,
therefore, he be granted bail. 4. The learned public prosecutor submitted that the petitioner was
an active member of the racket of black mailers/extortioners, who
were indulged in blackmailing several persons of different walks of
the life. Their modus operandi was that they first develop friendship,
thereafter, some intimacy and then allure them by offering sex and
instigating and inciting them for some internal/private movement
moments, record their videos and then start black mailing them. They
have extorted crores of rupees from several highly posted public
servants and prominent persons in the society in the same manner.
During the investigation, the police have collected call details of
mobile No. the petitioner and also of the other co-accused persons
showing that the petitioner was in frequent contact with the members
of group of perpetrators. If he was a simple Driver of a person, there
was no need for him to contact the other ladies so frequently. It is
further submitted by the learned public prosecutor that the manner
and method, in which the people were victimize and were threatened 3 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE M.Cr.C. No.3876 of 2020 Omprakash Vs. State of M.P. and pressurized was that they use mobile number, send some mobile
 clippings on whatsapp and after sometime they put the victims under
 pressure that the same video clippings will be viral, if there demand is
 not complied with. It is a peculiar case of its type. It is commonly
 known as 'Honey Trap Case' which is deep rooted and was active
 since years. The gang targeted the public officers and forced them to
 do favour in several fields. Active participation of the petitioner is
 very clear from the call details. Several lap tops, hard discs, pen
 drives, screen shots, voice recording, documents of title have been
 seized and are sent to the FSL for analysis . Report is awaited. The
 offence is heinous and has deep impact on the society, therefore, he be
 not granted bail. 5. I have considered rival contentions of the parties and have gone
 through the case diary. 6. Considering the evidence collected during the investigation in
 the form of several whatsapp messages, photographs and statement of
 the witnesses, allegations made against the petitioner, evidence
 available against him, in my considered opinion, this is not a fit case
 to grant bail to the petitioner, therefore, without discussing the
 evidence elaborately or commenting on merits of the case, as it may
 adversely affect the case of either side, the petition preferred by the
 petitioner is dismissed. (Virender Singh)
 Judge
 sourabh Digitally signed by SOURABH YADAV Date: 2020.02.28 16:14:06 +05'30'