This is first bail application filed by the applicants under Section 439 of
 the Cr.P.C. for grant of regular bail relating to F.I.R. No.14/2023, dated
 11.01.2023, registered at Police Station Gunour, District - Panna (M.P.) for
 commission of offence under Sections 420 , 506 / 34 of IPC and under Sections
 66-D and 66-E of the I.T. Act. Applicants are in detention since 23.01.2023. 2 . A s per the prosecution story, on 11.01.2023, Vijay Kumar Verma Signature Not Verified Signed by: APARNA TIWARI Signing time: 7/27/2023 11:43:46 AM 2 moved an application in writing before Police alleging that he is a Teacher. On
 18.11.2022, he received a whatsapp call on his mobile number from some new
 number. When he attended the call, one girl was seen taking off her clothes.
 After sometime, video call recording was forwarded to him and he was
 blackmailed and was asked to deposit money otherwise video will be made viral
 and thereafter, on different days, he deposited a total amount of Rs.10,80,690/-
 (Rs. Ten Lakh Eight Thousand and Six Hundred and Ninety) in the various
 Bank account numbers given by the accused persons. FIR was registered. After
 investigation, charge sheet has been filed. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that applicants have

 n o t committed any offence. They are innocent. They have been falsely
 implicated. It is submitted that main accused Mustafa, Rashid and Sajid are
 absconding. Applicants are the worker of their shops. They had no knowledge
 about such racket being run by Mustafa and others. Nothing has been seized
 from their possession. Only allegation against Anas Khan is that one ATM card
 of Mustafa was seized from his possession except that there is no evidence
 against him. The mobile number from which video is alleged to have been
 forwarded is not his registered mobile. They are in jail for last six months. Trial
 of the case will take considerable time. Therefore, it is prayed that applicants
 may be released on bail, pending the trial. 4. O n the other hand, learned counsel for the State as well as learned
 counsel for the objector have opposed the prayer for grant of bail to the
 applicants. 5 . In this case, main accused persons are absconding and Police have
 not initiated any action under Sections 82 and 83 of Cr.P.C. so far against them. Therefore, having taken into consideration all the facts and circumstances of the
 case including the detention period of the applicant, but without expressing any
 opinion on the merits of the case, I am of the view that it is a case in which
 further pretrial detention of the applicants is not warranted. Consequently, this
 bail application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for grant
 of bail filed on behalf of applicant stands allowed. 6. I t is directed that applicants - Yusuf Khan and Anas Khan be
 released on bail on their furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.2,00,000/-
 (Rupees Two Lakh only) with two local solvent sureties of Rs.1,00,000/-
 (Rupees One Lakh only) each to the satisfaction of the trial Court, for their
 regular appearance before the trial Court during trial with a condition that they
 shall remain present before the concerned Court on all the dates fixed by it
 during trial. He shall abide by all the conditions enumerated under Section
 437(3) of Cr.P.C. This order will remain operative subject to compliance of the following
 conditions by the applicants:- 7. This order shall be effective till the end of the trial. However, in case
 o f bail jump and breach of any of the conditions of bail, it shall become
 ineffective. Certified copy as per rules. (DINESH KUMAR PALIWAL)
 JUDGE
 AT Signature Not Verified Signed by: APARNA TIWARI Signing time: 7/27/2023 11:43:46 AM