1. The case pertaining to the charge sheet being filed after investigation u/s. 173 (2) Cr.P.C . in respect of FIR No. 104/2009 for the alleged offence u/s.
 120B / 489B / 489C r/w.120B IPC and 174A IPC of PS Crime Branch. 2. The brief factual matrix as per the case of the prosecution is that in the first
 week of June 2009, a secret information was received that one notorious
 gang of Western U.P. is involved in trafficking of counterfeit Indian
 currency from Nepal and Pakistan and on 29.06.2009 as per the secret
 information it was confirmed that two members of this gang namely Shanu
 and Naim have gone to Nepal to take delivery of the consignment of
 counterfeit Indian currency and secret watch was maintained on their hide
 out in Delhi and U.P. Again on 01.07.2009, DD No. 8A dated 01.07.2009

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 2 of 102
 was recorded at 2:00 pm on the information from the secret informer to SI
 Manjeet Tomar that two persons namely Naim and Shanu in the evening at
 about 7:00 pm would come to deliver fake Indian currency and they will
 receive the genuine Indian currency of half of the amount of fake currency.
 SI Manjeet was also informed that those two persons will use the word
 "Chamra". The said information was shared by SI Manjeet Singh to
 Inspector Ashok Sharma and ACP, who instruct to proceed further as per
 law. 3. Thereafter, a raiding party was constituted consisting of Inspector Ashok
 Sharma, SI Manjeet Tomar, SI Ram Avtar, ASI Mahender Singh, HC
 Satpal, HC Surender, HC Rishi Pal, HC Subodh, Ct. Manoj and Ct. Sanjay
 including the secret informer. At about 5:00 pm all the raiding party
 members departure from their office in a Government vehicle Qualis and
 one private motorcycle and reached at Rajouri Garden Metro Station about
 6:00 pm and 6­7 public persons were requested to join the raiding party but
 none agreed and left without telling their name and addresses. Thereafter,
 without wasting time SI Manjeet Tomar appointed HC Subodh as decoy
 customer and his personal search was conducted, his belongings purse, ID
 card and money was handed over the HC Satyapal and SI Manjeet prepared
 personal search of HC Subodh to the said effect. HC Subodh was directed
 to deal with the counterfeit currency notes from the persons whom the
 informer identified using the code "Chamra" (leather) and after striking the

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 3 of 102
 deal for the counterfeit currency note he will give the signal as decided i.e.
 waving his hand over his head. HC Rishipal was appointed as shadow
 witness and he was directed to hear the conversation between HC Subodh
 and the persons, if needed he will also help HC Subodh. 4. Thereafter, both HC Subodh and HC Rishipal were sent immediately
 alongwith secret informer near metro station, Rajouri Garden and rest of
 the staff was directed that they will follow up the signal of HC Subodh and
 apprehend the person selling/dealing the counterfeit currency. SI Manjeet
 alongwith other staff positioned near parking of shopping mall adjacent to
 the metro station, Rajouri Garden. 5. At about 7:10 pm secret informer pointed out towards two boys coming on
 foot from Vishal Cinema side, when they reached near metro station,
 Rajouri Garden, HC Subodh struck the deal of counterfeit currency with
 them. When they were showing counterfeit Indian currency HC Subodh
 waive his hand on the head, the signal already decided. Thereafter, SI
 Manjeet alongwith accompanying staff apprehended them. Thereafter, SI
 Manjeet disclosed his identity and also the purpose of apprehending them.
 On inquiry their names and addresses were disclosed as Shan Mohd. @
 Shanu s/o. Mohd. Liyas r/o. H.No. 949, Mohalla Kotla, Mevatiyan, near
 Ali Jahan Flour Mill, PS Kotwali, District Ghaziabad, U.P. aged 21 years
 and Mohd. Naim @ Sajid, s/o. Mohd. Bhura, r/o. Village and P.O. Uldhan,

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 4 of 102
 P.S. Kharkhoda, District Meerut, U.P., aged 22 years. At this time, also SI
 Manjeet requested 2/3 passersby to join the police proceedings but none of
 them joined and left the place without telling their names and addresses
 after expressing their justified reasons. Thereafter, SI Manjeet Tomar
 informed to both the abovesaid accused persons that they are in possession
 of counterfeit currency and their search is to be taken and also offered that
 they may take the personal search of raiding party if they wishes so but
 both the persons refused. Thereafter, SI Manjeet Tomar took out the search
 of accused Shan Mohd. and on his search total Rs. 20,000/­ in the
 denomination of Rs. 500/­ were recovered from right side back pocket of
 the pant (trouser) and same were seized through seizure memo. Thereafter,
 search of another accused namely Mohd. Naim was carried out and total
 Rs. 18,500/­ in the denomination of Rs. 500/­ were recovered from right
 side front pocket of his jeans. The seized notes were kept in transparent
 plastic sheets and converted into two pulandas with the help of tape and
 sealed with the seal of MT. Both pulandas were given as mark A and B
 respectively. SI Manjeet Tomar thoroughly and carefully checked the
 seized the counterfeit currency notes and found that the paper of these notes
 is weaker and rough than the original currency notes, the serial number
 printed on these notes were also different in size than the original one, the
 water mark of Mahatma Gandhi is also not identical and RBI leaf printing
 on the security thread is also not clear. On view and touch apparently they
 are found counterfeit currency. Hence, both accused persons namely Mohd. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 5 of 102
 Naim and Shan Mohd. Have indulge themselves in trafficking and sale of
 Indian Counterfeit currency notes and thereby they have committed
 offences u/s. 489B / 489C / 34 IPC. 6. Thereafter, rukka Ex. PW­19/A was prepared by mentioning the above
 averments therein and was handed over to Ct. Sanjay at 9:00pm for
 registration of the FIR to duty officer with the request to entrust the
 investigation to SI Manjeet as he is busy in investigation at the spot. 7. Thereafter, SI Manjeet interrogated both accused persons named above and
 arrested as per procedure. During interrogation both the accused further
 told that one of their associate namely Mohd. Shahrukh @ chota was also
 coming at the spot alongwith the counterfeit currency and in the meantime,
 both the accused persons identified one person as Mohd. Shahrukh @ chota
 who was coming from Raja Garden Chowk towards Rajouri Garden Metro
 Station. Mohd. Shahrukh @ chota was apprehended with the help of staff
 and on conducting his personal search total Rs. 7,500/­ in denomination of
 Rs. 500/­ were recovered from his possession. On carefully checking the
 said currency notes in the above manner SI Manjeet came to know that said
 currency is also counterfeit. On inquiry, the name of accused was disclosed
 as Mohd. Shahrukh @ chota @ Aas Mohd. S/o. Mohd. Ibrahim r/o. H.No.
 214, Mohalla Purana Bazar, Sikander Gate near Ali Jahan Flour Mill, PS
 Hapur Kotwali, District Ghaziabad, U.P. Seized notes were kept in plastic

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 6 of 102
 seal and convert into pulanda with the help of tape and sealed with the seal
 of MT and pulanda was given mark 'C'. After interrogation accused Mohd.
 Shahrukh was arrested. Thereafter, SI Manjeet inspected the site and
 prepared site plan of spot without scale and recorded statement of
 witnesses. 8. During the interrogation of accused persons also revealed that their gang is
 well established in criminal activity of trafficking of Indian currency and
 their gang leader was one Jamil @ Bhura who was arrested by UP police in
 murder case and after his arrest his younger brother Mohd. Muslim took
 over the command of the gang. Accused Shan Mohd. was also released
 from Tihar jail somewhere in 2009 after spending nearly 2 years in a
 similar offence in a case booked by DRI in the year 2007 for counterfeit
 currency of Rs. 10 lakhs. Mohd. Naim was also earlier arrested in 2007 by
 special cell of Delhi Police when he had bought a big consignment of Rs.
 33 lakhs counterfeit currency from Pakistan and was released from jail in
 2008. 9. Since their release from jail police was mounted regularly surveillance over
 their activities. During the interrogation, it was revealed that all these three
 accused persons came to Delhi to make the initial delivery of Rs. 46,000/­
 to their customers. During interrogation it was also revealed that main
 consignment of more than Rs. 10 lakhs of fake Indian currency which they

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 7 of 102
 have recently brought from Nepal has been kept in Village Tajpur, District
 Bulandshahar, U.P. and at the instance of accused said counterfeit currency
 worth Rs. 10,11,500/­ in the denomination of Rs. 500/­ were recovered. 10. During investigation it was also revealed that accused Vipin Gupta and
 Ombir were local contacts in Delhi and on 06.07.2009 both these accused
 were also arrested. One computer and one scanner have also been
 recovered from the flat of Vipin Gupta. During the personal search two
 counterfeit currency notes in denomination of Rs. 500/­ and four
 counterfeit currency notes in denomination of Rs. 500/­ were recovered
 from accused Ombir Singh and Vipin Gupta respectively. 11. Thereafter, all the seized counterfeit currency were sent to currency note
 press Nasik and expert opinion were obtained. In his report, the expert has
 opined that all the seized currency notes were counterfeit currency. 12. During the investigation efforts were made to arrest accused Mohd. Muslim
 mentioned in column no. 12 but of no avail, hence, coercive measures were
 adopted to apprehend accused Mohd. Muslim and against the remaining
 accused persons report u/s. 173 Cr.PC was prepared and filed in the court
 in the form of charge sheet opining that offence u/s. 489B / 489C / 120B / 34 IPC are made out against all the accused persons based on the evidences
 collected. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 8 of 102 13. After making compliance of section 209 Cr.PC, considering the material on
 record and hearing the Ld. Addl. PP for State and Ld. Counsel for accused
 persons, Predecessor of this Court found a prima facie case for the offence
 punishable under section 489B / 489C / 120B / 34 IPC against all the accused
 persons to which all the accused persons pleaded not guilty and claimed
 trial. Accordingly, charges were framed vide order dated 04.01.2010. 14. It is pertinent to mention that during the course of trial of above accused
 persons, accused Mohd. Muslim was arrested and subsequently charge
 sheet was received in this court by assignment. Accordingly, separate
 charge u/s. 489C r/w. Sec. 120B and 174A IPC was framed vide order
 dated 04.01.2012 to which accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. It
 is also pertinent to mention that till the framing of charge against accused
 Mohd. Muslim, 11 witnesses were examined by the prosecution. However,
 accused was given offer to recall the said 11 witnesses and after
 consultation with his Counsel, accused shows his unwillingness to call the
 said 11 witnesses and in this regard separate statement of Sh. Riyaz Mohd.,
 Ld. Counsel for accused Mohd. Muslim, who also representing co­accused
 Vipin and Ombir during the trial and was aware with the evidence of all
 these 11 witnesses, stated that he adopted the evidence of all the witnesses
 including the cross­ examination already done on behalf of accused Mohd.
 Muslim as well. Thereafter, remaining witnesses were examined in the

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 9 of 102
 presence of accused Mohd. Muslim. 15. In order to prove its case, the prosecution has examined as much as 22
 witnesses. The testimony of prosecution witnesses are as under : 16. PW­1 SI Gyaneshwar Baddha, PS Kotwali Dehaat, District Bulandshahar,
 U.P. has deposed that on 05.07.2009 police officials of Crime Branch i.e.
 SI Manjeet with other staff came at their police post Bhure, Bulandshahar
 with one accused Shan Mohd. in custody and he alongwith the IO joined
 the investigation of this case being the local police officer went to Village
 Tajpur and further deposed that in his presence, one lady who was
 identified by accused Shan Mohd. as his khala namely Zaitoon handed over
 the suitcase which accused left in her house after a little hesitation and on
 checking the said suitcase was found containing fake currency worth Rs.
 10,11,500/­ in denomination of Rs. 500/­ which was seized by SI Manjeet
 Tomar vide memo Ex. PW­1/A bearing his signature at point A and he has
 identified the said counterfeit currency in the court as Ex. P3. This witness
 has also identified one towel, one charger, jeans pant, shawl, other clothes
 etc. with a pair of chappel which was recovered from the suitcase as Ex.
 P2. 17. PW­2 Chander Bhan, MLO, Janakpuri has deposed that Bajaj Motorcycle
 bearing registration no. DL­4SAY­7415 was registered in the name of

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 10 of 102
 Gulab r/o. X­105, camp no. 1, Nangloi, Delhi and the particulars of the
 vehicle proved as Ex. PW­2/A. Thereafter, PW­2 was again recalled for
 accused Mohd. Muslim and thereafter another PW­2 Satya Prakash, LDC,
 Transport Department appeared and proved the above record again. 18. PW­3 HC Subodh, member of raiding team constituted on 01.07.2009, who
 conducted proceedings at Rajouri Garden, Metro Station and arrested three
 accused persons and recovered the counterfeit currency. This witness was
 also made decoy customer by the IO and he dealt with accused Shan Mohd.
 and Naim. This witness has identified the accused persons as well as the
 case property correctly. This witness has deposed on the line of PW­18
 Inspector Ram Avtar and PW­19 SI Manjeet Tomar, IO 19. PW­4 M.N. Vijiyan, Nodal Officer, Tata Tele Services has deposed that he
 supplied the call details record of mob. no. 9278064305 for the period
 17.02.2009 to 27.08.2009 as proved the same as Ex. PW­4/A. He also
 proved the application form as Ex PW­4/B, copy of ID proof as Ex. PW­
 4/C, Cell ID list of Delhi Circle as Ex. PW­4/D. He has also proved the call
 details for the period 17.02.2009 to 27.08.2009 as Ex. PW­4/E and his
 letter in this regard as Ex. PW­4/F. It is pertinent to mention that after the
 arrest of accused Mohd. Muslim, this witness was recalled again and on his
 behalf PW­22 Rajiv Ranjan, Nodal Officer, Tata Tele Services appeared
 and deposed on the line as above and affirmed the above document and

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 11 of 102
 record. 20. PW­5 HC Rishi Pal again a member of raiding party and has deposed on
 the similar line as PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar and PW­19 SI Manjeet
 Tomar, IO. This witness has identified the accused persons as well as
 counterfeit currency correctly. This witness was made shadow witness at
 the time of raid on 01.07.2009 at Rajouri Garden, Metro Station about
 6:00pm by IO SI Manjeet Tomar and in his presence accused Shan Mohd.,
 Mohd. Naim and Mohd. Shahrukh were arrested. 21. PW­6 Smt. Zaitoon, w/o. Late Yamin Qureshi, examined as independent
 public witness to prove the factum of recovery lying in the suit case which
 was recovered by the IO and his team from her house in village Tajpur,
 District Bulandshahar at the instance of accused Sham Mohd. However,
 this witness did not speak anything in favour of the prosecution story. Even
 this witness was warned to prosecute for giving false evidence and was
 declared hostile by Ld. State Counsel despite she did not speak anything in
 favour of prosecution. Hence, her testimony is of no use to the prosecution. 22. PW­7 HC Surender again is a witness of raiding team qua the raid
 conducted on 01.07.2009 at Rajouri Garden Metro Station and deposed on
 the similar line as PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar and PW­19 SI Manjeet
 Tomar, IO. This witness has also identified the accused persons as well as

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 12 of 102
 counterfeit currency correctly. This witness has also deposed that on
 26.07.2009 at the direction of IO, he collected counterfeit currency note in
 6 pulandas vide RC no. 222/21/09 and deposited the same in Nasir Note
 Press, Nasik on 27.07.2009 and have also deposed that SI Ram Avtar and
 Ct. Manoj were also with him and stayed there for 2­3 days, collected the
 report on 30.07.2009, came back to Delhi again on 31.07.2009 and handed
 over the report to IO as well as the case property to MHC(M). This witness
 has also deposed that on 24.08.2009 he joined the investigation of this case
 and in his presence on Ravi Kalra reached in the office and handed over
 two documents to the IO, which IO seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW7/A
 bearing his signature at point A, photocopy of ticket Ex. PW7/B and
 photocopy of authorising letter in name of Ravi Kalra as Ex. PW7/C. 23. PW­8 Dharamveer Singh has deposed that he has given 3 rd floor of his
 house to one Akanksha and said Akanksha after 2­3 days brought one
 person pretending her husband as Naveen. He further deposed that on
 28.08.2009 he was called in Chanakyapuri and shown a photograph of a
 person to whom he identify as Naveen who lived with Akanksha in his
 house and the said witness in the court pointed out towards accused Mohd.
 Naim stating that he is the said Naveen. Hence, accused Mohd. Naim was
 correctly identified as the person who lived with one Akanksha in the house
 of Dharamveer Singh. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 13 of 102 24. PW­9 Ravi Kalra, travel agent deposed that on 26.07.2009, a ticket was
 booked from his shop as he was doing the work of booking of E­ticket of
 railways and the said tickets were booked in the name of Wasim and Naim.
 He has issued the certificate in this regard as Ex. PW­7/C. He has also
 proved the ticket as Ex. PW9/A. 25. PW­10 HC Bhupesh, Duty Officer has deposed that on 01.07.2009 while
 he was posted as Duty Officer from 8 pm to 8 am he received a rukka from
 Ct. Sanjay sent by SI Manjeet Tomar and recorded present FIR as Ex. PW­
 10/A. He also proved his endorsement on rukka as Ex. PW­10/B. 26. PW­11 Gulab Singh has deposed that he is having motorcycle Citi­ 100
 bearing no. 7415. He further deposed that while he was sitting on vegetable
 shop Ombir and Vipin came to ask for motorcycle and he gave the same to
 them. Late on he came to know both the accused involved in trafficking of
 fake currency notes. This witness could not recollect the date of incident
 but on asking by Ld. State Counsel he affirmed that date of incident as
 06.07.2009. 27. PW­12 HC Satyapal again a member of the raiding team has deposed on
 the similar lines as PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar and PW­19, IO/SI Manjeet
 Tomar and corroborated the testimony of these witnesses. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 14 of 102 28. PW­13 Constable Sanjay again a member of the raiding team has deposed
 on the similar lines as PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar and PW­19, IO/SI
 Manjeet Tomar and corroborated the testimony of these witnesses. 29. PW­14 Constable Manoj again a member of the raiding team has deposed
 on the similar lines as PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar and PW­19, IO/SI
 Manjeet Tomar and corroborated the testimony of these witnesses. 30. PW­15 HC Chand Ram, MHC(M), Crime Branch has deposed that on
 01.07.2009 he was posted as MHC(M) and on the same day, on 05.07.2009
 and 07.07.2009, IO deposited the case property in sealed condition which
 he entered in the record. This witness has also deposed that on 26.07.09 he
 sent 6 pulandas of fake currency and CFSL form through HC Surender to
 currency note press Nasik vide RC no. 222/21 and have also deposed that
 on 31.07.2009 HC Surender had returned back and deposited one pulanda
 duly sealed with the seal of security press, Nasik. This witness has proved
 relevant entries of register no. 19 collectively as Ex. PW15/A and copy of
 register no. 19 collectively as Ex. PW15/B. 31. PW­16 Inspector Ashok Sharma again a member of the raiding team and
 has deposed on the similar line as PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar and PW­19,
 IO/SI Manjeet Tomar and corroborated the testimony of these witnesses.
 This witness has also deposed that he being the senior officer was

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 15 of 102
 supervising the raiding team. 32. PW­17 Prakash Sadasiv Ughade has deposed that on 27.07.2009 while he
 was posted as Works Manager in Currency Note Press, Nasik and received
 2120 notes of Rs. 500/­ each of different numbers. After examining the said
 notes he prepared his report Ex. PW­7/A and sent back to ACP Crime
 Branch alongwith the currency notes in sealed condition. 33. PW­20 ASI Satyawan is a witness of formal nature pertaining to the arrest
 of accused Mohd. Muslim pursuant to DD no. 29B and have deposed that
 he apprehended accused Mohd. Muslim near Mundka Metro Station, West
 with the help of Ct. Vinod and Neeraj and arrested him vide arrest memo
 Ex. PW20/A and personal search memo Ex. PW20/B and also prepared the
 kalandra u/s. 41(1)D Cr.PC Ex. PW20/C. 34. PW­21 HC Rajender again a witness of formal nature who joined the
 investigation of this case in the court while accused Mohd. Muslim was
 being produced int eh court by IO SI Manjeet Tomar. He proved the
 disclosure statement of accused Mohd. Muslim recorded by IO as Ex.
 PW21/A. He also deposed that accused was arrested by IO vide arrest
 memo Ex. PW21/B and personal search was conducted vide memo Ex.
 PW21/C.

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 16 of 102 35. PW­22 Rajiv Ranjan, Nodal Officer, Tata Tele Services has deposed and
 proved the record already proved by PW­4 M.N. Vijiayan, Nodal Officer of
 Tata Tele Services Ltd. qua accused Mohd. Muslim. 36. PW­18 is Inspector Ram Avtar, who has deposed as under : 37. PW­19 Inspector Manjeet Tomar has deposed as under : STATEMENT OF ACCUSED 38. After closing the prosecution evidence statement of all the accused
 persons u/s. 313 Cr.PC were recorded wherein they pleaded their
 innocence stating that nothing has been recovered from them or
 their instances. It is also pleaded that entire prosecution case based
 on fabricated/concocted false story and alleged recovery have been
 planted. However, none of the accused lead any defence evidence in
 their defence. 39. Thereafter, I heard final arguments on behalf of all the accused
 persons as well as State. The argument of the parties are as under : 40. (i) On behalf of accused Shan Mohd. and Mohd. Naim it is
 vehemently argued that PW­3 ASI Subodh Kumar was examined as
 decoy customer to deal with accused Mohd. Naim and Shanu by
 using the word "Chamra" but this story is not probable as fake
 currency cannot be handed over to a stranger on asking by using word
 "Chamra Doge" to the unknown fellow. Further PW­3 in his statement

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 44 of 102
 u/s. 161 Cr.PC only stated the word "deal" and not used word
 "Chamra Doge". Hence, it is argued that there was no such deal as
 deposed by PW­3 Subodh. Therefore, he is a planted witness. (ii) It is further argued that both the accused persons are falsely
 implicated into present case by lifting from their houses by planting
 counterfeit currency as both the accused persons were already involve
 in similar offence and police was having huge fake currency. (iii) It is also argued that no independent public person was made
 witness to the recovery despite availability. The explanation given by
 IO for non joining of public witness is improbable in usual course of
 human conduct. (iv) It is also argued that as per prosecution story rukka was send at
 9:00 pm wherein the fact of seizure memo A,B and C qua recovery of
 fake currency is mentioned where as PW­3 in his cross examination
 has admitted that seizure memo was prepared at about 11:30­12
 midnight. Hence, it is argued that FIR is "ante time". (v) It is further argued that PW­5 HC Rishi Pal who is examined as
 shadow witness and witness to the factum of recovery is a hearsay
 witness as whatever he deposited about the deal with the accused
 persons is a hearsay evidence as he himself had no deal with the
 accused persons. Hence, his testimony is hit by section 6 of Indian
 Evidence Act. (vi) It is further argued that name of decoy customer at point 'A' in the

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 45 of 102
 site plan not written. Hence, decoy customer is planted later on It is
 also argued that part A,B,C are not properly written in the site plan. (vii) It is also argued that no details of government vehicle Qualis
 which was allegedly uses for raid provided. Even its log book showing
 the entry not proved on record. Even no number of said vehicle is
 mentioned in the site plan. (viii) it is also vehemently argued that alleged recovery of fake
 currency from the house of PW­6 Smt. Zaitoon is not made at the
 instance of accused Shan Mohd. as admitted by PW­19 in cross­
 examination . Therefore, it is further argued that as the alleged suit
 case was handed over by PW­6, hence, sections 100 , 165 & 166 Cr.PC
 are applicable. But said procedure of search and seizure not followed. (ix) It is also vehemently argued that PW­19 SI Manjeet Tomar is the
 complainant as well as IO which is not permissible in law. Hence at
 the strength of case law titled as " Mohan Lal Vs. State of Punjab ,
 2018 (4) JCC (NAR) 228 and Bhagwan Singh Vs. State of Rajasthan,
 AIR 1976 SC 985" it is argued that entire case of prosecution goes and
 accused persons are entitled for acquittal. (x) It is also argued that FSL report Ex.PW17/A has no evidential
 value and is not admissible in evidence as in the report there is no
 mention of any description of seal with which 6 polythene papers were
 sealed nor there is any mention about any FSL form. It is further
 argued that PW­17 in his statement has not mentioned about his

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 46 of 102
 qualification or his experience to discern between the genuine
 currency notes and fake currency notes. He just mentioned to be
 working as Work Manager in the currency note press but have not
 mentioned from when he is posted there. To substantiate his argument,
 Ld. Counsel relied the case law titled as " State of Himachel Pradesh
 Vs. Jai Lal and others , AIR 1999 SC 3318". (xi) It is also argued that since PW­6 Zaitoon declared hostile and did
 not support the prosecution version the important link qua recovery at
 the instance of accused Shan Mohd. is missing. 41. (i) On behalf of accused Mohd. Shahrukh and Mohd. Muslim, besides
 addressing the above arguments, it is also argued that in the absence of
 corroboration of prosecution version from independent person under
 these circumstances that no sincere efforts was made by the IO to join
 the public witness create serious doubt regarding the alleged raid on
 subsequent recovery. It is also argued that no videography of the spot
 of raid at any point of time was made. (ii) On behalf of accused Mohd. Muslim, it is argued that no recovery
 of any kind either from personal search or at the instance of accused
 affected. Even there is no evidence of conspiracy. (iii) It is also argued on behalf of Mohd. Muslim that IO could not
 planted the fake currency as accused was arrested during the trial as
 initially he was P.O.

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 47 of 102 42. (i) On behalf of accused Ombir Singh, it is argued by Ld. Counsel that
 recovery and arrest of accused and consequent recovery near
 Aggarwal Sweets is not proved and hence false. It is further argued
 that a disclosure was made by co­accused Mohd. Naim on 02.07.2009
 and the names of accused and co­accused Vipin Gupta were though
 mentioned in the said disclosure, but no efforts have been made by the
 Investigating Officer PW­19 SI Manjeet Tomar to arrest any of them
 till 06.07.2009 when it is alleged that a supplementary disclosure
 statement was recorded. It is further argued that no explanation has
 come on record as to why for 05 days, no investigation or disclosure
 was got recorded by the IO of accused Mohd. Naim, which creates a
 serious doubt about supplementary disclosure statement obtained on
 06.07.2009. It is further argued that the said fact even not mentioned
 in the remand application moved by IO for seeking remand of three
 accused persons, who were arrested on 01.07.2009. It is further argued
 that in the entire disclosure statement recorded on 06.07.2009 of
 accused Mohd. Naim, the name of accused Ombir not mentioned, only
 the name of accused Vipin Gupta is mentioned there. It is further
 argued that the disclosure statement of accused Mohd. Naim and vipin
 gupta are not admissible in evidence at the strength of law laid down
 in case titled as Aghnoo Nagesia Vs. State of Bihar . AIR 1966 SC 119.

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 48 of 102 (ii)It is further argued that as per the prosecution case accused Vipin
 Gupta and Ombir stated to have gone on the spot by motorcycle
 bearing No. DL­4SAY­7415, which belongs to PW­11 Gulab Singh
 S/o Moji Ram and this PW has given his age in the witness box as 20
 years on 31.03.2010, however, record shows that the said motorcycle
 was purchased about 7­8 years back, hence, it is argued that at the
 time of registration of the vehicle PW­11 was minor and no
 registration can be made as per law in his name. It is further argued
 that bare perusal of the seizure memo of the motorcycle shows that no
 keys of the said vehicle were seized. It is further argued that as
 deposed by PW12 Satya Pal that both the accused namely Vipin Gupta
 and Ombir were wearing helmet, but no such helmet has been seized
 as per seizure memo. It is further argued that even the seizure memo
 does not bear the signature of accused Ombir. It is further argued that
 PW­11 during cross­examination has admitted that he has not stated to
 the police the name of accused Ombir accompanied with Vipin Gupta
 and Anand to take his motorcycle, but in the witness box he has
 improved his statement by mentioning the name of accused Ombir,
 which is a material improvement. To substantiate his arguments Ld.
 Counsel has relied the case titled as Yudhishtir Vs. The State of
 Madhya Pradesh, 1971 CAR 247 (SC). (iii) It is further argued that as admitted by PW­12 HC Satya Pal, PW­
 18 Inspector Ram Avtar and PW­19 SI Manjeet Tomar, IO that

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 49 of 102
 Aggarwal Sweets was opened at the time of raid but no efforts have
 been made by the IO to join any independent public witness from
 Aggarwal Sweets or nearby shops and this assumes importance when
 it is admitted by all these witnesses that on 06.07.2009 they had
 reached at the spot at about 6.00/6.30 pm, while the accused persons
 had come there at about 10.30 pm and IO was having sufficient time
 to call an independent person to join the proceedings. Hence, it is
 further argued that entire search and seizure at the spot is highly
 doubtful. To substantiate his arguments Ld. Counsel has relied the
 case titled as Rattan Lal vs. State , 1987 (32) Delhi Law Times. (iv)It is further argued that PW­12 HC Satya Pal and PW­18 Inspector
 Ram Avtar, both have deposed that dummy packet was prepared in
 their presence but surprisingly, PW­18 has deposed that "it is correct
 that I did not know the contents of dummy packet. It is correct that I
 do not know whether the dummy packet contain actual or fake
 currency. I did not see the dummy packet from the date of raid till
 today. It is correct that I do not know the contents of the dummy
 packet". It is further argued that per contra, PW­19 IO Manjeet Tomar
 has admitted that "he prepared a dummy packet containing blank
 white papers", therefore, by his own admission no fake currency notes
 were there in the alleged dummy packet, therefore, hence, there was
 no transactions or exchange of fake currency notes have taken place
 between co­accused Vipin and accused Mohd. Naim. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 50 of 102 (v) With regard to recovery of two currency notes of Rs.500/­
 denomination, it is argued that PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar has
 admitted that he was not remembering from which pocket of accused,
 the fake currency notes were recovered. It is further argued that the
 fake currency notes and actual currency notes were kept together in
 the pocket when the same was allegedly recovered by the IO. It is
 further argued that on the contrary, PW­19 IO Manjeet Tomar and
 PW­12 HC Satya Pal had stated that fake currency notes were
 recovered from the purse of accused Ombir. It is further argued that as
 per personal search memo Ex.PW­18/S, one black colour purse was
 also recovered containing Rs.630/­ along with other articles. Hence, it
 is argued that as per prosecution witnesses the fact is that two fake
 currency notes were found lying with the original currency notes, no
 knowledge can be attributed to accused Ombir with regard to the two
 fake currency notes. It is further argued that in these circumstances it
 cannot be attributed that accused was having reason to believe that
 two notes were fake or any mens rea as required to attract Section
 489C. To substantiate his arguments Ld. Counsel has relied the case
 titled as State (Delhi Admn) Vs. Pawan Kumar Garg , 1986 (1)
 RCR Page 142. (vi) It is further argued that the apprehension of the accused on
 06.07.2009 at 10.30 pm near Aggarwal Sweets is apparently false and
 fabricated. It is further argued that otherwise also that does not

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 51 of 102
 connect the accused with the commission of offence under Section
 489B IPC because no fake currency notes have been handed over to
 co­accused Vipin Gupta, hence, there is no application of Section
 489C IPC or other provisions of IPC with regard to incident. To
 substantiate his arguments Ld. Counsel has relied the case titled as
 Gurnam Singh Vs. State, Paragraph, 1992 (1) RCR page 661. (vii) It is further argued that the testimony of PW­4 MN Vijayan,
 Nodal Officer, qua proving CDRs of mobile phone bearing No.
 9278064305 allegedly belonging to co­accused Vipin Gupta is of no
 use and cannot be read into evidence as no Certificate u/s. 65 ­B of the
 Evidence Act filed and proved on record. (viii) It is further argued that investigations in the present case are
 biased, tainted and lop sided from the very inception. It is further
 argued that the entire investigation in this case is illegal as the secret
 information as per the admitted case of the prosecution was received
 by PW­19 SI Manjeet Tomar and it was Manjeet Tomar who has
 further carried out investigation, arrested the accused persons, made
 the search and seizures and also on 06.07.2009 and investigation after
 registration of the FIR was assigned to him, conducted by him and
 filed the report u/s. 173 Cr.PC, which is not permissible in law. Hence,
 it is contended that accused persons are entitled for acquittal only on
 this count. To substantiate his arguments Ld. Counsel has relied the
 case titled as Mohan Lal Vs. State of Punjab , 2018(4) JCC (NAR)

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 52 of 102
 228 and Bhagwan Singh Vs. State of Rajasthan , AIR 1976 SC 985. (ix) It is further argued that as admitted by the IO the seal of "MT"
 after use was kept by the IO himself and he has not given it to any
 witness including PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar. It is further argued
 that as admitted by PW­19 SI Manjeet Tomar that he has not filled up
 any FSL form at the spot or thereafter, inter alia, meaning thereby that
 the link evidence is missing as well as the tampering of the case
 property cannot be ruled out in the present case. To substantiate his
 arguments Ld. Counsel has relied the case titled as Sher Singh Walia
 Vs. State NCT Delhi , 2000 (2) JCC (Delhi) 538 and Pardeep
 Kumar Vs. State, 1989(2) Chd. Law Reporter. (x) It is further argued that even the evidence of PW­17 Parkash
 Sadasive Ughade is of no use to the prosecution as in his report Ex.
 PW­17/A this witness has not mentioned about the number of two
 fake currency notes examined by him. It is also argued that there is no
 mention of any description of seal with which the alleged six
 polythene papers were sealed nor there is any mention of receipt of
 any FSL form along with the said parcels, hence, it cannot be said that
 what has been seized was in fact the same fake currency notes which
 were sent to Currency Press, Nasik. It is further argued that the report
 Ex.PW17/A is not a reliable report and cannot be acted upon because
 PW­17 in his statement has not mentioned about his qualification or
 his experience to discern between the genuine currency notes and fake

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 53 of 102
 currency notes. It is further argued that PW­17 has just mentioned to
 be working as a Work Manager and even he has not mentioned since
 when he was posted in the Currency Note Press, Nasik. To
 substantiate his arguments Ld. Counsel has relied the case titled as State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. Jai Lal & Ors. , AIR 1999 SC 3318. (xi) It is further argued that even no offence u/s. 489­B IPC is proved
 against the accused as no ingredient of Section 489­B are made
 out from the evidence come on record regarding sale or buy or
 receiving of any counterfeit currency notes or being used as a genuine
 notes doing its trafficking knowing or having reasons to believe the
 same to be forged. In view of the above arguments, it is vehemently argued that it is a
 settled proposition of law that once the investigation is found to be
 biased and tainted then whole investigation is open to serious doubts
 and lacunae. It is also argued that the candid principle of law that the
 prosecution has to prove its case from beyond reasonable doubt and it
 is not the preponderance of probabilities, but the rule of law is that the
 case must be proved against the culprits and this whole distance has to
 be travelled by the prosecution from "may be true" to the "must be
 true". It is also argued that the mere fact that accused is not able to
 show his animosity with the police officials for involving him in a
 case shall not be a ground to convict him. To substantiate his
 arguments Ld. Counsel has relied the cases titled as State of A.P. Vs.

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 54 of 102
 Punati Ramulu and Ors., 1994, SCC (Crl. ), Balwant Singh Vs.
 State , 1976, Chandigarh Law Reporter, Kailash Gour & Ors. Vs.
 State of Assam, CRL. Appeal No. 1068/2006 and State (Delhi
 Admn.) Vs. Kham Chand. Cr. A. 179 of 1979. Therefore, in view of the above arguments, it is submitted by Ld.
 Counsel for accused that the prosecution has been miserably failed to
 prove any of the charges against the accused Ombir Singh u/s. 489­
 B/489­C/120­B/34 IPC , accused may be acquitted for the charge. 43. (i) On behalf of accused Vipin Gupta besides advancing general
 arguments qua the recovery etc. as mentioned above, it is specifically
 argued that name of accused Vipin Gupta not mentioned in the first
 disclosure statement dated 02.07.2009 of accused Mohd. Naim. His
 name is mentioned in the second disclosure statement dated
 06.07.2009. (ii) It is further argued that mobile phone of accused Mohd. Naim
 allegedly used to make call to accused Vipin Gupta was recovered on
 01.07.2009 from his personal search and thereafter said phone was
 taken out from the sealed pullanda and accused Naim was asked to
 make a call to accused Vipin Gupta and thereafter, alleged raid was
 conducted near Aggarwal Sweets Shop. But IO in his testimony did
 not speak about the seizure of mobile phone on 01.07.2009 and again
 re­opening of sealed pulanda and taken out the mobile phone which

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 55 of 102
 creates serious doubt about the raid conducted as alleged. (iii) It is further argued that call details, record of mobile phone of
 accused Mohd. Naim was not taken from the concerned authority
 by the IO and placed on record. (vi) It is further argued that the CDR of mobile no. 9278064305
 allegedly recovered from accused Vipin Gupta proved by PW­4, who
 has deposed that the sim used in the mobile phone was registered in
 the name of one Baldev Singh but prosecution did not make any effort
 to examine said Baldev Singh about the using of said sim reason best
 known to it. It is also argued that only Baldev Singh could have prove
 that said mobile phone belongs to Vipin Gupta which is not done in
 this case. (vi) It is further argued that electronic record of CDR of mobile phone
 no. 9278064305 produced in the court without any certificate u/s. 65B
 (4) of Evidence Act. Hence, at the strength of law laid down in "Anwar PV Vs. P.K. Bhaskar and ors. (2014) SCC 473" the said
 electronic record cannot be read into evidence being the secondary
 evidence. (vii) It is further argued that the motorcycle allegedly used by accused
 Vipin Gupta and Ombir on 06.07.2009 does not belongs to them but
 same belongs to PW­11 Gulab Singh and his testimony is inconsistent.
 PW­11 has deposed that Ombir and Vipin had come and asked for
 motorcycle but in cross examination, he admitted that he did not know

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 56 of 102
 Vipin Kumar Gupta and deposed that he handed over the custody of
 motorcycle to one Anand. This witness has also stated that he had
 given the name of Ombir in his statement to the IO but on
 confrontation from his statement this fact was not found mentioned.
 Hence, it is argued that once PW­11 has categorically that he do not
 know accused Vipin Gupta, it is not possible to give his motorcycle to
 a stranger. As such the testimony of PW­11 is unworthy of credit and
 cannot be relied upon. (viii) It is further argued that as per the case of prosecution raiding
 team reached near the Aggarwal Sweet Shops about 6/6:30 pm and
 remained there about three and half hr. but no sincere efforts were
 made by IO to call any independent public person , specially from
 shop of Aggarwal Sweet shop to join the raiding party which caste the
 serious doubt about the raid. (ix) It is also argued that PW­19, SI Manjeet Tomar has stated that
 accused Ombir handed over Pittoo Bag to Mohd. Naim and in turn
 Mohd. Naim handed over dummy packet to him and this story is also
 reiterated by PW­18 as well. But this story is not in consonance with
 the story of prosecution as Ex.PW12/A bears the signature of accused
 Vipin Kumar as well as Ombir Singh which is not possible. It is also
 argued that PW­12 HC Satpal has also given a different story that
 Pitto Bag was handed over by accused Ombir to Mohd. Naim and
 Mohd. Naim was handed over dummy packet to accused Vipin Gupta

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 57 of 102
 which is contradicting the testimony of PW­18 and PW­19. (x) It is also argued that alleged recovery of four currency fake notes
 is not corroborated by any independent witness though there was
 ample opportunity to associate the independent person from the
 nearby buildings. (xi) It is further argued qua the recovery of printer, scanner, core etc.
 and opening of room at third floor that despite the opportunity the
 landlord was not called to join the proceedings of recovery which
 creates serious doubt. It is also argued that even no public witness
 was called to join the proceedings at the flat. It is also argued that
 statement of landlord was not recorded regarding tenancy premises in
 order to prove that who was using the said room. 44. Therefore, in view of the above arguments, it is vehemently argued by
 Ld. Counsel for all accused persons that prosecution has miserable
 failed to prove the charge against the accused persons, hence, they
 may be acquitted. 45. On behalf of State, it is vehemently argued by Ld. Addl. PP for the
 State that prosecution case depends on the testimony of PWs ­ 3, 6, 7,
 9, 11, 17, 18 and 19 being the material witnesses. It is further argued
 that PW­17 has categorically deposed that total 2120 fake currency
 notes in the denomination of Rs. 500/­ sent to Currency note press,

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 58 of 102
 Nasik. It is further argued that accused Shan Mohd. and Mohd. Naim
 also previously involved in the similar offences which shown their
 conduct. It is further argued that huge amount of fake currency cannot
 be planted. Hence, it is argued that the arguments of false implication
 by planting the fake currency is baseless. It is further argued that
 minor contradictions, not fatal to the prosecution case, which are
 bound to happen as a human nature may be ignored. It is also argued
 that public persons who have not joined the investigation, proper
 explanation have come on record in this record in the testimony of
 PW­19, IO. PW­19, SI Manjeet Tomar. 46. It is also argued that no question put to the IO why accused persons
 have been falsely implicated in this case so that proper explanation
 could be come on record. It is further argued that qua the search and
 seizure of the fake currency, as per section 166 Cr.PC in case of
 urgency requirement of two respectable persons as a witness to the
 search and seizure can be waived off. It is further argued that on the
 aspect of raid conducted on different places by the same IO, it is
 argued that present case pertained to the crime branch being
 exercising jurisdiction all over Delhi. It is further argued that no
 complaint to any department including the police lodged by any of the
 accused persons qua planting of fake currency, lifting of accused
 persons from their house. It is further argued the qua recovery of suit

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 59 of 102
 case containing fake currency, handing over the same, proper
 explanation has been given by the IO in his testimony stating that said
 suit case was handed over by PW Zaitoon. It is further argued that it is
 not necessary in a case where complainant and investigating officer is
 the same person, accused persons are entitled for acquittal. Therefore,
 the argument of defence that in the present case complainant and IO is
 the same officer is baseless. Lastly, it is argued that by murdering a
 person, accused ruined one family as well as create danger in the
 society but by circulating the fake currency it ruins the economy of the
 currency. Therefore, it is argued that prosecution has successfully able
 to prove the charge against all the accused persons on the basis of
 unimpeached / trustworthy testimony of witnesses, hence, all the
 accused persons may be convicted and sentenced as per law. Analysis of evidence, reasons and decisions 47. The entire prosecution case and evidence lead by it relates to three
 incident of recovery of counterfeit currency, computer, printer,
 scanner etc. from or at the instance of accused persons. (i) First incident pertains to raid conducted on 01.07.2009 near metro
 station Rajouri Garden where three accused persons namely Shan
 Mohd., Mohd. Naim and Mohd. Shahrukh were apprehended and
 raiding team recovered counterfeit currency worth Rs. 20,000/­, Rs. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 60 of 102
 18,000/­ and Rs. 7500/­ all in denomination of Rs. 500/­ respectively. (ii) Second incident pertains to recovery of suit case containing
 counterfeit currency worth Rs. 10,11,500/­ in denomination of Rs.
 500/­ from the House of PW­6 Zaitoon, Village, near Buland Shahar,
 U.P. on 05.07.2009 at the instance of accused Shan Mohd. pursuant to
 supplementary disclosure statement. (iii) Third incident pertains to raid conducted pursuant to
 supplementary disclosure statement of accused Mohd. Naim at
 Aggarwal Sweets, Jahangir Puri, Delhi on 06.07.2009 and recovered
 fake currency i.e. four (4) notes of Rs. 500/­ from accused Vipin
 Gupta and Two (2) notes of Rs. 500/­ from accused Ombir Singh and
 Rs. 25,000/­ original Indian Currency from Pithoo Bag and on the
 same night further recovery of electronic equipment i.e. computer,
 printer, scanner etc. from the rented house of accused Vipin Gupta
 pursuant to his disclosure statement from his rented house, premises
 no. 141 at Sector­22, Pocket­15, Rohini, Delhi. 48. In K. Hasim -Vs­ State of Tamil Nadu AIR 2005 SC 128 Hon'ble
 Supreme Court had occasion to discuss the importance and ingredients
 of Section 489A to 489E along with Section 28 of the Indian Penal
 Code. For ready reference the relevant paragraphs are reproduced
 below: 49. The expression 'counterfeit' is defined in Section 28 , IPC. The same
 reads as follows : 50. Sections 489A to 489E deal with various economic offences in respect
 of forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes. The object of
 legislature in enacting these provisions is not only to protect the
 economy of the country but also to provide adequate protection to
 currency notes and bank notes. 51. Section 489A not only deals with complete act of counterfeiting but also
 covers the case where the accused performs any part of the process of
 counterfeiting. Therefore, if the material shows that the accused
 knowingly performed any part of the process of counterfeiting, Section
 489A becomes applicable. 52. Similarly Section 489B relates to using as genuine forged or
 counterfeited currency notes or bank notes. The object of Legislature in
 enacting this section is to stop the circulation of forged notes by
 punishing all persons who knowing or having reason to believe the
 same to be forged do any act which could lead to their circulation. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 63 of 102 53. Section 489C deals with possession of forged or counterfeit currency
 notes or bank notes. It makes possession of forged and counterfeited
 currency notes or bank notes punishable. Possession and knowledge that
 the currency notes were counterfeited notes are necessary ingredients to
 constitute offence under Sections 489C and 489D. As was observed by
 this Court in State of Kerala vs. Mathai Verghese and Ors. (AIR 1987
 SC 33) the expression 'currency notes' is large and wide enough in its
 amplitude to cover the currency notes of any country. Section 489C is
 not restricted to Indian currency note alone but it includes dollar also
 and it applies to American dollar bills.). 54. The wording of Section 489D is very wide and would clearly cover a
 case where a person is found in possession of machinery, instrument or
 materials for the purpose of being used for counterfeiting currency
 notes, even though the machinery, instruments or materials so found
 were not all the materials particulars required for the purpose of
 counterfeiting. 55. Section 28 defines the word 'counterfeiting' in very wide terms. The
 main ingredients of counterfeiting as laid down in Section 28 are : Thus, if one thing is made to resemble another thing and the
 intention is that by such resemblance deception would be
 practised or even if there is no intention but it is known to be
 likely that the resemblance is such that deception will thereby
 be practised there is counterfeiting. (See The State of Uttar
 Pradesh vs. I. Hafiz Mohd. Ismail (AIR 1960 SC 669))." 56. In the said case it was observed that there is no necessity of importing
 words like "colourable imitation" therein. In order to apply Section 28 what the Court has to see is whether one thing is made to resemble
 another thing and if that is so and if the resemblance is such that a
 person might be deceived by it, there will be a presumption of the
 necessary intention or knowledge to make the thing counterfeit, unless
 the contrary is proved. 57. "Counterfeit" in Section 28 does not connote an exact reproduction of
 the original counterfeited. The Explanation 2 of Section 28 is of great
 significance. It lays down a rebuttable presumption where resemblance
 is such that a person might be deceived thereby. In such a case the
 intention or the knowledge is presumed unless contrary is proved." 58. Further in Umashankar­vs­ State of Chhattisgarh AIR 2001 SC 3074
 Hon'ble Supreme Court states that mens rea is the main of the main

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 65 of 102
 criteria to defetermine the offence U/s 489­B to 489­C IPC " 8. A perusal of the provisions, extracted above, shows that
 mens rea of offences under Section 489­B and 489­C is,
 "knowing or having reason to believe the currency notes or
 bank­notes are forged or counterfeit". Without the
 aforementioned mens rea selling, buying or receiving from
 another person or otherwise trafficking in or using as genuine
 forged or counterfeit currency­notes or bank notes is not enough
 to constitute offence under Section 489­B of I.P.C . So also
 possessing or even intending to use any forged or counterfeit
 currency­notes or bank­notes is not sufficient to make out a case
 under Section 489­C in the absence of the mens rea, noted
 above. No material is brought on record by the prosecution to
 show that the appellant had the requisite mens rea. The High
 Court, however, completely missed this aspect. The learned
 trial Judge on the basis of the evidence of PW 2, PW 4 and
 PW 7 that they were able to make out that currency note alleged
 to have been given to PW 4, was fake "presumed" such a mens
 rea. On the date of the incident the appellant was said to be 18
 years old student. On the facts of this case the presumption
 drawn by the trial Court is not warranted under Section 4 of the
 Evidence Act. Further it is also not shown that any specific
 question with regard to the currency­notes being fake or
 counterfeit was put to the appellant in his examination under Section 313 of Criminal Procedure Code. On these facts we have
 no option but to hold that the charges framed under Sections
 489­B and 489­C are not proved. We, therefore, set aside the
 conviction and sentence passed on the appellant under Sections
 489­B and 489­C of I.P.C . and acquit him of the said charges
 [See : M. Mammutti vs. State of Karnataka AIR 1979 SC 1705." 59. Firstly, I will deal the common argument advanced on behalf of all the
 accused persons that in the present case complainant and the
 investigator is the same person, which is not permissible in law and all
 the accused persons are entitled for acquittal only on this count. To
 substantiate their arguments, Ld. Counsel has relied upon Mohan Lal

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 66 of 102
 and Bhagwan Singh's case (supra). 60. Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled Mukesh Singh Vs. State (Narcotics
 Branch of Delhi) SLP (Criminal) Diary no. 39528/2018 held as under : 61. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the above judgment also held as under : 62. Therefore, in view of law laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 Mukesh Singh (supra) the contention of accused persons that since PW­
 19 SI Manjeet Tomar is the complainant as well as Investigating Officer
 (IO), they are entitled for acquittal on this count only is not tenable.
 However, as Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that aspect of bias or real
 likelihood of bias as contended by accused persons will be assessed
 while appreciating the evidence of IO and other prosecution witnesses.
 Further, the contention of accused persons that all the witnesses
 examined qua the proceeding of recovery of counterfeit currency are
 police witnesses only and are biased also has no force in view of law
 laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mukesh Singh's judgment
 (supra), where it has been held that testimony of police personnel will be
 treated in the same manner as testimony of any other witnesses. Hence,
 in short the contention of accused persons of bias and unfair
 investigation shall be decided by appreciating the testimony of each

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 68 of 102
 prosecution witness in the context of facts and circumstances of the
 present case. 63. Now, I will deal with the another common argument advanced on behalf
 of all the accused persons it is contended that FSL report Ex.PW17/A
 has no evidential value and is not admissible in evidence as in the report
 there is no mention of any description of seal with which 6 polythene
 papers were sealed nor there is any mention about any FSL form. It is
 further argued that PW­17 in his statement has not mentioned about his
 qualification or his experience to discern between the genuine currency
 notes and fake currency notes. He just mentioned to be working as Work
 Manager in the currency note press but have not mentioned from when
 he is posted there. To substantiate his argument, Ld. Counsel relied the
 case law titled as " State of Himachel Pradesh Vs. Jai Lal and others ,
 AIR 1999 SC 3318". This argument has no force as report Ex. PW­17/A
 is prepared by PW­17, who proved the same in the witness box and in
 the report itself all the objections have been dealt with and the details of
 the examination are also mentioned therein stating that the referred
 suspected notes are examined here in detail by comparing with genuine
 specimen note with the help of modern scientific instrument. Record
 also speaks that this witness is cross­examined by all the accused
 persons except accused Shan Mohd., Mohd. Naim and Mohd. Shahrukh,
 who did not prefer to cross examine the witness, reason best known to

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 69 of 102
 them despite opportunity. PW­17 at the relevant time was working as
 Works Manager in Currency Note Press, Nasik and was a class I officer
 as mentioned in the report. The case law cited above is distinguishable
 on facts as in the present case accused persons were having opportunity
 to put the question regarding qualification, expertise etc. to the witness
 but no such question was put to the witness. Even Ex. PW­17/A speaks
 that fake currency notes were received in sealed condition in 6 pulandas
 from HC Surender and there were total 2120 notes which were
 examined. Not only this the said currency notes after examination were
 sent to ACP Crime Branch in sealed condition and record also speaks
 that the said currency note for the first time produced in the court in the
 testimony of PW­1 SI Gyaneshwar Buddha on 27.01.2010, who
 identified the same as Ex.P3. Record also speaks that the pulandas were
 sealed with the seal of Currency Note Press, Nasik and also bearing
 stamp of examined by official concerned. Therefore, I hold that
 objection qua the non admissibility of the report Ex. PW­17/A is
 baseless. 64. Now, I will appreciate the evidence of prosecution witness in the contest
 of specific instance of raid conducted on different dates, time and
 places, wherein counterfeit currency notes were recovered and seized. Raid conducted near Rajouri Garden Metro Station on 01.07.2009

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 70 of 102 65. As per prosecution case and the evidence come on record that on secret
 information a raid was conducted on 01.07.2009 near Rajouri Garden,
 Metro Station where three accused persons namely Shan Mohd., Mohd.
 Naim and Mohd. Shahrukh were apprehended and raiding team
 recovered counterfeit currency worth Rs. 20,000/­, Rs. 18,000/­ and Rs.
 7500/­ all in denomination of Rs. 500/­ respectively. 66. As per the case of prosecution, DD no. 8 Dated 01.07.2009 was
 recorded at 2:30 pm by PW­19 SI Manjeet Tomar on the specific secret
 information that accused Mohd Naim and Shan Mohd. would come with
 counterfeit currency to deliver the same to their customer by using code
 word "Chamra". This information was shared with senior official who
 directed to proceed as per law and thereafter, raiding team proceeded for
 the spot vide DD no. 12 dated 01.07.2009 at about 5 pm from Chankya
 puri Crime office and reached at Rajouri Garden Metro Station at about
 6 pm. As per testimony of PW, who examined qua this raid, IO / SI
 Manjeet Tomar requested 6­7 persons to join the raiding party but none
 agreed. Thereafter, without wasting their time PW­3 HC Subhodh was
 depute as decoy customer and PW­5 HC Rishi Pal was deployed as
 Shadow witness. 67. The main thrust of arguments advanced on behalf of accused persons
 namely Mohd. Naim, Shan Mohd. and Mohd. Shahrukh is that no raid

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 71 of 102
 as alleged was conducted nor any fake currency was recovered. It was
 also contended that all the accused persons were lifted from their houses
 and falsely arrested in this case by planting the fake currency. It is also
 contended that there is no independent witness was examined to prove
 the factum of recovery despite opportunity. On the contrary Ld. State
 counsel has argued that plausible explanation has come on record for
 non joining of public witness in the testimony of IO. It is also contended
 that time and again superior court has held that non joining of public
 witness to the proceeding of recovery is not fatal if otherwise the
 evidence of police witnesses inspire confidence in the mind of court and
 is trustworthy. It is further contended that such a huge currency cannot
 be planted. 68. Further, PW19 SI Manjeet Tomar has deposed that during search of
 accused Mohd. Naim one E­ticket alongwith fine receipt of railway was
 also recovered and seized by IO vide memo Ex. PW19/C. PW9 Ravi
 Kalra has deposed that on 26.07.2009, a ticket was booked from his
 shop as he was doing the work of booking of E­ticket in the name of
 two persons namely Wasim and Naim. PW9 has further deposed
 that said ticket was belongs to Amritsar Express Train no. 5708
 from Delhi to Gorakhpur. This witness has proved the E­ticket and
 access fair ticket as PW9/A and has also deposed that he has handed
 over copy of electronic reservation slip to IO vide memo Ex. PW7/A.

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 72 of 102
 Therefore, it is contended on behalf of State that prosecution has proved
 that before the raid on 01.07.2009 accused Mohd. Naim and Shan
 Mohd. Performed journey on 26.06.2009 from Delhi to Gorakhpur and
 from Gorakhpur to Nepal and from there collected huge counterfeit
 currency as seized in this case in connivance of accused Mohd. Mulim.
 This court respectfully do not agree with the contention of State on the
 ground that electronic E­reservation slip Ex. PW7/B, E­ticket Ex
 PW9/A both are computer generation documents and to prove both
 these documents certificate u/s. 65B Evidence Act is required which is
 not on record. Further, these documents were proved by the prosecution
 by PW9 Ravi Kalra, who is not the author of these documents, hence,
 these documents are not proved as per law. Furthermore, as per E­ticket
 Ex. PW7/B same were booked in the name of Mohd. Naim and Mohd.
 Vasim. No evidence has come on record whether accused Mohd. Shanu
 is the same persons, who travelled in the train on 26.06.2009 as Mohd.
 Vasim. Simply, because the said E­ticket were seized by IO from Mohd.
 Naim, it cannot be treated as proved document. 69. I am in agreement with the arguments of state that such a huge currency
 cannot be planted. However, to counter this argument of State it is
 contended that as accused Shan Mohd. And Mohd. Naim were already
 involved in similar cases and huge currency was planted by the IO in
 this case. I am failed to subscribe this explanation, the minute scrutiny

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 73 of 102
 of PW­3 HC Subhodh, Decory Customer, PW­5 HC Rishi Pal, PW­7
 HC Surender Kumar, PW­12 HC Satyapal, PW­13 Ct. Sanjay, PW­4 Ct.
 Manoj, PW­16 Inspector Ashok Sharma, PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar
 and PW­19 SI Manjeet Tomar shows that their testimony is
 corroborated on each material particulars and despite detailed cross
 examination remained unimpeached. Minor contradictions as pointed by
 defence bound to happen which does not affect the prosecution case. In
 Mukesh Singh's judgment (supra) Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that
 testimony of police personnel will be treated in the same manner as
 testimony of other witnesses. So far as argument or non joining of
 public witness is concerned from the facts and circumstances of the
 case, this court is of the view that raiding team reached at the spot about
 6 pm and accused persons were apprehended about 7­7:15 pm. Though
 IO requested 6­7 persons to join the raiding team but none agreed and
 raiding team proceeded to execute the raid without wasting time. I find
 force in the explanation of the State on this aspect as in today's time no
 public person easily come forward to assist the police in execution of
 law. In view of these reasons, I hold that recovery of fake currency as
 mentioned in the seizure memo prepared on 01.07.2009 near Rajouri
 Garden, Metro Station were recovered from the possession of accused
 Shan Mohd., Mohd. Naim and Mohd. Shahrukh. Recovery at the instance of accused Shan Mohd. From village

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 74 of 102
 Tajpur, District Bulandshahar UP on 05.07.2009 70. Second incident pertains to recovery of suit case containing counterfeit
 currency worth Rs. 10,11,500/­ in denomination of Rs. 500/­ from the
 House of PW­6 Zaitoon, Village, near Buland Shahar, U.P. on
 05.07.2009 at the instance of accused Shan Mohd. pursuant to
 supplementary disclosure statement dated 04.07.2009. 71. As per prosecution case, pursuant to the supplementary disclosure
 statement of accused Shan Mohd. Ex. PW­18/N, a raiding team
 comprising SI Manjeet Tomar, Inspector Ram Avtar, Inspector Ashok
 Sharma, Lady Constable Lata, ASI Mahender Singh, ASI Surender
 (driver), HC Satyapal, Ct. Manoj constituted, who proceeded to Village
 Tajpur, District Bulandshahar on 04.07.2009 and also sought assistance
 from local police i.e. PW­1 SI Gyaneshwar Baddha PS Kotwali Dehat,
 Bulandshahar. Thereafter, raiding team reached at Village Tajpur and
 accused Shan Mohd. Pointed out towards house of his khala i.e. PW­6
 Smt. Zaitoon but the premises was found locked and sources were
 deployed with the help of local police to give any clue regarding PW­6
 Smt. Zaitoon. Thereafter, team came back to Delhi. Again on
 05.07.2009, the said raiding team alongwith lady Ct. Rajulia went to
 Village Tajpur and found PW­6 in her house. On the asking of accused
 Shan Mohd. PW­6 Smt. Zaitoon after hesitation handed over the
 suitcase containing clothes to the IO and on checking the same it was

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 75 of 102
 containing 6­7 clothes i.e. pant, t­shirt, towel etc. from the said suitcase
 fake currency worth Rs. 10,11,500/­ in the denomination of Rs. 500/­
 recovered. 72. To prove the factum of the said recovery out of all the raiding members,
 prosecution examined PW1 SI Gyaneshwar Buddha, PW­6 Smt.
 Zaitoon, PW­16 Inspector Ashok Sharma, PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar
 and PW­19 SI Manjeet Tomar, IO. 73. Firstly, I will deal with the police witnesses qua the factum of recovery
 as it is vehemently argued on behalf of accused Shan Mohd. that no
 such raid was conducted on 04.07.2009 and 05.07.2009 in Village
 Tajpur and no recovery as alleged at the instance of accused was
 effected. It is vehemently argued that PW­6 Smt. Zaitoon declared
 hostile and did not support the prosecution case hence importance link
 qua recovery of fake currency at the instance of accused Shan Mohd. is
 missing. Perusal of testimony of all the police witnesses shows that their
 testimony corroborated on material particulars each other and there is no
 major contradiction in their testimony. 74. So far as arguments of defence that PW­1 Gyaneshwar Buddha is a
 planted witness as no DD Entry to the effect that he joined the raiding

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 76 of 102
 team proved on record. Perusal of testimony of PW­1 Gyaneshwar
 Buddha shows that he joined the raiding team of 05.07.2009 led by SI
 Manjeet Tomar with other staff from police Post Bhore District
 Bulandshahar with accused Shan Mohd. and reached at Village Tajpur
 and at the instance of accused Shan Mohd. PW­6 Smt. Zaitoon handed
 over suitcase containing fake currency worth Rs. 10,11,500/­ which was
 seized by IO Ex. PW­1/A. This witness was cross examined at length on
 behalf of accused persons and during cross examination PW­1 had
 admitted that no public person joined the investigation despite request
 by the IO. This witness has also categorically deposed that PW­6 Smt.
 Zaitoon had also put her thumb impression on the seizure memo. This
 witness has also stated that he do not remember the time when they left
 the spot. But he voluntarily deposed that they left the spot before
 evening to PS Dehat, Bulandshahar. As mentioned above, the testimony
 of police witnesses shall be treated as part, if corroborated in material
 particulars. Simply because PW­1 is a police witness his testimony
 won't be relied. PW­1 is a police officer. He cannot join the raiding
 team and left the police post/PS without the order of the seniors.
 Therefore, I hold that testimony of PW­1 is trustworthy, reliable and the
 contention of defence that he is a planted witness is not tenable. 75. Now I will appreciate the testimony of PW­6, who is examined as public
 witness to prove the factum of recovery of fake currency. As mentioned

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 77 of 102
 above, it is contended that PW­6 is a hostile witness hence, her
 testimony is of no use to the prosecution. In catina of cases superior
 courts has held that simply because a witness is hostile the entire
 testimony does not washed away. It is correct that in her examination in
 chief, PW­6 shows ignorance about knowing anything about the present
 case. But this witness was cross­examined at length by Ld. State
 Counsel. In her cross examination, by the State PW­6 has denied of any
 meeting with the police or any visit of place in connection with this case
 but when the question was put to this witness whether she has signed or
 put thumb impression on any document, she answered in affirmative
 stating that "police has obtained her thumb impression on blank paper".
 She also stated that her thumb impression were obtained by lady police
 at her residence again at 'Chand Pur'. This piece of evidence of PW­6
 shows that she has signed the seizure memo as deposed by other
 prosecution witnesses at her residence. The later part of the testimony of
 this witness shows that she could not speaking truth in the court due to
 some coresion duress as she has stated "mere chote chote bacche hain,
 main ek widhwa aurat hoon, mujhe kuch ni pata, mere se angoode kagaz
 per liye gaye thee". Therefore, this piece of testimony of PW6
 corroborate the version of police that raid was conducted and she
 handed over the suitcase containing fake currency to the IO but due to
 reason best known to her she could not deposed the truth in the witness
 box. But I am of the considered view that the piece of evidence as

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 78 of 102
 mentioned herein shows that recovery was effected from her house. 76. The other contention of defence that no procedure for search and seized
 is contained u/s. 100 , 165 and 166 Cr.PC followed. On this, I am in
 agreement with the submissions made by State that as per section 166 Cr.PC in case of urgency requirement of two respectable persons as a
 witness to search and seizure can be waived off. More so, in the facts
 and circumstances of the case as no premises number was given by the
 accused in his disclosure statement therefore, the said recovery shall be
 treated as recovery in the instance of accused Shan Mohd. Because it
 was only and only accused Shan Mohd. Who was aware about the house
 and about house of PW­6 where the suitcase containing fake currency
 was kept. Hence, this contention of defence is also not tenable. 77. The argument of defence that no public person joined the proceedings is
 also not tenable as PW­6 Smt. Zaitoon is a public witness. I am also in
 agreement of the submissions made on behalf of State that such a huge
 currency cannot be planted. 78. The arguments of defence that in the present case complainant and IO is
 the same person and the objection on admissibility of report of Nasik
 Note Press Ex. PW­17/A has already been dealt with hereinabove. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 79 of 102
 Hence, in view of these reasons, this court is of the considered view that
 prosecution has proved the factum of recovery from accused Shan
 Mohd. from village Tajpur. Recovery at the instance of accused Mohd. Naim at Aggarwal
 Sweets, Jahangir Puri, Delhi on 06.07.2009 79. Third incident pertains to raid conducted pursuant to supplementary
 disclosure statement of accused Mohd. Naim at Aggarwal Sweets,
 Jahangir Puri, Delhi on 06.07.2009 and recovered fake currency i.e. four
 (4) notes of Rs. 500/­ from accused Vipin Gupta and Two (2) notes of
 Rs. 500/­ from accused Ombir Singh and Rs. 25,000/­ original Indian
 Currency from Pithoo Bag and on the same night further recovery of
 electronic equipment i.e. computer, printer, scanner etc. from the rented
 house of accused Vipin Gupta pursuant to his disclosure statement from
 his rented house, premises no. 141 at Sector­22, Pocket­15, Rohini,
 Delhi. 80. On 06.07.2009 pursuant to the supplementary disclosure statement Ex. PW­18/N of accused Mohd. Naim, a raid was conducted by a team
 comprising of PW19 SI Manjeet Tomar, IO, PW18 Inspector Ram
 Avtar, PW­12 HC Satyapal, PW13 Ct. Sanjay, PW14 Ct. Manoj and
 other officials at the instance of accused Mohd. Naim near Aggarwal

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 80 of 102
 Sweet Shop, Jahangir Puri, Delhi and during the raid accused Ombir
 Singh and Vipin Gupta were arrested and recovery of counterfeit
 currency/Indian genuine currency were recovery from their possession.
 Contrary to it both the accused persons denied of having conducted such
 raid on 06.07.2009 and have contended that they have been picked up
 from their houses and falsely arrested in the present case by planting the
 fake / genuine currency. Both the accused persons claimed their
 innocence on the basis of arguments mentioned hereinabove. It is
 vehemently argued that entire investigation is tainted and lop sided from
 the very inception. Besides above arguments, both the accused persons
 preferred to file written arguments and case law in support of their
 contentions. 81. Firstly, I will deal with the arguments of defence regarding not
 mentioning the name of accused Vipin Gupta and Ombir in first
 disclosure statement dt. 09.07.2009 of accused Mohd. Naim. I have
 carefully read over the disclosure statement dated 09.07.2000 wherein
 accused Mohd. Naim had disclosed the name of Vipin Gupta, Ombir
 Singh and one Bhola as the person to whom he used to supply fake
 currency and have also disclosed that he can get those persons arrested.
 Therefore, the contention of defence that in the first disclosure statement
 their names were not mentioned is against the record. I have carefully
 read over the supplementary disclosure statement dt. 06.07.2009 of

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 81 of 102
 accused Mohd. Naim. In the supplementary disclosure statement
 accused had disclosed two more facts i.e. (i) 15/20 days prior to the
 incident he handed over 10 fake currency notes of Rs. 500/­
 denomination as sample to Vipin Gupta, (ii) Mobile no. 9278064305 of
 accused Vipin Gupta. 82. Further no plausible explanation has come on record as to why IO did
 not investigate and made efforts to arrest accused Vipin Gupta and
 Ombir Singh despite their names were disclosed by accused Mohd.
 Naim in his disclosure statement dt. 02.07.2009 and have also
 undertaken to get them arrested. To the utter surprise of the court even
 PW19 SI Manjeet Tomar, IO in his cross examination dt. 09.05.2012
 has stated that "it is correct that in the aforesaid disclosure statement (dt.
 02.07.2009), Mohd. Naim did not disclose anything about accused Vipin
 Gupta. He disclosed that he can get arrested the person from Delhi to
 whom he was dealing". This statement of IO is incorrect and against the
 record as name of both the accused persons are mentioned in the
 statement dt. 02.07.2009. 83. Further there is no evidence on record regarding desealing of
 mobilephone having no. 9654529662 of accused Mohd. Naim
 when he was asked to make a call to accused Vipin Gupta.
 Admittedly this mobile phone was seized by IO vide personal

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 82 of 102
 search memo Ex. PW4/H on 01.07.2009 and again handed over to
 accused Mohd. Naim on 06.07.2009 for making call to accused
 Vipin Gupta on his mobile no. 9278064305. PW19 SI Manjeet
 Tomar, IO in his examination in chief has deposed that "the mobile
 phone which was taken into possession from the accused at the
 time of his arrest was given to him and was asked to make a call to
 co­accused Vipin Gupta". Except this statement there is nothing in
 the testimony of IO as to whether the pulanda of mobile was desealed
 or was remained unsealed till 06.07.2009. This create serious doubt
 about the investigation conducted by the IO who is otherwise
 complainant as well. 84. In the above context there is relevancy in the argument of defence
 that call details, record of mobile phone of accused Mohd. Naim
 not taken from concerned authority and proved on record, reasons
 best known to the IO. In these circumstances, CDR and CAF of
 mobile of accused Mohd. Naim from which call was made to accused
 Vipin Gupta was important piece of evidence to be brought on record
 not only from the view point that said mobile belongs to accused Mohd.
 Naim but to ascertain the fact as to how many phone calls were made or
 received from the said mobile phone during intervening period i.e.
 01.07,.2009 to 06.07.2009 to rule out the doubt about bias investigation
 as pleaded. Therefore, this court is of the view that non production of

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 83 of 102
 CDR and CAF of mobile phone of accused Mohd. Naim also creates
 serious doubt about the fair investigation. 85. Further as per the case of prosecution, mobile no. 9278064305
 allegedly recovered from accused Vipin Gupta and was being used
 by him but as per testimony of PW­4 M.N. Vijyan, Nodal Officer,
 Tata Tele Services. The said mobile was registered in the name of
 one Baldev Singh. But said Baldev Singh not examined as a witness by
 the prosecution to fill the link that said mobile number belongs to
 accused Vipin Gupta or used by him. No explanation has come on
 record for non examination of said Baldev Singh. Therefore, this court
 hold that by non examining the registered customer of mobile no.
 9278064305 being the important link to prove that the said number was
 being used by Vipin Gupta is missing. 86. Further at the strength of law laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court
 in case title "Anwar PB Vs. P.K. Bhaskar and others" (2014) SCC
 473, it is contended that CDR of mobile no. 9278064305 proved
 without any certificate u/s. 65B(4) Evidence Act. Hence, said
 electronic record cannot be read into evidence being the secondary
 evidence. Admittedly, CDR of mobile no. 9278064305 allegedly
 used by accused Vipin Gupta proved by PW­4 M.N. Vijiyan and
 PW­22 Rajiv Ranjan (again examined on arrest of accused Mohd. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 84 of 102
 Muslim) as Ex. PW4/A and the said record is computer generated
 copies for which certificate u/s. 65B(4) Evidence Act is required.
 But no such certificate either placed on record or proved by the
 prosecution. Further Hon'ble Supreme Court in case title " Arjun
 Panditrao Khotkar Vs. Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal", 2020SCC online SC 571 has held that "A certificate u/s. 65B (4) Evidence
 Act is mandatory, and a condition precedent to the admissibility of
 evidence by way of electronic record". In the present case CDR Ex.
 PW4/A being the electronic record is not supported by certificate
 u/s. 65 B(4) Evidence Act . Hence, in view of the law laid down in the Hon'ble Supreme Court in both the judgments (Supra), the
 CDR as proved by PW4 cannot be read in evidence. 87. Now I will deal with the arguments regarding non joining of public
 witness in the raid. As per testimony of PWs police team reached at
 the spot i.e. near Aggarwal Sweet Shop about 6­6:30 pm. It has
 also come in evidence of PWs that before proceeding their office,
 accused Mohd. Naim was asked to make a second call to accused
 Vipin Gupta and accused Vipin Gupta assured him to reach at the
 spot about 7 pm to take delivery. But accused Vipin Gupta and
 Ombir admittedly reached at the spot on the motorcycle about
 10:30 pm. Therefore, police team as per their own case remained at
 the spot about 4 hour and was waiting of the arrival of the accused

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 85 of 102
 Vipin Gupta. More so, IO came to know on the basis of call made
 by Mohd. Naim to accused Vipin Gupta that he will reach at about
 7pm. But to the utter surprise of this court, despite having ample
 time no sincere efforts were made by the IO for joining the raiding
 team by an independent public witness. Prosecution witness have
 given vague answer that no public persons has joined the raiding
 team despite request of IO. In the raid conducted on 01.07.2009
 near Rajouri Garden Metro station, this court has accepted the
 contention of State regarding non joining of public witness because
 there was paucity of time as raiding team reached at the spot about
 6 pm and accused persons were arrested at 7 pm. But in the present
 raid, IO was having specific information about coming of accused
 Vipin Gupta based on the phone call by accused Mohd. Naim,
 despite this he did not bother to act diligently and as per law. Even
 IO admitted in cross examination that area from where accused
 persons were arrested is thickly populated but no efforts were made
 to join any public person in the raid. This court is also in agreement
 of the contention raised by defence that if no public person agreed
 to join the raiding team, IO could have made the videography of
 the raid, which has not been done. This court is also of the view
 that IO was having opportunity to record the conversation between
 accused Mohd. Naim and Vipin Gupta on mobile phone for the
 further corroboration but he did not bother to record the said

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 86 of 102
 conversation. This court is also of the view that IO could have
 called any person from the Aggarwal Sweet Shop for joining the
 raid as he has admitted that at the time of raid, said shop was opened. In
 view of these reasons, this court is of the view that non joining of any
 public witness despite having ample time and opportunity by the IO in
 the raid caste serious doubt about the proceedings conducted at the spot. 88. Likewise, no independent person has joined the proceedings qua
 recovery of monitor, CPU, Keyboard, mouse, printer and scanner at
 the instance of accused Vipin Gupta from his rented room bearing
 premises no. 141, Pocket 15, Sector­22, Rohini, Delhi. As per
 testimony of witness at about 12 midnight raiding team alongwith
 accused Vipin Gupta proceeded to Rohini and made the recovery.
 Prosecution examined PW8 Dharamvir Singh as owner of said
 premises, who deposed that accused Naveen (identify accused
 Naim as Naveen by face in the court) lived as co­tenant with one
 Akanksha at the third floor of his house. Therefore, as per testimony of
 PW8 accused was residing at third floor but IO did not make any effort
 to call any resident of the other floor of the said premises or any
 neighbour to join the recovery proceedings. In my considered view IO
 did not make sincere efforts to join the independent witnesses to join
 proceedings which create serious doubt in recovery of electronic items
 mentioned above only and only at the instance of Mohd. Naim. Though

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 87 of 102
 IO in his testimony has categorically admitted that this recovery is not
 related to the present case or that of the recovery of Indian Fake
 Currency Notes. Even then IO was under legal obligation to conduct the
 proceedings by following the due process law. 89. Now I will appreciate liability of evidence of PW11 Gulab Singh
 on whose motorcycle accused Ombir Singh and Vipin Gupta stated
 to have reached at the spot and the said motorcycle was also seized.
 In his testimony recorded on 31.03.2010 PW stated his age 20
 years and have also stated that his father purchased the motorcycle
 cycle bearing no. DL­4SA­7415 about 7­8 years back. The
 registration record of said motorcycle is proved by PW2 Chander
 Bhan as Ex. PW2/A. The said motorcycle was registered on
 23.02.2006. It is contended on behalf of accused persons that in the
 year 2006 PW Gulab was about 12­13 years old and vehicle as per
 rules cannot be registered in his name being the minor. PW11
 during cross examination has stated that "I have not brought the RC
 or any other paper of the vehicle since they have been lost. My
 father had bought the vehicle about 7­8 years back. The vehicle is
 registered in my name. Police had not taken copy of RC from me. I
 am aged about 20­21 years old". This witness has also stated in his
 cross­examination that "today I have not brought any identification
 proof". Admittedly no RC is seized by IO during investigation. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 88 of 102
 Even there is no seizure memo of computer generated particulars
 of the vehicle on record. Even no missing report regarding missing
 of RC and other papers produced in the court either by PW Gulab
 or by the IO. Pertinently in the statement of PW1 u/s. 161 Cr.PC,
 IO has also mentioned the age of PW Gulab as 20 years old. Hence,
 as rightly contended vehicle could not have been registered in the
 name of PW Gulab in February 2006. Therefore, from the facts and
 evidence come on record it cannot be said whether PW11 Gulab
 who appeared in the witness box was the same Gulab in whose
 name vehicle was registered and proved by document Ex. PW2/A.
 It also caste the serious doubt about the identify of PW11 Gulab. 90. Further it is also argued by both the accused persons that there are
 material contradiction and improvement in the testimony of PW11
 Gulab. In his statement u/s. 161 Cr.PC, PW Gulab has deposed that
 he has given his motorcycle to Vipin Gupta whereas in the court he
 improved his statement stating that he gave his vehicle to Ombir
 and Vipin Gupta. Not only this during cross examination he has
 also stated that "I do not know Vipin Gupta. I know one Anand
 who is my neighbour. I had given my vehicle to all the three i.e.
 Anand, Vipin Gupta and Ombir but I handed over the custody of
 vehicle to Anand". Admittedly said Anand not examined as a
 witness by the prosecution, whose name introduced for the first

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 89 of 102
 time in the witness box by the witness. Therefore, from the testimony
 of PW11 Gulab it is clear that he does not know accused Vipin Gupta to
 whom he had given vehicle as per statement u/s. 161 Cr.PC. Further, in
 the said statement, Ex. PW11/DA the name of accused Ombir is not
 mentioned. Therefore, this court is of the view that the testimony of PW
 Gulab suffers from material contradictions and unworthy of credit. 91. Further, defence has also contended that PW12 HC Satyapal has
 stated that both the accused persons namely Vipin Gupta and Ombir
 Singh were wearing helmets. Seizure memo of motorcycle Ex. PW18/X
 on perusal shows that no helmet was seized by the IO from the
 possession of accused persons. No explanation has come on record in
 the testimony of IO about the helmets. Seizure memo Ex. PW18/X even
 does not find mentioned about the seizing of key of motorcycle as
 contended by defence. In view of these reasons serious doubt has been
 created about the seizing of motorcycle from the spot. Factum of recovery of fake currency as well as Indian Genuine
 Currency 92. Now I will decide the factum of fake as well as Indian Genuine
 Currency consequent upon search of accused Ombir Singh and
 Vipin Gupta during raid near Aggarwal Sweets Shop, Jahangir

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 90 of 102
 Puri, Delhi. As per the case of prosecution Rs. 25,000/­ Indian
 Genuine Currency was recovered from the pithoo bag handed over
 to accused Mohd. Naim by accused Ombir Singh and in turn accused
 Mohd. Naim handed over dummy packet containing fake currency to
 accused Vipin Gupta. It is also the case of prosecution that the fake
 currency note of Rs. 500/­ were recovered from the purse of accused
 Vipin Gupta while two fake currency note of Rs. 500/­ recovered from
 the purse of accused Ombir Singh. 93. As per the case of prosecution the above case property were recovered
 in the presence of members of raiding team comprising PW12 HC
 Satyapal, PW13 Ct. Sanjay, PW14 Ct. Manoj, PW18 Inspector Ram
 Avtar and PW19 SI Manjeet Tomar, IO. But prosecution examined only
 PW12, 18 and 19 to prove the factum of recovery in this raid. 94. Prosecution at the strength of these three witnesses has argued that
 it has proved the factum of raid as well as recovery beyond reasonable
 doubt and minor contradictions are bound to happen. It is also
 contended that no prejudice has been caused to the accused persons by
 the contradictions as pointed out. It is also contended that contradictions
 as pointed out are not major which demolish the prosecution case. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 91 of 102 95. On behalf of accused persons it is vehemently argued that no raid
 as alleged have been conducted and further argued that since no
 raid was conducted hence, there was no question of recovery from
 the search of accused persons. It is also vehemently argued that the
 genuine as well as fake currency is planted upon both the accused
 persons. It is also argued that accused persons were picked up from
 their houses and falsely arrested in this case. It is also argued that
 all the documents were prepared in the office of Crime Branch and
 signature of both accused persons were obtained thereon. It is also
 argued that there are material contradiction in the testimony of
 PW12 HC Satyapal and PW18 Inspector Ram Avtar on material
 particulars which goes to the route of alleged factum of recovery.
 The other argument of accused person are mentioned in details
 hereinabove. 96. As per seizure memo Ex. PW18/A and Ex. PW18/B four notes of
 Rs. 500/­ and two notes of Rs. 500/­ recovered from the purse of
 accused Vipin Gupta and Ombir Singh respectively which were
 the fake currency notes. I have carefully perused the testimony of
 PWs. But there are material contradiction on the aspect whether
 fake notes were recovered from the purse or from the pocket. PW12 HC
 Satyapal has deposed that "apart from fake currency notes, there were
 few visiting cards and some other papers available in the purse". But

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 92 of 102
 PW12 shows his ignorance whether there were other currency notes in
 the purse of accused persons or not. PW12 is the material witness being
 the shadow witness of the raid. 97. PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar who is the attesting witness to all the
 documents prepared by IO has deposed that "on conducting personal
 search of both the accused persons by IO, 4 notes and 2 notes of
 fake currency recovered from accused Vipin gupta and Ombir Singh
 respectively". This witness has not stated that the fake currency notes
 were recovered from the purse of the accused persons. Even during
 cross examination this witness has stated that "I do not remember from
 which pocket of accused fake currency was recovered". He further
 qualify this statement by volunteered that "the personal search of
 accused was taken by IO". This witness further stated that "there was
 recovery of some change from the pocket but I do not remember the
 amount". This witness is also material witness as entire proceedings
 were conducted in his presence and is a attesting witness as well.
 Therefore, I am of the view that PW­18 Inspector Ram Avtar have not
 stated that the currency notes were recovered from the purse of accused
 persons. Contrary to version of both these witnesses as per seizure
 memo Ex. PW18/S, one black colour purse containing Rs. 630/­ and 3
 ATM Cards, other articles were seized from accused Ombir and as
 per seizure memo Ex. PW18/T one purse containing Rs. 1260/­, 3

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 93 of 102
 ATM Card, PAN card, Election Card were seized from accused
 Vipin Gupta besides other articles as mentioned in the memo.
 Hence, the testimony of PW12 and PW18 not corroborated to each
 other on the aspect of recovery of fake currency note and which is
 the material contradiction. PW12 though have deposed about recovery
 of fake notes from the purse but has shows his ignorance about other
 currency notes in the purse of accused persons. Contrary to it PW18
 deposed that fake notes were recovery from the pocket. He has not
 deposed of having recovered the fake notes from the purse of accused
 persons. Even he could not remember as to from which pocket fake
 notes were recovered. Whereas, contrary to the testimony of these two
 witnesses PW19 SI Manjeet Tomar, IO have deposed that fake notes
 were recovered from the purse and has also deposed that he conducted
 personal search of accused persons in the presence of other members of
 the raiding team. Contrary to it PW12 and PW18 have deposed that they
 do not remember whether IO offered his personal search before
 conducting the search of accused persons. In view of these reasons,
 this court is of the view that a serious doubt has created whether the
 fake currency notes were recovered from the purse seized from the
 accused persons or from the pocket. The serious doubt has also
 caused about recovery of fake notes from the purse in which the
 genuine currency (Rs. 630/­ in the purse of accused Ombir and Rs.
 1260/­ in the purse of accused Vipin Gupta) were also there. No

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 94 of 102
 evidence has come on record whether the fake notes were lying
 mixed with the genuine currency or were kept separately. 98. Now comes to recovery of Rs. 25,000/­, Indian Currency from the
 pittho bag. The present raid was conducted near Aggarwal Sweet
 Shop pursuant to supplementary disclosure statement of Accused
 Mohd. Naim Ex. PW19/N in which only the name of accused Vipin
 Gupta is mentioned. It does not find mentioned the name of accused
 Ombir Singh. It has also come in evidence that on reaching at the
 Aggarwal Sweet Shop accused Mohd. Naim made another call to
 accused Vipin wherein accused Vipin Gupta asked him about arranging
 Rs. 25000/­ but no efforts were made by the IO to record the said
 conversation despite ample opportunity. The said pittho bag stated to
 handed over by accused Ombir Singh to accused Mohd. Naim but his
 name is not mentioned in Ex. PW18/N and in turn accused Mohd. Naim
 handed over the dummy packet of fake currency to accused Vipin
 Gupta which is a major contradiction. In view of law laid down in Aghnoo Nagesia case (supra) the supplementary disclosure statement
 Ex. PW18/N is not admissible in evidence as no recovery of Indian
 Currency effected from accused Vipin Gupta whose name is mentioned
 therein. Therefore, in view of these reasons since Ex. PW18/N was
 recorded by IO while accused Mohd. Naim was in police custody,
 it cannot be read against him in view of mandate of section 24 ­25

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 95 of 102 Evidence Act . 99. In the other two incident of raid dt. 01.07.2009 & 05.07.2009 this
 court considered and decided the arguments of State in its favour
 that such a huge currency cannot be planted by IO but in the present
 incident even that argument is also of not much help as only 6 fake
 currency notes in total recovered from both the accused persons. In view
 of above reasons the possibility of planting of fake currency notes in this
 particular incident cannot be rules out. In view of the above reasons, this
 court has no hesitation to hold that prosecution has miserably failed to
 prove the factum of conducting raid as well as consequent recovery on
 06.07.2009 near Aggarwal Sweets Shop, Jahangir Puri, Delhi only and
 only from the possession of accused Ombir Singh and Vipin Gupta.
 Hence, accused Ombir Singh and Vipin Gupta are entitled for acquittal
 by giving benefit of doubt. Hence, order accordingly. 100. Now I will discuss the evidence qua Mohd. Muslim. The name of
 accused Mohd. Muslim find mentioned in disclosure statement of
 accused persons namely Shan Mohd., Mohd. Naim and Mohd.
 Shahrukh that he was actively involved in the trafficking of fake
 currency with them. During investigation accused Muslim could
 not be arrested, hence, coercive method were adopted to secure his
 arrest by the IO but of no avail. Vide order dt. 17.12.2009, accused

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 96 of 102
 Mohd. Muslim was declared Proclaimed Offender (PO).
 Thereafter, accused was arrested on 24.10.2011 and supplementary
 charge sheet was filed against him thereby opining by IO that so far
 no more evidence against accused Mohd. Muslim but he
 participated actively in commission of crime as disclosed by co­
 accused persons, hence, he was challan for having committed
 offence u/s. 120B IPC r/w. 489B/489C/34 IPC and section 174­A IPC . 101. It is argued by Ld. Counsel for accused Mohd. Muslim that no
 recovery of any kind either from personal search or at the instance
 of accused was affected. It is also argued that even no evidence of
 conspiracy have come on record. 102. Perusal of entire prosecution evidence shows that except the name
 of Mohd. Muslim mentioned in the disclosure statement there is no
 evidence of conspiracy against the accused on record. Even there is
 no scientific evidence like call details of mobile of accused Mohd.
 Muslim of the conversation with other co­accused persons come on
 record. 103. In view of above reasons this court has no hesitation to hold that

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 97 of 102
 prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charge of conspiracy
 of trafficking of counterfeit currency with other co­accused persons
 against accused Mohd. Muslim. Hence, accused Mohd Muslim is
 entitled for acquittal for want of legally admissible evidence. Hence,
 order accordingly. Since, accused Mohd. Muslim has been acquitted
 for the main charge, this court is also of the view that he is entitled for
 acquittal for the charge u/s. 174A IPC. Hence, accused Mohd. Muslim
 also acquittal for charge u/s. 174A IPC. 104. Hereinabove, I had held that prosecution has successfully proved
 the factum of recovery from accused Mohd. Naim, Shan Mohd, and
 Mohd. Shahrukh during raid conducted on 01.07.2009 near Rajouri
 Garden Metro Station and further recovery at the instance of accused
 Shan Mohd. from Village Tajpur, District Bulandshahar UP on
 05.07.2009. Now I will decide for what offence all the three accused
 persons liable to be held guilty. 105. Similarly Section 489B relates to using as genuine forged or
 counterfeited currency notes or bank notes. The object of Legislature in
 enacting this section is to stop the circulation of forged notes by
 punishing all persons who knowing or having reason to believe the
 same to be forged do any act which could lead to their circulation. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 98 of 102 106. Section 489C deals with possession of forged or counterfeit currency
 notes or bank notes. It makes possession of forged and counterfeited
 currency notes or bank notes punishable. Possession and knowledge that
 the currency notes were counterfeited notes are necessary ingredients to
 constitute offence under Sections 489C and 489D. As was observed by
 this Court in State of Kerala vs. Mathai Verghese and Ors. (AIR 1987
 SC 33) the expression 'currency notes' is large and wide enough in its
 amplitude to cover the currency notes of any country. Section 489C is
 not restricted to Indian currency note alone but it includes dollar also
 and it applies to American dollar bills.). 107. Further in Umashankar­vs­ State of Chhattisgarh AIR 2001 SC 3074
 Hon'ble Supreme Court states that mens rea is the main of the main
 criteria to defetermine the offence U/s 489­B to 489­C IPC " 8. A perusal of the provisions, extracted above, shows that
 mens rea of offences under Section 489­B and 489­C is,
 "knowing or having reason to believe the currency notes or
 bank­notes are forged or counterfeit". Without the
 aforementioned mens rea selling, buying or receiving from
 another person or otherwise trafficking in or using as genuine
 forged or counterfeit currency­notes or bank notes is not enough
 to constitute offence under Section 489­B of I.P.C . So also
 possessing or even intending to use any forged or counterfeit
 currency­notes or bank­notes is not sufficient to make out a case

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 99 of 102
 under Section 489­C in the absence of the mens rea, noted
 above. No material is brought on record by the prosecution to
 show that the appellant had the requisite mens rea. The High
 Court, however, completely missed this aspect. The learned
 trial Judge on the basis of the evidence of PW 2, PW 4 and
 PW 7 that they were able to make out that currency note alleged
 to have been given to PW 4, was fake "presumed" such a mens
 rea. On the date of the incident the appellant was said to be 18
 years old student. On the facts of this case the presumption
 drawn by the trial Court is not warranted under Section 4 of the
 Evidence Act. Further it is also not shown that any specific
 question with regard to the currency­notes being fake or
 counterfeit was put to the appellant in his examination under Section 313 of Criminal Procedure Code. On these facts we have
 no option but to hold that the charges framed under Sections
 489­B and 489­C are not proved. We, therefore, set aside the
 conviction and sentence passed on the appellant under Sections
 489­B and 489­C of I.P.C . and acquit him of the said charges
 [See : M. Mammutti vs. State of Karnataka AIR 1979 SC 1705." 108. In the present case as per disclosure statement PW18/K of accused
 Mohd. Naim, the names of accused Vipin Gupta, Ombir and one
 Bhola were mentioned as intending buyer of the counterfeit currency.
 But in view of my above finding accused Vipin Gupta and Ombir have
 been acquitted for the entire charges against them. Perusal of entire
 prosecution evidence shows that there is no evidence on record to attract

S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 100 of 102 section 489B IPC i.e. selling of counterfeit currency recovered from the
 accused persons. 109. The arguments of State that testimony of PW3 HC Subodh is sufficient
 to prove the charge u/s. 489B IPC. Respectfully I am in
 disagreement with Ld. State Counsel on this point. PW3 HC Subodh
 Kumar cannot be treated as intended buyer for the simple reason that no
 evidence has come on record as to how the information that accused
 persons uses code word "Chamra" to sell the counterfeit currency comes
 to the raiding team. No evidence is lead to this effect. Moreover, I am
 in agreement contention raised on behalf of accused persons that no
 person can expect to hand over the article in the shape of currency note
 to a unknown persons at the spur of movement by uttering word
 "Chamra" without knowing his identify and verifying credence etc. 110. Therefore, in view of my findings hereinabove, in my considered
 view prosecution has successfully able to prove the charge against
 accused Mohd. Naim, Shan Mohd. and Mohd. Shahrukh only for
 offence u/s. 489C IPC. No legal evidence to prove the charge of
 criminal conspiracy has come on record. Accordingly, accused
 Mohd. Naim, Shan Mohd. and Mohd. Shahrukh are convicted for
 offence u/s. 489C IPC and are acquitted for the remaining charges. S.C. No. 57713/2016 State Vs. Shan Mohd. @ Shanu @ Chintu and others page 101 of 102
 Conclusion : Their bail bond be cancelled. Sureties are discharged. In
 compliance of Section 437A Cr.PC all these three accused persons
 are directed to furnish PB/SB in the sum of Rs. 20,000/­ with one
 surety of like amount, which shall remain in force for a period of
 six months, in case State prefer appeal against this judgment. (ii) Accused Mohd. Naim, Shan Mohd. and Mohd. Shahrukh are
 convicted for offence u/s. 489C IPC and are acquitted for the
 remaining charges. Let they be heard on the point of sentence
 separately.