Sequel to order dated 30.10.2020, whereby bail petitioner was

 ordered to be enlarged on interim bail in the event of his arrest in case FIR

 No.26/2020, dated 20.9.2020, under sections 376 , 384 , 506 and 201 of IPC,

 registered at Women Police Station, Dharamshala, District Kangra, H.P., Mr.

 Arvind Sharma, learned Additional Advocate General has placed on record

 status report prepared on the basis of the investigation carried out by the

 Investigating Agency. Record perused and returned. 2. Close scrutiny of the status report/record reveals that

 on 20.09.2020, victim/prosecutrix aged 31 years, (name withheld

 to protect her identity), lodged a complaint at Women Police 1 Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Station, Dharamshala, District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh,

 alleging therein that since the year, 2013, her relation with her

 husband was not cordial and in the year, 2014 she alongwith her

 . daughter and father started living separately. She stated that in

 June, 2014, she went to Delhi in the search of job and stayed at the

 house of her sister at Karampura, Delhi and came into the contact

 of present bail petitioner. She alleged that bail petitioner, who had

 introduced himself to be unmarried developed physical relation

 with her and clicked her objectionable photographs. She alleged

 that factum with regard to clicking of photographs and video clips

 came to her knowledge from her relative namely Ravi. She alleged

 that bail petitioner after having clicked her objectionable

 photographs and videos kept on blackmailing her and in this

 manner, extorted huge amount from her. She alleged that bail

 petitioner purchased one car bearing registration No.HR-95-1144 in

 the name of his brother, but made her to pay its EMI. She alleged

 that when she asked bail petitioner to delete her photographs and

 videos, bail petitioner called her in a Hotel at Kangra and sexually

 assaulted her against her wishes. She alleged that again on 28th

 February, 2020, bail petitioner called her at Apple Regency, Shimla

 and raped her. She alleged that before 28.2.2020, bail petitioner ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2020 20:16:48 :::HCHP 3 had also called her at Hotel Firhill and Hotel Apple Rose at Shimla

 and sexually assaulted her against her wishes. She alleged that

 bail petitioner extorted sum of Rs.10 lac by using her ATM and she

 . was also compelled to sell her gold ornaments bearing 250 grams

 and as such, appropriate action in law may be taken against him. In the aforesaid background, FIR, as detailed hereinabove, came to

 be lodged against the bail petitioner. Initially on 20.9.2020, bail

 petitioner after having obtained interim bail order from the Court

 of learned Additional Sessions Judge-I, Kangra at Dharamshala,

 H.P., joined the investigation but subsequently such application of

 him was dismissed and he was compelled to approach this Court in

 the instant proceedings. 3. Mr. Arvind Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

 General while fairly admitting the factum with regard to joining of

 investigation by the bail petitioner pursuant to order dated

 30.10.2020, contends that though bail petitioner has joined the

 investigation and challan stands filed in the competent court of

 law, but keeping in view the gravity of the offence alleged to have

 been committed by him, prayer having been made on his behalf for

 grant of bail deserves outright rejection. While making this Court

 to peruse the status report, learned Additional Advocate General ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2020 20:16:48 :::HCHP 4 contends that there is overwhelming evidence available on record

 suggestive of the fact that bail petitioner taking undue advantage

 of innocence of the victim/prosecutrix not only sexually assaulted

 . her repeatedly against her wishes, rather also extorted huge

 amount of money and as such, it would not be in the interest of

 justice to enlarge him on bail at this stage because in the event of

 his being enlarged on bail, he may not only flee from justice, but

 may also tamper with the prosecution witnesses. 4. Mr. Kulwant Singh Gill, learned counsel representing

 the complainant submits that evidence collected on record by the

 Investigating Agency clearly indicates that bail petitioner not only

 blackmailed and extorted money from the victim/ prosecutrix but

 also extended threats to the victim/prosecutrix that in case his

 demand are not met, he would upload her objectionable

 photographs and videos in the social media. Mr. Gill, further

 contends that since there is threat to the life of the

 victim/prosecutrix from the bail petitioner, it would not be in the

 interest of justice to enlarge him on bail and as such, his

 application for grant of bail may be rejected. 5. Having heard learned counsel representing the parties

 and perused the material available on record, this Court finds that ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2020 20:16:48 :::HCHP 5 the victim/prosecutrix has been in constant touch with the bail

 petitioner since June, 2014 and at no point of time bail petitioner

 compelled her to join his company. It is none of the allegation of the

 . victim/prosecutrix that in June,2014 bail petitioner sexually

 assaulted her against her wishes, rather it is admitted case of the

 victim/prosecutrix that bail petitioner after having introduced

 himself as unmarried developed physical relation with her. There is

 no material worth credence available on record that immediately

 after the alleged incident in June, 2014, complaint, if any, ever

 came to be lodged at the behest of the victim/prosecutrix against

 the bail petitioner, rather statements of the victim/prosecutrix

 recorded under Sections 154 and 164 Cr.P.C., clearly reveal that

 even after June, 2014 victim/prosecutrix had been meeting bail

 petitioner and during this period they had developed physical

 relation. Though, victim/prosecutrix has claimed that she was

 being blackmailed, but it is not understood that once relations of

 victim/ prosecutrix and bail petitioner had worsen, what prevented

 her to lodge complaint with the police at the very threshold and

 why thereafter she kept on meeting bail petitioner. Very own

 admission of the victim/prosecutrix that on 28.9.2020, she on the

 askance of the bail petitioner had come to Apple Regency Hotel, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2020 20:16:48 :::HCHP 6 Shimla and thereafter at Firhil Hotel Shimla, compels this Court to

 infer that the victim/prosecutrix of her own volition and without

 there being any external pressure had been joining the company of

 . the bail petitioner. Though, there is allegation that bail petitioner

 for the purchase of car made victim/prosecutrix to pay EMI, but

 investigation reveals that payment, if any, for purchase of vehicle

 in question was not made directly by the victim/prosecutrix, rather

 same was made though person namely Vinay Mishra, whose

 account details are yet to be collected on record. Investigation

 reveals that margin money for the payment of car in question was

 paid by the father of the bail petitioner, whereas remaining amount

 was got financed through Magna Finance Corporation. There is no

 material available on record suggestive of the fact that EMI from

 the account of the victim/prosecutrix was paid to Magma Finance

 Corporation. 6. Leaving everything aside, this Court having taken note

 of the conduct of the victim/prosecutrix, which is quite apparent

 from her statements recorded under sections 154 and 164 Cr.P.C, is

 unable to accept that bail petitioner took undue advantage of the

 innocence of the victim/ prosecutrix and it cannot be concluded

 that the victim/prosecutrix, who is 31 years old, was incapable of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2020 20:16:48 :::HCHP 7 understanding the consequences of her being in the company of

 the bail petitioner, with whom she had acquaintance since the

 . year, 2014. 7. Though, aforesaid aspects of the matter are to be

 considered and decided by the learned trial Court on the basis of

 totality of evidence collected on record by the investigating agency,

 but having noticed aforesaid glaring aspect of the matter, this

 Court sees no reason for the custodial interrogation of the bail

 petitioner, who has otherwise joined the investigation and nothing

 remains to be recovered from him. 8. It has been repeatedly held by Hon'ble Apex Court as

 well as this Court in catena of cases that one is deemed to be

 innocent till the time his /her guilt is not proved, in accordance

 with law. In the case at hand, the guilt, if any, of the bail

 petitioner is yet to be proved, in accordance with law. Apprehension

 expressed by learned Additional Advocate General that in the event

 of bail petitioner being enlarged on bail, he may flee from justice,

 can be best met by putting the bail petitioner to stringent

 conditions, as has been fairly admitted by learned counsel

 representing the petitioner. 9. Recently, the Hon'ble Apex Court in Criminal Appeal

 No. 227/2018, Dataram Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh &

 Anr. , decided on 6.2.2018, has categorically held that a

 . fundamental postulate of criminal jurisprudence is the

 presumption of innocence, meaning thereby that a person is

 believed to be innocent until found guilty. Hon'ble Apex Court

 further held that while considering prayer for grant of bail, it is

 important to ascertain whether the accused was participating in

 the investigations to the satisfaction of the investigating officer and

 was not absconding or not appearing when required by the

 investigating officer. Hon'ble Apex Court further held that if an

 accused is not hiding from the investigating officer or is hiding due

 to some genuine and expressed fear of being victimized, it would be

 a factor that a judge would need to consider in an appropriate case. The relevant paras of the aforesaid judgment are reproduced as

 under: However, there are instances in our criminal law
 where a reverse onus has been placed on an accused
 with regard to some specific offences but that is
 another matter and does not detract from the
 fundamental postulate in respect of other offences. Yet
 another important facet of our criminal jurisprudence
 is that the grant of bail is the general rule and putting
 a person in jail or in a prison or in a correction home
 (whichever expression one may wish to use) is an ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2020 20:16:48 :::HCHP 9 exception. Unfortunately, some of these basic
 principles appear to have been lost sight of with the
 result that more and more persons are being
 incarcerated and for longer periods. This does not do
 any good to our criminal jurisprudence or to our

 . society. 3. There is no doubt that the grant or denial of bail is

 entirely the discretion of the judge considering a case
 but even so, the exercise of judicial discretion has been
 circumscribed by a large number of decisions
 rendered by this Court and by every High Court in the

 country. Yet, occasionally there is a necessity to
 introspect whether denying bail to an accused person
 is the right thing to do on the facts and in the
 circumstances of a case. 4. While so introspecting, among the factors that need

 to be considered is whether the accused was arrested
 during investigations when that person perhaps has
 the best opportunity to tamper with the evidence or
 influence witnesses. If the investigating officer does
 not find it necessary to arrest an accused person

 during investigations, a strong case should be made
 out for placing that person in judicial custody after a

 charge sheet is filed. Similarly, it is important to
 ascertain whether the accused was participating in
 the investigations to the satisfaction of the
 investigating officer and was not absconding or not
 appearing when required by the investigating officer. Surely, if an accused is not hiding from the
 investigating officer or is hiding due to some genuine
 and expressed fear of being victimised, it would be a
 factor that a judge would need to consider in an
 appropriate case. It is also necessary for the judge to

 consider whether the accused is a first-time offender
 or has been accused of other offences and if so, the

 nature of such offences and his or her general
 conduct. The poverty or the deemed indigent status of
 an accused is also an extremely important factor and
 even Parliament has taken notice of it by

 incorporating an Explanation to Section 436 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. An equally soft
 approach to incarceration has been taken by
 Parliament by inserting Section 436A in the Code of
 Criminal Procedure , 1973. 5. To put it shortly, a humane attitude is required to
 be adopted by a judge, while dealing with an
 application for remanding a suspect or an accused
 person to police custody or judicial custody. There are
 several reasons for this including maintaining the
 dignity of an accused person, howsoever poor that ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2020 20:16:48 :::HCHP 10 person might be, the requirements of Article 21 of the
 Constitution and the fact that there is enormous
 overcrowding in prisons, leading to social and other
 problems as noticed by this Court in In Re-Inhuman
 Conditions in 1382 Prisons. . 10. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Sanjay Chandra versus

 Central Bureau of Investigation (2012)1 Supreme Court

 Cases 49; held as under:- 11. Needless to say object of the bail is to secure the

 . attendance of the accused in the trial and the proper test to be

 applied in the solution of the question whether bail should be

 granted or refused is whether it is probable that the party will

 appear to take his trial. Otherwise, bail is not to be withheld as a

 punishment. Otherwise also, normal rule is of bail and not jail. Court has to keep in mind nature of accusations, nature of evidence

 in support thereof, severity of the punishment which conviction will

 entail, character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar

 to the accused involved in that crime. 12. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Prasanta Kumar Sarkar

 v. Ashis Chatterjee and Another (2010) 14 SCC 496, has laid

 down the following principles to be kept in mind, while deciding

 petition for bail: . 13. Consequently, in view of the above, order dated

 30.10.2020 passed by this Court, is made absolute, subject to his

 furnishing personal bond in the sum of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rs. two lac)

 with two local sureties in the like amount, to the satisfaction of

 the learned trial Court, with following conditions: . The bail petition stands disposed of accordingly. Copy dasti.