This petition is filed by the 9th accused for anticipatory

bail. Facts briefly: He made a claim for more than Rs.11 lakhs from the

government, on the strength of such forged bills created and

supplied by first accused, purporting to be issued by Bharath

Petroleum Company or Indian Oil Company for the purchase of

bitumen. The investigation is proceeded against 9 accused for

offences under sections 465, 468, 471, 474, 20, 511 of 420, 420

read with 34 of IPC . 4. Petitioner's contentions: According to learned

counsel for the petitioner, petitioner is absolutely innocent of

the allegations made. The petitioner, as a government

contractor, had taken up a contract for road-work and he also

submitted bills before the Executive Engineer's office for

purchase of tar. The physical verification of the tar used for the

work was done by Engineers and those are entered in a

measurement book also. The bills produced by him were duly

countersigned by the officials concerned after verification and

upon satisfaction that the tar is used. The bills are accepted only

thereafter. [B.A.No.4274/08] 3 5. It is also submitted by learned counsel for petitioner

that other similarly placed accused in this crime were granted

anticipatory bail by different benches of this Court, as per

different orders issued on their applications for anticipatory bail

and hence, petitioner is also entitled to get the same relief from

this court. It is also pointed out by him that even the third

accused who allegedly obtained more than Rs.40 lakhs also was

granted anticipatory bail, but the petitioner has not even

obtained the money but only made a claim. Therefore, the High

Court cannot speak in two voices, he added. 6. In a case of this nature, the guilt or involvement of the

petitioner can be proved by documentary evidence and a

custodial interrogation of the petitioner may not be necessary

and if at all it is required, it can be done, even after granting

anticipatory bail, learned counsel for petitioner submitted.

According to him, if anticipatory bail is not granted, it will only

ensure custodial torture by the police by using third degree

method and, hence, the prayer for anticipatory bail may be

granted by this Court. 7. Respondent's contentions: Learned Director General

of Prosecution vehemently opposed this bail application. He

submitted that when the first application for anticipatory bail was [B.A.No.4274/08] 4 filed in this case by the third accused, he had vehemently

opposed the application and this fact was recorded also, in the

order. It was pointed out that huge loss of money, to the tune of

crores, was caused to the Government, in connection with the

construction and maintenance of road by the use of fake bills

and this was detected only when the first accused was arrested

and questioned. 8. Learned Director General of Prosecution also brought to

my notice that he had addressed the authorities concerned and

vigilantly taken steps to alert the Government on the oral

observations made by this Court during the pendency of this

petition, and accordingly, a special team of investigators headed

by senior police officials in the State is constituted, as per the

immediate orders issued by the Director General of Police. A

thorough investigation is being conducted into the crime and

petitioner is required for custodial interrogation for an effective

investigation in this case. Therefore, it may not be proper to

grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner in an offence of this

nature. 9. However, regarding the question, whether anticipatory

bail can be refused to petitioner alone, since other co-accused

were granted the same relief, learned Director General of [B.A.No.4274/08] 5 Prosecution submitted that he can only agree with the

submissions made by learned counsel for petitioner on this

score. Thus, resultantly, both sides would agree that

anticipatory bail can be granted to the petitioner, since three

different Benches of this court granted anticipatory bail to the

co-accused who are also contractors. 10. But, can I agree? Heard both sides in detail.

Perused the case diary consisting of as many as seven thick

volumes. This includes the case diary relating to the crime

registered as crime no. 999/2007 of the same station, in

connection with "unnatural death" of first accused and the "work

file" also. On going through the case diary and on consideration

of the arguments advanced by both sides, I find that I shall not

mechanically act on the unanimous submissions made by both

sides and grant anticipatory bail to petitioner on the ground that

other accused were granted the same relief. 11. According to me, power under section 438 of the

code is not intended to be invoked on the basis of any

compromise or consensus of opinion expressed by both sides. It

shall also not be exercised on any concession extended to an

accused by the opposite opposite party, either. The court shall

not grant the relief on the mere request for it. Of course, it may [B.A.No.4274/08] 6 appear on an apparent reading of sub-section (1) of section 438 of the code that anticipatory bail can be granted, if the twin

factors in the section exist viz., i) that a person has reason to

believe that he may be arrested ii) that such arrest may be on an

accusation having committed a non-bailable offence. But, such

an allegation can be made by any person who is an accused in a

case involving a non-bailable offence and hence, granting of

anticipatory bail does not depend upon satisfaction of the

above twin conditions alone. 12. Then, when can it be granted? It is only if the

court "thinks fit" that the court may grant the relief, as referred

to in the provision. How can this satisfaction be arrived at? For

reaching a conclusion whether it is a fit case or not to grant

anticipatory bail, the court shall keep in mind, various aspects.

These include, the nature of offence or the allegations made

against the accused. Another factor is the need for custodial

interrogation by the police. There are, of course, various other

factors also, which even the legislature could not or did not

elaborate in the provision but left to the discretion of the court

to decide on the facts of each case when anticipatory bail can

be granted and when the court can "think fit" to allow the [B.A.No.4274/08] 7 relief. It is held in Bharat Chaudhary v. State of Bihar ,

((2003) 8 SCC 77), as follows: " 13. Nature of offence: I shall first consider the nature of

offence allegedly involved in this case. The case diary reveals

various shocking instances, how huge amount of money

running to crores could be dishonestly and fraudulently siphoned

off from the government exchequer by various government

contractors, Engineers, officials of PWD, Grama Panchayath,

District Panchayaths etc. etc. This was done by using fake bills

supplied by first accused. The case diary also shows that just

like the first accused there were some other persons also who

were engaged in similar activity of fabricating bills and supplying

the same to various persons who are in need of the fake bills to

claim huge money from government. 14. In many cases, on the strength of each of such fake

bills (which are purported to be issued for supply of bitumen

(tar) from BPCL and IOC), more than two lakhs were claimed

and disbursed by government to various government contractors

and other persons. This mode of misappropriation and forgery

was carried on, since a very long time past at least from 1995 [B.A.No.4274/08] 8 onwards. The first accused prepared the bills with the help of his

computer, lap top etc. He also got some bills printed at a Press

and many persons approached him to get such fake bills. He

charged an amount of Rs. 2000 to Rs 5000 for each bill and

supplied them to various persons including Engineers working in

PWD. 15. The first accused gave the details of many persons,

local authorities, engineers in the PWD etc. etc. during custodial

interrogation. More details were collected from his lap top,

computer, pen drive, forged bills etc., which were siezed from

the house and office of first accused, pursuant to the information

given by the first accused to the Sub Inspector under section 27 of the Evidence Act. He had, in his lap top and pen drive, the

names and details of various persons who were involved in the

offence. Several forged bills were also seized from his

possession which contain the details of several engineers,

contractors etc. A rough estimate itself reveals that a huge

financial loss to the tune of crores of rupees is caused to the

government. 16. The first accused was questioned on more than one

occasion. Several valuable information regarding the persons

who were involved in the offence was received from the first [B.A.No.4274/08] 9 accused. He was scheduled to be questioned on 27.12.2007 by

the Crime Branch officials. He must be expected to divulge

much more details about the persons who were involved in the

crime. But, he was found missing on the evening of 26.12.2007

and his dead body floated in the river on 29.12.2007. When

learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate released him to

police custody and also when he was released on bail, he

cautioned the State about the safety of the fist accused by

making specific observations in this regard. But, a very valuable

source is 'left to be lost' for ever and the cause of death is still

under investigation. 17. In such circumstances, no doubt, no court can

overlook the seriousness and gravity of the offence and the

nature of allegation made. State itself is the aggrieved in this

case and this court cannot ignore the interest of the State. The

larger interests of the public or the State is certainly one of the

factors to be taken into account while an application for

anticipatory bail is considered. Therefore, the gravity and

nature of offence committed, the specific allegations made

against petitioner, the societal interest are all factors which

only dissuade this Court from granting anticipatory bail to the

petitioner. [B.A.No.4274/08] 10 18. Need for custodial interrogation: As already

referred to by me earlier, Supreme Court has made it clear that

the need for custodial interrogation is a factor to be looked into

in an application for anticipatory bail. According to learned

counsel for the accused, even if petitioner is required for

custodial interrogation, it is enough if a condition is imposed that

petitioner shall make himself available for interrogation. With

due respect, I can only disagree with this. 19. Custodial Interrogation means? "Custodial

interrogation" does not mean mere questioning of the accused

by the police. It has a different connotation in law. To constitute

"custodial interrogation", there must be: (i) "custody" of the

accused by police and also (ii) "interrogation" by the police. If

an accused is released on bail, he is set at liberty by the court

and he is not under anybody's custody. When bail is granted,

custody ceases. The question of police custody does not arise

thereafter, unless the bail is cancelled. By granting bail,

accused is absolutely released from police custody and it may

not be proper to say that the accused is in "custody" of police,

after he is released on bail. If there be any interrogation by the

police while on bail, it cannot be termed to be "custodial

interrogation" it is mere "interrogation" without police custody. [B.A.No.4274/08] 11 This is clear from what the Constitution Bench of the Supreme

Court held in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of Punjab ,

(1980) 2 SCC 565) thus : 20. So, strictly speaking, there will not be any "custodial

interrogation" by police, once the accused is released on bail. If

a police officer interrogates the accused in a case, after his

release on bail, it will not amount to "custodial interrogation",

because the police cannot claim his "custody". He is an

absolutely free person upon his release on bail, being not under

anybody's custody, much less, the police custody. 21. Custodial interrogation is legal: It is also relevant

to note that "custodial interrogation" is not forbidden by law. On

the other hand, it is legal and recognized by the statute. Under section 167(2) of the code, the Magistrate is empowered to

release the accused to "police custody" and such custody is

allowed, mostly for the purpose of interrogation. During such [B.A.No.4274/08] 12 period, an accused is interrogated by the police in police custody

and recovery may also be effected. But, even such custody

cannot be given to the police, after expiry of the first fifteen days

of remand. That is the settled legal position. Therefore, the

custodial interrogation at the early stage of investigation after

the arrest has some statutory importance. 22. The police has the right to keep the accused in their

custody for some time after the arrest and it is enough that the

accused is produced before Magistrate within 24 hours. During

this period, between arrest and production, the accused is

subjected to some restraint and he will be under the physical

control by the police. His movements will be restricted and it can

then be said that he was in "police custody". It is during such

custody that he is subjected to "custodial interrogation" and

recovery of various material objects are effected through him. 23. Custodial interrogation - purpose. Thus,

"custodial interrogation" appears to have a specific purpose

which is recognized by law also. The confession, statement or

information given to the police officer while in police custody is

given certain amount of sanctity also, as per law. Such

statements are admissible under section 27 of Evidence Act

under certain circumstances. Section 26 of the Evidence Act [B.A.No.4274/08] 13 also indicates that confession made by an accused while in

custody of a police officer, in the immediate presence of a

Magistrate, may be proved against an accused. Thus, statement

or confession made by an accused in police custody can be

proved against him, as per law. The confession made by an

accused to a police officer in police custody is admissible under

certain enactments like TADA Act etc. 24. Thus, the police can, in law, procure or elicit

confession, statement or information, which is admissible in law

or not, by interrogation of the accused in police custody. Such

interrogation is ordinarily referred to as "custodial interrogation".

The court may accept or reject the materials collected during

such custodial interrogation, after putting them to judicial

scrutiny. 25. Denial of custodial interrogation if proper?

But, it may not be proper to deny an investigator an opportunity

for "custodial interrogation" of an accused, in fit cases. Unless

there are strong reasons to avoid an accused being subjected to

"custodial interrogation", the court shall not stand in the way of

the police discharging their official duty, which is sanctioned by

law. It must be remembered that investigating agency also plays

a very vital role in criminal justice system. The evidence- [B.A.No.4274/08] 14 collection is a part of investigation, as per law. The aggrieved or

the victim ordinarily approaches the police and not the court, for

redressing their grievance, immediately after an offence is

committed. 26. As per the provisions of the code, when a crime is

committed against him or her, he may move the police first,

unless otherwise prescribed. On doing so, the investigator may

proceed to collect evidence relating to such crime. The accused

may also be subjected to custodial interrogation, especially in

cases where certain facts whether incriminating or not are in his

exclusive knowledge. Such materials are collected legally by

interrogation of the accused in "police custody". There is no

illegality in "custodial interrogation". But it is legally recognized

by statute. 27. So, when the investigator alerts the court on the need

for custodial interrogation, the court must pay due attention to

the need expressed and if the court finds that his request is

reasonable, the court shall not refuse the same and deny the

opportunity to "custodial interrogation", as permitted by law. It

must be remembered that it is based on the materials collected

by the investigator, which includes evidence through custodial

interrogation also, that he forms an opinion whether there is a [B.A.No.4274/08] 15 case to place the accused before the court for trial or not by

filing of a charge-sheet under Section 173. 28. Referring to "investigation", the Supreme Court in Union of India v. Prakash P. Hinduja , (2003) 6 SCC 195 held

as follows: and it includes all the proceedings under
 the Code for the collection of evidence
 conducted by a police officer or by any
 person (other than a Magistrate) who is
 authorised by a Magistrate in this behalf. It
 ends with the formation of the opinion as
 to whether on the material collected, there
 is a case to place the accused before a
 Magistrate for trial and if so, taking the
 necessary steps for the same by filing of a
 charge-sheet under Section 173." The purpose of "custodial interrogation" is also thus, a factor

which has to be borne in mind. 29. Interrogation means? The word, "interrogate ", as

per dictionary means, "to ask somebody a lot of questions over a

long period of time, especially in an aggressive way" (vide

Oxford Dictionary). Such 'aggressiveness' within a reasonable

limit may not amount to torture, because the very expression

"interrogation" itself is attached with some sort of

aggressiveness. Therefore, any allegation of a possible

aggressiveness in questioning by police may not be a sufficient

ground to deny to the police, their opportunity to have "custodial [B.A.No.4274/08] 16 interrogation" of the accused. This is intended for collecting

evidence and to redress the grievance of the victim by bringing

the accused before law. When the police officer confronts a

guilty person, needless to say, he may not readily give answers

to all the queries made. He may be reluctant to avoid the

inconvenient truth and hence it may require sustained

questioning of the accused over a long period and in some

cases, in an aggressive manner also. 30. A few observations made by the Supreme court may

be relevant in this context. While setting aside an order of

anticipatory bail granted by Andra Pradesh High court, rejecting

the plea for "custodial interrogation", the Supreme Court in

State rep. by the CBI v. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187 held as

follows: 31. The ground realities have to be understood by the

courts and it shall not be impractical, especially when the

investigation is at the initial stage. It must be remembered that

it is the duty of the investigating agency to collect sufficient

materials and place them before court. So, in short the court has

to strike a balance between the right of a victim to be

protected by law and also the freedom or liberty of the accused

which shall not be interfered with, except in accordance with

law. While the liberty of a citizen is of grave concern of the

court, that alone must not be the concern. The court must see

the other side of the coin as well, and justice must be delivered

to both sides equally. 32. In the above circumstances, the argument by

learned counsel for petitioner to the effect that it would suffice,

if a condition is imposed while granting anticipatory bail that he

shall subject himself to interrogation by police cannot be

accepted. [B.A.No.4274/08] 18 33. Interrogation Vs. Custodial Interrogation: 34. It is true that sub-section (2) of section 438 of the

code lays down that a condition may be imposed that the

accused shall make himself available for "interrogation" by the

police as and when directed. It is relevant to note that the

expression used is,"interrogation" and not "custodial"

interrogation. The legislature is aware that after granting bail, [B.A.No.4274/08] 19 in the event of arrest, there cannot be any "custodial

interrogation," though mere "interrogation" may be possible. 35. At any rate, imposition of a condition arises only

after the court "thinks fit" to issue a direction under sub-section

(1) of Section 438. The court is empowered to impose certain

conditions as stated in sub-section(2) of section 438, only when

the court makes a direction under sub-section(1) and, not

before. That means, the order passed under Section 438(1)

takes effect immediately in the event of arrest and the accused

has to be released on bail immediately thereafter. Therefore,

any interrogation of the accused by the police in cases where

the accused is released on bail, as per an order issued under

Section 438(1) of the Code, will not constitute "custodial

interrogation. 36. It is worthy to bear in mind that anticipatory bail

application is filed by a person who wishes to evade arrest,

custodial interrogation and detention in custody also, whether

"police custody" or "judicial custody". Such a person may either

be guilty or not guilty. But, the court presumes him to be

innocent, even if he is actually guilty and proceed on such

presumption of innocence. But, an investigator may not be able

to proceed on any such presumption because, from the [B.A.No.4274/08] 20 evidence collected during investigation, he will be able to form a

reasonable belief about the guilt of the person. 37. So, while exercising jurisdiction under section 438 of

the code, at the very early stage of investigation, that is, even

before the arrest is effected, it may not be proper, under all

circumstances, to apply the presumption of innocence blind-fold,

and refuse the request for "custodial interrogation". The court

has to weigh the materials before it and consider the request

made by the Investigator for "custodial interrogation" and decide

whether it is a reasonable one and if such custodial interrogation

will be necessary to bring out the truth and also for an effective

investigation. 38. The court's concern shall not, at that juncture be one-

sided that too, on the sole theory of presumption innocence of

the accused or on any pre-conceived notion that the accused

will be subjected to custodial "torture". The court shall be

concerned about the victim also and his or her grievances, on

whose behalf the police acts and collects evidence. It is wise to

remember that police also has their own vital role to play. If

the court interferes with such role, without sufficient reason, the

net result may be lawlessness in the society. The victim of a

crime may become yet another victim at the hands of the [B.A.No.4274/08] 21 criminal justice delivery system also. In such circumstances, it is

wise to remind oneself that an order passed without application

of mind may end up in drastic results and the police will be

prevented from collecting sufficient materials and place them

before the court to prove the alleged offence. The court must be

able to distinguish the genuine request and the fake one. 39. Now, back to the facts: On going through the

case diary and considering the nature of allegations made, it

appears to me that this is a case where several facts relating to

the offence may be within the exclusive knowledge of the

petitioner. Therefore, custodial interrogation of petitioner may

also be necessary for an effective investigation to elicit the

various details pertaining to the offence which are in the

exclusive knowledge of the petitioner. It is pertinent to note in

this context that it is only because the Sub Inspector

interrogated the first accused in police custody that all the basic

materials relating to the offence could be collected at the very

early stage of the investigation itself. 40. Had the first accused not been interrogated, it would

not have been possible to get the very valuable information

relating to the names and details of persons who are associated

with him in connection with the crime; to whom he had supplied [B.A.No.4274/08] 22 the fake bills; who had used the forged bills prepared by him;

how and where he created the bills; where he had stored the

details of the bills etc., etc. It would not have been possible for

the police to effect recovery of various material objects,

documents etc., on the very next day of the registration of the

crime. 41. The details of the bills used by the petitioner, the

details of the nature of work for which he used them, from

where he obtained the bills and through whom he obtained the

same, whether he had obtained similar bills from any other

person and if so, his details etc. are all relevant details which

can be procured by custodial interrogation of the petitioner. If

anticipatory bail is granted at this stage, I am of view that it may

result in permanent loss of a source of valuable information

relating to a serious offence like this. If the police ever feels the

need to interrogate petitioner in police custody, I do not want to

refuse such opportunity to them, in best the interest of the

State, which unfortunately does not appear to be the concern of

the State at present. 42. No cause for apprehension of torture: On the facts

of this case, there need not be any apprehension that petitioner

will be subjected to any custodial torture. Even the first accused [B.A.No.4274/08] 23 did not have any complaint of torture, though voluminous

materials were elicited by custodial interrogation through him. It

appears to me that this is a case where accused were favoured

and cradled by the police, particularly the higher officials. There

is an inordinate delay in bringing several names to the array of

accused, even after getting sufficient materials to implicate

various persons as accused. Even now, no steps are taken

against many persons against whom the case diary contain

sufficient materials to proceed against. 43. Interference on police by police ? There appears

to be a deliberate attempt on the part of the higher officials to

divert the junior officials from proceeding against a probable

accused. It is clear form the case diary that the Sub Inspector

who detected the crime himself had collected sufficient

materials, as early as on the very next day of the registration of

crime, ie., on 7.11.07, to establish that the bills issued in the

name of Sri N.K. Abdul Kader were forged. His full address and

the details were shown in the First Information Statement itself.

It is also seen from the case diary that anticipatory bail

application filed by Sri.V. Mohanan, Perumbavur, Ernakulam on

2.6.2008 before this court as B.A.3765/2008. He is not yet

arrested but, when the Circle Inspector (CB CID) was proceeding [B.A.No.4274/08] 24 to investigate into the role of the contractors, a curious direction

was issued by the IG(Crimes). 44. At page 130 of case diary Volume V that there is a

written instruction from IG (Crimes) CB CID on 10.6.2008 thus: 45. Circle Inspector (CB-CID) kept away ? It is not

understood why the Circle Inspector was kept away from the

investigation being conducted into the involvement of the

contractors against whom there were sufficient materials even

on the very next day of the arrest of the first accused. It appears

that the Circle Inspector, CBCID was almost prevented by the

interference of the higher officials from laying his hands on

anybody against whom materials were collected. It also appears

that the instructions given were more to avoid the investigators [B.A.No.4274/08] 25 from booking the culprits rather than aiding them to accelerate

the progress in investigation. The context in which the

directions issued is certainly conspicuous. It is pertinent to note

that as per the case diary that Inspector General Of Police

(Crimes) CB CID himself had looked into the case file and given

instructions in connection with the investigation in this case.

Superintend of Police , Crime Branch CID had also been dealing

with the case. 46. Still, after sending away the Circle Inspector for a

roving search into all the PWD offices for a "beat-about-bush",

Superintend of Police , Crime Branch CID prepared and signed a

statement intended to be filed in court in connection with the

anticipatory bail application filed by Sri. Mohanan and stated

therein as follows: "till now, the petitioner is not included in the

array of accused, since the investigating officer has not got

sufficient time to go through the files concerned". How can he

get any time ? The Circle Inspector, Crime Branch CID, had by

then started his long journey to the various PWD offices in

obedience of the direction issued by the IG(Crimes) since he

was directed to finish the work by 30.6.2008. 47. Thus, the Investigating officer was away from station

for a period of 20 days, not been able to do any thing fruitful. [B.A.No.4274/08] 26 The investigation by the Circle Inspector appears to have been

diverted by unwanted interference. Even now, the said Mohanan

is not made an accused, presumably, due to lack of time ? It is

also curious to note that on the day on which the dead body of

the first accused was seen floating, Circle Inspector was urgently

relieved from duty to take up special duty at Sabarimala. The

Additional Sub Inspector conducted investigation into the

"unnatural death" of the first accused, and why the Sub

Inspector who detected the crime did not take up the issue is

another mystery. 48. Contents of case diary highly disturbing: As a

whole, the case diary reveals a very deplorable and shocking

state of affairs. I will be doing an injustice to the society, if I fail

to at least mention some striking instances noted by me. This is

essential also, to decide whether any monitoring by Magistrate

is required in this case in the light of the dictum laid down by the

Supreme Court in Sakiri Vasu v. State of Utter Pradesh and

others ( (2008)2 SCC 409). As early as on 7.11.07, i.e., on the

very next day of the detection of the crime and arrest of the first

accused, the Sub Inspector Hill Palace Police Station collected

very valuable materials in connection with the crime, (including

the names and details of the persons to whom the first accused [B.A.No.4274/08] 27 supplied forged bills to claim more than Rs. 2 lakhs per bill) he

did not do anything on the next day. The investigation in this

case came to almost an abrupt stop, thereafter. The Sub

Inspector did not do any thing on 8.11.2007, not even a whisper

on this case. His enthusiasm and vigour appear to have

vanished, within just hardly one and half days. 49. Investigation in a stand still ? The investigation

practically came to a stand still. The case diary depicts the

picture of an enthusiastic Sub Inspector who conducted a

thorough investigation and found out materials within a period of

just one day being totally silenced. The reasons are obvious. It

is mentioned in the case diary that several agencies,

Government contractors and named persons, Panchayat, quasi-

governmental organizations, private persons etc., are all

involved in the offence and certain lists were prepared, C.D. etc.

are kept in the file. After collecting all such details relating to

various contractors and other persons and also the details of

the various fake bills used by them, it is not likely that he would

become inert by himself. 50. But what transpired? Some "strong invisible hands" 51. No enquiry about person mentioned in FIR: The

fact that bills which were prepared by the first accused for the

use of one N. K. Abdulkader, Ponath House, Koratty, Chalakkudy,

Thrissur District (whose name and address were given in the

First Information Statement itself ) were forged was established

on 7.11.07 itself. For this purpose, the Sub Inspector questioned

officials of BPCL and IOC also and documents were also seized.

Each bill issued in the name of N. K. Abdulkader was for an

amount of Rs.2,43,710/- . It is seen from the contents of First

Information Statement that those were fabricated by

first accused under instructions of one Rafique, attached to [B.A.No.4274/08] 29 P.B.Khabirkhan Transport Company. But, absolutely nothing till

today, to trace out any of these persons. 52. Any police officer, whether experienced or

inexperienced, or even a layman will be aware of the need to

make an investigation into the involvement of the persons who

are named in the FIR. This is a State where investigation is very

often conducted by police to find out even persons who are not

named in the FIR and implicate them after collecting materials.

But, it is surprising that even though months have elapsed and

the investigation is taken over by the Crime Branch also,

nothing is done so far to investigate into the involvement of

persons who are specifically mentioned in the FIR. 53. No steps against third accused: So also, bills

issued in the name of the third accused were found to be

forged in the investigation conducted by the Sub Inspector, as

early on 7.11.07 itself, on the very next day of the first

accused's arrest. As per the case diary, he had claimed more

than Rs.2 lakhs, as per each bill and about 20 such bills were

given to him by the first accused. Such details are in the case

diary on 7.11.07 itself. Documents were also seized to prove

that he used forged bills. But, the name of the third accused

was brought into the array of accused after a very long time. [B.A.No.4274/08] 30 Later, anticipatory bail was granted to him also. 54. Others also not implicated: The case diary further

reveals that just like the first accused, certain other persons

were also engaged in similar activities and they had also

fabricated bills in the same manner and given for similar use.

Their names and details also find a place in the case diary.

Though the Crime Branch has taken over the investigation, no

attempts are made even now to book them. Nobody seems to be

interested in bringing the offenders to light. Instead, there

appears to be a deliberate attempt by an invisible force, to

protect them. 55. First confession statement, manipulated ? Even

the evidence so far collected appears to be manipulated. The

first confession statement of the first accused was recorded by

the Sub Inspector on 6.11. 07, as seen from the case diary. It is

in this statement that the various details of the persons to whom

the first accused gave the forged bill were recorded. But, there

appears to be an erasure of three such names on the last page

of the confession statement (vide overleaf page 55 of case diary

Vol.I). The first confession statement of first accused is now

seen at pages 49 to 55 in the case diary in volume I. The erasure

is visible even by a naked eye. This statement alone is unsigned [B.A.No.4274/08] 31 by the Sub Inspector. 56. It is clear from the case diary that whenever the Sub

Inspector recorded a statement or prepared a Mahazar or the

like, he had been affixing his signature. At page 363 of volume-I

of the case diary and overleaf, another confession statement of

the first accused is seen recorded by him on 19.11.2007. It is

signed by the Sub Inspector. All the entries made by him are

seen signed, such as, mahazar, search list, search memo,

statements of various witnesses etc. etc. But the confession

statement (at pages 49 to 55)alone appears to be in a peculiar

handwriting which is different from the hand writing in other

pages and it is unsigned also. 57. Death of first accused: It is relevant to note that

the first accused who gave such details to the Sub Inspector died

under suspicious circumstances. The investigation into that

crime is also not free from suspicion. It is seen from the two

orders passed by the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate that

learned Magistrate expressed his concern over safety of the

first accused. While granting bail to the first accused and also

while releasing him to police custody, the court expressed such

concern. In the bail order, he mentioned, "safety of the accused

is the concern of the State". It is not usual to make such [B.A.No.4274/08] 32 observations, unless the accused himself expressed such

apprehension. But, no investigation was directed into the source

of any possible threat to the first accused. 58. It is also to be noted that the accused was to appear

before the crime branch office on 27th of December. But, he was

allegedly found missing since the previous evening on 26th.

Being on bail, it is unlikely that he will anticipate any danger

from the police during interrogation. But, whether any persons

who were involved in the crime feared exposure of their

involvement at the hands of the first Accused was not looked

into. Nobody seems to be interested in ascertaining such details

and absolutely no investigation is done in this line. 59. It is also to be seen that the dead body was found

floating in river with his hands lifted up, with his face upwards.

No forensic expert is questioned to find out whether such

position of the body will indicate a suicide or a homicide.

Though he was missing from 26th onwards, and body was

recovered on 29th, the autopsy was conducted much later. Why

there was a delay, is unknown. The investigation is conducted

into this crime by the Additional Sub Inspector. It is not

understood why the Sub Inspector who detected the crime and

arrested the accused did not take up the investigation or no [B.A.No.4274/08] 33 steps were taken by the Circle Inspector to get that case also

transferred to the Crime Branch. 60. Judicial monitoring required ? There are various

other glaring facts which deserve to be commented upon, in

relation to the investigation. But, I would exercise judicial

restraint at this stage of investigation though I have to state the

flaws and laches to some extent to consider whether judicial

monitoring is required. It is quite evident that both the cases did

not catch the attention which those deserved from the

investigating agency. A step-motherly attitude was shown to

both cases, though the State is expected to bestow more care

and concern over those cases, since State itself is the victim.

There is no hope that the matters will improve any further. Still,

the court is not powerless, especially in the wake of the decision

reported in Sakiri Vasu v State of Utter Pradesh and

others ( (2008)2 SCC 409). 61. On a consideration of the various facts I find that this

is a fit case in which powers of the Court is to be invoked to

protect the interest of the State, even though the State itself

neglected its own cause. Appropriate orders will have to be

issued for a judicial monitoring of the investigation, in the best

interest of the society and public at large. There may not be [B.A.No.4274/08] 34 any surprise if the society does not repose confidence in this

type of investigation. None can ever blame when society

clamour for investigation by other agencies. But the courts have

their own limits, especially in a bail application. Whatever

possible as per law alone can be done and shall be done by

passing appropriate orders. 62. Petitioner if similarly placed ? Now, I shall deal

with the last question-- whether petitioner is entitled for

anticipatory bail because it was granted to other contractors. It

was argued that petitioner and the other accused (to whom

anticipatory bail was granted) are government contractors.

Same offence was also alleged against them also. Therefore,

having granted anticipatory bail to the others, petitioner shall

also be granted anticipatory bail. On a first blush, it may sound a

good argument. True, it may appear that each of the accused

are similarly placed and that is only because they are all

contractors and the offence for which they are proceeded

against are also the same. 63. But, on going deeper into the facts carefully, it is

revealed from the case diary that prima facie, each of accused

committed distinct offences. The date, time, place, the quantum

of money involved, the nature of the work done, the manner in [B.A.No.4274/08] 35 which the forged documents are obtained, the person through

whom the bills are obtained, the manner in which the offence is

committed, are all different. If three murders are committed by

three different persons by using different materials supplied by

another accused, one by strangulating, another by stabbing and

yet another by poisoning on different dates, time and place,

those may constitute three distinct offences, though the section

may fall under section 302 IPC. But in such a case, the fact that

one of the accused is granted anticipatory bail may not be made

a ground to grant the same relief to the other. 64. The manner in which the offence is committed by

each of the accused, the witnesses relating to the offence,

information which can be gathered from each accused may also

be different from each other. By questioning a particular

accused, whatever information can be gathered may not be the

same when another accused is questioned. He may have to

speak regarding different factors . The nature of his

involvement in the offence and the modus operandi adopted

by him in the commission of offence may be different from

other accused. 65. Considerations under Section 438 Cr.P.C

different form those under Section 439 Cr.P.C: Therefore, [B.A.No.4274/08] 36 the conventional rule that if an accused is granted bail similarly

placed accused shall also be granted bail may not apply in a

fact-situation like this. Post-arrest and pre-arrest bail differ

substantially. Though in a case of post- arrest bail, an accused

may be entitled to be released on bail, on the ground that a

similarly placed accused is granted bail, it may not have

universal application in an application for anticipatory bail. That

is for the reason that the relevant considerations for grant of

post-arrest bail and pre-arrest bail differ. In the post-arrest

stage, information would have already been collected and

recovery would also have been effected. 66. But, on a pre-arrest stage, no recovery would have

taken place. The accused would not have been arrested. He

would not have been interrogated in custody. In such

circumstances, the relevant facts which may stand scrutiny in a

pre-arrest bail under section 438 and a post -arrest bail under

section 437 or 439 may materially differ. Therefore, anticipatory

bail cannot be granted or refused to an accused mechanically,

without proper application of mind, on the mere ground that

another co-accused was granted the relief. 67. Regarding the difference in the relevant consideration [B.A.No.4274/08] 37 in pre-arrest and post-arrest bail, the Supreme Court in Pokar

Ram v. State of Rajasthan , (1985) 2 SCC 597) held thus: I gain support from the above ruling also. Thus, while looking at

the issue from any angle, I find that the petitioner does not

deserve anticipatory bail. 68. Before I conclude: But, before I conclude, I have to

mention another very important aspect, without which, this order

will not be complete. Different Benches of this Court on different

dates granted anticipatory bail to different accused who are all

government contractors (vide orders in B.A.Nos.1366,1948,

2463, 2755, 3689 and 4003 of 2008). The first order was passed

on 17.3.2008 in B.A.No.1366 of 2008. 69. Later, the second accused was granted anticipatory

bail as per order dated 31.3.2008 in B.A.No.1948/2008. The fifth,

sixth, seventh and eighth accused were also granted the same [B.A.No.4274/08] 38 relief, one after the other. Anticipatory bail was granted mainly

on the ground that both sides agreed that if anticipatory bail is

granted to one accused in a crime, similarly placed accused shall

also be granted the same relief. Even a person who is not yet

implicated as accused also was granted anticipatory bail. This

Bench also granted bail to other co-accused on the same ground. 70. But, it is clear from all those orders that the case diary

which now runs to VIII volumes had not been placed before this

Court while those applications were heard by different Benches.

But after having spent considerable time on the huge volumes

of case diary by myself now, by burning much of the midnight oil,

several disturbing facts have come to the notice of this Court.

The State did not take up the matter, either before this Court or

before the Supreme Court for cancellation of anticipatory bail to

any of the accused, but sailed along with the accused. After

taking the strain to closely go through the case diary (after

calling for the same), this Court has now pointed out the various

facts which are disturbing. It is evident that the investigation of

this case as well as in the case of "unnatural death" is not in safe

hands. 71. Summing up my discussion, I hold that though it may

appear to be unusual to reject anticipatory bail to seemingly, [B.A.No.4274/08] 39 similarly placed accused, for the various reasons discussed in

this order, I find that nothing shall be a reason for this court to

prevent miscarriage of justice. There is a compelling necessity,

on the facts and circumstances of this case, in the larger interest

of public justice, (which, unfortunately the State does not seem

to be concerned about) that the State considers whether the

case of the co-accused deserves to be looked into again for

appropriate remedy, especially in the light of the various facts

pointed out by this court, after going through the case diary at

length. The learned Director General of Prosecution who is also a

Minister of Justice may advise the state appropriately. 72. Preserve evidence: In the peculiar facts and

circumstances of this case, I also find that the evidence and data

already collected in investigation need be preserved. Unless

some order is passed, it is likely that the evidence so far

collected may also be destroyed or manipulated by some

"invisible hands". Taking into consideration, the evident

unwarranted interference of the "invisible force" which diverts

and controls the course of investigation in this case, which

appears to have been connived at by the State itself, I find that

a lawful interference of the judiciary is essential in this case,

at the investigation stage of the relevant two cases. Lest, I [B.A.No.4274/08] 40 strongly feel, public interest will be the causality and there will

be no point in lamenting later, at the stage of trial, about the

poor plight of the case. This is a typical case where the case

diary reveals that in this 'God's own country', there is

'accused's own police'. Taking all the above facts into consideration, on the

peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, I pass the

following order: This petition is disposed of accordingly. K.HEMA, JUDGE

vgs/krs