1 Both the accused have been sent up to face trial for commission
of offences under Sections 120-B IPC r/w Sec 7 and 13 (1) (d) r/w 13(2) PC
Act of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and substantive offences thereof by
CBI. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE

2 Complainant Ashok Yadav (PW4) was proprietor of M/s A.K.
Electronics and used to undertake jobs related to painting, electrical works
etc. He got work-orders for his said firm from IIT, New Delhi. These were as CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 1 of 38 under: 7,500/-. 3 Accused Rafat Jamal, Assistant Engineer was looking after the
work of Executive Engineer (Electrical) in IIT, New Delhi and accused
Pardeep Verma was Junior Engineer and according to complainant, they both
had demanded 10 per cent of the total work-contract amount as bribe. All the
three work had been completed and complainant had already received
payment with respect to said first two contracts. According to complainant,
he was being pressurized by both the accused to pay 10 per cent amount
otherwise he would not get any further contract from IIT, New Delhi in future.
As per the last demand dated 18.03.2006, accused Pradeep Verma had
asked for Rs. 3,500/-. 10 per cent was demanded out of last payment of Rs.
28,000/- and 10 per cent demand was for the balance amount of Rs. 7500/-
for third work-contract payment for which was yet to be released. 4 Complainant, however, contacted CBI for taking appropriate
action against both the accused persons. Secret verification was carried out
and case was registered on 22.03.2006. 5 On 22.03.2006 complainant gave complaint in writing against
both the accused regarding alleged demand of bribe. Independent witnesses
were arranged. Complainant was introduced to such independent witnesses,
namely, Sh. Narender Kumar (since deceased) and Sh. Suresh Chand
(PW15) and they ascertained the genuineness of the allegations levelled by
complainant and in their presence, complainant was asked to contact CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 2 of 38 accused and accordingly complainant contacted accused Pradeep Verma
and conversation, which he had with accused Pradeep Verma in the office of
CBI on 22.03.2006, was recorded. As per the conversation, there was
demand of bribe by accused Pradeep Verma. Pre-trap formalities were
concluded and scientific method of laying of trap and chemical reaction
between phenolphthalein powder and sodium carbonate was explained to
the witnesses. Complainant also produced an amount of Rs. 3,500/- which
he had brought for handing over to the accused. Numbers and denomination
of such GC notes were recorded in pre-trap memo and notes were treated
with phenolphthalein powder and were put in an envelope which was also
treated with phenolphthalein powder. Raiding party was once again briefed
and PW Sh. Narender Kumar was asked to accompany the complainant as
shadow witness and raiding team left CBI office for IIT, Hauz Khas.
Complainant was also requested to signal the acceptance of bribe by putting
his right hand over head. Independent witness Sh. Suresh Chand was also
asked to be a member of trap team. Complainant was also provided with
digital phone recorder. It was the same one in which earlier telephonic
conversation between him and accused Pradeep Verma had been recorded
in CBI office. Complainant was also provided with eavesdropping mobile
phone instrument for simultaneous recording of the conversation. Team
reached at IIT, New Delhi at about 4.00 PM. 6 Complainant and shadow witness met accused Pradeep Verma
in his office where complainant introduced shadow witness as his landlord.
Complainant informed Pradeep Verma that he had come for handing over
amount. However, accused Pradeep Verma told him that it would not be
proper for him to accompany him to the office of accused Rafat Jamal and
asked him to go there directly. Complainant asked him as to what amount
was to be handed over. Accused Pardeep Verma then told him that it was not
the first instance and such question was not required to be asked. Thereafter,
complainant and shadow witness went to the office of accused Rafat Jamal. He was reportedly busy in some meeting. After some time, complainant met
accused Rafat Jamal. According to complainant, there was conversation
between them and during conversation, accused Rafat Jamal demanded
bribe money by giving indication with his fingers and upon such indication, he
handed over that envelope to accused Rafat Jamal. Accused Rafat Jamal
took the envelope from complainant and opened the same and counted the
money and then kept the envelope in the left pocket of his wearing pants.
Thereafter, complainant along with shadow witness came out of the room of
Rafat Jamal and gave pre-designed signal to the trap team. Rafat Jamal was
then surrounded by the members of trap team. He tried to flee away but was
overpowered. Bribe money was also recovered from left side pocket of
wearing pants of accused Rafat Jamal and denomination and number
mentioned on such notes were tallied with the numbers mentioned in pre-trap
memo. Hand wash of both hands and wash of inner portion of left side pocket
of pants of accused Rafat Jamal were taken separately in colorless sodium
carbonate solution which turned pink thereby confirming the acceptance of
bribe by accused Rafat Jamal. Such bottles were sealed at the spot. Further
investigation was carried out. Accused Pradeep Verma was also brought
from his office to the office of accused Rafat Jamal and they both were put
under arrest. Digital recorder, used for recording of conversation, was
handed over to witness Sh. Suresh Chand and was brought to the CBI office where contents of the same were downloaded on computer and then transferred to CD. Such CD was also sealed. 7 Hand-wash and pocket-wash were sent to CFSL and report of
CFSL confirmed the presence of phenolphthalein therein. During
investigation, sample voice of both accused and complainant were also taken
and tapes containing sample voice along with questioned CD were also sent
to CFSL. Sanction for initiation of prosecution of both the accused was also
obtained and it is in these circumstances that charge-sheet was filed on
28.09.2006. 8 Cognizance was taken by the Court on 12.10.2006 and both
accused were ordered to be summoned. CHARGES FRAMED AGAINST ACCUSED

9 Order on charge was passed on 07.01.2008 whereby it was
directed that charge be framed against both the accused under Sections
120-B IPC r/w Sec 7 and 13 (1) (d) r/w 13(2) PC Act of Prevention of
Corruption Act and substantive offences under Prevention of Corruption Act were also directed to be framed against both the accused. 10 Charges were framed on 08.01.2008 to which both the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. WITNESSES FOR PROSECUTION

11 Prosecution was directed to adduce evidence and has
examined twenty witnesses viz PW1 Prof. V.S. Ramamurthy, PW2 Dr. A.L.
Vyas, PW3 Surinder Prasad, PW4 Ashok Kumar Yadav, PW5 P.V.K. Raja,
PW6 Arvind Shekhar, PW7 Satpal Singh, PW8 Dr. K.S. Rao, PW9 Pradeep
Kumar Gautam, PW10 Prem Singh Rawat, PW11 Kuldeep Kumar Jain, PW12
Ghan Shyam, PW13 Vinu T. Abraham, PW14 Capt. B.N. Yadav, PW15
Suresh Chand, PW16 A.D. Tiwari, PW17 V.B. Ramteke, PW18 Deepak
Kumar Tanwar, PW19 Insp. Arun Rawat and PW20 DSP A.B. Chaudhary. 12 Complainant Ashok Kumar Yadav has been examined as PW4.
It will be important to mention here that he has not supported the case of
prosecution and, therefore, he was cross-examined by the prosecution with
the permission of the Court. 13 Shadow witness Sh. Narender Kumar, unfortunately, died before
he could depose before the Court. 14 PW5 P.V.K. Raja and PW12 Ghan Shyam are independent
witnesses who remained in CBI office. 15 PW1 Prof. V.S. Ramamurthy has proved sanction for
prosecution for accused Rafat Jamal and PW3 Surinder Prasad has deposed
regarding according sanction for prosecution for accused Pradeep Verma. 16 PW6 Arvind Shekhar, PW9 Pradeep Kumar Gautam and PW10
Vinu T. Abraham are the witnesses in whose presence, voice sample of both
the accused were taken in Tihar on 18.04.2006. 17 It will not be out of place to mention here that during
investigation, CBI suspected involvement of two more public servants,
namely, Mohan Upreti and Gurbaksh Singh but nothing concrete could come
against them, therefore, they were neither arrested nor charge-sheeted.
However, their voice specimen were taken during investigation and such fact
has been confirmed by PW7 Satpal Singh and PW20 A.B. Chaudhary. 18 PW2 Dr. A.L. Vyas, PW8 Dr. K.S. Rao and PW10 Prem Singh
Rawat are from IIT, New Delhi and they have been examined for the purpose
of proving the files related to three contracts in question and the signatures of
accused persons on such files. 19 PW14 Capt. B.N. Yadav was posted as Security Officer at IIT,
Hauz Khas, New Delhi on 22.03.2006 and he was called at the spot after the
acceptance of bribe money and hand wash and pants pocket wash was done
in his presence. 20 PW15 Suresh Chand is independent witness. He had also
accompanied the CBI team to the spot but he has also not fully supported the
case of prosecution. 21 PW17 V.B. Ramteke is from CFSL and has proved the report
regarding hand wash and pants pocket wash. PW18 Deepak Kumar Tanwar
is also from CFSL and he has proved his report regarding voice sample. 22 PW19 Insp. Arun Rawat is initial IO and PW20 DSP A.B.
Chaudhary is second IO. 23 Both the accused, in their statements recorded under Section
313 Cr.P.C., pleaded innocence and claimed that they never demanded any
bribe from complainant and they had been falsely implicated. However, they
did not wish to lead evidence in defence. CONTENTIONS ON BEHALF OF ACCUSED RAFAT JAMAL

24 Sh. JR Piryani, learned defence counsel for accused Rafat
Jamal has assailed the case of prosecution. He has drawn my attention
towards various portions of the testimony of complainant as well as of
independent witness Suresh Chand and has also taken me through the
transcript of the conversation in question and on the strength of the same it
has been argued that prosecution has not been able to prove its case in any
manner whatsoever against accused Rafat Jamal. 25 It has been argued by Sh. Piryani that that day accused Rafat
Jamal was, in fact, busy in a meeting and when he came out from such
meeting, one person wished him whom he did not recognize at all and during
the conversation it was learnt that said person was Ashok Yadav. Sh.
Piryani also admits that there was some conversation between the CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 7 of 38 complainant and Ashok Yadav that day but all of a sudden, after such
conversation, complainant Ashok Yadav tried to hand over one envelope to
accused Rafat Jamal but accused Rafat Jamal immediately resisted and
pushed that envelope and did not accept the envelope at all. His contentions
can be summarized as under: CONTENTIONS OF ACCUSED PRADEEP VERMA

26 Sh. P.N. Verma has assailed the prosecution case on the
following grounds: (i) Complainant Ashok Kumar Yadav has turned
 hostile and has not supported the case of prosecution. (ii) Even otherwise, his statement is merely to be
 treated as that of accomplice and, therefore, it is always
 suspicious and there is no corroboration to his testimony
 as the shadow witness has already expired and other
 independent witness has not supported the case of
 prosecution. (iii) Tape recording conversations are secondary
 evidence and prosecution has failed to rule out the
 possibility of tampering with the same and, therefore,
 these are not admissible in evidence. voice sample of accused even with the permission of the
 Court and moreover, Court, before granting permission,
 did not afford any opportunity to accused and allowed the
 application without hearing accused/defence. (vi) There is nothing on record which may show that
 there was any demand from the side of accused Pradeep
 Verma or for that matter acceptance. Rather to the
 contrary, complainant has very categorically deposed that
 there was never any demand or acceptance. (vii) There is no conversation which may show that
 there was any demand of Rs. 3500/-. (viii) Even first conversation reveals that it was
 complainant who was instigating accused Pradeep Verma CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 10 of 38 and accused Pradeep Verma had never made any
 demand of money. (ix) Nothing incriminating was recovered from the
 house search of accused Pradeep Verma. (x) Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act is not
 applicable as even otherwise there was no reason or
 motive for accused Pradeep Verma, who being JE, had no
 power to give any contract. Payment regarding first two
 contracts had already been released to the complainant
 and if there was any ulterior motive on the part of
 accused, he would have ensured that even such payment
 had been released after the payment of commission and
 not before. (xi) As far as third work is concerned, it was awarded
 much later i.e. on 13.03.2006 and, therefore, complaint
 with respect to such contract was apparently premature
 and moreover accused Pradeep Verma had no role
 whatsoever to play with respect to grant of third work. (xii) CDs are tampered and, therefore, conversation is
 liable to be discarded. (xiii) There is no previous record of accused Pradeep
 Verma and he has been falsely implicated. (xiv) Call details were not collected from the concerned
 service provider. (xv) Accused has no concern with respect to
 preparation of bills etc. which are dealt with and prepared
 by Account Branch. CONTENTIONS OF CBI

27 Sh. Jagbir Singh, learned Public Prosecutor for CBI has, on the
other hand, contended that prosecution has been able to prove its case to the
hilt. He has argued that though complainant has turned hostile yet his
testimony cannot be discarded or effaced out completely. It has also been
argued that he has, to a very large extent, supported the case of prosecution
and has also admitted the conversation when the same was played when he
entered into witness box. He has also argued that there is no material on
record which may show that there was any tampering with the CDs or that
there was any chance of fudging the CDs. It has also been argued that there
was no illegality or impediment in calling independent witnesses even from far
off locality. It has also been argued that testimony of CBI officials clearly
indicates involvement of both the accused and even from the partially
supporting testimony of complainant, it stands established that accused
Pradeep Verma had demanded money for self as well as for accused Rafat
Jamal. He has also contended that envelope had been recovered from the
pocket of Rafat Jamal which establishes acceptance. 28 He has also argued that as far as Section 7 of Prevention of
Corruption Act is concerned, mere demand is sufficient. He has also argued
that Court was empowered to grant permission to take voice sample and such
tape recorded conversation is admissible in evidence and also clinches the
issue in favour of prosecution. EVALUATION OF EVIDENCE

29 It would be, however, pertinent to mention that accused
Rafat Jamal does not dispute that he had met complainant that day. It
will not be out of place of extract Q. 25 as put to him in statement CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 12 of 38 recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. Such question reads as under: Q. Further that when complainant took out the
 envelope and starting giving the same to you
 accused Rafat Jamal, you accused Rafat Jamal
 pushed the envelope with your both hands and you
 did not want and then such envelope fell down from
 the hands of complainant and then CBI personnel
 rushed to the spot near the lift. What do you have to
 say? 30 Rafat Jamal admitted aforesaid fact. 31 I have already noticed above that complainant has not
supported the case of prosecution and to add insult to the injury, one
more accompanying pubic witness i.e. PW15 Suresh Chand has also
turned hostile. As already notice above, shadow witness Sh. Narender
Kumar Sharma died before his deposition could be recorded. 32 Let me now straightaway come to the testimony of
complainant PW4 Ashok Yadav. 33 There does not seem to be any dispute that he was running
firm under the name & style of M/s A.K. Electronics and had been given
the said three work contracts in IIT. It is also not in dispute that both the
accused were posted in IIT. In his examination-in-chief which was
recorded in the Court on 23.04.2009. PW4 Ashok Yadav claimed that
Mr. Jamal had office in IIT but he never met him. He also claimed that
he did not have to go to the office of Mr. Jamal when Mr. Jamal was
there. He has then straightaway jumped to date of incident and deposed
that on 22.03.2006, he had given a document to CBI and then SP,CBI CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 13 of 38 asked him(complainant) to bring some person of his own and then he
went back to home and brought his son and then CBI made his such son
write something and then that person (witness is indicating towards SP,
CBI) asked him to sign such document written by his son. Such
complaint has been proved as Ex. PW4/A but fact remains that according
to complainant, such contents were got dictated by CBI. So much so, he
also claimed that these contents were never read out to him by anyone. 34 PW4 Ashok Yadav further claimed that SP, CBI then asked
him to talk to Pradeep Verma on his mobile and when he talked to
Pradeep on mobile, Pradeep Verma asked him to bring money. His
further deposition claimed that demand was for 10 per cent. He further
deposed that accused Rafat Jamal had never asked for money earlier
but as far as Pradeep Verma is concerned, he had asked money even
earlier also. He also deposed that Pradeep Verma asked him to bring
money in envelope. He also deposed that conversation between him
and Pradeep Verma which had taken place in the CBI office was
recorded. It would now be pertinent to extract such conversation: Complainant: Hain, Verma Ji Kahan hain, Verma Ji, baith te hain sir.
Pradeep Verma Haan-haan, Aa Jao, koi nahi hai. Kaun Hai.
Complainant Makan malik hai, ghar chhodne aaya tha, makan mein
 rahate hain, kiraye par rahate hain. Apna sarkari makan
 mila hua hai. Pradeep Verma Pahale to Kotla main rahate the. Complainant Kotla to teen saal ho gaye, aapko pata nahi. Rawat Ji ka makan usse thoda aage jakar, DDA flats ke
 andar. Wahin paise-waise dene the. Pradeep Verma ............................... Ek minute.
Complainant .............................. Pradeep Verma Tu hi chala ja Sahab ke paas, mera jana thik nahi hai.
Complainant Aap do minute ke liye chale, bole sahab Ashok aaya hai,
 maan li hai, galati ho gayi. Pradeep Verma Bol dunga main, bol dunga main, main bol dunga. Bol
 dunga main, apne- aap jakar mil lo, thik nahi lagta hai,
 thik hai. Complainant Jana hota to main akelay hi chala jata pahale.
Pradeep Verma Arey tum pahale gae nahi ho kaya. Complainant Pahale ab thoda sa wo ho gaya na isliye to.
Pradeep Verma Kuchch nahi hota, sab chalata hai aapas mein.
Complainant Ek baar phone se poochch lo sahab se. Pradeep Verma Mera jana thik nahi hai, tu apne-aap chala ja. baar thode hi ho raha hai yah. Pahali baar thode ho raha
 hai. Achcha nahi lagta. Thik hai na. Thik hai. Chalen. office of accused Rafat Jamal and then Ashok with shadow witness went
to the office of Rafat Jamal. CBI officials took position downstairs near lift
on the ground floor whereas office of Rafat Jamal was at the first floor.
Accused Rafat Jamal was not there in the office and was in a meeting
and he came downstairs later on. It will be important to mention that
Personal Assistant of Rafat Jamal had seen one envelope in the upper
pocket of shirt of complainant and asked him about the same to which
complainant replied that he had nothing to give. According to PW4 CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 17 of 38 Ashok Yadav, after a long time, accused Rafat Jamal was found passing
near the lift and he said Namaste to Rafat Jamal to which Rafat Jamal
replied that he had not recognized him and then PW4 Ashok Yadav told
him that he had done the work of fans etc. and started to take out the
envelope to give that to him and when he was giving the envelope to
accused Rafat Jamal, Rafat with his both hands pushed the envelope
saying that he did not want that. Thereafter, somebody was coming
down from upstairs and then envelope fell down from the hands of
PW4 Ashok Yadav. CBI officials came at the spot from all sides and
someone pushed him and thereafter he did not know where that
envelope had gone. According to him, thereafter CBI officials asked him
to accompany them as well as both the accused to CBI office and then
he was asked to leave at 10.00 PM and thereafter he was called three
days thereafter and was made to sign on 8-10 papers. This is what he
has to say in his examination-in-chief. 38 One thing is very much perceptible from his testimony. He
has not said anything against accused Rafat Jamal. In his examination-
in-chief, he has very categorically claimed that he had not even met
Rafat Jamal and Rafat Jamal had not demanded any money from him
even earlier. Despite exhaustive grilling by prosecution, Ashok Yadav did
not utter even a single word incriminating or indicting Rafat Jamal. Ashok
Yadav was cross-examined by defence and even in such cross-
examination, he claimed that he had not met Rafat Jamal on any earlier
occasion. He also claimed that when he had gone to the office of
Pradeep Verma, Pradeep Verma refused to accompany him to the office
of Rafat Jamal. He also claimed that he had not told anyone in the office
of Rafat Jamal that he had been sent by accused Pradeep Verma to give CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 18 of 38 money to accused Rafat Jamal. In his further cross-examination, he has
also deposed that no one had asked him to bring Rs. 3500/- in an
envelope. Sh. J.R. Priani has also cross-examined the complainant and
in his cross-examination dated 10.12.2009, Ashok Yadav categorically
claimed that it was correct that none of the official of IIT including
accused Rafat Jamal had ever asked for any bribe from him. 39 It will be important to mention that complainant was carrying
eavesdropping instrument as well as digital recorder with him and as per
prosecution following conversation had taken place between Ashok
Yadav and accused Rafat Jamal. Such version is as under: was not part of the spot conversation and was rather recorded next day
in the CBI office. Such fact, by itself, makes the entire allegedly recorded
spot conversation between complainant & Rafat Jamal shady and shaky. 43 I have seen the testimony of PW15 Suresh Chand as well.
He is the one who had also gone with the CBI team. He has also not
supported the case of prosecution and deposed that when they had
reached IIT, officer was not available there and sometime thereafter CBI
officials had caught some person by both his hands. According to him,
that person claimed that money was lying in his pocket and Mr. Narender
Sharma (independent witness) took out the money from such pocket of
that person and then hand-wash etc. were taken. This witness was
declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross-examined in detail by
the prosecution. Despite that, as regards Rafat Jamal, this witness did
not support the case of prosecution at all and claimed that it was
incorrect to suggest that Rafat Jamal was challenged for having
accepted the bribe and he pushed the team members and tried to run
away. It is also important to mention that as far as alleged recovery of CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 22 of 38 bribe money from the pocket of Rafat Jamal is concerned, as per the
case of prosecution, such amount had been allegedly recovered from
such pocket by PW15 Suresh Chand but Suresh Chand has denied this
fact and has rather claimed that such money was taken out from such
pocket by shadow witness Narender Sharma. As per PW14 Capt. B.N.
Yadav, envelope containing bribe money was taken out from the pocket
of accused Rafat Jamal by one CBI official whereas if complainant is to
be believed, it never reached anyone's pocket and rather it had fallen
down. 44 Undoubtedly, as per officials i.e. PW19 Insp. Arun Rawat and
PW20 DSP A.B. Chaudhary, envelope had been recovered from the
pocket of accused Rafat Jamal but fact remains that entire case is
shrouded with mystery with respect to most important aspect of the case
i.e. whether there was any demand from the side of Rafat Jamal either
for self or in terms of any conspiracy and whether he had accepted any
bribe money. PW4 Ashok Yadav has categorically deposed that Rafat
Jamal had never accepted any money and rather when he attempted to
give him the envelope, such envelope was pushed by Rafat Jamal which
fell down. Testimony of Suresh Chand also does not take us anywhere.
Though there is no impediment in believing the version of official
witnesses yet fact remains that court cannot shut its eyes completely to
the testimony of public witnesses. As a rule, corroboration from neutral
corner is considered to be of prime importance. It's not a case where
there was no public witness. It's a case where rather public witnesses are
not supporting prosecution. Testimony of one set of witnesses cannot be
given undue preference over the other set. Testimony of official witnesses
has to be read in harmony with the testimony of public witnesses. Moreover, when complainant himself alleges that one particular line
forming part of the played conversation was added subsequently, such
conversation in toto has to be considered distrustful and discarded.
Complainant himself admitted that he had never met Rafat Jamal and
this fact rather stands substantiated as according to complainant, when
he met Rafat Jamal on the date of incident, Rafat Jamal did not
recognize him and rather asked him as to who he was. 45 PW14 Capt. B.N. Yadav is Security Officer of IIT, New Delhi
and he was called immediately after money was allegedly accepted by
Rafat Jamal and hand-wash proceedings were conducted in his
presence but in his cross-examination, he has deposed that he had
signed recovery memo Ex. PW4/B after the date of incident. There is one
very interesting point which has come across in this regard and has
escaped notice of everybody. Recovery Memo Ex PW 4/B contains
signatures of many persons as witnesses. Photocopy of such Memo was
given to defence after summoning and copy thereof was shown to PW 19
Arun Rawat in his cross and has been proved as Ex PW 19/DB. His
confrontation was limited to the point that signatures of Arun Rawat were
not there on such Memo which otherwise should have been there if it
was correct photocopy of original. He admitted such fact. I can imagine
that prosecution can always allege that such photocopy might have been
tempered further by accused at his end in order to take some undue
advantage. But, things do not stop here. I have seen all the signatures of
all the persons appearing on such memo Ex PW 19/DB and I have no
hesitation in holding that it seems very much possible that CBI mightt
have prepared more than one original Memos. Ex PW19/DB is not copy
of original lying on record as is apparent to naked eyes by evaluating the CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 24 of 38 distance and positioning of signatures inter se. This means that one more
original Memo had been prepared. Nobody knows why? Nobody knows
where is such another original Memo? It is also important to mention
here that complainant himself has deposed that he had signed on several
papers subsequently when he was called in CBI office. So Recovery
Memo becomes a document whose authenticity in having been prepared
at the spot is under needle of suspicion. 46 Now let me see whether prosecution has been able to prove
its case against accused Pradeep Verma or not. 47 At the very outset, Sh. Verma has taken an objection that
report of FSL with respect to voice sample cannot be looked into as it
was not appropriate and legal for CBI to have obtained voice sample
during investigation without seeking consent of the accused. 48 It has also been claimed that even the Court did not have
any power to grant any permission for taking any specimen voice
sample. 49 In the case of RAKESH BISHT V. CENTRAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION 2007 CRI.L.J. 1530 DELHI, it has been held that
accused cannot be compelled to give his voice sample during
investigation and if matter is before court then court can direct to give
voice sample only for identity purpose and not for the purpose of any
inculpatory statement. It has been observed as under:- 50 Here, accused was not even formally asked whether he was
ready to give voice sample. No notice of application was issued to him. It
is also not amply clear whether accused had given voice sample
voluntarily or not. 51 As already noticed above, there is no evidence before the
Court which may even remotely suggest that bribe money was ever
accepted by any of the accused. Learned Prosecutor has drawn my
attention towards first conversation which the complainant had with
accused Pradeep Verma which was recorded in CBI office and on the
strength of same, it has been argued that such conversation clearly
reveals that there was demand by accused Pradeep Verma. He has
argued that even if it is assumed for a moment that CBI was not
empowered to take specimen voice sample during investigation or that
accused had been compelled in this regard, complainant himself has
made a specific deposition before the Court regarding demand and when
such conversation was played before him, he identified his voice as well
as voice of accused Pradeep Verma. He has thus argued that even if
FSL report is excluded from the scope of discussion, deposition of
complainant clearly indicates that there was demand by accused
Pradeep Verma and the recorded conversation was immediately sealed
and, therefore, such piece of conversation clinches the issue in favour of
the prosecution. 52 Tape recorded conversation is admissible provided that the
conversation is relevant to the matters in issue, that there is identification
of the voice and that the accuracy of the conversation is proved by
eliminating the possibility of any tempering. A contemporaneous tape
record of a relevant conversation is a relevant fact and is admissible
under S. 8 . It is res gestae. The conversation is therefore a relevant fact
and is admissible under S. 7 . Like any document, the tape record itself is
primary and direct evidence admissible of what has been said and picked
up by the receiver. In S. PRATAP SINGH V. STATE OF PUNJAB , AIR
1964 SC 72, Apex Court considered the issue and clearly propounded
that tape recorded talks are admissible in evidence. 53 As regards the identification of such recorded voice, proper
identification of such voice is a sine qua non for the use of such tape
recording, therefore, the time and place and accuracy of the recording
must be proved by a competent witness and the voices must be properly
identified. It is also required to be established that such conversation was
appropriately recorded and secured and sealed immediately leaving no
chance of tempering. It is known fact that tape recorded conversation can
be erased with ease by subsequent recording and insertion could be
superimposed. Voice of the speaker must be duly identified by the maker
of the record or by others who recognize his voice. Every possibility of
tempering with or erasure of a part of a tape recorded statement must be
ruled out otherwise it may render the said statement out of context and,
therefore, inadmissible. Ultimately, if in a particular case, there is a well
grounded suspicion not even say proof, that the tape recording has been
tampered with that would be a good ground for the court to discount
wholly its evidentiary value. 54 Therefore, now it is to be seen whether such recorded
conversation was properly recorded, kept, preserved and sealed. In other
words, it is to be seen whether prosecution has been able to prove that
there was no chance of tampering with the same. 55 When such conversation had taken place in the CBI office,
as per PW19 Insp. Arun Rawat, it was recorded by Sh. Tanmay Behra,
DSP in another room in the presence of Sh. Narender Kumar Sharma
and Sh. P.V.K. Raja. Curiously enough, Sh. Tanmay Behra, under whose
supervision this entire exercise of recording of telephonic conversation
was carried out, has not graced the witness box. Shadow witness
Narender Kumar Sharma has already left for his heavenly abode. This
leaves us with the testimony of complainant himself and of Sh. P.V.K.
Raja. I have seen the testimony of PW5 P.V.K. Raja. He has deposed
that Sh. Tanmay Behra had asked complainant Ashok Yadav to make call
to Pradeep Verma on his mobile and whatever Ashok spoke was being
recorded in the voice recorder and such recorder was played to them and
then it was transferred on computer and then to CD and then such CD
was played to them in order to ensure that it contained only what they
had heard and then such CD was sealed and the document was
prepared at the time of sealing of CD. Such document has been proved
by him as Ex. PW5/A. Ex. PW5/A is Digital Recorder Observation
Memorandum-II and as per such memorandum also, contents of digital
recorder were downloaded into the computer and then same were burnt
to a compact disc. Thereafter such CD was sealed in the presence of
witnesses. Impression of seal used has also been put on such
memorandum. However, it is not clear as to who kept such seal after
use. The person who is holding seal should never simultaneously CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 28 of 38 possess sealed case property. If such person is allowed to retain the seal
as well as sealed property then such person can always tamper with the
case property. Prosecution has failed to throw necessary light on this
crucial aspect. 56 As already noticed above, Sh. Tanmay Behra has not
entered into witness box. He was the one who had burnt CDs. PW5
P.V.K. Raja has nowhere deposed as to who kept the seal after use. In
his cross-examination, he has deposed that Sh. Tanmay Behra himself
had sealed the CD but he, unfortunately, does not remember whether
such seal was kept by Sh. Tanmay Behra after use or whether it was
given to anyone else. Surprisingly, in his cross-examination dated
15.04.2010. PW5 Raja also claimed that cassettes were played two-
three days after the incident also and he does not remember whether
these cassettes were already sealed when they were played.
Prosecution did not seek requisite clarity from the witness with respect to
aforesaid fact. 57 Thus, sanctity of sealing seems completely lost. 58 Even PW19 Insp. Arun Rawat has not been able to throw
desired light on this issue. Rightly so, because if prosecution case is to
believed, such recording exercise was being done in another room under
the supervision of Sh. Tanmay Behra. IO himself was in another room
and was not with Sh. Tanmay Behra at that time. As far as complainant
Ashok Yadav himself is concerned, he pleaded his ignorance about such
CDs. In his cross-examination dated 10.12.2009, he has categorically
deposed that CDs were not prepared in his presence and CDs, which CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 29 of 38 had been played in the Court during trial, were heard by him for the first
time in the Court and these were never played or run by CBI officials
earlier. He claimed such fact even in his examination-in-chief dated
23.04.2009. 59 It is interesting to note that as far as eavesdropping
instrument is concerned, even as per admitted case of prosecution, it
developed some snag and stopped working. PW5 P.V.K. Raja, who was
present in the CBI office throughout and who was to hear the
conversation once eavesdropping instrument was made active, deposed
that they had heard voice on such instrument for some time then it
stopped. Such conversation was up to the moment when complainant
was going to meet accused Pradeep Verma and then again
eavesdropping instrument had been connected and dialled and then it
started operating and there was conversation for 10/15/20 minutes.
However, such fact is not in consonance with CBI case. According to
CBI, there was never second activation and once, it went out of order, it
could not be made active. But PW5 P.V.K. Raja has something else to
say. 60 P.V.K.Raja admitted in his cross-examination that mini-
cassette of eavesdropping instruments stopped working after some time.
PW20 DSP A.B. Chaudhary, who is final IO of the case, has also
admitted in his deposition that it was correct that according to
investigation, eavesdropping instrument went out of order after some
time and no expert opinion was obtained to ascertain as to what defect
had developed or whether there was no fault at all. It has been
suggested to concerned witness that there was never any snag in the CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 30 of 38 eavesdropping instrument and such conversation has been deliberately
held back by the prosecution as it was not supporting the prosecution
version. 61 It will be important to mention that alleged conversation
between accused Rafat Jamal and Ashok was very vital in order to
confirm the acceptance. In such conversation, in the end, some voices
are inaudible and who knows, prosecution wants to indicate that at that
moment itself there was some technical snag in the instrument and,
therefore, it stopped working. But defence wants to stress that there was
deliberate tempering and further conversation was erased in order to give
boost to the case of CBI as there was never ever any acceptance. 62 PW12 Ghan Shyam is also important witness. He was
posted in Centaur Hotel and he was also called in CBI office as an
independent witness and he was explained about trap proceedings and
eavesdropping phone was handed over to complainant in his presence
and he was also told how such instrument could be activated. When
eavesdropping instrument was activated, conversation between
complainant and the other persons on the other end were audible to
them in CBI office and simultaneously such conversation was also
recorded. Eavesdropping Recorder Observation Memorandum has been
proved as Ex. PW5/B which is also signed by Sh. Ghan Shyam.
However, to the utter dismay of prosecution, PW12 Ghan Shyam has not
supported the case of prosecution. In his examination-in-chief, he simply
claimed that he was called by CBI and there he met Insp. Vipin Kumar
and at about 3.00 PM he was called in the office of Inspector and
thereafter they all had gone to the house of one engineer who was not in CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 31 of 38 his house. CBI officials knocked at the door of the house upon which
wife of engineer had opened the door and then such house was
searched. He also deposed that in the evening he came to know that
said engineer was Rafat Jamal. Since this witness was found resiling
from his previous statement, he was cross-examined by the prosecution
with the permission of the Court and even during such cross-examination
conducted by prosecution, witness failed to support the prosecution case
fully. Rather according to him, complainant had left CBI office before he
himself i.e. PW12 Ghan Shyam had reached CBI office. So much so, he
volunteered that when he reached CBI office, recording was already
going on. 63 PW15 Suresh Chand is also an important witness. He was
also posted in Centaur Hotel. In his examination-in-chief, he merely
claimed that when he along his colleagues reached CBI office on
22.03.2006, they were explained that they were to go to IIT office and
CBI officials told them that somebody had demanded money and they
were to go to trap him. He further deposed that when they had gone
there, that officer was not available there and sometime after, CBI
officials and they had caught some person by both his hands and they
enquired from the said person about the money he had received and
then such person told that money was lying in his pocket and then
independent witness Narender Sharma took out the money from his
pocket and numbers of notes were tallied. He has then deposed
regarding taking of hand-wash and he also identified accused Rafat
Jamal as the person who had been caught that day. Since, witness was
also found resiling from his previous statement, he was also duly cross-
examined by the prosecution and then wisdom dawned upon him from CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 32 of 38 somewhere and he, merely and merrily, kept on answering all the
questions in affirmative as put to him by learned Prosecutor. Fact
remains that in his initial deposition, he failed to mention any fact related
to complainant or pre-trap proceedings or recording of conversation
between complainant and accused Pradeep Verma and, therefore, his
testimony does not inspire much confidence. 64 Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act reads as under: 65 Basic difference between Section 7 & 13 (1) (d) of PC Act is
that whereas Section 7 bars demand, Section 13 (1) (d) bars acceptance.
In order to prove Section 7 , acceptance may be with or without demand
but as far as Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act is concerned, such acceptance
has to be preceded by demand. 66 Offence under Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act would stand
completed when it is shown that illegal gratification has been accepted by
the accused. It has not been so established in the present case,
therefore, offence under section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act does not stand
proved. 67 However, as far as Section 7 of PC Act is concerned,
Legislature has used word 'agrees to accept' or 'attempts to obtain' as
well. Learned PP has contended that deposition of complainant at least
reflects that there was demand of money and, therefore, as far as Section 7 of PC Act is concerned, even if there is no acceptance,
accused are liable to be held guilty as they had agreed to accept the
bribe. He has placed his reliance upon MUBARAKALI VS. STATE 1958
CR.L.J. 764 MP.. 68 In the backdrop of said contention, I have once again
carefully scrutinized the testimony of complainant and of the view that
keeping in mind his hostile testimony, even it does not stand firmly
established that there was any attempt or agreement of such a nature so
as to invite applicability of Section of 7 of PC Act . 69 Firstly, complainant has not supported the case of
prosecution. He has disowned his report Ex. PW4/A. He has claimed
that he did not know as to what was written in such complaint and rather
CBI had got the same dictated of their own and he was not even shown
the same. Secondly, as per admitted case of prosecution, complainant
had already received payment with respect to first two work contracts
and balance payment was only Rs. 7500/-. However, when complainant CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 34 of 38 entered into witness box, in reply to the Court query, he came up with a
different answer and claimed that he had to receive Rs. 35000/- from IIT.
This is not in consonance with the case of prosecution as according to
the case of prosecution, complainant was to get the balance payment of
Rs. 7500/- only. 70 Thirdly, he does not know as to what was to be done with
digital recorder or eavesdropping instrument. Fourthly, according to him,
he never made any statement to CBI. Fifthly, if at all accused Pradeep
Verma was demanding any money then when Ashok Yadav met him in
his office, he would have, readily and gladly, accepted the envelope but
instead of accepting the same, he rather allegedly advised complainant
to go to the office of Rafat Jamal. This indicates that Pradeep was not
interested in any money. It is important because as per prosecution, he
was the one who had made the demand. It is not the case of prosecution
that complainant had ever talked to Rafat Jamal. There is no such
recorded conversation either. Even as per the complainant, he had
never earlier met Rafat Jamal and he also claimed that Rafat Jamal had
never demanded any money from him. According to complainant, he had
never seen accused persons together. He also deposed that he had
never claimed before CBI in his complaint or in statement that he was
paying any money to accused Pradeep Verma on earlier occasions.
Interestingly, as per case set up by the prosecution, money was being
demanded by both the accused and even as per alleged first
conversation, money had been demanded by accused Pradeep Verma
for self and for Rafat Jamal. However, in his cross-examination dated
10.12.2009, complainant has claimed that when Pradeep Verma refused
to accept the money and asked him to go to the office of Rafat Jamal, he CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 35 of 38 had asked Pradeep Verma as to why he was asking him to give money to
Rafat Jamal when Rafat Jamal had not asked him to pay. In his cross-
examination dated 10.12.2009, complainant reiterated that it was correct
that none of the officials of IIT had ever asked him for any bribe. Sixthly,
third work-contract was of Rs. 7500/- and was awarded in March, 2006.
As per allegations made in the complaint dated 22.03.2006, complainant
had been given such award in the month of March, 2006 only. Relevant
file related to third work contract has been duly proved by the prosecution
and as per admitted case of prosecution, third work pertaining to painting
of emergency panel was awarded to M/s A.K. Electronics. Such file i.e.
D-32 has been proved as Ex. PW2/5. A bare perusal of the same would
show that award had been given to M/s A.K. Electronics on 13.03.2006.
As per contents of complainant dated 22.03.2006, complainant has
claimed that he was being pressurized by both the accused for last 15-20
days to pay 10 per cent amount as bribe which means that such demand
was being made between 02.03.2006 and 07.03.2006. This is not
possible because third contract was awarded later on i.e. on 13.03.2006. 71 Moreover, as already notice above, P.V.K.Raja has deposed
that cassettes were played three four days after the incident and even
as per complainant, one line in conversation which he had with Rafat
Jamal was added subsequently in CBI office. Finally, it is also important
to note that complainant had made call to accused Pradeep from CBI
office on his mobile to mobile of said accused. No necessity was felt to
place on record call details of such mobiles at least in order to
substantiate that such call had, in fact, emanated at such alleged time. 72 Aforesaid fact coupled with the fact that nobody knows
who retained the seal after use, it would be unsafe to rely upon first
conversation as well as testimony of complainant to infer demand
simplicitor. Here, I would hasten to add that conversation on which
prosecution intends to rely upon rather hints out that demand had not
come from the accused in the first place. He was rather tempted and
instigated in this regard

73 Moreover, prosecution cannot change its stance midway or
at final lag. Its case was of demand as well as of acceptance. It was
never a case of mere agreement to obtain any pecuniary advantage. In BANARSI DASS VS. STATE OF HARYANA AIR 2010 SC 1589, it has
been observed that firstly, there must be a demand and secondly there
must be acceptance in the sense that the accused has obtained the
illegal gratification. It was also held that mere demand by itself was not
sufficient to establish the offence. 74 In view of my foregoing discussion, I am of the view that
deposition of complainant is not of such impeccable nature so as to
conclusively hold that accused had even agreed to accept the bribe.
Undoubtedly, testimony of Ashok Yadav reveals that conduct of accused
Pradeep Verma was not above board. Surprisingly, one suggestion put
to him by accused Pradeep Verma rather indicates that complainant was
earlier also paying accused Pradeep Verma. Fact, however, remains
that in any criminal matter, prosecution is duty bound to prove its case to
the hilt and beyond shadow of doubt. Prosecution is required to travel
the distance from 'may be true' to 'must be true' which in the present
case, the prosecution has failed to cover. No one can be convicted CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 37 of 38 merely on the basis of preponderance of probabilities. Conduct of
accused Pradeep Verma is ostensibly deplorable and can be labelled as
misconduct but misconduct has to be distinguished from criminal
misconduct. 75 I, therefore, grant benefit of doubt to both the accused and
acquit them of all the charges levelled against them. 76 Bonds are cancelled. Respective sureties are discharged. 77 Both the accused are simultaneously directed to submit
Bonds u/s 437A Cr.P.C. 78 File be consigned to Record Room. Ahlmad is directed to
page and book-mark the file as per the latest circular so as to
enable digitization of the entire record. 79 File be consigned to record Room. Announced in the open Court
on this 30th day of January, 2012. (MANOJ JAIN)
 Special Judge (PC Act) (CBI)
 South Distt: Saket Courts: New Delhi CC No. 40/2011 CBI Vs. Rafat Jamal etc. Page 38 of 38