Briefly stated the facts of the Prosecution case against the
accused Saleem is that on 10.06.2017, at about 8.00 pm, at Loni
Circle, Delhi within the jurisdiction of PS Jyoti Nagar, accused
committed theft of a mobile phone make VIVO from the
complainant Ms. Ruchi Chaudhary by using criminal force and
had committed offence u/s 356 / 379 IPC. Further the prosecution case against accused Abdul
Mabood S/o Nafis Ahmed Khan is that on 09.09.2017, at
unknown time at A 367, Gali no. 6, Rajeev Colony, Bhopura,
Ghaziabad, UP. accused was found in possession of one stolen
mobile phone make VIVO bearing IMEI No. 863599036151238
and 863599036151220 which was stolen on 10.06.2017 at about
8.00 pm from Loni Circle within the jurisdiction of PS Jyoti
Nagar which accused Abdul Mabood had received or retained
having knowledge or reasons to believe that the same was a
stolen property and had committed the offence u/s 411 IPC.
Hence, the present case was registered for the said offences. 2. Chargesheet in this matter was filed in the court on
12.07.2017 for the offences u/s 356 / 379 IPC against accused
Saleem whereupon Cognizance was taken in this matter. Later
on supplementary chargesheet was filed on 15.02.2018 qua
accused Abdul Mabood for the offence u.s 411 IPC whereupon
cognizance of the offence was taken in this matter. On 20.03.2019, court copy of chargesheet and relevant
documents attached with it were supplied to both accused
persons in compliance of section 207 Cr. P.C.

 Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL RAHUL
 Date: It is pertinent to mention here that on 03.12.2024,
Complainant Ms. Ruchi Chaudhary has made a statement before
the Court that she had compounded/settled the present matter
with accused Abdul Mabood for the offence u/s 411 IPC without
compensation and on the basis of the statement given by the
complainant on 03.12.2024, the accused Abdul Mabood stands
acquitted for offence u/s 411 IPC vide order dated 16.01.2025. Thereafter, matter was taken up for recording of
Prosecution evidence qua accused Saleem. PW1: Complainant/Ms. Ruchi Chaudhary: She deposed
that she was residing at House No. 112/11, Gali no. 7, Gulab
Vatika Loni,Ghaziabad, U.P alongwith her family. She did not
remember the exact date, month and year and time. In the
evening time, she received call at her mobile phone and she taken
out her mobile phone from her bag in the meanwhile, one person
came there and he snatched the said mobile phone of make VIVO
Y55L(Gold) from her hand. She did not depose anything else.
After sometime, she received call from police official regarding
recovery of her mobile phone and her brother Vikas Rathi got
released her mobile phone from he court on superdari vide
superdaginama. Police officials did not record her statement in
the present matter. She could not identify the accused whether he

FIR No. 482/2016 Digitally
 signed by
PS Jyoti Nagar RAHUL RAHUL SAINI
 Date: At this stage, Ld. APP for the State pointed out towards the
accused persons namely Saleem and Abdul Mabood who are
present in the court and after seeing the accused persons witness
denied to identify them. Witness failed to identify the accused
persons before the court. Witness was not cross examined despite opportunity given.
 PW2 ASI Rajpal:- He deposed that on 10.06.2017, he was
posted at PS Jyoti Nagar as ASI. On that day, he received DD
No. 61B regarding snatching which is Ex. PW2/A. Thereafter,
he along with Ct. Anil went to the spot i.e. Loni Gol Chakkar
where he met complainant Ruchi Chaudhary and some public
persons handed over the accused to him. He interrogated accused
who revealed his name as Saleem. Thereafter, he recorded
statement of complainant which is already Ex. PW1/A, bearing
his signature at point B. He prepared rukka on the basis of the
complaint which is Ex. PW2/B, bearing his signature at point A
and same was handed over to Ct. Anil for registration of the FIR
and accordingly, he went to PS and after registration of the FIR,
Ct. Anil came back at the spot and handed over copy of the FIR
and original rukka to him. Thereafter, he prepared site plan at the
instance of the complainant which is already Ex. PW1/B, bearing
his signature at point B. He arrested accused Saleem vide arrest
 Digitally
FIR No. 482/2016 signed by
PS Jyoti Nagar RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
State vs. Jaswant 5/ 14 Date: Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
 SAINI Date: Despite being cross-examined by Ld. APP for the State, not even
an iota of evidence could be culled out from his testimony.
Neither did he identify the accused nor was he able to give any
description of the accused. Further, there is no independent
public witness to the alleged recovery of the stolen property from
the possession of the accused. Thus, planting of case property
upon the accused cannot be ruled out. The main evidence produced by the IO is thus only the
disclosure statement. Thus, as such apart from the alleged
disclosure statement of the accused, there is no material evidence
against him which makes the Prosecution case weak beyond
repairs. 9. From the aforesaid testimony itself, the case of the
Prosecution was rendered full of doubts in regard to the
commission of the alleged incident by the accused. In view of
the above deposition, it is apparent that despite examining
relevant witness including the public witness, no evidence could
be brought by the Prosecution against the accused. 10. The other witness examined by the Prosecution i.e. PW2
ASI Rajpal could lend any support to the Prosecution case as he
was not the eye witnesses and only deposed regarding the
investigation conducted by him. In these circumstances, the
recording of testimony of the remaining witnesses i.e. the other
police witnesses as cited by the Prosecution and other formal

FIR No. 482/2016 Digitally signed

PS Jyoti Nagar RAHUL by RAHUL
 SAINI

 SAINI 2025.02.11
 Date: 11. Moving further, as already mentioned above, Complainant
has turned hostile on the identity of accused and nothing
incriminating against accused could come on record. Admittedly,
there are no independent eye-witnesses except complainant cited
by the Prosecution. Thus, her testimony could not help the
Prosecution case to establish the guilt of the accused. 12. Statement of accused Saleem was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C
r/w Section 281 Cr.P.C on 21.01.2025 to which he stated that he
is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case.
He does not wishes to lead any evidence in his defence. Hence. DE stands closed, and therefore, the matter was
taken up for hearing of final arguments, which were duly
addressed by Ld. Counsel for the accused as well as Ld. APP for
the State. With respect to the above stated trial proceedings in this
matter, reference may be made to a Division Bench judgment of
FIR No. 482/2016 Digitally
 signed by
PS Jyoti Nagar RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI State vs. Jaswant 10/ 14 SAINI Date: Thus, keeping in view the above said guidelines this court
proceeded to expedite the matter pending for more than last 7
years. Summary of arguments 13. Ld. APP for the State has vehemently argued that the
accused be convicted for the offences with which he has been
charged as the said offences are heinous in nature and leaving the
accused free without any penalty being imposed upon him would
rather make him commit similar offences again. Further, it was
argued by Ld. APP that it is no more res integra that even in case
of hostile witnesses conviction of the accused can be secured on
the basis of circumstantial evidence. Ld. APP for the State prayed
that accused deserve to be held guilty. 14. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for accused has strongly
opposed the contentions of Ld. APP for the State stating that
Prosecution has been unable to bring even an iota of valid
evidence against the accused which points out towards his guilt. It is further argued by the Ld. Counsel for the accused that
merely because the complainant initiated the criminal
proceedings in this matter, accused cannot be held liable for it as
the complainant has herself failed to identify the accused. Thus,
Ld. Counsel for the accused has strongly pressed upon setting the
accused at liberty by acquitting him. 15. Accordingly, this court has heard the rival submissions
advanced by the Ld. APP for State and the Ld. Counsel for the
accused and has also perused the entire record carefully. Brief reasons for the decision 16. At the outset, before proceeding further on to discussing
the weight and relevancy of evidence led by the Prosecution, this
court deems it appropriate to first highlight the cardinal principles
of Criminal Jurisprudence, i.e. one, that the accused is presumed
to be innocent unless proved guilty and two, that the burden upon
the Prosecution lies to the extent of proving the guilt of the
accused beyond all reasonable doubts. Thus, it is incumbent
upon the Prosecution to prove all the ingredients which constitute
the offence so that all reasonable doubts in the case of the
Prosecution are removed. It may be noted that strongest of
suspicion upon the accused, does not lead to the guilt of the
accused. Thus, keeping in view the above stated aspects and
principles of criminal jurisprudence this court shall proceed to
decide upon the innocence or guilt of the accused. 17. Coming to the facts of the case, Prosecution has cited 06
witnesses in the list of witnesses annexed with the chargesheet.
Out of these witnesses, only one is prime public witness and rest
of the witnesses cited by the Prosecution are formal witnesses,
who might have played some part in the investigation but were
not first hand witnesses to the alleged incident. Certainly, the
guilt of the accused could not have been proved by the
Prosecution from the mere testimony of said formal witnesses
inasmuch as, the alleged incident was never committed in their
presence. Complainant has specifically stated in her deposition that
she could not identified the accused. Moreover, there is no other
eye-witness to the incident of snatching of the mobile by the
accused Saleem. 18. Even other circumstances and documents available on
record pointed out towards lack of sufficient incriminating
evidence against the accused. The hostility in the testimony of the
Complainant in the witness box coupled with the lack of other
sufficient material on record makes the Prosecution case weak
beyond repairs, especially because there are no other independent
eye witnesses to the case. Also, no CCTV footage or any other
independent evidence has been collected from the spot which can
link the accused with the alleged offence. Conviction of the
accused cannot be secured with a mere disclosure statement
unless vital evidence establishing guilt of the accused is brought
in the court. 19. It is already settled in law that the burden upon the
Prosecution is to bring home the guilt of the accused on the basis
 Digitally
 signed by
FIR No. 482/2016 RAHUL
 RAHUL
 SAINI
PS Jyoti Nagar
 SAINI Date: 20. Therefore, keeping in view the overall facts and
circumstances of this case, this court is of the considered view
that Prosecution has failed to discharge the burden imposed upon
it by law of proving the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable
doubts. In these circumstances, this court has no hesitation in
holding that accused Saleem S/o Ali Mohammad is not found
guilty for the offences U/s 356/379 IPC . Accordingly, the
accused Saleem S/o Ali Mohammad stands acquitted in the
present case. Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
 SAINI Date: