- 1. The applicant seeks regular bail in connection with Crime
 No.331/2023 registered with Kopargaon Police Station, Dist.
 Ahmednagar for the offences punishable under Sections 376, 363,
 354, 328, 295, 295-A, 298, 504, 506 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal
 Code . 2. The applicant has been arrested on 12.07.2023 in pursuance
 of the registration of the aforesaid crime. The victim aged about
 20 years filed FIR alleging that she was in contact with the
 applicant through social media networking. She was trapped in
 love affair by the applicant. He visited her place on 21.05.2023
 alongwith his friends and insisted her to accompany them to
 Madarsa at village Khadki. The applicant/accused had forcible
 sexual intercourse with her, snapped photographs and
 videographed her in his company and then took her to some
 (2) BA-2367-2023.odt

Maulana and made her to chant religious prayer for conversion to
Islam. Consequently, the aforesaid crime was registered. 3. Mr. Ghanekar, learned Advocate appearing for the applicant
submits that the applicant is behind the bar for almost one year.
The victim is a major girl aged about 20 years and well-versed
with the operation of social media and worldly affairs. He would
submit that the exaggerated allegations are made to bring home
guilt against the applicant. Since it is a case of interfaith
marriage followed by love affair of young couple exaration is made.
Mr. Ghanekar would submit that after registration of the offence,
applicant was immediately arrested. His mobile phone was seized
and sent to Forensic Laboratory. However, no objectionable
material is found. The victim voluntarily accompanied the
applicant, performed marriage and made afterthought allegations.
By inviting attention of this Court to the call details between the
victim and the applicant, particularly on the date of incident, he
would submit that the victim continuously called applicant, which
is inconsistent with the story of the prosecution. Mr. Ghanekar
would submit that co-accused persons are already enlarged on
bail. The applicant is ready to abide any condition as imposed by
this Court. The trial is likely to take its own course and indefinite
incarceration of the applicant need not be continued, particularly
when there are no criminal antecedents to discredit the applicant. 4. Mr. Jaware, learned APP, however, strongly opposes the
prayer for bail. He would submit that the applicant is resident of
Madhya Pradesh. Systematically the victim was trapped using
social media tools and emotionally blackmailed and then she was
forced to convert into Islam and dragged to the so called marriage.
On the basis of the photographs and videos, she was blackmailed
and subjected to forcible sexual intercourse. The offences are
 (3) BA-2367-2023.odt

serious in nature. The release of the applicant may hamper the
smooth trial. 5. Having considered submissions advanced, it appears that
there are allegations of emotional blackmail and forcible sexual
intercourse by the applicant against victim. However, the fact
remains that the victim was aged about 20 years i.e. a major girl
with sufficient education and understanding. Perusal of the
contents of the FIR depicts that there was long standing
relationship between the victim and the applicant and they were
in contact with each other. The document shows that the victim
had been to the place of the applicant at Indore and attended
engagement function of common friend. The Call Detail Record
between the applicant and the victim on the date of alleged
incident shows that victim was aggressor and she called the
applicant on most of the occasions. The main allegation in the FIR
is that the victim was blackmailed using photographs and video
while she was taken to the Maulana or forced to chant religious
prayer. The investigation papers nowhere depicts that any such
material alleged to have been used by applicant is recovered
during the course of investigation. The mobile phone seized from
the applicant was sent for forensic examination. The report of
such examination also silent on crucial allegations. 6. Taking into account the overall material on record, case of
the prosecution do not inspire confidence. The applicant appears
to be the person aged about 19 years, whereas victim is aged about
20 years. There are no criminal antecedents to discredit the
applicant. The applicant is behind the bar for almost one year.
The trial is likely to take its own course. In that view of the
matter, further detention of the applicant is not necessary. Hence,
case is made out for grant of bail. Hence, the following order: on bail in Crime No.331/2023 registered with Kopargaon Police
Station, Dist. Ahmednagar for the offences punishable under Sections 376 , 363 , 354 , 328 , 295 , 295-A , 298 , 504 , 506 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code on furnishing P.B. and S.B. of Rs.50,000/-
(Rs.Fifty Thousand only) with one local surety for the same
amount on following condition: