1. List revised. 2. Sri Manoj Kumar Srivastava, learned counsel for the first informant appears and states that he has filed Vakalatnama on 15.09.2023 in the office which is not on record. 3. Office to trace out the same and place it on record and make a note in the order sheet about it. 4. Heard Sri Atul Kumar Singh, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Ram Prakash Shukla, learned counsel for the State and perused the material on record. 5. This bail application under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the applicant-Nihal Chaudhary @ Rihan @ Furkan, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No. 304 of 2023, under sections 376D , 377 , 328 , 506 , 420 , 406 , 384 I.P.C. and Section 67 Information Technology Act 2000, Police Station Sasni Gate, District Aligarh. 6. The FIR of the present case was lodged on 07.06.2023 by the victim herself against the applicant and co-accused Wajeer Khan alleging therein that she came in contact with the applicant through facebook wherein he disclosed his name as Nihal Chaudhary and in the photograph shown himself to be a Hindu but as a matter of fact his real name is Rihan @ Furkan. Since her husband had died she was in need of employment and the applicant assured her of getting her employment. On 15.11.2022, at about 11 A.M., he called her to his office where on going she found the applicant and his friend Wajeer Khan present. They gave her cold drink which was mixed with some intoxicating substance and after consuming it she became unconscious after which the applicant and co-accused Wajeer Khan committed rape upon her and made her video. On showing her video, they used to blackmail her and commit rape upon her by calling her on various places. They also did unnatural sex. On 31.05.2023, she was called to a hotel but she did not go there as she was unwell after which she was pressurized by the accused persons and they met on a highway where on showing the Aadhar Card she came to know that he is of a different caste and has different name. 7. Learned counsel for the applicant has argued that the victim is a major widow lady having three children. The allegations insofar as act of rape are concerned are false and concocted. It is argued that no such objectionable video has been recovered by the investigation officer during investigation. The charge sheet in the matter has been submitted against the applicant and the co-accused on which the court concerned has taken cognizance on 22.07.2023. It is argued that there was some discussion between the applicant and the victim with regard to getting her employment but the same could not materialize and then just to blackmail the applicant the present F.I.R. has been lodged. It is further argued that the co-accused Wajeer Khan has been granted bail by a coordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 24.08.2023 passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 37383 of 2023 (Wajeer Khan Versus State of U.P.), the copy of which is annexed as Annexure No. 8 to the affidavit in support of the bail application. It is argued that the applicant is not having any criminal history as stated in para 21 of the affidavit. The applicant is in jail since 08.06.2023. 8. Per contra learned counsel for the State and learned counsel for the first informant have vehemently opposed the prayer for bail and argued that insofar as the involvement of the applicant in the present matter is concerned the same is not corroborated from the side of the victim in the her statement recorded under sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. The victim was called by the applicant at his office where she was raped. She was called for getting an employment but the applicant and co-accused Wajeer took advantage of the same and committed rape upon her. 9. After hearing the counsel for the parties and perusing the record, it is evident that the victim is a widow lady having three children. She was in search of employment after which there was some discussion between the applicant, co-accused and the victim for the same but the same could not materialize and the F.I.R. has been lodged after an unexplained delay of 7 months. 10. Looking to the facts and circumstances of this case, the nature of evidence and also the absence of any convincing material to indicate the possibility of tampering with the evidence, this Court is of the view that the applicant may be enlarged on bail. 11. Let the applicant-Nihal Chaudhary @ Rihan @ Furkan, be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice:- 12. The identity, status and residential proof of sureties will be verified by court concerned and in case of breach of any of the conditions mentioned above, court concerned will be at liberty to cancel the bail and send the applicant to prison. 13. The bail application is allowed. Order Date :- 18.9.2023
 
K.K. Maurya
 
(Samit Gopal,J.)