SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. (ORAL) 1. The present application under Section 439 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereafter „ Cr.P.C .‟)/ Section 483 of
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (hereafter „BNSS‟) has
 been filed on behalf of the applicant seeking grant of regular bail in
 case arising out of FIR bearing no. 72/2024, for offence punishable
 under Section 376 / 506 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereafter „ IPC ‟),
 registered at Police Station Neb Sarai, Delhi. 2. Briefly stated, the facts of the present case, as evident from the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 4091/2024 Page 1 of 9 By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:21.01.2025 20:30:59 complaint filed by the complainant, are that she was living in Delhi
 since 2018 with her children, while her husband was working in
 Gujarat. She had come in contact with the accused aged about 26
 years, through her sister, as he was working in Kuwait with her
 sister‟s husband. As alleged, the accused had begun talking to the
 complainant over the phone and had subsequently enticed her. He
 had given her ₹3.5 lakhs to enroll in the course, which the
 complainant had promised to repay after securing a job. Thereafter,
 the accused had begun blackmailing her, compelling her to comply
 with his sexual demands. The complainant had complied with
 whatever the accused used to ask her to do. He allegedly had
 instructed her to undress during WhatsApp video calls. She has
 further alleged that at the end of 2023, the accused had come to Delhi
 had shown her a naked video of hers on his mobile phone, and had
 forcibly established physical relations with her for two days under the
 threat of making her videos public. He had also made a video of the
 complainant in which she was forced to admit having obtained ₹5
 lakh from the accused. Later, he had started defaming her by sending
 the said videos to people in her native village. Later, he had posted
 her inappropriate video on social media platforms such as Facebook,
 WhatsApp, and Instagram. On these allegations, the present FIR was
 registered on 17.01.2024. The complainant was medically examined
 at AIIMS, Delhi and her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was
 recorded. The present accused/applicant was arrested on 20.01.2024. 3. The learned counsel appearing for the accused/applicant argues Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 4091/2024 Page 2 of 9 By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:21.01.2025 20:30:59 that the allegations leveled by the complainant herein are vague and
 false. It is argued that it is a case of a long friendly relationship
 between the accused and the complainant, turning sour due to a
 dispute over money and, since the complainant was unable to repay
 the loan she had obtained from the accused, this false complaint has
 been lodged. In this regard, the learned counsel draws this Court‟s
 attention to a copy of a loan agreement, claimed to have been entered
 into between the accused and the complainant. The learned counsel
 further states that the applicant has already remained in jail for about
 one year, the FSL report has not yet been obtained and
 supplementary chargesheet has not been filed, and the trial is
 expected to take time to conclude; therefore, bail be granted to the
 accused. 4. The learned APP for the State, on the other hand, draws the
 Court‟s attention to the statement of the complainant recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. It is contended that it is not a case where the
 complainant is blackmailing the accused but the accused is
 blackmailing the complainant, as he has captured inappropriate
 videos of hers. The learned APP further submits that the FSL report
 in this case is awaited, and the allegations against the accused are
 very serious; therefore, the present bail application ought to be
 dismissed. 5. The learned amicus curiae, appearing for the complainant
 argues that the complainant had trusted the accused, and that trust Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 4091/2024 Page 3 of 9 By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:21.01.2025 20:30:59 was exploited by him to create inappropriate videos against her
 consent. It is also contended that the accused not only created such
 inappropriate videos but also made them public, aggravating the
 offence in question. The learned amicus also states that the applicant
 had also manipulated and uploaded pictures of the minor daughter of
 the prosecutrix on social media/Instagram, further aggravating the
 matter. She, therefore, argues that the present bail application should
 be rejected. 6. This Court has heard arguments addressed on behalf of both
 the parties and has perused the material available on record. 7. As evident from a perusal of the statement recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C as well as the complaint, it has been alleged by
 the complainant that she had come in contact with the
 accused/applicant, who was living in Kuwait, and both of them had
 developed friendship. The friendship was to the extent that the
 accused herein had himself given her an amount of ₹3.5 lakhs over a
 period of time so that she could pursue a course to become a
 beautician. It is to be noted that the accused herein has not alleged
 that the complainant had forced him to part with that money or had
 taken it through any illegal means. 8. The learned counsel for the accused argued before this Court
 that the complainant was in a consensual relationship with the
 accused and she had taken loan from him, and since she herself had
 entered into a consensual relationship with the accused despite being Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 4091/2024 Page 4 of 9 By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:21.01.2025 20:30:59 married and having children, she cannot accuse the accused of having
 sexually assaulted her. In the bail application also, it has been
 repeatedly mentioned that the complainant was working in a massage
 parlour. This Court, however, is of the view that the mere fact of the
 complainant working in a massage parlour - absent any evidence of
 her being engaged in illicit or unlawful activities - cannot be used to
 undermine or mitigate the seriousness of the alleged offences
 committed against her. In any case, the factum of her working in a
 massage parlour was not hidden by her at any point of time and
 knowing so, the applicant had befriended her and continued his
 relationship with her. 9. Moreover, while on the one hand, it has been averred on behalf
 of the accused in the bail application, and also argued before this
 Court by the learned counsel, that he was in a friendly and consensual
 relationship with the victim, but on the other, he wants to blame the
 complainant of having entered into a relationship with him, allegedly
 consensual, despite being married - totally forgetting that the
 friendship was mutual, and not unilateral. While the accused now
 wants to categorize and differentiate this friendship as if imposed on
 him by the complainant after filing of the present complaint and
 plead innocence, his own pleadings and arguments reflect to the
 contrary. 10. Even if the consent for sexual relations had been given at any
 point of time by the complainant, such consent cannot, in any Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 4091/2024 Page 5 of 9 By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:21.01.2025 20:30:59 manner, be construed as consent to capture and post her inappropriate
 videos on social media platforms. Consent to engage in physical
 relations does not extend to the misuse or exploitation of a person‟s
 private moments or their depiction in an inappropriate and derogatory
 manner. Thus, even if the first episode of the sexual relationship
 between the complainant and the accused herein had been
 consensual, the subsequent acts of the accused were clearly rooted in
 coercion and blackmail. The complainant alleges that while she had
 put her trust in the accused as they had developed friendship with
 each other, the accused had started threatening her that in case she
 will not show her body parts inappropriately to him during the video
 calls, he will commit suicide and put the blame on her. Once the
 accused had recorded the complainant's inappropriate videos without
 her consent, these videos became tools of manipulation and control.
 The complainant, as per the allegations, was coerced into continuing
 the relationship and complying with the accused‟s demands under the
 threat of having these videos made public. As alleged, the accused
 used such videos to blackmail the complainant into further
 compliance, thereby exploiting her vulnerability. Therefore, the
 subsequent sexual encounters were no longer consensual but were
 carried out under duress, with the complainant being put in fear of
 public humiliation and reputational damage. 11. Thus, while the first sexual encounter may have been
 consensual, the subsequent ones were allegedly based on blackmail,
 with the accused taking advantage of the videos to exert control over Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 4091/2024 Page 6 of 9 By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:21.01.2025 20:30:59 the complainant. The accused‟s actions in preparing the videos and
 using them to manipulate and sexually exploit the complainant
 prima-facie reflects a strategy of abuse and exploitation, transcending
 any initial consensual interaction. 12. In view of these allegations, it is evident that the accused‟s
 conduct transcended the boundaries of a mere friendship. The
 relationship between the complainant and the accused cannot be
 termed as a "friendship simpliciter" wherein financial assistance was
 extended by one friend to another. Instead, it prima facie appears that
 the accused had exploited this relationship under the guise of a loan
 transaction. A loan arrangement, even between friends, does not
 entitle one party to exploit the other‟s vulnerability or dignity. 13. Further, the assertion made in the bail application that the
 complainant, "being a married woman, was mature and intelligent
 enough to understand the significance and consequences of her
 actions" is a specious argument that cannot absolve the accused of
 the allegations levelled against him. Admittedly, initially both of
 them had become friends, and the complainant had never hidden
 from him that she was married and he himself had entered into
 friendship and relationship with her, sexual or otherwise, and had
 financially helped her. To now unilaterally blame it on the
 complainant that since she was already a married woman, it was she
 who was on the wrong side of law, will be unacceptable. Thus, in this
 Court‟s opinion, the attempt to weaponize the complainant‟s marital Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 4091/2024 Page 7 of 9 By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:21.01.2025 20:30:59 status and professional background to diminish the gravity of the
 allegations is unacceptable. 14. The allegations further assume seriousness when the statement
 recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. also records that the applicant
 herein, after forcibly on many occasions, sexually assaulting the
 complainant by blackmailing her on the strength of inappropriate
 videos and photographs, had gone a step further and had even
 morphed and used the photograph of the other female family
 members of the complainant, including the complainant‟s minor
 daughter, aged about 13 years, on social media and had written that
 they indulge in sex trade. The complainant had started receiving
 unsolicited phone calls from multiple persons as to how much she
 will charge for having sex for a night. The alleged use of the
 photograph of the complainant‟s daughter by the accused has no
 explanation. Admittedly, a pen drive containing such videos and
 photographs of the victim as well as the daughter of the victim, which
 were uploaded by the accused on social media, were handed over to
 the IO, and the same are matter of investigation. 15. Thus, at this stage, considering the aforesaid facts and
 circumstances of the case, the gravity and seriousness of the offence,
 and in view of the fact that material witnesses are yet to be examined
 before the learned Trial Court, this Court does not find it a fit case for
 grant of bail. 16. Accordingly, the present bail application stands dismissed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 4091/2024 Page 8 of 9 By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:21.01.2025 20:30:59 alongwith pending application. 17. However, the Director, FSL is requested to ensure that the FSL
 report in this case is prepared and handed over to the I.O. at the
 earliest since the accused is in judicial custody, lest the trial is
 delayed due to non-availability of the FSL report. The I.O. of the case
 shall ensure that a copy of this order is forwarded to the Director,
 FSL. 18. Nothing expressed hereinabove shall tantamount to an
 expression of opinion on merits of the case. 19. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 JANUARY 17, 2025/ns Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 4091/2024 Page 9 of 9 By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:21.01.2025 20:30:59