82. Leading a double­pronged attack on the 

prosecution case, Sh.Ramesh Gupta, Ld.Senior Advocate 

along with Sh.C.L.Gupta and Sh.Sunil Chaudhary, 

Advocates, Ld.Defence Counsels appearing on behalf of the 

public servants, contended that the provisions of Section 19 of 

Prevention of Corruption Act is a mandatory provision and the 

Court does not have the jurisdiction to take cognizance when 

the "sanction" under this provision is granted in mechanical C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.53 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 83. Ld.Defence Counsels contended that the 

sanction order passed by PW­1 Sujit Dass against accused 

G.C.Gupta ie. Ex.PW.1/A ; and accused V.P.Pandhi ie. Ex.PW.

1/C are bad in law on 2 grounds. It is contended that PW­1 was 

not the competent authority to pass the sanction order and 

secondly, the same is invalid and bad in law, as it was passed 

in a mechanical manner and without application of mind. It is 

contended that the sanctioning authority has failed to take into 

consideration the fact that other officers who have issued the 

policy or recommended / approved the claim, were not 

proceeded against and no sanction for prosecution, was granted 

against them. 84. I have considered the submissions advanced on 

this aspect and have considered the relevant provisions of law C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.54 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 85. For administration of Criminal Justice 

System, an onerous duty is cast on the Courts, to effectively 

tackle and control the endemic of offences, so as to prevent the 

society from drifting towards savage society. A balanced 

approach is required to be adopted by the courts giving strict 

interpretation to the Clauses of the Penal Provisions and 

simultaneously being mindful of the inviolable Constitutional 

Rights granted to the accused, so as to ensure fair trial. 86. Subjecting any individual to undergo "criminal 

trial" is an encroachment / restriction on his fundamental right 

to "life and liberty". As per the constitutional mandate 

enshrined in Article 21 of Constitution of India, granted to 

each and every citizen of the country, no one can be deprived of 

his right to life and liberty, except by the due "process of C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.55 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 87. Public servants in whatever capacities they 

are holding their offices, are supposed to give effect to the 

objects for which their organization is functioning, so that the 

benefits arising out of their actions, should benefit their 

country in general and their organization in particular. To 

achieve the object, for which the policies and plans of the 

organization are put in place, all the public servants are 

expected to discharge their functions with utmost propriety and 

all fairness. Experience however has revealed that many public 

servants, instead of using their good offices for the public good, 

mis­use the same for their personal benefits by indulging into 

corrupt and improper practices. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.56 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 88. Legislature in its wisdom in order to curb such 

corrupt and improper practices had brought " Prevention of 

Corruption Act, 1988 " on the Statute Book for not only, 

punishing those who had violated the very oath of honesty and 

sincerity with which they had assumed their office and 

indulged in 'corrupt practices', but also to deter the others from 

treading the path of dishonesty. 89. Being aware of the fact that some of the honest 

public servants may be dragged into vexatious and uncalled for 

prosecution, the Legislature had in Section­19 of Prevention of 

Corruption Act , incorporated a "saviour clause" so as to 

protect them and to encourage them to continue with the good 

work. But for this clause, the government process would 

become 'static' as public servants would hesitate to take even 

the most honest, bonafide and genuine decisions fearing 

harassment from frivolous and uncalled for allegations. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.57 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 90. To balance these two conflicting interests, one 

of which is to give effect to the very object for which Prevention 

of Corruption Act was brought on the Statute Book to deal with 

the guilty sternly and on the other hand, to give effect to the 

shield provided by the Legislature to protect honest and 

diligent public servants from vexatious and uncalled for 

prosecution, the onerous duty has been placed on the Courts, 

which are an important cog in the wheels of Administration of 

Justice. The courts are obligated to strike balance between 

these two conflicting interests in such a manner, so that 

majesty of "Rule of Law" is neither undermined nor defeated. 91. Before proceeding to advert upon the 

submissions advanced, it is pertinent to make mention of Section 19 of Prevention of Corruption Act, which is reproduced 

as under:­ C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.58 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- Judgement in the matter of:- Judgement in the matter of:- 92. The object and character of this provision is 

evidently emanating from the words used in the Section by the 

Legislature : "No Court shall take cognizance of such 

offence, except with the previous sanction". Use of words 

"No" and "shall" makes it abundantly clear that the bar on the 

exercise of power of the Court to take cognizance of an offence 

is absolute and complete. As per Black's Law Dictionary, the 

word "cognizance" means jurisdiction or the exercise of 

jurisdiction. In common parlance, it means "taking notice of". 

In view thereof, in absence of the sanction, the court is 

precluded from even taking notice of the offence or exercising 

its jurisdiction, in respect of a public servant. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.61 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 93. Thus, the provision has been imparted a 

mandatory character and has been held so by various 

authoritative pronouncements by Hon'ble Apex Court. While 

holding grant of sanction to be a pre­requisite or sine­qua­non 

for taking cognizance, regard is to be had to the fact that it can 

be a shield to discourage vexatious prosecution of innocent 

public servant, but it should not be permitted to be used as a 

weapon against the prosecution by the guilty. 94. The protection given by the Legislature is to 

be extended to the extent provided therein and it cannot and 

should not be stretched elastically to cover those, who are not 

intended by the Legislature to be under the protective 

umbrella. As to my mind the Legislature by enacting any 

provision in the Act, which prohibits the taking of cognizance of 

offence by a Court, unless certain conditions are complied with, 

did not purport to condone the offence. Thus, such provision is 

to be construed on the basis of words used therein, without C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.62 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 95. In the backdrop of above, I shall consider the 

arguments advanced by Ld.Defence Counsels raised by them to 

challenge the authenticity of the sanction order Ex.PW.1/A 

passed qua G.C.Gupta and Ex.PW.1/C qua accused V.P.Pandhi 

by PW­1 Sh.Sujit Dass, the then General Manager, NIC. 96. Firstly, I shall consider the arguments 

advanced on the aspect of "competence of the sanctioning 

authority" to pass the sanction orders. 97. Though, Ld.Defence Counsels during the 

course of arguments had contended that PW­1 was not the 

competent authority to pass sanction orders against 

G.C.Gupta, who at relevant point of time was posted as 

Assistant Manager NIC, and V.P.Pandhi who was also posted 

as such. However, nothing has been brought on record either C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.63 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 98. In terms of Section 19 (1) (c) of the Act, the 

sanction for prosecution has to be granted by an authority, 

which is competent to remove the said person from his office. 99. The question of competence of the "appointing / 

sanctioning authority" came up for consideration before Hon'ble 

Supreme Court in case titled " Mohd.Iqbal Ahmed Vs. State 

of Andhra Pradesh ", reported as AIR 1979 SC 677, wherein 

it was held that : Judgement in the matter of:- 100. Admittedly, in the present case, PW­1 Sujit 

Kumar Dass, was posted as General Manager NIC at the 

relevant point of time. Being General Manager, it was PW­1 

who was the authority capable of removing the officers of the 

rank of Assistant Manager from the services. Nothing has 

been put to this witness during his cross examination either on 

behalf of accused G.C.Gupta or on behalf of accused 

V.P.Pandhi, even to suggest that General Manager was not the 

competent authority to remove an officer of the rank of 

Assistant Manager from his office. 101. Thus PW­1 being General Manager was the 

competent authority to remove an officer of the rank of 

Assistant Manager, and thus had the requisite competence to 

pass the sanction orders qua accused no.1 and 2, which he did. 102. In view thereof, I do not find any grounds in 

this contention of Ld.Defence Counsels that PW­1 was not C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.65 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 103. This has brought me down to the second limb 

of the contentions raised by Ld.Defence Counsels stating that 

sanction orders were passed by PW­1 without application of 

mind. It is contended by Ld.Defence Counsels relying upon the 

cross examination of PW­1 that he had failed to look into the 

relevant documents and had merely passed the sanction orders 

at instance of CBI without taking into consideration that no 

sanction for prosecution is passed by him against the other 

officers, who had performed similar roles. It is further 

contended that sanctioning authority had passed the sanction 

order without referring the matter to Chief Vigilance Officer 

and without getting the opinion of CVC on the same. 104. I have considered the submissions advanced 

and have perused the sanction orders as well as deposition of C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.66 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 105. It has been held by Hon'ble Apex Court time 

and again that the Court where the question of validity of 

sanction on the grounds of 'non application of mind' is raised, 

has to see as to whether the sanctioning authority did consider 

all the evidence collected by the investigating agency ie. oral as 

well as documentary. 106. Hon'ble Apex Court in a recent case titled 

" State of Maharashtra Vs. Mahesh G.Jain " reported as 

Criminal Appeal no.2345 of 2009 decided on 28.05.2013 had 

aptly summed up the principles and guidelines which are 

required to be followed to decide the question which inundates 

the Trial Court, challenging the sanction order. 107. Hon'ble Apex Court in this judgement had 

considered all the previous laws laid down by it, including the C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.67 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 108. Hon'ble Apex Court after appreciating the 

earlier precedents on the subject, had culled out the guiding 

principles in Para 13 of its Judgement, which are reproduced as 

under :­ (a) It is incumbent on the prosecution to prove 
 that valid sanction has been granted by 
 Sanctioning Authority after being satisfied that a 
 case for sanction has been made out. (b) The Sanction Order may expressly show 
 that the sanctioning authority has perused the 
 material placed before him and after 
 consideration of the circumstances, has granted 
 sanction for prosecution. (c) The prosecution may prove by adducing 
 the evidence that the material was placed before 
 the Sanctioning Authority and his satisfaction 
 was arrived at, upon perusal of the material 
 placed before him. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.68 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- ..... (emphasis supplied). C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.69 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 109. In view of these guiding principles, more 

particularly the principle mentioned at Point (d) (e) (f) and (g) above, the adequacy of the material placed before the 

Sanctioning authority is not required to be gone into, as this 

Court is not sitting in appeal over the sanction order. 110. The discretion whether to grant or not to grant 

the sanction order lies with the sanctioning authority and it is 

the subjective opinion of the said administrative authority, 

which it has to arrive, on the basis of material placed before it. 111. The sanctioning authority was under an 

obligation to see the material placed before it by CBI, 

collected during the course of investigations and to arrive at a 

conclusion as to whether the same is sufficient and requires 

grant of sanction for prosecution of accused persons or not. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.70 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 112. In view thereof, it is to be seen as to whether 

the complete record of the investigations, including oral and 

documentary evidence collected was or was not placed before 

the sanctioning authority. 113. It is apparent on perusal of cross examination 

of PW­1 conducted on behalf of accused G.C.Gupta that he had 

perused the report of CBI forwarded by S.P., which contained 

calendar of events, gist of allegations as well as opinion of CBI, 

before passing the sanction order. The factum of placing the 

complete record after conclusion of the investigations before the 

competent authority, has also been deposed so, by the 

investigating officer ie. PW­30 R.P.Kaushal. No suggestion, 

whatsoever was given either to PW­1 or to PW­30 on behalf of 

the accused persons, that the same was either not produced 

before PW­1 or he had not applied his mind on the same. PW­1 

during the course of his cross examination, did state that he 

after perusing the material collected by the investigating C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.71 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 114. The other contention of Ld.Defence Counsels 

that the sanctioning authority had passed the sanction order 

without referring the matter to CVC, as per notification no.

98 / VGL/62 dated 15.10.2003, to my mind is also devoid of any 

merits on 2 counts. Firstly, the sanction order Ex.PW.1/A and 

Ex.PW.1/C were passed by the sanctioning authority on 

17.06.2003 ie. much before the date of notification, relied upon 

by Ld.Defence Counsels. Secondly, because Section 19 of the 

Act, as interpreted by Hon'ble Apex Court makes it obligatory 

on the part of sanctioning authority to grant or not to grant the 

same on the basis of its own subjective satisfaction & without 

any influence from any other authority. 115. In view thereof, there was no requirement of 

referring the matter to CVC by the sanctioning authority, for 

getting its opinion before passing the sanction orders, as has C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.72 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 116. Another facet to this argument advanced by 

Ld.Defence Counsels was that the sanction orders are bad as no 

sanction for prosecution was passed by PW­1 against other 

similarly situated officers. This contention of Ld.Defence 

Counsels does not hold waters as the sanctioning authority 

before whom the material is placed by CBI after investigations, 

is required to form an opinion qua those persons only, for 

whom sanction is sought, as to whether the same is to be 

granted or not. This is beyond the scope / purview and 

jurisdiction of sanctioning authority to pass sanction for 

prosecution against other officers qua whom neither any 

investigations were done, nor any evidence was collected nor 

the sanction was sought. 117. Even otherwise, the Legislature in order to 

stop unjustified claims raised on behalf of public servants to C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.73 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 118. Hon'ble Apex Court in a recent case titled 

" State of Bihar & Ors. vs. Rajmangal Ram " in Criminal 

Appeal No.708 of 2014, arising out of SLP (Crl.) No.8013 of 

2012, decided on 31.03.2014 ; has held that the Sanction Order 

cannot be held to be invalid and proceedings cannot be 

interdicted without giving any finding to the effect that a 

failure of justice as a result thereof, has occasioned. 119. Merely because any error or irregularity has 

occurred in the sanction order, the same is not to be considered C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.74 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 120. In the present case, as we are at the fag­end of 

the trial and accused public servants have already undergone 

the trial, further I have not found any error or omission in the 

sanction orders passed qua them by the sanctioning authorities 

against the accused public servants, resulting in any failure of 

justice. 121. Thus, I do not find any merits in the 

contentions advanced by Ld.Defence Counsels to challenge the 

authenticity of the sanction orders ie. Ex.PW.1/A and Ex.PW.

1/C, which to my mind have been passed by the sanctioning 

authority with due & proper application of mind. 122. Having held that the sanction for prosecution 

granted against the public servants was valid, I shall now 

delve upon the contentions of Ld.Defence Counsels on factual C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.75 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 123. To better appreciate the deposition of 

prosecution witnesses in the light of contentions advanced, it is 

pertinent to chalk out the procedure for processing of "Marine 

Claims". The same as emanating out of material on record, in 

the form of documentary and oral evidence as per the 

deposition of PW­11 N.K.Dutta, PW­12 Gopa Sahu, PW­3 

A.K.Seth, PW­4 A.L.Gambhir, PW­7 A.K.Tiwari and PW­8 

Madan Lal Meena, which has not been disputed, even by the 

accused persons, is as under:­

 Procedure for processing Marine Claims: Judgement in the matter of:- Judgement in the matter of:- 124. In view of abovementioned duties and 

obligations which these public servants, being responsible 

officers of National Insurance Company, were required to 

fulfil, it is to be seen whether they had performed their duties, 

as was expected from them or whether the actions and 

omissions of theirs were laden with any dishonest intention, C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.78 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 125. Prosecution evidence which has come up on 

record, vis­a­vis each of the accused facing trial is required to 

be considered. Conspiracy is the most pivotal part of the 

prosecution case, which is the primary charge against the 

accused persons, being axis around which revolves the other 

charges. As per the case of prosecution, the officers of NIC 

being public servants, had entered into a criminal conspiracy 

with the private persons, object of which was to cheat NIC. 126. It is contended by Ld.Prosecutor that the 

public servants knowing or having reasons to believe that the 

documents submitted for issuance of policy as well as those 

submitted in support of the claim to be forged ones, have 

facilitated the submission of same by or on behalf of the C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.79 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 127. Ld.Public Prosecutor made an endeavour to 

invoke Section 10 of Indian Evidence Act. He, in order to 

buttress his arguments, contended that all the conspirators 

should be made constructively liable for the substantive 

offences committed, pursuant to the conspiracy on the basis of 

the "Principle of Agency". He contended that the public 

servants had entered into a conspiracy with the private 

persons, therefore the acts done by the private persons, 

pursuant to the conspiracy, in contemplation of law, should be 

treated as committed by each one of them, therefore all of them 

should be held responsible and liable for the same. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.80 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 128. I have considered the submissions advanced by 

Ld.Public Prosecutor. In order to appreciate the same, it is 

pertinent to make mention of Section 10 of Indian Evidence 

Act, which reads as under :­
 SECTION 10 ­ THINGS SAID OR DONE BY 
 CONSPIRATOR IN REFERENCE TO COMMON 
 DESIGN - Where there is reasonable ground to 
 believe that two or more persons have conspired 
 together to commit an offence or an actionable 
 wrong, anything said, done or written by any one 
 of such persons in reference to their common 
 intention, after the time when such intention was 
 first entertained by any one of them, is a relevant 
 fact as against each of the persons believed to so 
 conspiring, as well for the purpose of proving the 
 existence of the conspiracy as for the purpose of 
 showing that any such person was a party to it. 129. Bare perusal of this Section makes it evident 

that there is no such deeming provision in it, as has been 

contended by Ld.Prosecutor. No doubt, Section 10 rests on the 

'Principle of Agency', but it lays down only a rule of relevancy. 

As per the provisions of this Section, anything done or said by 

one of the conspirators in reference to the common intention C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.81 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 130. This has been held so by Privy Counsel in case 

titled " Mirza Akbar vs. King Emperor " reported as AIR 

1940 PC 176. This interpretation has been followed by Hon'ble 

Apex Court in catena of decisions. 131. Hon'ble Mr.Justice Jagannath Shetty had 

analyzed this Section in case titled " Kehar Singh & Ors. v/s 

State (Delhi Administration )" reported as 1988 (3) SCC 

609, as under :­

 "From an analysis of the section, it will be 
 seen that Section 10 will come into play only 
 when the court is satisfied that there is 
 reasonable ground to believe that two or 
 more persons have conspired together to C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.82 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 132. In view thereof, distinction was made between 

the conspiracy and the offence (s) committed, pursuant to the 

conspiracy. It is only in order to prove the existence of 

conspiracy and parties to the conspiracy, that this rule of 

evidence, can be put in service. Judgement in the matter of:- 133. In view thereof, I do not find any merits in the 

contentions advanced by Ld.Public Prosecutor as the "Theory 

of Agency" cannot be extended thus far, that is to say, to hold 

all the conspirators guilty of actual offence(s) committed in 

execution of common design, if such offence(s) were committed 

by one of them, without participation of others. 134. Whether or not, conspirators will be liable for 

substantive offence other than the conspiracy and if so, to 

what extent, has to be proved on record by the prosecution on 

the basis of evidence which, I shall be adverting to hereinafter. 135. However, before going that far, I would hasten 

to add that prosecution has first to establish that all the 

accused persons facing trial, were in fact party to the alleged 

conspiracy with which they have been charged. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.84 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 136. In an attempt to demolish the prosecution 

case, Sh.Ramesh Gupta, Ld.Senior Advocate along with 

Sh.C.L.Gupta, Sh.Sunil Chaudhary, Sh.R.K.Kohli and 

Sh.Ravinder Chadha, Advocates vociferously contended during 

the course of arguments, that there is nothing on record 

brought by the prosecution during the course of evidence, from 

which it can be inferred that there was any meeting of mind 

between the public servants and the other accused persons. It 

is further submitted by Ld.Defence Counsels of all the accused 

persons, that the conspiracy can only be established on the 

basis of circumstantial evidence. Further, the circumstances 

proved, should be such that they must form a chain of events, 

leading to an irrepressible conclusion about guilt of the 

accused. 137. In support of their contentions, Ld.Defence 

Counsels had relied upon the law laid down in cases titled as 

under :­ C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.85 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- reported as 2009 (3) SCC (CRI.) 66. (iv) "John Pandian vs. State" 138. I have considered the submissions advanced 

and have perused the law laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court in 

the precedents relied upon by Ld.Defence Counsels. There is no 

denying the fact that Hon'ble Apex Court while holding that 

the offence of conspiracy is committed in secrecy and can be 

proved only by circumstantial evidence has held that these 

circumstances should be proved, beyond reasonable doubt, 

leading to the guilt of the accused. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.86 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 139. Section 120­A IPC defines "criminal 

conspiracy". Accordingly to this section when two or more 

persons agree to do, or cause to be done (i) an illegal act, or (ii) 

an act which is not illegal, by illegal means such an agreement 

is designated as "criminal conspiracy". 140. In view of this definition, the gist of the offence 

is "an agreement to break the law". Parties to such an 

agreement are guilty of criminal conspiracy, though the illegal 

act agreed upon by them to be done, has not or could not be 

done. It is not necessary that all the parties to such an 

agreement should agree to do a single illegal act. It may 

comprise of commission of a number of acts. It is not necessary 

that all the conspirators must know each and every detail of 

the conspiracy. 141. Conspiracy is seldom an open affair. Its 

existence and objects can only be deduced from circumstances C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.87 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 142. As Conspiracy has to be and can only be 

inferred from the physical manifestation of conduct of the 

conspirators / accused. Thus, to deduce actual meeting of minds 

amongst the accused person to find out transmission of 

thoughts, the actual words used by them during 

communication, are to be considered. 143. The conduct of the conspirators / accused are to 

be deciphered not only from the actual words spoken by them 

but also from their body language, mannerism and behaviour 

by which they intervene in the conversation taking place 

between the complainant and co­accused, as their state of mind 

has to be inferred on the basis of their conduct. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.88 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 144. Hon'ble Apex Court in case titled 

" V.C.Shukla vs. State " reported as 1980 (2) SCC ; had held 

that in most cases it will be difficult to get direct evidence of 

the crime, but conspiracy can be inferred even from 

circumstances giving rise to a conclusive or irrepressible 

inference of an agreement between two or more persons, 

committing an offence. 145. Hon'ble Apex Court in case titled " Noor 

Mohd. Yusuf Momin vs. State of Maharashtra " reported 

as AIR 1971 SC 885, has held :­

 "...in most cases proof of conspiracy is largely 
 inferential though the inference must be founded 
 on solid facts. Surrounding circumstances and 
 antecedent and subsequent conduct, among 
 other factors, constitute relevant material." 146. Hon'ble Apex Court in another case titled 

" John Pandian vs. State " reported as 2011 (1) Crimes SC C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.89 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 147. For the purposes of considering the conduct of 

the accused persons so as to deduce about his complicity with 

the conspiracy, a "rule of caution" has been laid down by Privy Counsel in case reported as AIR 1954 PC 140 that :­

 "In a joint trial care must be taken to 
 separate the admissible evidence against each 
 accused and the judicial mind should not be 
 allowed to be influenced by evidence 
 admissible only against others". C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.90 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 148. In case titled "Alvin Krumlewitch v. United 

States of America" reported as (93 L.Ed. 790) ; it has been 

held by Justice Jackson that :­
 "co­defendant in a conspiracy trial occupies 
 an uneasy seat" and "it is difficult for the 
 individual to make his own case stand on its 
 own merits in the minds of jurors who are 
 ready to believe that birds of a feather are 
 flocked together." 149. These words of caution were reiterated by 

Hon'ble Apex Court speaking through Hon'ble Mr.Justice 

D.P.Wadhwa in case titled " State vs. Nalini " reported as 

1999 (5) SCC 253 ; that :­

 "There is a need to guard against prejudice 
 being caused to the accused on account of the 
 joint trial with other conspirators. The 
 learned Judge observed that "there is always 
 difficulty in tracing the precise contribution 
 of each member of the conspiracy but then 
 there has to be cogent and convincing 
 evidence against each one of the accused 
 charged with the offence of conspiracy". C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.91 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 150. Hon'ble Apex Court in case titled " Esher 

Singh Vs. State of A.P ." reported as 2004 (11) SCC 585 has 

held as under; 151. Being aware of the fact that for the purposes of 

appreciating the evidence on record with respect to the 

allegations of conspiracy, the circumstances in which the 

accused acted, their actions and mannerism are required to be 

considered, which I shall look into, mindful of the words of 

caution laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court in above referred 

precedents. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.92 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 152. The marine policy Ex.PW­8/DA was issued to 

cover a consignment purportedly to be sent by M/s Cosmic 

Computers & Peripherals, Hyderabad, the consignor consisting 

of computer parts to M/s M.S. Computers & Communications, 

the insured / consignee in Delhi through M/s K.R.Golden 

Transport Corporation. The claim was lodged by the insured, 

processed and passed by the Insurance Company / insurer on 

alleged short delivery of consignment by the transporter. In 

order to ascertain the authenticity and genuineness of the 

transaction the essential requisites are the existence of alleged 

consignor, the transporter through whom the consignment was 

sought to be transported and the short delivery to the consignee 

of the consignment by transporter. 153. In case, any of these links is missing or is not 

in existence, then as a necessary corollary it would follow 

that the whole transaction was false / fake and the claim 

amount has been wrongly and fraudulently obtained from the C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.93 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 154. In order to ascertain above, the most 

important file is the claim file prepared and maintained by DO­

XXIII of NIC. The said claim file consisting of 27 pages is 

proved on record by PW­3 Sh.A.K.Seth, Vigilance Officer of the 

Insurance Company. This file as per PW­3 was taken in 

possession by Vigilance Department of the Insurance Company 

from DO­XXIII in 1999. The same was handed over to IO 

PW­29 S.K.Kashyap by PW­5 V.K.Bajaj vide seizure memo Ex. 

PW­5/A. 155. It is contended by Ld. Public Prosecutor that 

as the complete documents required for processing and 

settlement of claim are not available in the claim file Ex. 

PW­3/2, therefore, that in itself is sufficient to prove that claim 

has been fraudulently given to the insured by accused public C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.94 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 156. This contention of Ld. Public Prosecutor is 

controverted by Ld. Defence Counsels on the ground that as 

complete chain of handing over of the file and its preservance 

in safe custody has not been proved, therefore, non­availability 

of the documents in claim file cannot be imputed on the public 

servants. Ld. Defence Counsels placed reliance on the 

precedent titled "Anil Maheshwari & Others Versus CBI" 157. I have considered the rival contentions and 

have perused the precedent relied upon in the light of evidence 

on record. 158. PW­3 A.K.Seth during his cross examination 

did state that the claim files including Ex. PW­3/2 were seized 

by his team and they had not carried out any other proceedings C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.95 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 159. During his cross examination, PW­29 

S.K.Kashyap, the initial Investigating officer stated that he 

does not remember to have examined the aspect as to in whose 

custody, the claim files were for the period 1999 till 2001 when 

he seized the same from PW­5 V.K.Bajaj. He admitted that he 

had not taken into possession the inventory regarding seizure 

of the files by the Vigilance department from DO­XXIII, during 

the course of Vigilance enquiry in the year 1999. 160. The prosecution evidence which has come up 

on record reveals that the present claim file Ex. PW­3/2 was the 

record of DO­XIII of NIC where accused G.C.Gupta & C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.96 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 161. In view thereof, the precedent relied upon by 

Ld. Defence Counsels in "Anil Maheshwari's case" (Supra) 

decided by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in almost similar case 

squarely applies on this aspect. Thus the contention of Ld. 

Public Prosecutor that in absence of required documents from C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.97 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 162. While holding so, I would hasten to add that a 

counter contention raised by Ld. Defence Counsels, that for the 

purposes of adjudication of present case, the claim file Ex. 

PW­3/2 cannot be looked into and is of no relevance, cannot be 

accepted. As the accused persons themselves are relying on the 

documents in the claim file and it is not the case of any of the 

parties that the documents on record in file Ex. PW­3/2 were 

inserted subsequently by Vigilance Department or the 

Investigating agency. Neither any such suggestion was put on 

behalf of accused persons to prosecution witnesses from the 

Insurance Company nor to the witnesses from the 

investigating agency. 163. Thus the documents in the claim file are the 

relevant and important ones to ascertain the charges with C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.98 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 164. As per material on record, alongwith the loss 

intimation, copy of a letter dated 02.01.1998 from M/s M.S. 

Computers & Communication to the consignor M/s Cosmic 

Computers & Peripherals was filed which is at page 17 of file 

Ex. PW­3/2. As per this letter and copy of G.R. Ex. PW­29/J, 

the address of alleged consignor is mentioned as 117, Lal 

Bunglow, Greenlands, Hyderabad ­ 500016. The address of 

alleged transporter as per Ex. PW­29/J was 780, Paiga Plaza, 

Bashir Bagh, Hyderabad. 165. It is alleged that during investigations, no 

such firms were found existing at the given addresses. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.99 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 166. Prosecution in order to prove the same had 

examined IO PW­30 R.P.Kaushal, PW­23 Inspector M.B.Reddy, 

CBI, Hyderabad and PW­21 P.Nageshan, the postman, of the 

concerned area. 167. PW­30 categorically deposed that to verify the 

existence of M/s Cosmic Computers & Peripherals and M/s 

K.R.Golden Transport Corporation he had requested S.P., CBI, 

Hyderabad on which Inspector M.B.Reddy was deputed. He 

deposed that Inspector M.B.Reddy after conducting personal 

enquiry and sending letters addressed to the alleged consignor 

and transporter, found no such firms existing at the given 

addresses. He deposed that Inspector M.B.Reddy had 

forwarded his letters Ex. PW­23/A, Ex.PW.23/C and envelopes 

Ex. PW­23/B and Ex.PW.23/D alongwith endorsement of the 

concerned postmen and their statements to him. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.100 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 168. Nothing material was put to the Investigating 

Officer during his cross examination on behalf of the accused 

persons except for the suggestion that he himself had not gone 

to Hyderabad to verify the existence or non­existence of these 

firms, which he admitted. The other suggestion that the 

endorsement on the envelopes Ex. PW­29/B and Ex. PW­29/D 

were forged in collusion with CBI, Hyderabad was denied by 

PW­30, the investigating officer. 169. PW­23 Inspector M.B.Reddy is the most 

material witness in this regard. He deposed that pursuant to 

receipt of directions from the then S.P., CBI, Hyderabad he 

conducted verification of existence of M/s Cosmic Computers & 

Peripherals and M/s K.R.Golden Transport Corporation by 

sending letters at the addresses of these firms but the same 

were received back undelivered with endorsement of the 

respective postmen of the area. He proved his letters as Ex. 

PW­29/A with respect to M/s Cosmic Computers & Peripherals C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.101 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 170. PW­23 categorically deposed that he then 

personally visited the given addresses. He went on to depose 

that the address of M/s Cosmic Computers & Peripherals was 

in existence but no such firm operated from said address which 

fact he verified from the occupants of said address. 171. With respect to M/s K.R.Golden Transport 

Corporation PW­23 deposed that after visiting the area he 

found the building by name of Piaga Plaza which had numbers 

only from 701 to 704 and there was no Flat no. 780 in existence. 

He deposed that he had examined the postmen of the area and 

had recorded their statements, which he forwarded to IO 

alongwith the returned envelops. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.102 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 172. Nothing material emanated out of cross 

examination of this witness as he was put only this suggestion 

that he had not posted any letters but had got the endorsement 

wrongly made from the postmen of the area by pressuring 

them. PW­23 denied this suggestion and also denied that he 

had not visited the area himself. 173. The contention of Ld. Defence Counsels that 

PW­23 had wrongly obtained endorsement on the envelops 

from the postmen without actually posting the same, is belied 

on bare perusal of the envelops Ex. PW­29/B & Ex. PW­29/D 

which bears the requisite stamps / seal of the postal 

authorities. 174. Further PW­21 P.Nagesham, the postman of 

the concerned post office, deposed that the envelop Ex. 

PW­29/D was received in Post office Bashir Bagh, Hyderabad 

and was entrusted to him for delivery. He deposed that he C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.103 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 175. During his cross examination he denied the 

suggestion that he made endorsement Ex. PW­21/A at instance 

of CBI. No suggestion whatsoever was given either to this 

witness or to PW­23 that M/s Cosmic Computers & Peripherals 

and M/s K.R.Golden Transport Corporation were existing at the 

given addresses. 176. In view of this evidence which has come up on 

record, prosecution has been able to establish that no firms by 

the name of M/s Cosmic Computers & Peripherals or M/s 

K.R.Golden Transport Corporation were in existence or have 

operated from the premises addresses of which are on record. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.104 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 177. Further from the cross examination of PW­21 

& PW­23, I did not find any reason to doubt the version given 

on record by them during their examination in chief, that 

neither M/s Cosmic Computers & Peripherals nor M/s 

K.R.Golden Transport Corporation were in existence at the 

given addresses. 178. Apart from the evidence which as been led on 

record by prosecution, it is apparent from statement under section 313 Cr.P.C of accused Munish Yadav, who admittedly 

is the Proprietor of M/s M.S.Computers and Communications, 

the alleged consignee, that he had stated not to have taken any 

insurance cover for the consignment in question, nor transacted 

with the alleged consignor, ie. M/s Cosmic Computers and 

Peripherals. From the same, it is established on record that C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.105 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 179. The resultant inference is that neither any 

goods were sold by the alleged consignor to consignee / insured, 

nor the same were transported through M/s K.R.Golden 

Transport Corporation vide G.R. Ex. PW­29/J. Meaning 

thereby, that the G.R. Ex. PW­29/J is a false and bogus 

document, as no such transport firm was in existence at the 

given address. 180. In the backdrop of above, I shall consider the 

contentions advanced vis­a­vis the prosecution evidence 

accused wise.  Case qua accused MUNISH YADAV:­ 181. While considering the case qua accused 

Munish Yadav, I shall refrain myself from making any C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.106 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 182. Sh.Ravinder Chadha, Ld.Defence Counsel 

contended that once supplementary charge sheet was filed by 

the prosecution against Rajpal Yadav, the same amounts to 

exonerating / absolving accused Munish Yadav, who was 

named in the "initial charge sheet". He contended that 

therefore, no charge should have been framed against Munish 

Yadav at first instance, and as he has already undergone trial, 

he should be acquitted. 183. I do not find any merits in this contention of 

Ld.Defence Counsel. The supplementary charge sheet, as the 

name suggests supplements the initial charge sheet and is not 

filed on record to supplant, replace or over­write the facts, 

alleged in the initial charge sheet. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.107 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 184. Next contention of Ld.Defence Counsel was 

that prosecution has failed to bring on record any document to 

link accused Munish Yadav with the present transaction. He 

contended that right from the application seeking issuance of 

policy till collection of the cheque of the claim amount Ex.PW.

14/A, there is no document on record bearing signatures of 

Munish Yadav. Ld.Defence Counsel contended that all these 

documents bears signatures of Rajpal Yadav, who misused the 

name of firm of Munish Yadav. 185. The evidence which has come up on record 

belies this contention of Ld.Defence Counsel. No doubt, all the 

documents ie. Application Ex.PW.12/B seeking issuance of 

Marine Policy ; Letter to the consignor on behalf of the insured 

dated 02.01.1998 ; Claim Form Ex.PW.8/4 ; Letter of 

intimation of loss Ex.PW.8/5 ; Policy Ex.PW.8/D ; as well as 

the Voucher Ex.PW.8/A ; bears signatures of accused Rajpal C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.108 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 186. Ld.Defence Counsel in order to defend accused 

Munish Yadav had contended that this document was not on 

record at the time when the initial investigations were made by 

the Vigilance Department of the Company. He contended that 

the same was wrongly and falsely brought on record by the 

investigating officer in order to falsely implicate accused 

Munish Yadav in the present case. 187. I do not find any merits in this contention of C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.109 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 188. It is further contended by Ld.Defence Counsel 

that signatures of Munish Yadav on this GR Ex.PW.29/J were 

fraudulently obtained by the investigating officer while 

taking his specimen signatures during the course of 

investigations. Therefore, this document being forged by the 

investigating agency themselves, cannot be considered in 

evidence against accused Munish Yadav. 189. I do not find any merits in this contentions of 

Ld.Defence Counsels for 2 reasons. Firstly, on perusal of this 

document, it is apparent that the signatures of Manish Yadav 

are there as Proprietor of M/s M.S.Computers and C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.110 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 190. Had his signatures been fraudulently obtained 

by the IO during investigations as urged by Ld.Defence 

Counsel, then its placement with the seal of his firm should not 

have been such, as is there on this document. Further, no 

explanation has been furnished on behalf of the accused as to 

how seal of his firm also appears on this document alongside 

his signatures. Secondly, if signatures of accused Munish 

Yadav were obtained fraudulently by IO, then accused would 

have lodged a protest or complaint against the same, but that 

was not to be. 191. In view thereof, I do not find any merits in 

this contention of Ld.Defence Counsel, which appears to have C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.111 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 192. Next limb of argument advanced by 

Ld.Defence Counsel was that merely on the basis of report 

given by the handwriting expert Ex.PW.27/X­2, accused 

Munish Yadav cannot be fastened with any criminal 

liability. He contended that investigating officer during the 

course of investigations cannot obtain specimen signatures of 

accused without permission of the Court. He contended that 

deposition of IO ie. PW­29 S.K.Kashyap is silent as to whether 

he had taken any permission from the Court before taking 

specimen signatures of accused Munish Yadav, therefore the 

same cannot be used for any purpose whatsoever, including for 

getting the same compared with questioned signatures. 193. He in order to substantiate this contention of 

his, had relied upon the law laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court 

in case titled "Sukvinder Singh vs. State of Punjab" C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.112 of 188 194. He contended relying upon these judgments 

that even the Court cannot order for giving specimen 

signatures to the accused during the course of investigations. 

Therefore, the reports of the expert PW­27 i.e. Ex/PW.27/X­2 

and Ex.PW.27/X­5 are not admissible and cannot be relied 

upon against accused Munish Yadav. Ld.Defence Counsel had 

contended that by asking for specimen signatures and 

obtaining them under compulsion, accused cannot be made a 

witness against himself. 195. I have perused the deposition of PW­29 

S.K.Kashyap including his cross examination conducted on 

behalf of accused Munish Yadav. It is apparent on perusal of 

same that PW­29 during his examination in chief recorded on C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.113 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 27/X­5, overboard. 196. I do not find any merits in this contention of 

Ld. Defence Counsel as merely by taking the specimen 

signatures of an accused person during the course of 

investigations, the Investigating officer can by no stretch of 

imagination be held as asking him to stand as a witness 

against himself. Scientifically it is established that the 

impression of finger prints and handwriting of any 

individual does have such intrinsic qualities which no one 

can willfully change. The use of specimen signatures / 

handwriting of a person becomes important for any C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.114 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 197. The precedents relied upon by Ld. Defence 

Counsel in support of his contentions does not come to his 

rescue in view of the law laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court in Rabindra Kumar Pal @ Dara Singh Vs. Republic of 

India , reported as 2011 (2) SCC 490. This judgment delivered 

by Hon'ble Apex Court is the latest judgment on this aspect 

whereas the precedent relied upon by Ld. Defence Counsel in 

Sukhbir's Case (Supra) is of the year 1995. 198. In the other judgment relied upon by Ld. 

Defence Counsel of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi, the law laid 

down by Hon'ble Apex Court in Dara Singh 's Case (Supra) was 

not considered as the said judgment was not quoted before C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.115 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 199. In Dara Singh 's Case Hon'ble Supreme Court 

of India had taken into consideration the 11­Judge Bench 

decision in case titled " The State of Bombay Vs. Kathi Kalu 

Oghad & Ors. " reported as AIR 1961 SC 1808. It is pertinent 

to reproduce the observation made by Hon'ble Apex Court in Dara Singh 's case (Supra) which are as under:­

 "Another question which we have to consider is 
 whether the Police (CBI) had the power under the Cr.P.C . to take specimen signatures and writing of A3 
 for examination by the expert. It was pointed out that 
 during investigation, even the Magistrate cannot 
 direct the accused to give his specimen signatures on 
 the asking of the police and only in the amendment of 
 the Cr.P.C . In 2005, power has been given to the 
 Magistrate to direct any person including the accused 
 to give his specimen signatures for the purpose of 
 investigation. Hence, it was pointed out that taking of 
 his signatures / writings being per se illegal, the 
 report of the expert cannot be used as evidence against 
 him. To meet the above claim, learned Addl. Solicitor 
 General heavily relied on a 11­Judge Bench decision of 
 this Court in The State of Bombay Vs. Kathi Kalu 
 Oghad & Ors. , (1962) 3 SCR 10 = AIR 1961 SC 1808. 
 This larger Bench was constituted in order to re­
 examine some of the propositions of law laid down by C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.116 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 4. ................. The main question which arises for 
 determination in this appeal is whether a direction 
 given by a Court to an accused person present in Court 
 to give his specimen writing and signature for the 
 purpose of comparison under the provisions of section 
 73 of the Indian Evidence Act infringes the 
 fundamental right enshrined in Article 20 (3) of the 
 Constitution. 10. ............... Furnishing evidence" in the latter sense 
 could not have been within the contemplation of the 
 Constitution­makers for the simple reason that - 
 though they may have intended to protect an accused 
 person from the hazards of self­incrimination, in the 
 light of the English Law on the subject - they could not C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.117 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 11. .............. When an accused person is called upon 
 by the Court or any other authority holding an 
 investigation to give his finger impression or signature 
 or a specimen of his handwriting, he is not giving any 
 testimony of the nature of a 'personal testimony'. The 
 giving of a 'personal testimony' must depend upon his 
 volition. He can make any kind of statement or may 
 refuse to make any statement. But his finger 
 impressions or his handwriting, in spite of efforts at 
 concealing the true nature of it by dissimulation cannot 
 change their intrinsic character. Thus, the giving of 
 finger impressions or of specimen writing or of 
 signatures by an accused person, though it may 
 amount to furnishing evidence in the larger sense, is 
 not included within the expression 'to be a witness'. 12. .................. A specimen handwriting or signature 
 or finger impressions by themselves are no testimony at 
 all, being wholly innocuous because they are 
 unchangeable except in rare cases where the ridges of 
 the fingers or the style of writing have been tampered 
 with. They are only materials for comparison in order 
 to lend assurance to the Court that its inference based 
 on other pieces of evidence is reliable. They are neither C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.118 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- Judgement in the matter of:- Case law has gone beyond this strict literal 
 interpretation of the expression which may now 
 bear a wider meaning, namely, bearing 
 testimony in Court or out of Court by a person 
 accused of an offence, orally or in writing. 7. To bring the statement in question within the 
 prohibition of Article 20 (3) , the person accused 
 must have stood in the character of an accused 
 person at the time he made the statement. It is 
 not enough that he should become an accused, 
 any time after the statement has been made."

 In view of the above principles, the procedure 
 adopted by the investigating agency, analyzed 
 and approved by the trial Court and confirmed 
 by the High Court, cannot be faulted with." C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.120 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- There was no suggestion from the accused to PW­29 

S.K.Kashyap, that he was forced by him being Investigating 

Officer to give specimen handwriting and signatures. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.121 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- PW­27/X­2 & Ex. PW­27/X­5. Mere denial of these reports on 

the part of accused that too during the course of arguments is 

not sufficient to discard the same. More particularly when on 

bare perusal of the specimen signatures of accused Munish 

Yadav on Ex. PW­27/G (S­133 to S­155) and comparing it with 

the signatures appearing on G.R. Ex.PW.29/J, the similarities 

between the two are so apparent which leads to the only 

inference that it was him, who had signed copy of the said 

G.R., which as per the Claim Form Ex.PW.8/A as held by me 

hereinbefore, was submitted with Insurance Company for the 

purposes of processing of claim on 10.02.1998. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.124 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- He contended that Munish Yadav, at insistence of his father 

DW­4 and uncle of Rajpal Yadav DW­6, had returned the 

amount so deposited in his bank account to Rajpal Yadav. He 

contended that at that time, Munish Yadav was not aware that C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.125 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- Judgement in the matter of:- 30,000/­. If the story sought to be putforth by accused Munish C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.131 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 2,32,000/­, only a sum of Rs.1,74,000/­ was got released through 

2 cheques and the remaining amount remained with accused 

Munish Yadav. Thus, this contention of Ld.Defence Counsel 

that no pecuniary advantage was caused to accused Munish 

Yadav, is devoid of any merits. The same stands rejected 

accordingly. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.133 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- The said claim being on the basis of false and forged documents 

which were submitted by the insured with NIC knowing or 

having reasons to believe the same to be forged ones. 224. Sh.Ravinder Chadha, Advocate, Ld.Defence 

Counsel for accused Munish Yadav had contended that there is 

no evidence on record that it was his client who had forged 

Ex.PW.29/J, the copy of GR of M/s K.R.Golden Transport 

Corporation. 225. I do find substance in this contention of 

Ld.Defence Counsel. Although as held by me hereinabove that 

copy of GR Ex.PW.29/J is a forged document which was C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.134 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 226. Prosecution however has been able to 

establish that accused Munish Yadav was member of the 

conspiracy. Further, he had submitted a copy of a fake / forged 

GR Ex.PW.29/J knowing or having reasons to believe the same 

to be forged one and used it as genuine for getting a claim and 

cheated NIC by causing wrongful gain to himself and wrongful 

loss to NIC.  Case qua accused P.C.MOHAN :­ 227. Prosecution case as per the evidence which has 

come up on record is that pursuant to letter from insured Ex. 

PW­8/5, accused V.P.Pandhi had appointed M/s Railway Claims C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.135 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 228. The claim file contains the "tracers report" Ex. 

PW­24/A dated 16.03.1998. 229. Although accused P.C.Mohan in his defence 

has stated that the report Ex. PW­24/A was not submitted by 

him with NIC, but the version which through deposition of 

prosecution witnesses has come up on record, leads me to infer 

otherwise. 230. Prosecution had examined one Jitender 

Tripathi, who was earlier working with accused P.C.Mohan as 

PW­24. The factum of his working with him is admitted by 

accused P.C.Mohan in his statement under section 313 Cr.PC C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.136 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 231. PW­24 during the course of his deposition had 

stated that having worked with accused P.C.Mohan he is 

conversant with writing and signatures of P.C.Mohan. He 

deposed that the words "Confidential" and "Without Prejudice" 232. This fact is not disputed by accused P.C.Mohan 

as nothing has been put on his behalf to PW­24 during cross 

examination that writing at points X1 & X2 on Ex. PW­24/A as 

well as on Ex. PW­24/B are not of accused P.C.Mohan. Rather 

during cross examination of IO PW­29 S.K.Kashyap, a C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.137 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 233. Another suggestion given by accused 

P.C.Mohan to PW­3 A.K.Seth during his cross examination that 

by submitting a report with the insurance company, no rules 

have been violated, leads to the conclusion that it was he who 

had submitted the report Ex. PW­24/A dated 16.03.1998. Had 

it been not him, then there was no occasion with him to write 

and prepare the document Ex. PW­24/B giving details of 

expenses incurred on survey / tracing, which admittedly is in 

his handwriting. Further there was no occasion with him to 

submit bill Ex. PW­29/L for survey / tracing, with the 

company. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.138 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 234. Although he, by leading defence evidence 

through his wife DW­1 had tried to put forth that it was his ex­

employee PW­24 who probably got this report filed, but that 

attempt of his appears to me, to be an afterthought. Had 

there been any semblance in the same, he would have cross 

examined PW­24 on this aspect. But that was not to be. 235. Further the contention of accused P.C.Mohan 

that page numbers 2 & 3 of report Ex. PW­24/A were changed 

subsequently does not seems to be plausible. Bare perusal of 

the three pages of Ex. PW­24/A reveals that the same are 

written using same typewriter and at one point of time. 

Further the suggestion which accused had given to IO PW­29, 

that these two pages were changed before the file was handed 

over to him, was neither given to PW­3 A.K.Seth nor to PW­4 & 

PW­6 who were members of the Vigilance team of NIC during 

the course of their cross examination. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.139 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 236. The report Ex. PW­24/A and the bill Ex. 

PW­29/L are on the letter heads of M/s Railway Claims Settlers 

of which accused P.C.Mohan is the Proprietor which fact has 

been proved on record by PW­25 Harsharan witness from 

Canara Bank, Shankar Nagar where P.C.Mohan had opened 

an account in the name of his firm as its Proprietor vide 

account opening form Ex. PW­25/A and Ex. PW­25/C. 237. No explanation has been adduced on record 

by accused P.C.Mohan as to how his letter heads were used in 

report Ex. PW­24/A and bill Ex. PW­29/L, if it was not him who 

filed the same with NIC. 238. In view of above evidence which has come up 

on record, it is evident that it was accused P.C.Mohan who 

had filed report Ex. PW­24/A alongwith Ex. PW­24/B and bill 

Ex. PW­29/L with NIC. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.140 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 239. In the report Ex. PW­24/A, which is on the 

letter head of M/s Railway Claim Settlers it is stated that their 

representative for tracing the consignment left for Hyderabad 

and went to office of carrier at Bashir Bagh and met one Mr. 

Ramaiya who confirmed that the said consignment was 

despatched from Hyderabad and was detained at Agra for want 

of Form No. 35. It is further stated that due to efforts of their 

representative and carrier, consignment was despatched to 

Delhi and out of 12 boxes 10 were delivered to consignee and 

two cases were short for which carrier agreed to issue shortage 

certificate either to consignee or consignor. It is stated in the 

report Ex. PW­24/A that loss has resulted due to non­delivery 

of 2 boxes of consignment and the insurer may settle the claim 

with the insured by paying claim to the extent of Rs.2,32,000/­. 240. Considering the facts already proved that 

neither the consignor nor the transporter were in existence, 

thus there was no question of any consignment being C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.141 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 241. As per Ex. PW­24/B submitted alongwith the 

report representative of accused P.C.Mohan left Delhi for 

Hyderabad on 16.02.1998. If the facts stated in the report Ex. 

PW­24/A are taken to be correct, he would have met the 

representative of carrier only after 16.02.1998 when on being 

asked for "shortage certificate" carrier agreed to issue the same 

to either the consignee or the consignor. Meaning thereby that 

by 16.02.1998 no "Shortage Certificate" was issued by the 

carrier. Thus, the claim form Ex. PW­8/4 submitted with the 

Insurance company and received by accused G.C.Gupta vide his 

endorsement at point 'A' on Ex. PW­8/4 dated 10.02.1998 by no 

stretch of imagination could have "shortage carrier certificate" 242. This further fortifies that the report Ex. 

PW­24/A is a false report, submitted by accused P.C.Mohan. 

Had he not been in concert with the co­conspirators, there was 

no need for him to do so. He did that to perform his part of the 

conspiracy. 243. The empanelled tracer / surveyor of the 

Insurance Company is under a solemn duty to submit a true 

and actual report to the Insurance Company knowing fully 

well that it is on the basis of his report that the Insurance 

Company shall act for processing the claim lodged with it and 

thus this report can be considered as a valuable security. 244. In view of above, the argument raised by 

accused P.C.Mohan that the report of tracer / surveyor is not 

binding and Insurance Company need not rely on the same for 

settling a claim, to my mind is devoid of any logic and merits C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.143 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 245. If such a proposition is accepted then the same 

shall lead to hazardous results. The empanelled surveyor / 

tracer would start giving reports sitting in the confines and 

comfort of their respective offices and claiming their fees 

without lending any concrete support to the Insurance 

Company for disposal of claims lodged with it. The tracer / 

surveyor are supposed to act in a bonafide manner while 

performing their assigned roles. 246. This has led me to the next contention urged 

by accused P.C.Mohan on legal aspect. He contended that if 

the report Ex. PW­24/A is considered to have been given by 

him, then the same does not fall within the ambit of the 

definition "False document" as defined in Section 464 of 

I.P.C., so no case for offence under section 468 IPC is made out 

against him, with which he has been charged. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.144 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 247. For the purposes of appreciating this 

contention of accused P.C.Mohan, it is pertinent to peruse section 468 , 463 & 464 of Indian Penal Code which are 

reproduced as under :­ 

 SECTION ­ 468 I.P.C . : Forgery for purpose 
 of cheating ­ Whoever commits forgery, 
 intending that the document or electronic 
 record forged shall be used for the purpose 
 of cheating, shall be punished with 
 imprisonment of either description for a 
 term which may extend to seven years, and 
 shall also be liable to fine. SECTION ­ 463 I.P.C . : Forgery­ 
 Whoever commits forgery, makes any false 
 documents or false electronic record or part 
 of a document or electronic record, with 
 intent to cause damage or injury, to the 
 public or to any person, or to support any 
 claim or title, or to cause any person to part 
 with property, or to enter into any express or 
 implied contract, or with intent to commit 
 fraud or that fraud may be committed, 
 commits forgery. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.145 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 248. Relying upon this definition of "Making false 

document", the accused P.C.Mohan had contended that it was 

not the case of the prosecution that he made this document i.e. 

report Ex. PW­24/A with intention of causing it to be believed 

that this document was made by the authority of a person by 

whom or by whose authority accused / tracer knew that it was 

not made and therefore document i.e. survey / tracing report 

did not amount to forgery. 249. It is true that on the face of it document i.e. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.147 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 250. However, there is another angle to this 

argument and according to the learned Public Prosecutor 

Illustration (h) of Section 464 and Explanation 1 coupled with 

Illustration (e) thereof, squarely and directly bring the case 

within the ambit of Section 463 and 464 of Indian Penal 

Code. 251. I have considered the rival submissions and 

have perused all the illustrations appended to Section 464 IPC. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.148 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 252. It is relevant to peruse illustration (h) and (e), 

as well as Explanation 1 appended to section 464 IPC, the same 

is delineated as under :­

 Illustration (h) :­
 "(h) A sells and conveys an estate to Z. A 
 afterwards, in order to defraud Z of his 
 estate, executes a conveyance of the same 
 estate to B, dated six months earlier than 
 the date of the conveyance to Z, intending it 
 to be believed that he had conveyed the 
 estate to B before he conveyed it to Z. A has 
 committed forgery." Explanation 1. ­ A man's signature of his 
 own name may amount to forgery. Illustration (e) is as under :­
 "(e) A draws a bill of exchange on himself 
 in the name of B without B's authority, 
 intending to discount it as a genuine bill 
 with a banker and intending to take up the 
 bill on its maturity. Here, as A draws the 
 bill with intent to deceive the banker by 
 leading him to suppose that he had security 
 of B, and thereby to discount the bill, A is 
 guilty of forgery." C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.149 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 253. It is evident from Illustration (h) that "A" in 

order to defraud "Z" executed a conveyance of the same estate 

to "B" which was anti­dated by six months from the date of 

conveyance in favour of "Z" and this was done by "A" intending 

it to be believed that he had conveyed the estate to "B" before 

he conveyed it to "Z" and this has been held to be forgery, as 

intended by the Legislature. 254. From this Illustration, it is clear that a man 

can be said to have committed "forgery of document" even if 

he himself, is the author and signatory of the document. This 

Illustration does not require that he should sign a document 

making it to be believed that somebody else has signed the 

same or that he was authorized to sign the same on somebody 

else's behalf. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.150 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 255. Explanation 1 makes it further clear that the 

man's signature in his own name may amount to forgery and 

from Illustration (e) thereof, it is clear that writing a 

promissory note by "A" in the circumstances given in the 

Illustration is considered as an act of forgery under the first 

head of the definition given in section 464 of I.P.C. 256. From these two Illustrations (h) and (e) 

and Explanation 1, it is clear that legislature intended to 

cover such cases, under the offence of forgery whenever the 

person, who had created a document even though the document 

was made by himself, in his own name and signed in his own 

name. These two illustrations coupled with Explanation 1, 

therefore, make the scope of the definition "Making a false 

document" very wide. 257. In view thereof, I do not find any merits in 

this argument of accused P.C.Mohan that the survey / tracing C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.151 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 258. Prosecution thus has been able to establish 

that accused P.C.Mohan was one of the co­conspirators, and in 

order to perform his assigned role in the conspiracy, had forged 

the report Ex.PW.24/A, with intention to induce NIC to pass 

the claim in favor of M/s M.S.Computers and Communications. 259. As per the deposition of PW­3 A.K.Seth, PW­8 

Madan Lal Meena and PW­12 Gopa Sahu M/s Pooja 

International was appointed as recovery agent. In view of 

deposition of PW­8 & PW­12 coupled with receipt dated 

29.05.1998 the documents were collected by representative of 

M/s Pooja International for having the recovery affected from 

the transporter / carrier. Further as per receipt dated C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.152 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- Judgement in the matter of:- Brijesh Kumar Sharma of State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur 

has proved on record that the Banker's cheque no. 808339 Ex. 

PW­19/D was got prepared from their bank against application 

form Ex. PW­19/C and paid vide cheque Ex. PW­19/B. 264. Further prosecution through deposition of 

PW­20 Sh.P.K.Aggarwal & PW­28 Inspector B.M.Pandit proved 

that during investigations specimen signatures of accused 

Arvind Kumar Sharma were taken which he had voluntarily 

given. This fact was also not disputed by accused when C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.154 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 265. Further, through deposition of IO PW­30 

R.P.Kaushal coupled with deposition of PW­27 Mohinder 

Singh, the Government Examiner and his reports Ex. 

PW­27/X­2 & PW­27/X­5 it has been proved on record that this 

Banker's cheque of recovery amount was got prepared by 

accused Arvind Kumar Sharma, which he deposited with the 

Insurance Company. Meaning thereby that the Banker's 

cheque of recovery amount favouring the Insurance Company 

did not come from the transporter / carrier from whom it should 

have come. 266. In order to defend accused Arvind Kumar 

Sharma, Sh. R.K.Kohli, Advocate had contended that this is a 

regular practice that the recovery agents used to negotiate 

with the carrier on behalf of the Insurance Companies for more C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.155 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 267. No doubt, Ld. Defence Counsel had put such 

suggestion to the prosecution witnesses more particularly to 

PW­12 Gopa Sahu and Investigating Officers i.e. PW­29 & 

PW­30, but none of them admitted that any such rule or 

procedure was in existence or practice. Nor any such rule or 

policy was brought on record by Ld. Defence Counsel to 

confront the prosecution witnesses or to prove in defence 

evidence. Rather PW­3 A.K.Seth specifically stated during his 

cross examination that recovery should come from the 

transporter. 268. The contention sought to be raised by Ld. 

Defence Counsel seems to be preposterous. Had any such 

practice or policy in existence or prevalence the same would C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.156 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 269. In view thereof, I do not find any merits in 

this contention of Ld. Defence Counsel. The recovery, if any, 

had to come from transporter / carrier straight in the name of 

the Insurance Company. Recovery Agent acts as no more than 

a facilitator or mediator between the Insurance Company and 

the carrier against his remuneration i.e. Recovery Fee, which 

he gets from the Insurance Company. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.157 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 270. In the present case, as held by me hereinbefore 

that M/s K.R.Golden Transport Corporation, was not in 

existence at the given address, thus there was no occasion 

with the recovery agent, to negotiate with a non­existent 

entity and to have the recovery affected from thin air. 271. This act / conduct on the part of Arvind Kumar 

Sharma leads to only one inference that whatever he had 

done the same is owing to the nexus he had with the insured. 

Had that been not so, then he could have very well submitted a 

report with the Insurance Company stating actual facts that no 

recovery could be affected as no such transporter was in 

existence. But that was not to be. As he had to perform his 

role in the larger conspiracy. His act of doing so, in terms of Section 10 of Evidence Act makes it explicit that he was part of 

the conspiracy. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.158 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 272. His nexus with co­accused Raj Pal Yadav 

(since expired) who as per material on record had signed and 

submitted most of the documents in the claim file Ex. PW­3/2 

in support of the claim form Ex. PW­8/4 is further fortified by 

the prosecution through deposition of PW­18 

Sh.S.N.Chaudhary from Oriental Bank of Commerce. This 

witness has proved on record that accused Raj Pal Yadav as 

Proprietor of M/s Mark Computers had opened a bank account 

with them vide account opening form Ex. PW­18/C, which was 

introduced by M/s Pooja International owned by accused 

Arvind Kumar Sharma. 273. This has brought me down to the last 

contention urged by Sh.R.K.Kohli, Ld. Advocate in defence of 

accused Arvind Kumar Sharma. It is submitted by Ld. Defence 

Counsel relying on cross examination of prosecution witnesses 

conducted by him, that recovery agent is appointed once the 

claim is settled and approved by the insurance company. He C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.159 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 274. This contention of Ld. Defence Counsel though 

has some merits but the same are not sufficient to take the 

acts and actions of recovery agent outside the scope and 

purview of the claim, which once registered does not culminates 

on its release by the Insurance Company to the claimant / 

insured. The claim file remains alive till the Insurance 

Company settles its dues with the transporter / carrier. This 

fact is evident as the receipt of recovery agent Ex. PW­8/D­1 

and the voucher Ex. PW­29/K vide which recovery amount was 

deposited, were part of the claim file Ex. PW­3/2. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.160 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 275. Further the conspiracy as emanating from the 

physical manifestations of its different players as is being 

proved on record by the prosecution was not to culminate at the 

release of claim amount. It was also the object of it that the 

claim file once for all is closed by the Insurance Company after 

accepting whatever little amount which is deposited with it, in 

the name of recovery. 276. Had that not been the object and had accused 

Arvind Kumar Sharma acted in a bonafide manner as recovery 

agent, then he after trying to locate the transporter, who as 

held by me hereinabove was non­existent, could have reported 

to the Insurance Company that no recovery could be affected. 

There was no other reason but for one, with him to have paid 

Rs.16,000/­ to the Insurance Company from his own account. 

That one and only reason is obvious which is his nexus with 

the claimant / insured. This conduct of accused Arvind Kumar C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.161 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 277. Prosecution thus has been able to establish on 

record, that accused Arvind Kumar Sharma being party to the 

conspiracy, had performed his assigned role and cheated the 

Insurance Company by inducing it to believe that transporter 

was in existence, by depositing the recovery amount claiming 

the same has been recovered by him from the alleged 

transporter.  Case qua accused K.V.JUNEJA:­ 278. It is contended by Ld.Public Prosecutor that 

accused K.V.Juneja vide receipt dated 29.05.1998 which is at 

Page No.24 of the Claim File Ex.PW.3/2 had collected the 

documents on behalf of M/s Pooja International from National 

Insurance Company. He tried to establish that signatures on 

this acknowledgment receipt are of K.V.Juneja, on the basis of C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.162 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 279. On the other hand, Sh.R.K.Kohli, Ld.Defence 

Counsel contended that apart from receiving documents on 

behalf of M/s Pooja International, nothing else was done by 

this accused to connect him with others. 280. No doubt, from the deposition of IO PW­30 

R.P.Kaushal and PW­35 B.S.Kanojia, the independent witness, 

prosecution had established that specimen signatures of 

K.V.Juneja were taken. The same were examined by the 

expert witness PW­27 Mohinder Singh vis­a­vis the questioned 

signatures on the receipt at Page No.24 of file Ex.PW.3/2. The 

same as per the report of expert Ex.PW.27/X­2 are attributed to 

K.V.Juneja. However, this evidence of prosecution is 

superfluous as accused K.V.Juneja had not disputed his 

signatures on this receipt. He has admitted having received C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.163 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 281. However, as per cross examination of PW­3, 

PW­4 and PW­6 conducted by Sh.R.K.Kohli, Advocate, merely 

the appointment of recovery agent is not illegal and once 

appointed, documents are also handed over to the recovery 

agent or his representative. Thus, merely because K.V.Juneja 

had collected the documents on behalf of M/s Pooja 

International, he has not committed any illegality. 282. Apart from that, nothing else is attributed 

against this accused by any of the prosecution witness. In view 

thereof, I do find force in the contentions of Sh.R.K.Kohli, 

Advocate, Ld.Defence Counsel for accused K.V.Juneja that he 

had not done any act to cheat the insurance company or any 

overt act in furtherance of any conspiracy. No act or action is 

attributed by the prosecution evidence, which has come up on C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.164 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- It is further stated that it is not an illegality to receive any 

letter or Dak (post) by the accused persons and taking action on 

it. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.165 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- Judgement in the matter of:- Endorsement on Ex.PW.12/B of this policy number is in hands 

of G.C.Gupta which he had made on 04.12.1997 itself. 289. How G.R. Number and Date happens to be 

there on the policy issued on same date when the proposal 

form, on which policy was issued, distinctly states that 

G.R.Number shall be intimated at the time of despatch. 

Further, how G.R.Number of a future date could have been 

mentioned on the policy issued on 04.12.1997. By no stretch of 

imagination, it can be accepted that any transporter / carrier 

can issue a G.R., of a future date. 290. Had it not been for the complicity with the 

insured, accused G.C.Gupta, a senior officer of NIC would not C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.168 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 291. Further, from the deposition of PW­8 and 

PW­12 coupled with perusal of claim file Ex.PW.3/2, it is 

evident that letter Ex.PW.8/5 regarding intimation of loss was 

directly received by accused V.P.Pandhi, who vide his 

endorsement at Point B, appointed M/s Railway Claim Settlers, 

for tracing. 292. Bare perusal of this letter points towards the 

fact that, the public servants who are accused herein, were 

acting in collusion and connivance with the co­conspirators. 

This letter bears signatures of Rajpal Yadav, who has put the 

date as 15.01.1998. However, on this letter of 15.01.1998, 

accused V.P.Pandhi had appointed 'tracer' on 12.01.1998 vide 

his endorsement at Point B. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.169 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 293. Prosecution has been able to further magnify 

this complicity amongst the accused persons. As PW­12 Gopa 

Sahu deposed that this letter was marked to her, who then 

prepared a letter for M/s Railway Claim Settlers Ex.PW.12/A, 

vide her endorsement at Point D, but the same could not be 

sent for want of address, however a copy thereof was sent to 

insured. 294. Perusal of her endorsement at Point D on 

Ex.PW.12/B and the letter prepared by her Ex.PW.12/A, 

reveals the date to be 29.01.1998. Meaning thereby, that M/s 

Railway Claim Settlers could not have known about their 

appointment as "tracers" in this case prior to 29.01.1998. 

However endorsement at Point C on Ex.PW.8/5 reveals that 

papers for "tracing" were received for and on behalf of M/s 

Railway Claim Settlers on 12.01.1998 itself. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.170 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 295. When and where from accused P.C.Mohan of 

M/s Railway Claim Settlers would have got the information on 

12.01.1998 itself about their appointment as 'tracers', that too 

on a letter which is dated 15.01.1998, points a definite finger 

towards the association of all the co­conspirators / accused 

persons. 296. Next pointer towards the association of the 

accused persons is glorified on joint perusal of report dated 

16.03.1998 Ex.PW.24/A and the details of expenses incurred 

Ex.PW.24/B of accused P.C.Mohan, on one hand and the claim 

form Ex.PW.8/4 submitted by M/s M.S.Computers and 

Communications and received by accused G.C.Gupta. 297. It is evident on perusal of Ex.PW.24/B that 

representative of M/s Railway Claim Settlers had left Delhi for 

Hyderabad to make inquiries from the transporter / carrier on 

16.02.1998. The report Ex.PW.24/A states that on being asked C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.171 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 68,000 = Rs.3,79,875/­. However, accused G.C.Gupta while 

approving the claim has failed to take into consideration this 

simple calculation error. This omission on his part was 

deliberate for obvious reasons of his complicity with the co­

conspirators. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.173 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- However, evidence on record reveals that all these 

correspondence were directly received by accused G.C.Gupta 

and V.P.Pandhi. 303. No doubt, PW­3 , PW­4 and PW­7 during the 

course of their cross examination, had admitted that there is no 

irregularity or directly receiving a Dak by Incharge / Senior 

Officer, Heading the Branch. But, this process should have 

been an exception. In the present case, all these 

correspondence, directly landed in the hands of accused public 

servants, who then had given definite instructions to their 

subordinate officers for processing them. This leads to C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.174 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 304. Apart from above, accused G.C.Gupta by 

accepting the recovery of Rs.16,000/­ vide receipt Ex.PW.8/D­1 

coupled with voucher Ex.PW.29/K from the recovery agent 

without conforming as to whether it has come from the 

transporter / carrier or not, closed the file by putting the final 

nail in the coffin of the present case, probably with the hope 

and intention that no­one will get to know of what transpired 

between them as officers of National Insurance Company and 

the co­conspirators which led to passing of this claim. 305. As responsible officers of National Insurance 

Company, it was expected of them being obligatory on their 

part, to have acted in the best interest of the company. But 

that was not to be. They not only obviated what basic 

standard of care and caution they were expected to adopt while C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.175 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 306. Had there been no involvement of these 

accused public servants, then the "rule of prudence" demand 

that they should have scrutinized the documents / letters 

sought to be placed on record in support of the claim by the 

claimant, which would have saved National Insurance 

Company from the wrongful loss. 307. But that was not to be. 308. This conduct of accused public servants clearly 

reveals that there was prior meeting of minds between them 

and Munish Yadav , Arvind Kumar Sharma and P.C.Mohan. 

The object of this conspiracy was to cheat National Insurance 

Company, by successfully passing and releasing the claim in C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.176 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 309. This has led me down to the next contention 

urged on behalf of accused public servants by Ld.Defence 

Counsels, that the investigating agency had been unfair and 

adopted "Pick and Choose Policy" to falsely implicate 

accused G.C.Gupta and V.P.Pandhi and exonerating other 

similarly situated officers. 310. Need of fair, honest, efficient and thorough 

investigations is the single most important factor which 

directly determines the fulfillment of the object for which 

various provisions of P.C.Act were brought on the Statute Book. 

Investigations lays the foundation on which arch of trial is 

erected. An important link, if missed by the investigating C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.177 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 311. An important link, if missed, could lead to 

hazardous results as time and resources spent on trial 

becomes irretrievable. Whether such evidence or link did not 

exist or intentionally skipped by the investigating agency 

however is required to be looked into. For that, I have 

considered the entire prosecution evidence, more particularly 

the deposition of three officers of the vigilance team of NIC and 

the report which formed the basis of complaint filed with CBI 

by PW K.Mahapatra. I have also considered the deposition of 

both the Investigating officers. There was no evidence against 

the other officers of NIC, who as per Ld.Defence Counsels for 

accused public servants, have performed similar roles. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.178 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 312. From the evidence which has come up on 

record as discussed hereinabove, prosecution has been able to 

establish nexus between the accused public servants only and 

their co­conspirator private persons. I do not see from 

material on record that the investigating agency had 

intentionally skipped evidence against other officers of NIC. 

Therefore, this contention of Ld.Defence Counsels that 

investigating agency had conducted the investigations in an 

unfair manner adopting "pick and chose policy" is turned 

down. 313. Sh.C.L.Gupta, Advocate, Ld.Defence Counsel 

relying upon the defence witness examined by them ie. DW­5 

Om Prakash, had contended that even the investigating 

agency during house search of accused G.C.Gupta did not find 

anything incriminating. He contended that the documents 

taken into possession during his house search were returned to 

the accused. Ld.Defence Counsel further augmented this C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.179 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 314. I have considered these contentions of 

Ld.Defence Counsel and have perused the defence evidence led 

on record. Merely because during house search of accused 

G.C.Gupta, investigating agency did not find documents worth­

relying to prove its case, does not by any way rules out the 

importance of the documentary evidence which has been 

relied upon and proved by the prosecution against accused. 

Further, merely because his department has revoked the 

suspension and re­instated the accused does not exonerates 

the accused from the criminal liability, if established on the 

basis of settled principles of adjudication of Criminal Justice 

System. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.180 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 315. In view thereof, I do not find any merits in 

this contention of Ld.Defence Counsel to exonerate accused 

G.C.Gupta on the basis of deposition of these two defence 

witnesses examined by them. The same is accordingly turned 

 down . 316. Last contention urged on behalf of the 

accused public servants, was that their actions and inactions 

does not constitute the offence under Prevention of Corruption 

Act as the same at best, can amount to misconduct. It is 

contended that this misconduct, by no stretch of imagination, 

can be termed as "criminal". 317. The word "misconduct" has been defined in 

Black's Law Dictionary, which reads as under:­ C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.181 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 318. The term "misconduct" implies wrong 

intention and not a mere error of judgement. The word 

misconduct is a relative term, and has to be construed with 

reference to the subject matter and the context wherein the 

term occurs, having regard to the scope of the Act or Statute 

which is being construed. Misconduct literally means wrong 

conduct or improper conduct. In usual parlance, misconduct 

means a transgression of some established and definite rule of 

action. 319. Section 13(1) (d) of the Prevention of 

Corruption Act, does not make any negligence or a plain and 

simple misconduct on the part of any public servant, a 

punishable offence. Hon'ble Apex Court in a catena of C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.182 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 320. The burden to prove affirmatively that accused 

by abusing his official position had obtained any pecuniary 

advantage either for himself or for any other person, lies on the 

prosecution. The prosecution on the basis of evidence led by it 

on record, has to satisfy the principal that all inculpatory facts, 

established on record must be inconsistent with the 

innocence of the accused and incapable of explanation of any 

other hypothesis than that of his guilt. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.183 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 321. In the backdrop of above, the analysis of 

evidence adduced by the prosecution during the course of trial, 

and observed by me hereinabove, in my considered opinion 

has led to an unerring certainty that accused G.C.Gupta and 

V.P.Pandhi, acting in­concert, with each other being public 

servants, had abused their official position as such and 

facilitated co­accused Munish Yadav, Proprietor of M/s 

M.S.Computers and Communications with aid and assistance 

of other two conspirators namely P.C.Mohan and Arvind 

Kumar Sharma, the tracer and recovery agent respectively, to 

get wrongful pecuniary advantage, by passing a claim on 

the basis of false and forged documents, thereby causing 

wrongful loss to NIC. 322. These actions and omissions of theirs, is 

nothing short of "criminal misconduct" as the same is laden 

with a dishonest intention, with which they had acted while 

dealing with the Claim file Ex.PW.3/2 and passing and C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.184 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 323. Consequently, from the material placed and 

proved on record by the prosecution, it is established that there 

was prior meeting of minds amongst all the accused persons 

except K.V.Juneja, who acting in­concert had hatched a 

conspiracy, the object of which was to obtain a Marine Claim 

in favor of M/s M.S.Computers and Communications, on the 

basis of false and forged documents. 324. Prosecution has been able to establish on 

record that all the accused had performed their assigned roles 

of commissions and omissions, in the process of achieving the 

object of conspiracy. Had there been no prior meeting of minds, 

then the accused persons would not have conducted C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.185 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 325. In view thereof, I do not find any merits in the 

contentions advanced by Ld.Counsels for the accused persons 

that the material on record is not sufficient to infer that there 

was no meeting of mind amongst the accused persons to carry 

out any illegal design. 326. The cumulative effect of the facts established 

on record by the prosecution which are inconsistent with the 

innocence of the accused persons and incapable of any 

explanation or any loopholes, other than guilt of the accused 

G.C.Gupta, V.P.Pandhi, Munish Yadav, Arvind Kumar 

Sharma and P.C.Mohan, I am of the considered opinion that 

apart from the offence of commission of criminal conspiracy 

to commit offences, the same are sufficient for proving 

substantive offences of criminal misconduct ; cheating 

forgery ; and submission of forged documents as C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.186 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 327. No offence could be established on record by 

the prosecution against accused K.V.Juneja. 328. In view thereof , I proceed to dispose off the 

present case as under:­

F I N A L V E R D I C T:­ 329. Having regards to the facts and circumstances 

and the discussions as delineated hereinabove:­ (a) Accused G.C.Gupta, V.P.Pandhi, Munish 
 Yadav, Arvind Kumar Sharma and P.C.Mohan, 
 stands convicted for offences punishable under 
 section 120B r/w section 420 , 468 and 471 I.P.C, read 
 with section 13(1)(d) & 13(2) of Prevention of 
 Corruption Act. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.187 of 188 Judgement in the matter of:- 330. Let all the convicts be heard on the point of 

sentence. Announced in the Open Court
On the 16 Day of October, 2014. th

 (KANWALJEET ARORA) 
 SPECIAL JUDGE : C.B.I. (P.C.ACT) 
 DWARKA COURTS, NEW DELHI. C.C.No: 31 / 2011 Page No.188 of 188