1. The present applications are filed seeking regular bail in FIR No.
 515/2024 dated 30.11.2024, registered at Police Station Najaf Garh for
 offences under Sections 8 / 20 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
 Substances Act, 1985 (' NDPS Act '). 2. Briefly stated, on 30.11.2024, on the basis of a secret
 information, a raiding party was constituted, and thereafter a raid was
 conducted at Plot No. 155, Krishna Vihar, Najafgarh, New Delhi. It is
 alleged that thereafter, the applicant Rishipal was caught coming out of
 the said plot with a white coloured plastic katta in his hand. Upon
 checking the said bag, the same was allegedly found to contain 5.050Kg
 of ganja. It is alleged that upon further search, two more white coloured
 bags were found in the said plot, and a recovery of approximately 20.93
 kg of ganja was effected. A video of the search and seizure was made
 on the e-Sakshya App. The applicant was thereafter arrested on
 30.11.2024. 3. During the course of investigation, the applicant Rishipal
 disclosed that the applicant Vakil Ray had supplied the contraband to
 him. Thereafter, during PC remand, the applicant Rishipal
 telephonically contacted the applicant Vakil Ray on the instructions of
 the police, and asked the applicant Vakil Ray to supply contraband to Signature Not Verified Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 2 of 15 21:02:15
 him. Thereafter, at the instance of the applicant Rishipal, a raid was
 conducted near Old Khaira Road, Near Petrol Pump, Najafgarh, Delhi
 and the applicant Vakil Ray along with co-accused Mukul were
 apprehended and were found to be holding separate bags. Upon the
 search of the bag in the possession of the applicant Vakil Ray, two
 packets wrapped in brown coloured tape were found, and a total
 recovery of 3.860 Kg of ganja was effected. Further, upon the search of
 the bag of co-accused Mukul, three packets wrapped in brown colour
 tape aggregating to 5.930 kg of ganja was recovered. The videography
 of the search and seizure was made on the e-Sakshya App. The applicant
 Vakil Ray and co-accused Mukul were thereafter arrested on
 03.12.2024. 4. The learned counsel for the applicant Rishipal submitted that the
 applicant Rishipal is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the
 present case. He submitted that the applicant Rishipal was living in a
 residential area and was caught around 11:20 AM in broad daylight,
 however, no independent witness was joined by the prosecution which
 casts a doubt on the story of the prosecution. 5. He submitted that the videography/photography of the alleged
 recovery was done by the police officials through e-Sakshya App. He
 submitted that an application was filed by the applicant Rishipal to
 provide a copy of the photography/videography of the alleged recovery,
 however, the same was dismissed with the contention that the same Signature Not Verified Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 3 of 15 21:02:15
 could not be preserved in pendrive or any other device and can only be
 played in court using login ID of the concerned Investigating Officer
 during the evidence. He submitted that the denial of a vital piece of
 evidence to the applicant would be a denial of fair trial. 6. He submitted that as per the version of the prosecution, the
 alleged recovery was effected from the rented premises of the applicant
 Rishipal, however, neither any rental agreement has been produced nor
 has the statement of the owner of the premises been recorded which
 renders the alleged recovery from the applicant Rishipal doubtful. He
 submitted that the landlord has not even been named as a witness which
 further casts a doubt on the case of the prosecution. 7. He submitted that while the applicant Rishipal was previously
 implicated in similar cases, he has been admitted on bail in all the other
 cases. He submitted that the applicant Rishipal was previously admitted
 on interim bail and he had not misused the liberty granted to him. 8. The learned counsel for the applicant Vakil Ray submitted that
 the applicant Vakil Ray is innocent and has been falsely implicated in
 the present case. He submitted that no actual recovery has been effected
 from the applicant and that the alleged recovery of 3.860 kg ganja has
 been planted. He submitted that in any event, the alleged recovery
 effected from the applicant Vakil Ray is only of intermediate quantity
 and in such circumstances, the bar under Section 37 of the NDPS Act
 does not apply. KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 4 of 15 21:02:15 9. He submitted that at the time of the alleged recovery from the
 applicant Vakil Ray, no independent witness was joined by the
 prosecution. He submitted that the alleged videography made by the
 prosecution is also not continuous which raises doubts regarding the
 recovery effected from the applicant Vakil Ray and the veracity of the
 case of the prosecution. 10. He submitted that it is the case of the prosecution that the
 applicant Rishipal called the applicant Vakil Ray during PC remand to
 supply the contraband, however, the same was not recorded or
 photographed which further raises suspicion on the recovery effected
 from the applicant Vakil Ray. He consequently submitted that in such
 circumstances, the possibility of false implication cannot be ruled out. 11. He submitted that the applicant Vakil Ray was previously granted
 interim bail by the learned Trial Court and he had not misused the
 liberty granted to him. 12. He submitted that co-accused Mukul who was apprehended
 along with the applicant Vakil Ray and from whose possession an
 alleged recovery of 5.93 kg of ganja had been effected has already been
 admitted on bail by the learned Trial Court vide order dated 09.06.2025.
 He consequently submitted that the applicant Vakil Ray be also
 enlarged on bail on the ground of parity. KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 5 of 15 21:02:15 13. Per Contra, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor vehemently
 opposed the grant of any relief to the applicants and submitted that the
 present case involves a recovery of commercial quantity of contraband,
 and consequently, the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act are
 attracted against the applicants. 14. He submitted that the recovery of contraband from the applicants,
 though not supported by independent witnesses, have been
 videographed using the e-Sakshya App. 15. He submitted that as per the CDRs, the applicants Rishipal and
 Vakil Ray exchanged approximately 220 phone calls in the three
 months preceding the date of the alleged incident. He further submitted
 that the applicant Rishipal has multiple antecedents and consequently
 submitted that the present applications be dismissed. Analysis 16. It is settled law that the Court, while considering the application
 for grant of bail, has to keep certain factors in mind, such as, whether
 there is a prima facie case or reasonable ground to believe that the
 accused has committed the offence; circumstances which are peculiar
 to the accused; likelihood of the offence being repeated; the nature and
 gravity of the accusation; severity of the punishment in the event of
 conviction; the danger of the accused absconding or fleeing if released
 on bail; reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being threatened; etc. Signature Not Verified Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 6 of 15 21:02:15 17. It is unequivocally established that, to be granted bail, the
 accused charged with offence under the NDPS Act must fulfil the
 conditions stipulated in Section 37 of the NDPS Act. Section 37 of the
 NDPS Act reads as under: section (1) are in addition to the limitations under the Code of
 Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), or any other law for the time
 being in force, on granting of bail." 18. The accusation in the present case is with regard to the recovery
 of commercial quantity of contraband. Once the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act are attracted, as provided under the Section, the Court
 can grant bail only when the twin conditions stipulated in Section
 37(1)(b) of the NDPS Act are satisfied in addition to the usual
 requirements for the grant of bail - (1) The court must be satisfied that
 there are reasonable grounds for believing that the person is not guilty
 of such offence; and (2) That the person is not likely to commit any
 offence while on bail. KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 7 of 15 21:02:15 19. It is the case of the prosecution that on the basis of a secret
 information, a raid was conducted at Plot No. 155, Krishna Vihar,
 Najafgarh, New Delhi alleged to be the rented premise of the applicant
 Rishipal, and a recovery of 25.980 kg of ganja was effected. It is also
 the case of the prosecution that during the course of the investigation,
 the applicant Rishipal disclosed that the contraband was supplied to him
 by the applicant Vakil Ray. It is further the case of the prosecution that
 during PC remand, the applicant Rishipal, on the instructions of the
 police, contacted the applicant Vakil Ray for supply of contraband.
 Subsequently, a raid was conducted at Old Khaira Road, Near Petrol
 Pump, Najafgarh, Delhi and the applicant Vakil Ray along with his
 accomplice Mukul were apprehended and a recovery of 3.860 Kg and
 5.930 Kg of ganja respectively was effected. 20. The learned counsel for the applicants have pressed the
 respective bail applications of the applicants primarily on the following
 grounds - failure to provide the video of the alleged search and seizure
 to applicant Rishipal/discrepancy in the video of the alleged search and
 seizure conducted which renders suspect the recoveries made from the
 applicants and the non-joinder of independent witnesses. 21. On the other hand, the bail applications of the applicants have
 been opposed on the ground that the present case involves a recovery of
 commercial quantity of contraband. It is further the case of the
 prosecution that there existed CDR connectivity between the applicants Signature Not Verified Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 8 of 15 21:02:15
 and as many as 220 calls were exchanged between the applicants in the
 three months preceding the date of the alleged incident. Prima facie doubt cast on the recoveries effected from the applicants 22. Insofar as the applicant Rishipal is concerned, it is contended that
 the applicant's right to fair trial has been impinged as he has not
 received a copy of the alleged videography of search and seizure. It is
 pointed out that as per the prosecution, the video has been uploaded on
 e-Sakshya App and it can only be played in the Court by using the login
 ID of the concerned IO. It is further argued that the recovery is rendered
 doubtful as the prosecution has not been able to make out a case that the
 plot from where the recovery was effected had been rented by the
 applicant Rishipal. Undisputedly, an applicant is ordinarily entitled to receive a copy of the
 evidence being used against him by the prosecution. It is unfathomable
 that an accused person is only allowed to view the videography of the
 search and seizure in the Court, when the same is undoubtedly an
 essential piece of evidence. The same would severely impede the
 accused from defending against any such evidence. Even so, in the
 opinion of this Court, the same alone may not ipso facto entitle the
 applicant to grant of bail. Be that as it may, this Court has perused the
 aforesaid recording uploaded on the e-Sakshya App. The video
 recording only shows a room in which the applicant is present, along
 with kattas of the recovered contraband. Prima facie, at this stage, it Signature Not Verified Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 9 of 15 21:02:15
 cannot be ascertained where the room is situated or whether the room is
 in the plot which was allegedly rented by the applicant Rishipal. Moreover, even though it is the case of the prosecution that the
 contraband has been recovered from a plot which had been taken on
 rent by the applicant Rishipal, no Rent Agreement has been produced
 and the owner of the said plot has also not been made a witness in order
 to corroborate the case of the prosecution. In the opinion of this Court,
 the aforesaid factors prima facie cast doubt on the recovery effected
 from the applicant Rishipal. 23. As far as the applicant Vakil Ray is concerned, it has been
 emphasised that his role in the present case is not as grave as that of
 applicant Rishipal and only intermediate quantity of contraband was
 recovered from him. It is argued that the video of the alleged recovery
 is not continuous and no audio/video recording was done of the alleged
 call made by the applicant Rishipal to the said applicant during PC
 remand, which ultimately led to the arrest of the applicant Vakil Ray. While the sheer lack of videography or photography may not be fatal to
 the case of the prosecution, in the facts of the present case, the same
 prima facie casts a shadow on the recovery. Pertinently, co-accused Mukul, who was apprehended along with
 applicant Vakil Ray, has been granted bail on the ground that only
 intermediate quantity of contraband was recovered from him. The Signature Not Verified Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 10 of 15 21:02:15
 applicant Vakil Ray's bail was only rejected due to his connectivity with
 the applicant Rishipal. While the probative value of the material on
 record will be tested during the course of trial, at this stage, when this
 Court has found the recoveries from both the applicants to be prima
 facie doubtful, bail cannot be denied to the applicants on account of
 mere telephonic conversations. 24. Much emphasis has also been placed by the applicants on the
 absence of any independent witnesses apart from the infirmities and
 grievances in respect of the respective video recordings. 25. It is not in doubt that the case of the prosecution cannot be
 rejected merely on account of the case being tethered on the testimonies
 of official witnesses and non-examination of independent witnesses or
 absence of appropriate photography and videography of the recovery.
 The same would not be fatal to the prosecution's case. It is also not in
 dispute that the reliance on the testimonies of official witnesses is
 sufficient to secure conviction once it is established that the police
 witnesses have no animosity against the accused person so as to falsely
 implicate him. The testimonies of the official witnesses cannot be
 disregarded merely on account of them being police officials. 26. It can however not be denied that the lack of independent
 witnesses and improper/doubtful photography or videography, in some
 circumstances, casts a shadow over the case of the prosecution. This
 Court in the case of Bantu v. State Govt of NCT of Delhi : 2024: DHC: 27. Pertinently, the recovery was effected from the applicant Rishipal
 on the basis of secret information and from the applicant Vakil Ray at a
 public place on a call made by the applicant Rishipal, when he was in
 PC remand. In both instances, the prosecution had ample opportunity to
 join independent witnesses. Despite the same, the prosecution has failed
 to do the same and only a mechanical explanation has been tendered by
 the prosecution that although efforts were made to join independent
 witnesses for both the recoveries, however, the persons nearby refused
 and left by citing reasons. While the truthfulness of the explanation
 rendered by the prosecution for non-joinder of independent witnesses
 as well as prima facie improper videography will be tested during the
 course of the trial, at this stage, the benefit of the same cannot be denied
 to the applicants. 28. Although it is argued that the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS
 Act are attracted against the applicants, at this stage, having found that Signature Not Verified Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 12 of 15 21:02:15
 prima facie doubt has been cast on the respective recoveries which are
 further rendered suspect due to absence of independent corroboration,
 the benefit of bail cannot be denied to the applicants. Pace of the trial 29. It is pertinent to note that the applicants Rishipal and Vakil Ray
 were arrested on 30.11.2024 and 03.12.2024 respectively. The charge
 sheet has been filed in the present case and the charges are yet to be
 framed. Additionally, the prosecution has cited 24 witnesses in the
 charge sheet. In such circumstances, there is no likelihood of the trial
 being completed in the near future. 30. The object of jail is to secure the appearance of the accused
 during the trial. The object is neither punitive nor preventive and the
 deprivation of liberty has been considered as a punishment. Antecedents of the applicants & their conduct on interim bail 31. It is argued on behalf of the prosecution that although the
 applicant Vakil Ray has no other criminal involvements, the applicant
 Rishipal has multiple criminal antecedents apart from the present case,
 with some involvements being for offences under the NDPS Act , and
 he is thus likely to commit similar offences if enlarged on bail. 32. Undisputedly, an accused being involved in multiple cases is a
 relevant factor to be kept in mind while considering an application for Signature Not Verified Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 13 of 15 21:02:15
 bail. However, the same cannot be a sole basis for refusal of prayer of
 bail where the applicant is otherwise entitled to relief on the facts of the
 case, especially when he has already been enlarged on bail in the other
 cases. 33. Pertinently, the applicants were also admitted on interim bail and
 it is not the case of the prosecution that they had misused the liberty
 during that period. Even otherwise, appropriate conditions can be
 imposed to allay any apprehension that the applicants will evade trial or
 tamper with the evidence. Conclusion 34. Therefore, in the opinion of this Court, the applicants have prima
 facie established a case for grant of bail. The applicants are directed to
 be released on bail on furnishing personal bonds for a sum of ₹25,000/-
 each with two sureties of the like amount each, subject to the
 satisfaction of the learned Trial Court, on the following conditions: 35. In the event of there being any FIR/ DD entry/ complaint lodged
 against any of the applicants, it would be open to the State to seek
 redressal by filing an application seeking cancellation of bail. 36. It is clarified that any observations made in the present order are
 for the purpose of deciding the present bail applications and should not
 influence the outcome of the Trial and also not be taken as an expression
 of opinion on the merits of the case. 37. The bail applications are allowed in the aforementioned terms. 38. A copy of this order be placed in both the matters. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 DECEMBER 03, 2025/DU Signature Not Verified Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR BAIL APPLN. 3217/2025 & BAIL APPLN. 3392/2025 Signing Date:03.12.2025 Page 15 of 15 21:02:15