The two applications for anticipatory bail being 2487 of

2025 and 2523 of 2025 pertain to the same Sessions Case No. 06 of

2025 presently pending before the Court of learned Judge, Bench - I,

City Sessions Court, Calcutta, arising out of CBI Case No.

RC0562021S0008 dated 01.09.2021, which, in turn, arose from

Narkeldanga Police Station Case No. 124/2021 under Sections

302 / 341 / 323 / 506 / 142 / 143 / 147 / 148 / 149 / 449 / 452 / 201 / 395 / 34 / 1 09 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code. As such, the applications were

heard together, one after the other. The same are being taken up

together for passing an order. 2. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

petitioners in CRM (A) 2487 of 2025 has submitted as follows. The

petitioner no. 1 is about 79 years old. He is an MLA, belonging to the

ruling political party of the State from the Beleghata Constituency.

The petitioner no. 2 is aged about 63 years. He is a Counsilor of the

Kolkata Municipal Corporation for the Ward No. 56 and the petitioner

no. 3 is a 36 years old Counsilor for the Ward No. 36 of the Kolkata

Municipal Corporation. The present petitioners are members of the

ruling political party of the State. The petitioner no. 1 was suffering

from his old age ailments and was under continuous medical

supervision. The instant case relates to alleged post poll violence after

the Assembly Elections of 2021. It is alleged that on 02.05.2021 in the

afternoon, 7 or 8 unknown persons including 3 or 4 women came to

the house of the original de facto complainant and asked for the

whereabouts of her son, the victim deceased. They alleged that the 3 victim had occupied many rooms of Railways. Altercations took place

and the miscreants started assaulting the informant. The younger son

of the complainant was brutally assaulted and the police thereafter

came to rescue the victim and admitted him to the hospital. He was

succumbed to his injuries. Initially, the Narkeldanga Police Station

investigated the case on 08.05.2021. The initial FIR and the

subsequent complaint were merged on 31.05.2021. Investigation was

transferred to the Homicide Squad. A charge sheet was submitted on

06.08.2021 against the 15 accused persons. Subsequently, a Public

Interest Litigation was filed regarding the alleged post poll violence.

Vide order dated 19.08.2021, the investigation was transferred to the

CBI, which took up the investigation on 25.08.2021 and submitted its

first supplementary charge sheet dated 30.09.2021, against 20

accused. During deposition of the PW-1 and long after the institution

of the case, the CBI filed another supplementary charge sheet. Several

more accused were chargesheeted including the present petitioners.

The present petitioners have been arrayed as accused only to fix the

ruling political dispensation before the ensuing Assembly Elections of

2026. Incidentally, the first FIR as lodged by the mother was

substituted by a merged version. Moreover, over nearly the same

materials that were available during filing of the first charge sheet by

the CBI, a second supplementary charge sheet has now been filed

against the additional accused including the present petitioners. It is

germane to mention that two police personnel similarly arraigned as

accused subsequently surrendered before the trial Court, but were

taken into custody. They were granted bail by this Court by an order

dated 05.08.2025. The present petitioners have never tampered with 4 the evidence or influenced or threatened witnesses. Surprisingly, the

other accused were taken into custody despite mere issuance of

process. The trial Court had held that there was no requirement of

issuing warrant of arrest. In fact, the views of the investigating officer

and the Court regarding issuance of process were the same for the

present petitioners. The present petitioners were neither named in the

FIR nor were made accused by the State police. Although, the

materials that the CBI is now harping on for implicating the present

petitioners were all available during the submission of the first charge

sheet by them in the year 2021, the CBI chose not to cite the present

petitioners as accused earlier. Significantly, during the first further

investigation and then the second further investigation by the CBI that

continued for about four years, no effort whatsoever was made to take

the petitioners into custody. Now, all the evidences have purportedly

been collected and the second supplementary charge sheet has been

submitted. Therefore, no fruitful purpose would be served by taking

the petitioners into custody. But, the petitioners are apprehensive

because the other co-accused who went to surrender before the

learned trial Court were taken into custody. The Hon‟ble Apex Court

has time and again deprecated the practice of taking custody of

accused when they appear pursuant to issuance of summons,

especially in cases where they had not been arrested during

investigation and had cooperated with the same. On this reliance may

be placed on ( i) Siddharth vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr. ( 2022) 1

SCC 676, ii) Aman Preet Singh vs. Central Bureau of Investigation ,

(2022) 13 SCC 764, iii) Tarsem Lal vs. Directorate of Enforcement

Jalandhar, (2024) 7 SCC 61. Although, a prima facie view is to be 5 taken in a hearing of an application for anticipatory bail and a mini

trial is to be avoided, however, the facts need to be briefly analyzed.

On facts, an absurd charge of conspiracy of committing murder has

been presented. The first piece of evidence is a video footage recorded

by the victim himself before his death, where he alleged that the

petitioner nos. 1 and 2 and their men were bent upon harassing him,

they were damaging his shelter for animals, killing those animals and

attacking all. It is not the prosecution case that the present petitioners

were at all present at the place of occurrence at the relevant time. The

other material relied upon by the CBI is a video clip of a speech given

by the petitioner no. 1 in the locality about 12 days before the date of

incident declaring that the deceased and his brother were trouble

makers and that he would not allow them to stay there. In this

context, the only allegation against the petitioner nos. 2 and 3 was

that although they were present in the stage when the speech was

being delivered, they did not prevent the petitioner no. 1 from

delivering such provocative speech. All these materials were available

with the CBI at the time of filing of the first supplementary charge

sheet in 2021 and yet, they did not consider it necessary to make the

present petitioners accused in the case. Mere delivery of a speech, not

giving death threats, but threatening that the victim may be evicted

from his place, would not amount to any instigation or abetment to

murder such person. Political figures do make speeches including on

local issues. But, if an unfortunate incident takes place, which has

not even a remote connection with the speech, and which is quite

distant in point of time, the maker of such speech cannot be hauled

up over the commission of such subsequent acts. It was necessary for 6 the investigating agency was to collect corroborative evidence, which

they failed to do or they deliberately did not do. Regarding the speech

in question, the allegations made against the petitioner no. 2 and 3

are too far-fetched and prima facie not tenable. On the question of

maintainability of such application, a Special Bench of this Court in Shamim Ahmed and Ors. vs. State and Ors. , 2003 SCC Online Cal

148 had clearly held that even when a process is issued in a criminal

proceeding, an application for anticipatory bail would be maintainable. 3. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner in CRM (A)

2523 of 2025 has submitted as follows. The petitioner was not named

as an accused either in the first FIR or in the first few statements of

the brother of victim/deceased. It was only in statement of the victim‟s

brother recorded much later before the CBI that the petitioner was

named. This was an afterthought and was meant only to falsely

implicate the petitioner. Moreover, the identification of the petitioner

as "Pancha Da‟s Jamai" is completely false. The petitioner‟s father-in-

law is not known by any such name. It is vehemently denied that the

petitioner threatened the brother of the victim/deceased at any point

of time. 4. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the de facto

complainant vehemently opposes the application and has submitted

as follows. He takes up a question of maintainability and submits that

when a summon is issued in a criminal case after submission of

charge sheet, even after the offences are non-bailable, there can be no

apprehension of arrest by the police. Therefore, an application for

anticipatory bail would not lie. On this reliance is placed on a decision

of the Hon‟ble Delhi High Court in P.V. Narasimha Rao vs. State CBI , 7 1997 (40) DR J (DB). Even in Sandip Kumar Bafna‟s case reported at

(2014) 15 SCC 623, a distinction was made in respect of arrest and

custody. He further submits that the assailants belonged to the ruling

political party and the present three petitioners, who were their local

leaders. A clear case of instigation and conspiracy is made out against

the present petitioners. It is an established fact that the said

petitioners were aggrieved with the political activism of the deceased

and were hell-bent to teach them a lesson. So far as the petitioner

Rajdip Singh was concerned, he was one of the associates. He was

referred to in the first letter of complaint of the brother. In a

subsequent statement, the petitioner was mentioned by name. He was

known as "Pancha Da‟s Jamai". During pendency of the proceeding,

some other accused threatened the brother in the petitioner‟s

presence. 5. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the CBI has strongly

opposed the prayer for the anticipatory bail and has submitted as

follows. The point of maintainability taken on behalf of the de facto

complainant was adopted. The case at hand involves a most gruesome

murder that took place as a part of the post poll violence committed

by the political dispensation in 2021. The victim deceased was

brutally murdered in front of his aged mother and brother. The other

victim, the brother was also beaten up in presence of the State police

personnel. The mother of the victim was made to sign on blank paper

and a softer and somewhat different version was taken as the first

FIR. So far as the present petitioners are concerned, their roles are

very clear and apparent. First, there is a provocative speech given by

the petitioner no. 1 in the presence of the petitioners 2 and 3 on the 8 stage. He had vented his grudge against the victim deceased and was

looking to oust him from that place. The second and more clinching

evidence is the other video clips recorded by the victim himself before

his death. He has taken the names of the of the petitioner nos. 1 and

2 in the same. It is true that these pieces of evidences were available

at the time of filing of the first supplementary charge sheet in 2021.

However, further investigation was being carried out and different

aspects of the relevant facts were being carefully assessed. As such,

the second supplementary charge sheet here could be filed only in

2025. The gravity of the offences, the clinching piece of evidence

collected and the influential position of the present petitioners do not

warrant that an anticipatory bail be granted to them. 6. The application relates to a gruesome murder committed by

some miscreants. This was allegedly a part of the post poll violence

that ensued after the Assembly Elections of 2021. Such horrendous

crimes are to be dealt with sternly. However, the roles of the each of

the accused have to be carefully assessed. An application for

anticipatory bail would also have to be decided on its settled

principles. 7. In Shamim Ahmed (supra) a Special Bench of this Court

held as under - 8. Among other things, the Court held that an application for

anticipatory bail would be maintainable if a process is issued. It is not

for this Court to look for whether the ratio laid down was beyond the

scope of reference in such case. Even, the attempt made on behalf of

the de facto complainant to construe that the process would

essentially mean the issuance of warrant in a complaint case and not

summons is not found sustainable. One has to go by the plain words

used and the same would imply that an application for anticipatory

bail would indeed be maintainable in a case where a process is issued

like the present one where a summons was issued after filing of

charge sheet in a police case involving non-bailable offences. This

Bench is bound by the ratio laid down by a Special Bench of this

Court. 9. That apart, a contrary proposition would lead to anomalous

outcomes. It would imply that if a more strict process like a warrant of

arrest is issued, an application for anticipatory bail would lie. But, if a

less stringent process like a summons is issued, an application for

anticipatory bail would not lie and an accused facing such lighter

process would be deprived of such an opportunity and would be

directly subjected to the exercise of discretion by the Trial Court as

regards grant of bail. 10. Then, there is the other concept of apprehension of arrest

not being confined to an arrest only by the police. As the word "arrest"

has not been defined in the Sanhita or the Code of 1973, an 10 interpretation may fairly be contemplated so as to include within its

ambit, any kind of detention or custody, depriving the liberty of a

citizen, especially when tested on the anvil of Article 21 of the

Constitution of India. According to Black‟s Law Dictionary, 6th Edition,

"arrest" means, among other things, „to deprive a person of his liberty

by legal authority‟; „taking, under real or assumed authority, custody

of another for the purpose of holding or detaining him to answer a

criminal charge or civil demand.‟ 11. In Mahdoom Bava vs. CBI , reported at 2023 SCC Online SC

299, appeals against rejection of anticipatory bail were opposed by the

CBI, inter alia, with a categorical stand that the Court had merely

issued summons and not warrant for appearance of the accused.

There, the Hon‟ble Apex Court held that - 12. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the
 considered view that the appellants are entitled
 to be released on bail, in the event of the Court
 choosing to remand them to custody, when they
 appear in response to the summoning order. Therefore, the appeals are allowed and the
 appellants are directed to be released on bail, in
 the event of their arrest, subject to such terms
 and conditions as may be imposed by the 11 Special Court, including the condition for the
 surrender of the passport, if any. ............" 12. In view of the above discussions, this Court finds that the

present application for anticipatory bail is quite maintainable. 13. The roles allegedly ascribed to each of the present

petitioners also need to be briefly touched upon to find out whether

they are entitled to get anticipatory bail, on merits. Such discussions

would quite obviously be for the limited purpose of deciding the

instant applications. 14. The allegations against the petitioners, Paresh Paul and

Swapan Somaddar are mainly two-fold. 15. First, there were video clips recorded by the victim deceased

before his death, alleging that the petitioner and others were creating

disturbance, damaging things, killing animals and attacking all. It is

elementary that once such allegations came to light, it was

incumbent upon the investigating agency, at the least, to find out

whether there were phone calls made between the petitioners and the

assailants immediately before, at the time or after the incident. But,

the CBI neither arrested the petitioners nor, as submitted on behalf of

the CBI upon inquiry by the Court, collected the CDR and SDR

analysis of relevant phone calls. 16. More pertinently, although the above video clips were

available to the CBI before submission of its first supplementary

charge sheet in 2021, they chose not to treat the petitioners as

accused or file charge sheet against them. 17. The other material strongly relied upon by the CBI as

against the petitioner, Paresh Paul is a speech delivered by him in the

locality about 12 days ago, expressing disapproval about the conduct

of the victim deceased and his brother and promising to oust them

from the locality. This speech was admittedly given a few days before

the incident and there was apparently no direct provocation to

murder anyone. 18. In this context, the only allegation against the petitioners

Swapan Somaddar and Papiya Ghosh is that at the time of giving of

such speech by the said Paresh Paul, they were present on the dais,

but did not prevent him from delivering such speech. 19. It is pertinent to note that the prosecution case is not that

the petitioners Paresh Paul and Swapan Somaddar were present at

the place of occurrence on the relevant time. 20. Be that as it may, the above materials were also available to

the CBI at the time of submission of the first supplementary charge

sheet in 2021. Yet, they chose not to file the charge sheet against the

said petitioners. 21. So far as the petitioner namely Rajdip Singh is concerned,

he is also alleged to be a political activist of the ruling political

dispensation of the State. Although it has been alleged by the brother

of the victim/deceased that he had taken name of the said petitioner

in his letter dated 02.05.2021, the said letter actually does not

specifically disclose the name of the said Rajdip Singh. However,

there is a reference to unnamed others who might be involved. 22. The accused, Rajdip Singh stands on a different footing

than the other petitioners as an allegation has been made against 13 him of being directly involved in the attack. However, the first time

his name was specifically taken by the brother of the victim deceased

was in a statement given much later. 23. An allegation of threat during pendency of this application

has also been made by the brother of the victim deceased against the

present petitioner, although the same has been denied by the learned

counsel for the said petitioner. 24. It is germane to mention that the Hon‟ble Supreme Court

has often frowned upon the practice of taking the accused into

custody when they appear pursuant to issuance of summons,

especially when they had not been arrested during investigation and

had co-operated with the same. 25. In Aman Preet Singh (supra), the Hon‟ble Apex Court held

as follows. The spirit of this ratio needs to be scrupulously

followed. 26. Reference may also be made to the decisions in Siddharth (supra) and Tarsem Lal (supra). 27. It will be for the trial Court to finally decide whether the

above facts and circumstances as appearing against the present

petitioners would satisfy the ingredients of the allegations leveled. 28. However, considering the materials available in the case

diary as discussed above, the fact that although most of the evidence

against the present petitioners were available to the CBI at the time of

filing of the first supplementary charge sheet, except the material

presented against the petitioner, Rajdip Singh, the CBI had chosen

not to make the corresponding petitioners accused in the said charge

sheet, the fact that the CBI filed second supplementary charge sheet

over such materials after about four years from the date of their first

charge sheet, the fact that the petitioners had co-operated with the

investigation in the meantime, that summons was issued upon a

finding by the Court that no case for issuance of warrant of arrest

was made out, the fact that inspite of similar stand taken in case of

some other co-accused, they were taken into custody upon surrender

and the alleged roles ascribed to each of the present petitioners, this

Court is of the considered view that the petitioners are entitled to be

released on bail when they appear in response to the summoning

order. 29. In the event of arrest, the petitioners shall be released on

bail upon furnishing a bond of Rs.1,00,000/- with two sureties of like

amount each, one of whom must be local, to the satisfaction of the

Special Court and on further conditions that - (i) the petitioners shall not threaten witnesses. 15 (ii) the petitioners shall not enter Sitala Tala Lane, Post and

Police Station - Narkeldanga, Kolkata - 700011, where the mother

and the brother of the victim reside, till the completion of the trial. (iii) the petitioner Paresh Paul shall not give any provocative

speech, especially concerning the family members of the

victim/deceased. (iv) the petitioners shall not leave the country without the

permission of the trial Court. (v) the petitioners shall attend the Court regularly on dates

fixed. 30. In case of violation of any of the above conditions, the bail

to be granted to the petitioners shall be liable to be cancelled without

any further reference to this Court. 31. In view of the subsequent allegation of involvement of the

petitioner Rajdip Singh in an incident of threat during pendency of

the application, a proceeding shall be initiated against him under Section 129 of the BNSS for furnishing bond for good behavior. 32. The applications for anticipatory bail are, accordingly,

disposed of. 33. Urgent Photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for,

be given to the parties, upon completion of requisite formalities. (Jay Sengupta, J.)