C Name of the accused 1. Rajeev Arya S/o A. D. Arya
 persons & their parentage 2. Sarika Arya W/o Rajeev Arya 3. Darshan Kumar Popli S/o Sh. Amar
 Nath Popli (proceedings abated vide
 order dated 18.10.2021) 4. Ravinder Singh Bawa S/o Dayal Singh
 Bawa 5. Vijay Kumar S/o Late Ram Chander

 D Date of commission of the From year 2002 to year 2004
 offences
 E Date of Institution of the 05.10.2004
 case
 F Offences charged Accused Vijay Kumar, D.K. Popli and R.S.
 Bawa were charged for offence u/s 409 r/w Section 120B IPC. Accusd Sarika Arya was charged for offence
 u/s 418 r/w Section 120B IPC. Accused Rajiv Arya was charged for offence
 u/s 418/409/467/120B IPC . G Plea of accused persons Pleaded not guilty

 H Date of Pronouncement of 01.05.2024
 judgment

 Digitally
 signed by
 ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: B IPC . 2. In brief, facts of the case as per the prosecution are that on
14.07.2004, a complaint was filed by complainant namely Kuldeep
Aneja stating therein that he along with his wife namely Smt. Ashoka
Aneja opened 6 MIS accounts through postal agent Rajeev Arya which
are as follows : Further, upon perusal of said statement of account, it was
found that monthly interest of Rs.800/- was received from each MIS
account bearing no. 14010, 14011, 14888, 14889 while interest of Rs.
713/- per month was received from MIS account bearing no. 17787 &
17886. Further, all the interest so received from MIS account was to be
deposited in the RD account bearing no. 391645, 392833 & 395528. It
was further found that in RD account no. 391645, 392833, no amount
was deposited after June 2003, while in RD account no. 395528, deposit
was made only once i.e. on 24.12.2002. It is further stated that accused Rajeev Arya along with his
wife Sarika Arya after withdrawing the interest amount from MIS
accounts, used to mis-appropriate the same, instead of depositing the
said amount in the RD accounts. Further, during the course of investigation, it was found that
accused Rajeev Arya with the help of staff of Post Office, got opened
one fake saving account bearing no. 612095 in the name of Kuldeep
Aneja and Ashoka Aneja on 13.04.2004, by forging their signatures and Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: IO, further during the course of investigation, collected all
the original documents, obtained the specimen signature of accused
Rajeev and Sarika Arya & sent the same to FSL, arrested the accused
persons and sent them to JC. Further, during the investigation, IO obtained the nominal
role of the staff of the Post Office, as per which, it was found that from
22.04.2004 to 01.05.2004, clerk Vijay Kumar was presiding over Saving
Account seat and clerk Sanjeev Kumar & Tarun were working at the seat
of MIS. Further, all the signatures in saving bank account were made by
APM R S Bawa. IO arrested all accused persons and recorded their
disclosure statements. During the investigation, it was further found that clerk
Vijay Kumar, who has presided over the seat of saving bank account in
collusion with accused Rajeev Arya, got opened one saving account of
Kuldeep Aneja and Smt. Ashoka Aneja bearing no. 612095 on the basis
of forged signatures of complainant & his wife made by accused Rajeev
Arya. Further accused Vijay Kumar did not verify the true signatures of
complainant & his wife upon the account opening form. Further, the
amount was permitted to be withdrawn in cash, which was against the
rule. against the accused person namely Rajeev Arya, Sarika Arya, Vijay
Kumar, DK Popli and Ravinder Bawa for the offences u/s
406 / 420 / 468 / 471 / 120-B IPC. 4. Upon filing of the charge-sheet, Ld. Predecessor Court vide
order dated 05.10.2004 directed to issue production warrants against
accused persons namely Rajeev Arya & Sarika Arya and copy of the
charge-sheet was supplied to them. Further, on 14.10.2004, the matter
was listed for arguments on the point of charge. Further, on 15.01.2005, supplementary charge-sheet filed
against accused Vijay Kumar. Thereafter, on 02.12.2006, another
supplementary charge-sheet was filed against accused Darshan Kumar
Popli and Ravinder Kumar Bawa, upon which cognizance was taken by
Ld. Predecessor Court and copy of charge-sheet was supplied to said
accused persons. 5. Further, Ld. Predecessor Court vide order dated 27.10.2007
directed to frame charge for the offences u/s 409 IPC r/w 120B IPC against accused Vijay Kumar, Darshan Kumar Popli and Ravinder Singh
Bawa; for offences u/s 418 IPC r/w 120B IPC against accused Sarika
Arya; and for offences u/s 418 / 409 / 467 / 120B IPC against accused
Rajeev Arya. It is pertinent to state in here that the said order on charge
was challenged by accused before Ld. Sessions Court, however the said
revision was dismissed vide order dated 26.02.2009. 6. That thereafter prosecution, in order to prove its case, has
examined 18 witnesses. The evidence so led by the prosecution
witnesses is being stated as under : Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 Date: PW1 Kuldeep Aneja deposed that accused Rajeev Arya had
met him at Krishna Nagar, Head Post office and introduced himself as an
agent of the Post Office. He further deposed that on 09.01.2002 he had
opened two MIS accounts, two MIS accounts in the month of February
2002 and two accounts in the month of December 2002 in his name and
in the name of his wife Smt. Ashoka Aneja. He further deposed that Rs.
1,01,000/- each was deposited in four MIS accounts, Rs.95,000/-each in
two MIS accounts in the names of both the said persons and that an
interest amount against the said MIS accounts was to be deposited in RD
account. He further deposed that on 10.01.2002 and on different
dates, three RD accounts in his name and name of his wife Smt. Ashoka
Aneja were opened by agent / accused Sarika Arya (wife of accused
Rajeev Arya). The amount of interests per month of the above said MIS
accounts is about Rs.1,600/-, Rs.1,600/- & Rs.1,426/- which was to be
deposited in their RD account. He further deposed that accused Rajeev
Arya used to visit his house every month and collect duly signed
withdrawal forms in order to withdraw the monthly interest amount
from MIS accounts and deposit the same in recurring deposit accounts
and further, accused used to show pass books bearing entries of earlier
deposits. He further deposed that in the month of May 2004, when
accused Rajeev Arya did not turn up to collect the withdrawal slip, he
tried to contact him, upon which, father of accused Rajeev Arya
informed him that accused Rajeev Arya is not traceable. He further deposed that thereafter he contacted the post
office to ascertain the status of his accounts, upon which he was
informed that amount of MIS accounts have been withdrawn by accused
Rajeev Arya and that amount in recurring deposit accounts was not been Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: PW-3 : ASI Mahipal Sharma deposed that on 24.07.2004, he
was posted at PS Anand Vihar as duty officer and on that day at about
10.00 pm, SI Ram Avtar produced rukka and on the basis of same, he
registered FIR in the present case vide Ex.PW3/A. He further deposed
that he also made endorsement on the rukka vide Ex.PW3/B and
thereafter, he handed over copy of FIR and original rukka to SI Jaibir Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: The said witness however did not supported the case of the
prosecution and resile from his statement u/s 161 Cr.PC. PW5 Dinesh Chandra Sharma deposed that upon order of
Senior Superintendent, he conducted enquiry in Saving Bank fraud case
and he prepared his report which is Ex. PW5/A. The witness during the
course of his testimony has reiterated the facts of the case and stated
that he found accused Rajeev Arya and Sarika Arya involving in
withdrawing the interest amount from MIS Account of complainant and
not depositing the same in RD account. He further found that the
accused persons closed the MIS Account pre-maturely and opened the
forged saving account in the name of complainant and withdraw the
money from the same. Further, in his enquiry, he found that Vijay and
RS Bawa were also involved in the said offence, since they did not
object opening of saving account in the name of complainant by
accused Rajeev Arya on a form not bearing the signature of the
depositor. PW6 W/ASI Surendra deposed that on 05.08.2004, he was
posted at PS Anand Vihar as W/Constable and on that day, she joined
the investigation of the present case with IO / SI Jaibir Rathi and they
reached in the court of Ld. ACMM, KKD, where IO conducted inquiry Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 Date: from accused Sarika Arya and recorded her disclosure statement vide
Ex.PW6/A and arrested her vide arrest memo Ex.PW6/B.
 Witness correctly identified accused Sarika Arya before the
Court. PW7 J. K. M. Tripathi deposed that in the year 2004, he was
posted at Krishna Nagar, Head Post Office, as Public Relation Officer.
He further deposed that he knew that accused Rajeev Arya and Sarika
Arya were post office agent at that time and Sh. D. K. Popli, R S Bawa
and Vijay Kumar were employees of said post office at that time. He
further deposed that he does not know the role of accused persons
Rajeev Arya and Sarika Arya in the present matter and that police did
not meet him with regard to present case nor recorded his statement. The said witness was cross-examined by Ld. APP for the
State, since he did not disclosed the complete facts. The said witness
during the course of his cross-examination did not supported the case of
prosecution and resile from his statement u/s 161 Cr.PC. PW8 Roop Chand, Retd. Deputy Post Master, Treasury,
Krishna Nagar Head Post Office, deposed that in the year 2003, he was
posted as Deputy Postmaster in Treasury branch, Krishna Nagar, Post
Office, Delhi. He further deposed that he has no concern with the
present matter. He further deposed that during the departmental inquiry
of scam pertaining to Krishna Nagar Head Post Office, all the relevant
records were preserved & kept in the treasury in his & joint custody of
Assistant Post Master Administration. He further deposed that police
officials neither meet him and nor recorded his statement in this regard. The said witness was cross-examined by Ld. APP for the State,
since he did not disclosed the complete facts. The said witness during Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: He further deposed that on 25.09.2004, he along with Ct.
Dharmender reached at the house of complainant Kuldeep Aneja, where
he obtained specimen signatures of complainant Kuldeep Aneja and Smt.
Ashoka Aneja. He further deposed that on 27.07.2004, he visited Krishna
Nagar Head Post Office, where he met Sh. Sudesh Tyagi, Senior Post
Master and collected attested copies of RD account, MIS account and
Saving Bank Account of Kuldeep Aneja and Ashok Aneja. He further
deposed that on 28.08.2004, he again visited the said post office and
collected attested copies of license of accused Rajeev Arya and Sarika
Arya. He further deposed that on 31.08.2004, he moved an Digitally signed ANUBHAV by ANUBHAV
 JAIN
 JAIN Date: 2024.05.01
 16:34:21 +0530
FIR No. 359/04 PS Anand Vihar State v. Rajeev Arya & Ors. Page no. 13/ 44
 application u/s 92 Cr.PC Ex.PW13/X1 for providing original documents
and the concerned court had ordered Senior Post Master for providing
said documents. He further deposed that since accused Rajeev Arya &
Sarika Arya were in JC at that time, he prepared charge-sheet and filed
the same before the Court. He further deposed that on 03.11.2004, he interrogated and
arrested accused Vijay Kumar in the present matter vide arrest memo
Ex.PW11/B, prepared his personal search memo Ex.PW11/C and also
recorded his disclosure statement Ex.PW11/A. He further deposed that
he also took specimen hand-writing and signatures of accused Vijay
Kumar vide Ex.PW11/D to Ex.PW11/O, in the presence of Ct.
Dharmender. He further deposed that he also seized the original
documents Ex.PA to Ex.PJ produced by concerned Post Master vide
memo Ex.PW13/X2. He further deposed that he moved an application u/s 197 Cr.PC before Senior Post Master Ex. PW13/A1 and obtained the
sanction thereof. He further deposed that he prepared the supplementary
charge-sheet against accused Vijay Kumar and filed the same before the
court. The said witness further reiterated the facts as averrred by
PW-1 and same is not being reproduced here in for the sake of brevity. PW-14 : Retd. Inspector V. K. Sharma has deposed that in the
year 2006, he was posted at ICPP Chowki Incharge in Anand Vihar
ISBT and as per directions of SHO PS Anand Vihar, he filed request for
submission of CFSL result on 07.03.2006 which is Ex.PW14/A and the
report is Ex.PW10/A. He further deposed that thereafter, he received the
case file of the present case file for further investigation and on
17.08.2006, accused Ravinder Singh Bawa came to said Chowki but he
was not arrested because he has already taken the anticipatory bail from Digitally signed ANUBHAV by ANUBHAV
 JAIN
 JAIN Date: 2024.05.01
 16:34:28 +0530
FIR No. 359/04 PS Anand Vihar State v. Rajeev Arya & Ors. Page no. 14/ 44
 the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. He further deposed that he
interrogated accused Ravinder Singh Bawa and formally arrested him
vide arrest memo Ex.PW14/B and thereafter, accused was released on
bail as per directions of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. He further
deposed that thereafter, he was transferred to another place and he
handed over the case file to MHC(R). Witness correctly identified accused Ravinder Singh Bawa
before the Court. PW-15 : W/ASI Sunita has deposed that on 24.07.2004, she
was posted at PS Anand Vihar as constable and on that day, IO
interrogated accused Sarika Arya in her presence. Witness correctly identified accused Sarika Arya before the
Court. PW-16 : Inspector Kumar Jiweshwar has deposed that in the
month of November, 2006, he was posted at ICPP Anand Vihar ISBT as
SI and on that day, he received present case file from MHC(R) as
further investigation of the present case was marked to me. He further
deposed that accused Darshan Kumar Popli was not arrested because he
has already taken the anticipatory bail from the Hon'ble High Court of
Delhi. He further deposed that thereafter, on 07.11.2006 at about 02.00
pm, accused Darshan Kumar Popli came to said Chowki and he along
with Ct. Bhujender formally arrested him vide arrest memo Ex.PW16/A
and thereafter, accused was released on bail as per directions of the
Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. He further deposed that after collecting
all the documents & completion of investigation, he prepared the
charge-sheet and same was submitted in the Court. Witness correctly identified accused Darshan Kumar Popli Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 Date: PW-17 : HC Bhujender has deposed that on 07.11.2006, he
was posted at ICPP Anand Vihar ISBT as constable / DD writer and on
that day at about 02.00 pm, IO / SI K. J. Singh formally arrested
accused Darshan Kumar Popli in his presence vide arrest memo
Ex.PW16/A and thereafter, accused was released on bail by the IO as
per directions of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. Witness correctly identified accused Darshan Kumar Popli before the
Court. PW-18 : HC Prem Singh has deposed that on 08.08.2004, he
joined investigation of the present case and on that day at about 11.00
am, he along with IO SI Jaiveer Singh Rathi and accused Rajeev Arya
went to 4/491, Bhola Nath Nagar, Shahdara, Delhi, as the said house
was belonging to accused Rajeev Arya, from where IO recovered three
RD account book in the name of Kuldeep Aneja and Ashoka Taneja at
the instance of accused Rajeev Arya from the almirah lying on first
floor of said house. He further deposed that IO seized the said recorded
RD account book vide seizure memo Ex.PW13/A4. Witness correctly identified accused Rajeev Arya before the Court. 7. After completion of prosecution evidence, same was closed
on 11.07.2018 and matter was listed for recording of statement of all the
accused persons u/s 313 Cr.PC. 8. In the statement u/s 313 Cr.PC, all accused persons deposed
as under: 9. During the course of Defence Evidence, accused persons
examined Sh. J. P. Rajor, Superintendent of Post Office Staff as DW-1,
who deposed that he was appointed as inquiry authority in relation to
case of R. S. Bawa and D. K. Popli and he concluded the inquiry, the
charges against R. S. Bawa and D. K. Popli were not proved and it was
held that they had done their official work as per post office rules. He
further deposed that preliminary inquiry was conducted by D. C. Sharma
and final inquiry was conducted by him. He further proved the inquiry
report Ex.DW1/A and Ex.DW1/B.

 Accused has further examined one Sh. Arjun Dev Arya as
DW2. The testimony of DW2 is reproduced as under for the sake of
convenience : Thereafter, DE was closed and matter was listed for final
arguments. 10. It is pertinent to state in here that accused Darshan Kumar
Popli (D. K. Popli) has expired during the trial and proceedings against
him stood abated vide order dated 18.10.2021. 11. It is argued by Ld. APP for the State that the complainant
has supported the case of the prosecution. It is further argued that as per
FSL report as well as testimony of D. C. Sharma, the signatures upon the
withdrawl form & account opening form of SB a/c were not made by the
complainant and same bear the signatures of accused Rajeev Arya. It is
further argued that the offence so committed by accused Rajeev Arya in
conspiracy with other post office officials as well as his wife Sarika Arya
are serious in nature since they have cheated the complainant by forging
his signatures. It is further argued that prosecution has proved its case
beyond reasonable doubt and that accused persons are liable to be
punished for the offences charged. 12. On the other hand, it is argued by Ld. LAC for accused
Rajeev Arya and Sarika Arya that there are several contradictions in the
testimonies of the witnesses. It is further argued that the signatures so
relied upon by the prosecution were not taken after the permission of the
court and same were taken by the IO at the PS only. It is further argued
that there is no iota of evidence against accused Sarika Arya that she was
part of conspiracy with accused Rajeev Arya and as such, prosecution
has failed to prove its case against accused Rajeev Arya and accused Digitally signed
 ANUBHAV by ANUBHAV
 JAIN
 JAIN Date: 2024.05.01
 16:35:23 +0530
FIR No. 359/04 PS Anand Vihar State v. Rajeev Arya & Ors. Page no. 19/ 44
 Sarika Arya and they are entitled to be acquitted in the present case. Further, on behalf of accused Vijay Kumar and R. S. Bawa,
it is argued that no evidence has been brought forth by the prosecution
that above said persons are part of conspiracy. It is further argued that
none of the prosecution witnesses have supported the case of the
prosecution qua accused Vijay Kumar and R. S. Bawa. It is further
argued that the report filed by D. C. Sharma was merely preliminary
inquiry and both accused persons were exonerated by Sh. J. P. Rajor after
the final inquiry. He has argued that prosecution has failed to prove its
case against accused Vijay Kumar and R. S. Bawa and they are entitled
to be acquitted in the present case. 13. I have heard the arguments so led by Ld. Counsels for the
parties and perused the case file carefully. 14. It is settled proposition of criminal law that burden lies
upon prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt by leading
reliable, cogent, and convincing evidence. Further, it is a settled
proposition of criminal law that in order to prove its case, prosecution is
supposed to stand on its own legs and it cannot derive any benefit from
the weaknesses, if any, in the defense of the accused. 15. At this stage, this court deems it appropriate that role of
each of the accused along with evidence with regard to him shall be dealt
with separately for the sake of convenience.
Accused Rajeev Arya 16. In brief, it is the case of the complainant against accused
Rajeev Arya that: Digitally
 signed by
 ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: accused Sarika Arya. b) That Rajeev Arya used to visit at the house of the complainant and
 used to get signature of the complainant on withdrawal slip for
 withdrawal of interest amount from MIS account to deposit the
 same in RD account. c) That Rajeev Arya, with the connivance of post office staff: Point of Conflict 20. The complainant, however, stated that; a) He never authorized any person to open any SB account, nor he
 opened the same on his own nor the SB account opening form
 bears his signatures; which was never received by him or authorized by him. Further,
 amount of Rs. 84,894/- was withdrawn from his account towards
 interest, however same was never deposited in RD account. d) Amout of interest was withdrawn from his account but never got
 deposited in RD account. e) He never authorized pre-mature closure of MIS accounts; f) That accused Rajeev Arya used to take blank signed withdrawal
 slips from him in order to withdraw the Interest amount from MIS
 account and deposit the same in SB account. 21. Accused Rajeev Arya, who never denied the fact that he
was extending his services to the complainant however in his defense has
stated that he used to take filled up forms from the costumers and that he
never withdraw any amount from account of his customer. Evidence Led by Prosecution 22. Prosecution in order to prove its case against accused
Rajeev Arya, apart from examining the complainant has placed on record
application for opening the SB account bearing no. 612095 &
withdrawal slips dated 23.04.2004, 26.04.2004, 27.04.2004, 28.04.2004
& 29.04.2004. Prosecution has further send the said documents to FSL for
verification of signature of complainant and accused over the same. As
per the said FSL report, accused Rajeev Arya has forged the signatures of
complainant Kuldeep Aneja over the Account opening form of SB
account no. 612095. Furthermore, withdrawal slips bears forged Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: 23. It is argued by Ld. Counsel for accused Rajeev Arya that the
complainant Kuldeep Aneja during the course of his testimony, failed to
disclose the complete facts and has further failed to explain the reason
for delay in lodging of FIR. It is further stated that the complainant failed
to inform the voucher no. etc. It is further argued that no independent
witness was made to join in the investigation and further as per the
testimony of PW-5, Post Office officials are the main accused. It is
further argued that no substantial evidence has brought forth by the
prosecution in order to prove its case and that accused Rajeev Arya. It is
further argued that complainant failed to disclose dates on which accused
used to visit house of complainant for signing of withdrawal slips. Legal Preposition 24. In light of facts and evidences discussed above, this court,
at this stage, deems it appropriate to discuss in here legal proposition
with regard to evidences led by the prosecution. a) Evidence of complainant 25. Complainant Kuldeep Aneja, during the course of his
deposition has stated that he has got opened MIS accounts through
accused Rajeev Arya. He further deposed that accused Rajeev Arya used
to visit his house on monthly basis and used to get the withdrawal
vouchers signed from him in order to withdraw the interest from MIS Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: 26. It is settled proposition of law that testimony of complainant lies
at higher pedestal than that of other witnesses. Injured herein, have
consistently averred that offence of cheating and criminal breach of trust
was done upon him by the accused Rajeev Arya. As such, before
proceeding further with other evidences in hand, this court at this stage
deems it appropriate to discuss in here observation made by Hon'ble
Apex Court in Mano Dutt v. State of U.P. , (2012) 4 SCC 79 : (2012) 2
SCC (Cri) 226 wherein Hon'ble Supreme Court observes as follows: Where a witness to the occurrence has himself been injured
 in the incident, the testimony of such a witness is generally
 considered to be very reliable, as he is a witness that comes
 with a built-in guarantee of his presence at the scene of the
 crime and is unlikely to spare his actual assailant(s) in order
 to falsely implicate someone. 'Convincing evidence is required
 to discredit an injured witness.' [Vide Ramlagan Singh v. State
 of Bihar [(1973) 3 SCC 881 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 563] , Malkhan
 Singh v. State of U.P. [(1975) 3 SCC 311 : 1974 SCC (Cri) 919]
 , Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab [(1983) 3 SCC 470 : 1983
 SCC (Cri) 681] , Appabhai v. State of Gujarat [1988 Supp SCC
 241 : 1988 SCC (Cri) 559] , Bonkya v. State of
 Maharashtra [(1995) 6 SCC 447 : 1995 SCC (Cri)
 1113] , Bhag Singh [Bhag Singh v. State of Punjab, (1997) 7
 SCC 712 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 1163] , Mohar v. State of
 U.P. [(2002) 7 SCC 606 : 2003 SCC (Cri) 121] (SCC p. 606b- c), Dinesh Kumar v. State of Rajasthan [(2008) 8 SCC 270 : Thus, the deposition of the injured witness should be relied
 upon unless there are strong grounds for rejection of his
 evidence on the basis of major contradictions and
 discrepancies therein." To the similar effect is the judgment of this Court
 in Balraje [(2010) 6 SCC 673 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 211] . 27. Complainant was cross examined at length by Ld. Counsel for
accused Rajeev Arya and Sarika Arya. During course of cross
examination, Ld. Counsel for the accused raised defence that
complainant failed to reveal exact dates as to when accused Rajeev Arya
visited his house to get the withdrawal form sign and that further there is
contradictions in the testimony of complainant with regards to number of
time he visited the post office. Further defence is raised that there is
delay in lodging of complaint by the complainant and complainant
further failed to disclose name of one V.P.Arora (who introduced
complainant to accused Rajeev Arya) to the IO. 28. Admittedly, present offence is alleged to have been
committed from year 2002 till year 2004. Complainant Kuldeep Aneja Digitally signed
 ANUBHAV by ANUBHAV
 JAIN
 JAIN Date: 2024.05.01
 16:36:37 +0530
FIR No. 359/04 PS Anand Vihar State v. Rajeev Arya & Ors. Page no. 27/ 44
 was partly cross examined in the year 2010 and was cross examined in
ther 2014 i.e. after about 10 years. As such, considering the considerable
lapse of lapse, some contradictions are bound to occur in testimony of
witnesses. Furthermore, it cannot be expected from a human being to
recall exact dates when accused visited his house or when he visited post
office. At this juncture, this court deems it appropriate to discuss in
here observations made by Hon'ble Apex Court in Kishan Singh Rawat
vs State, CRL.A. 7/2006, wherein it was observed: 29. At this stage, it is further pertinent to state in here that prosecution
has also examined one another victim namely Ashoka Aneja i.e. wife of
complainant. Apparently, all the MIS accounts and RD accounts were in
the joint name of complainant Kuldeep Aneja and his wife Ashoka
Aneja. Ashoka Aneja, deposed similar in lines of complainant Kuldeep
Aneja, however, she was never cross examined by any of the accused.
Perusal of record reveals that Ld. Predecessor court after granting
sufficient opportunity to accused persons to cross examine Ashoka
Aneja, close their right to cross examine of 25.07.2015. Further, perusal of entire record reveals that no application
was moved on behalf of either of the accused to recall said witness for
cross examination, nor the order dated 25.07.2015 was ever challenged
by any of the accused. As such, testimony of injured Ashoka Aneja goes
uncontroverted and uncontradicted. FSL Report 30. Apart from testimony of complainant/injured Kuldeep Aneja and
Ashoka Aneja, prosecution has further relied upon the documents i.e.
Statement of Account of MIS accounts, RD accounts of the complainant,
Account opening forms and withdrawal slips of all the accounts. 31. As per FSL report as well as testimony of PW-4, during the
examination of signatures of the accused over documents in question it
 Digitally
 signed by
 ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: 32. As such, from the testimony of the complainant, Ashoka Aneja as
well as FSL report, it is clear that SB account bearing no. 612095 was
never opened by Kuldeep Aneja or Ashoka Aneja. Further, it is clear that
said account was opened by accused Rajeev Arya by forging signatures
of Kuldeep Aneja over the same. 33. Similarly from perusal of withdrawals slips from SB account no. It is clear that slip from serial no. 1 to 4 does not bear
signatures of complainant Kuldeep Aneja. Only withdrawal slip at Sr. no. 5 have signatures of complainant Kuldeep (at point Q70), however, as
per FSL report, said signatures are not made by or in handwriting of
complainant Kuldeep. Furthermore, all the said withdrawal slips bears
signatures of accused Rajeev Arya at different places, and as per FSL
report, same matches with handwriting of accused Rajeev Arya. 34. As such, FSL report so filed further goes to strengthen the
case of prosecution that accused Rajeev Arya, by forging the signature of
the complainant on SB opening account form, got opened a forged
Saving bank account of the complainant in the post office and thereafter
transferred the amount from MIS account of the complainant to said SB
account and thereafter withdraw the same. 35. At this juncture, this court deems it appropriate to deal on here
arguments so led by Ld. Counsel for the accused Rajeev Arya that
conviction cannot be solely base upon the Forensic report. Ld. Counsel
for the accused relied upon the judgment passed by Hon'ble Apex Court
in Padum Kumar v. State of U.P. , (2020) 3 SCC 35 wherein it was
observed by Hon'ble Apex Court: There can be no hard-and-fast rule, but nothing will justify
 the rejection of the opinion of an expert supported by
 unchallenged reasons on the sole ground that it is not
 corroborated. The approach of a court while dealing with the
 opinion of a handwriting expert should be to proceed
 cautiously, probe the reasons for the opinion, consider all
 other relevant evidence and decide finally to accept or reject
 it. In the abovesaid judgment, it is categorically observed by
Hon'ble Apex Court that corroboration may not be insisted upon before
acting on the opinion of hand writing expert, however, court while
dealing with opinion of handwriting expert should procced cautiously,
consider all relevant facts and decide finally to accept or reject it. 36. In the present case in hand, apart from FSL report, there is
consistent testimony of complainant Kuldeep Aneja and uncontroverted
testimony of victim Ashoka Aneja. Further, FSL report is filed qua
hundreds of signatures of accused and complainant. FSL report clearly
mnetions as to which all document bears signatures of complainant and
which are not. Further, said report specifically corroborate the version of
the complainant and victim Ashoka Aneja that SB account was opened in
their name by forging their signatures over the same. 37. At this juncture, it would also be relevant to discuss in here
version/defence of the accused so raised by him in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C

Statement of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C 38. In the present case, accused Rajeev Arya in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. has vaguely replied to the questions so put to him.
Accused in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. has not clearly explained the
circumstances leading to present complaint against him. Before
proceeding further with the answers so given by the accused, this court
deems it appropriate to discuss in here law with regard to evidentiary
value attached to statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. In Ramnaresh v. State of
Chhattisgarh , (2012) 4 SCC 257 Hon'ble Apex Court observed as
follows: 39. In light of the law discussed above, coming upon the
answers so given by accused Rajeev Arya in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. For the sake of convenience, relevant portion of the statement u/s
313 Cr.P.C. of accused Rajeev Arya is being reproduced as under : h) No evidence was brought forth by accused Rajeev Arya in order
 to put his defence or to rebut the case of prosecution. i) Nothing is placed on record by accused Rajeev Arya to show that
 accused has motive to falsely implicate him in the present case; The only conclusion which can be brought forth is that accused
Rajeev Arya has forged the documents Account opening form (to open
SB account no. 612095) and the withdrawal forms to transfer the amount
from MIS account (of the complainant Kuldeep Aneja & Ashoka Aneja)
to SB account and thereafter withdrawing the amount from the same. 43. In view of the same, since it is proved beyond reasonable
doubt by prosecution that accused Rajeev Arya, being authorized agent
of the complainant and bound by law to protect the interest of
complainant, opened fake saving bank account of the complainant by
forging the signatures of complainant and his wife Ashoka Aneja and
further by forging the withdrawal slips transferred the amount from MIS
accounts of the complainant into said SB account (which was opened by Digitally signed ANUBHAV by ANUBHAV
 JAIN
 JAIN Date: 2024.05.01
 16:38:50 +0530
FIR No. 359/04 PS Anand Vihar State v. Rajeev Arya & Ors. Page no. 37/ 44
 accused by forging signatures of complainant over the same) and
withdraw the amount from the same in cash, accused Rajeev Arya is
convicted for the offence u/s 418 / 467 / 409 IPC. 44. It is pertinent to state in here that accused Rajeev Arya is
also charged for the offence of criminal conspiracy u/s 120-B IPC, since
it is stated that accused has committed above said offence in conspiracy
with his wife Sarika Arya and post office officials R.S. Bawa, D.K. Popli
and Vijay Kumar. As such, with regard to offence u/s 120 B IPC against
accused Rajeev Arya, can be considered only after considering role of
other accused persons in the present case. Accused Sarika Arya 45. With regards to accused Sarika Arya, it is alleged that: 46. Accused Sarika Arya, in her statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C
denied all the allegations so levelled against her and further stated she
never visited the house of complainant and was falsely implicated in the
present case. 47. As discussed above, accused Sarika Arya is charged by Ld.
Predecessor Court for the offence u/s 418 IPC r/w sec. 120-B IPC. As
such, before proceeding further with accusations against accused Sarika
Arya, this court deems it appropriate to discuss in here law with regards
to criminal conspiracy. For the same, I may gainfully refer to the Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 Date: observations made by Hon'ble Apex Court in Baldev Singh v. State of
Punjab , (2009) 6 SCC 564, 20. In K.R. Purushothaman v. State of Kerala [(2005) 12
 SCC 631 : (2006) 1 SCC (Cri) 686] this Court held: (SCC
 pp. 636-38, paras 11 & 13)
 "11. Section 120-A IPC defines 'criminal conspiracy'.
 According to this section when two or more persons agree
 to do, or cause to be done (i) an illegal act, or (ii) an act which is not illegal by illegal means, such an
 agreement is designated a criminal conspiracy. In Major
 E.G. Barsay v. State of Bombay [AIR 1961 SC 1762 : 61. As discussed above, it is for the prosecution to prove
beyond reasonable doubts that accused R.S. Bawa and Vijay Kumar were Digitally signed
 by ANUBHAV
 ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: 62. In view of the discussion made above, accused R.S. Bawa
and Vijay Kumar stands acquitted for the offences they are charged for. 63. Furthermore, since there is nothing brought on record that
accused Sarika Arya, Vijay Kumar, R.S. Bawa entered into conspiracy
with accused Rajeev Arya in order to cheat the complainant, accused
Rajeev Arya Stands acquitted for the offence u/s 120 B IPC. In view of the discussion made above accused Sarika
Arya, Vijay Kumar and R. S. Bawa stands acquitted for the offences
they are charged for. Further, accused Rajeev Arya stands convicted for the Digitally signed ANUBHAV by ANUBHAV
offence punishable u/s 418 / 467 / 409 IPC. JAIN
 JAIN
 Date: 2024.05.01
 16:40:04 +0530

Announced in the open Court (Anubhav Jain)
on 01st May, 2024 ACMM/Shahdara/KKD/Delhi
 01.05.2024
 Present judgment consisted of 44 pages and each page bears my Digitally signed by ANUBHAV signatures. ANUBHAV JAIN
 JAIN Date: