Applicant Arnav Kumar is in judicial custody in

Case Crime No. 110 of 2024, under Section 308(2), 308(3),

318(4) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, P.S. Clemantown,

Dehradun. He has sought his release on bail. 2. Heard learned counsel for the parties and

perused the record. 3. by morphing, the photograph of one office bearer

of an Institute, according to the FIR, an obscene video was

made and circulated. Thereafter, demand was made from

the officers of the Institute in the name of sending that video

to higher Officers. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant would submit

that there is no evidence against the applicant; allegedly one

mobile was recovered from the applicant, but the applicant 2 never made any video; it was transmitted to him by some

other student; he did not extend any threat. 5. Learned Senior Counsel for the informant would

submit that by morphing the photo of an office bearer of the

Institute, an obscene video was prepared and circulated,

which is, in fact, the social murder of that person. It is

argued that a mobile phone was recovered from the

applicant, which had that video. 6. Learned State Counsel adopts the arguments

advanced by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

informant. 7. It is a stage of bail. Much of the discussion is not

expected of. Arguments are being appreciated with the

caveat that any observation made in this order shall have no

bearing at any subsequent stage of the trial, or in any other

proceeding. 8. With regard to extortion, there is no evidence as

to whether the applicant did make any call demanding

money. The FIR per se records that obscene video was

circulated. Who circulated it? Who prepared it? As such,

there is no material. 9. Having considered, this Court is of the view that

it is a case fit for bail and the applicant deserves to be

enlarged on bail. 10. The bail application is allowed. 11. Let the applicant be released on bail, on his

executing a personal bond and furnishing two reliable

sureties, each of the like amount, to the satisfaction of the

court concerned. (Ravindra Maithani, J)
 20.11.2024
 Avneet/