IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No.1162 of 2020
 Reserved on: 14th September, 2020
 Decided on: 24th September, 2020 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- . Hitesh Gandhi

 .....Petitioner
 Versus

 Central Bureau of Investigation
 .....Respondent -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Coram

 The Hon'ble Ms. Jyotsna Rewal Dua, Judge

 Whether approved for reporting? 1 Yes

 For the Petitioner: Mr. Jyotirmay Bhatt, Mr. Sushmit

 Bhatt and Mr. Udayanand Sharma,
 Advocates, through Video Conference. For the Respondent: Mr. Anshul Bansal, Special Prosecutor,
 through Video Conference. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Jyotsna Rewal Dua, Judge

 Where, based on alleged, prima facie, strong

 evidence, serious allegations of cheating, criminal breach of

 trust, forgery and siphoning of student scholarship funds in

 conspiracy with the government and bank officials have

 been levelled against the head of a private educational

 institute, then should he be granted regular bail on the

 ground that the investigating agency will take indefinite and

 indeterminate time for completely investigating the matter, 1 Whether reporters of print and electronic media may be allowed to see the order? considering the fact that investigation of one out of the two

 involved institutes headed by this person is over and of the

 other institute is going on at slow pace, is the main

 . question raised in this bail petition. 2. Gist of Allegations:- receipt of scholarships by the students under the State and

 Centrally Sponsored Schemes for SC/ST/OBC/MC

 students. Preliminary inquiry conducted by the State

 Project Officer revealed mis-appropriation of scholarship

 funds on large scale with complicity of officials working in

 the Education Department, Central Government, Banks

 and Private Institutions. It was further alleged in the FIR

 that income/caste certificates of students were not verified

 and did not appear to be genuine. Through single

 application, disbursement of scholarships under two

 different categories of SC & ST also came to light. Many ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 3 loopholes were detected in 'hp-e-pass' software used by the

 State Education Department, whereby the same mobile and

 bank account numbers were accepted for more than one

 . application. Applications for scholarships were accepted

 without regard to any Aadhar number. Instructions issued

 by the Central Government for disbursing the scholarships

 through smart cards were not adhered to by the officials of

 the Education Department. Verification of scholarship

 applications was not carried out by the concerned

 Education Department officials. It was further alleged that

 the private educational institutions had opened bank

 accounts of the students near their institutes. Some of the

 bank accounts in Chandigarh and Haryana were alleged to

 be dubious. 80% of total scholarship money disbursed was

 granted through private educational institutions. 2(ii). Pursuant to notification dated 20.03.2019, the

 FIR dated 16.11.2018 was entrusted to CBI and case

 RC0962019A0002 was registered on 07.05.2019 at CBI,

 ACB, Shimla under Sections 409 , 419 , 465 , 466 and 471 of

 the Indian Penal Code against unknown persons. After

 entrustment of FIR, CBI carried out investigations. Noticing

 the complicity of public servants of Directorate of Higher

 Education, Bank Officials and Officials of the private ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 4 educational institutions, Section 120-B of IPC and 13(2)

 read with 13(1)(c) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of

 Corruption Act, 1988 , were added in the case. CBI

 . conducted searches of 22 private institutions, which had

 disbursed the scholarships, w.e.f. 13.05.2019 to

 16.05.2019 at 22 locations in the States of Himachal

 Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Union Territory of

 Chandigarh. Following table gives the macro view of post- matric scholarship funds alleged to have been illegally

 siphoned off through private institutions:- being conducted institution-wise. 22 private educational

 institutions in all are under investigation. Investigation of

 one of the institute, i.e. K.C. Group of Institutions, ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 5 Pandoga, District Una, has been completed. Charge-sheet

 for embezzlement of scholarship funds of Rs.13.19 crores

 has already been filed in the Court of learned Special Judge

 . (CBI), Shimla on 30.03.2020 by keeping the investigation

 open under Section 173(8) of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure. Investigation regarding second institute of K.C.

 Group of Institutions at Nawanshahr, Punjab is being

 carried out. According to the status report, the investigation

 has revealed that scholarships were claimed by these

 institutes without admission of students; documents of

 students, who had taken admission in K.C. Group of

 Institutions, Pandoga, District Una, were also used in K.C.

 Group of Institutions Nawanshahr, Punjab, for claiming

 scholarship; Some of the General Category students of K.C.

 Group of Institutions, Pandoga, District Una, were shown

 as students of SC category in K.C. Group of Institutions

 Nawanshahr, Punjab for claiming scholarship; Students

 shown as belonging to SC category in K.C. Group of

 Institutions, Pandoga, District Una during the years 2013-

 14 and 2014-15, have been shown as belonging to ST

 students in K.C. Group of Institutions, Nawanshahr,

 Punjab, during the years 2015-16 and 2016-17; Many of

 the students were found non-existent during investigations. Scholarship funds of Rs.11.33 crores were disbursed to

 K.C. Group of Institutions, Nawanshahr, Punjab. Group of Institutions, established by K.C. Social Welfare

 Trust. Two such K.C. Group of Institutions are involved in

 the FIR, i.e. K.C. Group of Institutions at Nawanshahr,

 Punjab and K.C. Group of Institutions at Pandoga, Una,

 H.P.

 2(iv)(b). According to the status report, investigations

 revealed that:- post-matric scholarship in K.C. Group of Institutions,

 Nawanshahr, Punjab w.e.f. 2013-14 to 2016-17 had

 purportedly taken admission in K.C. Group of

 Institutions, Pandoga, Una and not in Nawanshahr,

 Punjab. Documents of students, who had taken admission in

 K.C. Group of Institutions, Pandoga, were used in K.C.

 Group of Institutions, Nawanshahr, Punjab for

 claiming scholarship. Some of the general category

 students, who had studied from K.C. Group of

 Institutions, Pandoga, Una, were shown as students of

 Scheduled Caste category for claiming scholarship. Students shown as belonging to SC category in K.C.

 Group of Institutions, Pandoga, Una during the years

 2013-15 have been shown as belonging to ST category

 in K.C. Group of Institutions, Nawanshahr, Punjab

 during the years 2015-17. v). Two bank accounts were opened for some of the

 students in the name of one student. In one bank

 account, students admitted their signatures on the

 . account opening forms as well as their photographs,

 but denied having been granted any scholarship from

 the Directorate of Higher Education, Himachal

 Pradesh. In the second account opening forms,

 students denied their photographs as well as

 signatures. It has been alleged that the accounts have

 been opened by the bank officials in conspiracy with

 the petitioner. vi). It is further alleged that the petitioner in

 conspiracy with co-accused Surinder Pal Singh,

 working as Cashier at the relevant time in Central

 Bank of India, Nawanshahr Branch, Punjab, had

 withdrawn scholarship amount through 49 vouchers

 amounting to Rs.48,75,500/- on a single day, i.e.

 08.05.2018. Signatures of students did not match on

 these vouchers. Still these were passed by the Cashier

 fraudulently in conspiracy with the petitioner. vii). Petitioner is also stated to have conspired with

 one Sunil Kumar, who operated a Computer Centre at

 Amb, Una. Documents of sixty students from this ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 9 centre were statedly collected by the petitioner for

 claiming scholarship funds in conspiracy with co- accused Arvind Rajta, the then Superintendent Grade- . II, Directorate of Higher Education, Himachal Pradesh,

 Shimla. Documents of eighteen students of Computer

 Science of this Computer Centre were used by the

 petitioner for claiming scholarship funds. viii). Allegedly, streams of various students were

 subsequently changed by K.C. Group of Institutions

 for claiming
 r higher amount of scholarship, i.e.

 students, who had purportedly initially taken

 admission in the diploma course, were shown as

 students of degree course in the next year. ix). It has also been alleged that as per the

 applicable guidelines, amount of fee component can be

 transferred directly to the bank account of the

 concerned institute, subject to the condition that the

 institute has not charged any fees from the students. Though no such affidavit was filed by K.C. Group of

 Institutions before the Directorate of Higher

 Education, Himachal Pradesh, still the scholarships

 were claimed on the basis of false information and ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 10 forged documents in conspiracy with co-accused

 public servants. x). Petitioner is stated to be the ultimate beneficiary

 . of scholarship amount of Rs.11.33 crores, which has

 been claimed on the basis of false and forged

 documents in K.C. Group of Institutions, Nawanshahr

 and Rs.13.19 cores in K.C. Group of Institutions,

 Pandoga, Una. Petitioner has allegedly

 misappropriated the scholarship amount by violating

 all the guidelines and by submitting forged documents

 in conspiracy with co-accused public servants. Petitioner is involved in transferring the scholarship

 amount from the bank accounts of students to

 different bank accounts of K.C. Group of Institutions

 by using their documents and submitting false &

 forged documents of students. 3. Events:- Principal, K.C. Institute of Pharmaceutical,

 Pandoga, Una. Learned counsel contended that the

 investigating agency is carrying out investigation in a

 discriminatory manner. Petitioner is the Vice-Chairman of 2

 out of 22 concerned institutions. He was not involved in

 day-to-day administration of these two institutions, yet it is

 the petitioner, who has been made the scapegoat and

 arrested, whereas the other four accused persons, who were

 working in K.C. Group of Institutions, even though have

 been challaned for the common offences faced by all five

 accused persons, were not taken into custody. In case the

 investigating agency did not feel the necessity to arrest the

 other four accused persons belonging to K.C. Group of

 Institutions, then there was no occasion even to arrest the

 petitioner, much less any further need to continue to keep

 him behind the bars for an indefinite period. There have

 been no arrests regarding the other private educational

 institutes statedly involved in the case. 4(i)(d). Learned counsel also highlighted the fact that

 the bank official Surinder Pal Singh, a co-accused in the

 FIR, in conspiracy with whom petitioner had allegedly

 . transferred/withdrawn scholarship funds, has already been

 enlarged on bail in Cr.MP(M) No.409 of 2020. 4(i)(e). Citing various judgments in support of his

 prayer for release of the petitioner on bail, learned counsel

 submitted that the petitioner is aged about 41 years. He

 has no criminal antecedent. Besides the two educational

 institutions, he is the Vice-Chairman of nine companies (KC

 Land & Finance Limited, Farady Engineering Industries

 Private Limited, Indigo Fincap Private Limited, King

 Entertainment Private Limited, Future Web Solutions

 Private Limited, Pandoga Research and Foundation Private

 Limited, Mahalon Education and Medical Research

 Foundation Private Limited, Sutlej Service Station Private

 Limited and Walia Traders Limited). Petitioner is

 economically sound and has deep roots in the society. There is no possibility of his tampering with the prosecution

 evidence or influencing the prosecution witnesses. He is

 permanent resident of Mohali, Bhatti colony, Nawanshahr,

 Punjab. He will not abscond and will abide by all the terms

 & conditions, which may be imposed upon him by this ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 15 Court and will join the investigation as and when the

 respondent directs him to do so. 4(ii). Learned Special Prosecutor for the CBI opposed

 . the bail plea on the grounds that:- No timeline can be given for completion of investigation. As

 of now, investigation into K.C. Group of Institutions at

 Pandoga, District Una, has been completed and charge- sheet regarding that has already been presented before the

 competent Court on 30.03.2020 while keeping open the

 investigation under Section 173(8) Cr.PC. 4(ii)(b). Investigation conducted so far has practically

 proved the petitioner to be guilty of grave socio-economic

 offence as not only substantial financial loss has been

 caused to the State Government, but the students of

 weaker sections of society have also been deprived of their

 legitimate due. In the event of conviction of the petitioner,

 severe punishment has been prescribed in law. 4(ii)(c). The respondent has strong apprehension that in

 case of enlargement on bail, petitioner shall try to

 conceal/destroy material documents of K.C. Group of

 Institutions, Nawanshahar, Punjab and influence material ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 16 witnesses/employees of this institute. It has also been

 submitted that prosecution case is based on documentary

 and oral evidence and most of the witnesses belong to the

 . area of the petitioner. Many witnesses are employees of the

 two institutes owned by the petitioner. Therefore, petitioner,

 an influential man, will try to win over the witnesses and

 temper the evidence. It has been alleged that in December,

 2019, petitioner had tried to influence two witnesses by

 calling them and discussed their questioning by CBI. Petitioner will tamper with the evidence, influence the

 witnesses and can also abscond. 4(ii)(d). Earlier bail plea of the petitioner was dismissed

 with the observation that "the magnitude of the scam is

 significant, the accused/petitioner thwarted the

 Government's efforts to create a level playing field for the

 underprivileged students belonging to the weaker sections of

 the society. Let CBI investigate on material aspects." Investigation as yet is still going on. There is no change in

 the circumstances, therefore, bail petition should be

 dismissed. In support of these submissions, reliance upon

 various judgments was placed. 5. Observations:- 5(ii). 22 private institutes were to be investigated by

 the CBI for unearthing illegal disbursement of post-matric

 scholarship funds amounting to Rs.2,09,93,53,223/- by

 private educational institutions, out of which, at present,

 investigations into K.C. Group of Institutions, Pandoga,

 District Una, for embezzlement of scholarship amount of

 Rs.13.19 crore has already been completed. Charge-sheet

 in that regard stands filed before the competent Court on ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 18 30.03.2020 by keeping further investigation open under Section 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The

 respondent is also stated to have investigated into the

 . illegal disbursement of scholarship amounts to the tune of

 Rs.29.80 crores in eight institutes, from where the funds

 were statedly transferred to the accounts of ASA Marketing

 Solutions and about illegal disbursement of scholarship

 funds amounting to Rs.11.33 crores to another K.C. Group

 of Institutions, Nawanshahr, Punjab. 5(iii). Investigation into 17 other private educational

 institutes is yet going on. CBI has not been able to indicate

 any timeline whatsoever about the completion of

 investigation. It has already taken about a year and half for

 completing the investigation of one private institute, i.e.

 K.C. Group of Institutions at Pandoga, District Una. It is yet

 to formally complete the investigation into K.C. Group of

 Institutions at Nawanshahr, Punjab. 5(iv). Present is not a case where multiple FIRs were

 registered with respect to different institutes. One FIR has

 been registered involving all the private educational

 institutes. To obviate the compulsion under Section 167(2)

 Cr.PC, final report has been presented on 30.03.2020

 under Section 173(2) Cr.PC only regarding K.C. Group of ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 19 Institutions, Pandoga, District Una by keeping the

 investigation open under Section 173(8) Cr.PC. Even in this challan, twelve persons have been

 . named as accused, out of which five belong to K.C. Group

 of Institutions, including the petitioner. Four accused

 persons, who were working in different capacities in the

 K.C. Group of Institutions at the relevant time and

 responsible for various transactions in issue, have not been

 arrested. This is despite the fact that all of them are facing

 the same FIR for the same offences. 5(v)(1). In (2017) 13 SCC 751, titled State of Bihar

 and another Versus Amit Kumar @ Bachcha Rai,

 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that bail cannot be granted in

 a mechanical manner to the alleged kingpin of 'Bihar

 Toppers Scam' on the ground that accused was in custody

 for long time. Socio-economic offences constitute a class

 apart and need to be visited with different approach in

 matter of bail. 5(v)(2). Hon'ble Apex Court in (2013) 7 SCC 466, titled

 Nimmajadda Prasad Versus CBI, while observing that

 white collar crimes were on the rise affecting development of

 the country as a whole, held that while granting bail, the

 Court has to keep in mind the nature of accusations, ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 20 nature of evidence in support thereof, severity of

 punishment on conviction, character of accused,

 circumstances peculiar to the accused, reasonable

 . possibility of securing presence of accused at trial,

 reasonable apprehension of witnesses being tempered with,

 larger interests of public/State and other similar

 considerations. At this stage, it is not necessary to establish

 guilt of accused beyond reasonable doubt. Economic

 offences need to be viewed seriously. 5(v)(3). In (2013) 7 SCC 439, titled Y.S. Jagan Mohan

 Reddy v. CBI , Hon'ble Apex Court held that economic

 offences need to be visited with different approach. It was

 held as under vide paras 34 and 35:- 5(v)(4). In (2018) 11 SCC 46, titled Rohit Tandon

 Versus Directorate of Enforcement, involving Prevention

 of Money Laundering Act, 2002 including Section 45 ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 21 thereof, which has overriding effect on general provisions of Cr.PC , it was held that economic offences having deep- rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds

 . need to be viewed seriously and are considered as grave

 offences affecting the economy of the country as a whole. It

 was also expounded that at the stage of considering the bail

 application, it requires to be seen whether the accused had

 requisite mensrea. A balance has to be maintained between

 a judgment of acquittal and conviction and an order

 granting bail. The duty of Court at this stage is not to weigh

 the evidence meticulously but to arrive at a finding on the

 basis of broad probabilities. 5(v)(5). It will also be appropriate to take note of (2012)

 1 SCC 40, titled Sanjay Chandra Versus Central

 Bureau of Investigation, wherein Hon'ble Apex Court

 dealing with the issue of grant of bail in an economic

 offence of formidable magnitude, observed that deprivation

 of liberty must be considered a punishment unless it is

 required to ensure that the accused would stand trial when

 called upon and that Courts owe more than verbal respect

 to the principle that punishment begins after conviction

 and that every man is deemed to be innocent until duly

 tried and found guilty. Object of bail is neither punitive or ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 22 preventive. Hon'ble Court sounded a caveat that it would be

 improper for any Court to refuse bail as a mark of

 disapproval of former conduct whether an accused has

 . been convicted for it or not or to refuse bail to an

 unconvicted person for the purpose of giving him taste of

 imprisonment as a lesson. Discretionary jurisdiction to

 grant bail to an accused pending trial has to be exercised

 with care and caution by balancing valuable right of liberty

 of individual and interest of society in general. Seriousness

 of charge is no doubt one of the relevant consideration

 while examining bail application, but it is not the only

 factor. The grant or denial of bail is regulated to a large

 extent by the facts and circumstances of each case. Detention in custody of undertrial prisoner for an indefinite

 period would amount to violation of Article 21 of the

 Constitution. It was held that it would be contrary to the

 concept of personal liberty enshrined in the constitution

 that any person should be punished in respect of a matter,

 on which he has not been convicted and should be deprived

 of his liberty only on the belief that he will temper with

 witnesses if set free save in extraordinary circumstances. Seriousness of charge is not the only factor to be considered ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 23 while deciding the bail petitions. Paras 21 to 24, 39 and 46

 of the judgment are as under:- These principles were reiterated in (2017) 5 SCC

 218, titled Manoranjana Singh Versus CBI. 5(v)(6). In AIR 2019 SC 5272, titled P. Chidambaram

 Versus Central Bureau of Investigation, CBI had

 opposed the bail plea on the grounds of:- (i) flight risk; (ii)

 tampering with evidence; and (iii) influencing witnesses. The first two contentions were rejected by the High Court. But bail was declined on the ground that possibility of

 influencing the witnesses in the ongoing investigation ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 25 cannot be ruled out. Hon'ble Apex Court after considering

 (2001) 4 SCC 280, titled Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT,

 Delhi and another ; (2004) 7 SCC 528, titled Kalyan

 . Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan and another; (2005)

 2 SCC 13, titled Jayendra Saraswathi Swamigal v. State of Tamil Nadu and (2005) 8 SCC 21, titled State of

 U.P. through CBI v. Amarmani Tripathi, observed as

 under:- 29. FIR was registered by the CBI on 15.05.2017. The appellant
 was granted interim protection on 31.05.2018 till 20.08.2019.
 Till the date, there has been no allegation regarding
 influencing of any witness by the appellant or his men directly
 or indirectly. In the number of remand applications, there was

 . no whisper that any material witness has been approached

 not to disclose information about the appellant and his son. It
 appears that only at the time of opposing the bail and in the
 counter affidavit filed by the CBI before the High Court, the
 averments were made that "....the appellant is trying to

 influence the witnesses and if enlarged on bail, would further
 pressurize the witnesses....". CBI has no direct evidence
 against the appellant regarding the allegation of appellant
 directly or indirectly influencing the witnesses. As rightly
 contended by the learned Senior counsel for the appellant, no

 material particulars were produced before the High Court as to
 when and how those two material witnesses were
 approached. There are no details as to the form of approach of
 those two witnesses either SMS, email, letter or telephonic
 calls and the persons who have approached the material

 witnesses. Details are also not available as to when, where
 and how those witnesses were approached. 31. It is to be pointed out that the respondent - CBI has filed
 remand applications seeking remand of the appellant on
 various dates viz. 22.08.2019, 26.08.2019, 30.08.2019,
 02.09.2019, 05.09.2019 and 19.09.2019 etc. In these
 applications, there were no allegations that the appellant was

 trying to influence the witnesses and that any material
 witnesses (accused) have been approached not to disclose
 information about the appellant and his son. In the absence of
 any contemporaneous materials, no weight could be attached

 to the allegation that the appellant has been influencing the
 witnesses by approaching the witnesses. The conclusion of the
 learned Single Judge "...that it cannot be ruled out that the

 petitioner will not influence the witnesses directly or
 indirectly....." is not substantiated by any materials and is
 only a generalised apprehension and appears to be

 speculative. Mere averments that the appellant approached
 the witnesses and the assertion that the appellant would
 further pressurize the witnesses, without any material basis
 cannot be the reason to deny regular bail to the appellant;
 more so, when the appellant has been in custody for nearly
 two months, co-operated with the investigating agency and the
 charge sheet is also filed. 32. The appellant is not a "flight risk" and in view of the conditions
 imposed, there is no possibility of his abscondence from the
 trial. Statement of the prosecution that the appellant has
 influenced the witnesses and there is likelihood of his further
 influencing the witnesses cannot be the ground to deny bail to ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 27 the appellant particularly, when there is no such whisper in
 the six remand applications filed by the prosecution. The
 charge sheet has been filed against the appellant and other
 co-accused on 18.10.2019. The appellant is in custody from
 21.08.2019 for about two months. The co-accused were
 already granted bail. The appellant is said to be aged 74
 years and is also said to be suffering from age related health

 . problems. Considering the above factors and the facts and

 circumstances of the case, we are of the view that the
 appellant is entitled to be granted bail." 5(v)(7). In 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1549, titled P.

 Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , after

 taking note of various precedents, it was deduced that basic

 jurisprudence relating to a bail remains the same inasmuch

 as the grant of bail is the rule and refusal is the exception

 so as to ensure that the accused has the opportunity of

 securing fair trial. Irrespective of nature and gravity of

 charge, the ultimate consideration will have to be on case to

 case basis on the facts involved therein and securing the

 presence of accused to stand trial. Para 23 of the judgment

 reads as under:- 5(vi). Petitioner is not the sole accused in the charge- sheet filed by the respondent. Eleven other persons are also

 named therein as accused. Four of them besides the

 petitioner belong to K.C. Group of Institutions. But for

 petitioner and his father Sh. Prem Lal Gandhi, the other

 three are the employees of the K.C. Group of Institutions

 and are also alleged to be involved in commission of

 offences. It is only the petitioner, who has been arrested. 5(vii). Out of 22 private educational institutions stated

 to be involved in the scam, respondent as yet has completed

 the investigation only of one private institute. Respondent is

 unable to give any timeline about completion of

 investigation in respect of remaining institutes, though it

 has come in the status report that the respondent has ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 29 conducted searches and seized material and records from

 concerned 22 private institutions. 5(viii). Present is a case where 22 institutes are

 . involved in one FIR and not in multiple FIRs. Charge-sheet

 under the FIR qua one of the institute already stands filed

 through by keeping the investigation open under Section

 173(8) Cr.PC. This was to obviate the compulsion under

 Section 167(2) Cr.PC. 5(ix). Even if present is a case of socio-economic

 offence of serious magnitude and respondent may have

 strong evidence about involvement of the petitioner, yet

 'gravity can only beget length of sentence' provided in law,

 after the trial. Grant of bail cannot be thwarted merely by

 asserting that offence is grave and therefore, petitioner

 should remain in custody till the investigation of all 22

 private educational institutes is completed, regarding

 timeline of which, respondent apparently has no clue. 5(x). Even in cases involving economic offences,

 where there is strong, prima facie, evidence against the

 accused, it cannot be said as a matter of abstract principle

 that bail should invariably be refused. It is impossible to

 hold that an accused should not be granted bail during

 pendency of whole of investigation. 5(xi). The principle laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court

 in Sanjay Chandra's case, supra, and in various other

 pronouncements cannot be lost sight of that punishment

 . begins after conviction and that every man is deemed

 innocent until duly tried and proved guilty. Detention of the

 petitioner, an under-trial prisoner, for an indefinite period

 would amount to violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. Consequences of pre-trial detention are grave. 5(xii). The offending acts are already complete and

 reflected as such in the records. As per the status report,

 voluminous record has already been seized by CBI during

 raids conducted by it in 22 private institutes, though

 investigation is still going on. As per the respondent,

 petitioner is involved only in two out of 22 private

 educational institutes. Charge-sheet in respect of one of the

 petitioner's institute, i.e. K.C. Group of Institutions,

 Pandoga, District Una, stands filed on 30.03.2020, wherein

 allegation of embezzlement of scholarship funds of Rs.13.19

 crores has been levelled. Investigation in respect of the

 second institute of petitioner, i.e. K.C. Group of

 Institutions, Nawanshahr, Punjab, is though stated to be

 going on, however, it appears from the record that

 respondent has already seized a lot of materials and ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 31 documents regarding this institute as well to allege

 embezzlement of scholarship funds of Rs.11.33 crores in

 this institute. The institutes where investigation is yet to be

 . carried out have been spelt out in the status report

 submitted by the respondent in Cr.MP(M) No.1040 of 2020

 as under:- in accordance with law. (ii). Petitioner in any case will report to the Trial
 Court and the investigating officer once in a

 fortnight till the investigation in the case is
 completed in entirety. (iii). Petitioner shall surrender his passport to the

 Trial Court, if not surrendered already. He
 shall not leave India without prior permission
 of the Court. Petitioner shall intimate the

 investigating agency about the place, where he

 shall reside during the investigations and the
 trial. Any change in his place of residence
 shall be immediately notified by him to the

 investigating agency. (iv). Petitioner shall furnish a cell number to the
 investigating officer on which he can be

 contacted at any time. He shall also ensure

 that the number remains active and switched
 on at all times. He shall submit details of his

 Aadhar Card and other proofs of identity with
 the investigating agency. investigation in any manner whatsoever. (vi). Petitioner shall not make any inducement,
 threat or promise directly or indirectly to the ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 35 investigating officer, to the witnesses or to any
 other person acquainted with the facts of the
 case to dissuade him from disclosing such
 facts to the Courts or any Police Officer. . Petitioner shall not maintain any direct or

 indirect contact with officials of bank/
 education department/private educational

 institutions concerned with the case. Petitioner shall not directly or indirectly
 contact the employees of K.C. Group of
 Institutions involved in the case. Petitioner

 shall not deal with any record relevant to the
 case. He shall not prejudice the proceedings in
 the matter. (vii). Petitioner shall attend trial on each and every

 hearing unless exempted by the Court, in
 accordance with law. Any breach, violation or non-compliance of the

 above conditions will be viewed seriously and will give right

 to the investigating agency to seek cancellation of bail. Any

 unwarranted conduct or action of the petitioner

 necessitating recall of bail be brought to the notice of the

 Court. In case of any genuine difficulty being faced due to

 any of the above conditions, it shall be open to the

 petitioner/respondent to move an application seeking

 modification thereof either before this Court or after

 cognizance of the matter before the learned Trial Court as ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP 36 the case may be. Learned Trial Court may impose any other

 condition considered appropriate as and when necessary. It is made clear that observations made above

 . are only for the purpose of adjudication of instant bail

 petition and shall not be construed as an opinion on the

 merits of the matter. Learned Trial Court shall decide the

 matter without being influenced by any of the observations

 made hereinabove. With the aforesaid observations, the present

 petition stands
 r disposed of, so also the pending

 miscellaneous applications, if any. Copy dasti. Jyotsna Rewal Dua
 Judge
 September 24, 2020
 Mukesh ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:57 :::HCHP