Appellants, hereinafter called as accused persons, in

 both the appeals are convicts. The principal accused is Rattan

 Chand, appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 493 of 2015. He has 1 Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the
 Judgment? yes. been convicted by learned Additional Sessions Judge, Chamba,

 District Chamba, H.P. for the commission of the offence

 . punishable under Sections 302 and 404 of the Indian Penal Code,

 whereas acquitted of the charge framed against him under Section 376 of the Code. His co-accused Vikash Puri, the

 appellant in connected appeal No. 176 of 2015 has been held

 guilty and convicted for the commission of offence punishable

 under Section 411 of the Indian Penal Code. Accused Rattan

 Chand has been sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and

 to pay `20,000/- as fine for the commission of offence punishable

 under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and further to

 undergo rigorous imprisonment for three years for the

 commission of offence punishable under Section 404 of the

 Code, whereas accused Vikash Puri has been sentenced to

 undergo rigorous imprisonment for three years and to pay

 `5000/- as fine for the commission of the offence punishable

 under Section 411 of the Indian Penal Code vide judgment dated

 10.4.2015, under challenge in these appeals. 2. On 9.5.2012 Gorkhi, a female, aged 42 years, was

 found dead in Khanera jungle, Pargana Manjer, Tehsil Salooni,

 District Chamba. The police of Police Station, Kihar received

 information in this regard at about 7:35 P.M. over telephone

 which was entered in rapat rojnamcha vide rapat Ext. PW18/C.

 On receipt of the information, PW23 Sub Inspector Darshan Singh ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 3 accompanied by ASI Ishwar Dass, HC Varinder (PW9), HC Bhag

 Singh, C. Satish (PW20), C. Rumel and C. Devi Chand (PW12) left

 . for the spot in official vehicle (Gypsy) No. HP-48-0863. The same

 was being driven by C. Tilak Raj. On the spot, HC Bhupi Ram. C.

 Subhash and Lady Constable Ranjana of Police Station, Salooni

 had already arrived and present. Bal Krishan PW1 son of

 deceased was also present on the spot. He made the statement

 Ext.PW1/A which was recorded by PW 23 Sub Inspector Darshan

 Singh, the then Station House Office, Police Station, Kihar and

 investigating officer of this case. In a nut shell, the complainant

 PW1 has disclosed that on 9.5.2012 around 11:30 A.M. all family

 members had left the home in connection with their respective

 domestic affairs. He along with his wife also left for village

 Bhandal to the house of his paternal aunt (Bua) to attend the

 celebration of birthday of her son there. It is his mother Smt.

 Gorkhi, the deceased, left behind in the house. She told him that

 during day time she will go to forest to collect 'Khasrod' (wild

 vegetable). In the evening when he alongwith his wife returned

 around 3:30 P.M. to the house his younger brother Dharam

 Chand PW5 was present there. His mother, however, was not

 present. He, therefore, called her on her Cell Phone bearing No.

 98169-67124. He in turn received the tone "switched off". He

 contacted his near relations to ascertain as to whether his

 mother Gorkhi has come to them or not. They all told that she ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 4 had not come to them. It is on this, he accompanied by his wife

 Meena Devi went inside the forest adjoining to their house in

 . search of Gorkhi Devi. It is around 6:45 P.M. they noticed that

 she was lying inside the bushes. On touching her body she was

 found dead. Her dupatta was found tied around her neck. Blood

 had oozed out from her nose and mouth. The nose pin, golden

 ear rings and silver chain were found missing from her nose, ears

 and neck. Her cell phone bearing No. 98169-67124 was found

 kept in light yellow coloured bag. However, on checking its SIM

 was found missing. In the bag, little wild vegetable was also

 found kept. Her plastic shoes were also found towards the side

 of her feet. On hearing his cries, the villagers also arrived at that

 place. 3. In view of the statement Ext. PW1/A the deceased

 was found to be strangulated with her dupatta and the SIM of the

 mobile missing. However, who did it and responsible for such

 gruesome act, nothing has come in the statement Ext.PW1/A nor

 the complainant PW1 suspected the hand of someone in the

 commission of this offence. Anyhow, it is during the course of

 investigation allegedly surfaced that accused Rattan Chand was

 in touch with the deceased since pretty long time. They both

 used to speak with each other over cell phones. The accused

 allegedly used to call the deceased from his cell phone bearing

 No. 98167-30076 on her cell phone bearing No. 98169-67124. On the fateful day also, he allegedly made four calls to her i.e.

 07:16:59, 07:45:05, 10:10:59 and 10:40:48 hours. The call detail

 . reports Ext.PW14/B and Ext.PW14/C have been pressed in

 service in this regard. As per the further investigation conducted

 in this matter accused Rattan Chand wanted to subject the

 deceased to sexual intercourse. She allegedly demanded money

 from him. He, however, failed to pay money to her and it is for

 this reasons she did not allow him to commit sexual intercourse

 with her. It is for this reasons he allegedly killed her by way of

 strangulating her with her own dupatta and taken away her

 jewellary i.e. nose pin, silver chain and golden ear rings. He

 allegedly sold the same to his co-accused Vikash Puri, a jeweller

 in Mohalla Lahore Gali, Chougan Chamba town. The charge

 against accused Rattan Chand was framed for the Commission of

 the offence punishable under Sections 376 , 302 and 404 of the

 Indian Penal code, whereas against his co-accused Vikash Puri

 under Section 411 of the code. They, however, pleaded not guilty

 and claimed trial. 4. The prosecution in order to sustain the charge

 against him has examined 23 witnesses in all. The material

 prosecution witnesses are Bal Krishan PW1 and Dharam Chand

 PW5, both sons of the deceased, PW2 Chamaru Ram a witness to

 the recovery of shoes, mobile pone of deceased and plucked wild

 vegetable, PW3 Vinod Kumar a witness to the proof of cell No. ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 6 98167-30076 belongs to accused Rattan Chand. PW4 Surinder

 Kumar is conductor of private bus belonging to Mushtaq Service

 . and as per his version the accused on 9.5.2012 boarded the bus

 being conducted by him at 7:55 A.M. at Sultanpur (Chamba) for

 Salooni and alighted at Sundla. PW6 Mohan Lal is a witness to

 the recovery of Mobile phone make Lawa KKT-34 having duel SIM

 i.e. 98167-30076 and 08057-11328 and currency notes worth

 `10 and coin of `5/-. PW7 Rajesh Kumar is a fellow villager who

 on hearing screams of PW1 Bal Krishan rushed to the spot. Therefore, he is also a witness of the circumstances prevailing on

 the spot on the recovery of dead body of Gorkhi there. PW8

 Sanjesh Kumar is also Conductor of one of bus of Mushtaq

 service. According to him accused Rattan Chand had boarded

 the bus at Sundla for Dudhedi at 8:55 A.M. PW10 Ishwar Kumar

 has also stated that cell phone number of accused Rattan Chand

 was 98167-30076. Kamal Dev PW13 though a witness to the

 recovery of the ornaments from accused Vikash Puri, however,

 turned hostile. PW21 Jagdish is husband of deceased Gorkhi

 Devi. 5. The remaining prosecution witnesses are, however,

 formal being official witnesses having remained associated

 during the course of investigation in one way or the other

 because PW9 HC Varinder Singh accompanied PW23 on receipt of

 the information in Police Station, Kihar. PW11 Dr. Harsh Mahajan ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 7 has conducted the post mortem of the dead body alongwith

 penal of doctors namely Dr. Dushyant Thakur, Dr. Richa Thakur

 . and Dr. Arti Sharma. PW12 LHC Devi Chand also visited the spot

 accompanied by PW23 SI Darshan Singh, the Investigating

 Officer. PW14 Devinder Verma, Nodal Officer, Bharti Airtel

 Limited, Kasumati, Shimla has proved the documents Ext.PW14/A

 to Ext. PW14/C, Ext.PW14/D to Ext.PW14/F which he had supplied

 r to
 to Chamba police on the request made by Superintendent of

 Police Chamba for the purpose. PW15 Yasheen Mohd. is Field

 Kanungo and PW16 Ramesh Chand is the Patwari, Patwar Circle,

 Devgarh. They have proved the application moved by the SHO,

 Police Station, Kihar Ext.PW15/A, the demarcation report

 Ext.PW15/B, the Akas Tatima Ext.PW16/A and Jamabandi

 Ext.PW16/B. PW17 Naresh Kumar is the photographer. He has

 proved the photographs Ext.PW1/B-1 to Ext.PW1/B-6. PW18 HC

 Ramesh Kumar was Moharar Head Constable in Police Station,

 Kihar at the relevant time whereas PW19 HHC Diwan Chand

 while working as General duty constable in the Police Station had

 taken the case property to Forensic Science Laboratory. PW20 C.

 Satish Kumar being a member of police party visited the spot

 had taken the Rukka Ext.PW1/A to police station for registration

 of FIR. PW22 Dr. Vishal Thakur has conducted the medical

 examination of accused Rattan Chand. As noticed at the outset

 PW23 SI Darshan Singh is the Investigating Officer. Since mobile ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 8 cell phone bearing No. 98167-30076 was registered in the name

 of Suresh Kumar, therefore said Shri Suresh Kumar has also been

 . examined. According to him, he has never used this Sim. 6. On completion of the prosecution evidence, the

 statement of accused Rattan Chand was recorded under Section

 313 Cr.P.C. The incriminating circumstances appearing against

 him were put during such examination. He, however, denied the

 same either for want of knowledge or being incorrect. He has

 denied that Cell No. 98167-30076 belongs to him. Though it is

 admitted that he was a tenant of PW10 Ishwar. However, denied

 that he used to speak with his landlord through cell number

 98167-30076. It is stated that he is innocent and has been

 implicated falsely in this case. 7. Accused Vikash Puri has also denied all the

 incriminating circumstances put to him in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. being incorrect. According to him he is

 working as JSW (Man power out sourcer) and not a Goldsmith. 8. Learned trial Judge on hearing learned Public

 Prosecutor and learned defence counsel as well as appreciating

 the oral as well as documentary evidence has held accused

 Rattan Chand guilty for the commission of offence punishable

 under Sections 302 and 404 of the Indian penal Code. His co- accused Vikash Puri has been held guilty for the commission of

 the offence punishable under Section 411 of the Code. They ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 9 both have been convicted and sentenced accordingly as pointed

 out in this judgment at the outset. Accused Rattan Chand has,

 . however, been acquitted of the charge framed against him under Section 376 IPC as no case to this fact was found to be made out. 9. Both the accused aggrieved by the impugned

 judgment and findings of their conviction and sentence have

 questioned the legality thereof before this Court by filing these

 appeals. It has been alleged that learned trial Judge has

 convicted the accused persons on the basis of the evidence

 which was not at all admissible. The evidence has not been

 appreciated in its right perspective and to the contrary the

 findings based on surmises and conjectures. On the face of the

 record the present is a case where two possible views emerges,

 however, irrespective of the settled law that the view favourable

 to the accused must be preferred has been ignored and the

 benefit of doubt denied to them. Accused Rattan Chand had no

 motive to commit the offence when he has been acquitted of the

 charge framed against him under Section 376 IPC. He could

 have not been convicted and sentenced for the commission of

 offence punishable under Sections 302 and 404 of the Indian

 Penal Code. His so called disclosure statement recorded after 4 th

 or 5th day of his arrest after subjecting him to torture being

 violative of Article 20(3) of Constitution of India could have not

 been relied upon on while recording the findings of conviction ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 10 against him. In order to remove all doubts the Investigating

 Officer was required to investigate the matter scientifically and

 . photographed/video-graphed the recovery of ornaments

 pursuant to the alleged disclosure statement made by accused

 Rattan Chand. There was no evidence against accused Vikash

 Puri that he is a Goldsmith. However, irrespective of it, a false

 case that he received the stolen articles from his co-accused

 Rattan Chand has been registered against him. It is, therefore,

 submitted that the impugned judgment is neither legally nor

 factually sustainable, the same has been sought to be quashed

 and set aside. 10. On the completion of the record, we have heard Mr.

 Anup Chitkara, Advocate assisted by Ms. Sheetal Vyas, Advocate

 on behalf of the accused-appellants in both the appeals and Mr.

 Narender Guleria, learned Additional Advocate General on behalf

 of the respondent-State. Mr. Chitkara has argued with all

 vehemence that there is no iota of evidence suggesting the

 involvement of the accused in the commission of the alleged

 offence. No legal and acceptable evidence is stated to have

 come on record to establish that the deceased and accused had

 acquaintance with each other. The scientific investigation and

 the evidence collected in the shape of the detail of calls made

 from Cell Number 98167-30076 on Cell Number 98169-67124

 and vice-versa for want of certificate required to be tendered in ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 11 terms of Section 65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act cannot be

 relied upon. According to Mr. Chitkara the prosecution story that

 . accused Rattan Chand had committed sexual intercourse with

 the deceased and when she demanded money from him killed

 her by way of strangulating her with her own dupatta stood

 discarded by learned trial Judge and the respondent-State has

 not preferred any appeal against the findings of acquittal of

 accused Rattan Chand under Section 376 IPC. Sections 302 or 404 IPC is also made out against him as
 r No case under

 according to Mr. Chitkara the said accused had no occasion nor

 any motive to have strangulated the deceased and killed her. He

 had also no occasion to remove her ornaments allegedly nose

 pin, ear rings and chain. There being no sign of struggle inside

 the bushes where dead body allegedly was found lying, it is

 argued that had the deceased been strangulated and killed there

 she would have definitely struggled for her survival and thereby

 left behind some evidence on the spot. That place according to

 Mr. Chitkara, therefore, cannot be said to be the place of

 occurrence by any stretch of imagination. It is also pointed out

 that while cell Number 98167-30076 belong to PW24 Suresh

 Kumar cell number 98169-67124 to that PW1 Bal Krishan, the

 complainant. It is thus highly doubtful that the accused and

 deceased used to talk with each other over these cell phones. In

 order to remove all doubts in this regard, the voice test atleast ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 12 of accused Rattan Chand would have been conducted and

 compared with his voice if recorded while speaking to the

 . deceased over cell phone number 98169-67124. It has thus

 been urged that the present is a case of no evidence and both

 accused have been convicted and sentenced illegally by leaned

 trial Court. 11. On the other hand, learned Additional Advocate

 General has argued

 that each and every incriminating

 circumstance appearing in the prosecution evidence against both

 accused lead to the only conclusion that it is accused Rattan

 Chand who has killed the deceased and also removed her

 ornaments. The evidence according to learned Additional

 Advocate General further reveals that the ornaments were sold

 by the principal accused to his co-accused Vikash Puri who

 allegedly is a Goldsmith and running his shop in Chamba town. Learned trial Judge, as such, has appreciated the evidence

 available on record in nits right perspective and not committed

 any illegality or irregularity while recording the findings of

 conviction against both the accused. 12. Whether the circumstantial evidence produced by

 the prosecution is sufficient to connect the accused with the

 commission of offence or not is a question to be determined later

 on, however, before that what are legal parameters to appreciate

 the circumstantial evidence as we have enumerated in a ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 13 judgment we recently delivered in Criminal Appeal No. 242 of

 2016, titled Hikmat Bahadur versus State of Himachal . Pradesh and its connected appeal on September 19, 2017 need

 to be discussed. The same reads as follows: 22. The five golden principles, discussed and laid
 down, again by Hon'ble Apex Court in Sharad
 Birdhichand Sarda vs. State of Maharashtra , (1984)

 4 SCC 116, are as follows: (i) the circumstances from which the
 conclusion of guilt is to be drawn must or should be
 and not merely 'may be' fully established, (ii) the facts so established should be

 consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of
 the accused, that is to say, they should not be
 explainable on any other hypothesis except that

 the accused is guilty, (iii) the circumstances should be of a
 conclusive nature and tendency, (iv) They should exclude every possible
 hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (v) there must be a chain of evidence so
 complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for

 the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the
 accused and must show that in all human
 probability the act must have been done by the
 accused."... 21. Similar case is the ratio of judgment

 rendered again by this Bench in State of Himachal

 Pradesh vs. Rayia Urav @ Ajay, ILR 2016 (5)

 (HP) 213. This judgment also reads as follows:- PW12/A in the presence of Kamal Dev (PW13) and C.

 Devi Singh (PW12). 12. Golden and silver ornaments of the deceased Gorkhi

 Devi recovered from the shop of co-accused Vikash

 Puri identified by the husband of the deceased

 Jagdish (PW21). 13. During the daytime of the date of occurrence PW5

 while he was collected the stones in the Khandera

 forest near his house has seen the accused walking ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 20 towards the spot where lateron dead body of

 deceased Gorkhi Devi was recovered. . 14. Identification of the spot where the accused Rattan

 Chand committed the murder of Gorkhi Devi was

 given by the accused Rattan Chand and memo of

 identification Ex.PW5/A was prepared in the

 presence of Dharam Chand (PW5) and Rajesh Kumar 15.
 (PW7). Carbunculus reddish brown in colour of traumatic

 injury over the epigastric area of the accused person

 and as per the Dr. Vishal Thakur (PW22) the hairs on

 the chest of the accused person appears to have

 been plucked during the struggle by the other

 person connect the accused person directly in the

 alleged offence. 13. As a matter of fact, the above circumstances at serial

 Nos. 1 to 4 and 7 not implicates accused Rattan Chand or for that

 matter accused Vikash Puri by any stretch of imagination for the

 reasons that the evidence as has come on record by way of the

 testimony of PW1 Bal Krishan, his brother Dharam Chand PW5,

 father Jagdish PW21, Uncle (Taya) Mohan Lal PW6 and Rajesh

 Kumar PW7 supported by the photographs Ext.PW1/B-1 to

 Ext.PW1/B-6 reveal that Gorkhi Devi was lying dead in Khanera ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 21 forest and ligature around her neck is visible there in the

 photographs. The team of doctors which has conducted the post

 . mortem of the dead body were also of the opinion that she died

 due to strangulation which led to asphyxia and shock also. The

 post mortem report is Ext.PW11/B. The same stand proved from

 the statement of Dr. Harsh Mahajan PW11, one of the members

 of the team of doctors which has conducted the post mortem. In

 the further opinion of the doctors the deceased could have been

 strangulated with dupatta Ext.P11. PW1 Bal Krishan was present

 on the spot as his statement was recorded by Sub Inspector and

 the I.O. of this case PW23 Darshan Singh. Nothing, however, has

 come in the statement of PW23 that Jagdish PW21 the husband

 of the deceased and Dharam Chand PW5, her another son were

 also present there. Though PW23 has stated in his cross- examination that the villagers had gathered on the spot,

 however, when specifically asked about the presence of PW21

 Jagdish, the husband of the deceased, he expressed his inability

 to tell. Anyhow, even if it is believed to be true that PW5

 Dharam Chand, PW7 Rajesh Kumar and PW21 Jagdish were also

 present on the spot where the dead body was lying not at all

 connect accused Rattan Chand with the commission of the

 alleged offence. The call detail reports (CDR) are Ext.PW14/B

 and Ext.PW14/C made from cell numbers 98167-30076 and

 98169-67124. As per these documents the calls from cell ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 22 number 98167-30076 on cell number 98169-67124 have been

 made repeatedly on different dates. The duration of the calls is

 . also in several minutes. PW14 Devinder Verma, Nodal Officer,

 Bharti Airtel, however, not tendered in evidence certificate in

 terms of provisions contained under Section 65(B)(4) of the

 Evidence Act. The Apex Court in Anvar P.V. vs. P.K. Basheer

 and others , AIR 2015 SCC 180 has held that electronic record

 "14. r to
 though is admissible in evidence, however, subject to fulfillment

 of certain conditions. This judgment reads as follow: 15. It is further clarified that the person need
 only to state in the certificate that the same is to

 . the best of his knowledge and belief. Most

 importantly, such a certificate must accompany
 the electronic record like computer printout,

 Compact Disc (CD), Video Compact Disc (VCD),
 pen drive, etc., pertaining to which a statement is
 sought to be given in evidence, when the same is
 produced in evidence. All these safeguards are

 taken to ensure the source and authenticity,
 which are the two hallmarks pertaining to
 electronic record sought to be used as evidence. Electronic records being more susceptible to

 tampering, alteration, transposition, excision, etc.
 without such safeguards, the whole trial based on
 proof of electronic records can lead to travesty of

 justice. 16. Only if the electronic record is duly

 produced in terms of Section 65B of the Evidence

 Act, the question would arise as to the
 genuineness thereof and in that situation, resort
 can be made to Section 45A - opinion of

 examiner of electronic evidence. 17. The Evidence Act does not contemplate
 or permit the proof of an electronic record by oral
 evidence if requirements under Section 65B of
 the Evidence Act are not complied with, as the
 law now stands in India." 14. Similar is the ratio of the judgment again that of the

 Apex Court in Shafhi Mohammad versus State of Himachal . Pradesh, (2018) 2 Supreme Court Cases 801. This judgment

 also reads as follow: for its admissibility may depend on fact

 situation such as whether the person
 producing such evidence is in a position to

 furnish certificate under Section 65B(4). 26. Sections 65A and 65B of the Evidence
 Act, 1872 cannot beheld to be a complete
 code on the subject. In Anvar P.V. (supra), this

 Court in para 24 clarified that primary
 evidence of electronic record was not covered
 under Sections 65A and 65B of the Evidence

 Act. Primary evidence is the document

 produced before Court and the expression
 "document" is defined in Section 3 of the
 Evidence Act to mean any matter expressed

 or described upon any substance by means of
 letters, figures or marks, or by more than one

 of those means, intended to be used, or which
 may be used, for the purpose of recording

 that matter........ 29. The applicability of procedural

 requirement under Section65B(4) of the
 Evidence Act of furnishing certificate is to be
 applied only when such electronic evidence is
 produced by a person who is in a position to
 produce such certificate being in control of
 the said device and not of the opposite party. In a case where electronic evidence is
 produced by a party who is not in possession
 of a device, applicability of Sections 63and 65 of the Evidence Act cannot be held to be ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 26 excluded. In such case, procedure under the
 said Sections can certainly be invoked. If this

 . is not so permitted, it will be denial of justice

 to the person who is in possession of
 authentic evidence/witness but on account of

 manner of proving, such9document is kept
 out of consideration by the court in absence
 of certificate under Section 65B(4) of the
 Evidence Act, which party producing cannot

 possibly secure. Thus, requirement of
 certificate under Section 65B(4) is not always
 mandatory." 15. Therefore, mere tendering the call detail reports

 Ext.PW14/B and Ext.PW14/C is not sufficient to discharge the

 onus that the same constitute primary evidence which is legally

 admissible. Therefore, the circumstances at serial Nos. 1 to 4 and

 7 cannot said to be incriminating or implicate accused Rattan

 Chand by any stretch of imagination nor connect him with the

 commission of offence. True it is that Gorkhi Devi has died in an

 unnatural death, however, it is accused Rattan Chand alone who

 has killed her in the manner as claimed by the prosecution and

 removed her golden nose pin, golden ear rings and silver chain

 from her person, nothing can be said from the above said

 circumstances which have been relied upon by learned trial

 Judge against him. 16. As a matter of fact, only the following circumstances

 emerges from the prosecution evidence against accused Rattan

 . Chand and his co-accused Vikash Puri:- . vi) He removed golden nose pin Ex.P19, golden ear

 rings Ext.P20 and sliver necklace Ext.P21 from her

 person and sold to his co-accused Vikash Puri in his

 shop at Mohalla Lahore Gali, Chougan Chamba town,

 H.P. vii)

 Accused Vikash Puri is a goldsmith by profession and

 running his shop at Mohalla Lahore Gali, Chougan

 Chamba and received the jewellary i.e. nose pin, ear

 rings and chain of the deceased from accused Rattan

 Chand on payment of consideration. 17. It is now to be seen from the evidence available on

 record that the circumstances so pressed by the prosecution in

 service against both the accused stood proved beyond all

 reasonable doubt and the chain of circumstances is complete so

 as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion

 consistence with their innocence and rather that in all

 probabilities the charge against both of them stood established. Circumstance No.I. 18. If coming to the first circumstance pressed in service

 by the prosecution against accused, there is no iota of evidence

 to show that the accused had acquittance with the deceased. The deceased belongs to village Sukrethi, Tehsil Salooni, district

 Chamba whereas accused Rattan Chand was resident of village

 . Uchhanu Tehsil Salooni, district Chamba, of course Tehsil same

 i.e. Salooni. Nothing has come on record as to how they both

 were acquainted with each other. None of the witnesses have

 uttered even a single word qua this aspect of the matter. Similarly, there is also no iota of evidence to show that they both

 r to
 were in living relations and as a consequence thereof enjoying

 sex with each other. The mere assertion that accused Rattan

 Chand had been speaking with the deceased over her cell

 number 98167-67124 through his cell number 98167-30076 for

 the reasons to be discussed hereinafter and also recorded

 hereinabove are not at all proved nor could have been relied

 upon against him by learned trial Court. Therefore, there is no

 legal and acceptable evidence to show that accused Rattan

 Chand had acquittance with deceased Gorkhi. Also that they

 were in living relations and having physical relations also with

 each other. Circumstance No.II & III. 19. Now if coming to the second and third circumstance,

 admittedly cell number 98167-30076 is in the name of PW24

 Suresh Kumar. Though PW24 while in the witness box has

 categorically stated that he never got issued this cell phone

 number in his name nor ever used the same. PW10 Ishwar ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 30 Kumar in whose house accused Rattan Chand resided as tenant

 during October, November, 2011 has also stated that said

 . accused used to call him through cell phone number 98167-

 30076. However, as per his version in cross-examination he has

 not retained any record of calls so made by accused Rattan

 Chand to him. PW3 Vinod Kumar has also stated that accused

 Rattan Chand had been speaking through his cell number 98167-

 30076. However, in his cross examination this witness has

 admitted that cell number of the accused is 98057-11328 and

 not 98167-30076. PW14 Devinder Verma, Nodal Officer, Bharti

 Airtel Limited has stated that cell number 98167-30076 as per

 the record is in the name of Suresh Kumar (PW24). In view of

 such evidence available on record it cannot be said with all

 exactness and accuracy that cell number 98167-30076 was

 under the use and occupation of accused Rattan Chand and that

 it is he alone made calls therefrom to the deceased and for that

 matter to his landlord Ishwar Kumar PW10 or PW3 Vinod Kumar. 20. Now if coming to the prosecution case qua SIM

 Number 98167-30076 allegedly extracted from mobile phone set

 of accused Rattan Chand after his arrest in the presence of PW6

 Mohan Lal and PW7 Rajesh nothing of the sort has come in the

 statements of the said witnesses that the SIM was extracted from

 the mobile set recovered from the accused. According to them

 they were not knowing that the SIM extracted from the set was ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 31 bearing number 98167-30076 and rather as per the testimony of

 Pw6 he had noticed the number of the SIM 98167-30076 when it

 . was being recorded by the I.O. in the papers which he had

 reduced into writing. Therefore, it cannot be inferred from the

 statements of either PW6 or PW7 that SIM number 98167-30076

 was extracted from the mobile phone set allegedly recovered

 from accused Rattan Chand. Even the recovery of the mobile

 set having taken place in the manner as claimed by the

 prosecution has also not been established because there is doubt

 even about the case of the prosecution qua the date and time of

 the arrest of the said accused. In view of the evidence qua this

 aspect of the matter produced by the prosecution itself where

 two views have emerges on record and as per the settled legal

 principles the view in criminal administration of justice

 favourable to the accused has to be given preference over and

 above the view in favour of the prosecution. We may take

 support in this regard from the judgments of the Hon'ble Apex

 Court in T. Subramanian versus State of T. N. , (2006) 1

 Supreme Court Cases 401 and State of Rajsathan versus

 Islam & Others, (2011) 6 Supreme Court Cases, 343. 21. Interestingly enough, mobile phone number 98169-

 67124 was in the name of PW1 Bal Krishan and not in that of his

 mother deceased Gorkhi. Whether he had given the same to her

 for use is again doubtful because his sole testimony in this ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 32 regard cannot taken as a gospel truth. As a matter of fact, the

 recorded audio version in respect of the call made from cell

 . number 98167-30076 over cell number 98169-67124 should

 have been taken to establish beyond all reasonable doubts that

 such version was in the voice of the accused and the deceased. However, no scientific investigation in this regard has been

 conducted. It is, therefore, difficult to believe that the calls from

 deceased to each other. cell number 98167-30076 over cell number 98169-67124 and

 vice-versa have been made by accused Rattan Chand and the

 Learned trial Judge has ignored this

 vital aspect of the matter and placed reliance on the prosecution

 evidence including the call detail reports Ext.PW14/B and

 Ext.PW14/C while recording findings of conviction against the

 accused on having been swayed with the factum of the death of

 Gorkhi, a young lady. Therefore, there is no legal and

 acceptable evidence to arrive at a conclusion that cell number

 98167-30076 was in the exclusive possession and use of accused

 Rattan Chand and that he used to speak with the deceased for

 quite pretty long time. It is also not established that they were

 acquainted with each other and on 9.5.2012 also they settled

 their meeting in the forest by speaking over cell phone with each

 other. The evidence qua recovery of Sim No. 98167-30076 from

 Mobile set allegedly taken into possession from accused after his

 arrest in the presence of PW-6 Mohan and his son PW-7 Rajesh ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 33 Kumar hardly inspires any confidence as the witnesses being

 brother-in-law (Jeth) and nephew of the deceased, were in her

 . relation, hence interested in the success of the prosecution case. 22. The prosecution case that the accused committed

 sexual intercourse with the deceased and that when she

 demanded money strangulated her with her own dupatta and

 thereby caused her death even has been discarded by learned

 r to
 trial Court also while acquitting accused Rattan Chand of the

 charge under Section 376 IPC. The respondent-State has not

 assailed the findings of acquittal so recorded by learned trial

 Court any further in this Court by way of filing separate appeal. This also substantiate the view of the matter taken by this Court. Therefore, both alleged incriminating circumstances appearing in

 the prosecution case against accused Rattan Chand has also not

 been proved from the evidence available on record beyond all

 reasonable doubt. Circumstance No.IV. 23. Now if coming to the incriminating circumstance at

 serial Number (iv) noted hereinabove, we fail to understand as to

 how the same could have been pressed against accused Rattan

 Chand even if it is believed that he boarded the bus of "Mushtaq

 Bus Service" firstly at Sultanpur and alighted therefrom at

 Sundla and subsequently another bus of the same bus service at

 Sundla and alighted there from at a place namely Dudhedi and ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 34 after having alighted from the bus at Dudhedi he went to forest

 Khanera where the deceased was already present and waiting for

 . him. PW1 Bal Krishan though has stated in his statement under Section 154 Cr.P.C. (Ext.PW1/A) that while living to his maternal

 aunt house alongwith his family for participating the celebration

 of birthday of someone there, his mother deceased Gorkhi told

 that she would be going to forest for collecting Khasrod (wild

 however,

 vegetable) during day time. However, such story seems to have

 been engineered and fabricated to complete the chain of

 circumstances,

 unsuccessfully because his bald

 statement in this regard cannot be believed as a gospel truth. Otherwise also, there seems to be no grain of truth in this part of

 the statement he made for the reasons that Gorkhi had no

 occasion to have apprised him that during day time she should

 be going to forest to collect the wild vegetable being a matter of

 routine in the case of a house wife. PW-1 as such has rightly

 admitted that other villagers also used to go to the forest to

 collect vegetables. The place where the dead body was found

 lying was not very far away from the house of the complainant

 party being only one kilometer away therefrom as has come in

 the statement of PW1. In this view of the matter also the

 deceased had no occasion to tell PW-1 that during day time she

 will to to bring Khasrod from the forest as it was nearby situated. 24. Even had the accused after alighting from the bus

 at Dudhedi went to the forest, the meeting point they allegedly

 . fixed while speaking over cell phone in the morning on that day

 he would have been seen while going there by someone. In view

 of the apprehension of other villagers may have also visited the

 forest to collect the wild vegetable neither the deceased would

 have taken the risk of allowing herself to be exposed sexually by

 the said accused nor could he have murdered her in the manner

 as claimed by the prosecution that too when in living relation

 with her and also if in love with each other. No sane person is

 expected to murder his own paramour on the demand of money

 that too after he having already enjoyed sex with her. In the

 event of shehaving demanded money from him in normal course

 he would have left her on the spot itself and left for his abode. No

 doubt, the another son of the deceased Dharam Chand has

 stated that accused Rattan Chand was noticed by him around

 3:00 P.M. on that day while going towards the place where the

 dead body was found lying later on. However, as per his own

 admission in cross-examination he did not disclose this fact to

 anyone till 13.5.2012 the day when his statement for the first

 time was recorded by the police. Surprisingly enough, he having

 seen the accused going towards the place where the dead body

 was lying an important fact for the purpose of this case could

 have not been concealed by him from others for such a long time ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 36 and rather disclosed at the earliest available opportunity to do

 so. Not only this, but in his statement recorded under Section

 . 161 Cr.P.C . on 13.5.2012 this fact does not find mention. Therefore, he has not seen accused Rattan Chand going towards

 forest where the dead body was lying and the story to this fact

 has also been fabricated and engineered later on to implicate the

 accused falsely. 25.

 True it is that as per the testimony of PW 4 Surinder

 Kumar, the conductor of the bus accused Rattan Chand boarded

 the bus from Sultanpur and alighted therefrom at Sundla and as

 per that of PW8 Sanjesh Kumar, the conductor of the same bus

 service he later on boarded the bus at Salooni and alighted at

 Dudhedi. However, according to PW4, twenty five other

 passengers were also travelling in that bus, whereas according

 to PW8, fifteen other passengers were travelling in the bus which

 was being conducted by him at that time. In their cross- examination they both have expressed their inability to tell

 names of such other passengers travelling in the bus. No doubt,

 PW8 has given the names of two passengers which according to

 him were travelling regularly in the said bus. Therefore, when

 both PW-7 and PW-8 could not recollect the names of other

 passengers who were travelling in the buses being conducted by

 them on that day how they could have recollect the name of

 accused Rattan Chand when he was not travelling regularly in ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 37 these buses. Therefore, PWs 4 and 8 also seems to be stock

 witnesses and have deposed falsely at the behest of the police

 . to the reasons best known to them. 26. It is thus not proved at all that the accused boarded

 buses of "Mushtaq Bus Service" on that day from two different

 places and came to meet the deceased. Learned trial Judge was,

 therefore, not justified in placing reliance on this aspect of the

 matter also. 27. While discussing the incriminating circumstance at

 serial Number (iv) and recording findings thereon hereinabove,

 we have already observed that accused Rattan Chand has

 neither boarded the buses of Mushtaq Bus Services at two

 different places nor met the deceased on that day. Also that he

 never contacted her on that day over cell phone and fixed the

 place of his meeting with her. Therefore, the question does not

 arise that he committed sexual intercourse with her on that day. Also that she demanded money from him and it is for this reason

 he strangulated her with her own dupatta and caused her death

 thereby, we have already observed that had he been in love with

 the deceased would have never killed her merely on the demand

 of money by her from him because by that time as per the case

 of the prosecution itself he has already enjoyed sex with her,

 therefore, would have left the place leaving her alone behind. Otherwise also the prosecution has failed to prove that accused

 Rattan Chand had subjected her to sexual intercourse on that

 . day. It is for this reason he has been acquitted of the charge

 under Section 376 IPC. The story, therefore, in this regard has

 also been engineered and fabricated. Learned trial Judge has

 gravely erred while placing reliance upon such circumstances

 which were not at all proved on record. 28. to
 Circumstance No.VI. The next circumstance pertains to removal of golden

 nose pin, golden ear rings and silver chain from the person of the

 deceased and selling the same to his co-accused Vikash Puri. This circumstance could have not been used against accused

 Rattan Chand and for that matter accused Vikash Puri also for

 the reasons that the same belongs to the deceased alone and

 none else. No legal and acceptable evidence has either been

 collected or brought on record. The ornaments were not got

 identified from someone including Bal Krishan PW1 the son of

 deceased and PW21 her husband who could have seen the same

 borne by her in ears, nose or neck. Even PW21 while in the

 witness box has also not stated that the ornaments belongs to

 his wife. The witnesses to the recovery of the ornaments are

 PW12 LHC Devi Chand and PW13 Kamal Dev. Though PW12

 while in the witness box has stated about the recovery of the

 ornaments from the shop of goldsmith situated in Dogra Bazar, ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 39 Chamba town in his presence. However, PW13 has not supported

 the prosecution case in this regard at all and rather turned

 . hostile. He has been subjected to lengthy cross examination by

 learned Public Prosecutor, however, nothing material lending

 support to the prosecution case could be elicited therefrom. On

 the other hand, the contradictory statements of PWs 12 and 13

 qua this aspect of the matter has casted serious doubts qua this

 part of the prosecution story. Therefore, in view of the judgment

 of the Apex Court cited hereinabove, the benefit of doubt in this

 regard should have been given to accused Rattan Chand and this

 circumstance not used against him. Circumstance No.VII. 29. Interestingly enough, no legal and acceptable

 evidence has come on record that accused Vikash Puri is a

 Goldsmith by profession and running his shop situated at Mohalla

 Lahore Gali, Chougan, Chamba town. On the other hand, as per

 his own admission in his statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. he is JSW by profession and it is his father who is a

 Goldsmith and running the shop in question. Such version of the

 accused is nearer to the factual position as there is no evidence

 to show that he was a Goldsmith and that it is he who was

 running the said shop from where the recovery was made. Otherwise also, as per the own admission of the I.O. PW23 the

 ornaments Ex.P19, Ext.P20 and Ext.P21 are normally available ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 40 with other ladies also. Being so, it cannot be said that the

 ornaments were of the deceased and that the same were

 . removed by accused Rattan Chand from her person after causing

 her death and sold to his co-accused Vikash Puri. Therefore,

 learned trial Judge has committed illegality while using such

 circumstance against the accused. 30. In view of the discussion hereinabove, we are

 satisfied that the present is a case of no evidence against the

 accused persons. Whatever evidence having come on record by

 way of the statements of the interested witnesses i.e. PW1 Bal

 Krishan the complainant, PW5, Dharam Chand, PW21 Jagdish and

 PW6 Mohan Lal as well as PW7 Rajesh Kumar cannot be relied

 upon as they all being closely related with the deceased were

 interested in the success of the prosecution case. Learned trial

 Court has not appreciated the evidence available on record in its

 right perspective and to the contrary has recorded the findings of

 conviction against both the accused on the basis of conjectures

 and surmises. Such an approach has certainly resulted in mis- carriage of justice to the accused. They both are innocent,

 however, learned trial Judge has convicted and sentenced them

 while placing reliance on highly inadmissible evidence. The

 impugned judgment as such is neither legally nor factually

 sustainable. We, therefore, quash and set aside the same. Consequently, accused Rattan Chand is acquitted of the charge ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP 41 framed against him under Sections 302 and 404 of the Indian

 Penal Code. His co-accused Vikash Puri is also acquitted of the

 . charge framed under Section 411 of the Code. Accused Vikash

 Puri is already on bail. In view of his acquittal of the charge

 framed against him, personal bonds executed by him will stand

 cancelled and surety discharged. 31. As regard accused Rattan Chand, he is serving out

 the sentence. r He be released forthwith, if not required in any

 other case, however, subject to his furnishing personal bond in

 the sum of `25,000/- with one surety in the like amount to the

 satisfaction of learned Additional Sessions Judge, Chamba,

 undertaking specifically therein that in the event of an appeal is

 preferred against this judgment, he shall appear in the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court. 32. Both appeals are disposed of accordingly. (Dharam Chand Chaudhary),
 Judge. (Chander Bhusan Barowalia),
 March 28, 2019. Judge. ( vs) ::: Downloaded on - 29/03/2019 21:58:58 :::HCHP