Shri Abhijeet Awasthi - Dy. Advocate General for the respondent

 No.1/State. The Office is requested to reflect the name of Shri Gaurav Tiwari,

 Advocate for the M.P. Online in the cause list. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner has asked for the full data relating

 to the Paramedical Colleges. Learned Senior Counsel appearing on

 behalf of the Paramedical Council has informed the Court that the

 data contains third party information and therefore, he is objecting

 to same being handed over to the petitioner. We have considered the

 objection of the learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the

 Paramedical Council. The limited information and data to which this

 Court has been taken through by the petitioner, prima facie, reflects

 that certain irregularities have taken place. Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHRUTI JHA Signing time: 12-08- 2025 11:08:33 2 3. Learned counsel for the respondents No.2 and 4/Paramedical

 Council has also addressed the Court in relation to SLP

 (Civil) No.20721/2025 by which the order passed by this Court on

 16.07.2025 in W.P. No.27497/2025 has been stayed by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court. Learned counsel for the Paramedical Council has

 also submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has also questioned

 the locus standi of the respondents No.2 and 4 (before the Supreme

 Court) to question the actions of the Paramedical Council. The

 question of locus has to be answered by respondents No.2 and 4

 before the Supreme Court. However, while passing the order dated

 16.07.2025, this Court has prima facie taken cognizance of what

 appears to the illegalities/irregularities in the manner in which

 recognition was granted to certain Paramedical Colleges in the State

 of M.P., which learned counsel for the petitioner has revealed

 through photographs that the same establishment has been used for

 the Nursing Colleges and the Paramedical Colleges and only a flex

 sign is pulled over the upper portion of the college as and when the

 inspection takes place either for the Nursing College or for the

 Paramedical College. It was on that basis that this Court took a prima

 facie view that all may not be well in the manner in which

 recognitions have been granted by the Paramedical Council and Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHRUTI JHA Signing time: 12-08- 2025 11:08:33 3 Nursing Council to these colleges, and as it relates to public health,

 and the fact that those who pass out from Paramedical Colleges or

 Nursing Colleges may be employed in the various hospitals of the

 State of M.P., and if they are receiving their training from

 institutions which are fly by night operatives, such persons may pose

 a grave risk to the health of the people of the Madhya Pradesh. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has asked for the documents

 pertaining to the grant of recognition to the various paramedical

 colleges by the Paramedical Council. Objecting to this, learned

 Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the respondents No.2 and

 4/Paramedical Council has submitted that as the question of locus

 standi of the petitioner itself is pending before the Supreme Court, it

 may not be appropriate to hand over the documents to the counsel

 for the petitioner at this stage. We are in agreement with the

 submission put forth by the learned counsel for the Paramedical

 Council as the locus standi of the petitioner herein itself is under

 scrutiny before the Supreme Court, it may not be appropriate to hand

 over the documents pertaining to recognition granted to the

 Paramedical Colleges to the petitioner at this juncture, for if the

 Supreme Court holds that the petitioner/Law Students Association

 does not have a locus standi to question the recognitions given to the Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHRUTI JHA Signing time: 12-08- 2025 11:08:33 4 Paramedical Colleges, then the possession of the data relating to the

 grant of recognition to the colleges by the Paramedical Council with

 the petitioners would be undesirable. 5. Ld. counsel for the Paramedical Council is submitting to this Court

 a soft copy of the documentation pertaining to the recognition

 granted by the M.P. Paramedical Council to the various Paramedical

 Colleges in the State of Madhya Pradesh, as is already available in

 soft copy today itself, the remaining shall be given to this Court as

 and when they are digitized. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner has drawn the Court's attention to

 that part of the minutes of the meeting of the Executive Council of

 the Madhya Pradesh Medical Science University which requires the

 Quality Council of India to conduct an inspection of the Paramedical

 Institutions. Learned counsel for the petitioner has desired that a

 direction be given to the Quality Council of India that the report to

 be filed by them gives specific finding that the infrastructure they

 have inspected are exclusively being used as Paramedical Colleges,

 and that the same infrastructure is not being shared for use as a

 nursing college or any other establishment. Learned Senior Counsel

 appearing on behalf of the Paramedical Council has taken grave

 objection to this. He has also submitted that this Court is needlessly Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHRUTI JHA Signing time: 12-08- 2025 11:08:33 5 expanding the scope of this petition, which is not so required. He has

 further submitted that there are four institutions/organizations,

 which are looking into the establishment and conduct of the

 Paramedical Colleges and a specific direction to that effect is not

 required to be passed by this Court. He has also posed the question

 to this Court whether it has no faith in any of the institutions vested

 with the task of inspecting and granting recognition to paramedical

 colleges? The question is justified and warrants an answer from this

 Court. 7. The conundrum that the Court faces is similar to the metaphorical

 farmer who fences his field to protect his crop from animals foraging

 for food at night, only to wake up the next morning to witness the

 fence eating the crop. Regulatory authorities and investigating

 agencies are the proverbial fence. The wellbeing and safety of the

 average citizen of this state (and the country) depends on the

 discharge of function by these institutions with unquestionable and

 absolute integrity and dedication, with adherence to norms and

 regulations being nothing short of 100%. But is that how it has been

 in recent times? 8. In August 2023, the CBI filed a corruption case against an Assistant

 Director of the Enforcement Directorate in a five crore pay off case Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHRUTI JHA Signing time: 12-08- 2025 11:08:33 6 to protect a Delhi based businessman in the Delhi Excise Policy case

 of 2020-211. An extract from the order of the High Court of Delhi

 in a case being investigated by the CBI is telling and it reads thus "It

 is one of the unique cases of rampant corruption in CBI, ED and

 such other Departments, which shakes the entire edifice of our

 Executive and the Investigating machinery which have the

 primary duty of investigations in crime and bring the culprits to

 face the Penalty Corruption. From the averments made in the

 Complaint it emerges that it is not one stand alone case of

 corruption by the Government official, but it reflects a large

 conspiracy amongst the officials of various Departments who

 have in a nexus and take bribes for giving undue advantage to

 the approaching party or even to impact and interfere in the fair

 investigations and the functioning of these Government

 Department"2. It was a case where one of the officers of the CBI

 was caught red handed taking a bribe of rupees 3.5 lakhs3. Then in

 July 2025 came the admission of the Ministry of Finance that there

 have been at least eleven instances of corruption by the officer of the 1 FIR against ED official who got bribes to save bizman in Delhi excise case: CBI | Latest News India -
 Hindustan Times 2 One Unique Case Of Rampant Corruption In CBI, ED, Which Shakes The Entire Edifice Of Our Executive &
 Investigating Machinery: Delhi HC Grants Custody Of Three Government Officials 3 From Investigators to Accused: CBI Officers Caught in Web of Corruption - The420.in Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHRUTI JHA Signing time: 12-08- 2025 11:08:33 7 Enforcement Directorate in the past five years when officers of the

 Enforcement Directorate have been arrested and charged for

 accepting bribes4. These, of course, are those cases which have been

 detected. The site www.inventia.co.in has referred to the report of

 "Transparency International" in collaboration with "Local Circles" 9. The problem is one of trust deficit and not the complete absence of

 trust. In the initial stage of the PIL examining the Nursing Colleges

 Scam (the Ld. Counsel for the Nursing Council has requested this 4 Bribery Allegations Surface Against ED Officials; 11 Cases Reported in 5 Years 5 Top 10 Most Corrupt Departments In India - Inventiva 6 CBI Probes Pharmacy Council Corruption, Chief Raided For Multi-Crore Scam Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHRUTI JHA Signing time: 12-08- 2025 11:08:33 8 Court not to refer to it as a "scam" but that is how it is already being

 referred to in the public domain since January 2025 itself7), the Court

 had directed the CBI to carry out the verification of the Nursing

 Colleges and give its report. Several Officers of the CBI were

 allegedly corrupted by some of the Nursing Colleges on account of

 which the CBI itself registered an FIR against those Officers. So, the

 question is, who can the Court believe in such a situation, where

 money speaks and integrity has no value for some within these

 institutions. The kind of environment that exists today is that it is not

 a crime to be dishonest as long as one is not caught. As already stated

 hereinabove, this is not a case of absence of trust, but one of trust

 deficit. So, while the presumption in the eyes of the Court is that all

 officers in these institutions are honest till strongly suspected to be

 otherwise on account of their actions or omissions calling for a probe

 into their actions, and till such time, it would be in order if this Court

 is watchful without being intrusive, into the actions of these

 institutions while they probe the sanctity of the process by which the

 colleges in question were granted recognition. In such a scenario,

 this Court finds no harm in the prayer of the learned counsel for the

 petitioner that the QCI be directed to specifically endorse in the 7 Nursing Scam: CBI Report on 254 Nursing Colleges Submitted to HC: Nursing Scam Update | Bhopal News -
 Times of India Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHRUTI JHA Signing time: 12-08- 2025 11:08:33 9 course of inspecting the Paramedical Colleges that no other

 establishment/institution like Nursing College or any other

 Educational Institution is sharing the resource and space from where

 the Paramedical College is running. Such a step shall only be by way

 of abundant caution, and it would hurt nobody. Therefore, this Court

 directs the QCI that for every Paramedical College that they inspect

 for compliance and suitability, shall also endorse that there is no

 other institution/establishment being run from the same

 infrastructure. 10. List this case on 12.08.2025 along with W.P. No.1080/2022.