Criminal Original Petition No.4764 of 2008 is filed by A10 A.Ravishankar Prasad, A11 A.Manohar Prasad and A12 M/s.Ravishankar Films Private Limited represented by A10 and A11 in C.C.No.71 of 2001; Criminal Original Petition No.4765 of 2008 is filed by the very same two accused figuring as A5 and A6 and A8-M/s.Gemini Arts (P) Limited represented by A5, A6 and A7 in C.C.No.80 of 2001; Criminal Original Petition No.4766 of 2008 is filed by the very same two accused figuring as A5 and A6 and A7-M/s.Gemini Pictures Circuits (P) Limited represented by A.Ravishankar Prasad in C.C.No.81 of 2001; and
	Criminal Original Petition No.4767 of 2008 is filed by the very same two accused figuring as A4 and A5 and A6-M/s.Prasad Properties & Investments (P) Limited represented by A4 and A5 in C.C.No.82 of 2001 
seeking quashment of the aforesaid criminal proceedings initiated against them. 2. The petitioners in Criminal Original Petition No.4764 of 2008 have been charged under sections 120B read with 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . The petitioners in Criminal Original Petition No.4765 of 2008 have been charged under sections 120B read with 420 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 13(2) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The petitioners in Criminal Original Petition No.4766 of 2008 have been charged under sections 120B read with 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 13(2) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The petitioners in Criminal Original Petition No.4767 of 2008 have been charged under sections 120B read with 420, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code and under sections 13(2) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. 3. As the parties are same and the charges similar, all the four cases are taken up for common disposal. 4. The sum and substance of the plea of the petitioners found in all these petitions seeking quashment is as follows:- 5. The stand of the respondent-CBI taken in the counter filed by them in Criminal Original Petitions 4764 to 4767 of 2008 is as follows:- 6. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners in Criminal Original Petition Nos.4764 to 4767 of 2008 would submit that there was no diversion outside the sister concerns of the petitioners. A settlement was arrived at between the petitioners and the Indian Bank before the DRT and the entire amount was already paid with interest and legal charges. There was no intention to cheat the Bank at the inception of the loan transaction. Even before launching the prosecution, the Indian Bank had already approached the DRT seeking to recover the amount due from the petitioners. No witness has attributed anything against these petitioners during the course of evidence. The transaction between the petitioners and the Bank is essentially civil in nature. Therefore, continuance of the criminal proceedings as against the petitioners is only an exercise in futility. 7. Learned Special Public Prosecutor for Central Bureau of Investigation would vehemently contend that it is unfair to plea for quashing the entire criminal proceedings when the trial is at a crucial stage. Settlement of the loan transaction between the parties will not absolve the petitioners from other criminal liabilities. When the trial is in progress, in all fairness, the superior court should permit the Trial Court to continue the trial proceedings and pass necessary verdict. The petitions have been filed seeking quashment late in point of time. Therefore, he would submit that quashing of the proceedings will not be in the interest of justice. 8. The main charges framed as against the petitioners are that they received pecuniary advantage as loans and advances causing heavy loss to the Indian Bank. They also induced the co-accused to press into service certain documents for availing loan facilities. They also did not made the payments on due dates. In C.C.No.71 of 2001, there are 30 accused. 53 charges have been framed as against the aforesaid 30 accused. The trial has begun about seven years ago and 21 witnesses have so far been examined out of 93 witnesses cited. In C.C.No.80 of 2001, there are totally eight accused, who face 12 charges. So far 42 witnesses have been examined. In C.C.No.81 of 2001, 14 charges have been framed against eight accused. 18 witnesses have so far been examined. In C.C.No.82 of 2001, so far 11 witnesses have been examined. All the witnesses so far examined have spoken to about the banking procedure in sanctioning the loan and the lapse committed by the Bank officials in extending loan facilities sought for by the petitioners. They have not deposed to the charges of conspiracy, cheating and forgery of documents. 9. The Supreme Court, in STATE OF DELHI v. GYAN DEVI (2000 SCC (Cri) 1486) has held that the High Court should not exercise the inherent jurisdiction under section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure except for strong reasons to hold that in the interest of justice and in order to avoid the abuse of the process of court the charge needed to be quashed. Further, the aforesaid exercise of the power should be confined to exceptional cases and rare occasions. The High Court should have sifted the available medical evidence in exercise of its jurisdiction under section 482, and quashed the charge on the ground that in view of the said evidence, the charge in question could not have been framed by the Trial Court. 10. The ratio laid down by the Supreme Court is that the inherent jurisdiction under section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be exercised in a very crucial manner when materials are available for prosecuting the accused. Only in rare cases where there had been the abuse of the process of the courts, the court can interfere to quash the criminal proceedings. 11. In STATE OF ORISSA v. SARAJ KUMAR SAHOO ((2006) 2 SCC (Cri) 272), the Supreme Court has laid down that section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure can be invoked to do real and substantial justice and not to stifle the legitimate progress. True that no hard and fast rule can be laid down as regards the case where such a power can be exercised, but, the High Court, being the Highest Court of State, should normally refrain from giving decision in a case where the entire facts are incomplete and hazy. The High Court should not ordinarily embark upon an enquiry as to the reliability of the evidence to sustain the allegations which is primarily the function of the Trial Judge. 12. In the instant case, the where Indian Bank had approached the DRT wayback in the year 1997 for the recovery of the outstanding dues from the petitioners who availed loan from them. But, it is found that criminal prosecution by the Bank has been initiated only in the year 1998. The non-payment of the dues to the Bank by the petitioners inspite of the civil litigation launched by the Indian Bank has basically provoked the Indian Bank to launch the criminal prosecution as against the petitioners. In commercial ventures, borrowal, repayment and failure to make due payments on account of certain fiscal exigencies are quite common. Had the entire dues outstanding been paid by the petitioners, the Bank would not have thought of launching prosecution as against these petitioners. In other words, if the petitioners had settled the entire dues before the DRT before launching the prosecution by the Indian Bank, probably the petitioners would not have faced the ordeal of the trial presently launched as against them. 13. The dispute between the Indian Bank and the petitioners herein was essentially civil in nature. The entire case of the prosecution reflects prominently civil profile. The petitioners have availed totally a sum of about 121 Crores from the Indian Bank. The petitioners had not run away from the civil liability. In fact, they had come out with the alternative proposal for settlement of the dues long prior to the prosecution launched by the Indian Bank. The petitioners having admitted their liability have clinched amicable settlement before the DRT and as a result of which a sum of Rs.157 crores including interest and legal charges were paid as one time settlement with penal interest on 28.3.2007. The Indian Bank also had filed full satisfaction memo before the DRT, Chennai on 5.4.2007. In fact, the DRT, Chennai passed an order on 9.4.2007 approving the one time settlement and closed the applications filed by the Indian Bank as withdrawn. The DRT, Chennai also ordered release of the original documents pertaining to various properties mortgaged with the Bank by the petitioners. As such, there was no loss to the Bank or to the public. 14. It has been observed by the Supreme Court in CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. DUNCANS AGRO INDUSTRIES LTD (1996 SCC (Cri) 1045) as follows:- 15. The aforesaid observation squarely applies to the facts and circumstances of the case. That was also a case where there was a suit for recovery of the dues of the Banks from the accused. A compromise was arrived at and as a consequence of which, a compromise decree was also passed in the suits instituted by the Banks. The Supreme Court has laid down that for all intent and purpose, repayment of the amount as a result of the compromise decree between the parties would amount to compounding the offence of cheating. 16. The learned Special Public Prosecutor for Central Bureau of Investigation would submit that only in a case where the investigation was pending, the Supreme Court was pleased to quash the entire criminal proceedings on the ground that dues were already settled by the accused to the bank. But, in the considered opinion of this court, the aforesaid ratio would squarely apply even in a case where the trial is pending. 17. The learned Special Public Prosecutor for Central Bureau of Investigation would refer to an authority reported in INSPECTOR OF POLICE, Central Bureau of Investigation v. B.RAJA GOPAL AND OTHERS (2002(3) SUPREME 207) wherein the Supreme Court has held that when a trial was in progress and reached almost the penultimate stage, the criminal proceedings as against the accused for offences under sections 420 , 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code should not be quashed on the ground that there was a compromise between the Bank officials and the accused and the disputed amount found due from the accused was paid later. The Supreme Court has further observed that such a development may be a ground for pleading mitigation of sentence at the final stage of trial of the case. 18. Firstly, it is found that the aforesaid proceedings seeking quashment was embarked upon by the High Court when almost all the witnesses were examined. Secondly, it is found that the ratio laid down in DUNCANS AGRO INDUSTRIES case was not referred to in the aforesaid authority pronounced later by the Supreme Court. In the case on hand, it is found that many of the witnesses will have to be examined yet. The petitioners have already faced trial for about seven long years. It will definitely take another two or three years for completion of the trial of the case before the Trial Court. Therefore, this court heavily relies upon the decision rendered by the Supreme Court in DUNCANS AGRO INDUSTRIES case. 19. It was not attributed that there was intention on the part of the petitioners to cheat the Bank at the very inception of the loan transaction. If there had been such an evil intention on the part of the petitioners in clinching the loan transaction with the Bank, the Bank would have first laid the criminal complaint and thereafter plunged into action for recovery of the dues. The Bank would not have first approached the civil court seeking recovery of the dues from the petitioners. It is found that the criminal complaint has been lodged by the Bank after a lapse of one year from the date of laying the civil suit only out of frustration that they could not recover whopping dues from the petitioners even after the civil litigation was laid as against them. 20. It is also not a case of diversion of funds raised from the Bank to a non-existent Company or to a Company totally unconnected with the third petitioner Company. The materials collected would unerringly show that some of the funds had been used for the growth of the sister concerns of the third petitioner company. Sufficient security also has been furnished by the petitioners in the form of immovable property for the loan transaction they had clinched with the Indian Bank. 21. In STATE OF ORISSA v. DEBENDRA NATH PADHI (2005 SCC (Cri) 415), it has been held that the Trial Court shall consider only the materials produced by the prosecution and not the materials produced by the accused at the time of framing the charges. 22. The present case is in the midway of trial. The admitted position is that the petitioners have settled their dues as per the settlement arrived at between them by the DRT. Firstly, no document is required for establishing an admitted fact. Secondly, the present case is not at the stage of framing of the charges. Therefore, the aforesaid authority does not apply to the facts and circumstances of the case. 23. The Supreme Court in AMAR CHAND v. SHANTI BOSE (AIR 1973 SC 799) has held as follows:- 24. That was a case where a termination of the trial was short of only two witnesses on the side of the prosecution. Almost all the oral and documentary evidence had already been let in. In such circumstances, the Supreme Court observed that the High Court should have allowed the proceedings to reach its logical end without interfering therewith. 25. But, in this case, it is found that though the petitioners have so far faced the trial for about seven long years, they will have to face the ordeal of trial for another two or three years for conclusion of the trial of the case. Therefore, it is not a case where the petitioners have come before this court at the fag end of the trial of the case. When the witnesses have not spoken any thing about the role of these petitioners and the materials exhibited also do not indicate the involvement of these petitioners in any of the cases and the petitioners have already settled the dues to the Indian Bank and the Indian Bank has also withdrawn the applications, the continuance of the trial which is only an exercise in futility will be a harassment to the petitioners. 26. It is relevant to refer to the observation made in INDER MOHAN GOSWAMI v. STATE OF UTTARANCHAL ((2008) 1 SCC (Cri) 259) as under:- 27. If the court comes to the decision that continuance of the prosecution would be a harassment to the accused, then the court will have to go to the rescue of the accused at any stage of the proceedings. 28. In the above facts and circumstances, to secure the ends of justice, the entire criminal proceedings in C.C. Nos.71, 80, 81 and 82 of 2001 as against these petitioners are quashed and consequently, Criminal Original Petition Nos.4764 to 4767 of 2008 are allowed. 30.4.2008. Index: Yes/No.
Internet: Yes/No.
ssk. To

The Additional Special Judge 
for CBI Cases, Chennai. MEMO IN 
CRL.O.P.Nos.4764 TO 4767 OF 2008
M.JEYAPAUL, J. The memo is filed by the Special Public Prosecutor for CBI, Chennai seeking stay of the operation of the order passed by this court in Crl.O.P.Nos.4764 to 4767 of 2008 for twelve weeks. It has been contended in the memo that the quashment of the criminal proceedings of these matters will have wider ramifications and cascading effect on the progress of the trial of similar nature of pending cases. Firstly, it has been found that the petitioners have discharged the debt due to the de facto complainant as per the understanding reached between them. Secondly, the material witnesses so far examined have not directly implicated these petitioners for the various offences charged as against them. Therefore, on merits, the memo filed seeking for stay of operation of the order passed by this court for twelve weeks does not survive for consideration. Hence, the memo is rejected. 30.4.2008. Note to office: Issue copy by 2.5.2008. M.JEYAPAUL, J. Ssk. P.D. ORDER IN Crl.O.P. 
Nos.4764 to 4767 of 2008

											

 Delivered on 
30.4.2008.