1] They are heard. Perused the documents / challan papers.
 2] This is applicants' first application under Section 438 of Signature Not Verified Signed by: KHEMRAJ JOSHI Signing time: 06-04-2023 16:33:58 2 Criminal Procedure Code , 1973 for grant of anticipatory bail, as they
 are apprehending their arrest in connection with Crime No.07/2023
 registered at Police Station Raghvi, District Ujjain (MP) for offences
 punishable under Sections 376 , 376(d) & 506 of the Indian Penal
 Code, 1860. 3] Allegation against the applicants is of gang rape. The facts of
 the case are that according to the FIR, which was lodged on
 12/01/2023, at around 00.10 hours in respect of the incident which
 took place on 10/01/2023, at around 6:30 pm and the prosecutrix
 approached the police station at 9 O'clock the night of 11/01/2023. It
 is alleged that the applicant No.2 Sumer Singh who was an old
 acquaintance of the prosecutrix, called her at Suhagpur Fanta where
 he raped her in the vehicle and thereafter the applicant No.1 Umrav
 Singh also took turn on her. The prosecutrix did not lodge the FIR
 immediately, however, after gathering courage, she approached the
 police station on the next day i.e., on 11/01/2023, and lodged the
 report. 4] Counsel for the applicants has submitted that the applicant
 No.2 Sumer Singh happens to be a Panchayat Secretary of Gram
 Panchayat Ghatiya, District Ujjain, whereas applicant No.1 is his
 friend and an agriculturist and both of them have been falsely
 implicated in the case which is also apparent from the transcript
 dated 10/01/2023, which has also been filed by the applicant no.1
 Umrao Singh in which, the conversation took place between the
 prosecutrix with applicant Umrao Singh is recorded, in which the
 prosecutrix herself has called the applicant to their meeting place and Signature Not Verified Signed by: KHEMRAJ JOSHI Signing time: 06-04-2023 16:33:58 3 after the applicants reached on the spot, the prosecutrix and the other
 persons forced them to sign certain documents on 10/01/2023 on the
 threat of lodging a false report of commission of rape, and
 immediately on the next day, i.e. 11/01/2023, the applicant no.1 also
 lodged a detailed report to the S.P. Ujjain that they are being
 blackmailed by the prosecutrix and other persons to the tune of Rs.35
 Lakhs. Counsel has also drawn the attention of this Court to the
 transcript of the telephonic conversation which took place between
 Sumer Singh and Shyam Singh. Counsel has also submitted that he
 has also submitted a video clip where the applicants have been forced
 to sign the documents in a dark room wherein the presence of
 Shyamsingh is also apparent. It is also submitted that the applicants
 are also ready to get themselves examined and give their samples for
 FSL and DNA report, hence their custodial interrogation in the
 circumstances is not necessary. Thus, it is submitted that the
 application be allowed and the applicants be released on anticipatory
 bail. 5] Counsel appearing for the objector, on the other hand, has
 opposed the prayer and it is submitted that no case for anticipatory
 bail is made out as it is a case of gang rape. It is also submitted that
 after the interim bail was granted by this Court to the applicants,
 applicant No.1 Umrao Singh also called the prosecutrix and by
 representing himself as the S.P.,forced her to withdraw the complaint.
 Copy of the transcript is also filed on record. It is also submitted that
 the dispute of Shyamsingh with the applicant was regarding a plot
 only which has also come on record in the aforesaid conversation. 6] Counsel for the respondent / State has also opposed the prayer
 and it is submitted that no case for anticipatory bail is made out.
 7] Heard counsel for the parties and perused the case diary as also
 the documents filed on record. 8] On perusal of the documents filed on record and after going
 through the audio clips submitted by the applicants to the police
 which are also available with the case diary, this Court is of the
 considered opinion that there is certainly an incident has taken place
 in which the prosecutrix and the applicants were involved, however,
 it cannot be said with certainty as to what transpired that day and if
 the prosecutrix was a consenting party. The audio clips also reveal
 that there was certainly a conversation going on between the parties
 to settle the matter for an amount to the tune of Rs.35 Lakhs which
 the applicants wanted to reduce from 20 or 15 Lakhs. The contention
 of the counsel for the objector that the conversation was in relation to
 a plot only, but a video clip of the applicants and the other persons
 which is placed on record reveals that in the mobile lights something
 is being scribbled on a piece of paper and the manner in which one of
 the applicants is writing the document clearly indicates that he is
 being forced to write the same. Apart from that, the audio clips are
 also incriminating and clearly indicates involvement of other persons
 also who are trying to extort money from the applicants.
 9] It is also found that this Court had granted interim relief to the
 applicants on 08/02/2023, and subsequently on 01/03/2023, this
 Court had also directed the Investigating Officer to remain present in
 the Court and the counsel for the State was directed to obtain the Signature Not Verified Signed by: KHEMRAJ JOSHI Signing time: 06-04-2023 16:33:58 5 documents from the applicants and inquire what action has been
 taken in the matter by the police but no satifactory answer has been
 given by the said I.O. In the case diary, this Court also finds that the
 sealed envelops in which the pen-drive containing the audio clips has
 been kept, have not even been opened in the A.G. office. Learned
 counsel for the State has also not cared to go through them to make
 out any sense out of the conversation taking place between the
 parties, despite the fact that on many earlier occasions, this Court has
 directed the counsel appearing for the State to argue the matter after
 going through the audio or video clip, if available on record relating
 to the incident. 10] The prosecutrix has also placed on record a transcript of some
 audio clip but the same also reveals that the conversation is rather
 dubious. The audio clip, in which the applicant has tried to call the
 prosecutrix by impersonating as SP also reveals that something
 suspicious was going on and the conversation does not appear to be
 confined to some property. Although this Court deprecates the
 conduct of the applicant Umrao Singh in calling the prosecutrix
 imposing as S.P. police, but still is of the considered opinion that this
 matter needs deeper and thorough investigation by the police to nab
 the real culprits. 11] This Court is also of the opinion that if the applicants have
 committed the offence, they should not be sparred in any manner but
 the documents filed by the applicants on record including the audio
 and video clips, do reveal that they are being subjected to extortion
 and in such circumstances, this Court is of the opinion that the Signature Not Verified Signed by: KHEMRAJ JOSHI Signing time: 06-04-2023 16:33:58 6 custodial interrogation of the applicants is not necessary and they
 deserve to be released on anticipatory bail. 12] Accordingly, this application is allowed and it is directed that
 in the event of arrest, applicants shall be released on bail, upon their
 executing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.25,000/- (rupees twenty
 five thousand only) each and furnishing one solvent surety each in
 the like amount to the satisfaction of the Arresting Officer
 (Investigating Officer). The applicants shall make themselves
 available for interrogation by a Police Officer, as and when required.
 They shall further abide by the other conditions enumerated in Sub
 Section (2) of Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.
 13] It is also directed that after obtaining the FSL and DNA report
 of the applicants and the prosecutrix, if it is found that the said
 reports are positive, and connect the applicant/s with the offence,
 his/their bail order shall stand cancelled without further reference to
 this Court and he/they shall surrender before the Trial Court
 immediately. 14] It is also directed that the Inspector General of Police (I.G.),
 Ujjain to take over the investigation from the present Investigating
 Officer of the concerned police station and be handed over to some
 senior police officer. The I.G., Ujjain shall also personally supervise
 the progress of the investigation and bring the same to some logical
 conclusion. If it is found that the applicants were subjected to
 blackmail by the other persons, appropriate legal action shall be
 taken against such other persons also who are involved in this case,.
 The I.G., Ujjain is also directed to submit a short report regarding Signature Not Verified Signed by: KHEMRAJ JOSHI Signing time: 06-04-2023 16:33:58 7 conclusion of the investigation in the present case and apprise this
 Court of the outcome of the order which is being passed today in this
 case. 15] The office of the Advocate General is also directed to
 henceforth argue the matter after perusing the entire case diary
 including the audio/video clips which are available in the case diary,
 on which any of the parties rely upon. 16] Let a copy of this order be sent to the concerned I.G., Ujjain for
 necessary action and compliance. 17] Accordingly, Miscellaneous Criminal Case is allowed and
 disposed of. Certified copy as per rules. (SUBODH ABHYANKAR)
 JUDGE
 krjoshi Signature Not Verified Signed by: KHEMRAJ JOSHI Signing time: 06-04-2023 16:33:58