This petition is filed by the petitioner

under Section 438 of The Code of Criminal

Procedure , 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the

' Cr.P.C .', for brevity) seeking bail in Banahatti

ROR Crime No.33/2020-21 of Range Forest

Officer, Banahatti Range, Bagalkote Division,

registered for the offences punishable under Sections 80 , 84 , 86 and 87 of Karnataka Forest

Act, 1963, Rule 144 and 145 of Karnataka

Forest Rules, 1969 (hereinafter referred to as

the 'Act, for brevity) and Section 379 of IPC. 2. It is the case of the prosecution that

Forest Officials registered a case in ROR

No.33/2020-21 on 19.11.2020 for the offences 3 punishable under Sections 80 , 84 , 86 and 87 of

the Act, 1963, Rule 144 and 145 of Karnataka

Forest Rules, 1969 and Section 379 of IPC

against the unknown accused persons. During

the course of investigation, the Investigating

Officer has issued notice under Section 41-A of

Cr.P.C., calling upon the petitioner to appear

before him for investigation. The said notice is

dated 13.01.2021. The petitioner has not

appeared before the Investigating Officer in

response to the notice as he has apprehension

that if he appears before the I.O, there is

likelihood of he being arrested. The petitioner

apprehending his arrest has filed

Crl.Misc.No.5063/2021 seeking bail and the

same came to be rejected by I Addl. District

and Sessions Judge, Bagalkot to sit at

Jamkhandi, by order dated 29.04.2021. 4 Therefore, the petitioner is before this Court

seeking anticipatory bail. 3. Heard the learned counsel appearing

for the petitioner and the learned High Court

Government Pleader for the respondent-State. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner

would contend that the petitioner apprehending

his arrest, when he visit the Investigating

Officer in compliance of notice under Section

41-A of Cr.P.C. The counsel for petitioner by

referring to clauses of Section 41(A) contends

that the police officer, if he is of the opinion

that he ought to arrest, he has to record the

reasons. He further pointing out Section 41-A

(4), as the petitioner has failed to comply with

the terms of notice, the Investigating Officer

may arrest him for the offences mentioned in 5 the notice, if petitioner has not obtained any

orders by the competent Court. He would

contend that the decision in the case of Jerry

Paul Vs. State of Karnataka , reported in

2021(1) Kar. L.J., 550, is not applicable to

the case on hand. In that case, the

Investigating Officer had filed charge sheet and

he had not obtained permission under Section

173(8) of Cr.P.C., for further investigation and

therefore the person who received the notice

under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C., has no

apprehension of arrest. He would contend that

whenever a notice has been served under Section 41-A Cr.P.C., the noticee apprehends

his arrest and on that point he places reliance

on a decision of the Patna High Court in the

case of Gauri Shankar Roy and Others Vs.

The State of Bihar , reported in 2015 (3) 6 PLJR 618, it contains elaborate discussion

over the Section 41 , 41-A of Cr.P.C., and

paragraph No.22 thereof, it is evident that

issue has properly been answered. The

paragraph No.22 is quoted as below; Hence, he further contends that the

petitioner apprehending his arrest by the

Investigating Officer prays for grant of

anticipatory bail. 5. Per contra, learned High Court

Government Pleader contended that as the

arrest of the petitioner is not required under

the provisions of 41(1), the Investigating

Officer has issued notice under Section 41-A of

Cr.P.C., directing the petitioner to appear

before him for enquiry. Therefore, there is no

any apprehension of arrest. The Sessions Court

placing reliance of the decision in the case of Jerry Paul (supra) has rightly rejected the

petition of the petitioner seeking anticipatory

bail. Hence, the petition seeking anticipatory

bail is not maintainable. 6. Having regard to the submission

made by the learned counsel for the petitioner

and the learned High Court Government

Pleader and on the points urged the legal issue

that arises in the present case is; 9 Whether an application for
 anticipatory bail under Section 438 of
 Cr.P.C., is maintainable on behalf of a
 person who has never been arrested
 to but has been noticed by the police
 officer under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C? 7. Chapter V of Cr.P.C . deals with

'arrest' of persons. Section 41 Cr.P.C. provides

for the exigencies and circumstances under

which a police officer may arrest any one

without warrant. The provisions of Section 41 of the Code are being reproduced for better

appreciation of the issue involved. Section 41 reads as follows: (a) who commits, in the presence of a
police officer, a cognizable offence; (b) against whom a reasonable
complaint has been made, or credible
information has been received, or a
reasonable suspicion exists that he
has committed a cognizable offence
punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may be less than seven
years or which may extend to seven
years whether with or without fine, if
the following conditions are satisfied,
namely :- or (b) for proper investigation of the
 offence; or

 (c ) to prevent such person from
 causing the evidence of the
 offence to disappear or tampering
 with such evidence in any
 manner; or 11 (d) to prevent such person from
 making any inducement, threat or
 promise to any person acquainted
 with the facts of the case so as to
 dissuade him from disclosing such
 facts to the Court or to the police
 officer; or (e) as unless such person is
 arrested, his presence in the
 Court whenever required cannot
 be ensured, and the police officer
 shall record while making such
 arrest, his reasons in writing: or (i) for whose arrest any requisition,
whether written or oral, has been 13 received from another police officer,
 provided that the requisition specifies
 the person to be arrested and the
 offence or other cause for which the
 arrest is to be made and it appears
 therefrom that the person might
 lawfully be arrested without a
 warrant by the officer who issued the
 requisition

 (2) Subject to the provisions of Section 42 ,
 no person concerned in a non-cognizable
 offence or against whom a complaint has
 been made or credible information has been
 received or reasonable suspicion exists of
 his having so concerned, shall be arrested
 except under a warrant or order of a
 Magistrate. 8. From perusal of the scheme of Section 41 Cr.P.C. as it stands now after being

substituted by Code of Criminal Procedure

(Amendment) Act 2008 (5 of 2009), it

transpires that the power of arrest available to

a police officer in connection with commission 14 of a cognizable offence may be categorized

under three heads - (a) under the first head,

the Police officer has been conferred a power

to arrest any person who has committed a

cognizable offence in his presence. This power

is without any qualification, exception and

prerequisites. The only sine qua non is

commission of a cognizable offence in presence

of a police officer; (b) the second category of

the case have been mentioned under Section

41(1)(b) . In this class, those cases are

included which are punishable with

imprisonment for a term which may be less

than seven years or which may extend to seven

years whether with or without fine and the

police officer has received a reasonable

complaint, or a credible information regarding

any one having committed such offence or a 15 reasonable suspicion exists that any one has

committed such a cognizable offence. The

power to arrest for the offence under this

category is, however, not absolute and

unqualified. In order to exercise the power of

arrest in these category of cases, the police

officer must have a reason to believe on the

basis of complaint, information or suspicion

that any person has committed the said offence

and the police officer should be satisfied that

such arrest is necessary in terms of any or all

of the grounds as mentioned under Section

41(1)(b)(ii) (a,b,c,d,e) of the Code. 9. To put it straight, the legal position

which emerges is that in the events of

commission of cognizable offences punishable

up to 7 years of the imprisonment, for

arresting any person, there has to be a 16 reasonable belief of the police officer coupled

with the existence of any one or more of the

circumstances rendering the police officer to

satisfy himself that such arrest is necessary.

The proviso appended to the relevant provision

issues a command to the police officer to

record his satisfaction in case he decides not to

arrest any person in connection with the

allegation of commission of the offence. 10. What emerges from the new scheme

of the Code and the amendments to Section 41 is that under both the circumstances i.e. when

he decides to arrest or when he decides not to

arrest, there has to be a satisfaction of the

police officer which satisfaction, of course, is

judicially reviewable. In event of arrest, the

police officer has to record about what reasons

to believe he had for coming to a conclusion 17 that the person has committed the offence and

further more he is also required to record as to

under what exigencies, the arrest was

necessary. The exigencies have been provided

under Section 41(1)(b)(ii) (a-e) of the Cr.P.C. 11. Thus, in the event police officer

decides not to arrest any person

notwithstanding the fact that there are credible

information or suspicion of him having

committed such offence, then also the police

officer is required to record reasons in writing

for not making the arrest. The further course

of action in cases where the police officer

decides not to arrest any person has been

provided under Section 41A Cr.P.C. which

reads as follows: 12. Here it would be relevant to

elaborate the objects and reasons and the

legislative intent behind the

introduction/insertion of Section 41A of the

Cr.P.C. (inserted by Act 5 of 2009). After going

through the statement of objects and reasons

vis-à-vis the insertion of Section 41A of the

Cr.P.C., it becomes clear that the legislature

intended to make it compulsory for the police

to record reasons for making an arrest, as well 20 as for not making an arrest in respect of a

cognizable offence for which the maximum

punishment is upto seven years, hence Section

41 was amended and proviso to Section 41 was

inserted by Act 41 of 2010, whereas Section

41A of Cr.P.C. was inserted to make it

compulsory for the police to issue a notice in

all such cases where arrest is not required to

be made under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of

the amended Section 41 . It was also suggested

that the unwillingness of a person who has not

been arrested to identify himself and to whom

a notice has been issued under Section 41A

would be a ground for his arrest. 13. Hence, under the new provision of Section 41A of Cr.P.C., it is mandated that the

police will not arrest the accused for crimes

that are punishable with less than 7 years. 21 Instead, the police can issue a notice informing

the accused person/persons that he/they

should appear at the police station for

investigation. 14. The insertion of Section 41A Cr.P.C.,

pertaining to issuance of 'Notice of

Appearance', is in line with the Right of Life

and Liberty of the citizens and seeks to help to

bring down the number of arrests, which in

turn would decongest the crowded Indian Jails.

Simultaneously, the innocents too can feel

secure in case they stand a chance of exposure

to implication in fake cases. 15. The amendment provides that the

police officer shall, instead of arresting the

person concerned, issue a notice of

appearance, asking him to cooperate with the 22 police officer in the probe. No arrest will be

made in a non-cognizable offence except under

a warrant or order of Magistrate. The

amendment provides that the reasons for

arrest should be sound and recorded in writing

by the police officer. Where such a notice is

issued to any person, it shall be the duty of

that person to comply with it and arrest can be

made only if the person fails to do so. Yet,

here it is important to remember that mere

failure to comply with the terms of the notice

is not sufficient ground to arrest a person and

the police officer must record reasons, if the

need for arrest arises. 16. The import of the said provision of Section 41A Cr.P.C. is that normally where an

accused has been named in the F.I.R., credible

information has been received or reasonable 23 suspicion exists and the offence is punishable

with upto 7 years imprisonment, the arrest of

the accused may not be necessary at the initial

stage and his attendance may be secured by

issuing a notice to him to appear before the

police officer. In such cases, it would be

advisable to arrest the accused only after

sufficient evidence of his involvement in the

crime has been collected and the charge sheet

needs to be submitted. Under Section 170(1) Cr.P.C., it has been provided that on

completion of investigation, if sufficient

evidence has been collected, the accused shall

be forwarded in custody to the Magistrate

concerned, unless he has been released on bail

(if the offence was bailable), in which event

security may be taken for his appearance

before the Magistrate. 17. With regard to the ambit of provision

under Section 41A of the Cr.P.C., the Apex

Court, in the case of Arnesh Kumar Vs. The

State of Bihar , reported in AIR 2014 SC

2756 has held in paragraph No. 12 in the

following words:- 18. The conclusion which emerges

from the conjoint reading of Section 41 and

41A of the Code is as follows: In connection

with allegation of commission of offence

punishable up to 7 years with or without fine,

the police officer can arrest - (i) only if he has

reasons to believe regarding commission of the

offence by the person concerned, coupled with (ii) the existence of one or more of the

circumstances provided in the Section

rendering arrest necessary. 19. In case the police officer decides not

to arrest, he has to record the reasons to that

effect and thereafter is mandatorily required to

issue notice to the person concerned under

section 41A(1). The noticee is required to

comply with the terms of the notice and till the

time the noticee observes and adheres to the 26 undertaking under the notice, he shall not be

arrested unless for the reasons to be recorded,

the police officer is of the opinion that he

ought to be arrested. The use of word 'shall' in

Section 41A(1) of the Code reflects that the

provision is mandatory in nature. 20. Where there is any failure on the part

of the noticee to comply with the terms of the

notice, it is always incumbent upon the police

officer to arrest the noticee subject to such

orders as may have been passed by a

competent court in this behalf. The use of the

term 'subject to such orders' is of significance

as the legislature is not expected to waste the

words or use them casually without any

intention of a specific interpretation being

given to them. The term subject to such orders

as may have been passed refers to orders 27 relating to grant of anticipatory bail which the

noticee may have obtained interregnum the

issuance of notice and before actual arrest. 21. 1. Section 41A of the Cr.P.C. which

was inserted by Act 5 of 2009 was made

effective from 01.11.2010 and was introduced

by the Legislature for purposes of giving notice

of appearance to a person who's arrest is not

required under provisions of Section 41(1) of

Cr.P.C., directing the person against whom a

reasonable complaint has been made or

creditable information has been received or

reasonable suspicion exists that he has

committed a cognizable offence, to appear

before him or at such other place as may be

specified in the Notice. 21.2. Under Section 41A (2) of the

Code the person concerned to whom the Notice

has been issued is duty bound to comply with

the terms of notice. 21.3. Section 41A (3) stipulates about the

person who complies with the Notice, shall not

be arrested unless for reasons recorded by the

police that he ought to be arrested and one of

such contingencies when such person can be

arrested as stipulated under Section 41A (4)

which prescribes the arrest of such person if he

fails to comply the terms of Notice or is

unwilling to identify himself, then the police

officer subject to such orders as may have

been passed by a competent court, may arrest

him for the offences mentioned in the Notice. 29 22. Hence, a person gets apprehension of

being arrested in two situations:- firstly when

a 'Notice' is issued to him under Section 41A

(1) of the Code and secondly, after complying

the terms of 'Notice' the police officer forms an

opinion that such person ought to be arrested

or in a situation, such person fails to comply

the terms of 'Notice' or is unwilling to 'identify'

himself. 23. In all the above three situations such

person can maintain an anticipatory bail

application as Section 41A of the Code does

not stipulate the specific condition of notice of

appearance. 24. Section 41A of the Code operates in a

situation where there is no arrest and

prescribes the course of option to be adopted 30 by a police officer in case he decides not to

arrest any person. Till the time any person is

not arrested, he is entitled to maintain an

application for grant of anticipatory bail

subject to, of course, the applicability of any

other law to the contrary. 25. Section 41A of the Cr.P.C. defers the

arrest until and unless sufficient evidence is

collected, so as to produce or forward the

accused to the custody of the court. The

apprehension of arrest, thus, does not

completely vanish away on the issuance of

notice of appearance under Section 41A of the

Cr.P.C., and hence, the question being raised

in maintainability of an application under Section 438 Cr.P.C., during the pendency of

notice being issued under Section 41A Cr.P.C.

or during the compliance of the terms of such 31 notice, is completely unwarranted and is not in

tune with the provisions of law. The

apprehension of arrest always does exist even

after issuance of notice of appearance under

Section 41A Cr.P.C. and under such

circumstance the Courts cannot evade to

entertain an application under Section 438

Cr.P.C. 26. In Jerry Paul 's case (supra), the co-

ordinate bench of this Court has held that once

notice has been issued under Section 41-A of

Cr.P.C., that itself makes it clear that arrest of

the petitioner is not required. In the said case,

the notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C. has

been issued after filing the charge sheet. The

Investigating Officer even had not obtained

permission for further investigation under Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. In that 32 circumstances, it is held that there is no threat

of arrest of the noticee, who has received

notice under Section 41-A of the Act. In the

case on hand, the investigation is still in

progress and petitioner has been issued with

notice under Section 41-A of Cr.P.C., for

enquiry with regard to Banahatti ROR Crime

No.33/2020-21, for offences under Section 80 , 84 , 86 and 87 of Karnataka Forest Act, 1963

and Section 379 of IPC, whereunder, the

motorcycle and two sandalwood billets have

been seized. The offences under Section 86 and 87 of the Karnataka Forest Act, 1963, are

punishable with imprisonment for 10 years.

Therefore, there is an apprehension of arrest of

the petitioner since the Investigating Officer

may collect evidence and record reasons

against the petitioner and may arrest him. 33 More so the petitioner has not complied notice

issued under Section 41A. Therefore, the

petitioner is entitled for grant of anticipatory

bail with conditions. 27. In the result, the petition filed under Section 438 of Cr.P.C., is allowed. In the

event of arrest of petitioner in Banahatti ROR

Crime No.33/2020-21 by the Range Forest

Officer, Banahatti, Bagalkote Division,

registered for the offences punishable under Sections 80 , 84 , 86 & 87 of Karnataka Forest

Act, 1963, Rule 144 and 145 of Karnataka

Forest Rules, 1969 and Section 379 of IPC, the

petitioner shall be released on bail subject to

certain terms and conditions. i. The petitioner shall execute a personal
 bond for a sum of Rs.1,00,000/- ii. The petitioner shall voluntarily appear
 before the Investigating Officer within
 fifteen days from today. iii. The petitioner shall co-operate with
 the investigation and make himself
 available for interrogation whenever
 required. iv. The petitioner shall not directly or
 indirectly make any inducement, threat
 or promise to any witness acquainted
 with the facts of the case so as to
 dissuade him from disclosing such
 facts to the Court or to any Police
 Officer. v. The petitioner shall not obstruct or
 hamper the Police investigation and
 not to play mischief with the evidence
 collected or yet be collected by the
 Police. vi. The petitioner shall mark his presence
 before the Police station concerned on
 second Sunday of every month
 between 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. for a period
 of six months from the date of this
 order. Sd/- JUDGE

RM