The short question involved in this application is as to whether the Central Bureau of Investigation (hereinafter referred to as CBI) can investigate the matter in respect of the acts of omission and commission committed by the applicant as a public servant in the State of UP, in respect of which S.I.T. is already investigating the matter. In order to appreciate the controversy involved in this case certain facts are required to be noted, which are as under:- Question that calls for consideration is as to whether the facts of the FIR No. 1 of 2007 are similar to the one filed by CBI and whether they constitute same offence or not? Facts constituting the offence in the FIR No. 1 of 2007 relates to the conduct of the applicant as public servant who has illegally by acts of omission and commission allotted plots in the Housing Schemes in violation of the norms and thereby causing loss to the exchequer. In the said FIRs the role of the applicant as public servant is under scrutiny. Area of investigation primarily is to locate and identify the role of the applicant as public servant. The money, which has been collected as a result of acts of omission and commission, has been deposited in various branches of Banks. Complicity of the applicant in this FIR is restricted to his role as public servant. The area of investigation is to find out; (a) whether the land has been allotted at a price which is below the circle rate fixed in this behalf; (b) whether any benefit has accrued to the applicant on this account or not; (c) how this money has been utilised and where it has been invested is ancillary to the main offence committed by the officials of the department. It at the best can be a proof to find out how the ill gotten money has been utilized. In the FIR, in which charge sheet has been filed by the CBI is to find out acts of omission and commission committed by the Bank Officials in permitting these amounts to be deposited in fictitious accounts which is strictly in violation of the Banking regulations. CBI as is revealed from the FIR and as reflected from the charge sheet by itself is not investigating the area where the role of the applicant as public servant is under scrutiny. The investigation which is under way in other sixty six fictitious account is intended only to detect the acts of omission and commission committed by the Bank officials in connivance with the applicant. Undoubtedly, in case CBI intended to investigate the role of the applicant as public servant it would in my opinion trench upon the process undertaken by the SIT Lucknow, who is already investigating the matter. From perusal of the report submitted under Section 173 Cr.P.C., limited area of investigation is to find out the manner in which the Bank Officials in active connivance with the applicant opened fictitious accounts. There is no mention in the report that it intends to probe the role of the applicant as public servant. In case it intends to probe the role of the applicant as public servant it would trench upon the investigation under taken by the SIT. As already stated herein above, the money collected as a result of acts of omission and commission of the applicant in the first FIR No. 1 by misusing his official position as public servant relates to his role as public servant, any attempt by the CBI to examine this aspect of the matter cannot be permitted under law as it would constitute parallel investigation with respect to same offence. They need special permission from the State Government to investigate the case in this behalf. No doubt the amount deposited in the said Bank account is stated to be as a result of pecuniary gain obtained by the applicant as a result of his acts of omission and commission as public servant. In my opinion, argument of the learned counsel for the applicant that CBI in essence is trenching upon the investigation conducted by the SIT in FIR No. 1 of 2007 on the ground that they intend to examine the role of the applicant as public servant in all respect and the manner in which the said amount has been obtained by the applicant is not correct. The main thrust of the investigation is only to examine the role of the Bank Officials in allowing the fictitious accounts opened in the Bank and withdrawal in connivance with the officials. The applicant's role in the FIR filed by the CBI is not to determine in the context of his being public servant of State of U.P. but as a person who has manipulated the opening of fictitious accounts in the Bank. Other contention raised regarding jurisdiction of this Court to entertain this petition, the argument of the learned counsel for the CBI is to be noted. On the question of jurisdiction for seeking quashment of the FIR and charge sheet filed before the State of Uttarakhand, there is no dispute that this Court does not have jurisdiction to try the same. However, the applicant was able to demonstrate that the CBI was investigating and trenching upon the jurisdiction of SIT the matter could have been examined in depth. Since, I have already held that two offences are different as such there is no overlapping in this behalf. Learned counsel for the applicant has relied upon the judgement of Hon'ble Apex Court reported in T.T. Anthony Vs State of Kerala and others , AIR 2001 SC 2637. In this case, Hon'ble Apex Court while dealing with the issue has held that narration of offence as levelled in the FIRs are similar, subsequent FIR lodged was uncalled far. It further went to hold that its recording was irregular and fresh investigation by the Investigating Agency was unwarranted and illegal. On the other hand learned counsel for the CBI has relied upon the case of Nirmal Singh Kahlon Vs State of Punjab and others reported in 2008 STPL (LE) 40917 SC. The Court while dealing with the issue held that the earlier FIR did not make any allegations as regard existence of conspiracy, the Second FIR did. The canvass of two FIRs is absolutely different. The number of accused in both the FIRs is also different. The second FIR would be maintainable not only because there were different versions but when new discovery is made on factual foundations, the discoveries may be made by the police authorities at a subsequent stage. In view of above, I find no force in this application. The application is, accordingly, dismissed. Order Date :- 18.12.2012
 
RKS/