VIKAS MAHAJAN, J. (ORAL)

 I.A. 42820/2024 (by plaintiffs under Section 151 CPC seeking exemption
 from filing the originals/certified copies/typed copies/legible copies of
 documents along with affidavits) 1. This is an application seeking exemption from filing original
 documents. Original documents shall be produced/filed, if sought, strictly as
 per the DHC (Original Side) Rules, 2018. 2. Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 3. The Application stands disposed of. CS(OS) 841/2024 4. The plaint be registered as a suit. 5. On filing of process fee, summons be issued to the defendants by all
 permissible modes. 6. The summons shall indicate that written statement must be filed
 within thirty days from the date of receipt of summons. The defendants shall
 also file an affidavit of admission/denial of the documents filed by the
 plaintiffs, failing which the written statement shall not be taken on record. 7. The plaintiffs are at liberty to file replication thereto within thirty days
 after filing of the written statement. The replication shall be accompanied by
 affidavit of admission/denial in respect of the documents filed by the
 defendants, failing which the replication shall not be taken on record. 8. It is made clear that any unjustified denial of documents may lead to
 an order of costs against the concerned party. 9. Any party seeking inspection of documents may do so in accordance
 with the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018. 10. List before the learned Joint Registrar for completion of service,
 pleadings, admission/denial of documents and marking of exhibits on
 14.01.2025. 11. List before Court after completion of pleadings on 28.02.2025.
 I.A. 42819/2024 (by the plaintiffs under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2
 r/w Section 151 CPC) 12. The present suit has been filed by the plaintiffs seeking permanent
 and mandatory injunction as well damages against the defendant nos. 1-3
 (hereinafter referred to as 'the defendants') on account of making
 defamatory statements against the plaintiffs in a video dated 12.09.2024
 (hereinafter referred to as 'impugned video') uploaded on the defendant
 no.4's i.e., 'YouTube', social media platform. 13. The facts which can be noted from the plaint are that the plaintiff no.1
 is a designated partner of Viresh Buildcon LLP and Nextra Infrabuilder LLP Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH CS(OS) 841/2024 Page 2 of 10 ASWAL Signing Date:08.11.2024 10:48:38 and is also one of the Directors in the Board of Gems Galleria Pvt Ltd,
 Innovative Biochem Pvt Ltd, Nextra Teleservices Pvt Ltd., and Sonip
 Solution Pvt Ltd. It is also averred that the plaintiff no.1 is presently
 working as a CEO of the plaintiff no.2 i.e., Nextra Developers LLP which is
 is a registered limited liability partnership firm, inter alia involved in the
 business of real estate. Whereas the plaintiff nos.3-4 are the designated
 partners of the plaintiff no.2 and the plaintiff no.5 i.e., M/s Antarctica
 Properties Company Limited is a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 and has launched a project viz., "The Address" at Plot
 No. 4B, Mayur Vihar, Phase-I, Extension, New Delhi-110091 under the
 brand name of "Nextra Developers LLP". 14. The defendant no.1 is a property dealer and is known to the plaintiff
 no.1. The defendant nos. 2 and 3 are wife and son, respectively, of the
 defendant no.1. Whereas the defendant no.4 is 'YouTube' and the defendant
 no.5 is 'Google'. 15. In a nutshell, it is the case of the plaintiffs and so contended by Mr.
 Ravi Gupta, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiffs
 that the defendants by uploading a defamatory video dated 12.09.2024 titled
 as 'I lost Crores in this Real Estate SCAM!! | Nextra Developers The
 Address SCAM' have injured the reputation of the plaintiffs before the
 public at large. 16. At the outset, it is the submission of Mr. Gupta that the contents of the
 impugned video, on the face of it, are frivolous, concocted and vexatious
 and are made with an objective to pressurize the plaintiffs to give in to the
 illegal demands made by the defendant nos.1-2 in a complaint case filed by
 them under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, against the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH CS(OS) 841/2024 Page 3 of 10 ASWAL Signing Date:08.11.2024 10:48:38 plaintiffs. 17. He submits that the impugned video has been uploaded by the
 defendant no.3 on his 'YouTube' channel viz. "Aristocar", which has wide
 viewership. 18. By drawing attention of the Court to para 13 of the plaint, where the
 defamatory contents have been culled out, Mr. Gupta submits that a bare
 perusal of the contents of the impugned video would reveal that the
 imputations made against the plaintiffs are self-declaratory and based upon
 false and frivolous facts. 19. He further submits that the plaintiffs have even made requests to the
 defendant nos.4 and 5 to delete the impugned video, however, the latter have
 shown their inability to delete the same and thus, the former are constrained
 to file the present suit. 20. By inviting attention of the Court to para 16 of the plaint, Mr. Gupta
 submits as in the description of the impugned video, the contact details of
 the plaintiffs have been deliberately shared, as a result of which the plaintiffs
 have been receiving regular threats since the date of the uploading of the
 impugned video. 21. He has further drawn attention of the Court to para 17 of the plaint to
 show how the imputations made in the video are not correct. 22. He submits that, as of now, there are 3,13,000 viewers who have
 already seen the impugned video and almost 1350 people have commented
 upon it. He submits that the impugned video has been continuously shared
 and viewed and thus, continuous access of the defamatory video to the
 public at large is tarnishing the image of the plaintiffs. Hence, the said video
 should be directed to be deleted from the defendant no.4's platform. 23. I have heard the learned senior counsel for the plaintiffs as well as
 gone through the materials placed on record. 24. The transcript of the impugned video uploaded by the defendant no.3
 on his 'YouTube' channel 'Aristocar' shows that it begins with the
 statement that "so many people have lost their life saving, in this real estate
 scam so I found it necessary to make a video so that none of you loose
 anything, as me and my family have been scammed of course with this real
 estate company called "Nextra Developers and The Director, Ashok
 Bansal" (emphasis supplied). 25. Thereafter, in the beginning itself, it was advised to the viewers to
 share the impugned video by stating that "what scam happened with my
 family and with other people and how can you save yourself and it is
 advised to everybody to share this video" (emphasis supplied). 26. Subsequently, the defendant no.3 makes certain other imputations
 against the plaintiff no.1 as well as his companies such as "We enquired
 about the "Cyber Park" project and found that neither they were having
 any licence nor it was approved by the Government. So technically, they
 were selling air". ................. "They have settled their paper in such a
 manner that it is difficult to win for a normal person with a normal lawyer.
 If we jointly file a case then we can win it"...................... "There are 35
 active companies and 149 inactive companies on the name of Ashok Bansal.
 What juggle they have done in aforesaid companies. You know online fraud
 for example think if fraud is to be made on the name of HDFC Bank, then
 assume that that URL of HDFC Bank is 'hdfc.com' then they prepare such a
 URL 'hdfcbank.co.in' so that normal person will think that website is of
 HDFC Bank and he will make payment - thereon. Similarly, what they have Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH CS(OS) 841/2024 Page 5 of 10 ASWAL Signing Date:08.11.2024 10:48:38 done they have created multiple companies similar to one company so that
 no difference can be made out by normal person. Out of all such multiple
 company, they have a brand name 'Odeon'. Now, under the brand name
 of "odeon" they opened "Odeon Buildwell Pvt Lid", "Odeon Developers
 Pvt Ltd" , "Odeon Infratech Pvt Ltd" , "Odeon Builders and Developers
 Pvt Ltd". Normal person cannot mark difference between "Odeon
 Developers" and "Odeon Developers and Builders". He remained under
 impression that both the companies are same and he will attain faith on both
 the companies. That both companies are same and he will attain faith on
 both the companies...... "And their scam does not end here, they have set
 up a broad band company and named it Nextra Broadband"....... "When
 any person publish a negative article, they manage to remove it after
 paying money and when the image of any company got spoiled or become
 negative then they change name of the company. Initially their company
 name was Odeon. There they did big Scam"........."Below, I am giving
 the phone number of their company in pinned comment. You are
 requested to give call on my behalf and ask when will get the money and
 when they will stop the scam". (emphasis supplied). 27. A perusal of the title of the alleged video i.e., 'I lost Crores in this
 Real Estate SCAM!! | Nextra Developers The Address SCAM' as well as
 aforesaid imputations made against the plaintiffs would reveal that an
 endeavour has been made by the defendant no.3 to project before the public
 at large as if some 'scam' has been committed by the plaintiffs against the
 defendants. It has also been portrayed that the plaintiffs have defrauded the
 defendants by making them invest in their real estate commercial project of
 "Cyber Park" at Gurgaon. 28. In the impugned video, it is stated that as the plaintiffs were unable to
 provide assured returns to the defendants, they issued few cheques to the
 defendants, however, the said cheques got dishonoured. It is further stated
 that for cheating as well as breach of promise, the defendants have also filed
 an FIR as well as a complaint case against the plaintiffs. 29. It has been averred in the plaint that complaint cases under Section
 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act have been filed by the defendants
 against the plaintiffs and are pending adjudication in Tis Hazari Court,
 Delhi. The copies of the said cases are also placed on record. I have also
 seen a copy an FIR no. 1265/2023 filed by the defendant no.1 against the
 plaintiffs alleging commission of offence such as criminal breach of trust,
 criminal conspiracy and criminal intimidation. Even in a complaint case i.e.,
 CC No. 142/2021 filed by the defendant no.1 against the plaintiff no.3, CW-
 1 i.e., the defendant no.1 herein, is presently under cross-examination. 30. Clearly, multiple litigations are pending between the plaintiffs and the
 defendants and it cannot be gathered from the contents of the impugned
 video that the imputations made to the effect that the plaintiffs have
 defrauded the defendants or are doing scam, have been established and
 proved in a court of law for them to be disseminated as truth before the
 public at large. 31. Other documents such as screenshots of the comments made by
 subscribers/viewers of the defendant no.3 on the impugned video and
 screenshots of the WhatsApp messages as well as calls received from
 unknown numbers by the plaintiffs, have also been perused. It is evident that
 because of the massive following of the defendant no.3, around 1400 people
 as of now have commented against the plaintiff merely on the basis of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH CS(OS) 841/2024 Page 7 of 10 ASWAL Signing Date:08.11.2024 10:48:38 imputations made by the defendant no.3 in the impugned video. 32. The defendant no.3 has even pinned 05 personal contact numbers of
 the plaintiffs because of which the first thing a viewer comes across after
 opening of the comment box is the personal contact details of the plaintiffs.
 This act of the defendant no.3 has surely breached the privacy of the
 plaintiffs. From the documents filed by the plaintiffs, it prima facie appears
 that soon after uploading of the impugned video, the plaintiffs had been
 receiving derogatory WhatsApp messages as well as numerous phone calls
 from unknown phone numbers. Further, having regard to the nature of
 imputations made against the plaintiff no.2 company, the submission of Mr.
 Gupta that the reputation and business of the plaintiffs have been injured,
 does not appear to be without substance. 33. It is trite law that reputation of one cannot be allowed to be crucified
 at the altar of the other's right of free speech.1 It is equally well settled that
 corporate entities like the plaintiff nos.2 and 5 also have a business
 reputation and can sue for defamation in respect of a publication calculated
 to injure their reputation in the way of its business.2 34. In Subramanian Swamy3 the Apex Court whilst relying upon Charu
 Khurana and others vs. Union of India and others4 has observed that right
 to honour, dignity and reputation are the basic constituents of right under Article 21. 35. At this juncture, advantageous it would be to rely upon a decision of a 1 Subramanian Swamy vs. UOI & Ors. , (2016) 7 SCC 221. Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. vs. Dr. Jagmohan Mundhara and another., AIR
 1985 Bom 229; Expersion Developers Private Limited vs. UP Television Network Private Limited , 2020: co-ordinate bench of this Court in Rajat Sharma vs. X Corp, (formerly
 Twitter) and Others5, wherein, in para 40, it held as under:- (emphasis supplied) 36. Considering that the imputations made against the plaintiffs in the
 impugned video are still under investigation and have not been proved and
 regard being had to the fact that the defendant no.3 has massive subscriber
 base of 2.8 lakhs subscribers, and that the impugned video has gathered 3.6
 lakhs views as well as multiple comments from numerous viewers, I am of
 the view that the plaintiffs have made a prima facie case for grant of ad
 interim relief in their favour. I am satisfied that grave and irreparable
 damages will be caused to the plaintiffs, if ad interim injunctive orders are
 not passed in their favour. The balance of convenience also lies in favour of
 the plaintiffs. 37. Under these circumstances, the defendant nos.1 to 3 are directed to
 take down / remove / restrict access / block the below mentioned URL of the
 impugned video uploaded on the defendant no.4's social media video
 sharing platform i.e., 'YouTube', which contains defamatory imputations
 against the plaintiffs within a period of two weeks: - 2024 SCC OnLine Del 4399. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SYpCUFOF5W8 38. In the event the defendant nos.1 to 3 fail to take down / remove /
 restrict access / block the aforementioned URL within the period of two
 weeks, the plaintiffs shall be at liberty to approach and request the defendant
 no.5 i.e., 'Google', and the latter, in that eventuality, shall take down the
 said URL within a period of 36 hours of such request. 39. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 CPC be made within two weeks.
 An affidavit of compliance may be filed within three days thereafter. 40. Needless to say, that the observations made herein are prima facie for
 the consideration of ad-interim relief under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC . 41. The defendants may file replies within a period of four weeks. Rejoinder,
 thereto, if any, be filed within a period of two weeks thereafter. 42. List before the learned Joint Registrar for completion of service and
 pleadings on 14.01.2025. 43. List before the Court on 28.02.2025. I.A. 43670/2024 (by plaintiffs under Order VII Rule 14 seeking to place
 on record certain additional documents) 44. Considering the nascent stage of the suit, as well as, the reasons stated
 in the application, the same is allowed. 45. The additional documents as referred to in para 2 of the application
 are taken on record. 46. The application stands disposed of. VIKAS MAHAJAN, J
 OCTOBER 28, 2024/dss Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH CS(OS) 841/2024 Page 10 of 10 ASWAL Signing Date:08.11.2024 10:48:38