1. The two accused Prashant Sablani and Milind had been
chargesheeted by the prosecution for the offences u/s.
328/354/365/356/376(2)(g)/377/34 IPC . 2. The FIR in this case had been registered on 15.6.2012
at 6.45 a.m. on the following statement of the prosecutrix namely
'D' (real name withheld in order to conceal her identity) : 3. It is the case of the prosecution that the aforesaid
statement of the prosecutrix was recorded by ASI Gopi Ram in
AIIMS Hospital in the morning of 15.6.2012 at about 6.15 a.m. He
prepared rukka on the basis of the same and sent it to the police SC No.63/13. Page 2 of 82 station for registration of the FIR. It may be noted here that ASI
Gopi Ram had reached AIIMS Trauma Centre in late hours of
14.6.2012 on receipt of DD No.43A and obtained the MLC of the
prosecutrix. At that time he was told by the doctor that the
prosecutrix is unfit for statement. He again reached AIIMS Trauma
Centre in the morning of 15.6.2012 to record statement of the
prosecutrix and was told that the prosecutrix has been shifted to
main AIIMS Hospital. He also reached the AIIMS Hospital and found
the prosecutrix admitted there for treatment. The doctor declared
her fit for statement and accordingly, he recorded her aforesaid
statement. After registration of the FIR, the investigation was
commenced by ASI Gopi Ram himself. He recorded the statements
of witnesses. He arrested accused Prashant Sablani and accused
Milind on the identification of the prosecutrix. The medical
examination of both the accused was got conducted in AIIMS
Hospital. He seized the Honda Civic car bearing no.DL-4CAH-5210
and another car no.DL-3CBJ-4499 which was used in the
commission of crime. The gynecological examination of the
prosecutrix was conducted in AIIMS on 17.6.2012 and the exhibits
preserved by the doctor were seized by the IO. The prosecutrix
was admitted to Psychiatric Department of AIIMS on 17.6.2012 and
as per observations made by the doctor on the MLC on that day, Section 377 IPC was added to the FIR. Further investigation was
handed over to SI Seema Singh. 4. It is further the case of the prosecution that the
prosecutrix was again declared fit for statement on 28.6.2012 and
her statement was recorded afresh by SI Seema Singh. Since the
prosecutrix had stated in that statement that she was raped by SC No.63/13. Page 3 of 82 accused Prashant with the aid of accused Milind, section 376 IPC
was added to the FIR. The IO obtained the treatment papers of the
prosecutrix from AIIMS on 30.6.2012. She prepared the rough site
plan of the spot of incident at the instance of the prosecutrix. She
obtained the location chart of mobile phone of both the accused.
The statement of the prosecutrix u/s.164 Cr.PC was got recorded
on 07.7.2012. The sexual potency test of both the accused was
got conducted in Safdarjung Hospital on 11.7.2012. All the exhibits
were sent by IO to the FSL on 12.7.2012. The TIP of accused Milind
was got conducted in jail on 12.7.2012 and he was correctly
identified by prosecutrix. IO recorded the disclosure statement of
both the accused. 5. After completion of investigation, Charge Sheet was
prepared by the IO and was laid before the concerned Ilaqa
Magistrate. 6. Upon committal of the case to the court of Sessions,
Charges u/s.365 / 34 IPC, u/s.328/34 IPC , u/s.354/34 IPC , u/s.376(2) (g) IPC and u/s.377 / 34 IPC were framed against both the accused
on 24.11.2012. Both the accused denied the charges and
accordingly trial was held. 7. At trial, the prosecution has examined 18 witnesses to
prove the charges against the accused. Ld. APP also tendered in
evidence FSL results Ex.PA, Ex.PB and Ex.PC respectively. The
accused were examined u/s.313 Cr.PC on 05.12.2014 wherein they
denied the prosecution case and claimed false implication. The
accused examined Sh. Alok Singh, Advocate, as DW1, Nodal SC No.63/13. Page 4 of 82 Officer from M/s. Bharti Airtel Limited as DW2, Sh. Karan Bhatia, a
friend of accused Milind as DW3, Sh. Dhruv Tyagi, another friend of
accused Milind as DW4 and Sh. Arul Mani, General Manager
(Learning & Development), Hotel Taj Mahal, New Delhi, as DW5 in
their defence. 8. I have heard Ld. APP for State, Ld. Counsels for the
accused and have perused the entire material on record. 9. According to the Ld. APP, both the accused are liable
to be convicted whereas the Ld. Defence Counsels maintained that
the accused are innocent and are liable to be acquitted. The Ld.
APP as well as Ld. Defence Counsels took me through the
voluminous evidence to substantiate their respective submissions. 10. The Ld. APP submitted that the evidence on record
establishes without doubt that the two accused had drugged the
prosecutrix by administering to her some intoxicating substance
mixed in Coke and then took her to an under-construction building
where she was raped by accused Prashant Sablani with the active
aid and support of accused Milind. She further submitted that the
physical torture and mental trauma suffered by the prosecutrix
during the said incident was to such extent that she had to remain
admitted in psychiatric ward of AIIMS Hospital for treatment and
she had developed suicidal tendencies. She submitted that she
was not in complete senses and fully conscious state of mind in
the evening of the date of incident when she was found by her
brother and her mother and when she was brought to AIIMS
Trauma Center and for this reason, she could not mention in detail SC No.63/13. Page 5 of 82 in her initial statement as to what had happened to her. She
argued that there is nothing in the cross examination of the
prosecutrix to disbelieve her and her version gets ample support
and collaboration from the testimony of her parents (PW5 &
PW10), brother (PW14), her friend Aastha (PW13) and the medical
evidence. According to her, both the accused are liable to be
convicted. 11. Ld. Counsel for the accused Prashant submitted that
the parents of the prosecutrix have got registered a false FIR in
collusion with the police officials. He submitted that the
prosecutrix in her initial statement dated 15.6.2012 did not state
anything about the sexual assault upon her but later on gave a
concocted story about having been drugged and sexually
assaulted by the two accused in her statement dated 28.6.2012
upon tutoring of her parents. He has pointed out various material
discrepancies and contradictions in the testimony of the
prosecutrix to demonstrate that she is not a reliable and
believable witness. He submitted that the medical evidence on
record also does not support the allegations of rape as well as un-
natural sex. The ld. counsel argued that the evidence led by both
the parties, indicates that the prosecutrix and accused Prashant
had planned an outing for 14.6.2012 and the prosecutrix had left
her residence for the specific purpose of spending good time in the
company of Prashant. He submitted that the prosecutrix consumed
alcohol on her own wish and whatever happened to her thereafter
was due to voluntary alcohol consumption for which none of the
two accused can be held responsible and for this very reason the
prosecutrix did not say anything against any of the two accused in SC No.63/13. Page 6 of 82 her very first statement to the police recorded on 15.6.2012. He
argued that the evidence led in defence establishes the fact that
the accused Prashant became scared on finding prosecutrix in
highly intoxicated state and did not know what to do and hence
made a call to his friend i.e. accused Milind seeking his help. He
submitted that once Milind met Prashant and the prosecutrix, they
sent information to prosecutrix's parents through Aastha (PW13)
that they would drop the prosecutrix at PVR Priya Cinema as they
wanted the prosecutrix to reach home safely. He submitted that
even the own witness of the prosecution namely Manisha (PW11)
has supported the version of the accused. He submitted that both
the accused are totally innocent and urged this court to acquit
both of them. 12. Reiterating the arguments raised on behalf of the
accused Prashant, ld. counsel appearing for accused Milind, further
submitted that Milind was totally unaware that his friend Prashant
is in the company of prosecutrix on the date of incident
(14.6.2012) and that the prosecutrix has become intoxicated. He
further submitted that it was only on the repeated phone calls of
Prashant that Milind agreed to meet him and accordingly reached
Rajouri Garden Petrol Pmp where he parked his vehicle outside the
Petrol Pump at about 5.30 or 6 pm. He submitted that upon seeing
the condition of the prosecutrix, Milind asked Prashant to drop her
at a safe place and hence her parents were informed through
Aastha that prosecutrix would be dropped at PVR Vasant Vihar.
The ld. counsel submitted that Milind had joined Prashant after
5.30 pm and he was totally unaware about what had happened
before that time. It is submitted that the evidence on record shows SC No.63/13. Page 7 of 82 that Milind had only extended help to his close friend Prashant in
dropping his friend Prosecutrix at PVR Priya. He submits that
otherwise also there is no evidence on record to suggest that the
prosecutrix had been molested or sexually assaulted by any of the
two accused on 14.6.2012 and her testimony is neither credible
nor reliable. He also pleaded for acquittal of both the accused. 13. Both the defence Counsels submitted that the IO of
the case has not acted impartially and appears to have conducted
investigation under the directions of the parents of the
prosecutrix. According to them, IO is liable to be penalized for not
annexing the handwritten statement of witness Manisha alongwith
the Charge Sheet and withholding the same from the court. It was
argued by the Ld. Counsels that had the said written statement of
Manisha been filed alongwith the Charge Sheet, probably both the
accused would have been discharged at the stage of Charge itself
and would have been saved from facing the ordeal of long trial
before the court as rape accused or atleast would have been
released on bail at an earlier stage of the case as the said
statement of Manisha completely exculpates both the accused.
They submitted that the IO did so to please the parents of
prosecutrix to ensure that the accused remains behind the bars for
a long time. 14. The prosecutrix has been examined as PW4. Her
examination in chief is a very lengthy one spanning over eight
pages. Its relevant portion is reproduced herein below:- 15 days. One male police official and one female police
 official met me in the hospital. The name of the lady
 official was Seema Singh. She told me not to say
 anything about the assailants as it would spoil their
 future. She further told me that if I wanted, she would
 ask the assailants to give some money to me. But I
 did not change my statement. Seema Singh recorded
 my statement in the hospital. I signed that statement.
 I have seen statement dt. 15.6.2012. It bears my
 signature at point A. The same is ExPW4/A.
 Thereafter, I had submitted my written
 statement to the police. I identify the said statement
 from the record. It bears my signature at point A on all
 its pages. The same is ExPW4/B." 15. She further deposed that after discharge from the
hospital, she was produced before a ld. Magistrate who recorded
her statement which she proved as Ex. PW4/D. She also deposed
that she had identified the boy in white colour shirt, who had also
raped her alongwith accused Prashant, during TIP in Tihar Jail. She
identified her signatures at point A on the TIP proceedings
Ex.PW4/E. In answer to a leading question put to her by the ld. APP
with the permission of the court, she denied that she had shown to
the IO the spot from where she was abducted. She identified both
the accused and stated that accused Milind is the boy who was in
white colour shirt on the date of incident. 16. In the cross examination conducted on behalf of
accused Milind, she could not say whether she was using mobile
phone No.9899953556 on 14.6.2012. She stated that she was in
touch with accused Prashant through mobile phone before the
date of incident also and knew Manisha for almost a year before
the date of incident. She stated that her mother was using mobile
phone No.9871735551 and her father was having mobile phone
No.9818352009. She did not remember whether she had sent text
messages to accused Prashant on the night intervening between
13.6.2012 and 14.6.2012 and denied that they had fixed a
meeting for 14/6/2012 at Priya Cinema, Vasant Vihar through text
messages. She did not remember whether she had sent thirteen
messages to accused Prashant and had received 14 messages
from him during the night on 14.6.2012 between 12.03 a.m. and
12.40 a.m. She deposed that Prashant met her and Manisha at
Priya Cinema around 1 pm. She admitted that accused Prashant
did not get off the car and she as well as Manisha boarded the car
and left the spot immediately. They dropped Manisha at the Auto
stand, which is opposite the spot where they had boarded the car.
She could not tell whether Prashant was using mobile No.
9990444702 on the date of incident. She deposed that Prashant
and Aastha were her class mates in BBA Course and she knew
Aastha for the last three years. 17. She stated that according to the original plan, she was
going to watch movie with Manisha but they had not decided as to
in which cinema hall would they watch the movie. She did not
remember the movie name which they planned to watch. They SC No.63/13. Page 17 of 82 had planned to watch 1.30 pm show and were proceeding towards
Saket Mall. She was wearing a T-shirt, Jegging and a shirt on that
day. She deposed that after dropping her near the Police
Barricade, Prashant and Milind stopped there for some time. She
stated voluntarily that they were threatening her. She did not
remember whether any police official had come near the barricade
and talked to Prashant and Milind. She admitted that SI Seema
Singh had not met her in the hospital on 14.6.2012 and 15.6.2012.
She denied that she was discharged from AIIMS on 15.6.2012 and
had spent the night intervening between 15.6.2012 and 16.6.2012
at her home. She did not remember whether she was bleeding
from any body part when she was brought to hospital on
14.6.2012. She did not know who had brought the ice bag with
which she was hit on the head. Accused Milind (the boy in white
colour shirt) had hit her with ice bag on the head. According to
her, there was only a bed and a black colour stabilizer in the room
in which the incident took place. There was no air conditioner
installed in that room. She did not know whether there was any
fan. It was a bit dark when they reached that place. She could see
the other under construction buildings nearby. She explained that
it was late in the evening and the Sun had already set when they
reached there but it was not night time. In answer to a specific
question, put to her in this regard, she stated that she meant to
say that there was no Sunlight and not that the Sun had set. She
denied hat she was consuming Hukka and Vodka alongwith
accused Prashant in his car on 14.6.2012 from 2.15 pm onwards
and that Prashant had brought Hukka from the shop of one Pawan. 18. She deposed that she did not tell police during the SC No.63/13. Page 18 of 82 course of investigation of this case to take her to Paschim Vihar.
She did not know the area where the under construction building
was situated where she had been taken by the accused. She was
carried into the said building by the two accused, Milind holding
her by shoulder and Prashant holding her legs. She stated that she
did not loose consciousness when she was travelling in the car
with the accused but was not in her full senses. She stated that
accused Prashant had come in black colour car when he met her
and Manisha in PVR Cinema but when she was being taken in the
car after the incident of rape, she noticed that it was white colour
car. 19. She did not remember whether Manisha had called on
her mobile number on 14.6.2012 at 4.43 pm and talked to her for
about 95 seconds. She also did not remember whether she had
talked to her friend Aastha on mobile phone 18 times from 4.45
pm to 8.14 pm on that day. She only remembered having talked to
Aastha only once when she was dropped by the accused from their
car. She did not know how she was taken by her parents from the
car up to their first floor flat as she was unconscious. She was in
conscious state when her mother and brother met her and was
holding the police barricade. She became unconscious just a few
minutes thereafter. She did not remember whether she had
received any phone call from her mother on the date of incident
between 5.16 pm and 7.27 pm. She also did not remember
whether she had received ten phone calls from her father between
4.45 and 6.51 pm on that date. She further denied all the
suggestions put to her by the ld. counsel. 20. In the cross examination conducted on behalf of
accused Prashant, she deposed that accused Prashant had
contacted her on phone about a month before the date of incident
regarding his backlog papers. He only needed the information i.e.
the dates of the examination etc. and did not need any study
material. Thereafter she started casually sending replies to his
messages. They did not converse with each other on WhatsApp.
She stated that she met the accused Prashant for the first time on
14.6.2012. She denied that any boy named Vibhor was their class
mate in BBA Course. She stated that she and Prashant had been
messaging each other several times during the day and the
messages were regarding the routine day matters. She stated that
her parents were aware that she is going alongwith Manisha on
14.6.2012 and her parents had given her permission for the same.
She had informed Prashant by way of sms that she and Manisha
are going for a movie. Prrashant called her in the morning of
14.6.2012 to say that he is also going to join them for the movie.
She did not tell her parents that Prashant is also joining them for
movie. She denied having sent any text messages or whats app
messages to Prashant in the night intervening between 13.6.2012
and 14.6.2012 asking him to chalk out the programme for next
days' outings. She deposed that after she and Manisha met
Prashant at PVR Vasant Vihar, Manisha changed the plan and said
that she is going to meet her friend Himanshu. She denied that
she liked accused Prashant and actually she as well as Manisha
made a plan to meet their respective boy friends. Her brother
knew about the exchange of text messages between herself and
Prashant. She had called Manisha soon after she left them to tell
her that she is going back home and thereafter she did not call her SC No.63/13. Page 20 of 82 during the day. She had told Prashant on 13.6.2012 that she
alongwith Manisha is going to watch movie on 14.6.2012. She did
not inform her any other friend about the programme to watch
movie. When she told Manisha that Prashant is also joining them
for the movie, Manisha did not show any sort of happiness but was
OK with it. According to her, Manisha had heard the name of
Prashant from her earlier but did not know him. Upon boarding the
car of Prashant at PVR Vasant Vihar, she sat on the front
passenger seat and Manisha sat in the middle of the rear seat.
After exchanging greetings casually, Manisha suddenly informed
them about change of her plan. Prashant was OK with her change
of plan. Thereafter she and Prashant cancelled the plan for
watching movie. Accused Prashant purchased a bottle of coke
from a vendor at some distance ahead of the spot from where they
had boarded his car. After opening the seal of the bottle, he
handed over the same to her. He did not open the seal of the
bottle in her presence. He had taken a sip from the bottle. He
poured the coke in a plastic glass and offered it to her. He took
beer himself straight from the can which he was having in the car.
After pouring coke in her glass, he started the car and moved
towards Vasant Vihar T Point wherefrom he took right turn. As
soon as she finished the coke, she started feeling giddy. She told
Prashant to stop the car as she wanted to call her mother. She was
conscious at that time although she was feeling uneasy. She was
not able to shout or resist the acts of the accused on account of
uneasiness. She could not tell after how much time she lost her
consciousness whether it was after ten minutes or after half an
hour etc. She added that she remained semi conscious till she was
hit by an ice bag by the accused in a under construction building SC No.63/13. Page 21 of 82 and thereafter she became unconscious. She only remembered
answering to the call of her mother when they were in the under
construction building. She stated that the person in white colour
shirt i.e. accused Milind had boarded the car after ten minutes
after she finished coke bottle. 21. She further deposed that her statement was not
recorded by the IO on 15.6.2012. She stated that her statement
has been recorded twice but did not remember the dates. She
denied that she had made statement dated 28.6.2012 Ex.PW4/B at
the instance of her parents. She did not know wherefrom did the
accused Milind got the white colour bottle having 'Magic' word on
it. She stated that accused had pulled down her trouser and
underwear upto knee level but she did not remember as to which
of the accused did so. She was not in a position to raise alarm as
they had stuffed a handkerchief in her mouth and also she did not
see anybody around. She did not see any sign board affixed on the
building into which she was taken. According to her, the two
accused did not meet any third person in the under-construction
building. There was no guard available in the building. The room
into which she was taken, was locked and its lock was opened by
the accused Prashant. While accused Prashant was opening the
lock, accused Milind was holding her. She could not tell the type of
lock in the door of the room. She stated that there was no
television, fridge etc. in the room. She did not remember whether
the room had any attached bathroom. There was no water tap in
any corner of the room. There was no liquor bottle or any food
items in the room. She stated that till the time she was semi
conscious, both the accused remained with her and did not go out SC No.63/13. Page 22 of 82 of the room. There was very dim light in the room. She did not
know which of the accused removed her clothes and where did
they keep her clothes after removing those from her body. There
was no bucket or mug in the room. She could not tell where the
accused had received any phone call or made any phone call
during the course of commission of crime. 22. She further deposed that she regained consciousness
in the same room and at that time there was very dim light in the
room. It was dark outside. She could not tell the source of light in
the room. She was in a semi conscious state when she talked to
her mother. She did not recollect having seen the accused taking
off their clothes and then wearing the clothes back as she was not
able to notice the things happening around her. She could see,
accused Prashant was wearing a red colour T-shirt and blue jeans
and accused Milind was wearing a white colour shirt. She could not
tell from which utensil was water poured upon her and how much
quantity of water. She did not recollect the time for which accused
kept driving from the under-construction building till they dropped
her. She did not speak of either Manisha or Aastha during that
period. She did not know whether any of the accused spoke to
them during that period. She was not aware whether her parents
or her brother spoke to accused Prashant any time during the
whole episode. She did not know the place where the accused had
dropped her and for how much time they stopped at that place
before leaving. Accused Prashant had come out of the car, pulled
her out of the car and made her to stand near the police barricade.
She further denied all the suggestions put to her. 23. The father of the prosecutrix has been examined as
PW5. He deposed that he knew that his daughter had gone to
watch a movie with her friend Manisha on 14.6.2012. He made 2
or 3 calls on her mobile number at about 4 p.m. or 4.30 p.m. but
she did not pick up the phone. When he rang up again, she picked
up the phone, she was weeping loudly and crying but told him that
she is alright and would be coming home. He immediately called
his wife telling her that the prosecutrix is not well and asked her to
contact the prosecutrix to see if she is alright. Thereafter, he again
called the prosecutrix. She picked up the phone and was crying
loudly "Prashant leave me, leave me, it pains me". She again
called his wife and asked her if she knew any boy named Prashant
and told her to find out who this Prashant is. His wife called him
after about 10 or 15 minutes and told him that she has got mobile
phone number of one Aastha, the friend of the prosecutrix.
Meanwhile, he and his son Lasser Kumar had set out in his car in
search of the prosecutrix. 24. He further deposed that his son made a call on the
mobile number of Prashant and asked him where the prosecutrix
is. Prashant told him that she has consumed liquor and cannot
talk. Lasser asked Prashant where they were, so that they could
come to take the prosecutrix, upon which Prashant asked them to
reach IIPM, Mahipalpur. It was 5.30 p.m. at that time. Meanwhile,
his wife also met them on the way and all the three reached IIPM,
Mehrauli in his car. They waited there for about half an hour and
then his son again called Prashant. Prashant told them tom wait
and continued to dodge them till 7.45 p.m. by asking them to
reach various places like Tivoli Garden, Mehrauli, AVM Farm, SC No.63/13. Page 24 of 82 Chhatarpur and IIPM, Mehrauli, PVR Select City Mall, Saket, etc.
From IIPM, Mehrauli, his wife and his son left in another car and he
continued to travel in his car. He further deposed that he received
a call from his wife at about 8.45 p.m. saying that the prosecutrix
has been found and asked him to reach home as they are also
going towards home. He reached home at 8.30 p.m. and about 5
to 7 minutes thereafter his wife and son also reached there
alongwith prosecutrix. The prosecutrix was in a very bad shape at
that time. His wife offered her black coffee but she did not take it
and became unconscious. They took her immediately to AIIMS
Trauma Centre and reached there at 9.30 p.m. or 10.00 p.m. The
prosecutrix was kept there under observation throughout the
whole night and many tests were conducted. She was getting fits
and her voice was trembling. She was crying and shouting. The
prosecutrix was shifted to Emergency Ward of AIIMS between 3.30
a.m. and 4.00 a.m. in the night in an ambulance. She was then
referred to Psychiatric Department for observation and treatment.
She was shifted to an isolated room in Psychiatric Ward of AIIMS
on 17.6.2012. He stated that finally the prosecutrix was
discharged from AIIMS on 29.6.2012. Police had met him in
Trauma Centre, AIIMS and made inquiries from him. He further
stated that he felt that the Investigating Officer SI Seema Singh
was not taking this case seriously and hence he had met ACP/DCP
and the SHO, P.S. Vasant Vihar, regarding the same, who assured
him that he would get justice. He had also filed a written complaint
Ex.PA in the office of DCP in this regard. 25. Prosecutrix's mother has appeared as PW10 for the
prosecution. She deposed that her daughter 'D' alongwith her SC No.63/13. Page 25 of 82 friend Manisha had left home at about 12 noon or 12.30 p.m. on
14.6.2012 to watch a movie at PVR Cinema, Vasant Vihar. She
herself had to leave for Ghaziabad for some work in the afternoon
and before leaving home, she made a call at the mobile number of
her daughter 'D' at about 4.00/4.30 p.m. but she did not pick up
the phone. When she was driving her car towards Ghaziabad, she
received a call from her husband saying that he has talked to the
prosecutrix who does not seem to be O.K. She made call at the
mobile number of the prosecutrix 2 or 3 times but the prosecutrix
did not pick up the phone. Thereafter, she made call to Manisha
who told her that the prosecutrix is with her. When she asked
Manisha to give the phone to the prosecutrix, Manisha
disconnected the phone. She again made a call to Manisha, who
told her that they are in Ambience Mall, Vasant Kunj. Accordingly,
she took U-turn and reached Ambience Mall, Vasant Kunj, where
she met Manisha but the prosecutrix was not with her. She asked
Manisha about the prosecutrix, who told her that the prosecutrix
had gone alongwith her college friend and she does not know their
names and mobile numbers. She asked Manisha to accompany her
to the police station for lodging a complaint but Manisha refused.
At that same time, she received a call from her husband, who told
her that prosecutrix is weeping on phone and was saying that
'Prashant leave me'. Her husband asked her whether she knew
Prashant and she replied in negative. She made various calls to
the friends of the prosecutrix and one of those namely Aastha told
her that Prashant is studying in their class. On her request, Aastha
provided her the mobile number of Prashant. She made calls on
the said number and asked Prashant about the prosecutrix who
told her that the prosecutrix is with him. She asked him about his SC No.63/13. Page 26 of 82 location so that she can bring back the prosecutrix and he told her
to meet him in front of IIPM, Chhatarpur. Meanwhile, while she was
driving towards police station alongwith Manisha, her husband and
her son also reached there and met them. 26. She further deposed that they too reached IIPM,
Chhatarpur and when Prashant as well as prosecutrix did not reach
there for about 10 to 15 minutes. She again called Prashant and
he asked them to reach AB Farm, Chhatarpur. She alognwith her
husband and son reached AB Farm, Chhatarpur, but Prashant did
not meet them there also. She again made call to him and this
time, he asked them to reach Tivoli Garden, Chhatarpur. Prashant
did not meet them there also and she again called him. He asked
them to reach Select City Mall, Skaet, but he did not meet them
there also. She made a call at the mobile number of the
prosecutrix and the call was answered by Prashant, who asked
them to reached PVR Cinema, Saket. When Prashant did not meet
them there also, she made a call again to him and this time he
asked them to reach IIPM, Chhatarpur. She stated that whenever
she dialled mobile number of the prosecutrix, it was picked up by
Prashant, who was telling them to reach one place or the other but
did not allow them to talk to the prosecutrix. 27. She further deposed that they became intensely
anxious when they did not find Prashant and the prosecutrix at
any of the aforesaid places. Thereafter it seemed to her that
Prashant had blocked the mobile numbers of herself, her husband
and her son as the calls got disconnected instantly whenever they
dialled mobile number of Prashant. Accordingly, she made a call SC No.63/13. Page 27 of 82 to Aastha requesting her to talk to Prashant. Thereafter, Aastha
called her back and told her that Prashant would not handover the
prosecutrix to them but would not handover the prosecutrix to her
(Aastha) only. He had asked Aastha to reach IIPM, Chattarpur. She
apprised Aastha about the registration number of her car and told
her to tell Prashant that she (Aastha) would be reaching there in
the said car. Thereafter she alongwith her husband and son
reached IIPM, Chhatarpur, but did not find Prashant or the
prosecutrix there. She again made a call to Aastha requesting her
to talk to Prashant. Aastha called her back after sometime saying
that Prashant's mobile phone is switched off. She then called
mobile number of the prosecutrix, which was picked up by
Prashant, told her to wait near IIPM, Chhatarpur, as he would be
reaching there alongwith the prosecutrix. However, Prashant did
not come there and accordingly, she again made a call to Aastha
requesting her to call Prashant again and to say him that the
prosecutrix's parents are going to lodge a complaint against him
with the police. Accordingly, Aastha again called Prashant who told
her that parents of the prosecutrix should not come to pick her up
and she (Aastha) should wait for him near Priya Cinema, Vasant
Vihar. Accordingly, she alongwith her son reached Priya Cinema,
Vasant Vihar and saw the prosecutrix standing against a wall at
the back of McDonald restaurant and was weeping. Her clothes
were wet and were smelling of alcohol, her eyes were red and her
hair was loose. There were finger marks on her face and face also
was red. There were finger marks on her throat also. She was in a
frightened state and was repeating only one sentence "Prashant
leave me, don't beat me". Many persons had gathered at the spot.
The prosecutrix was not able to walk properly. She tied up SC No.63/13. Page 28 of 82 prosecutrix's hair and with the help of her son took her up to the
car and made her to sit in the car. Thereafter they proceeded
towards home. On the way also, prosecutrix kept on weeping and
repeating the aforesaid sentence. She informed her husband that
the prosecutrix has met them. 28. She further deposed that upon reaching home, she
changed the clothes of the prosecutrix. it was about 8.30 p.m. at
that time. She tried to enquire from prosecutrix as to what had
happened but she was not able to speak and kept on weeping. She
prepared coffee for her but by that time prosecutrix became
unconscious. Her husband had already reached home before their
arrival. Thereafter, they took the prosecutrix to LNJP Trauma
Centre where she was admitted for treatment. She made a call at
telephone no.100 from the hospital from her mobile no.
987173551. Police officials came from P.S. Vasant Vihar and tried
to make inquiries from the prosecutrix but she was not in a
position to tell them anything. She stated that the condition of the
prosecutrix remained critical throughout the night and kept on
weeping and repeating the aforesaid sentence. She stated that the
prosecutrix was referred to AIIMS for psychiatric treatment on
15.6.2012. she was admitted to Psychiatric Ward and was kept in
an isolated room. She, her husband and her son alone were
allowed to meet the prosecutrix. They were advised not to leave
any sharp object or any type of long cloth near the prosecutrix.
She deposed that the prosecutrix remained admitted in AIIMS till
29.6.2012 and the police could not make inquiries from her during
that period because of her critical condition. She stated that while
the prosecutrix was being counselled by Dr. Diksha on SC No.63/13. Page 29 of 82 17/18.6.2012, she told the doctor that she had been raped. Dr.
Diksha apprised them about what prosecutrix had told her and at
that point of time, they came to know that their daughter has been
raped by Prashant and Milind. Thereafter, upon her enquiries,
prosecutrix told her in the presence of Dr. Diksha that Prashant
and Milind had committed rape upon her and had threatened to
kill her. Prosecutrix also told her that they had also committed
anal intercourse with her and prepared a video film and also
threatened her not to disclose the incident to anybody or
otherwise, they would show the video to her friends. They had also
snatched her golden neck chain and bracelet. She stated that
thereafter Dr. Diksha consulted her seniors and police was called.
She apprised the police officials about what prosecutrix had told
her. A fresh medical examination of the prosecutrix was conducted
in AIIMS on the same day by Dr. Moumita in her presence. She
noticed that there was a swelling in the shape of a tennis ball just
above the rectum of the prosecutrix. Dr. Moumita told her that
there is rupture in the hymen of the prosecutrix. Thereafter,
prosecutrix was counselled in AIIMS till 29.6.2012. She stated that
the police officials had again come to the hospital on 28.6.2012
and recorded the statement in presence of the doctor. 29. Lasser Kumar, the brother of the prosecutrix, has been
examined as PW14. He deposed that he was present at his home
on 14.6.2012 as it was a college holiday and on that day his sister
i.e. prosecutrix had gone to watch a movie at PVR Cinema, Vasant
Vihar, alongwith her friend Manisha. He received a call from his
father at about 4 p.m. or 4.30 p.m. saying that he had talked to
the prosecutrix but her voice seemed to be heavy and was saying SC No.63/13. Page 30 of 82 "Prashant leave me". His father asked him to be ready as they
would have to go in search of the prosecutrix. His father reached
home in about 10 to 15 minutes and they left in search of the
prosecutrix. They reached P.S. Vasant Kunj and waited for his
mother. His mother reached there alongwith Manisha and
thereafter Manisha left. He alongwith his parents reached AB Farm
in search of the prosecutrix. His mother talked to Prashant on
phone, who told her to meet at IIPM, Mehrauli. Thereafter Prashant
asked them to reach Tivoli and then to various other places and
thus he met them to travel from one place to another place for
about three hours. He then asked them to reach Select City Mall,
Saket. He alongwith his mother reached there whereas his father
was at Chattarpur. Meanwhile, Prashant had blocked the mobile
numbers of all of them. Prashant did not meet them at Saket.
Hence his mother made a call to a friend of the prosecutrix namely
Aastha requesting her to talk to Prashant and to enquire where he
was. Aastha called back his mother after about 5 to 10 minutes
and told her that the prosecutrix is in Vasant Vihar. Accordingly,
he and his mother reached Vasant Vihar and saw prosecutrix
standing with the support of a wall in the side lane adjacent to
McDonald restaurant. Her clothes were wet and were smelling of
liquor. There were finger marks and bite marks on her face and
neck and hands. They brought her home and also informed his
father about the prosecutrix. His father also reached home
straightaway. His mother changed the clothes of the prosecutrix
and gave her black coffee but she fainted before taking coffee
thereafter he and his father took prosecutrix to Trauma Centre,
Safdarjung Hospital, and his mother made a call at telephone no.
100 from the hospital. Prosecutrix was weeping bitterly and was SC No.63/13. Page 31 of 82 also getting fits and hence they shifted to her to AIIMS Hospital. He
further deposed that after two days, prosecutrix told him as well
as his parents in the hospital in presence of doctors that she was
subjected to rape and unnatural sex by Prashant and another boy
wearing white shirt whom she did not know. Prosecutrix remained
admitted in Psychiatric Ward/isolated room of the hospital for
about 15 days. 30. In the cross examination, he admitted that he had
mentioned in his statement to the police that after reaching home,
the prosecutrix had told him that the accused Prashant and
another boy had sex as well as unnatural sex with her. 31. Ms. Astha, the friend of the prosecutrix, has been
examined as PW13. She deposed that on 14.6.2012 at about 4.30
p.m. or 5.00 p.m. when she was present in the house of her
parental aunt (Bua) at Ghaziabad, she received a call from the
mother of the prosecutrix, who asked her whether prosecutrix is
with her. She replied in negative. Prosecutrix's mother also asked
her whether she knew any boy named Prashant and she told her
that Prashant studies in her class. She also told prosecutrix's
mother that she would try to find out Prashant's mobile number
from other classmates and would convey the same to her. She
sent messages to various classmates on their mobile phones as
well on the Facebook and one of them named Ankit gave her the
mobile number of Prashant, which she conveyed to the
prosecutrix's mother. After some time, prosecutrix's mother again
called her saying that they are not able to connect to Prshant's
mobile number despite various attempts and requested her to SC No.63/13. Page 32 of 82 make a call to Prashant and ask him about the prosecutrix. She
made a call to Prashant, who told her that the prosecutrix is with
him and disconnected the phone. She again made a call at
Prashant's mobile number but it was switched off. Then she made
a call at prosecutrix's mobile number, which was answered by
Prashant. She asked Prashant to let her talk to the prosecutrix, to
which he replied that the prosecutrix is unconscious and
disconnected the phone. She again made calls at mobile number
of the prosecutrix 2 or 3 times but nobody picked up the phone.
After some time, she again made a call at the said number and
this time, it was picked up by Prashant, who told her that they
have prepared a nude video of the prosecutrix and threatened to
kill the prosecutrix if she narrated this to anybody and
disconnected the phone. She made another call after some time
and told Prashant to tell her where the prosecutrix is, so that she
would come and pick her up. Prashant again repeated the threats
and further told her that he would handover the prosecutrix to her
only if she comes alone to pick her up. She assured Prashant that
she would come alone to pick up the prosecutrix, upon which
Prashant told her that they would drop the prosecutrix near Priya
Cinema, Vasant Vihar. She immediately made a call to the mother
of the prosecutrix telling her that they would drop prosecutrix near
Priya cinema, Vasant Vihar. She again made a call at mobile
number of the prosecutrix at about 7.30 p.m. or 8.00 p.m., which
was answered by the prosecutrix herself, who was weeping and
told her that she has been dropped by these persons somewhere
and is in intense pain as they have committed very wrong act with
her. Prosecutrix requested her to come and pick her up as passers-
by are looking upon her. Thereafter the call got disconnected. She SC No.63/13. Page 33 of 82 again made a call at prosecutrix's mobile number, which was
picked up by her mother, who told her that they have met the
prosecutrix. 32. In the cross examination, she deposed that after
finishing BBA Course in May, 2012, she had gone to her home
town. However, she had been summoned to Delhi by police
officials and accordingly she reached Delhi on 28.6.2012, on which
date her statement was recorded in the police station by SI Seema
Singh. She was confronted with her statement u/s.161 Cr.PC
wherein major portion of her examination in chief does not find
mention. She further stated that she was using mobile no.
9711709658 in June, 2012 and is still using the same mobile
number. The police officials had not demanded from her the
mobile phone bill or the call details record in the month of June,
2012. She stated that she had visited the house of the prosecutrix
2 or 3 times. She did not remember whether the prosecutrix had
contacted her through phone on 13.6.2012 or on 14.6.2012 upto
1.00 p.m. She was not aware whether the prosecutrix and
Prashant used to exchange messages with each other on
Whatsapp, Facebook etc. she did not meet the prosecutrix from
14.6.2012 to 28.6.2012. She had talked to the prosecutrix's
mother on 16.6.2012 or 17.6.2012 who apprised her about what
had befallen upon the prosecutrix and also told her that she is
admitted in the hospital. She also told her that the prosecutrix has
been raped by Prashant and other boy. 33. The another friend of the prosecutrix namely Manisha
has been examined as PW11. She deposed that she is residing in SC No.63/13. Page 34 of 82 the neighbourhood of the prosecutrix and both were taking
coaching classes together for LLb. Entrance examination. After
appearing in the said entrance examination, on 10.6.2012, they
made a plan to watch a movie with their friends on 13.6.2012 or
14.6.2012. She received a call from the prosecutrix on 11.6.2012
or 12.6.2012 informing her that they will be going for movie on
14.6.2012 and not on 13.6.2012. She stated that the prosecutrix
came to her house on 14.6.2012 at about 12 noon and they left
from her house at about 12.15 p.m. While travelling in the auto
rickshaw, prosecutrix told her that she is going to meet her friend
Prashant and they will not be going for any movie. She did not
know Prashant. She further deposed that the prosecutrix asked the
auto rickshaw driver to drop them at PVR Priya, Vasant Vihar,
where they waited for Prashant to come who reached there after
about 45 minutes in a black colour Honda Civic car. The
prosecutrix introduced her to Prashant and then boarded the car
of Prashant. Prosecutrix asked her where would she go now and
she told her that she would go to Amity University, Noida, for
counselling for LLb .Course. She asked prosecutrix where they
would be going, who told her that they would go to meet their
friend at Rajouri Garden or Punjabi Bagh and asked her to call her
at 4 p.m. She made calls to her friend asking them to meet her at
Select City Mall, Saket. After reaching Saket, she got a call from
the prosecutrix and told her that she is going to Amity University
alongwith her friend but did not tell her where she was. Thereafter
her friend joined her and they went to Amity University, Noida. 34. She further deposed that when they were present at
Evergreen restaurant, Green Park, at about 4 p.m. she received a SC No.63/13. Page 35 of 82 call from prosecutrix's brother Lasser, who enquired about the
prosecutrix. She told him that she had left prosecutrix at PVR Priya
Cinema alongwith her friend Prashant. Lasser told her that the
prosecutrix is drunk and is not able to talk. Thereafter she
received a call from the mother of the prosecutrix and told same
thing to her also. While travelling from Green Park towards her
house, she made calls to her mother saying that the prosecutrix is
not with her and prosecutrix's brother Lasser has informed her
that the prosecutrix is drunk. She received several calls from the
brother and mother of the prosecutrix. The mother of the
prosecutrix asked her to stop where she was and at that time, she
was travelling towards Vasant Kunj. She stopped at Ambience Mall,
Vasant Kunj, and informed prosecutrix's mother about the same.
Before reaching there, she made a call at the mobile number of
the prosecutrix but she did not pick up the phone. After that call,
she had received a call from an unknown number and when she
picked up the phone, it was Prashant on the other side, who told
her that the prosecutrix is heavily drunk and is not able to stand
up. She talked to the prosecutrix who seemed to be heavily drunk
and told her that she has consumed excessive alcohol and is not
able to walk properly. Prosecutrix asked her to stop where she was
and not to tell her mother about her condition. Then she talked to
Prashant who told her that he would drop the prosecutrix at PVR
Cinema, Vasant Vihar, within half an hour. Meanwhile,
prosecutrix's mother reached Ambience Mall, Vasant Vihar, and
met her. She again told her that she is not aware about the
whereabouts of the prosecutrix. The mother of the prosecutrix got
annoyed with her and threateningly took her to P.S. Vasant Vihar,
in her car. She also slapped her in the car. She gave mobile SC No.63/13. Page 36 of 82 number of Prashant to the mother of the prosecutrix, from which
she had received the call. From the police station Vasant Vihar,
they started proceeding towards Vasant Kunj and meanwhile,
prosecutrix's mother received a call from her son Lasser and
accordingly, she was dropped near Kunj Motors at Nelson Mandela
Marg where Lasser was waiting in another car. Thereafter both the
cars left. Her mother and brother came to that spot and took her
home. 35. She further deposed that after about 10 or 15 days,
she received a call from WSI Seema Singh asking her to reach P.S.
Vasant Vihar. Accordingly, she alongwith her brother reached P.S.
Vasant Vihar where SI Seema Singh made inquiries from her and
recorded her statement. She stated that Ex.PW11/A is her
statement in writing. It is in her handwriting and bears her
signature at point A and had handed over the same to SI Seema
Singh. In the cross examination, she deposed that the mother of
the prosecutrix had dropped her at Kunj Motors at Nelson Mandela
Marg at about 6 p.m. and by that time the darkness has not set in.
she stated that she did not give any other statement to the police
official except the aforesaid statement Ex.PW11/A. 36. PW8 Dr. Mahesh Barambey was first to examine the
prosecutrix after she was brought to AIIMS Hospital by her parents.
He deposed that the prosecutrix was brought to the hospital by
her parents on 14.6.2012 with the history of assault. Upon her
physical examination, she did not find any external injury on her
body except bruises on face and neck. He prepared MLC
Ex.PW8//A and directed her NCCT Head, CX Spine, X-ray Chest, X- ray Pelvis and Ultrasound to be taken. He further stated that some
police officials had come to record the statement of the
prosecutrix on 15.6.2012. As the prosecutrix was not fit for
statement, he made endorsement on the MLC Ex.PW8/B to the
effect "patient is unfit for statement". He stated that during the
same night at about 3.30 a.m., police officials again came to
record her statement. At that time, she was fit for statement and
accordingly, he made endorsement on the MLC Ex.PW8/C to the
effect "patient is fit for statement". He stated that the police
officials did not record her statement in his presence. 37. In his cross examination, he deposed that they
declared the patient fit for statement, if the patient is conscious
and talks coherently. He stated that the parents of the prosecutrix
were present near her when he made observation Ex.PW8/C on the
MLC. He also stated that the history mentioned by him on the MLC
was given to him by the parents of the prosecutrix but he did not
recollect whether it was given by her mother or by her mother.
According to him, the bruise marks on the face and neck of the girl
were superficial in nature. 38. PW7 Dr. Moumita had examined the prosecutrix in
AIIMS Hospital on 15.6.2012. She deposed that on that day, the
prosecutrix was brought to the hospital for her medical
examination. She examined the prosecutrix and found the
following external injuries on her body : 39. She deposed that no stain marks were present around
anus and both buttocks. She did not notice any fresh injury mark
around anal opening. She made four slides of anal swab. The
parents of the prosecutrix handed over her dress and
undergarment to her which she handed over to the police
Inspector accompanying the prosecutrix. She prepared MLC
Ex.PW7/A. In the cross examination, she could not say why and in
what context is the no.314431 mentioned at point X on the MLC.
She admitted that this number is written by her in her own hand.
She was told that this is the MLC number and that is why she
wrote this number. She had seen the MLC of the prosecutrix
prepared in Jai Prakash Narain Apex Trauma Centre, New Delhi,
before examining her. She deposed that since the prosecutrix was
brought to her for only anal examination as there was history of
sodomy. She examined only the anal area of the prosecutrix and
did not examine her reproductive system. She stated that scrum
is the lower most bone of vertebral column which is a hard bone
by nature. According to her, a person can suffer injury on his/her
scrum bone on account of a fall but not on account of anal
intercourse. 40. PW6 Dr. Diksha has deposed that she examined the
prosecutrix in AIIMS Hospital on 28.6.2012 and found her fit to give
statement. She made endorsement in this regard on the
application Ex.PW6/A submitted by the IO for recording the
statement of the prosecutrix. She deposed that the prosecutrix SC No.63/13. Page 39 of 82 jotted down her statement in her own handwriting in her presence.
She stated that Ex.PW4/B is the said statement which was written
by prosecutrix in her presence and bears her signature at point B
on each page. In the cross examination, she stated that the police
officials had desired that they want a neutral person to be present
during recording of the statement of the prosecutrix and
accordingly she was deputed by senior residents for the said
purpose. She could not tell the corelation of date 14.6.2012
appearing at point X on statement Ex.PW4/B and why the same
has been written at that place. She stated that the discharge
summary of the prosecutrix Ex.PW6/B has been issued by AIIMS
and bears signature of Dr. Anish at point A. She had given a copy
of the discharge summary to the IO pursuant to her written
request. 41. Dr. Bichitra Nanda Patra appeared in place of Dr. Anish
and has been examined as PW16. He identified the signature of
Dr. Anish on the MLC of the prosecutrix Ex.PW6/B. 42. PW17 SI Gopi Ram was the initial investigating officer
of the case. He deposed that on 14.6.2012 at about 11 p.m., on
receipt of DD No.43A from the Duty Officer to the effect that an
injured girl i.e. prosecutrix has been admitted in AIIMS Trauma
Centre, he alongwith Const. Hari Singh reached AIIMS Trauma
Centre and found the prosecutrix admitted there for treatment. He
obtained the MLC of the prosecutrix from the doctor. He also
seized three sealed pullindas and one sample seal given to him by
the doctor vide seizure memo Ex.PW17/A. The doctor also handed
over to him the blood sample of the prosecutrix in a separate SC No.63/13. Page 40 of 82 sealed pullinda which he seized vide memo Ex.PW17/B. The doctor
declared the prosecutrix unfit for statement regarding which he
made endorsement on the MLC. Since he did not find any eye
witness in the hospital, they returned to police station and again
came back to AIIMS Trauma Centre in the morning of 15.6.2012.
Upon reaching there, they came to know that the prosecutrix has
been shifted to main AIIMS Hospital for treatment. They also
reached the main AIIMS Hospital. He met the prosecutrix and
recorded her statement Ex.PW4/A. He prepared rukka Ex.PW17/C
and sent it to the police station through Const. Hari Kishan for
registration of the FIR. 43. He further deposed that the mother of the prosecutrix
was present in the hospital at that time and she gave him the
mobile number of Prashant. Thereafter he returned to the police
station. Const. Hari Kishan handed over the original rukka and
copy of FIR to him in the police station. He obtained the call detail
records of mobile phone of Prashant on the same day. Thereafter,
he alongwith Const. Hari Kishan reached the house of Prashant
and arrested him vide arrest memo Ex.PW15/A. He also seized the
Honda Civic car bearing registration no.DL-4CAH-5210 which was
parked in front of Prashant's house. A mobile phone of make Nokia
was recovered from the personal search of Prashant which was
seized by him vide memo Ex.PW15/C. Thereafter, accused
Prashant took them to the house of accused Milind in Janakpuri,
who was arrested vide memo Ex.PW15/D. He also seized the white
colour car, which was produced by Prashant's brother, on
16.6.2012 vide memo Ex.PW17/D. On the same day, he visited
AIIMS Hospital again and obtained another MLC of the prosecutrix. At that time, the doctor handed over to him, a sealed pullinda
which he seized vide memo Ex.PW17/E. He deposed that
thereafter further investigation was handed over to SI Seema
Singh. 44. In the cross examination, he admitted that he was
using mobile no. 9968421843 on 14.6.2012 and 15.6.2012. He
however stated that he was not carrying the said mobile phone
with him when he had gone to arrest the two accused as he had
left the same in the police station for charging purpose. He stated
that he had received DD No.43A at 10.55 p.m. on 14.6.2012 and
reached AIIMS Hospital in about 15 or 20 minutes thereafter. He
returned to the police station at about 1 a.m. in the night and
again reached AIIMS Hospital at about 4.30 a.m. in the morning.
He did not collect any document from AIIMS Trauma Centre at that
time. An official sitting in the enquiry desk told him that the
prosecutrix has been shifted to AIIMS Hospital. He recorded the
statement of the prosecutrix at about 6 a.m. in presence of her
mother. He sent rukka to the police station at about 6.15 a.m. He
came to know about the residential address of Prashant from the
call details record of his mobile phone and reached there at about
2.30 p.m. 45. PW2 SI Krishan Lal was the Duty Officer in P.S. Vasant
Vihar on 14.6.2012 from 4 p.m. to 12 midnight. He deposed that
he received information from wireless operator at 10.05 p.m.,
which he recorded as DD No.43A Ex.PW2/A and its contents were
intimated to SI Gopi Ram for suitable action. The information was
to the effect "a boy named Prashant had taken my daughter for SC No.63/13. Page 42 of 82 watching a movie, who was later found in unconscious state near
Priya Cinema." 46. PW3 was the Duty Officer of P.S. Vasant Vihar on the
night intervening between 14.6.2012 and 15.6.2012 from 12
midnight to 8 a.m. He deposed that he received information from
AIIMS Trauma Centre at about 12.20 a.m. to the effect that a girl
named 'D' has been admitted in the hospital by her father in
injured condition vide MLC No.314131. He recorded the
information as DD No.4B and proved it as Ex.PW4/A. At 6.40 a.m.
in the morning, he received rukka from Const. Hari Kishan sent by
SI Gopi Ram and registered FIR Ex.PW4/B on the basis of the same.
He deposed that the investigation of the case was marked to SI
Gopi Ram after registration of the FIR. 47. Sh. Pawan Singh, Nodal Officer of M/s. Idea Cellular
Limited, has been examined as PW9. He proved the customer
detail in respect of mobile no. 9990444702, according to which the
same has been allotted in the name of Prashant Sablani. He also
proved the call details record of the said mobile phone from
14.6.2012 to 18.7.2012 as Ex.PW9/C, certificate u/s.65B of the
Evidence Act in support of the same as Ex.PW9/D. He proved the
Cell ID Chart of the company as Ex.PW9/E. 48. Sh. Deepak, Nodal Officer of M/s. Vodafone Mobile
Services Limited, has been examined as PW12. He proved the
customer detail in respect of mobile no. 9999942289, according to
which the same has been allotted in the name of Mrs. Nisha
Kapoor. He also proved the call details record of the said mobile SC No.63/13. Page 43 of 82 phone from 13.6.2012 to 16.6.2012 as Ex.PW12/C, certificate u/s.
65B of the Evidence Act in support of the same as Ex.PW12/D. He
proved the Cell ID Chart of the company as Ex.PW12/E. 49. IO SI Seema Singh has been examined as PW18. She
deposed that after the investigation of this case was entrusted to
her on 17.6.2012, she visited AIIMS Hospital where the prosecutrix
was admitted in Psychiatric Ward but the doctor declared her unfit
for statement. However, the Doctor told her that it is a case of
sodomy and accordingly section 377 IPC was added to the FIR. She
visited AIIMS Hospital again on 3 or 4 times to record statement of
the prosecutrix but on all occasions, she was declared unfit by the
doctor. She stated that the prosecutrix was ultimately declared fit
for statement by the doctor4 on 28.6.2012, on which date she
made inquiries from her. The prosecutrix gave her statement in
writing Ex.PW4/B, on the basis of which she added section 376 IPC
to the FIR. She further deposed that the prosecutrix was
discharged from the hospital on 29.6.2012 and on 30.6.2012 she
alongwith prosecutrix visited the spot where she had been
dropped by the accused after the incident and prepared its rough
site plan Ex.PW18/A. She also obtained the medical documents of
the prosecutrix from Psychiatric Department of AIIMS on the same
day. She got the statement u/s.164 Cr.PC of the prosecutrix
recorded on 07.7.2012. The potency test of both the accused was
got conducted by her on 11.7.2012 and she seized their blood
samples vide memo Ex.PW18/C. She got conducted the TIP of
accused Milind in Tihar Jail on 12.7.2012 wherein he was correctly
identified by the prosecutrix. She recorded the statements of all
the material witnesses. She obtained call details record of mobile SC No.63/13. Page 44 of 82 phone of the prosecutrix as well as of both the accused and also
obtained the footage of CCTV cameras installed on the outer wall
of Priya Cinema Hall, Vasant Vihar, wherefrom the prosecutrix had
been taken by the accused. 50. In the cross examination, she deposed that the
prosecutrix was not cooperating with her in the investigation and
for this reason, she had to visit Tihar Jail to interrogate the two
accused to know about the details and the place of incidents. The
prosecutrix did not show her the place where she had been raped.
Prosecutrix kept on telling her that she does not remember
anything. She did not recollect the name of the doctor, who told
her that it is a case of sodomy. She talked to the prosecutrix for
the first time in AIIMS Hospital on 28.6.2012. She denied having
issued any threat to the prosecutrix that she should not make any
allegation against the two accused. She could not say why the
prosecutrix had written "14th June" on the top left hand corner of
the first page of her statement Ex.PW4/B. She stated that the
father of the prosecutrix used to come to the police station to
meet the SHO. The prosecutrix did not accompany her to any
place during the course of investigation as she was not prepared
to do so. She stated that the parents of the prosecutrix had visited
her residence once. She stated that Ex.PW11/A is the statement in
the handwriting of Manisha, which Manisha had given to her. She
admitted that Manisha had not supported the case of the
prosecution in the said statement and for this reason, she did not
annex the same alongwith Charge Sheet. She had apprised the
SHO about the said statement of Manisha. The SHO had not
instructed her not to annex the said statement alongwith Charge SC No.63/13. Page 45 of 82 Sheet. She admitted that they annex alongwith Charge Sheet only
those documents which favour the prosecution and normally all
those documents which favour the accused are withheld. She
deposed that the reports dated 05.7.2012 Ex.PW18/D1 and
Ex.PW18/D2 were prepared by her pursuant to the directions of
Ms. Madhu Jain, Ld. A.S.J., who was hearing the bail application of
accused and she filed these reports before that court. She
admitted that the complaint Ex.PW18/D3 was received in the
police station from Ms. Nisha Kapoor and was marked to her for
inquiry. She had made inquiries on the said complaint and later on
filed the same. She admitted that she did not visit Hotel Taj Mahal,
Khan Market, during the inquiries in the aforesaid complaint to
verify whether accused Milind was present there on 14.6.2012 and
if so, at what time. She did not conduct verification regarding the
movement of accused Milind and the prosecutrix has mentioned in
the complaint Ex.PW18/D3. She deposed that the spot where the
prosecutrix was dropped after the incident is seen in photograph
nos.6, 9, 11 & 15 forming part of Ex.PW18/D4 and these
photographs had been filed by her at the time of hearing of bail
application of the accused. She admitted that the two police
officials are seen in these photographs talking to the accused. She
did not find out the particulars of these police officials in order to
make inquiries from them. She had not made any inquiry from
Pawan Pan Store, Central Market, Punjabi Bagh. She further denied
all the suggestions put to her. 51. Following witnesses have been examined by the
accused in their defence :- Victoria w/o Sharad Kumar. He proved its call detail records
 from 14.6.2012 to 7.7.2012 as Ex. DW2/C and the certificate
 u/s 65 B of Evidence Act in support of the call detail record
 as Ex. DW2/D. (iii)DW3 Sh. Karan Bhatia. He is a college friend of accused
 Milind and deposed that accused Milind alongwith another
 college friend namely Dhruv had come to his house on
 14.6.2012 at 11 am as Milind's shirt had become dirty on
 account of profuse sweating and he had to go to Hotel Taj to
 participate in a Management Training Programme. He
 (Milind) had come to his house to change his shirt. He stated
 that Milind changed his shirt in his house and then left
 alongwith Dhruv for hotel Taj. They had stayed in his house
 just for five to seven minutes. In the cross examination, he
 deposed that Milind and Dhruv had come to his house in
 Santro car of Milind. He had given his white colour shirt to
 Milind to wear. He did not talk to Milind thereafter during the
 day. (iv)DW4 Sh. Dhruv Tyagi, another college friend of Milind. He
 deposed that Milind had come to his maternal uncle's house
 at Vikas Puri on 14.6.2012 at about 10.30 am where he was
 residing at that time. Milind had come to help him in shifting
 to his rented accommodation at Satya Niketan. He deposed
 that on account very high temperature on that day, Milind's SC No.63/13. Page 47 of 82 shirt had become dirty due to profuse sweating and
 according they first went to the house of their common
 friend Karan at Ramesh Nagar where Milind changed his
 shirt and wore Karan's shirt. They left Karan's house at
 about 11 am or 11.30 am and reached Hotel Taj where
 Milind had to participate in some orientation programme and
 remained there till about 1 pm or 1.15 pm and then went to
 Khan Market, where he had to recharge his mobile phone.
 Thereafter they went to his rented accommodation at about
 2.30 pm. Theyordered meals from outside and after taking
 meals, waited for another friend to come but he did not
 come. He stated that Milind left at about 4 pm or 4.30 pm. In
 the cross examination, he deposed that initially Milind was
 wearing blue colour shirt and later on he wore Karan's white
 colour shirt. He stated that he had taken his mattress,
 kitchen utensils, microwave oven etc. from his maternal
 uncle's house to his rented accommodation on 14.6.2012.
 He had not gone to meet Milind in Jail after his arrest in this
 case. (v) DW5 Sh. Arun Mali works as General Manager (Learning and
 Development), Hotel Taj Mahal, New Delhi. He stated that
 there was no orientation or induction programme in the
 hotel on 14.6.2012 and the said programme was expected
 to be in Aurangabad in the month of July, 2012. According to
 him, letters had been sent to the candidates to come to the
 hotel on any day and to collect their medical forms. He
 admitted that some candidates had come to the Hotel on
 14.6.2012 to collect their medical forms for the said
 Orientation/Induction Programme. He had brought original SC No.63/13. Page 48 of 82 entry/exist register maintained at the Staff Security Gate of
 the Hotel and proved the copy of the relevant page
 pertaining to the date 14.6.2012 as Ex. DW5/A. It may be
 noted here that Ex.DW5/A shows that Milind had entered the
 Hotel premises at 12.25 pm and left at 1.10 pm.

 Discussion on the evidence led by the parties and the
 rival submissions made on behalf of parties. 52. As already noted herein-above, the FIR has been
registered on the basis of statement Ex.PW4/A of the prosecutrix
recorded by PW17 ASI Gopi Ram in AIIMS Hospital in the morning
of 15.6.2012. The only allegation levelled by the prosecutrix in the
said statement is that the accused Prashant alongwith his friend
had beaten her after administering some intoxicating substance
mixed in Coke to her. She has nowhere mentioned in the
statement that she had been sexually assaulted by accused
Prashant and his friend. She appears to have mentioned the
incident of intoxication and sexual assault in detail in her
statement dated 28.6.2012 Ex.PW4/B which is in her own
handwriting and was handed over by her to PW18 SI Seema Singh.
It is in this statement that she has stated that some liquid from a
bottle having word 'Magic' written on it was poured into her
mouth, on account of which she lost her energy and was not able
to shout, was beaten by the two accused, the accused tried to
have sex with her in the car but could not and then was taken to
an unfinished house and was subjected to vaginal sex as well as
anal sex by the two accused. 53. In the statement Ex.PW4/B, prosecutrix has nowhere
explained what prevented her from mentioning the whole incident
in detail in her statement Ex.PW4/A dated 15.6.2012. It was
argued by the Ld. APP that since the prosecutrix had been forced
to consume excessive alcohol by the two accused, on account of
which she was not in her complete senses when she was brought
to AIIMS Trauma Centre by her parents and had not come out of
intoxication fully when her statement Ex.PW4/A was recorded and
therefore, she could not describe the complete incident in the said
statement. She further argued that apart from being in intoxicated
state, the prosecutrix was also in a state of depression and was
having fits as well as hallucination and therefore, it was not proper
to record her statement in such state of mind. 54. However, the arguments raised by the Ld. APP, does
not find support from the medical evidence on record. It is the
case of the prosecution itself that when the prosecutrix was
brought to AIIMS Trauma Centre by her parents on 14.6.2012, she
was examined by PW8 Dr. Mahesh Barambey vide MLC Ex.PW8/A.
The MLC shows that the prosecutrix was brought to the hospital at
about 10.28 p.m. with alleged history of assault and was found on
the road side unconscious and in intoxicated state. PW8 did not
find any external injury on her body except bruises on face and
neck. He has deposed that the police officials had come to record
the statement of prosecutrix on 15.6.2012 but as she was not fit
for statement at that time, he made endorsement Ex.PW8/B on the
MLC to the effect "patient is unfit for statement". He further
deposed that during the same night at about 3.30 a.m., police
officials again came to record her statement. At that time, she was SC No.63/13. Page 50 of 82 fit for statement and accordingly, he made endorsement Ex.PW8/C
on the MLC to the effect "patient is fit for statement". It is after
PW8 declared the prosecutrix fit for statement that her statement
was recorded by PW17 SI Gopi Ram, who was the initial
investigating officer in the case. PW8 in his cross examination has
deposed that they declare a patient fit for statement if the patient
is conscious and talks coherently. He has also stated that the
parents of the prosecutrix were present near him when he made
endorsement Ex.PW8/C on the MLC declaring the prosecutrix fit for
statement. 55. Therefore, it is evident from the testimony of PW8
itself that the prosecutrix was conscious and talking coherently
when her statement was recorded by PW17 after he declared her
fit for statement. Her parents were present near PW8 at that time
and did not raise any objection when he declared her fit for
statement or when her statement was recorded by PW17. PW17
has deposed in his cross examination that he recorded statement
of the prosecutrix at about 6 a.m. in presence of her mother and
then sent rukka to the police station at about 6.15 p.m. Hence the
evidence on record shows that the prosecutrix was conscious,
oriented and talking coherently when her statement Ex.PW4/A was
recorded by PW17 in presence of her mother and for that reason,
her parents did not object to recording of her statement. 56. The prosecutrix has admitted in her testimony that
Ex.PW4/A is her statement and bears her signature at point A. She
has nowhere stated that she was not fully conscious or was under 57. The prosecutrix thus has conveyed that she gave
statement Ex.PW4/A despite the pressure exerted upon her by
Seema Singh not to say anything against the assailants as it would
spoil their future. This too signifies that the prosecutrix was
conscious and in full senses before her statement Ex.PW4/A was
recorded. There is nothing in the testimony of the prosecutrix to
suggest that she was not in full senses when her statement
Ex.PW4/A was recorded and hence was not able to describe the
whole incident in detail. It may be noted here again that in this
statement, prosecutrix has not alleged any type of sexual assault
upon her by any of the accused. 58. The prosecutrix has not stated anything in her
deposition as to when she was shifted from AIIMS Trauma Centre
to main AIIMS Hospital and why. Her father PW5 has deposed that SC No.63/13. Page 52 of 82 as she was getting fits, was crying as well as shouting, she was
shifted to Emergency Ward of AIIMS Hospital between 3.30 a.m.
and 4.00 a.m. in the night in an ambulance and was then referred
to Psychiatric Department for observations and treatment. He
deposed that she was shifted to an isolated room in Psychiatric
Ward of AIIMS on 17.6.2012. Her mother PW10 has deposed that
her condition remained critical throughout the night after
admission in AIIMS Trauma Centre and kept on weeping and thus
was referred to AIIMS for psychiatric treatment. She also deposed
that the prosecutrix was admitted to Psychiatric Ward where she
was kept in an isolated room and they were advised not to leave
any sharp object or any type of long cloth near her. The Ld. APP
has miserably failed to point out any evidence on record to show
that the prosecutrix was referred from AIIMS Trauma Centre to
main AIIMS Hospital during the night of 15.6.2012 itself for
psychiatric treatment as her condition was critical. Alongwith MLC
Ex.PW8/A of the prosecutrix prepared in AIIMS Trauma Centre,
there is one "Transfer Out Form" on record (now marked as Mark-J
for the purposes of identification) which has remained to be
proved by the prosecution. However, since it is the document of
the prosecution itself and has been filed alongwith Charge Sheet,
it can be considered and read in evidence without its formal proof,
if it helps the defence. It is this document, by which the
prosecutrix was taken out of AIIMS Trauma Centre and admitted in
main AIIMS Hospital. The reason for transfer given in the said form
is "Regret no beds, transfer to any other government hospital,
patient needs observation, patient needs admission". It also
mentions that patient be referred to new AIIMS SR psychiatric
opinion for malingering. Therefore, it is evident that the SC No.63/13. Page 53 of 82 prosecutrix was not referred to main AIIMS Hospital for any further
treatment and management. She was advised to be taken to some
other hospital as there were no beds available in AIIMS Trauma
Centre and she needed observations. Further it is also evident that
it appeared to the doctors examining the prosecutrix in AIIMS
Trauma Centre that she is faking psychiatric disorders and
therefore was referred to the opinion of SR (Psychiatric) in AIIMS
for malingering. Hence the argument that the prosecutrix
remained critical throughout the night, was getting hallucination
and was not in control of her senses is not substantiated by the
medical evidence on record. The MLC or any other document
under which the prosecutrix was admitted in AIIMS Hospital in the
morning of 15.6.2012 after transfer from AIIMS Trauma Centre has
not been produced or proved on record. The opinion of SR
(Psychiatric) of AIIMS Hospital has not been produced on record.
The Psychiatrist, who has examined and treated the prosecutrix in
AIIMS Hospital, has not been examined as a witness. There is no
evidence on record to show or suggest that the prosecutrix had
developed suicidal tendencies and thus was kept in isolated ward
with advise to her parents not to leave any sharp object or long
cloth near her. 59. The fact remains that the prosecutrix did not tell either
her parents or the doctor, who examined her in AIIMS Trauma
Centre on 14.6.2012 or the IO PW17, who recorded her statement
in the morning of 15.6.2012 that she had been subjected to
vaginal as well as anal intercourse forcibly by the two accused. It
is not clear from the evidence on record as to when did she
narrate the incident of rape for the first time and to whom. Prosecutrix's father PW5 has not stated anything in this regard in
his deposition. Her mother appearing as PW10 has deposed that
while the prosecutrix was being counselled by Dr. Diksha on 17th or
18th June, 2012, she told Dr. Diksha that she had been raped and
Dr. Diksha apprised them about what prosecutrix had told her and
it is at that point of time that they came to know that their
daughter had been raped by Prashant and Milind. She further
deposed that she herself talked to the prosecutrix thereafter, who
told her in presence of Dr. Diksha that Prashant and Milind had
committed rape as well as anal intercourse with her and also
prepared her video film and threatened her to show the video film
to her friends in case she disclosed the incident to anybody. She
further deposed that Dr. Diksha then consulted her seniors, who
called police. She also made a call to P.S. Vasant Vihar and
apprised the police officials about what prosecutrix had told her
and on the same day, fresh medical examination of the prosecutrix
was conducted in AIIMS by Dr. Moumita in her presence. She
noticed a swelling in the shape of a tennis ball just above rectum
of the prosecutrix. Dr. Moumita had told her that there is a rupture
in the hymen of the prosecutrix. In the cross examination, she
reiterated that she came to know for the first time on 17.6.2012 in
AIIMS that her daughter had been sexually assaulted. She did not
know whether police officials had recorded her statement on that
day i.e. 17.6.2012. She reiterated that the prosecutrix narrated the
whole incident to her on 17.6.2012 in presence of Dr. Diksha. She
further deposed that her husband was with her when she was
informed by Dr. Diksha that the prosecutrix had been sexually
assaulted. She had handed over the undergarment of tjhe
prosecutrix, which she was wearing at the time of incident, to the SC No.63/13. Page 55 of 82 doctor, who conducted her medical examination. 60. Thus, as per the testimony of PW10, Dr. Diksha told
her in presence of her husband on 17.6.2012 in AIIMS Hospital that
the prosecutrix had been raped and thereafter the prosecutrix
herself narrated the whole incident of rape and anal intercourse to
her on the same day. However, PW5, the husband of PW10, has
maintained eerie silence regarding this fact. He has nowhere
deposed that his wife was informed by Diksha in his presence on
17.6.2012 that the prosecutrix had been raped. It cannot be
believed that a father would forget that he had come to know from
Dr. Diksha that his daughter had been raped and would not state
anything about the same either in his statement u/s.161 Cr.PC or
in his deposition before this court. It was a very serious matter and
must have sent shivers down his spine and the same would have
remained etched in his memory. Not mentioning about the same,
in the statement to the police and in the deposition before this
court by PW5 is indicative of the fact that PW10 has deposed
falsely in this regard . Moreover, Dr. Diksha was nowhere in picture
on 17.6.2012. She had neither examined the prosecutrix on that
day nor was she attending the prosecutrix. Appearing as PW6, she
deposed that she examined the prosecutrix for the first time on
28.6.2012 and declared her fit to give statement. She deposed
that the IO had submitted application Ex.PW6/A seeking to know
whether patient 'D' is fit for statement and she made endorsement
X to X on the same declaring her fit for statement and then her
statement was recorded by the IO in her presence. Hence Dr.
Diksha had neither attended the prosecutrix nor examined her on
17.6.2012 and therefore there was no occasion for the prosecutrix SC No.63/13. Page 56 of 82 to narrate the rape incident to her. This too is indicative of the fact
that PW10 has fabricated a false story that Dr. Diksha told her on
17.6.2012 that she was informed by the prosecutrix that she had
been raped. Even prosecutrix has also not stated anything in this
regard in her testimony. 61. To add more confusion to the case, prosecutrix's
brother PW14 has deposed that after two days of the date of
incident, prosecutrix told him as well as his parents in hospital in
presence of the doctor that she was subjected to rape and
unnatural sex by Prashant and another boy. However, in the cross
examination, he admitted having mentioned in his statement to
the police that after they brought prosecutrix home on the date of
incident, she told him that accused Prashant and another boy had
sex as well as unnatural sex with her. It is thus seen that there is
no consistency or uniformity in the version of the prosecution
witnesses regarding the date when the prosecutrix disclosed for
the first time that she had been subjected to vaginal as well as
anal intercourse and to whom. All the aforesaid witnesses have
deposed contrary to each other in this regard. It is thus evident
that PW10 has deposed falsely that the prosecutrix had told Dr.
Diksha on 17.6.2012 that she had been raped and Dr. Diksha
apprised her about the same in presence of her husband. The
conduct of PW10 and PW5 also does not suggest that they had
come to know on 17.6.2012 that there daughter had been raped
and subjected to anal intercourse. None of them made a call at
telephone no.100. None of them lodged a complaint in this regard
either with the Duty Constable at AIIMS or in the concerned police
station. None of them contacted the IO PW17 to apprise him about SC No.63/13. Page 57 of 82 the said new development. 62. It may be noted here that the MLC of the prosecutrix
dated 17.6.2012 Ex.PW17/A is on record, which has been prepared
by PW7 Dr. Moumita. She has deposed that the prosecutrix was
brought to the hospital on that day for medical examination and
she examined her. She has not explained whether prosecutrix was
an indoor patient of the hospital or outdoor patient and who had
brought the prosecutrix to her for medical examination. However,
she has noted in the MLC Ex.PW7/A that the prosecutrix was
brought by her parents for gynecological examination and the
prosecutrix has given history of physical assault and sodomy. This
indicates that the prosecutrix was not perhaps an indoor patient of
the hospital and was brought to the hospital on that day by her
parents for gynecological examination. If, as per the prosecution
case and as deposed by PW5 & PW10, the prosecutrix had been
admitted to Psychiatric Ward of AIIMS on 15.6.2012 and had been
kept in an isolated room, then she should have been referred by
the doctor of Psychiatric Ward to gynecological department of the
hospital for gynecological examination and that too, if she had
narrated the incident of rape and anal intercourse to the doctor
attending her there. Nothing like that is demonstrated vide MLC
Ex.PW7/A. Further, if as per the testimony of PW10, prosecutrix
had informed Dr. Diksha on 17.6.2012 that she had been raped,
Dr. Diksha should have referred her to Gynecological Ward for
gynecological examination. That is also not the case. It appears
that the prosecutrix was not admitted in AIIMS Hospital and was
not an indoor patient and therefore was brought by her parents to
the hospital on that day for gynecological examination. What SC No.63/13. Page 58 of 82 prompted the parents of the prosecutrix to bring her to the
hospital on that day for gynecological examination cannot be
discerned from the evidence on record. It is also not
understandable as to why did not PW7 apprise her seniors in the
hospital about the same. It has already been noted that the
parents of the prosecutrix also did not inform police about the
rape and sodomy of the prosecutrix on that day. It patently
appears that the MLC Ex.PW7/A is not a genuine document and
has been fabricated later on to strengthen police case against the
two accused. 63. Even if the MLC Ex.PW7/A is taken on its face value,
there is a history of sodomy only and not of rape. PW7 has clarified
in her cross examination that since the prosecutrix was brought to
her for only anal examination as there was history of sodomy, she
examined only the anal area of the prosecutrix and did not
examine the vaginal area. PW7 had found following external injury
on the body of the prosecutrix on her examination : 64. She has deposed that a person can suffer injury of
his/her sacrum bone, which is lower most bone of vertebral column
and hard by nature, on account of a fall but not on account of anal
intercourse. She had not found any stain marks around anus and
both buttocks and also did not notice any fresh injury marks SC No.63/13. Page 59 of 82 around anal opening. Therefore, the findings arrived at by PW7
after the examination of anal area of the prosecutrix also do not
suggest that she had been subjected to anal intercourse. 65. However, one thing is manifest from the aforesaid
discussion that the prosecutrix was conscious and oriented atleast
on 17.6.2012 when she had been brought to the hospital by her
parents for gynecological examination and was examined by PW7.
Why did not she narrate the whole incident to her parents or to
PW7 on that day is what creates well founded doubt in the mind of
the court regarding veracity and credibility of the whole
prosecution case. 66. There is no further medical evidence on record as to
what treatment was given to the prosecutrix in AIIMS Hospital till
she was discharged on 28.6.2012 except the discharge summary
Ex.PW6/B. According to the testimony of PW6, the said Discharge
Summary was prepared by Dr. Anish, who had already left AIIMS
hospital by the time he was summoned to testify in the court and
PW16 Dr. Vichitra Nanda Patra appeared in his place to identify his
signature at point A on the same. The contents of the said
Discharge Summary also exposes the holes in the prosecution
case. It is the case of the prosecution that the prosecutrix had
been brought to AIIMS Trauma Centre in the late hours of
14.6.2012 by her parents and since her condition worsened during
the night and became critical, she was referred to main AIIMS
Hospital in early morning of 15.6.2012 where she remained
admitted in Psychiatric Ward till her discharge on 29.6.2012.
However, the Discharge Summary Ex.PW6/B shows that she was SC No.63/13. Page 60 of 82 admitted in AIIMS Hospital on 17.6.2012 and not on 15.6.2012 as
projected by the prosecution and reiterated by PW5 as well as
PW10 in their testimony before this court. The 'Transfer Out Form'
Mark-J, reference to which has already been made herein-above,
issued by AIIMS Trauma Centre on 15.6.2012 at 3.39 a.m. shows
that she was taken out of AIIMS Trauma Centre on that day.
Discharge Summary Ex.PW6/B shows that she was admitted in
AIIMS Hospital on 17.6.2012. So where did she remain on
15.6.2012 and 16.6.2012 is not clear from the evidence on record
which lends credence to the arguments raised by the Ld. Counsel
for the accused that the prosecutrix was quite well upon leaving
AIIMS Trauma Centre and therefore had been taken home by her
parents and was brought to AIIMS Hospital on 17.6.2012 to get her
admitted fictitiously in Psychiatric Ward in order to fabricate a
false case against the two accused. It has nowhere been
mentioned in the Discharge Summary that the prosecutrix had told
any doctor, who treated and examined her in AIIMS Hospital that
she had been subjected to vaginal as well as anal intercourse and
had been referred to gynecological department on 17.6.2012 for
gynecological examination. This shows that nobody knew till
28.6.2012, when the prosecutrix submitted a written complaint to
the IO, that she had been raped. 67. Therefore, it seems the section 377 IPC had been
fictitiously added to the FIR on 17.6.2012 with an ulterior motive to
prevent the two accused, who had been arrested on 15.6.2012,
from being released on bail. PW18 (IO) has deposed that she
visited AIIMS Hospital on 17.6.2012 where the doctor told her that
it is a case of sodomy and accordingly she added section 377 IPC SC No.63/13. Page 61 of 82 to the FIR. She did not recollect the name of the doctor, who told
her so. MLC Ex.PW7/A shows that the prosecutrix was examined by
PW7 Dr. Moumita on 17.6.2012, though she has mentioned in her
testimony that she examined the prosecutrix on 15.6.2012. No
statement of PW7 has been recorded by the IO on 17.6.2012. She
also has not mentioned in her testimony that she met IO on that
day and told her that it is a case of sodomy. As I have already
noted herein-above, PW10 has deposed that Dr. Diksha had told
her in presence of her husband on 17.6.2012 in AIIMS Hospital that
the prosecutrix has been raped and thereafter prosecutrix herself
narrated the whole incident of rape as well as anal intercourse to
her (PW10) on the same day. It has also been discussed herein-
above that Dr. Diksha was not in picture at all on 17.6.2012. It
appears that the IO did not make any inquiry from PW10 or her
husband PW5 on 17.6.2012. She has not recorded the statement
of the prosecutrix on that day at all. It appears that the prosecutrix
was able to speak coherently about the incident on that day in
view of the deposition of PW10 that the prosecutrix had narrated
the whole incident in detail to her. Therefore, the IO should have
recorded the statement of the prosecutrix and proceeded further
on that statement. 68. Thus it is manifest that section 377 IPC has been
added to the FIR on 17.6.2012 fictitiously at the instance of the
parents of the prosecutrix who fabricated a false story that they
were informed by Dr. Diksha that the prosecutrix has been
subjected to rape and anal intercourse by the accused. If it is to be
believed that Dr. Diksha had apprised PW10 that the prosecutrix
had been raped and thereafter prosecutrix also narrated the SC No.63/13. Page 62 of 82 incident of rape and anal intercourse to PW10, then section 376 IPC should also have been added to the FIR on the same day. That
being not the case, the prosecution case in this regard appears to
be motivated and concocted. 69. The prosecutrix has given her first detailed statement
on 28.6.2012 wherein she has mentioned about the intoxication,
abduction, rape, anal intercourse, beating etc. at the hands of the
accused. It is on the basis of the said statement of the prosecutrix
that section 376 IPC has been added to the FIR. This too falsifies
the deposition of PW10 and PW14 that the prosecutrix had
informed them on 17.6.2012 that she was subjected to rape by the
accused. 70. As per the deposition of the prosecutrix, she had made
a plan with her friend Manisha (PW11) to watch a movie at Saket
on 14.6.2012. Manisha lives in her neighbourhood and they had
planned to leave for movie at about 12 noon. When she was about
to leave her house, she received a phone call from accused
Prashant which she did not pick up. Instead there was exchange of
text messages between her and accused Prashant wherein she
informed him that she is going for a movie with Manisha and he
expressed his desire to go alongwith them for movie, to which she
did not show any resentment. Prashant conveyed to her that he
will meet them at Priya Cinema, Vasant Vihar. Accordingly,
prosecutrix and Manisha reached Priya Cinema, Vasant Vihar, in
an auto rickshaw and had to wait for Prashant for a long time. She
has deposed that Prashant arrived there in his black Honda Civic
car. They boarded Prashant's car. She sat on the front passenger SC No.63/13. Page 63 of 82 seat and Manisha sat on the rear seat and Prashant started driving
the car. She goes on to depose that at that moment, when they
were planning what to do, Manisha told them that she has to go to
meet her boyfriend Himanshu at Saket and told her to plan her
day with Prashant. Accordingly, Prashant took a U-turn and
dropped Manisha at auto rikshaw stand in Vasant Vihar and then
again took a U-turn towards traffic light. 71. The aforesaid deposition of the prosecutrix does not
appear to be convincing or believable. It does not appeal to reason
that when she and Manisha had made a plan to watch movie on
14.6.2012 why would Manisha change the plan abruptly after they
boarded the car of Prashant at PVR Cinema, Vasant Vihar. It
appears from the cross examination of the prosecutrix that she
had taken permission from her parents to watch a movie with
Manisha on 14.6.2012. She has also deposed in the cross
examination that she had told Prashant on 13.6.2012 that she is
going to watch movie alongwith Manisha on 14.6.2012. She had
not informed her any other friend about the said programme to
watch a movie. It is indicated from the testimony of the
prosecutrix that she made no attempt to persuade Manisha not to
leave her alone alongwith accused Prashant and to be with her
and to watch a movie as per plan. It seems that she wanted to get
rid of Manisha so that she can spend time with her friend Prashant
and for that reason was happy when Manisha told him that she is
going to meet her boyfriend. 72. From the deposition of Manisha (PW11), it appears
that the plan to watch movie was made on 10.6.2012 and the SC No.63/13. Page 64 of 82 prosecutrix had informed her on phone on 11.6.2012 that they will
be going for a movie on 14.6.2012. PW11 has further deposed that
the prosecutrix told her while travelling in auto rickhsaw that they
will not be going for any movie and in fact, she is going to meet
her friend Prashant. She further deposed that after Prashant met
them at PVR Priya, Vasant Vihar, prosecutrix introduced her to him
and then boarded Prashant's car. Prosecutrix then asked her
where would she go and she told her that she would go to Amity
University, Noida, for counselling for LLb. Course. Upon her inquiry,
prosecutrix told her that she alongwith Prashant would go to meet
her friend at Rajouri Garden and Punjabi Bagh and asked her to
call her (prosecutrix) at 4 p.m. 73. Thus PW11 has stated contrary to what has been
deposed by the prosecutrix. The version of PW11 seems to be
more convincing, reliable and truthful. She had given her
statement in writing to the IO during the course of investigation
but since it did not favour the prosecutrix, the IO did not annex the
said statement alongwith Charge Sheet. Said statement
Ex.PW11/A was produced by the IO during the examination of
PW11 in court pursuant to the directions issued by this court in
this regard. Her testimony before this court is consistent with
statement Ex.PW11/A, which bears the date as 07.7.2012.
Therefore, I see no reason to disbelieve the testimony of PW11.
Even otherwise also, it is not the case of the prosecution that
PW11 has testified under the influence of the two accused. 74. A combined reading of the testimony of the
prosecutrix as well as that of PW11 would demonstrate that the SC No.63/13. Page 65 of 82 prosecutrix had no intention to watch a movie with Manisha on
14.6.2012 and the plan for movie was hatched only to get an alibi
to leave house so that she is able to spend time with her friend i.e.
accused Prashant. Therefore, it is evident that the prosecutrix
herself wanted to meet and spend time with her friend accused
Prashant and accompanied him voluntarily from PVR Cinema,
Vasant Vihar, in his car after dropping Manisha at auto rickshaw
stand. The fact that the prosecutrix and accused Prashant were
having a close friendship with each other and probably were in
love with each other, is evident from the report Ex.PW18/D1
submitted by PW18 (IO) in the court of Ld. A.S.J. during the course
of hearing the bail application of the accused. The report
Ex.PW18/D1 reveals that nine text messages were exchanged
between the prosecutrix and accused Prashant from 12.03 a.m. to
12.10 a.m. in the night intervening between 13.6.2012 and
14.6.2012 and further 15 text messages were exchanged between
them from 10.35 a.m. to 11.44 a.m. on 14.6.2012. The exchange
of aforesaid text messages between the prosecutrix and the
accused at the dead of the night indicates that there was
something more between them than mere friendship and probably
they were discussing how to spend time in the company of each
other on 14.6.2012. Therefore, the prosecutrix has deposed falsely
that after they dropped Manisha at an auto rickshaw stand, she
asked Prashant to drop her also at auto rickshaw stand as her
cousins were waiting for her at her residence, but he offered to
drop her at home, to which she agreed. Admittedly, the
prosecutrix had taken permission from her parents to watch movie
with Manisha and thus was not expected to return home atleast
before 5 p.m. Where was the occasion for her to tell Prashant that SC No.63/13. Page 66 of 82 she has to reach home as her cousins are waiting for her. It
appears that she is consistently fabricating false stories to support
the prosecution case. 75. The deposition of the prosecutrix and PW11 reveals
that they had left from the house of PW11 at 12.15 p.m. The
prosecutrix has deposed in the cross examination that the accused
Prashant reached Priya Cinema around 1 p.m. She has further
deposed that she alongwith Manisha and Prashant were together
in Prashant's car for just 5 to 10 minutes and Prashant purchased
the Coke bottle about 2 or 3 minutes after dropping Manisha at
auto stand. She could not tell how much time did she take to
consume the glass of Coke. She however deposed that the person
in white shirt i.e. accused Milind boarded the car after about ten
minutes of her finishing the Coke bottle. So a rough estimate can
be reached that accused Milind boarded the car any time between
1.30 p.m. and 1.45 p.m. near T-point. However, the evidence on
record indicates that accused Milind and accused Prashant were at
totally different locations throughout the day on 14.6.2012
whereas accused Prashant and the prosecutrix were together. 76. The report Ex.PW18/D1 prepared by PW18 (IO) on the
basis of analysis of call details record of the mobile no.
9899953556 of the prosecutrix shows that her location was at
Vasant Vihar till 12.43 p.m. and thereafter she was at Paschim
Vihar at 1.44 p.m. She remained in Paschim Vihar area for a
considerable period of time and was near Gurudwara Singh Sabha,
DDA Flats, New Delhi, at 4.40 p.m. SC No.63/13. Page 67 of 82 77. The report Ex.PW18/D2 prepared by the IO (PW18)
regarding the movements of accused Milind on 14.6.2012 from the
analysis of call details record of his mobile phone no. 9999942289,
which report was submitted by her in the court of Ld. A.S.J. at the
time of hearing the bail application of the accused, shows that
accused Milind was moving in totally different directions. He was
present in C-2D Market, Janakpuri, at 10.12 a.m, in Shahpuri,
Delhi, at 10.32 a.m., near District Centre, Janakpuri, at 10.46 a.m.,
in Vikaspuri at 10.56 a.m., in Prem Nagar at 11.17 a.m., in Tilak
Nagar at 11.18 a.m. in Ramesh Nagar at 11.34 a.m., near Brar
Square railway station at 11.57 a.m., in Chankyapuri near Maurya
Sheraton Hotel at 12.01 p.m., in Chankyapuri at 12.13 p.m., at
Man Singh Road between 12.21 p.m. and 12.46 p.m., in Village
Nanakpura, New Delhi, from 12.46 p.m. till 3.23 p.m., in Satya
Niketan at 3.24 p.m., in Gopi Nath Bazar at 3.47 p.m., in his house
in C-2D Market, Janakpuri, at 4.48 p.m. where he remained till 5.35
p.m. Thereafter, the location of accused Milind kept on changing
and ultimately he was present at Rajouri Garden at 5.54 p.m. and
6.03 p.m. His location was then in Ramesh Nagar at 6.19 p.m., in
Bali Nagar at 6.26 p.m., in Raja Garden at 6.27 p.m., in Gurudwara
Singh Sabha, DDA Flats, Shivaji Enclave, between 6.56 p.m. and
7.08 p.m., in Vasant Vihar at 8.02 p.m., in Satya Niketan at 8.20
p.m., in Dhaula Kuan at 8.21 p.m., near Brar Square railway
station at 8.22 p.m. in Tagore Garden area at 8.43 p.m. and finally
in his house in C-2D Market, Janakpuri, at 8.49 p.m. 78. The report Ex.PW18/D2 further demonstrates that
accused Milind had received four calls from accused Prashant at
5.20 p.m., 5.25 p.m., 5.36 p.m., 5.41 p.m. and 5.47 p.m. on SC No.63/13. Page 68 of 82 14.6.2012 and the calls lasted for 75 seconds, 76 seconds, 19
seconds, 20 seconds and 16 seconds respectively. At that time,
the location of accused Prashant was at Shivaji Enclave, New
Delhi, whereas accused Milind in his house at Janakpuri. 79. The movements of accused Milind throughout the day
on 14.6.2012 as reflected from the aforesaid report Ex.PW18/D2, is
in consonance with the defence taken on his behalf that he met
the accused on that day for the first time at 6 p.m. He has stated
in his statement u/s.313 Cr.PC that he had been selected for
management training in the Taj Hotel and he had to reach the
Hotel Taj, Khan Market, on 14.6.2012 for medical test. He has
stated that he reached the Hotel Taj, Khan Market, at 11.30 a.m.
And remained there till 12.45 p.m. His friend Dhruv was with him
and then they went to Khan Market for recharging his mobile
phone. He stated that they left Khan Market at about 1 p.m. and
reached Satya Niketan around 2 p.m. as household articles of
Dhruv like utensils and bedding were in his car as he had shifted
from Vikaspuri to Satya Niketan where he had taken a flat on rent.
They remained in rented room of Dhruv in Satya Niketan till 4 p.m.
and also had lunch there. He left at about 4 p.m. and reached
home at 4.30 p.m. He received a call from accused Prashant after
about 15 to 20 minutes saying that his girlfriend is with him, who
is heavily drunk and he has become very scared. He stated that
upon persistent requests of Prashant, he met him at Rajouri
Garden petrol pump at 6 p.m., parked his car near petrol pump
and boarded Prashant's car. When prosecutrix saw him, she came
out of the car and sat on the rear seat of the car. He sat on the
front passenger seat. He noticed that prosecutrix was little drowsy SC No.63/13. Page 69 of 82 and Prashant was very scared as prosecutrix's parents had been
calling him as well the prosecutrix. On his suggestion, Prashant
bought some lemon and water, which prosecutrix took so that she
felt a little better. The prosecutrix told them that she wanted to be
little bit better as she cannot face her parents and accordingly
they drove in Rajouri Garden area for some time and thereafter
dropped her near McDonald restaurant, at Vasant Vihar at about
7.30 p.m. The prosecutrix told them that she is O.K. and her
parents would be coming any time and then they left. 80. Here it would be relevant to refer to the testimony of
aforementioned Dhruv Tyagi, who has been examined by the
accused in defence as DW4. He has deposed that accused Milind,
his college friend, had come to his maternal uncle's house at
Vikaspuri on 14.6.2012 at 10.30 a.m. where he was residing at
that time. Milind had come to help him in shifting to rented
accommodation at Satya Niketan. He deposed that on account of
very high temperature on that day, Milind's shirt had become dirty
due to profuse sweating. Accordingly, they went to the house of
their common friend at Ramesh Nagar where Milind changed his
shirt and wore Karan's shirt and they left Karan's house at 11 a.m.
They reached Hotel Taj at 11.30 a.m., where Milind had to
participate in some orientation programme and remained there till
1 p.m. or 1.15 p.m. Thereafter they went to Khan Market where he
had to recharge the mobile phone and from there, they went to his
rented accommodation at Satya Niketan at about 2.30 p.m. Milind
remained there till 4 p.m., during which period they had meals and
then he left. 81. Karan Bhatia, the common friend of Milind and Dhruv
appeared as DW3. He has fully supported the version of DW4. He
deposed that Milind and Dhruv had come to his house on
14.6.2012 at 11 a.m. as Milind's shirt had become dirty on account
of profuse sweating and he had to reach Hotel Taj to participate in
management training programme. He confirmed that the Milind
had come to his house to change his shirt. Milind changed his shirt
in his house and they left alongwith Dhruv in Hotel Taj. He
deposed that they stayed in his house for just 5 to 7 minutes. In
the cross examination, he deposed that he had given his white
colour shirt to Milind to wear and thereafter he did not talk to
Milind during that day. 82. It is also pertinent to refer here to the testimony of
DW5 who works as General Manager (Learning & Development),
Hotel Taj, New Delhi. He proved the photocopy of the relevant
page of the entry/exit register maintained at the staff security
gate of the hotel for 14.6.2012 as Ex.DW5/A which shows that
Milind had entered the hotel premises at 12.25 p.m. and left at
1.10 p.m. 83. Therefore, the defence raised on behalf of accused
Milind that he was not with Prasant and the prosecutrix throughout
the day on 14.6.2012 and he met them for the first time at about 6
p.m., is fully established from his movements as reflected by the
analysis of the call details record of his mobile phone no.
9899942289. The fact that he was with his friend Dhruv till 4 p.m.,
is evident from the testimony of DW3 and DW4. The fact that he
had gone to Hotel Taj and was there between 12.25 p.m. and 1.10 SC No.63/13. Page 71 of 82 p.m. is evident from the testimony of DW5. 84. In view of the evidence led by the prosecution itself in
the nature of documents Ex.PW18/D1 and Ex.PW18/D2 coupled
with the alibi raised by accused Milind in his statement u/s.313 Cr.PC which gets substantiated by the testimonies of DW3, DW4 &
DW5, it emerges undoubtedly that the prosecutrix has spoken a
blatant lie that accused Milind joined accused Prashant between
1.30 p.m. and 1.45 p.m. and then remained alongwith them
throughout the whole day. 85. Now since it is established on record beyond doubt
that accused Milind was not with accused Prashant on 14.6.2012
till about 6 p.m. and he met Prashant as well as the prosecutrix for
the first time around 6 p.m. on that day, upon repeated requests
from accused Prashant to help him in dropping the prosecutrix
safely at some place as she was in inebriated condition, the whole
prosecution case falls flat. Hence it is patently evident that the
prosecutrix has fabricated a false story of abduction, rape and anal
intercourse against the two accused. It has come in the evidence
of the IO (PW18) that after the prosecutrix was discharged from
the hospital on 29.6.2012, she did not cooperate in the
investigation and hence the IO had to visit Tihar Jail to interrogate
the two accused to know exactly what had happened on
14.6.2012. It is on account of non cooperation of the prosecutrix
that no effort was made by the IO to find out the under-
construction building wherein the crime is stated to have been
committed by the accused. From the testimony of the prosecutrix,
it appears that she was taken to a room on the first floor of an SC No.63/13. Page 72 of 82 underconstruction building wherein there was only one round bed
and a black colour stabilizer. She has stated that there was no
fridge or any water tap in the room. There was not even a bucket
or a mug in the room. She has also deposed in the cross
examination that both the accused had remained with her in the
room and did not go out of the room. Therefore, it is not
understandable from where did the two accused get the bag of ice
with which she was hit upon which she became unconscious. It is
not the case of the prosecution that the accused had carried the
bag of ice from their car alongwith them to the underconstruction
building. Even if it is assumed for the sake of argument that ice
bag had been brought by the two accused from their car alongwith
them, then also the ice would have melted by the time, they
committed rape and anal intercourse with the prosecutrix and it
would have been a bag of water and not ice. It is to be kept in
mind that the incident is stated to have taken place in the month
of June, 2012 when the temperature usually hovers around 40
degree Celsius. From the testimony of the prosecutrix, it also
appears that it was a sunny day on 14.6.2012 which indicates the
temperature would have been around 40 degree Celsius.
Therefore, it cannot be believed that the ice would have remained
in the bag intact for such a considerable period of time during
which the accused raped the prosecutrix one by one and also
committed anal intercourse with her one by one. 86. Prosecutrix has further deposed that before leaving
from underconstruction building, the accused decided to clean her
up and accordingly poured cold water upon her. They cleaned her
each and every body part and then made her to wear clothes. As SC No.63/13. Page 73 of 82 already noted herein-above, there was no water tap in the room
and not even any bucket or mug. Hence it also appears to be a
mystery as to from where did the two accused get so much of cold
water which they used to clean each and every body part of the
prosecutrix. 87. Prosecutrix has also deposed that accused Prashant
had a bottle in his hand which he banged and a piece of bottle
injured her left leg. However, MLC Ex.PW8/A shows that no such
injury was found in her left leg when she was brought to the
hospital by her parents on that day. 88. The testimony of PW13 Ms. Astha does not appear to
be credible and trustworthy. She has made marked improvements
over her previous statements recorded during the course of
investigation. She has deposed that when she made a call on the
mobile number of 'D' on the date of incident, it was picked up by
Prashant, who told her that they have prepared a nude video of
the prosecutrix and issued threats that in case she narrated this to
anybody, they will kill the prosecutrix and upload the said video on
the internet. At another place, she has deposed that she later on
also talked to prosecutrix on phone after she had been dropped by
the accused and she told her that she is in intense pain as the
accused have committed very wrong act with her. However, it
appears that she did not apprise the parents of the prosecutrix
about what Prashant and prosecutrix told her on phone. She also
has not stated so in her statement u/s.161 Cr.PC. Her statement u/s.161 Cr.PC has been recorded on 28.6.2012 i.e. just after 14
days of the incident and hence it cannot be said that she had SC No.63/13. Page 74 of 82 forgotten about the same. In view of these embellishments in her
testimony, she does not appear to be a credible and truthful
witness. 89. If the testimony of PW13 is believed, it shows that the
prosecutrix was conscious and speaking coherently after she was
dropped by the two accused at Vasant Vihar. The prosecutrix told
her that she had been subjected to very wrong act by the two
accused. The IO appearing as PW18 has deposed that she
alongwith the prosecutrix visited the spot, where prosecutrix had
been dropped by the accused after the incident, on 30.6.2012 and
she prepared rough site plan of the same Ex.PW18/A at the
instance of the prosecutrix. This too indicates that the prosecutrix
was fully conscious when she had been dropped by the two
accused on that spot after the incident and had noticed its
surroundings. It is only then that she pointed out the spot to the IO
and the site plan Ex.PW18/A was prepared. Therefore, one
wonders why did not the prosecutrix tell her mother and her
brother, who had picked her up from that spot, that she had been
subjected to wrong act by the two accused. The testimony of
PW10 also shows that the prosecutrix was conscious till she was
brought home by her and her son (PW14) and became
unconscious after her clothes were changed by PW10. It may also
be noted here that the prosecutrix too has deposed that after she
was taken by her brother and mother from the spot where she was
dropped by the two accused, she received a call from Prashant
which too is indicative of the fact that she was conscious while
travelling home from that spot alongwith her brother and mother. 90. The fact that the prosecutrix did not tell her mother
and brother while going home in the car with them from the spot
she was dropped at by the accused, that the accused had raped
and sodomised her would clearly demonstrate that she had not
been subjected to any such act. It further appears that the
prosecutrix had been dropped by the accused near a police
barricade where police officials were present on duty. IO (PW18)
has deposed in cross examination that photographs Ex.PW18/D4
are the CCTV grabs of the spot at the time when prosecutrix was
dropped there and she had filed these at the time of hearing of the
bail application of the accused. She has admitted (it can even be
seen by having a cursory look at the photographs) that in these
photographs, two police officials are seen talking to the accused.
The conduct of the accused in dropping the prosecutrix near a
police barricade in presence of police officials and even talking to
the police officials present there is indicative of the fact that they
did not have any guilty conscience and had not committed any
crime. Any person committing a crime for the first time in life
would never show such temerity to drop the victim near a police
barricade. Those two police officials, who had talked to the
accused, were very material witnesses. However, the IO did not
find it necessary to trace them and to make inquiries from them. 91. It is the case of the prosecution itself that the clothes
of the prosecutrix such as Top, Jacket, Pajama, Underwear and
Brassery which she was wearing on the date of incident as also her
pubic hair, nail clippings and anal smear (obtained by the doctor at
AIIMS Trauma Centre on 14.6.2014 itself and seized by PW17 vide
memo Ex.PW17/A) were sent to FSL for forensic examination. The SC No.63/13. Page 76 of 82 FSL report Ex.PC reveals that the semen was not found on any of
these. Hence the FSL result also contradicts the theory of rape and
anal intercourse. It was argued by the Ld. APP that since the body
of the prosecutrix was completely washed by the accused before
leaving the underconstruction building, for this reason no semen
could be found in her sample. The argument though seems having
force but is of no help to the prosecution. It is not the case of the
prosecution that the inner and outer clothes worn by the
prosecutrix on the date of incident too had been washed. That not
being the case, there should have been semen stains atleast on
her underwear and Pajami but no semen stains were found on
these two pieces of clothing also. 92. Thus, viewed from any angle, the proseuction case
does not appear to be credible, truthful or trustworthy. The
prosecution witnesses such as PW11 and th IO herself (PW18)
have exposed holes in the prosecution case. The evidence led by
the prosecution when read alongwith evidence led in defence,
demonstrates that the defence raised by the accused is more
probable and acceptable. The overall scrutiny of the evidence led
by both the parties reveals that the prosecutrix was having fancy
for accused Prashant and had decided to spend time with him on
14.6.2012. She made a plan with her friend Manisha PW11 to
watch a movie on 14.6.2012 only to find an excuse to leave the
house on that day and she had no intention to watch the movie at
all. She left in the company of accused Prashant in his car from
Vasant Vihar and had consumed liquor with him, upon which she
became highly intoxicated. Accused Prashant got scared and did
not know what to do. He called his friend accused Milind and SC No.63/13. Page 77 of 82 requested his help. Accused Milind joined accused Prashant and
prsoeucutrix at about 6 p.m. near Rajouri Garden Petrol Pump and
ultimately, the prosecutrix was dropped safely at Vasant Vihar
when her condition had become better. 93. It is undoubtedly evident from the assessment of the
evidence on record that a false complaint of abduction, rape and
anal intercourse has been lodged by the prosecutrix against the
two accused at the instance of her parents, who were enraged,
probably for the reason that their daughter had consumed liquor in
the company of accused Prashant and hence wanted to teach him
a lesson. A totally false story of abduction, rape and anal
intercourse has been concocted, which could not stand during the
trial and was falsified by witnesses of prosecution itself. 94. It would be very pertinent to note her that the conduct
of the investigating officer PW18 has not been fair and reasonable
towards the accused. It appears that initially she started
conducting investigation fairly and impartially but when the father
of the prosecutrix complained against her to the senior officers,
she thought it better to dance to his tunes. She has admitted in
her cross examination that the complaint dated 02.7.2012
Ex.PW18/D3 from the mother of accused Milind had been received
in the police station and was marked to her for inquiry. It may be
noted that in the said complaint, Milind's mother Nisha Kapoor had
set out in detail the movements of Milind on 14.6.2012 from
morning till evening and had also mentioned her mobile phone
number as well as mobile phone number of Milind, his friends
Dhruv Tyagi and Karan Bhatia. She had urged the police officials to SC No.63/13. Page 78 of 82 obtain call detail records of these mobile numbers to verify their
tower positions on 14.6.2012. PW18 has fairly admitted that she
did not conduct verification regarding movements of accused
Milind and the prosecutrix as mentioned in the said complaint
Ex.PW18/D3. She admitted not having visited the Hotel Taj, Khan
Market, during the inquiries on the said complaint to verify
whether accused Milind was present there on 14.6.2012 and if so,
from what time upto what time. She has admitted that she had
prepared reports Ex.PW18/D1 and Ex.PW18/D2 regarding
movements of prosecutrix and accused Milind on 14.6.2012 on the
analysis of call detail records of their mobile phones and had
submitted the same to the Sessions Court during hearing of bail
application of the two accused. It is a matter of great regret that
she totally ignored the contentions raised in complaint
Ex.PW18/D3 and her own conclusions reached on perusal of the
call detail records of prosecutrix and accused Milind, as mentioned
in report Ex.PW18/D1 and Ex.PW18/D2. Had these three
documents been considered by the IO at the time of preparing the
final report in this case, the conclusion reached by her would have
been otherwise and the two accused, who are in the prime of their
youth and in earlier 20's, may have been saved from the rigors of
facing a criminal trial. Not only this, the IO seems to have been
deliberately withheld the written statement Ex.PW11/A submitted
to her by PW11 on 07.7.2012. She ignored this statement also and
did not mention anything about the same either in her Case Diary
or in the Charge Sheet. She did not annex the said statement
alongwith Charge Sheet. She had to file the same before this court
during the trial of the case pursuant to the directions issued by
this court. It is thus apparent that the investigation of this case has SC No.63/13. Page 79 of 82 been totally partial with the only thing in the mind of the IO that
the evidence collected by her which favours the accused and
points towards their innocence should not reach the court. The
conduct of the IO is highly depricable and deplorable. She has
betrayed the trust reposed by public upon a police official 95. The object of investigation is to ascertain the
credibility and truthfulness of the allegations contained in the FIR.
The role and duty of an investigating officer is to proceed to the
spot of crime to gather evidence, record the statements of the
witnesses, to take opinion of medical as well as forensic experts
and to form an opinion whether or not the alleged offence has
been committed and if so, by whom. The investigating officer may
then file either a report u/s.169 Cr.PC, if he does not find any
evidence inculpating the accused or a report u/s.173 Cr.PC, if he
collects prosecutable evidence against the accused which prima
facie points towards the guilt. There is no rule of law requiring an
investigating officer to withhold or conceal the evidence collected
by him during the investigation of the case, which favours the
accused and establishes his innocence. The IO is duty bound to
present every piece of evidence collected by him during
investigation, before the court either in the form of report u/s.169 Cr.PC or report u/s.173 Cr.PC. The IO is duty bound to act
impartially in collecting all the relevant evidence during the
investigation of a case and to present the same before the court,
whether favouring accused or the prosecution. 96. The aim of the police officer investigating a case
should be to collect evidence and not to create it. It is his sacred SC No.63/13. Page 80 of 82 duty to find out the truth by an honest and straightforward
investigation and not to play in the hands of the persons who have
any vested interest in the case. Concoction or fabrication of
evidence, even in case of a known criminal, is a crime. 97. In western countries like United Kingdom etc., police
officers are taught that if a piece of evidence favourable to the
accused comes to light during the investigation, it must as a
matter of course be communicated to the defence. It appears that
in India, no such guidelines are given to the police officers. Section
173 Cr.PC requires a police officer to supply only those documents
and statements to the accused, upon which the State relies to
prosecute him. But that does not authorise or empower an
investigating officer to ignore any evidence, which favours the
accused, even during the course of investigation itself and file a
report u/s.173 Cr.PC after disregarding such evidence. 98. Time has come, in the opinion of this court, that
certain necessary guidelines be framed making it mandatory for
the investigating officers to bring to the notice of the accused at
the stage of investigation itself, all the evidence (documentary or
oral) which favours the accused. 99. Be that as it may, the investigation in the instant case
has been designedly defective and partial. The IO has committed
breach of professional standards by ignoring, disregarding and
withholding material evidence which pointed to the innocence of
the accused. There have been intentional acts of commission and
omission on her part prejudicial to the interests of the accused. 100. This court regrets to note that the two accused herein,
young boys in their early twenties had to face trial for the crime
which they had not committed at all. They had to suffer
incarceration in jail for more than one year and had to undergo
rigors of a criminal trial for about two years. Their educational as
well as professional career has been jeopardized apart from the
humiliation and ridicule faced by them on being accused in a rape
case. The mental agony, distress and pain suffered by them during
all these years is not difficult to fathom. 101. Both the accused are hereby acquitted. Their bail
bonds are released and sureties discharged. They shall be at
liberty to claim compensation from the prosecutrix and her family
for being falsely implicated in this case, if so advised. 102. A copy of this judgment be sent to the Commissioner
of Police, Delhi, with the hope that the concerns raised in the
judgment would be adequately addressed and a message is sent
down the line to all the investigating officers to inform the accused
about the evidence gathered during the course of investigation
which favours them and not to withhold or conceal any such
evidence from the court so that the accused would get justice at
the earliest possible opportunity.