FACTUAL MATRIX 1. Briefly stated, the case of the prosecution against the accused is that on
 17.06.2015 at about 07:40 PM, in front of counter no. 150, ISBT, Anand
 Vihar, Delhi, the accused was driving the vehicle no. UA 07S 9056 in a
 rash and negligent manner and while driving so, the accused hit one lady,
 whose name and identity could not be traced out, thereby causing her death.
 As such, it is alleged that the accused committed the offence under Sections
 279 / 304A Indian Penal Code (hereinafter, " IPC ") for which FIR No.
 622/2015 was registered at Police Station Madhu Vihar, Delhi. INVESTIGATION AND APPEARANCE OF ACCUSED 2. After registration of FIR, the investigating officer (hereinafter 'IO')
 conducted investigation and on culmination of the investigation,
 chargesheet against the accused namely Surender Kumar for the alleged
 commission of offences u/s 279 / 304A IPC was filed. Ld. Predecessor of
 this Court took cognizance of the offence vide order dated 06.12.2016.
 After taking cognizance of the offence, accused appeared in Court and he
 was supplied the copy of documents relied upon in the charge sheet in terms
 of section 207 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter,
 " CrPC "). 3. Since prima facie offence against the present accused Surender Kumar was
 made out, Ld. Predecessor of this Court framed charge against accused
 Surender Kumar for the offence u/s 279 / 304A IPC vide order dated
 10.09.2018, to which accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Udbhav Digitally
 by Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 signed

 Kumar Date: Thereafter, the witness got the vehicle released on superdari vide
 superdarinama Ex. PW1/C bearing his signature at point A. Witness
 admitted that the number of offending vehicle was UA 07S 9056. 5.1. On his cross-examination by Ld. Counsel for accused, witness admitted that
 duty slip Ex. PW1/B is dated 16.06.2015 and not 17.06.2015, that the notice
 under Section 133 MV Act does not reveal any vehicle number, that the
 witness cannot tell who has signed the duty slip Ex. PW1/B, that the witness
 had not witnessed the accident with his own eyes, that duty slip Ex. PW1/B
 does not reveal the complete number of the bus. Witness denied the
 suggestion that he was deposing falsely. 6. SI Sanjeev Kumar (PW-2) in his examination-in-chief deposed that on
 17.06.2015, a call was received by the Incharge through the control room.
 The witness, along with his team consisting of SI Narender, Ct. Ashok and
 one driver (name not remembered), visited the spot i.e., Platform No. 150,
 ISBT, Anand Vihar, Delhi. One female dead body was lying near the said
 platform. The face of the said dead body was brutally crushed. Upon the
 directions of the IO, the witness clicked photographs of the said dead body.
 The offending bus/vehicle was standing nearby Police Chowki, Anand
 Vihar, where the witness also clicked photographs of the vehicle. The 15
 photographs of the alleged vehicle and dead body were already on the
 judicial file. The same were shown to the witness, who correctly identified
 the offending vehicle as well as the photos of the deceased female. The
 same were exhibited as Ex. PW2/A (colly, 15 photos). On the day of
 deposition, the witness produced the negatives of the said photographs,
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 FIR No. 622/2015 Kumar
 State vs. Surender Kumar Date : Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 FIR No. 622/2015 State vs. Surender KumarKumar Date : Page no. 7 of 21
 Jain 2025.08.20
 17:29:41
 +0530
 At that time, he was present at Anand Vihar ISBT with effect from 8 PM to
 8 AM. He stated that he alone left for the spot immediately after receiving
 the message. He deposed that a number of passengers were present at the
 spot as it was ISBT. He further stated that he did not notice any family
 member of the injured at the spot. He deposed that about 08.30 PM; he
 picked up the injured and left for LBS Hospital. He remained in LBS
 Hospital for about one hour. No family members of the injured came to the
 hospital during the time he stayed there. He deposed that the IO recorded
 his statement in LBS Hospital itself. He denied the suggestion that he did
 not shift the injured to LBS Hospital, nor participated in the investigation
 of the present case, or that the IO recorded his statement in the PS, or that
 he was deposing falsely. 9. HC Ashok (PW-5) in his examination-in-chief deposed that on
 24.06.2015, he was posted at CMVAI Cell, East District as a Constable. On
 that day, he along with IO ASI Ved Prakash went to the mortuary of LBS
 Hospital, where the postmortem of an unknown woman aged about 38 years
 was conducted by the IO. After the postmortem, the doctors handed over a
 sealed glass jar containing the sternum bone and the sample seal of
 LBHS/DFMT to the IO, and the same was seized by the IO vide seizure
 memo, Ex. PW5/A, bearing the signature of the witness at point A.
 Thereafter, he submitted the said glass jar and seal in PS Madhu Vihar.
 Subsequently, cremation of the dead body of the said unknown female was
 conducted by the IO in the Cremation Ground, Gazipur. The IO also
 received the receipt of woods at the said cremation ground vide receipt no.
 41938 dated 24.06.2015, which was exhibited as Ex. PW5/B. The IO
 recorded his statement in this regard. Digitally signed
 Udbhav by Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 Kumar Date: UA 07S 9056 had hit one lady while reversing the bus in a rash and
 negligent manner. The eye witness Shishupal also produced the driver,
 namely Surender, of the said bus before the IO. The IO interrogated the
 driver Surender vide interrogation document Ex. PW6/A, bearing his
 signature at point A. IO arrested accused Surender vide arrest memo and
 personal search memo, Ex.PW6/B and Ex.PW6/C respectively, both
 bearing his signature at point A. Thereafter, accused Surender was released
 on bail as the offence was bailable. The IO also seized the driving licence
 of the accused vide memo Ex. PW6/D bearing the signature of PW6 at point
 A. The IO further seized the documents relating to the said vehicle, namely
 RC, fitness certificate, and insurance papers, vide memo Ex. PW6/E
 bearing the signature of PW6 at point A. The IO also seized the duty slip of
 accused Surender, which was already Ex. PW1/B. Thereafter, the IO
 recorded statements of the witnesses, and the case property was deposited
 by ASI Kanwar Pal in the malkhana of PS Madhu Vihar. His own statement
 was also recorded by the IO. Witness identified accused Surender, who was
 Digitally
 signed by
 FIR No. 622/2015 State vs. Surender Kumar Udbhav Udbhav Page no. 9 of 21
 Kumar Jain
 Kumar Date: present in the Court. When 15 photographs of the offending bus
 (Ex.PW2/A) attached in the judicial file were shown to the witness, witness
 correctly identified them. 10.1. On his cross-examination by Ld. Counsel for accused, witness stated that
 he along with IO/ASI Ved Prakash went to the spot, but he did not
 remember the time when they reached there. He also did not remember how
 much time they remained at the spot. He did not know whether Shishupal
 produced the accused to the IO, or whether the IO interrogated the accused.
 His statement was recorded on the same day at the spot. Witness denied the
 suggestion that the IO did not follow the guidelines of the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court at the time of arresting the accused. He further stated that he did not
 remember whether the IO seized the case property or not, and that the
 photographs of the offending vehicle were not captured in his presence. He
 admitted that the spot was a crowded area. He denied the suggestion that
 the accused was arrested in his presence or that the personal search memo
 was conducted in his presence. He further denied the suggestion that he was
 deposing falsely. 11. Sh. Shishu Pal Sharma (PW-7) in his examination-in-chief deposed that
 on 17.06.2015, he was working as Manager at a food stall situated at
 Counter No. 150, Anand Vihar ISBT. At about 07:45 PM, while he was
 sitting at his shop, one bus of Ranikhet Depot, Uttarakhand Parivahan
 Nigam was present there. The driver, while parking the bus at the counter
 and reversing it in a rash and negligent manner, hit one lady who was
 standing at the back of the bus, due to which she died on the spot.
 Thereafter, witness called the police. Police came to the spot and arrested
 the accused person at his instance vide arrest memo already exhibited as
 Ex. PW6/D, bearing his signature at point B. When 15 photographs of the
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 FIR No. 622/2015 State vs. Surender KumarKumar Kumar Jain Page no. 10 of 21
 Date: Witness answered that the statement given in cross-examination was
 correct. 12. HC Pradeep (PW-8) in his examination-in-chief deposed that on
 17.06.2015 he was posted at PS Madhu Vihar as a constable. On that day,
 he was on checking duty at ISBT Chowki, Anand Vihar. At around 07:40
 PM, ASI Kanwar Pal received information about an accident at counter no.
 150, ISBT Anand Vihar. Consequently, he along with ASI Kanwar Pal went
 there and saw a lady lying on the road in an unconscious condition, who,
 upon seeing, appeared to be dead. Thereafter, they met with the eye witness
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 FIR No. 622/2015 State vs. Surender Kumar
 Kumar Date : Page no. 12 of 21
 Jain 2025.08.20
 17:30:08
 +0530
 Shishu Pal Sharma S/o Om Prakash and also found that a person had been
 caught by public persons, namely Surender S/o Govind Kumar. The said
 person, Surender, was identified as the driver of bus bearing no. UA-07S-
 9056. According to the eye witness, Surender had hit the said lady.
 Thereafter, ASI Kanwar Pal sent the said lady to LBS Hospital and recorded
 a Tehrir, which was handed over to PW-8 for registration of FIR. In the
 meantime, the IO seized the said bus vide seizure memo, Ex. PW-7/A,
 bearing the signature of PW-8 at point B. ASI Ved Prakash also recorded
 his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. The accused was present in court
 and was correctly identified by the witness. 12.1. On his cross-examination by Ld. Counsel for accused, witness stated that
 he did not remember the exact time when he was posted at PS Madhu Vihar;
 however, he was relieved from PS Madhu Vihar in the year 2017. He
 admitted that the spot was a crowded place and that buses did not move fast
 inside ISBT. He further deposed that he did not remember whether ASI
 Kanwar Pal had called him on the day of the incident. He admitted that his
 checking point was about 100-150 meters away from the spot. Prior to their
 reaching the spot, other police officials were also present. He did not
 remember how many police officials were present at that time; however, he
 along with ASI Kanwar Pal were present at the spot. He deposed that ASI
 Kanwar Pal recorded the statement of Shishu Pal in his presence. He could
 not say whether his statement was recorded first or that of Shishu Pal, nor
 could he say at what time Shishu Pal's statement was recorded. He further
 deposed that he did not remember how much time Shishu Pal remained at
 the spot. He admitted that he signed his own statement which was recorded
 by the IO. He did not remember the time when he went to the PS for
 registration of FIR, nor the time he remained at the PS. He further deposed
 that the distance between PS Madhu Vihar and the spot was about 1.5 to 2
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav Kumar
 FIR No. 622/2015 State vs. Surender Kumar Jain Page no. 13 of 21
 Kumar Date: 13. Retd. SI Kanwar Pal (PW-9) in his examination-in-chief deposed that on
 17.06.2015, PW9 was posted at PS Madhu Vihar as ASI. On that day, he
 was on emergency duty at Police Post, Anand Vihar from 08.00 a.m. to
 08.00 p.m. At around 07.40 p.m., he received information about an accident
 at counter no.150, ISBT, Anand Vihar. Pursuant thereto, he along with Ct.
 Pradeep went to the spot, where they saw a lady lying on the road in an
 unconscious condition. On seeing her, it appeared that she might be dead.
 Thereafter, PW9 met with the eye-witness, namely Shishu Pal Sharma S/o
 Om Prakash, at the counter, and also found that a person had been
 apprehended by members of the public, namely Surender S/o Govind
 Kumar. The said person, Surender, was identified as the driver of bus
 bearing registration no. UA07S9056. According to the eye-witness,
 Digitally
 signed by
 FIR No. 622/2015 State vs. Surender KumarUdbhav Udbhav Page no. 14 of 21
 Kumar Jain
 Kumar Date: Surender had hit the said lady. Witness thereafter sent the said lady to LBS
 Hospital and recorded a Tehrir, which was exhibited as Ex. PW9/A bearing
 his signatures at points A and B respectively, on the statement of eye-
 witness Shishu Pal Sharma, who was present at counter no.150. The said
 Tehrir was handed over to Ct. Pradeep for registration of FIR. Accordingly,
 Ct. Pradeep went to the police station and, after some time, returned to the
 spot along with a copy of FIR and the original rukka, which he handed over
 to the witness. In the meantime, witness seized the said bus vide seizure
 memo already exhibited as Ex.PW7/A bearing his signature at point C. He
 also prepared the site plan at the instance of the eye-witness, which was
 exhibited as Ex.PW9/B bearing his signature at point A. Subsequently, ASI
 Ved Prakash came to the spot and further investigated the present case, to
 whom the witness handed over all the documents. The accused, present in
 court, was correctly identified by the witness. 13.1. On his cross-examination by Ld. Counsel for accused, witness stated that
 he had received the information through mobile phone. The distance
 between the spot and the Police Post was about 80 meters. Shishu Pal
 produced the accused before him. He sent the said lady to LBS Hospital
 through an ambulance. He had called the ambulance to the spot, and the call
 was made about 15-20 minutes after reaching the spot. He remained at the
 spot for around one to one and a half hours. He prepared the rukka at the
 bus stop where the alleged accident had occurred. No one came to the spot
 or left from there until ASI Ved Prakash arrived. He did not conduct any
 investigation except preparation of rukka and seizure memo. It was correct
 that the place of incident was a crowded area. He did not ask anything from
 anyone except the eye-witness, Shishu Pal. Witness denied the suggestion
 that Shishu Pal was not an eye-witness in the present case. Witness stated
 that he did not remember whether the IO recorded his statement under
 Digitally
 signed by
 FIR No. 622/2015 State vs. Surender Kumar Udbhav Udbhav
 Kumar Jain Page no. 15 of 21
 Kumar Date: 14. SI Ved Prakash (PW-10) in his examination-in-chief deposed that on
 17.06.2015, witness was posted as ASI at CMVAI Cell, East District. On
 that day, he received DD No.20 regarding an accident at ISBT, Anand
 Vihar. Upon receipt of the said DD, he along with Ct. Kailash Chand went
 to the spot. Upon reaching there, he met ASI Kanwarpal along with his
 staff. ASI Kanwarpal informed him about the incident and handed over all
 the documents relating to the case. He also informed him about one
 eyewitness, Shishupal, who had handed over the driver of bus bearing no.
 UK07S9056, namely Surender Kumar (accused present in court, correctly
 identified by the witness). Witness interrogated the accused vide memo
 already exhibited as Ex.PW6/A, bearing his signature at point B.
 Thereafter, he arrested the accused vide arrest memo already exhibited as
 Ex.PW6/B, bearing his signature at point C. He also conducted the personal
 search of the accused vide memo already exhibited as Ex.PW6/C, bearing
 his signature at point B. Since the offence was bailable, he released the
 accused on bail and bound him down vide pabandinama dated 19.10.2016,
 which was exhibited as Ex.PW10/A bearing his signature at point A. He
 also seized the driving licence of the accused vide memo already exhibited
 as Ex.PW6/D, bearing his signature at point B. He further seized the
 photocopies of documents i.e. RC and Fitness certificate vide memo already
 exhibited as Ex.PW6/E, bearing his signature at point B. He also seized the
 duty slip of accused Surender dated 16.06.2015, which was already
 exhibited as Ex.PW1/B. Witness also gave notice under Section 133 MV
 Act to the Assistant General Manager, Ranikhet Depot, on 23.06.2015. The
 Digitally
 signed by
 Udbhav Udbhav
 FIR No. 622/2015 State vs. Surender Kumar Kumar Kumar Jain Page no. 16 of 21
 Date: He denied the suggestion that he had not visited the mortuary, or that the
 accused had been falsely implicated. He denied the suggestion that he had
 not conducted a fair investigation of the case. He denied the suggestion that
 he was deposing falsely. Digitally signed
 Udbhav by Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 Kumar Date: 21. Now, if the whole evidence available on record is sift through then it is
 evident that the whole case of prosecution was dependent on the testimony
 of material witness/eyewitness PW-7 who saw the accused committing the
 alleged offence. Neither presence of accused can be confirmed on the spot
 nor there is anything on record to connect the accused with the commission
 of the offence. Further, all the other witnesses are subsequent to the alleged
 offence and none of them saw the alleged commission of offence. As such,
 even if all the other prosecution witness cited in the list of witnesses were
 to be examined, the case of the prosecution could not be proved. 22. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in S.L. Goswami (Dr) v. State of M.P. , (1972)
 3 SCC 22 held that the accused is entitled to benefit of doubt where the
 onus of proving the ingredients of the offence is not discharged by the
 prosecution. The same view was reiterated by the Hon'ble Apex Court
 recently in Nanjundappa & Anr. Vs. The State of Karnataka 2022 SCC
 OnLine SC 628. In the present case, as already noted above, the prosecution
 could not discharge the burden of proving the guilt of accused beyond
 reasonable doubt. Thus, accused Surender Kumar is entitled to benefit of
 doubt. 23. In view of the above discussion, the accused namely, Surender Kumar is
 hereby found not guilty. Accordingly, accused Surender Kumar is
 hereby acquitted of the offences under section 279 / 304A IPC. File be consigned to record room after due compliance. Announced in open court today i.e., 20.08.2025. Udbhav Digitally
 by Udbhav
 Kumar Jain
 signed

 Kumar Date: