Heard counsel for the parties. This second bail application has been filed by the
applicant, who has been arrested and is in Jail in connection
with Crime No.17/2014 registered with STF Police Station,
Bhopal for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of I.P.C. and also under Section 3
(D) 1 , 2 / 4 of the Madhya Pradesh Manyata Prapt Pariksha
Adhiniyam, 1937 - commonly known as VYAPAM
examination scam cases. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is
that of a beneficiary. The applicant appeared in Jail Guard
(Jail Prahari) Recruitment Examination 2012 conducted by
VYAPAM. He with the help of his brother Brijmohan Gaud,
who, in turn, contacted Shiv Kumar Yadav and both of them
acted as middleman to arrange for the impersonator to appear
for the applicant in the said examination. Thus, the offence
was committed by this applicant. The applicant was arrested on 16.9.2014. Charge-sheet
has been filed against the applicant on 9.12.2014. Besides, MCRC No. 466/2015 |2

said Brijmohan Gaud and Shiv Kumar Yadav have already
been arrested and are in Jail. Since the investigation against the applicant is
complete in all respects and presence of the applicant is not
required for custodial interrogation as is stated across the Bar
by the counsel for the State and that the link person between
the applicant and as also the impersonator having been
arrested and further that the applicant is not involved in any
other offence of similar type, the applicant deserves to be
released on bail by imposing strict conditions - as assurance
has been given by the applicant through counsel to extend
full cooperation to the Investigating Officer for further
investigation if and when required including against him
and/or will punctually appear before the Trial Court to ensure
early disposal of the trial. Taking over all view of the matter, therefore, the
applicant is ordered to be released on bail on following strict
conditions to be observed by him during the trial and till
further order:- This bail application is disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.