(PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE J.B.PARDIWALA) Page 1 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT 1. RULE returnable forthwith. Mr.Vinay Vishen and
Mr.Chintan Dave, the learned AGP waive service of notice of rule
for and on behalf of the State respondents. 2. Since the issues raised in both the writ-applications are
the same, those were heard analogously and are being disposed
of by this common judgment and order. 3. For the sake of convenience, the Special Civil Application
No.513 of 2020 is treated as the lead matter. By this
writ-application under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,
the writ-applicant has prayed for the following reliefs : 4. The facts giving rise to the present writ-application may be
summarised as under : 5. It is the case of the writ-applicant that his son, namely
Paresh Nathalal Chauhan, is a proprietor of a proprietary
concern running in the name of Lancer Enterprise. The
proprietary firm is situated at Vrundavan Estate, Ramol,
Ahmedabad. 6. According to the writ-applicant, his son had rented the
factory premises including the machines of the proprietary
concern to one Mr.Nipun Patel for the purpose of manufacturing
miscellaneous articles of plastics on job work basis. Few officers
from the office of the Commissioner of State Tax visited the
residential premises of the writ-applicant on 11 th October 2019
and inquired about the whereabouts of his son. It is alleged that
the officers harassed the family by their presence in the flat for
almost a period of one week. In view of the aforesaid, a Special
Civil Application No.18463 of 2019 came to be filed in this High
Court with the following prayers : C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

"(A) To issue a writ of mandamus and/or writ of
prohibition and/or any other appropriate writ, order or
direction, directing the respondents not to take any actions
against the petitioner being proprietor of the Lancer
Enterprise exercising powers under Section 69 read with Section 132 without following due process of law of
assessment and adjudication of alleged evasion of GST as
contemplated under Section 61 , Section 73 or under Section
74 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 and Gujarat Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 i.e. before
following provisions of Chapter XII of Central Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 and Gujarat Goods and Services Tax
Act, 2017 and Chapter VIII of Central Goods and Services
Tax Rules, 2017 and Gujarat Goods and Services Tax Rules,
2017 in connection with investigation initiated by the State
Tax, Unit-22, Ahmedabad i.e. by the respondents. (B) To issue a writ of mandamus and/or writ of
prohibition and/or any other appropriate writ, order or
direction, directing to quash and set-aside an order dated
23.06.2017 bearing No.GSL/ S.5(1) /B.1 passed by the
Commissioner of State Tax, Gujarat in exercise of powers
under sub-section (1) of Section 5 read with clause (91) of Section 2 of the GGST and the rules framed thereunder
assigning functions to the proper officers to be performed by
the higher officer under GGST at Annexure-A.

(C) Pending admission, final hearing and disposal of this
petition, to restrain the respondents from exercising powers
under Section 69 read with Section 132 of CGST or GGST Page 4 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

 without following due process of law of assessment and
 adjudication of alleged evasion of GST as contemplated
 under Section 61 , Section 73 or under Section 74 of the
 Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 and Gujarat
 Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 i.e. before following
 provisions of Chapter XII of Central Goods and Services Tax
 Act, 2017 and Gujarat Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 and Chapter VIII of Central Goods and Services Tax Rules,
 2017 and Gujarat Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017 in
 connection with investigation initiated by the State Tax,
 Unit-22, Ahmedabad on such terms and conditions which
 may be deemed fit and proper to this Hon'ble Court and in
 the interest of the petitioner. (D) Pending admission, final hearing and disposal of this
 petition, to direct the respondents to release the petitioner's
 family members from house arrest and/or to remove the
 officials of the respondents from the petitioner's residential
 premises being Flat No.104, Aryavrat Heights, Prernatirth
 Derasar Road, Satellite, Ahmedabad. (E) To pass any other and further orders in the interest of
 the petitioner and in the interest of justice on such terms
 and conditions as may be deemed fit and proper to this
 Hon'ble Court. (F) To provide for the costs of this petition." 7. In the aforesaid writ-application, a Coordinate Bench of
this Court passed the following order, dated 25 th October 2019 : petitioner has tendered an affidavit of Nathalal Maganlal
Chauhan, the father of the petitioner. The same is taken on
record. 2. The learned Assistant Government Pleader has
submitted a confidential report of the proceedings carried
out by the respondents at the premises of the petitioner
pursuant to the authorisation issued in favour of the second
respondent under sub-section (2) of section 67 of the Central
Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as
"the CGST Act "). 3. This court has perused the report in its entirety. A
perusal of the report reveals that the concerned officers
authorised to carry out the search at the residential
premises of the petitioner had stayed there from 11.10.2019
to 18.10.2019. A perusal of the record of the proceedings of
the case reveals that on 11.10.2019 at 2:15, it has been
recorded that after searching of the rooms in the premises,
the records of the accounts were brought to the main room
and gathered there which included the bank passbooks of
the family members as well as cheque books and that
verification thereof is continuing. The proceedings thereafter
do not reveal any further search carried out at the premises
but reveal that the officers had stayed at the premises and
had examined the phone calls that were received by the
family members and had recorded their phone calls. They
had also recorded statements of the family members of the Page 6 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

petitioner on 11.10.2019. The record further reveals that the
officers who had arrived on the previous day as well as the
panchas were relieved by new set of officers and panchas
and this cycle continued till 18.10.2019. It appears that
thereafter they have been questioning the family members of
the petitioner on a day to day basis till 18.10.2019. 4. Section 67 of the CGST Act, reads thus:- section (2) or any other documents, books or things Page 8 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

 produced by a taxable person or any other person,
 which have not been relied upon for the issue of notice
 under this Act or the rules made thereunder, shall be
 returned to such person within a period not exceeding
 thirty days of the issue of the said notice. (4) The officer authorised under sub-section (2) shall
 have the power to seal or break open the door of any
 premises or to break open any almirah, electronic
 devices, box, receptacle in which any goods, accounts,
 registers or documents of the person are suspected to
 be concealed, where access to such premises, almirah,
 electronic devices, box or receptacle is denied. (5) The person from whose custody any documents are
 seized under sub-section (2) shall be entitled to make
 copies thereof or take extracts therefrom in the
 presence of an authorised officer at such place and
 time as such officer may indicate in this behalf except
 where making such copies or taking such extracts
 may, in the opinion of the proper officer, prejudicially
 affect the investigation. (6) The goods so seized under sub-section (2) shall be
 released, on a provisional basis, upon execution of a
 bond and furnishing of a security, in such manner and
 of such quantum, respectively, as may be prescribed
 or on payment of applicable tax, interest and penalty
 payable, as the case may be. C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

 (7) Where any goods are seized under sub-section (2)
 and no notice in respect thereof is given within six
 months of the seizure of the goods, the goods shall be
 returned to the person from whose possession they
 were seized: section (8), have been seized by a proper officer, or
 any officer authorised by him under sub-section (2), he
 shall prepare an inventory of such goods in such
 manner as may be prescribed. (10) The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 1973, relating to search and seizure, shall, so far as
 may be, apply to search and seizure under this section Page 10 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

 subject to the modification that sub-section (5) of section 165 of the said Code shall have effect as if for
 the word "Magistrate", wherever it occurs, the word
 "Commissioner" were substituted. (11) Where the proper officer has reasons to believe
 that any person has evaded or is attempting to evade
 the payment of any tax, he may, for reasons to be
 recorded in writing, seize the accounts, registers or
 documents of such person produced before him and
 shall grant a receipt for the same, and shall retain the
 same for so long as may be necessary in connection
 with any proceedings under this Act or the rules made
 thereunder for prosecution. (12) The Commissioner or an officer authorised by him
 may cause purchase of any goods or services or both
 by any person authorised by him from the business
 premises of any taxable person, to check the issue of
 tax invoices or bills of supply by such taxable person,
 and on return of goods so purchased by such officer,
 such taxable person or any person in charge of the
 business premises shall refund the amount so paid
 towards the goods after cancelling any tax invoice or
 bill of supply issued earlier. " 5. Thus, sub-section (2) of section 67 of the CGST Act
empowers the authorised officer to search and seize goods,
documents or books or things. Sub-section (4) of section 67 empowers the officer authorised under sub-section (2) to Page 11 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

seal or break open door of any premises or to break open
any almirah, electronic devices, box, receptacle in which any
goods, accounts, registers or documents of the person are
suspected to be concealed, where access to such premises,
almirah, electronic devices, box or receptacle is denied.
Thus, the officers concerned were authorised to seize such
books, goods, documents, or things which were found at the
premises. Sub-section (2) of section 67 does not empower
the officer concerned to record statements of family
members through force or coercion or to record their
conversations in their mobile phones. In exercise of powers
under sub-section (2) of section 67 of the CGST Act, it is not
permissible for the authorised officer to use coercive
measures against family members to find out the
whereabouts of the taxable person. It is shocking to see that
in a premises where there are three ladies, namely, the
petitioner's mother, wife and young daughter, male officers
together with a CRPF Officer have stayed throughout day
and night despite the fact that the goods, articles and things
were already seized on 11.10.2019. The entire exercise
carried out by the concerned officers from 12.10.2019 to
18.10.2019 was totally without any authority of law and in
flagrant disregard of the provisions of the Act and the rules
and in total abuse of the powers vested in them under the
Act. The manner in which the officers have conducted
themselves by overreaching the process of law and acting
beyond the powers vested in them under sub-section (2) of section 67 of the CGST Act needs to be deprecated in the
strictest terms. Therefore, a proper inquiry needs to be made
in respect of the action of the respondent officers of staying Page 12 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

 day and night at the premises of the petitioner without any
 authority of law. 6. In the aforesaid premises, the first respondent
 Commissioner of State Tax, Ahmedabad shall carry out a
 proper inquiry in the matter and submit a report before this
 court on or before 13th November, 2019. 7. Stand over to 13th November, 2019. 8. Registry to forthwith forward a copy of this order to
 the Commissioner of State Tax as well as Chief Secretary of
 the State to look into the matter and do the needful to
 ensure that such incidents are not repeated. " Mr.Pandya, in support of his submissions, has placed reliance
on the following case-law : Application No.13132 of 2019, decided on 28 th
 August 2019)

 (2) Deep Suresh Gadhecha v. State of Gujarat and others
 (Special Civil Application No.10436 of 2019, decided
 on 16th December 2019) 15. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr.Pandya prays
that there being merit in his writ-application, the same be
allowed and the impugned Notification be quashed. 16. On the other hand, this writ-application has been
vehemently opposed by Mr.Kamal B.Trivedi, the learned
Advocate General, appearing for the State respondents.
Mr.Trivedi would submit that the challenge to the legality and
validity of the impugned Notification is without any basis and
devoid of any merit. Mr.Trivedi would submit that Section 5(3) of
the GGST Act, 2017, confers specific power upon the
Commissioner to delegate his powers to any other officer who is
subordinate to him. According to Mr.Trivedi, there is no
challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 5(3) of the Act,
2017. Once the source of power is traced, then it is open for the
Commissioner to delegate his powers to any other officer. 17. Mr.Trivedi would submit that there are similar provisions
under the Customs Act, 1962 , the Central Excise Act, 1944 , and
the Income Tax Act as amended by the Finance (No.2) Act, 2019 ,
as well. Mr.Trivedi would submit that if the Legislature in its
wisdom thought fit to confer power upon a particular authority,
then ordinarily it is that authority itself who has to exercise such Page 16 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

power. In other words, it is essential that the delegated power
should be exercised by the authority upon whom it is conferred
and by no one else. However, according to Mr.Trivedi, in the
present administrative setup, such principle cannot be carried to
an extreme. According to Mr.Trivedi, there is only one
Commissioner of State Tax and it is virtually impossible for one
person to singlehandedly discharge all the duties and functions
under the Act. 18. Mr.Trivedi further pointed out that prosecution has also
been instituted against the son of the writ-applicant for the
offence punishable under Section 174 of the Indian Penal Code
read with Section 70(1) of the GGST Act, 2017, and the CGST
Act, 2017 . The Criminal Case No.104117 of 2019 is pending as
on date in the court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate, Ahmedabad. 19. Mr.Trivedi further seeks to rely on the following averments
made in the affidavit-in-reply filed on behalf of the respondents : Therefore, the requirement of reason to believe has been
fulfilled before exercising the powers of arrest as conferred
under section 69 of the GGST Act. 10. It is further submitted before this Hon'ble Court that
even during the earlier tax regime, as per section 45 of the
Gujarat Value Added Tax Act, 2003 the Commissioner was
empowered to initiate the proceedings of attachment of bank
account of the dealer in order to protect the interest of
Government revenue. The said powers were delegated by
the Commissioner under section 16 of the Gujarat Value
Added Tax Act, 2003. 11. In addition to the above, even under other similar
direct/indirect tax legislations referred hereunder, it is
permissible to the concerned Commissioner to delegate its
powers, including the powers relating to search, detention
and seizure to any other officer subordinate to him. This
position has been in vogue right from the inception of the
said legislations and that, therefore, similar delegation
under the provisions of GGST Act by the Commissioner in
favour of his subordinate, in relatively at a lower rank, Page 21 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

 would not become bad in law, merely because what is been
 delegated is likely to entail drastic consequences: 12. Now, as far as the contention of the Petitioner with
 regard to the arrest memorandum dated 31.12.2019 not
 having Document Identification Number is concerned, it is
 submitted that the said contention is also not tenable under
 law, inasmuch as, till date, the State of Gujarat has not
 issued any notification under the GGST Act making it
 mandatory for generation and quoting of Document
 Identification Number on any of its document. In absence of
 such notification, the arrest memorandum issued under the
 GGST Act, without having Document Identification Number,
 could not be said to be invalid or in contravention to any of
 the notifications issued under the GGST Act." 20. Mr.Trivedi, in support of his aforesaid submissions, has
placed reliance on the following decisions : ANALYSIS : 21. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties
and having gone through the materials on record, the only
question that falls for our consideration is, whether the
impugned Notification is liable to be quashed and set-aside. 22. Before adverting to the rival submissions canvassed on
either side, we must look into few relevant provisions of the law. 23. Section 2(24) of the GGST Act, 2017, defines the term
'Commissioner'. It reads thus : 24. Section 3 is with regard to the officers under the GGST Act,
2017. Section 3 reads thus : 25. Section 5 of the Act, 2017, is with regard to the officers. Section 5 reads thus : 26. Section 69 is with regard to the power to arrest. Section 69 reads thus : 27. Section 167 is with regard to the delegation of powers. It
reads thus : 28. We may also look into the Circular : 49 (Flyer No.) dated 1 st
January 2018. The Circular reads thus : Inspection can also be done of the conveyance. carrying a
consignment of value exceeding specified limit. The person
in charge of the conveyance has to produce
documents/devices for verification and allow inspection.
Inspection during transit can be done even without
authorisation of Joint Commissioner. (ii) Inspection in movement Page 28 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT (a) Any consignment, value of which is exceeding
 Rs.50,000/-, may be stopped at any place for
 verification of the documents/devices prescribed for
 movement of such consignments. (b) If on verification of the consignment, during transit,
 it is found that the goods were removed without
 prescribed document or the same are being supplied in
 contravention of any provisions of the Act, then the
 same can be detained or seized and may be subjected
 to penalties as prescribed. (c) To ensure transparency and minimise hardships to
 the trade the law provides that if during verification, in
 transit, a consignment is held up beyond 30 minutes
 the transporter can feed details on the portal. This will
 ensure accountability and transparency for all such
 verifications. Moreover, for verification during
 movement of consignment will also be done through
 Digital Interface and therefore the physical
 intervention will be minimum and as has already been
 mentioned that in case of a delay beyond 30 minutes
 the transporter can feed the details on the portal. (iii) Search & Seizure

The provisions of search and seizure also provides enough
safeguards and the GST Law stipulates that search of any
place of business etc. can be carried out only under Page 29 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

authorisation from an officer of the rank of Joint
Commissioner and if he has a reason to believe that the
person concerned has done at least one of the following :- Besides this, the GST Law also stipulates that arrests can Page 31 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

be made only in those cases where the person is involved in
offences specified for the purposes of arrest and the tax
amount involved in such offence is more than the specified
limit. The salient points at these provisions are :- 29. We shall now look into the impugned Notification. The
impugned Notification reads thus : 30. The delegation is the act of making or commissioning a
delegate. It generally means parting of powers by the person
who grants the delegation and conferring of an authority to do
things which otherwise that person would have to do himself.
Delegation is defined in the Black's Law Dictionary as "the act of
entrusting another with the authority by empowering another
to act as an agent or representative". In P.Ramanatha Aiyar's,
The Law Lexicon, "delegation is the act of making or
commissioning a delegate. Delegation generally means parting of Page 33 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

powers by the person who grants the delegation, but it also
means conferring of an authority to do things which otherwise
that person would have to do himself". Justice Mathew in Gwalior Rayon Silk Manufacturing (Wvg.) Co. Ltd. v. The
Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax and Others [1974
(4) SCC 98], has succinctly discussed the concept of delegation.
Paragraph 37 reads as follows: 31. As a general rule, whatever a person has the power to do
himself, he may do by means of an agent. This broad rule is
limited by the operation of the principle that a delegated
authority cannot be re-delegated, delegatus non-potest delegare. a presumption that he is required to do the act himself and
cannot re-delegate his authority. As a general rule, "if
the statute directs that certain acts shall be done in a
specified manner or by certain persons, their performance in
any other manner than that specified or by any other person
than one of those named is impliedly prohibited. Normally, a
discretion entrusted by the Parliament to an administrative
organ must be exercised by that organ itself. At the same time, it
is settled position of law that the maxim "delegatus non-potest
delegare" must not be pushed too far. The maxim does not
embody a rule of law. It indicates a rule of construction of a
statute or other instrument conferring an authority. Prima
facie, a discretion conferred by a statute on any
authority is intended to be exercised by that authority and by
no other. However, the intention may be negatived by any
contrary indications in the language, scope or object of the
statute. The construction that would best achieve the purpose
and object of the statute should be adopted. 32. The Supreme Court, in the case of Sahni Silk Mills (P) Ltd.
and another v. Employees' State Insurance Corporation , reported
in (1994)5 SCC 346, considered the question, whether the power
under Section 85B of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948,
could have been exercised by the Regional Directors of the
Corporation. The argument before the Supreme Court was that
the power could have been exercised either by the Corporation or
by the Director General of the said Corporation. The Supreme
Court noticed that the power of the Corporation to recover the
damages under Section 85B had not been questioned. The Page 35 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

controversy was, whether such power could have been delegated
under Section 94A to the Regional Directors. The Supreme
Court, while dismissing the SLPs, observed as under : 7. Again in Mangulal Chunilal v. Manilal Maganlal , AIR
1968 SC 822 (1968) 2 SCR 401 while considering the scope
of S.481(1)(a) of the Bombay Provincial Municipal
Corporation Act (59 of 1949) this Court said that
Commissioner of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation had
delegated his power and function under the aforesaid
section to a Municipal Officer to launch proceedings against
a person charged with offences under the Act or the Rules
and that officer to whom such functions were delegated
could not further delegate the same to another. 8. In Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th Edition, Volume I in
respect of sub-delegation of powers it has been said : 9. In the case of Harishankar Bagla v. State of Madhya
Pradesh , AIR 1954 SC 465 at 468, while examining the
scope of S.4 of the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers)
Act, 1946 it was said : In the aforesaid case, the sub-delegation was upheld
because S.4 itself enumerated the classes of persons to
whom the power could be delegated or sub-delegated by the
Central Government. 10. So far as the present S.94A is concerned, it says that
the Corporation subject to any regulation made by the
Corporation in that behalf, may direct that particular or any
of the powers and functions which may be exercised or
performed by the Corporation may, in relation to such
matters and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be
specified 'be also exercisable by any officer or authority Page 39 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

 subordinate to the Corporation.' S.94A does not specifically
 provide that any officer or authority subordinate to the
 Corporation to whom the power has been delegated by the
 Corporation may in his turn authorise any other officer to
 exercise or perform that power or function. But by the
 resolution dated 28-2-1976 the Corporation has not only
 delegated its power under S.85B(i) of the Act to the Director
 General, but has also empowered the Director General to
 authorise any other officer to exercise the said power.
 Unless it is held that S.94A of the Act enables the
 Corporation to delegate any of its powers and functions to
 any officer or authority subordinate to the Corporation, and
 he in his turn can sub-delegate the exercise of the said
 power to any other officer, the last part of the resolution
 dated 28-2-1976 cannot be held to be within the framework
 of S.94A. According to us, the Parliament while introducing
 S.94A in the Act, only conceived direct delegation by the
 Corporation to different officers or authorities, subordinate to
 the Corporation, and there is no scope for such delegate to
 sub-delegate that power, by authorising any other officer to
 exercise or perform the power so delegated." 33. In State of Bihar and others v. Anil Kumar and others ,
reported in (2017)14 SCC 304, the question that fell for the
consideration of the Supreme Court was with regard to the
validity of the investigative process under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities)
Act, 1989 . The Central Government has framed rules, namely,
the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of
Atrocities) Rules, 1995, in exercise of its powers under Section Page 40 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT 23. Rule 7 of the Rules mandates that the offence under the Act
shall be investigated by a police officer not below the rank of the
Deputy Superintendent of Police. The controversy arose because
of a notification issued by the State of Bihar. The notification
was issued by the State Government in exercise of its power
vested under Section 9 of the SC/ST Act. The notification issued
by the State of Bihar virtually diluted, or rather, did away with
Rule 7 of the SC/ST Rules (framed by the Central Government),
which required all the investigations in matters arising under the
Act to be carried by an officer not below the rank of the Deputy
Superintendent of Police. The notification issued by the State of
Bihar allowed the investigative process under the SC/ST Act to
be carried by the officers three rank below the rank of the
Deputy Superintendent of Police. The Supreme Court considered
the pivotal issue, whether the notification issued by the State of
Bihar in exercise of the powers vested in the State Government
under Section 9 of the SC/ST Act could be considered to have
been exercised in breach of or in excess of the powers delegated
to the State Government. 34. In the aforesaid context, the Supreme Court observed as
under : 35. In Sidhartha Sarawgi (supra), the question before the
Supreme Court was, whether there is any exception to the
principle that the 'delegate has no power to delegate', and
whether there is any distinction between the delegation of
legislative and non-legislative powers. In this regard, the
Supreme Court observed as under : 7. Practical necessities or exigencies of administration
require that the decision making authority who has been
conferred with statutory power, be able to delegate tasks
when the situation so requires. Thus, the maxim delegatus
non potest delegare, gives way in the performance of
administrative or ministerial tasks by subordinate
authorities in furtherance of the exercise of the delegated
power by an authority. 8. It would also be useful in this context to refer to the
decision of this Court in Barium Chemicals Limited and
another v. The Company Law Board and another5wherein it
is held at paragraph 36 as follows: 9. The Constitution confers power and imposes duty on
the Legislature to make laws and the said functions cannot
be delegated by the Legislature to the executive. The
Legislature is constitutionally required to keep in its own
hands the essential legislative functions which consist of the
determination of legislative policy and its formulation as a
binding rule of conduct. After the performance of the
essential legislative function by the Legislature and laying
the guiding policy, the Legislature may delegate to the
executive or administrative authority , any ancillary or
subordinate powers that are necessary for giving effect to
the policy and purposes of the enactment. In construing the
scope and extent of delegated power, the difference between
the essential and non-essential functions of the delegate
should also be borne in mind. While there cannot be
sub-delegation of any essential functions, in order to achieve
the intended object of the delegation, the non-essential
functions can be sub-delegated to be performed under the
authority and supervision of the delegate. 10. Sometimes, in the plenary legislation itself, the law
makers may provide for such sub-delegation. That is what
we see under Sections 21 and 34 of the Major Port Trusts
Act, 1963, which we shall be discussing in more detail at a
later part of this judgment. 11. Having analysed the legal position as above, we shall Page 50 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

now deal with the factual position in these cases. The
challenge is on the judgment dated 28.01.2013 of the
Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court. The issue
pertains to the determination of leases granted by the
Kolkata Port Trust to the petitioners. In the case of Universal
Autocrafts Private Limited, they were granted lease of a plot
of land for 30 years, on 19.8.1990. The lease deed was
executed by the Land Manager of the Kolkata Port Trust. On
5.2.2008, a letter was issued to the said petitioner to
demolish an alleged unauthorized construction and eject the
sub-tenants from the premises. The petitioner submitted its
reply on 2.5.2008. Not satisfied with the reply, on
30.01.2009, a notice terminating the lease was issued. The
ejectment notice was signed by the Land Manager. The
main contention is that the ejectment notice issued by the
Land Manager is illegal and without jurisdiction as he is not
competent to issue such ejectment notices. In the case of
Siddhartha Sarawgi, the leases were terminated during the
subsistence of the renewed period of 30 years, on the
ground of sub-letting without consent of the Kolkata Port
Trust. In his case also, the ejectment notices were issued by
the Land Manager and, hence, it is contended that there can
be no eviction on the basis of ejectment notice issued by a
person who is not competent to do so, the same being
without jurisdiction. The said ejectment notices were
challenged by both the petitioners before the Calcutta High
Court. In the case of Universal Autocrafts Private Limited,
the learned single Judge of Calcutta High Court allowed the
writ petition holding that the Land Manager was not
competent to issue the ejectment notice. In the writ petition Page 51 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

filed by Sidhartha Sarawgi, the learned single Judge of the
Calcutta High Court found a conflict between two earlier
decisions and referred the matter to a Division Bench. The
Division Bench vide common judgment dated 28.01.2003
held in favour of the Kolkata Port Trust in the case of both
the petitioners, which is challenged in these Special Leave
Petitions. 12. The Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 Ss. 21, 34 (hereinafter
referred to as, 'the Act') is an Act intended "to make
provision for the constitution of port authorities for certain
major ports in India and to vest the administration, control
and management of such ports in such authorities and for
matters connected therewith". Section 3 of the Act provides
for the constitution of a Board of Trustees (hereinafter
referred to as 'the Board'). Section 5 provides that: 13. Section 21 of the Act provides for delegation of powers
of the Board with the approval of the Central Government on
the Chairman and specification of exercise of such powers
conferred on the Chairman by the Deputy Chairman or any
other officer of the Board. The provision reads as follows: C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

 "21. Delegation of powers.- A Board may, with the
 approval of the Central Government, specify- (a) the powers and duties conferred or imposed upon
 the Board by or under this Act, which may also be
 exercised or performed by the Chairman; and (b) the powers and duties conferred or imposed on the
 Chairman by or under this Act, which may also be
 exercised or performed by the Deputy Chairman or
 any officer of the Board and the conditions and
 restrictions, if any, subject to which such powers and
 duties may be exercised and performed: 15. In exercise of the power under Section 21 on
delegation of powers, the Board of the Kolkata Port Trust Page 54 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

passed Resolution No. 82 dated 26.05.1988 delegating the
power to terminate any lease on the Chairman. The
Chairman was also authorized by the said Resolution to
issue ejectment notices. The text of the Resolution reads as
follows: 16. It is the contention of the petitioners that the power to
terminate the lease having been specifically conferred on the
Chairman, the steps now taken by the Land Manager by
issuing the impugned notices for eviction, are clearly without
jurisdiction and, hence, illegal and inoperative. On behalf of
the Board of Kolkata Port Trust, it is contended that the
decision to terminate the lease has actually been taken by
the Chairman and the issuance of notice of termination in
furtherance of the decision taken by the Chairman alone,
has been delegated to the Land Manager. Our attention is
also invited to Office Order No. 6480/3/0 dated
22.01.1990, which reads as under:- 17. The power that is delegated to the Chairman as per
 Resolution No. 82 is the power to terminate a lease. The
 decision to terminate has been taken by the Chairman only
 and there is no dispute in that regard. In implementation of
 the decision thus taken by the Chairman to terminate the
 leases, the Chairman has authorized the Land Manager to
 issue the ejectment notices. The issuance of such notices is
 a mere ministerial act for the implementation of a decision
 already taken by the Chairman as delegated by the Board.
 The Chairman having duly authorized the Land Manager in
 that regard, it cannot be said that the ejectment notice
 issued by the Land Manager is without jurisdiction. It is not
 a case of sub-delegation. It is merely a ministerial exercise
 of issuance of a notice in implementation of the decision, as
 per the specific authorization in that regard." 36. The reliance placed by the learned counsel on the decision
of this Court in the case of Deep Suresh Gadhecha (supra) is Page 56 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

thoroughly misconceived. We take notice of the fact that the
judgment rendered by the Coordinate Bench in Deep Suresh
Gadhecha (supra) was in a habeas corpus petition. This decision
in our opinion is in no manner helpful to the writ-applicant in
the present case. 37. In Bombay Municipal Corporation v. Dhondu Narayan
Chowdhary , reported in AIR 1965 SC 1486, the Supreme Court
considered the question, whether the delegation by the
Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, of his functions under Sections 105-B to 105-E of the Bombay Municipal Corporation
Act, 1888, to certain officers of the Corporation, was valid and
proper. The Supreme Court took into notice Section 68 of the
Act, 1888, and held as under : A reference to Ss.105B, 105C, 105D and 105E was
 inserted by the Maharashtra Act XIV of 1961. These
 sections are in Chapter 6A which was also newly
 added by the same Act. It is not necessary to refer to
 these sections, except a portion from S.105B which
 brings into prominence the action taken by the
 Corporation against the respondents: or....." ....the Commissioner may notwithstanding anything
 contained in any law for the time being in force, by
 notice..... order that that person as well as any other
 person who may be in occupation of the whole or any
 part of the premises. shall vacate them within one
 month of the date of the service of the notice." It will be noticed that S.68 was originally intended to
 cover very different matters because Chapter 6A could
 not have been in contemplation. When Chapter 6A
 was added and a reference to Ss.105B to 105E was
 included in S.68 , the wording of that section became
 applicable to the power exercisable under Ss.105B to
 105E even though that wording taken literally, is
 somewhat inapt to cover delegation of judicial power. 3. No question has been raised that any of the amendments
is ultra vires so the words of S.68 must be reasonably
construed. It goes without saying that judicial power cannot
ordinarily be delegated unless the law expressly or by clear
implication permits it. In the present case the amendment of S.68 by inclusion of delegation of the functions of the
Commissioner under Ss.105B to 105E does indicate the
intention that the judicial or quasi-judicial powers contained Page 59 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

in Chapter VIA were expressly intended to be delegated. To
the delegation as such there can be no objection. What is
objected to is the provision, both in the section as well as in
the order of delegation, that the exercise of the function is to
be under "the Commissioner's control" and "subject to his
revision." These words are really appropriate to a delegation
of administrative functions where the control may be deeper
then in judicial matters. In respect of judicial or
quasi-judicial functions these words cannot of course bear
the meaning which they bear in the delegation of
administrative functions. When the Commissioner stated
that his functions were delegated subject to his control and
revision it did not mean that he reserved to himself the right
to intervene to impose his own decision upon his delegate.
What those words meant was that the Commissioner could
control the exercise administratively as to the kinds of cases
in which the delegate could take action or the period or time
during which the power might be exercised and so on and
so forth. In other words. the administrative side of the
delegate's duties was to be the subject of control and
revision but not the essential power to decide whether to
take action or not in a particular case. This is also the
intention of S.68 as interpreted in the context of the several
delegated powers. This is apparent from the fact that the
order of the delegate amounts to an order by the
Commissioner and is appealable as such. If it were not so
the appeal to the Bombay City Civil Court would be
incompetent and the order could not be assailed. The order
of the delegate was the order of the Commissioner and the
control envisaged both in S.68 and the order of delegation Page 60 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

 was not control over the decision as such but over the
 administrative aspects of cased and their disposal. No.
 allegation has been made that the Commissioner intervened
 in the decision of the case or improperly influenced it. In
 these circumstances, the order impugned in the appeal
 cannot be sustained." 38. We may quote few extracts from Beatson, Matthews and
Elliott's Administrative Law : 39. We are of the view that the challenge to the legality and
validity of the impugned notification should fail. 40. As pointed out by the Supreme Court in the case of Sahni
Silk Mills (supra), the courts should normally be rigorous while
requiring the power to be exercised by the persons or the bodies
authorized by the statutes. As noted above, it is essential that
the delegated power should be exercised by the authority upon
whom it is conferred and by no one else. At the same time, in the
present administrative setup, the extreme judicial aversion to
delegation should not be carried to an extreme. There is only one
Commissioner of State Tax in the State of Gujarat, and having
regard to the enormous functions and duties to be discharged
under the new tax regime, he has been empowered to delegate Page 62 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

his powers to the Special Commissioner of State Tax and the
Additional Commissioners of State Tax. 41. We take notice of the fact that the delegation has been
authorized expressly under Section 5(3) of the Act. We would
have definitely interfered if the Special Commissioner or the
Additional Commissioners would have further delegated the
power to officers subordinate to them. Such is not the case over
here. 42. In the impugned notification it has been stated that the
functions delegated shall be under the overall supervision of the
Commissioner. When the Commissioner stated that his
functions were delegated subject to his overall supervision, it did
not mean or should not be construed as if he reserved to himself
the right to intervene to impose his own decision upon his
delegate. The words in the last part of the impugned notification
would mean that the Commissioner could control the exercise
administratively as to the kinds of cases in which the delegate
could take action. In other words, the administrative side of the
delegate's duties were to be the subject of control and revision
but not the essential power to decide, whether to take action or
not in a particular case. Once the powers are delegated for the
purpose of Section 69 of the Act, the subjective satisfaction, or
rather, the reasonable belief should be that of the delegated
authority. 43. Mr.Pandya invited our attention to a decision of this Court
in the case of Valerius Industries (supra), more particularly, the Page 63 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

observations made by this Court in para-35. We quote para-35
as under : 44. In Valerius Industries (supra), this Court was dealing with
a matter in which the subject matter of challenge was an order of
provisional attachment under Section 83 of the Act. For the
purpose of Section 83 of the Act, the Legislature thought fit to
confer the power upon the Commissioner. However, in this
regard also, the Commissioner has issued a notification dated
15th January 2018 delegating his power to three subordinate
officers. While considering the challenge, this Court observed in
para-35 as quoted above. C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT 45. We are of the view that the observations made by this
Court in the above referred para-35 could be termed as per
incurium as such observations run contrary to the Supreme
Court decisions referred to above in this judgment. 46. It is an accepted principle of administrative law that the
repository of power must exercise that power personally.
However, there are two exceptions to this principle : 51. The answer given by the Full Bench to the first question referred to above is relevant for our purpose. In para-30, the
court observed as under : (Emphasis supplied) 52. Thus, the dictum as laid in the aforesaid Full Bench
decision of the Allahabad High Court is that, normally the
administrative functions and powers can be delegated in favour
of a coordinate authority or to a subordinate authority. When
administrative function is statutory in nature and the function
or the power is assigned under the statute, it should be
performed or exercised by that authority unless the power to
delegate such function or exercise of power is specifically
provided or may be inferred by necessary implication from the
provisions contained in the statute. 53. In the case on hand, Section 5(3) of the Act specifically
confers power upon the Commissioner to delegate his functions. 54. We also have to our benefit, a Division Bench decision of
the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Raghunath v.
Indore Municipal Corporation, Indore, reported in AIR 1987 (MP) 181. In the said case before the Madhya Pradesh High Court, the
petitioner, being dissatisfied with the valuation of the property
made for the purpose of property tax, filed his objections under Section 147 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act,
1956. Those objections were heard and rejected by the
Assessment Officer of the respondent Corporation in pursuance
of the powers conferred upon him by the Commissioner of the
Corporation. The petitioner argued before the High Court that
the respondent no.2, i.e. the Commissioner of the Corporation, Page 69 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

had no power to delegate the powers conferred upon him by Section 148 of the Act to any other officer of the Corporation,
and consequently, the orders passed by the Assessment Officer
overruling the objections submitted by the petitioner could be
termed as without jurisdiction or null and void. On the other
hand, on behalf of the Corporation, it was contended that the
Commissioner is empowered under the provisions of Section
69(4) of the Act, 1956, to delegate any of the powers, duties or
functions conferred upon him by the Act to any officer of the
Municipal Corporation and that in pursuance of that power the
Commissioner had delegated the power conferred upon him by Section 148 of the Act. It was argued on behalf of the
Corporation that the orders passed by the Assessment Officer
overruling the objections of the petitioner cannot be held to be
without jurisdiction or null and void. 55. The following questions fell for the consideration of the
Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court : 56. The court proceeded to observe as under : Section 69(4) of the Act empowering the Commissioner to
delegate his functions to any officer of the Corporation,
reads as follows : Now, power to determine objections to valuation is conferred
on the Commissioner by S.148 of the Act. That this power,
under S.148 of the Act to decide objections is a
quasi-judicial power" was not disputed before us on behalf
of the respondents. The contention urged on behalf of the
petitioners was that the Commissioner had no power to
delegate the quasi-judicial power conferred upon him by S.148 of the Act. C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT 6. As held by the Supreme Court in Bombay Municipal
Corpn. v. Dhondu Narayan Chowdhary , AIR 1965 SC 1486,
it is well settled that judicial power cannot ordinarily be
delegated unless the law expressly or by clear implication,
permits it. S.69(4) of the Act, in our opinion, is a provision,
which expressly permits the Commissioner to delegate any
power conferred upon him by the Act. In absence of the
provisions of S.69(4) of the Act, the Commissioner could not
have delegated the quasi-judicial powers conferred upon
him by the Act. 7. It is, however, urged on behalf of the petitioner that S.69(4) of the Act refers only to the administrative powers
under the Act and not to any other power under the Act.
There is no warrant for construing the provisions of S.69(4) of the Act in such a way as to confine it to delegation of
administrative powers only. S.69(4) of the Act enables
delegation of all powers conferred upon the Commissioner
by the Act, irrespective of the nature of the power. When an
officer of the Corporation decides the objections under S.148 of the Act, in pursuance of the powers conferred upon by the
Commissioner, the order passed by that officer is
tantamount to an order passed by the Commissioner by
virtue of S.5(11) of the Act and is appealable to the District
Court under S.149 of the Act. While conferring power on the
Commissioner to delegate his functions under the Act, the
legislature has not chosen to limit that power to
administrative functions only. S.69(4) of the Act expressly
confers upon the Commissioner the power to delegate any Page 72 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

power conferred upon him by the Act, to any Municipal
Officer. That the control and superintendence envisaged in S.69(4) of the Act cannot bear the meaning, which they in
delegation of administrative functions, is clear from the
decision of the Supreme Court in AIR 1965 SC 1486 (supra).
In that case, while construing a similar provision in the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act , the Supreme Court
observed as follows :- In view of the aforesaid decision of the Supreme Court, it
 cannot be held that the fact that the power delegated under S.69(4) of the Act by the Commissioner is to be exercised
 subject to the control and superintendence of the
 Commissioner, rules out delegation of quasi-judicial power
 conferred upon the Commissioner by S.148 of the Act. Such
 a construction would also not be reasonable because the
 legislature has chosen to confer power upon the
 Commissioner by S.69(4) of the Act, to delegate any of his
 functions under the Act, without any reservation,
 presumably because, in a city, where a Corporation is
 established, the Commissioner cannot possibly exercise
 each and every power conferred upon him by the Act. Under
 the circumstances, it cannot be held that the objections to
 the valuation preferred by the petitioners have been decided
 by a person, who had no jurisdiction to decide those
 objections." 57. Thus, the dictum as laid in the aforesaid decision is that,
be it quasi-judicial or administrative power, the same can be
delegated provided the law expressly or by clear implication
permits it to be delegated. The Bench took the view that having
regard to Section 69(4) of the Act referred to above, the
Commissioner has been empowered to delegate any of his
powers. The Bench also clarified that in the absence of the Page 74 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020 C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT

provisions of Section 69(4) of the Act, the Commissioner could
not have delegated the quasi-judicial powers conferred upon him
by the Act. 58. One important observation made by the Division Bench of
the Madhya Pradesh High Court is, "where a Corporation is
established the Commissioner cannot possibly exercise each and
every power conferred upon him by the Act". In such
circumstances, the statute has permitted the Commissioner to
delegate his powers to any of his subordinate authority. 59. The last contention of Mr.Pandya is that although the
Commissioner of Tax has been empowered by the statute to
delegate his powers, yet, at the same time, Section 69 of the Act
mandates that the reasonable belief should be that of the
Commissioner. The argument proceeds on the footing that
whenever a power is to be exercised based on the reasonable
belief of the authority upon whom such power has been
conferred, the same cannot be delegated though the statute
empowers the statutory authority to do so. In short, Mr.Pandya
is trying to draw a distinction between a particular power to be
exercised and power to be exercised based on the reasonable
belief of the authority. In our opinion, it does not make any
difference. The very same reasonable belief will be that of the
authority upon whom the power is delegated. The power under Section 69 of the Act can be exercised by the authority upon
whom the power is delegated provided the delegatee has reasons
to believe that the assessee has committed offence under Section
132 of the Act. Therefore, the condition precedent, i.e.
'reasonable belief', for the purpose of exercise of power under Section 69 of the Act remains the same. C/SCA/513/2020 JUDGMENT 60. In the result, these writ-applications fail and are hereby
rejected. Rule stands discharged. (J. B. PARDIWALA, J.)

 (BHARGAV D. KARIA, J.)
/MOINUDDIN Page 76 of 76 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:23:06 IST 2020