1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
 Cr. MP (M) No. 1734 of 2020
 Reserved on: 27th November, 2020

 . COURT PROCEEDINGS CONVENED THROUGH VIDEO CONFERENCE

 Anoop Chitkara, Judge. The petitioner, a resident of Lucknow, is apprehending his imminent arrest on

 being arraigned as accused in an FIR on the allegations of conniving with a lady for

 opening a fictitious bank account, and receiving consideration for selling a fake
 marksheet, came up under Section 438 CrPC, seeking anticipatory bail. 2. Based on the complaint of Registrar of Arni University, Indora, District
 Kangra, HP, the police registered FIR No. 289 of 2018, dated 24.10.2018, under Sections 420 , 468 , 471 , 201 , 120B of Indian Penal Code, 1860, ( IPC ), in Police
 Station Indora, District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh, disclosing cognizable and non-
 bailable offences. 3. The allegations against the petitioner are that on 24 th October 2018, Shri
 Sangram Singh Guleria, Registrar of Arni University, visited Police Station, Indora
 filed a complaint that on 23.8.2018, one Gaurav Sharma, resident of Muzaffarnagar 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? UP, came to the University for taking his Migration and Degree and he produced his
 DMC. When they tallied the DMC with their records, the same was found to be
 forged. After that, they detained said Gaurav Sharma and on inquiry, he disclosed

 . that he has got this DMC from one Amit Kumar son of Shri Rishipal, resident of

 District Muzaffarnagar, UP, for payment of Rs.80,000/- (eighty thousand only).
 Subsequently, Gaurav Sharma telephonically called his father, who came to Indora

 along with the person, who had given the degree of BBA and DMC to Gaurav. The
 University people also detained Amit and produced them before the Police. On these
 allegations, the police registered the FIR mentioned above. Accused Gaurav Sharma
 in his interrogation disclosed that he had obtained this forged marks-sheet through

 Amit Kumar for consideration of Rs. 80,000/-. Police arrested Gaurav Sharma and
 Amit Kumar. During the investigation, accused Amit Kumar disclosed that he has
 obtained the forged marks sheet from Kuldeep Kumar and Abhishek Pal for Rs. 80,000/- and told Gaurav Sharma that he could obtain his degree and migration from

 Arni University. Similarly, third accused Abhishek Pal was also interrogated and he
 disclosed that he has received the DMC of BBA of 1st Semester to 6th Semester from
 Arvind Kumar and gave the same to Kuldeep Kumar on payment of Rs. 80,000/-,

 and Police also arrested Arvind Kumar on 24.10.2018. During the investigation,
 accused Arvind Kumar disclosed that he had met a lady named Shivani Arora @

 Aruna Arora, who told him that she was Registrar in Arni University and the said
 lady had given the marks-sheet of Arni University to him after packing the same in

 an envelope, and he further handed it over to Abhishek Pal @ Deepak. He has also
 disclosed that Shivani Arora, was previously residing at Meerut and now residing at

 Jawalapur, Haridwar and she had opened an account in the name of Arni University
 in Bank of India, Haridwar. After that, on 22.11.2018, the Investigator obtained the
 details of the account from the Bank of India, Haridwar. A perusal of the account
 details reveals that Shivani Arora and M. Lal have opened an account in the name of
 Arni University on 10.07.2018 and Arvind had deposited initially Rs.10/- and
 thereafter Rs.49,990/- in that account on 9.8.2018. During the investigation, the
 details of this account were verified from Arni University and it was found that no
 account was opened by the Arni University in the Bank of India, Haridwar, and Arni
 University did not have employees in the names of Shivani Arora and M. Lal on its
 roll. After obtaining anticipatory bail, accused Shivani Arora associated in the ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 3 investigation on 3.2.2019 and disclosed that she was running a coaching Center at
 Haridwar, where she met with Dr. Manish Lal Srivastava, the petitioner herein, who
 told her that he has purchased Arni University. He also offered a job and also gave

 . an appointment and authority letter to her. She further disclosed that Manish Lal

 Srivastava had opened an account in Bank of India, Haridwar, in the name of Arni
 University, in which, she was also put as a co-account holder and she has also put

 signatures on the documents of the Bank. She had also worked in the office, opened
 by M. Lal at Dehradun, who also took her to Arni University. Accused Shivani also
 produced her appointment and authority letter to the police. 4. Status report reveals that the accused has joined the investigation consequent
 upon the directions of this court on 13.10.2020, and the police have recovered a sum
 of Rs. 50,000/-, from him, which was the consideration for selling the fake marksheet

 and was deposited in the fake account, opened in connivance of Shivani Arora. The

 police have also taken the specimen signatures of the accused and sent the same for
 comparison. 5. While opposing any protection, Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Ld. Additional Advocate

 General contends that the petitioner is not a resident of Himachal Pradesh, and it
 shall be very difficult to procure his presence, in case he defaults to appear. He
 further submits that if this Court grants bail, such order must be subject to condition

 that the petitioner furnishes such sureties who, in the event of default of appearance,

 are capable of producing him before Court to face trial. 6. Learned Counsel for the petitioner contends that the petitioner/accused does

 not have local sureties whom, in case the accused defaults from appearance, can be
 assessed as capable of producing him before the concerned Court. Ld. Counsel
 contends that in lieu of sureties, the petitioner is willing and ready to hand over a
 Fixed Deposit for Rs. One Lac, drawn in favour of any such person, as this Court
 directs. 7. Mr. Bharat Barowalia, Ld. Amicus Curiae contends that when it comes to the
 attestation of bonds, there is no distinction in bailable and non-bailable offences, and
 for the execution of bail bonds the legislature, while framing Section 445 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973, used the words such "Court" or "Officer," and did not
 restrict the privilege to the Courts alone. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE AND APPLICATION OF LAW ON FACTS: 8. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and others v. State of Punjab , 1980 (2) SCC 565,
 (Para 30), a Constitutional bench of Supreme Court held that the bail decision must

 . mention the cumulative effect of the variety of circumstances justifying the grant or
 refusal of bail. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav ,
 2005 (2) SCC 42, (Para 18), a three-member bench of Supreme Court held that the

 persons accused of non-bailable offences are entitled to bail, if the Court concerned
 concludes that the prosecution has failed to establish a prima facie case against him,
 or despite the existence of a prima facie case, the Court records reasons for its

 satisfaction for the need to release such persons on bail, in the given fact situations.
 The rejection of bail does not preclude filing a subsequent application, and the
 Courts can release on bail, provided the circumstances then prevailing requires, and a

 change in the fact situation. In State of Rajasthan, Jaipur v. Balchand , AIR 1977

 SC 2447, (Para 2 & 3), Supreme Court noticeably illustrated that the basic rule may
 perhaps be tersely put as bail, not jail, except where there are circumstances
 suggestive of the accused fleeing from justice or thwarting the course of justice or
 creating other troubles in the shape of repeating offences or intimidating witnesses. It

 is true that the gravity of the offence involved is likely to induce the petitioner to
 avoid the course of justice and must weigh with us when considering the question of

 jail, and also the heinousness of the crime. The ration of Gudikanti Narasimhulu v.
 Public Prosecutor, High Court of Andhra Pradesh, (1978) 1 SCC 240, (Para 16),

 Supreme Court in Para 16, is that the delicate light of the law favors release unless
 countered by the negative criteria necessitating the rejection of bail. In Dataram

 Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh , (2018) 3 SCC 22, (Para 6), Supreme Court held
 that the grant or refusal of bail is entirely within the discretion of the judge, and
 though that discretion is unfettered, it must be exercised judiciously, in a humane
 manner and compassionately. The conditions for the grant of bail ought not to be so
 strict as to be incapable of compliance, thereby making the grant of bail illusory. 9. Pre-trial incarceration needs justification depending upon the offense's heinous
 nature, terms of the sentence prescribed in the statute for such a crime, probability of
 the accused a flight risk or possibility of her fleeing from justice, hampering the
 investigation, criminal history, and probability of doing away with the victim or ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 5 witnesses. The Court is under an obligation to maintain a balance between all
 stakeholders and safeguard the interests of the victim, accused, society, and the State.
 However, while deciding bail applications, the Courts should discuss only the

 . relevant evidence. The difference in the order of bail and final judgment is similar to

 a sketch and a painting. However, some sketches are in detail and paintings with a
 few strokes. 10. During interrogation, the accused has already handed over the alleged money
 paid by the complainant. The accused does not seem to be a flight risk. The
 allegations against the petitioner are based upon the statement of a co-accused and

 are not convincing enough to deny anticipatory bail. An analysis of the evidence
 against the petitioner also does not justify pre-trial incarceration of the accused, nor
 is it going to achieve any significant purpose, making out a case for bail. 11.

 The possibility of the accused influencing the course of the investigation,

 tampering with evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing
 justice, can be taken care of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In
 Sushila Aggarwal, (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional bench of Supreme

 Court held that unusually, subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose
 restrictive conditions. The ratio of decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sumit
 Mehta v. State of N.C.T. of Delhi , (2013)15 SCC 570, Para 11, is that while

 exercising powers under Section 438 of CrPC, the Court is duty-bound to strike a

 balance between the individual's right to personal freedom and the right of
 investigation of the police, to ensure an uninterrupted and unhampered investigation,
 and while exercising utmost restraint, the Court can impose conditions permissible

 under the law, countenancing the object of such restrictions. APPLICATION OF LAW ON FIXED DEPOSIT INSTEAD OF BOND
 AMOUNT: 12. In Sumit Mehta v. State of N.C.T. of Delhi , (2013)15 SCC 570, while dealing
 with an appeal against the order passed by High Court while granting anticipatory
 bail had directed him to deposit an amount of Rs. 1,00,00,000/- (one crore) in fixed
 deposit in the name of the complainant in any nationalized bank and to keep the FDR
 with the Investigating Officer, Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows, ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 6 "[14]. Thus, in the case on hand, fixed deposit of Rs.
 1,00,00,000/- for a period of six months in the name of the
 complainant and to keep the FDR with the investigating officer
 as a condition precedent for grant of anticipatory bail is

 . evidently onerous and unreasonable. It must be remembered that

 the Court has not even come to the conclusion whether the
 allegations made are true or not which can only be ascertained
 after completion of trial. Certainly, in no words are we
 suggesting that the power to impose a condition of this nature is

 totally excluded, even in cases of cheating, electricity pilferage,
 white-collar crimes or chit fund scams etc.

 [15]. The words "any condition" used in the provision should
 not be regarded as conferring absolute power on a Court of law

 to impose any condition that it chooses to impose. Any condition
 has to be interpreted as a reasonable condition acceptable in the
 facts permissible in the circumstance and effective in the
 pragmatic sense and should not defeat the order of grant of bail.
 We are of the view that the present facts and circumstances of

 the case do not warrant such extreme condition to be imposed." 13. Grant of bail is subject to the accused promising the Court to attend the trial
 and comply with the conditions stipulated in the order. The accused accepts such a
 contract by furnishing bail bonds, and so do her sureties, undertaking to produce the

 accused before the concerned Court, in case she defaults to appear. Section 74 of the
 Indian Contract Act, 1972, provides compensation for breach of contract where a

 penalty is stipulated and clinching the issue, its illustration (c) reads as follows, "A'
 gives a recognizance binding him in a penalty of Rs. 500 to appear in Court on a

 certain day. He forfeits his recognizance. He is liable to pay the whole penalty." 14. In Pillappan @ Ravikumar v. State , 2018 LawSuit (Mad) 1475, Madras High
 Court observed,

 "[15] By virtue of Sec. 89 of the Code, the Court records the
 absence of the accused and issues a warrant to secure his
 presence. By his non appearance followed up with the act of the
 Court in issuing the non-bailable warrant for securing his
 presence, the accused has prima facie breached the condition of
 the bond. A bond is a contract between the accused and the State
 under which the accused has agreed to appear before the Court
 on the hearing dates and his sureties have assured the Court that
 they will ensure that the accused does not commit breach of the
 bond." 15. It is beyond cavil that the sole purpose of a bond is to ensure the presence of
 the accused to attend the trial and surrender to undergo the sentence of imprisonment.
 The world is moving towards globalization. In rapidly changing times, people are

 . traveling more and more, covering long distances. It exposes them to the risk of

 being arraigned as accused in locations far away from native places or places of
 residence. With unique identity details, monetary bail is even better. It would also

 address the unethical system of unscrupulous stock sureties, throwing them out of
 highly questionable and unethical practices. 16. Even the Legislature was aware of the menace of stock sureties and with a

 view to curb it, the Parliament, vide amendment of 2005, inserted S. 441-A CrPC,
 1973, which reads as follows: 17. In its farsightedness, the legislature kept provision for the situations when an
 accused does not find any surety or none is ready to stand surety for her, by
 incorporating S. 445 of CrPC, 1973, which reads as under: 18. If the legislative intention was only to use cash deposit then using the word
 "money" was sufficient and there was no requirement to use the word "Government
 promissory notes". Thus, the words "Government promissory notes" denote
 something other than money because money is currency notes and even its widest
 definition would again include currency notes. Therefore, in no case, the term money
 would exclude currency notes. So, what was the need for the legislature to
 specifically use the term "Government promissory notes". A promissory note is a
 financial instrument wherein the drawer promises to its drawee or the bearer, a ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 8 definite sum of money, either on-demand or at a specified future date. It is something
 other than money i.e., currency notes. Thus, the legislature never stopped fixed
 deposits to be taken as a promise of appearance before the concerned Court. . 19. Section 269ST of Income Tax Act, 1961, and various other executive

 instructions issued by the Central Government reveal that the Country is moving
 from cash driven economy to a cashless economy. Thus, to ask an accused to deposit

 money under Section 445 CrPC would be against the spirit of the Legislative
 intention indicated by the successive Governments. 20. The world is passing through the revolution of information technology, with

 future unfolding before us and entering the internet of things. Albeit, this matter was
 also heard through video conference, however sadly due to compulsion of COVID-
 19 pandemic and not on our initiative. The database of AADHAR, PAN, and
 Passports ensures individuals' identity, obsoleting the identification through sureties. 21. Siddhant Maniktala, in his paper "Relevance of sureties in criminal
 jurisprudence when every person in India has an identity", Supremo Amicus, Vol 17,
 writes,
 Aadhaar may replace surety bond as a means of getting bail

 because his identity has been established and with the personal
 data secured with the UIDAI, it will not be difficult to track
 down the accused in case of his fleeing from justice. It seems

 much important and a much crucial reform to liberalise bail laws
 in India. After the introduction of Aadhar, solely generated by
 UIDAI, (Unique Identification Authority of India) which is a

 unique identification proof of an individual, the need of surety
 for granting bail becomes debatable. 22. The right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of India's Constitution includes the
 right to live with dignity. Begging or pestering before someone to stand as a surety,
 comes at the cost of pride. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India , AIR 1978 SC 597,
 a seven-member bench of Supreme Court held that obviously, procedure cannot be
 arbitrary, unfair or unreasonable. (Para 43). 23. Way back in 1980, in Hussainara Khatoon v. Home Secretary, State of
 Bihar , (1980) 1 SCC 81, a three-member bench of Supreme Court holds,

 "4. ... If the court is satisfied on a consideration of the
 relevant factors that the accused has his ties in the community ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 9 and there is no substantial risk of non-appearance, the accused
 may, as far as possible, be released on his personal bond. Of
 course, if facts are brought to the notice of the court which go to
 show that having regard to the condition and background of the

 . accused his previous record and the nature and circumstances of

 the offence, there may be a substantial risk of his non-
 appearance at the trial, as for example, where the accused is a
 notorious bad character or a confirmed criminal or the offence is
 serious (these examples are only by way of illustration), the

 court may not release the accused on his personal bond and may
 insist on bail with sureties...." 24. Earlier, in Moti Ram v. State of M.P. , (1978) 4 SCC 47, Supreme Court, after
 referring to the provision for suspension of sentence of those convicted by trial

 Courts, holds, 27. The slippery aspect is dispelled when we understand the import of

 Section 389 (1) which reads: The Court of appeal may release a convict on his own bond
 without sureties. Surely, it cannot be that an under-trial is

 worse off than a convict or that the power of the court to
 release increases when the guilt is established. It is not the
 court's status but the applicant's guilt status that is germane. That a guilty man may claim judicial liberation pro tempore
 without sureties while an under-trial cannot is a reductio ad
 absurdem. 25. Moti Ram is a judgement of one of the unique species containing the logical
 incantations dwelling on Section 441(2) and (3) while adverting to Section 389(1) of
 CrPC, and wealth is excavatable on the issue of furnishing cash bond. JUDICIAL PRECEDENTS ON S. 445 CrPC: 4. The language of S. 499, Criminal P.C. makes it perfectly clear

 that what that section contemplates is the furnishing of a
 personal bond by the accused person and a bond by one or more
 sufficient sureties. The accused as well as the sureties have,
 therefore, to execute only bonds which are sufficient in the mind

 of the amount which he might have fixed. This is also the view
 taken by the Patna High Court in 1943 AIR(Pat) 375 and I
 respectfully agree with it. Section 513 provides for a concession
 to an accused person who is unable to produce sureties. That
 section also makes it clear that the Magistrate is not bound to

 accept cash, but may permit an accused person to deposit a sum
 of money in lieu of executing a personal and giving surety of
 some persons. That section, however, does not authorise a
 demand of cash by a Magistrate. Under these circumstances,
 even though an offer may have been made in this case by the

 counsel for the applicant, that offer was made after the

 Magistrate apparently had made up his mind to demand cash
 security. It will not be covered by the terms of S. 513, Criminal
 P.C. and the demand of cash security in this case was clearly
 illegal." c) In Niamat Khan v. Crown, 1949 LawSuit (Nag) 42, High Court of Nagpur
 observed, 4. ... Even under Section 513, Criminal P.C (1898) the accused

 could only be asked to deposit the amount of security instead of
 executing a bond. This provision is meant for the benefit of the

 person who is required to execute a bond in case where he may
 not be able to find a surety.... In State of Mysore v. H Venkatarama Kotaiyah, 1968 CrLJ 696, Mysore d)

 High Court observed,
 [4] Section 513, Criminal P.C. states that when any person is
 required by any Court or officer to execute a bond, with or
 without sureties, such Court or officer, may, except in the case of
 a bond for good behaviour, permit him to deposit a sum of
 money or Government promissory notes to such amount as the
 Court or officer may fix, in lieu of executing such bond.
 According to this section, if the accused wants to deposit any
 sum of money, it is open to the Court to accept the same. But the
 law does not empower the Court to insist on cash deposit to be
 made by the accused. e) In Krishna Kumar and others v. State of Karnataka , 1979 SCC OnLine ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 11 Kar 118, 3. It is also clear that on the Court requiring a person to execute
 a personal bond with sureties or without sureties, it is at the
 option of the accused persons to furnish cash deposit in lieu

 . of the bond or sureties that the Court may make an order under

 Section 445. In the instant case, it is clear from the orders that
 the learned Magistrate has asked for securities in all the forms
 available under both the sections which is impermissible. f) In Gokul Das v. The State of Assam , 1981 CrLJ 229, Gauhati High Court
 observed, 14. From the relevant provisions of the Criminal Procedure
 Code , there is no doubt that cash deposit in lieu of execution of

 a bond by the accused is an alternative system of granting bail
 and can be stated to be no less efficacious than granting bail of
 certain amount with or without surety or sureties of the like
 amount. g) In Afsar Khan v. State by Girinagar Police, Bangalore , 1992 Cr.LJ 1676,

 Karnataka High Court observed,
 [7] A reading of the entire Chapter which deals with the
 provisions relating to bail, does not say that when a person is

 released on bail, the Court can also insist upon him to give cash
 security. After all, the object of granting bail is to see that the
 liberty of an individual is extended. Of course, when an
 accusation is made against a person, in the event of his release,

 it is the duty of the Court to see that the interest of the State and
 the public is safeguarded. For that purpose, the Court is
 empowered to insist upon appearance of the accused whenever

 so required either by the Police or Court either for investigation
 or to take up trial. During this period the Court can also warn the
 accused of his activities or movements in any way causing a fear

 or resulting in tampering with the prosecution evidence. While
 the Court exercises its discretion, whether it is under S. 437 or
 438 or 439, it shall exercise the same properly and not in an
 arbitrary manner. The discretion exercised shall appear a just
 and reasonable one. It is true that no norms are prescribed to
 exercise the discretion. Merely because, norms are not
 prescribed for the Court to exercise discretion under Ss. 437,
 438 or 439 that does not mean the discretion shall be left to the
 whims of the Court. Guiding principle shall be as indicated
 earlier with sound reasoning and in no way opposed to any other
 law. The Legislature has given this discretion to the Court
 keeping full faith in the system of administration of justice.
 While administering justice; it is the duty of the Court to see that
 any order to be passed or conditions to be imposed shall always
 be in the interest of both the accused and the State. The ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 12 conditions shall not be capricious. On the other hand, it shall be
 in the aid of giving effect to the very object behind the
 discretion. . h) In Parades Patra v. State of Orissa , 1994 (1) Crimes (HC) 109, 10. ...From this it can be reasonably inferred that it is not the
 mandate of the Code that the Magistrate should insist on cash
 security additional to personal bond with or without sureties. i) In Charles Shobhraj v. State , 1996 (63) DLT 91, Delhi High Court observed,
 [6] But then, all said and done, a few things need to be noticed.
 The object of requiring an accused to give security for his
 appearance in Court is not to secure the payment of money to

 the State, for that is a secondary consideration, but to secure the
 presence of a person facing trial. Thus the primary consideration
 is the personal element of the surety or sureties concerned as the
 Court expects the surety to see that the accused appears on the
 date fixed and also that the surety will take steps for getting the

 accused arrested in case of any attempt on the part of the

 accused to abscond or to avoid attendance in Court. As observed
 by Alvorstone, Lord Chief Justice of England in King v. Porter,
 (1910) I KB 369, it is to the interest of the public that criminals
 should be brought to justice, and therefore that it should be
 made as difficult as possible for a criminal to abscond. Responsibility is fixed on the sureties to see that such a person
 does not escape. A duty is thus cast on the Court, in accepting or
 rejecting a surety, to see the sureties are solvent and persons of
 sufficient vigilance to secure the appearance and prevent the

 absconding of the accused. [7] The principal purpose of bail being to secure that the accused

 person will return for trial if he is released after arrest, this
 consideration is not lost sight of in the provisions of section 445
 of the Code. It is only an enabling section, and provides that a
 Court or officer may permit a person to deposit a sum of money

 or Government promissory notes to such amount as the Court or
 officer may fix in lieu of executing a bond except in cases where
 the bond is for good behaviour. Surely, we cannot and must not
 lose sight of the word "may" which indicates that accepting the
 deposit of money in lieu of surety is left to the discretion of the
 Court and that consequently the acceptance of deposit of money
 is not obligatory and the relief is to be granted only where the
 Court thinks fit to substitute a cash security. While considering
 the question of fitness, principal purpose of bail as underlined
 above, would always remain a paramount consideration. In short
 thus besides the question as to whether the accused can find
 sureties or not, the Court shall have to keep in mind the question
 as to whether the prisoner is likely to abscond or not and while
 meditating on the last question the Court may take into account ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 13 various factors concerning him like the nature and
 circumstances of the offence charged, the weight of the evidence
 against him, length of his residence in the community, his family
 ties, employment, financial resources, character and mental

 . condition, his record of convictions, reputation, character and

 his records of appearance at Court proceedings or flight to avoid
 prosecution or failure to appear at Court proceedings. j) In Alluvdin v. Inspector of Police , 2001 CrLJ 2672, Madras High Court

 observed, 3. Section 441 Cr.P.C. reads that before any person is released
 on bail or released on his own bond, a bond for such sum of
 money as the Court thinks sufficient shall be executed by such

 person. Section 441 does not speak about deposit of any cash
 security. Only in certain contingencies, where the accused is
 unable to secure sureties for his release, he is permitted to
 deposit a sum of money or Government promissory Note as the
 Court may fix in lieu of executing such bond, under Section 445,
 Cr.P.C. k) In Shokhista v. State , 2005 LawSuit (Del) 1316, Delhi High Court observed, 5. ...The accused is a foreign national and is not able to furnish
 a local surety. The same does not debar her from being admitted

 to bail. The provision of local surety is nowhere mentioned in
 the Code of Criminal Procedure and surety can be from any part
 of the country or without. In the present case, since the accused
 is a foreign national and is facing investigation under Sections 4 , 5 and 8 of the I. T. P. Act and in view of the fact that the
 Petitioner is ready and willing to make a deposit in cash in lieu
 of the surety in addition to a personal bond, I am of the opinion

 that the ends of justice would be met in permitting her to do so.
 Consequently, I admit the Petitioner to bail on her furnishing a
 personal bond in the sum of Rs. 20,000/- and a cash deposit of

 the like amount in lieu of the surety to the satisfaction of the
 Trial Court. The Petitioner shall not leave the country without
 prior permission of the trial court and shall deposit her pass-port
 with the trial court. l) In Maha Ahmad Yusuf v. State of U.P. , 2015 (5) R.C.R.(Criminal) 13,
 Allahabad High Court observed, 6. .... The cash deposit is equally efficacious as other system in
 view of Section 445 Cr.P.C. m) In Sakthivel v. The State, Crl.O.P.No.835 of 2015, Madras High Court
 observed, 15. Either under Section 438, or under Section 437, 439 of ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 14 Cr.P.C ., it is not that the Courts have no power to impose such
 bail condition. But the condition should not be imposed for the
 sake of imposing condition. It must have some objective. It must
 be reasonable. It should not be oppressive in nature. It should

 . be performable, executable. In imposing condition, the Court

 must take into account the individual's position, financial
 capacity and his role in the case. n) In Navaneetha Krishnan v. State , 2015 (2) MadWN (Cri) 53, Madras High

 Court observed, 17. While granting bail, the Court can direct the accused to
 execute bail bond. As per Section 440 Cr.P.C., 1973 the bond
 amount should not be excessive. When a person so directed to

 execute the bond either with surety or without surety is not able
 to furnish the sureties, then under Section 445 Cr.P.C., 1973 he
 has the option to offer cash security. But even then, it must be a
 reasonable amount. It should not be an arbitrary, excessive
 amount. It should not be in the nature of deprivation of grant of

 bail by fixing a heavy amount as surety amount. If heavy

 amount is directed to be deposited as cash security, the
 bailee/accused will not be in a position to comply it. If heavy
 amount is demanded from the surety, then the bailor will not be
 forthcoming. And 'haves' will go out, while 'have nots' will
 remain in jail. 18. Reading sections 440 , 441 and 445 Cr.P.C., 1973 together, it
 is clear that straightaway a Court cannot direct the accused to
 deposit cash security. First of all, the Court has to direct
 execution of bail bond by the sureties in case if the release is not

 on his own bond. Only in lieu of that deposit of cash security
 could be directed (see Section 445 Cr.P.C., 1973). Thus, the

 Court cannot straightaway direct the accused to deposit cash
 security. In Sagayam @ Devasagayam v. State , 2017(3) MLJ (Cri) 134, Madras High o)

 Court observed, 40. Under the Code, there is provision for offering Cash surety
 (See Section 445 Cr.P.C.). Even in fixing the cash surety, the
 amount should not be excessive. (See Section 440(1) Cr.P.C.). In
 the first instance, Court cannot demand Cash surety from the
 accused. The offer to make cash surety must come from the
 accused. p) In Endua @ Manoj Moharana v. State , 2018(72) Orissa Cri. R.611, Orissa
 High Court observed, 9. The discretionary power exercised by the Magistrate or the
 Court, as the case may be, under sections 441 Cr.P.C., 1973 and ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 15 445 Cr.P.C ., is mutually exclusive and not concurrent. On the
 Court requiring a person to execute a personal bond with
 sureties or without sureties, it is at the option of the accused to
 furnish cash deposit in lieu of executing such bond that the

 . Court may make an order under section 445 of Cr.P.C., 1973 10. The order of bail should not be harsh and oppressive which
 would indirectly cause denial of bail thus depriving the person's
 individual liberty. While granting bail, insisting on good
 behaviour or prompt attendance, executing personal bond,

 further to safeguard his good behaviour and personal attendance
 may be supported by insisting upon additional sureties as the
 Court deems fit but insisting upon cash security is incorrect and
 indirectly results in denial of bail. The entire chapter of Cr.P.C .
 which deals with the provisions relating to bail nowhere says

 that when a person is released on bail, the Court can also insist
 upon him to give cash security. The power has to be exercised in
 a proper and judicious manner and not in an arbitrary, capricious
 or whimsical manner and the discretion exercised shall appear to
 be just and reasonable one. It is the duty of the Court to see that

 any order to be passed or conditions to be imposed while

 granting bail shall always be in the interest of both the accused
 and the State. 26. From the survey of the judicial precedents mentioned above, the following

 fundamental principles of law relating to the choice of the accused to furnish surety
 bonds or secure recognizance by depositing a sum of money or Government
 promissory notes, emerge: The principal purpose of bail is to secure that the accused person will
 return for trial if he is released after arrest, this consideration is not lost
 sight of in the provisions of section 445 of the Code. [Charles Shobhraj v. State, 1996 (63) DLT 91, Para 6 & 7]. b) The discretionary power exercised by the Magistrate or the Court, as
 the case may be, under sections 441 Cr.P.C., 1973 and 445 Cr.P.C ., is
 mutually exclusive and not concurrent. [ Endua @ Manoj Moharana v. State ,
 2018(72) Orissa Cri. R.611, Para 9]. c) A reading of the entire chapter which deals with the provisions
 relating to bail, does not say that when a person is released on bail, the
 Court can also insist upon him to give cash security. [ Afsar Khan v. State by
 Girinagar Police, Bangalore , 1992 Cr.LJ 1676 (7), Para 7]. d) Court cannot demand cash deposit as a condition of bail. [Rajballam
 Singh v. Emperor, AIR 1943 Patna 375, Para 2]. e) The offer to make cash surety must come from the accused. [ Sagayam
 @ Devasagayam v. State , 2017(3) MLJ (Cri) 134, Para 40]. . f) If the accused wants to deposit any sum of money, it is open to the

 Court to accept the same. [State of Mysore v. H Venkatarama Kotaiyah, 1968
 CrLJ 696, Para 4]. g) The Magistrate is not bound to accept cash, but may permit an

 accused person to deposit a sum of money. [ R. R. Chari v. Emperor , 1948
 AIR(All) 238, Para 4]. h) Cash deposit in lieu of execution of a bond by the accused is an
 alternative system of granting bail and can be stated to be no less

 efficacious than granting bail of certain amount with or without surety or
 sureties of the like amount. [ Gokul Das v. The State of Assam , 1981 CrLJ
 229, Para 14]. i) The cash deposit is equally efficacious as other system in view of Section 445 CrPC. [ Maha Ahmad Yusuf v. State of U.P. , 2015 (5) R.C.R.

 (Criminal) 13, Para 6]. j) This provision is meant for the benefit of the person who is required
 to execute a bond in case where he may not be able to find a surety.
 [Niamat Khan v. Crown, 1949 LawSuit (Nag) 42, Para 4]. k) The accused is a foreign national and is not able to furnish a local
 surety. The same does not debar her from being admitted to bail.
 [ Shokhista v. State , 2005 LawSuit (Del) 1316, Para 5]. l) It is not the mandate of the Code that the Magistrate should insist on

 cash security additional to personal bond with or without sureties. [ Parades
 Patra v. State of Orissa , 1994 (1) Crimes (HC) 109, Para 10]. SUBSTITUTION OF BONDS AT ANY STAGE: 27. In Sajal Kumar Mitra v. State of Maharastra, 2011 CrLJ 2744, High Court
 of Bombay observed,
 [10] In my view, the learned Magistrates have power to release
 the accused on bail initially on furnishing cash bail and,
 thereafter, asking him to furnish solvent sureties in appropriate
 cases. 28. There is a dearth of comprehensive data to establish that when the accused fails
 to appear before the Court, then on how many occassions, the sureties were able to
 produce the accused in Courts. One illustration can be that accused belongs to or has ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 17 moved to the other end of the State, and for the surety, the cost of travel, search, apart
 from efforts to persuade her to attend the Court would not only overrun the amount
 of surety but would also consume considerable time. To get rid of this problem, if the

 . surety amount is kept on the higher side, then it is likely to cause grave injustice to

 the poor. The sole role of sureties is to produce an absconding accused before the
 concerned Court. The purpose of a bond is not to enrich the State's coffers but to

 secure the accused's presence. No amount of money can justify the escape from the
 criminal justice system. 29. The Court and the Officers have formidable tasks of performing the tight rope

 locomotion by embarking on determination of the surety amount in consonance with
 the accused's monetary status. It should not be such as to precipitate the misery on
 the poor accused and deprive her of personal liberty despite being admitted to bail. 30.

 In Abhishek Kumar Singh v. State of Himachal Pradesh, Cr.MP(M) No.

 1017 of 2020, this Court has already analyzed the scope of furnishing fixed deposits
 in lieu of cash, while granting bail under S. 439 CrPC to the accused with an option
 to give fixed deposit in place of surety. 31. The legal proposition that also needs an answer is that while arresting the
 accused in bailable offences and when an accused gets anticipatory bail, then can

 such accused offer a fixed deposit in place of surety bonds? 32. S. 445 CrPC is clear that it applies to directions to an accused to execute bonds

 by officers and Courts, with or without sureties. An officer directs an accused to
 execute bonds only when the Court issues Bailable Warrants or when such officer

 arrests an accused in a bailable offence, or arrests in a non-bailable offence and when
 such an accused is armed with an order of anticipatory bail. Section 445 CrPC further
 provides that Court or such officer may permit the accused to deposit a sum of
 money or Government promissory notes of such amount, in lieu of executing such
 bond. Thus, for the purpose of S. 445 CrPC, the Legislature does not distinct Officers
 from Courts. 33. In appeals and revisions, the higher Courts suspend the sentence of a convict
 under sections 389 and 397 CrPC on bail or on her own bond. While dealing with
 appeal against acquittal of an accused, the appellate Court has powers under section ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 18 390 CrPC to admit such an accused on bail. The provisions contained in Chapter
 XXXIII of CrPC as to bail and bonds apply to all bails and bonds, including Ss. 389,
 390, and 397 CrPC . Thus, S. 445 CrPC applies to all bails, including granted under

 . sections 389 , 390 , 397 , 436 , 437 , 438 , and 439 CrPC. The similarity between Sections 436 to 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is that all these relate to bails,
 be it by Officer empowered to release on bail in bailable offences or release under

 bails granted by Courts. Furthermore, S. 445 CrPC provides for the deposit of a sum
 of money or Government promissory notes in all bonds except the case of a bond for
 good behavior. S. 445. Deals with a deposit instead of recognizance, and when any
 person is required by any Court or officer to execute a bond with or without sureties,

 such Court or officer may permit her to deposit a sum of money or Government
 promissory notes to such amount as the Court or officer may fix instead of executing
 such bond. 34. An analysis of the above infers that for any officer arresting the accused and
 asking execution of bonds, and any Court granting bail or directing to furnish bonds,
 or while suspending the execution of sentence, it is permissible to give an alternative

 option to the accused to furnish personal bond, with an undertaking to attend the trial
 on each date, unless exempted, and subject to handing over a fixed deposit(s) for a
 certain amount. 35. We are already late in encouraging deposits in place of sureties. Fixed deposit

 in place of cash or sureties with an undertaking to appear in Court is likely to
 improve the possibility of the accused's attendance because she would be aware that
 her money is safe and accruing interest on FD, and in default, such money, as a

 whole or in part, shall certainly be forfeited. It is further likely to motivate her not to
 default even once. In contrast, the risk of losing money handed over by cash to stock
 sureties is huge. There is hardly any assurance or likelihood of the refund of money
 taken by a stock surety. 36. Given the advent of online identification, the pragmatic approach is that while
 granting bail with sureties, the "Court" and "Officer" should give a choice to the
 accused to either furnish surety bonds or give a fixed deposit, with a further option to
 switch over to another, impliedly informing the accused of the existence of her right ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 19 under S. 445 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. Choosing between sureties and
 deposits, accused is the Queen and let her be. 37. An Advocate is an officer of the Court and a vigilant watcher of the interest of

 . her client. Owing allegiance to the Constitution of India and being a professional, it's
 her onerous duty to apprise the accused of the existence of the provisions of Section
 445, as an alternative to the surety. 38. Given above, in the event of arrest, the petitioner shall be released on bail in
 the FIR mentioned above, subject to his furnishing a personal bond of Rs. One Lac
 only (INR 1,00,000/-), and shall either furnish two sureties of a similar amount, both

 of whom, in case of default from putting in an appearance, can produce the accused
 before the Court to the satisfaction of the Arresting Officer or the aforesaid personal
 bond and fixed deposit(s) for Rs. One Lac only (INR 1,00,000/-), made in favour of

 Judicial Magistrate, Dharamshala, District Kangra, H.P., from any of the banks where

 the stake of the State is more than 50%, or any of the stable private banks, e.g.,
 HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, etc., with the clause of automatic
 renewal of principal, and liberty of the interest reverting to the linked account. The

 arresting officer shall give a time of ten working days to enable the accused to
 prepare a fixed deposit. Such a fixed deposit need not necessarily be made from the
 account of the petitioner. If such a fixed deposit is made on paper, then the original

 receipt shall be handed over to the arresting officer. If made online, then its printout,

 attested by any Advocate, and if possible countersigned by the accused, shall be
 filed, and the depositor shall get the online liquidation disabled. The petitioner or his
 Advocate shall inform at the earliest, either by e-mail or by post/courier, the

 concerned branch of the bank about the fixed deposit, whether made on paper or in
 any other mode, along with its number as well as FIR number, that it has been
 tendered as surety. After that he shall hand over such proof along with endorsement
 to the Investigator. It shall be total discretion of the petitioner to choose between
 surety bonds and fixed deposits. It shall also be open for the petitioner to apply for
 substitution of fixed deposit with surety bonds and vice-versa. Subject to the
 proceedings under S. 446 CrPC, if any, the entire amount of fixed deposit along with
 interest credited, if any, shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor(s). Such Officer
 shall have a lien over the deposits until discharged by substitution, and in case any ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 20 Court takes cognizance then such Court, upon which the investigator shall hand over
 the deposit to such Court, which shall have a lien over it up to the expiry of the
 period mentioned under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, or as the case may be. . 39. The furnishing of bail bonds shall be deemed acceptance of all stipulations,
 terms, and conditions of this bail order: Mail. i) Finally, if the petitioner still fails to put in an appearance, then the ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 21 concerned Court may issue Non-Bailable warrants to procure the petitioner's
 presence and send the petitioner to the Judicial custody for a period for which
 the concerned Court may deem fit and proper. . j) The petitioner shall intimate about the change of residential address and

 change of phone numbers, WhatsApp number, e-mail accounts, within thirty
 days from such modification, to the police station of this FIR, and the
 concerned Court, if such stage arises. k) In case of violation of any of the conditions as stipulated in this order, the
 State/Public Prosecutor may apply for cancellation of bail of the petitioner.
 Otherwise, the bail bonds shall continue to remain in force throughout the trial
 following the mandate of the Constitutional Bench in Sushila Aggarwal,
 (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, wherein the Constitutional bench held that

 anticipatory bail can continue until the end of the trial; however, the Courts can
 limit the bail period's tenure if unique or peculiar features require. 40. The learned Counsel representing the accused and the Officer in whose

 presence the petitioner puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions

 of this bail order to the petitioner, in Hindi or English. 41. In case, the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating fundamental,
 human, or other rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for

 modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a reasoned application before
 this Court, and after taking cognizance, even before the Court taking cognizance or
 the trial Court, as the case may be, and such Court shall also be competent to modify

 or delete any condition. 42. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the
 accused shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 43. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the Police or
 the investigating agency, from further investigation in accordance with law. 44. The present bail order is only for the FIR mentioned above. It shall not be a
 blanket order of bail in any other case(s) registered against the petitioner. 45. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
 merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 46. While deciding the propositions of law involved in this matter, I have
 considered my previous decision of Abhishek Kumar Singh v. State of Himachal ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP 22 Pradesh, Cr.MP(M) No. 1017 of 2020, which pertained to S. 439 CrPC. The present
 judgment is an upgraded version, is more comprehensive, up to date, covers Sections
 436 to 439 , 389 , 390 , and 397 CrPC, and henceforth there would be no point

 . referring Abhishek Kumar Singh as a precedence. 47. I express my gratitude to counsel for the parties, Ld. Amicus Curiae Mr. Bharat
 Barowalia for excellent assistance, and to my Research Assistant Ms. Kalyani

 Acharya for outstanding research. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned above. (Anoop Chitkara),
 Judge. December 01, 2020 (ps) ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2020 20:16:10 :::HCHP