Reserved on 20/06/2019
 Passed on 25/06/2019

 This is the first bail application under Section 439 of
 Cr.P.C. Applicant Manohar M.N. was arrested on 02/05/2019 in
 connection with Crime No.12/2019 registered at Economic Offences
 Wing, Bhopal (M.P.) for the offence punishable under Sections 120-B , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 of the IPC, Section 66 of the Information
 Technology Act, 2000 and Section 7 read with Section 13(2) of the
 Prevention of Corruption Act. 2. As per prosecution story, M.P. State Electronics
 Development Corporation Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "MPSEDC")
 is a body working under State of M.P. Department of Science and
 Technology. Department of Information Technology, Govt. of Madhya
 Pradesh adopted the e-Tendering System using online platform in 2006.
 In the year 2012 Government of Madhya Pradesh appointed MPSEDC,
 as the Nodal Agency for MP e-procurement portal. MPSEDC selected
 M/s Tata Consultancy Services with Antares Systems Ltd. as the new
 Implementation Agency for end-to-end e-Procurement solutions. The Digitally signed by ANURAG SONI Date: 26/06/2019 10:59:14 2 agreement with TCS & Antares was signed in the year 2013. The New
 Service Providers undertook the Customization, Integration,
 Implementation and Maintenance of Single, Unitary, Web Based e-
 Procurement Software (Portal) with the specified modules which also
 include E-Tendering. Applicant Manohar M.N. was the Vice President
 of Antares Systems Ltd. and was the project in-charge on behalf of the
 company. Co-accused Nandkishor Brahme was posted as OSD in
 MPSEDC from the year 2012 and was assigned the duty as Nodal
 Officer of E-Tendering Project. In E-Tendering Project, MPSEDC
 made a platform available to various Government Departments for
 floating tenders. In the tendering processes the concerned Department
 which issued the tender uploaded its tender on the portal, on which last
 date of filing tender and the time of its opening was mentioned. While
 issuing the tender, the concerned officer also attached the public key of
 his digital signature. The tenderer after registering himself on MP e-
 Procurement portal filled the tender and after filing the tender,
 submitted the tender on the portal after it was encrypted by the public
 key of the officer concerned attached with the tender. After submission
 of the tender, no departmental officer, e-tendering company or other
 person could open the tender before its opening time. 3. On 11th April, 2018 at the time of opening of three tenders
 Nos. 91, 93 & 94 floated by the Madhya Pradesh Jal Nigam Maryadit
 (here in after referred as "MPJNM") the computer displayed a message
 that "the contents of the document had been modified". On that service
 provider company Antares Systems Ltd. was directed to submit the
 report after inquiry. In the first report given by the team of Antares
 Systems Ltd after examining the system they mentioned that there was
 no irregularity and only attributed the message to technical defect.
 However, they also stated that further technical analysis was going on.
 Thereafter, on 05/05/2019 Antares Systems Ltd. again gave the Root Digitally signed by ANURAG SONI Date: 26/06/2019 10:59:14 3 Cause Analysis Report (R.C.A.) mentioning therein that the tenders had
 been tampered with. On that the then Managing Director of MPSIDC
 informed MPJNM for canceling these bids and also directed Antares
 Systems Ltd. to enquire all the tenders, which were floated by the
 various Government department between 01/01/2018 to 30/04/2018 on
 E-Portal. On that the team of employees of Antares Systems Ltd. again
 enquired the matter and gave the report to the effect that during the
 check period six other tenders i.e. tender of MP Road Development
 Corporation No.786, Public Works Department Tender Nos. 49813,
 49982 & 49985 and tender of Water Resources Department Nos. 10030
 & 10044 were also manipulated similarly. 4. Thereupon, on the direction of Chief Secretary of M.P.
 Government a preliminary enquiry was conducted by the Economic
 Offence Wing. In the preliminary enquiry it was found that after
 changing the bid price of tender Nos. 91, 93 & 94 of MPJNM
 amounting to Rs.1,769 crore the M/s GVPR Engineers Limited
 Hyderabad for tender No.91, M/s the Hume Pipe Company Limited
 Mumbai for tender No. 93 and M/s JMC Projects India Limited
 Mumbai for tender No. 94 were made lowest bidder (L1), likewise by
 tampering the two tenders of the Public Works Department Tenders
 Nos.49985 & 49982 amounting to Rs.13.46 crores, M/s Ramkumar
 Narwani Bhopal, were made lowest bidder, in the Tender no. 4981319
 amounting to 15 crores, Sorathiya Velji Ratna and Company Vadodara
 were made lowest bidder. After tampering the tender of Madhya
 Pradesh Road Development Corporation amounting to Rs.7.86 crores
 M/s Madhav Infra projects Vadodara, Water Resources Department
 tender Nos.10030 & 10044 total amounting to Rs.1135 Crore, M/s Max
 Mantena Micro JV Hyderabad and Sorathiya Velji Ratna Baroda were
 made a lowest bidder (L-1), due to which companies earned illegal
 profits. 5. On the basis of that preliminary evidences and findings of a
 probe report of the Computer Emergency Response Team, New Delhi,
 Crime No.12/2019 was registered at Economic Offences Wing, Bhopal
 (M.P.) for the offence punishable under Sections 120-B , 420 , 468 , 471 of the IPC, Section 66 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Section 7 read with Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act
 against applicant and other co-accused persons. 6. From the report of the Computer Emergency Response
 Team, New Delhi and the other evidence collected by the investigating
 agency during investigation it was found that in the year 2016, OSMO
 Pvt. Ltd. (co-accused Varun Chaturvedi and Vinay Choudhary, the
 Managing Directors of OSMO and Sumit Golwalkar, the Marketing
 Director of that company) entered into an agreement with Antares Ltd.
 in order to check the reasons why the whole system of E-tendering had
 slowed down and was engaged to conduct a performance test of the E-
 tendering system and come up with concrete steps to tackle the slow
 speed. During the performance test, OSMO was provided with user IDs
 and Bidder IDs by the Antares Ltd. In the month of June, 2016 OSMO
 stated that it was not able to conduct a performance test of the whole
 system and thus could not complete the process of testing. 7. It is further stated that the manipulation was done by one of
 the user ID and bid IDs. For manipulating the tenders of MPJNM, a
 demo file was created on MP e-procurement portal. That file was
 created using ID PT 4, which was given to OSMO IT Solutions at the
 time of performance testing and they also used digital signature
 certificate (DSC) of Keshav Rao Uikey. The IP address registered while
 creating the said demo file was 27.60.163.98 and 27.60.185.14, which
 was linked with mobile No.9755092919. The SIM of this mobile
 number was registered in the name of co-accused Varun Chaturvedi and
 was being used by co-accused Vinay Choudhary. Thereafter, hackers Digitally signed by ANURAG SONI Date: 26/06/2019 10:59:14 5 entered into the database through the staging server, where original
 tenders were stored and this process was done through virtual private
 network (VPN), the access of which was only with co-accused
 Nandkishore Bramhe. After reaching the database server hackers
 accessed the file where the original tenders were saved. They copied
 the details of all the bidders, who submitted the bids, which were
 encrypted. After copying the bids they again came back to the demo
 tender file created by them earlier and by using bidder ID number
 15597 and vendor ID number QK 829 846 pasted the said bids in demo
 file. The vendor ID used for this purpose was the same, which was
 issued to OSMO for performance testing in the year 2016. After pasting
 the encrypted bid in the demo file, the hackers assessed the system
 again on 03-03-2018 i.e. the date on which the said bids stood
 decrypted as the date of opening the demo tender was mentioned as 03-
 03-2018. Thus, they were able to see the figures/bids submitted by all
 the bidders in encrypted form. After seeing the amount filed by each
 bidder another demo file was created in the second demo file, the
 encrypted bids as visible in the first demo file were pasted in the second
 demo file. Again by using the bidder ID No.15597 having vendor ID
 number QK29846 they manipulated the bids and made the person they
 wanted to benefit as the lowest bidder (L-1). After making the change
 in the second demo file and placing a wrong bidder L-1 hackers copied
 the encrypted/manipulated bid value and again by using the staging
 server reached the database server through a VPN, access of which
 was given to co-accused Nandkishore Bramhe, opened the original
 tender file and pasted the said encrypted manipulated bid value next to
 the name of the bidder they wanted to benefit and thus manipulated the
 bids. 8. Learned counsel of the applicant submitted that the
 applicant is nowhere involved in that scam. He is the Assistant vice Digitally signed by ANURAG SONI Date: 26/06/2019 10:59:14 6 President of the ASL Company. ASL is a company specializing in
 software management particularly pertaining to the public e-
 procurement, since the year 1997 and ever since has been working to
 the satisfaction of the Government Agencies throughout the Country.
 ASL has continuously been providing the software e-procurement
 services to the State of Punjab, Goa and certain other States. The
 applicant has been successfully working as a marketing personnel
 targeting business development in ASL since the year 2004. It is further
 submitted that TCS alongwith ASL had participated in the bid and
 looking to the reputation of the companies and other relevant factors.
 TCS along with ASL were successful bidders and accordingly a Tri-
 Party agreement was executed between MPSEDC, ASL and TCS. It is
 further submitted that they had a pre-defined duty in their respective
 expertise in managing the aforesaid e-procurement portal. Accordingly,
 the security of the portal entirely rested with MPSEDC. In this regard
 applicant is also filed the copy of said Tri-Party agreement. Learned
 counsel of the applicant further submitted that the allegations against
 the present applicant is that Antares Ltd was allegedly entrusted with
 the security of the portal. During the process of performance test,
 OSMO was provided with user IDs and bidder IDs by the Antares Ltd.
 The bids were altered by using that user IDs and bidder IDs. However,
 from the material available on record it is clearly manifested that the
 duty of the security squarely belongs to the MPSEDC. The bids were
 altered at the user ID level, which had nothing to do with the operations
 of the software functions, which was being performed by ASL. The
 applicant has falsely been implicated in the crime. The applicant is a
 reputed citizen of the locality and there is no likelihood of his
 absconding or tampering with the prosecution evidence. He is in
 custody since 02/05/2019 and conclusion of trial will take time. On the Digitally signed by ANURAG SONI Date: 26/06/2019 10:59:14 7 strength of aforesaid submissions it is prayed that the applicant be
 released on bail. 9. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent/EOW
 opposed the prayer and submitted that the whole responsibility of
 security of e-procurement portal was with the applicant Manohar M.N.
 since he was the head of Antares in respect of e-procurement portal at
 Bhopal. In the latter produced by Suresh Kumar CEO of Antares this
 fact is mentioned. Applicant Manohar M.N. was hand and gloves with
 all the co-accused persons and just to benefit them came with the first
 report dated 17/04/2018 that there was no tempering in the bids. Even
 prior to that Antares also sent an Email on 11/04/2018 mentioning that
 no irregularity was found. Later, when the said tempering came to the
 knowledge of higher officials second finding report was given
 accepting that the tempering had happened in the whole tendering
 process, which shows that he was also involved in the conspiracy. No
 manipulation could have taken place without the knowledge of
 applicant Manohar M.N. The demo files which were used in the
 manipulation in the bids were created and made available to OSMO by
 the applicant Manohar M.N. and by using the bidder ID, bids were
 changed and manipulated. On the request of co-accused Nandkishore
 Brahme VPN Access was given to him, which was also used by the
 Antares from his Bangalore office for maintenance of the e-
 procurement portal. That VPN was used in the tender manipulation. In
 the report of CERT it is mentioned that the Staging server had access to
 the main database, which should ideally not be the case. By assessing
 the database through the staging server, data had been read from
 genuine tenders and copied to blank tenders name Demo. The said
 faulty process was created by applicant Manohar M.N. so that the other
 co-accused persons could access the main database seamlessly and
 manipulation could be done. This clearly shows that applicant Manohar Digitally signed by ANURAG SONI Date: 26/06/2019 10:59:14 8 M.N. was involved in the conspiracy. The investigation is still going
 on, so he should not be released on bail. 10. Applicant Manohar M.N. was the Vice President of Antares
 Systems Ltd. and was the project in-charge of e-Procurement Software
 (Portal) on behalf of the company. It is alleged that the demo files
 which were used in the manipulation in the bids were created and made
 available to OSMO by the applicant Manohar M.N. The investigation
 regarding his involvement in the crime is going on. So looking to the
 allegations as mentioned above, this Court is not inclined to grant bail
 to the applicant at this stage. 11. Accordingly, M.Cr.C. is rejected. (Rajeev Kumar Dubey)
 JUDGE

 as/ Digitally signed by ANURAG SONI Date: 26/06/2019 10:59:14