% 06.11.2025 1. The present petition under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarik
 Suraksha Sanhita, 20231 (corresponding to Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 19732) seeks quashing of FIR No. 945/2021 dated 21st
 December, 2021, registered under Sections 354(D) and 506 of the Indian
 Penal Code, 18603 read with Section 12 of Protection of Children from
 Sexual Offences Act, 20124 and Section 66E of the Information Technology
 Act, 20005, at P.S. Harsh Vihar, Delhi and all consequential proceedings
 emanating therefrom. 2. Briefly stated, the case of the prosecution against the Petitioner is that 1 "BNSS" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/11/2025 at 23:06:19
 a complaint was received from the Complainant/Respondent No. 2 (the
 victim), a college student, alleging that one Deepak, a resident of Harsh
 Vihar, had been harassing and blackmailing her. In her complaint, the victim
 stated that when she was about 16 years old and studying in school the
 accused used to follow her and persistently sought to befriend her despite
 her refusal. It is alleged that the accused obtained her home telephone
 number and begin calling her from his mobile number XXXXXX3906,
 inducing her to send objectionable photographs of herself on WhatsApp and
 also capturing certain intimate pictures without her consent. The
 complainant further stated that although she severed contact with the
 accused thereafter, he continued to harass her from different numbers and
 later, in November 2021, again contacted her pressurising her to meet him.
 Upon her refusal, the accused allegedly created a fake Instagram account
 uploaded her objectionable photograph and tagged her and her friends.
 When confronted, he admitted to having posted the image and threatened to
 upload more unless she complied with his demands. He thereafter repeatedly
 called and blackmailed her threatening to circulate her intimate photos and
 videos. On 20th December 2021, the accused again threatened her over a
 phone call, the recording of which was preserved by the complainant.
 Consequently, based on the statement, the FIR was registered on 21st
 December, 2021 at P.S. Harsh Vihar, Delhi. 3. The parties state that, with the intervention of respectable members of
 the society, they have amicably resolved the matter between themselves, and
 the Complainant/Respondent No. 2 has decided not to pursue the present
 FIR against the Petitioner. Pursuant to this settlement, a Settlement Deed 5 " IT Act " 4. A copy of the Settlement Deed has been placed on record and perused
 by the Court. As per its terms, Respondent No. 2 has mutually resolved all
 disputes and differences with the Petitioner and has agreed to voluntarily
 give her no objection to the quashing of the subject FIR. 5. The Complainant/Respondent No. 2, now an adult, appearing in
 person, duly identified by the Investigating Officer, unequivocally states that
 she does not wish to pursue the FIR proceedings. She submits that the matter
 has been amicably resolved between the parties and confirms that her
 decision to settle is voluntary and made without any undue influence or
 coercion. The Petitioner, who is also present in person and identified by the
 Investigating Officer, has expressed remorse and apologised for his past
 conduct, which the Complainant has accepted. She further states that she is
 presently pursuing her master's degree and that undergoing the entire trial
 would cause her unnecessary trauma. It is also stated that ever since the case
 was lodged, the Petitioner has not attempted to contact her and has deleted
 all objectionable posts, and that no such photographs presently exist on any
 online platform. In these circumstances, the Complainant submits that she
 has no objection if the subject FIR and all proceedings arising therefrom are
 quashed. 6. The Court has considered the aforenoted submissions. While the
 offence under Section 506 IPC is compoundable, the offences under Sections 354D IPC, Section 12 POCSO Act and Section 66E IT Act are
 non-compoundable. However, it is well settled that in the exercise of its
 inherent powers under Section 482 CrPC (corresponding to Section 528 W.P.(CRL) 1492/2025 Page 3 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/11/2025 at 23:06:19
 BNSS), the Court may, in appropriate cases, quash proceedings in respect of
 non-compoundable offences if the parties have reached a genuine settlement
 and no overarching public interest is adversely affected. The Supreme Court
 in Gian Singh v. State of Punjab & Anr.6 has held as follows: [Emphasis added] 7. Further, in Narinder Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab & Anr.,7 the
 Supreme Court held as follows: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/11/2025 at 23:06:19 (i) ends of justice, or (ii) to prevent abuse of the process of any court. While exercising the power the High Court is to form an opinion on
 either of the aforesaid two objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in those prosecutions which
 involve heinous and serious offences of mental depravity or offences
 like murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such offences are not private in nature
 and have a serious impact on society. Similarly, for the offences
 alleged to have been committed under special statute like the Prevention of Corruption Act or the offences committed by public
 servants while working in that capacity are not to be quashed merely
 on the basis of compromise between the victim and the offender.
 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases having overwhelmingly
 and predominantly civil character, particularly those arising out of
 commercial transactions or arising out of matrimonial relationship or
 family disputes should be quashed when the parties have resolved
 their entire disputes among themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High Court is to examine as to
 whether the possibility of conviction is remote and bleak and
 continuation of criminal cases would put the accused to great
 oppression and prejudice and extreme injustice would be caused to
 him by not quashing the criminal cases." [Emphasis Supplied] 8. Although the offences under Sections 354D IPC, Section 12 POCSO
 Act and Section 66E IT Act cannot be treated as strictly 'in personam', and
 they touch upon public concerns rather than being confined to individual
 grievances, the Court must also account for the practical realities of securing
 a conviction in the present case. The Supreme Court has consistently held
 that in cases where the complainant has entered into a voluntary and bona
 fide settlement, and is no longer inclined to support the prosecution, the
 prospect of securing a conviction becomes exceedingly remote. In such
 circumstances, continuing the prosecution may not only prove futile, but
 would also serve no worthwhile public interest. 9. The Complainant in the present case has categorically expressed her
 unwillingness to pursue the matter further and has confirmed the settlement W.P.(CRL) 1492/2025 Page 5 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/11/2025 at 23:06:19
 as voluntary and devoid of any coercion. Given this background, the
 continuation of criminal proceedings would amount to an empty formality,
 adding to the burden of the justice system and consuming public resources
 unnecessarily. 10. Having regard to the totality of circumstances, and in view of the
 legal principles laid down by the Supreme Court, this Court finds the present
 case to be an appropriate one for exercise of jurisdiction under Section 528
 BNSS (corresponding to Section 482 CrPC) to secure the ends of justice. 11. In view of the foregoing, the present petition is allowed and FIR No.
 945/2021 dated 21st December, 2021, registered under Sections 354(D) and 506 IPC read with Section 12 POCSO Act and Section 66E IT Act, at P.S.
 Harsh Vihar, Delhi and all consequential proceedings emanating therefrom
 are hereby quashed. 12. Having regard to the nature of the Petitioner's conduct, this Court is
 of the view that he must undertake community service as a measure of
 accountability. Accordingly, the Petitioner is directed to perform community
 service at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital for a period of one
 month, i.e., from 10th November, 2025 to 10th December, 2025. The
 Petitioner shall report to the Medical Superintendent of Lok Nayak Jai
 Prakash Narayan Hospital on 10th November, 2025 for instructions and
 assignment of duties. Upon completion of the said period, a certificate
 confirming the completion of community service shall be issued by the
 Medical Superintendent and the same shall be filed with the Registry. In the
 event of any absenteeism, default, or misconduct on the part of the Petitioner
 during the course of the community service, the same shall be immediately
 reported by the Medical Superintendent to the concerned SHO, who shall, in W.P.(CRL) 1492/2025 Page 6 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/11/2025 at 23:06:19
 turn, inform the APP for placing the matter before this Court and seeking
 appropriate orders, including revival of the FIR. 13. This Court further considers it appropriate that since State machinery
 was set in motion based on the impugned FIR, it is appropriate to impose
 costs on the Petitioner. Accordingly, the Petitioner is directed to deposit INR
 5,000/- with the Delhi Police Welfare Fund, within a period of four weeks
 from today. 14. The parties shall remain bound by the terms of settlement. 15. Accordingly, the petition is disposed of along with pending
 application(s). SANJEEV NARULA, J
 NOVEMBER 6, 2025/MK W.P.(CRL) 1492/2025 Page 7 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/11/2025 at 23:06:19