IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH SHIMLA Cr. A. No. 671/2019 Reserved on: 10.10.2023
 Decided on : 17.10.2023
Ashish Kumar alias Chirag .....Appellant

 Versus

State of Himachal Pradesh ....Respondent

Coram: 2.11.2019 respectively passed by the learned Additional

Sessions Judge-III, Kangra at Dharamshala, whereby he has

been convicted and sentenced to undergo - rigorous

imprisonment for a period of 10 years with fine of Rs.50,000/-

and in default of payment of fine, simple imprisonment of 1 year

under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ); rigorous
1 Whether reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 imprisonment of 2 years with fine of Rs.10,000/- and in default

of payment of fine, simple imprisonment of 6 months under Section 354-A IPC; rigorous imprisonment of 3 years with fine

of Rs.10,000/- and in default of payment of fine, simple

imprisonment of 6 months under Section 354B IPC; rigorous

imprisonment of 1 year with fine of Rs.5,000/- and in default of

payment of fine, simple imprisonment of 3 months under Section 385 IPC; rigorous imprisonment of 1 year with fine of

Rs.10,000/- and in default of payment of fine, simple

imprisonment of 6 months under Section 506 IPC; rigorous

imprisonment of 5 years with fine of Rs.10,000/- and in default

of payment of fine, simple imprisonment of 1 year under Section

328 IPC; rigorous imprisonment of 2 years with fine of

Rs.10,000/- and in default of payment of fine, simple

imprisonment of 6 months under Section 201 IPC; rigorous

imprisonment of 2 years with fine of Rs.1,00,000/- and in

default of payment of fine, simple imprisonment of 6 months

under Section 67 of the Information Technology Act. All the

sentences were ordered to run concurrently.

2 The case of the prosecution is that prosecutrix was

studying in 1st year in the college. In the last week of October

2016, after closing of the college, when the prosecutrix along 3 with her friends was going to her house, then the appellant

who, had come with Bobby, happened to see the prosecutrix

and told his friend Bobby that he liked her. The appellant also

asked his friend Bobby to put forward a proposal of friendship

on his behalf to the prosecutrix. Bobby gave the mobile phone

number of the prosecutrix to the appellant. When the appellant

made a telephone call to the prosecutrix she then asked him,

from where he had obtained her mobile phone number, who, in

turn, disclosed that he had obtained her mobile phone number

from someone. On this, the prosecutrix asked the appellant not

to make telephone calls to her. 3 On the next day, when the prosecutrix had gone to

her college, then she asked Bobby that to whom he had given

her mobile phone number and Bobby disclosed that he had

given her mobile phone number to the appellant as he was

asking for the same. On this, the prosecutrix told Bobby that

the appellant was harassing/troubling her by making repeated

telephone calls. Then, Bobby telephoned the appellant from

mobile phone of the prosecutrix and advised him not to trouble

her. 4 On the next day, the appellant visited her college

and was angry and asked the prosecutrix as to when had he 4 troubled her and he just wanted to talk to her. On this, she told

him that she was not interested to talk to him.

5 Thereafter, the prosecutrix and the appellant did not

talk for many days. But, after some days, the appellant made a

telephone call to the prosecutrix informing her that his brother

along with his girl friend was going on a trip and his brother

was also asking him to accompany and when he asked the

prosecutrix to accompany him to such trip, then she told him

that she had to appear in test/examination and he should not

make any telephone calls to her. 6 After some days, the appellant again went to the

college of the prosecutrix and told her that he was going back

and he wanted to talk to her once. After attending her college,

when the prosecutrix was going to Palampur, then the appellant

told her that he wanted to talk to her as he liked her very much

and he was working as Sub Inspector in Delhi Police and

further that in case, she was interested, then, he was even

ready to marry her. The prosecutrix told the appellant that

when she did not like him then why she should marry him. The

appellant thereafter went to a shop and brought something

added in cold drink and told her that if she did not want to talk

to him, she should have the cold drink and the prosecutrix took 5 the cold drink so brought by the appellant and thereafter,

became unconscious. 7 The appellant thereafter took the prosecutrix to

Hotel Moon Light at Palampur and put off her wearing apparels

except the underwear and made her video and clicked her

photographs in a nude condition. However, he did not commit

any wrong act with her. Later, the appellant started

blackmailing her by saying that he would not leak and

disseminate her video and photos if she would pay him

Rs.20,000/- and after paying the amount, he would give nude

photos and video to her. She expressed her inability to pay

Rs.20,000/- to him as she was not doing any job. She promised

to give him Rs.20,000/- as and when she would get a job and

asked him to delete her pictures and video. The appellant in

anger told her that she would see how he would defame her.

The prosecutrix on account of fear of the appellant closed her

mobile SIM. 8 On 9th and 10th November, the prosecutrix came to

know that her photos and video had been leaked and

disseminated. The prosecutrix told her friends about

disseminating her photos and video. She however did not tell

about it her family members on account of fear. The appellant 6 also started threatening her that if she failed to reach at the

place where, he would call her, then he would leak and transmit

her video and he would also affix her poster at bus stand and

ultimately, the video of the prosecutrix was sent to her friends.

9 On 23.11.2016, ASI Prem Pal, Incharge of Police Post

Thural along with other police personnel was present at place

'Balh Bhurian', then the prosecutrix along with her grandfather

submitted a complaint Ext.PW1/A before him and the

complaint was then sent to Police Station Palampur upon which

FIR Ext.PW16/A came to be registered against the appellant.

10 Investigation was carried out by Inspector

Gurbachan Singh, Station House officer, Police Station

Palampur and on 8.12.2016, the spot of the incident was

inspected and the site plan Ext.PW16/E was prepared on the

demarcation given by the prosecutrix. Photographs of the room

Ext.PW16/1 to Ext.PW16/D3 were taken. The prosecutrix

produced the SD Card Ext.P4 before the police, which was

sealed in the cloth parcel Ext.P2 with three seals of seal

impression "U" and seal impression "U" was taken on a piece of

cloth, Ext.PW4/A and DVD Ext.P6 was put into the cloth parcel

Ext.P5 and the parcels were seized vide seizure memo

Ext.PW1/C. Statement of the prosecutrix Ext.PW1/B under 7 section 164 Cr. P.C. was got recorded on 25.11.2016 before the

court of learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Palampur

and then, Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code was added in

the present case. 11 The appellant produced his mobile phone Ext.P8

before the police on 6.12.2016 and the same was sealed in a

cloth parcel Ext. P7 with five seals of seal impression "A" and

seal impression "A" was taken on the piece of cloth Ext.PW3/A

and the cloth parcel Ext. P7 was seized vide seizure memo

Ext.PW3/B. The appellant was arrested on 6.12.2016 at about

12.45 P.M. Medical examination of the appellant was got

conducted at Civil Hospital, Palampur and his Medico Legal

Certificate Ext.PW17/B was obtained. 12 On 8.12.2016, the appellant in presence of witnesses

made disclosure statement Ext.PW6/A under Section 27 of the

Indian Evidence Act and pursuant thereto, got identified the

room in Hotel Moon Light at Palampur, where he had taken the

prosecutrix during the last week of September or first week of

October and made her video/picture in his mobile phone. The

spot map Ext.PW16/E was also prepared. The abstract of visitor

register Ext.PW8/A was obtained vide which it was confirmed

that on 22.10.2016, the appellant along with another person 8 had stayed in room No.717 of Hotel Moon Light, Palampur. The

prosecutrix also produced SD/memory card Ext.P4 containing

her obscene video/picture before the police, which was sealed in

cloth parcel Ext.P1 and then, taken into police possession vide

seizure memo Ext. PW1/C. The SD card Ext.P4, mobile phone

Ext.P8 of the appellant and photographs of the appellant and

prosecutrix were sent to RFSL Dharamshala and report

Ext.PW16/F was obtained. The porn video clips were not found

to be physically present in the extracted data of memory card

marked as Q-1. The video clips were analyzed and the relevant

photograph prints were prepared. The prints were then

compared with the supplied standard photographs. The

comparison of facial features facial indices and superimposition

test was done and accordingly, the appellant was identified in

the alleged photos and video. 13 Further case of the prosecution is that the appellant

after committing the offence went to Delhi, where he destroyed

the indecent film/video and picture containing in his mobile

phone. He also destroyed the memory card of his mobile phone

in order to cause disappearance of the evidence of commission

of the offence. 14 On conclusion of the investigation, on the basis of

material so collected during investigation, on 6.9.2018, the

appellant was charge-sheeted as under:- 15 The appellant pleaded not guilty and claimed to be

tried. 16 The State also filed an application under Section 216 Cr.P.C. for amending/addition of the charge, which application

was allowed vide order dated 5.9.2018 and the previous charge

so framed was amended and Sections 328 and 201 of the Indian

Penal Code were added in the charge, to which also, the

appellant pleaded not guilty and claimed tried. 11 17 In order to prove its case, the prosecution examined

as many as 17 witnesses, which can conveniently be divided

into four categories, which are enumerated as under:- 18 Thereafter, the statement of the appellant was

recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C., wherein he claimed himself

to be an innocent, however he did not lead any evidence in

defence. 19 The learned trial court, after evaluating the oral as

well as documentary evidence convicted and sentenced the

appellant, as aforesaid and hence, the instant appeal.

20 It is vehemently argued by Mr. Ajay Kochhar,

learned Senior Advocate assisted by Mr. Vivek Sharma,

Advocate, for the appellant, that there is inordinate delay in 12 lodging the FIR in the case at hand and in case, the evidence of

the prosecution is analyzed and evaluated, it would be noticed

that the findings as recorded by the learned trial court are

totally perverse as no case of conviction whatsoever is made out

and the prosecutrix cannot be held to be sterling witness so as

to place any reliance on her testimony. That apart, her

testimony is clearly belied by what can be seen and observed in

SD card, Ext. P4. 21 On the other hand, Mr. Yashwardhan Chauhan,

learned Senior Additional Advocate General assisted by Mr. J. S.

Guleria, learned Deputy Advocate General, would argue that the

learned trial court has painstakingly discussed each and every

aspect of the case, more particularly, oral as well documentary

evidence that has come on record and it is only thereafter that

the appellant has been convicted and sentenced and in such

circumstances, no interference is warranted.

22 We have heard the learned counsel for the parties

and have also gone through the records of the case.

23 At the outset, it needs to be observed that rape is

the most morally and physically reprehensible crime in a

society, as it is an assault on the body, mind and privacy of the

victim. While a murderer destroys the physical frame of the 13 victim, a rapist degrades and defiles the soul of a helpless

female. Rape reduces a woman to an animal, as it shakes the

very core of her life. By no means can a rape victim be called an

accomplice. Rape leaves a permanent scar on the life of the

victim, and therefore a rape victim is placed on a higher

pedestal than an injured witness. 24 Rape is the most hated crime, which tantamounts to

a serious blow to the supreme honour of a woman, and offends

both, her esteem and dignity. It causes psychological and

physical harm to the victim, leaving upon her indelible marks.

Gang rape is all the more a serious and heinous offence.

25 The committal of rape is a beastly act and takes out

the life from the life of victim. The scars of rape always remain

engraved in her mind and she cannot overcome throughout her

life. Rape leaves physical as well as mental scars on the victim.

Physical wounds may heal up, but the mental scars, though

less visible are more difficult to treat. 26 Rape is a crime not against an individual but a

crime which destroys the basic equilibrium of the social

atmosphere. "Rape" not only lowers the dignity of a woman but

also mars her reputation. The plight of the woman and shock

suffered by the victim can be well visualized. The victim of rape 14 grows with traumatic experience and an unforgettable shame

haunted by the memory of the disaster forcing her to a state of

terrifying melancholia. The torment on the victim has the

potentiality to corrode the poise and equanimity of any civilized

society. It has been rightly said that whereas a murderer

destroys the physical frame of a victim, a rapist degrades and

defiles the soul of a helpless female. The offence of "Rape" is

grave by its nature, which warrants a strong deterrent by

judicial hand. 27 In State of Punjab vs. Ramdev Singh , AIR 2004

SC 1290, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under:- 28 In Jugendra Singh Vs. State of UP , (2012) 6 SCC

297, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held:- 29 In Shyam Narian Vs. The State of NCT Delhi ,

(2013) 7 SCC 77, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has elaborately

dealt with the issue as discussed in Madan Gopal Kaakar Vs.

Naval Dubey and Anr. , ( 1992) 3 SCC 204, State of Andhra

Pradesh Vs. Bodem Sundra Rao , AIR 1996 SC 530 and 16 State of Karnataka Vs. Krishnappa , (2000) 4 SCC 75 and

has held that : 30 Equally settled is the proposition of law that

conviction can be based on the sole testimony of the victim of

sexual assault without corroboration from any other evidence.

The statement of the victim is more reliable than any other

witness. Where the testimony of victim of sexual assault instills

the confidence in court, the same can be relied upon for

conviction of the accused. It is also a well settled principle of

law that corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the

testimony of the victim is not a requirement of law but a

guidance to prudence under the given circumstances.

31 In Vijay @ Chinee vs. State of Madhya Pradesh ,

(2010) 8 SCC 191, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has dealt with

the issue and held that : 32 There are catena of judgments passed by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court wherein it has been held that only the

deposition of the prosecutrix by itself is also sufficient to record

conviction for the offence of rape if that testimony inspires

confidence and has complete link of truth. 33 In Md. Ali Vs. State of UP , 2015 (3) SCALE 274,

the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that "Be it noted, there

can be no iota of doubt that on the basis of the sole testimony

of the victim, if it is unimpeachable and beyond reproach, a

conviction can be based and in Mohd. Iqbal v. State of

Jharkhand reported in (2013) 14 SCC 481, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has held that "there is no prohibition in law to

convict the accused of rape on the basis of sole testimony of the

victim and the law does not require that her statement be

corroborated by the statements of other witnesses".

34 Minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies

should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable

prosecution case. A victim complaining of having been a victim

of the offence of rape is not an accomplice after the crime. Her 18 testimony has to be appreciated on the principle of probabilities

just as the testimony of any other witness; a high degree of

probability having been shown to exist in view of the subject

matter being a criminal charge. However, if the court finds it

difficult to accept the version of the victim on its face value, it

may search for evidence, direct or substantial, which may lend

assurance to her testimony. 35 After all, the Court cannot overlook where the victim

or a girl is subjected to sexual assault, she is not accomplice to

the crime, but is victim of another's lust. 36 The prosecutrix appeared as PW1 and stated that

she was student of B.Sc 3rd Semester and had taken admission

in college in the year 2016. Her friends Neha and Bobby had

introduced her to the appellant when he had come with them to

the college. Thereafter, the appellant started visiting her college

frequently with Bobby and persuaded Bobby to impress upon

her to make friend with the appellant. Bobby instead of talking

to her had given her mobile number to the appellant. She came

to know about this fact when the appellant called her. She then

asked the appellant as to from whom he had procured her

mobile number and then he told her that he got mobile number

from Bobby. 37 On the next day, she complained to Bobby regarding

calls made by the appellant and asked him why he had given

her number to appellant as he was harassing her by making

repeated calls. Then Bobby warned the appellant and asked him

not to make calls to her. She however did not remember the

mobile number of the appellant from which he used to call her,

but stated that the appellant used to make calls on her mobile

number 98183-32905. On the next day, the appellant again

came to her college and angrily asked her as to when had he

made calls and harassed her. Thereafter, for some days, the

appellant did not make calls, but, after about one week, he

again made a call to her and said that his brother along with his

girl friend was going on a tour and asked her to accompany

him, but she told him as to why she should accompany him and

asked the accused not to make calls as she was busy with her

house test examination. 38 The appellant after some days started following her

in the college and told her that he was going back to Delhi. He

also told her that he was employed as Sub Inspector in Delhi

Police and that he would not do any wrong with her. The

appellant asked her to talk to him for the last time. The

appellant told her that he liked her and wanted to marry her, 20 therefore, he was intending to talk with her. She in turn told

him that she was not interested in him and therefore, she did

not want to marry him. 39 The prosecutrix further stated that on 20.10.2016,

the appellant had followed her throughout the day and when

she came after giving her examination, the appellant followed

and asked her to talk with him and told that he was going back

to Delhi. Thereafter, the appellant on the pretext of talking to

her, took her to Moonlight Hotel, Palampur at about 1.00/1.30

p.m., where he alongwith snacks offered her cold drinks and

told her not to afraid of him. On the assurance of the appellant,

she had the cold drink and after having it, became semi

unconscious. The appellant thereafter removed her clothes and

when she was in underwear only, then he made her sit on the

bed. Thereafter, the appellant started video graphing her and

while he was doing so, in that condition she resisted 3-4 times

and tried to hit his hand but he paid no attention to her.

Thereafter, he forced her for oral sex and sexual intercourse.

When she regained consciousness, she put her clothes and

thereafter came out from the said hotel. The appellant left her at

the Bus Stand and thereafter, she went to her house. When she

boarded bus she was feeling giddiness. On reaching home, she 21 did not disclose about the incident to anyone in her family as

she was under the impression as to what her family would think

about her. 40 On the next day, the appellant again made a call on

her mobile and told that he had made her nude video as he had

a bet with his friends qua making the same. He further asked

her to pay him Rs.20,000/- or else, he would disseminate her

video to her friends. She requested the appellant to delete her

photos and videos and requested him not to insist payment of

Rs.20,000/- as she was without job and said that whenever

she would get job she would pay him Rs.20,000/- and

requested him to delete her pictures and videos. Thereafter, the

appellant continued to make calls to her daily and started

blackmailing her. He threatened her to pay Rs.20,000/- failing

which, he would disseminate the alleged photos and videos. Due

to daily blackmailing and threatening of the appellant, she

stopped using said sim and also stopped going to the college.

41 On 9th November, 2016, when the prosecutrix had

gone to the college, then her friends told about her photos

and video having been leaked by the appellant to her friends.

On her request, her friends deleted the alleged videos and

pictures, yet photos and videos got viral. 42 It was then that on 23.11.2016, the prosecutrix

disclosed about the incident to her grandfather, who

accompanied her to Police Post Thural , where the police

officials gave her pen and paper and asked her to give in writing

her complaint. She accordingly wrote an application Ex. PW-

1/A. The police of Police Post, Thural did not conduct any

inquiry or investigation on her application and informed her

that since the case pertained to Police Station, Palampur, she

should report the matter there. She was called by the police of

Police Station Palampur on 25.11.2016, where she got recorded

her statement. Thereafter, her statement under Section 164 Cr.

P.C. was recorded before the Magistrate. She had narrated the

entire incident before the Magistrate in her statement. After

recording her statement Ext. PW-1/B, it was read over by the

Magistrate to her and then she signed it in red circles.

43 Thereafter, the police took the prosecutrix to

Moonlight Hotel, where she got identified the room, where the

appellant had committed wrong acts with her and videographed

her. The police officials had clicked photographs of said room,

mark "A-1 to A-3" and had also prepared spot map.

44 The prosecutrix further deposed the police officials

asked her to hand over said pictures and videos to them. She 23 handed over micro SD Card containing alleged pictures and

videos to the police on 7.12.2016. The police had sealed Micro

SD Card in a packet and took the same into possession vide

memo, Ex. PW-1/C. She further stated that at that time, her

brother Vishal Kotach and other police officials were also there.

She identified Micro SD Card in the court, which had been

handed over by her to the police. The contents of videos in the

SD Card were thereafter played in the court and the

prosecutrix acknowledged those photos to be the same which

had been produced by her before the police. She also indentified

her signatures on the parcel containing SD card. She also

identified her three photographs PH-1, PH-2 & Ex. PH-3, yellow

envelope Ex. P-1 and five photographs of the appellant Ex. PH-4

to Ex. PH-8. She identified the appellant in the court.

45 The prosecutrix further stated that on 8.12.2016,

she was again taken by the police to concerned Magistrate,

where her statement, Ext. PW1/D was again recorded. Later on,

she came to know that the real name of appellant to be Ashish.

The appellant had spoiled her life by doing this act.

46 She further deposed that the father and maternal

grandfather of the appellant had tried to pressurize her and her

family to withdraw the present case. In fact, maternal 24 grandfather of appellant had visited her house 3-4 days before

and offered her money. He had further told them that before

this incident, the appellant had been involved in similar offence

and even at that time, they had screened the appellant by

paying money and the case was closed. Thereafter, DVD Ex. P-6

was produced, but the same was found to be neither readable

nor any containing DATA. 47 On being cross-examined, the prosecutrix admitted

the application, Ext. PW1/A to be written by her and

submitted at P.P. Thural. However, she denied that the police

officials at Thural had first seen the videos and pictures and

thereafter got application submitted. She stated that she had

not taken her mobile phone to Police Post Thural. She did not

remember number of the mobile, which was being used by her

on 23.11.2016 and the place from where, she had purchased

sim. She was not in a position to tell the name of company of

sim card whether it was BSNL, Airtel etc. She voluntarily stated

that sim was changed by her. She admitted that she did not

have the same mobile, which she had been using on 20.10.2016

as mobile had broken after she lodged the present case. She

admitted that her mobile was not taken into possession by the

police. She stated that she had told the police that Neha had 25 also introduced her to appellant alongwith Bobby. Neha was

also studying in her college. Bobby was resident of Sai, while

Neha was resident of Thural. She denied the suggestion that

Neha did not know the appellant and she had never introduced

her to the appellant. She further denied that she had never

told the police that Neha had also introduced her to the

appellant, but was confronted with the previous statement

recorded under Section 161 Cr. P.C., wherein, it was not so

recorded. She voluntarily stated that Bobby was friend of Neha

and both Bobby and Neha were present together, when they

introduced her to the appellant. She stated that she had seen

the video and photos on 9th November when her friends Shagun,

Shiwani and Sahil etc told her that the same were there in their

mobiles. She further stated that the videos and photos were

sent to her mobile by her friend Rakesh. She admitted that she

had not told the police that she had seen the photos and videos

on 9.11.2016. She further admitted that she had not told the

police regarding the name of Rakesh, but had told that one of

her friends had sent the photos and videos to her. She stated

that the police had not asked her about her friend who had sent

the messages regarding videos and pictures. She further

deposed that S.D. card Ex. P-4 was given to her by one of her 26 friends, Rajat, but did not know about company of SD Card.

She further stated that SD Card Ex. P-4 earlier contained DATA

of Rajat, which was deleted it was given to her. She denied

that appellant had never told her that he was working in Delhi

Police. She stated that the appellant had brought cold drink and

Namkeen from outside the hotel. She stated that she had not

told the police that the appellant had brought cold drink from a

shop. She denied that she had made a concocted story that the

appellant had offered her a drink and after having it, she had

become unconscious. She specifically stated that she had gone

to Hotel Moonlight thrice. She voluntarily stated that she visited

the hotel twice with the appellant and once with the police, but

did not remember the date when she had gone to Moonlight

hotel before 20.10.2016. She admitted that her naked pictures

were clicked when she had gone to Moonlight hotel for the first

time. The trial court then asked the question "Who had taken

your pictures at that time? and she answered that "accused had

taken my naked pictures at that time and we both were there

alone". 48 She admitted that she had neither reported the

aforesaid fact to the police nor the Magistrate, but voluntarily

stated that later on, when she reported the matter to the police, 27 she had mentioned about both videos as well as photos. She

denied that she had stated in the court that she had met the

appellant for the first time on 20.10.2016. She admitted that

she had not stated in the court that before 20.10.2016, she had

met the appellant in the Moonlight hotel. She denied that she

did not have any objection about making of vulgar video and

pictures, but had objected to the same being leaked. She denied

that she had been talking whole of the time with the appellant

at the time when the video was being made. She voluntarily

stated that she was asking the appellant not to make her video

and stop making it and switch off the mobile. She denied that

she was asking the person making the video as to whether he

would show this video to someone else. She voluntarily stated

that the video was being made by the appellant and he was

telling her that he was making it for himself and would show it

to any one, therefore, she asked him whether he would not

show it to anyone because he had told her to trust him. She

further voluntarily stated that she had not made any video with

anyone, but the appellant had made her video. She denied that

the boy was saying her video was made earlier also. She

voluntarily stated that it was that time only that the video was

made twice. She denied the suggestion that she had oral sex 28 out of her own free will. She voluntarily stated that the

appellant had told her that he was interested only in oral sex

and he had got it done forcibly by holding her head and hair.

The defence counsel then asked the question "That person said

that he would count three and put his clothes". However, the

question was disallowed being ambiguous on the ground that

the prosecutrix had earlier stated that it was the appellant, who

was making her video and no other person was there. She

admitted that the words "after counting three, she would wear

the clothes", were there in the video in the SD Card. She did not

remember that after counting 1 & 2, she had signalled to stop

and started laughing. She denied that she smiled and said that

she did not want sex. She voluntarily stated that she had said

that she did not want sex. She admitted that in the video she

had asked the appellant to swear by his mother that he would

not disclose it to anyone. She voluntarily stated that the person

was the appellant. She denied that she was saying in the video

that earlier also nude photos were made and that from today,

nothing would happen. She feigned ignorance regarding

duration of video to be of 2 minutes and 45 seconds. She

further denied that she had made a false statement that her

vulgar pictures and videos were made by the appellant. She 29 denied that she was habitual of making such pictures and

videos herself. She denied that the aforesaid video in the SD

card was actually made from her mobile. She denied that she

alongwith her family members and in connivance with the police

had destroyed her mobile. She also denied that Rajat had not

transferred the alleged video to her mobile. She denied that the

video was already in her mobile and she had not seen the video

for the first time on 20.10.2016. She denied that the appellant

had not blackmailed and threatened her to leak the alleged

video and pictures and also that he had not demanded

Rs.20,000/-. She denied that the appellant did not threaten her

to do forcible oral sex and sex with her. She denied that the

S.D. card had been tampered with and due to this reason, she

did not produce her mobile. She denied that the father and

maternal grandfather of the appellant had not visited her house

and had forced her to withdraw the case against the appellant.

She however admitted that she was having two mobile numbers

at that time, out of which, one she had already told and other

mobile number she did not remember. She denied that she in

connivance with the police officials had filed false case against

the appellant. 49 PW2 Pritam Singh is grandfather of the prosecutrix

and his testimony is that of hearsay and therefore, not of much

relevance as he has only deposed what was disclosed by the

prosecutrix to him and has only proved handing over

application, Ext.PW1/A to the police officials.

50 PW3 HC Sandeep Kumar stated that on 6.12.2016,

he along with HHC Om Prakash was associated in the

investigation by the Investigating Officer and in their presence,

the appellant had produced one Samsung Duos Model phone

along with sim before the police. The mobile was wrapped in a

cardboard and then sealed in a cloth parcel by affixing five seals

of seal impression "A". He also identified the mobile phone in

the Court. 51 On being cross-examined, this witness admitted that

the Investigating Officer had not checked contents of the mobile

in his presence. He further admitted that the Investigating

Officer had not recorded statement of the appellant under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act in his presence.

52 PW4 LHC Anjana stated that on 7.12.2016, the

prosecutrix had produced one sim micro SD card 2 GB before

the Investigating Officer stating that it was containing her

obscene videos prepared by the appellant. The Micros S.D. card 31 was thereafter taken into possession and identified by her in the

court. 53 On being cross-examined, this witness stated that

S.D. card, Ext. P4 was produced by the prosecutrix by taking it

out from her mobile phone. 54 PW5 Vishal Katoch is cousin brother of the

prosecutrix and stated that he had received obscene video of

prosecutrix through his whatsapp group. He then disclosed

this fact to his parents and that of the prosecutrix. He stated

that it was in his presence that the prosecutrix produced one

S.D. card stating that it was containing her obscene videos

prepared by the appellant. He identified the S.D. card in the

court. 55 On being cross-examined, this witness admitted that

he had disclosed to the police that he had also received obscene

video of the prosecutrix through his Whatsapp group. He

further admitted that when he joined the investigation, at that

time the obscene video of the prosecutrix was already there in

his mobile. The police had not taken into possession his mobile.

He did not remember the date when he received the aforesaid

obscene video in his mobile. He also did not remember the date

on which he had disclosed about the aforesaid video to his 32 parents. He voluntarily stated that he had informed them

telephonically. He admitted that whenever a message is

received through Whatsapp, it reflects the name and the

number of the sender, but did not remember the name of

sender as there were more than 150 members in the group. He

admitted that SD card, Ext. P4 was produced by the

prosecutrix by taking it out from her mobile phone, but did not

know whether the mobile phone of the prosecutrix was also

taken into possession by the police. 56 PW6 HC Ashok Kumar deposed regarding the

disclosure statement having been made by the appellant in

police custody to the effect that he could get Hotel Moon Light

demarcated where he had made obscene video of the

prosecutrix in the last week of September or first week of

October 2016, which was reduced into writing vide memo, ext.

PW6/A.

57 In cross-examination, he denied having gone to Hotel

Moonlight with the Investigating Officer prior to disclosure

statement of the appellant. 58 PW7 Piar Chand was working as Cook in Hotel

Moonlight at the relevant time. He deposed that he did not

remember as to whether the police had come to the hotel with 33 one boy, who in custody had given identification of Room No.

717 to the police and disclosed that he had stayed there. He

was declared hostile and was cross-examined by the learned

Public Prosecutor. He admitted his signatures on Ext. PW7/Am

however he denied presence of the appellant in the hotel.

59 On being cross-examined by the learned defence

counsel, this witness stated that he had seen the appellant for

the first time in the court on that day. 60 PW8 Ramesh Chand was working as a Manager in

Hotel Moonlight at the relevant time and stated that he had

brought original entry of the hotel register and proved the

abstract thereof as Ex. PW-8/A, which showed that on

22.10.2016, the appellant had stayed in Room No. 717 of the

hotel from 12.35 p.m. to 2.00 p.m. alongwith the girl, but he

was not in a position to identify the appellant in the court. He

voluntarily stated that since many persons used to stay in his

hotel, therefore, it was difficult for him to identify every visitor.

He further deposed that he used to enter mobile number of

every visitor in the register, but did not mention the mobile

number of the appellant as he told him that now-a-days he was

residing in Delhi and he did not have any mobile number. He

also stated that his statement was not recorded by the police as 34 he had gone to Shimla. He voluntarily stated that he had gone

to Shimla in the month of August or September.

61 At this stage, this witness was declared hostile and

permitted to be cross-examined by the learned Public

Prosecutor. In his cross-examination, he admitted that during

January, 2017, he was present in the Hotel. He denied that his

statement was recorded on 5.1.2017. He also denied that he

had disclosed to the police that the appellant used to visit his

hotel individually or with his relatives. He denied that he knew

the appellant before 22.10.2016. He denied that the appellant

had disclosed on 22.10.2016 while booking room that he had

come from Delhi for the test/examination of his relative girl,

who was with him at that time. He voluntarily stated that the

appellant had told that the girl with him was his sister and after

having bath etc., they would vacate the room.

62 In cross-examination by the defence counsel, this

witness admitted that there was cutting in abstract Ex. PW- 8/A

of the room number and number of persons. He voluntarily

stated that the cutting was done because the appellant was

shifted to that room later on. He admitted that there were

signatures of the girl in Ex. PW-8/A in red circle "A". He also

admitted that the signatures in the statement of PW1 were 35 different from those in red circle "A". He admitted that the

appellant had not been got identified from him. He voluntarily

stated that he was at Shimla. He denied that Ex. PW-8/A was

prepared later on. 63 PW9 HHG Neeraj Kumar proved on record taking of

samples to RFSL Dharamshala on 12.12.2016 and after

handing over the same vide Ext. PW9/A on the same day,

returning the R.C. to MHC. 64 PW10 Vivek Sharma was the erstwhile Manager of

Moonlight Hotel, who stated that in December, 2016, police had

visited the Hotel alongwith boy, girl and 2-3 other persons.

They had seen Room No. 717 of Hotel and qua which, document

Ex. PW-10/A was prepared, which bore his signatures in red

circle. The police had asked him to produce entry register. He

had shown them the entry register, which was with him, but the

police had asked him to produce earlier register, which was not

with him at that time. He voluntarily stated that the same had

been deposited in the office. He stated that besides him, Piar

Chand Cook had also signed memo Ex. PW-10/A. He did not

know the name of boy written in memo, Ex.PW-10/A, upon

which he was declared hostile. 65 On being cross-examined by the learned Public

Prosecutor, this witness admitted that on 8.12.2016, the police

had brought the appellant, who had identified Room No. 717 to

the police in his presence and witness Piar Chand to be the

same room where he had stayed with the girl. He admitted that

the police had clicked photographs of Room No. 717 mark A-1

to mark A-3. He also admitted that the police had prepared

document Ex. PW-10/A qua demarcation of room and

photographs etc.

66 On being cross-examined by the learned defence

counsel, this witness admitted that when the police had come,

then the grandfather of the girl had also come there with girl.

The police had visited the hotel once on 8.12.2016. He feigned

ignorance regarding photographs of the boy and girl being

taken. He admitted that he was told by the police itself that

they had brought the girl in the aforesaid room.

67 PW11 LC Reema Devi stated that on 24.11.2016, she

entered FIR No. 22/2016 under Section 354-A(1) IPC and 67 of I.T. Act in computer, which was functioning properly and

uninterrupted. In this regard, she had issued a certificate, Ext.

PW11/A. 37 68 In her cross-examination, she denied that the

computer was not working properly at the time when she had

recorded the entry. 69 PW12 HC Shailender stated that on 6.12.2016, the

Investigating Officer had deposited one parcel stated to be

containing a mobile phone and on 7.12.2016 another parcel

stated to be containing memory/SD card. He had made the

entries in the Malkhana Register. He further stated that on

12.12.2016, he had sent the aforesaid parcels alongwith sample

seals and one envelope, containing photographs of the

appellant and the prosecutrix to RFSL Dharamshala vide RC

No. 2294/16 dated 12.12.2016 through HHG Neeraj and

handed over the receipt Ex. PW-12/C after depositing the same

at RFSL Dharamshala. 70 On being cross-examined, this witness denied that

neither any mobile was deposited nor he had sent the same to

RFSL Dharamshala. 71 PW13 HHC Jaimal Singh stated that he had brought

the case property alongwith result of RFSL and handed over the

same to MHC. The case property was stated to be consisting of

one Mobile Phone and one SD Card, which were packed in a 38 yellow carry bag and another sealed parcel containing one DVD

in an envelope. 72 On being cross-examined, this witness admitted that

whenever, a police official leaves the police Station for duty, the

record is maintained at Police Station, wherein date and time of

departure and arrival is also mentioned. However, he denied

that he had not brought any case property related to this case

as stated above. He also denied that he had never handed over

the case property to MHC. 73 PW14 Surjeet Singh is the photographer, who stated

that he had developed photographs of this case, which were

clicked by the police officials on his mobile phone. After

developing the photographs, he handed over the same to the

police. He had also issued certificate Ex. PW-14/A and

identified photographs mark A-1 to A-3 to be the same that

were developed by him. Alongwith these photographs, he

admitted that he also developed photographs of a boy and a girl

in different poses. 74 On being cross-examined, this witness admitted

that he was not aware of Section 65(b) of I.T. Act. He further

admitted that whenever he would develop the photographs, he 39 would issue the cash memo, however he had not issued any bill

pertaining to this case. 75 PW15 ASI Prem Pal, stated that on 23.11.2016,

while he was on patrolling duty at Place Balh Bhuria, the

prosecutrix had submitted an application, Ext. PW1/A to him,

on which he had made an endorsement, Ext. PW15/A.

76 In cross-examination, this witness denied that he

had not investigated the matter after getting the application. He

voluntarily stated that he had sent the ruka to Police Station

Palampur for investigation. 77 PW16 Inspector Gurbachan Singh, is the

Investigating Officer, who proved on record receipt of application

Ex.PW-1/A, on the basis of which FIR EX.PW16/A came to be

registered at police station Palampur and claimed that both FIR

and ruka were signed by him. He further deposed that on

25.11.2016, he had visited the spot and prepared spot map

Ex.PW-16/C and taken photographs Ex.PW16/D1 to Ex.PW-

16/D3 of the spot. He got statement of the prosecutrix recorded

under Section 164 Cr.P.C before the Judicial Magistrate and

also recorded statements of some of the witnesses. The

appellant had made a disclosure statement before the police

Ex.PW-6/A in the presence of PWs HHC Anil Walia and HC 40 Ashok Kumar regarding identification of Hotel, where he had

committed the offence. He further deposed that on 8.12.2016,

the appellant was taken in custody, and he identified the Hotel

Moonlight Palampur where in the month of September/October,

he had committed the offence of recording the porn video in

room No.717 of Hotel. 78 Earlier to that on 06.12.2016, he took into

possession one Samsung mobile phone from the appellant as

the alleged videography was done from that mobile. The mobile

was kept in a cloth parcel and sealed with five seal impressions

of seal 'A' and thereafter taken into possession vide memo

Ex.PW-3/B, which bore his signatures and that of appellant

and witnesses HHC Om Parkash and HC Sandeep Kumar. The

specimen seal impression was Ex.PW-3/A.

79 The witness further deposed that on 7.12.2016, the

prosecutrix had handed over a micro SD card 2 GB, which was

taken into possession vide seizure memo Ex.PW-1/C, which was

signed by prosecutrix, witnesses HC Anjana, ASI Pushp Raj and

Vishal Katoch and sealed with seal impression, Ex.PW-4/A. He

identified all these items in the court and thereafter stated that

the medical examination of the appellant was got conducted on

06.12.2016 at C.H. Palampur. 80 The witness further deposed that during

investigation, he had also taken into possession abstract of

Moon Light Hotel visiting register Ex.PW-8/A and after

obtaining copy of result of RFSL Dharamshala Ex.PW-16//F,

the same was tagged in the case file. Alongwith report, one DVD

Ex.P6 was also received from RFSL Dharamshala. The

statements of witnesses Vivek Sharma, Piar Chand and Ramesh

Chand Ext.PW16/G1 to Ex.PW-16/G3 respectively were

recorded. He had also recorded statements of other witnesses

and after completion of investigation, he had prepared the

challan in the present case and submitted the same before the

Court. 81 On being cross-examined, this witness stated that

he had associated the prosecutrix in the investigation on

25.11.2016 and she had produced evidence in support of her

case and had handed over the SD card. He had also taken out

the call details of the appellant to prove that the appellant had

been calling the prosecutrix on a particular phone number from

his mobile. However, he admitted that he had not appended

aforesaid call details with the case file. He could not recollect

the phone numbers of prosecutrix and the appellant and the

dates on which the calls had been made. 82 This witness admitted that he had not seen the porn

video qua which the complaint was made by the prosecutrix.

He was not in a position to tell whether it was through

Whatsapp or any other medium by which the aforesaid video

had become viral. He denied the suggestion that he had

deliberately not taken into possession the mobile phone of the

prosecutrix and voluntarily stated that since the prosecutrix

had given the SD card, therefore, he did not find it necessary to

take into possession her mobile phone. He admitted that

seizure memo of the SD card was prepared on 07.12.2016.

83 He further stated that he had no knowledge that

whenever a video is sent to other mobile then the mobile

number of the phone, from which the video is sent, is also

shown on the other mobile. He admitted that on 07.12.2016

when the SD card was given by the prosecutrix to him, her

cousin Vishal Katoch was also present there. However, he did

not remember that Vishal Katoch had also disclosed that the

aforesaid porn video was also transmitted to his mobile. He

admitted that he had not taken into possession mobile phone of

Vishal Katoch. He stated that he had not asked the RFSL

Dharamshala as to whether there were chances of aforesaid SD

card Ex.P4 being tampered one. He voluntarily stated that he 43 did not find it necessary because the SD card was not tampered

one. He denied that SD card Ex.P4 did not belong to prosecutrix

or that the same was belonged to her friend, namely, Rajat. He

admitted that at the time when the appellant had been

arrested, the SD card had not been taken into possession.

84 The witness further admitted that it had come in his

investigation that some of the friends of prosecutrix, namely,

Neha and Bobby had told her about video becoming viral. He

did not remember as to when he had associated the friends of

prosecutrix in the investigation. He could not tell that whether

he had investigated about the fact as to from which mobile and

by which medium the friends of prosecutrix had received the

video, which had gone viral. 85 He further admitted that it had come in his

investigation that the video was not prepared in Ex.P4. He

voluntarily stated that he had included section 201 IPC in the

case as the original SD card in which the video was prepared

had been destroyed. He stated that he was not in a position to

tell as to from which mobile the video had come in the SD card

Ex.P4. He denied that that the viral video was actually prepared

by the prosecutrix herself on her mobile. He denied that if he

would have taken the mobile of prosecutrix in possession then it 44 would have come out that the video had been prepared by the

prosecutrix herself and that was why he had not taken into

possession mobile of the prosecutrix. 86 The witness further stated that he did not

remember, but as per his knowledge, the prosecutrix had gone

only once to Moon Light Hotel during the commission of offence.

He further stated that there was proof on record that the

prosecutrix was forced to sexual intercourse by way of oral

evidence of the prosecutrix and her photographs and the DVD.

He denied that there was no evidence in the DVD and SD card

that prosecutrix was unconscious and there was forcible sexual

intercourse with the prosecutrix. He however admitted that he

had not obtained any voice sample of the appellant. He further

stated that it had not come in his investigation that before going

to the Hotel, prosecutrix was unconscious. He denied that he

had prepared the disclosure statement of the appellant, Ex.PW-

6/A falsely and no demarcation was given by the appellant. He

denied that the site plan Ex.PW16/E had been falsely prepared.

However, he admitted that he had visited the Moon Light Hotel

on 25.11.2016. He denied that the site plan Ex.PW16/E had

been falsely prepared. He denied that he had recorded the 45 statements of witnesses Ex.PW-16/G1 to Ex.PW-16/G3 of his

own. 87 PW17 Dr. Umesh Kashyap deposed that he had

examined the appellant and certified that he was capable of

doing sexual intercourse in normal course. 88 This in entirety is prosecution case. 89 It is vehemently argued by Mr. Ajay Kochhar,

learned Senior Advocate assisted by Mr. Vivek Sharma,

Advocate, that the there is huge delay in lodging the FIR and,

therefore, possibility of interpolation cannot be ruled out and

the case of the prosecution, more particularly, statement of the

prosecutrix has to be taken with pinch of salt. According to

him, chronological events of the case are as follow:- 90 In our considered view, the delay has to be

considered in the back ground of the facts and circumstances of 46 each case and is a matter of appreciation of evidence. It is well

settled that the delay in registering FIR cannot by itself be a

ground to doubt the case of the prosecution. 91 In cases of delay, the Courts are required to examine

the evidence with a close scrutiny and in doing so; the contents

of the FIR should also be scrutinized more carefully. If Court

finds that there is no indication of fabrication or it has not been

concocted or engineered to implicate innocent persons then,

even if there is a delay in lodging the FIR, the case of the

prosecution cannot be dismissed merely on that ground. The

disinclination to inform the family or report the matter to the

police might be due to apprehension and attitude of the society

towards the victim. Therefore, the delay in lodging the complaint

in such cases does not necessarily indicate that her version is

false. 92 However, in the instant case, it needs to be noticed

that the prosecutrix is alleged to have been sexually assaulted

and the alleged video made on 20.10.2016 and she is alleged to

have come know about the obscene video/photographs being

uploaded and made viral on 9.11.2016, which allegations

ultimately have been found to be false. 93 In such circumstances, an inordinate and

unexplained delay in registering FIR does cast a cloud of

suspicion regarding the credibility of the prosecution story when

read with the testimony of the victim, medical evidence and all

other evidence led by the prosecution. The inordinate delay in

registration of FIR and the time and opportunities which the

victim had, to report the matter to the police or any other

person by raising an alarm when she was forced to undergo the

trauma of rape is unexplainable. 94 It is here that the requirement of the testimony of

the victim being credit worthy to be termed as sterling witness

whose version can be accepted without corroboration steps in. It

is here that the version of the victim on the core spectrum of the

crime should remain intact while all other attendant materials,

namely, oral, documentary and material objects should match

the said version in material particulars in order to enable the

Court trying the offence to rely on the core version to sieve the

other supporting materials for holding the offender guilty of the

charge alleged. 95 In this background, it shall be fruitful to refer to the

following observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rai

Sandeep @ Deepu vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) (2012) 8 SCC 21:- 48 4/B in the hospital, whereas, Exhibit PW- 4/B states that
the recovery was at the place of occurrence. The police
stated to have apprehended the appellants at the instance
of Jitender (PW-11) who knew the appellant in Criminal
Appeal No.2486 of 2009 even prior to the incident, that
Jitender (PW-11) also revealed the name of the said
accused to her and that, therefore, she was able to name
him in her complaint. When the seized watch was shown
to her in the Court, the brand name of which was OMEX,
she stated that the said watch was not worn by her
nephew Jitender (PW-11) as it was stated to be 'TITAN'
and the chain was a gold chain having no pendant. She 49 made it clear that that was not the chain which she was
wearing and that it did not belong to her and that the
watch found in the same parcel which was a women's
watch was not the one which was worn by Jitender (PW- 11). 15. In our considered opinion, the 'sterling witness' should
be of a very high quality and caliber whose version
should, therefore, be unassailable. The Court considering
the version of such witness should be in a position to
accept it for its face value without any hesitation. To test
the quality of such a witness, the status of the witness
would be immaterial and what would be relevant is the
truthfulness of the statement made by such a witness.
What would be more relevant would be the consistency of
the statement right from the starting point till the end,
namely, at the time when the witness makes the initial
statement and ultimately before the Court. It should be
natural and consistent with the case of the prosecution
qua the accused. There should not be any prevarication in
the version of such a witness. The witness should be in a
position to withstand the cross- examination of any length
and howsoever strenuous it may be and under no
circumstance should give room for any doubt as to the
factum of the occurrence, the persons involved, as well as,
the sequence of it. Such a version should have co-relation
with each and everyone of other supporting material such
as the recoveries made, the weapons used, the manner of
offence committed, the scientific evidence and the expert
opinion. The said version should consistently match with
the version of every other witness. It can even be stated
that it should be akin to the test applied in the case of 50 circumstantial evidence where there should not be any
 missing link in the chain of circumstances to hold the
 accused guilty of the offence alleged against him. Only if
 the version of such a witness qualifies the above test as
 well as all other similar such tests to be applied, it can be
 held that such a witness can be called as a 'sterling
 witness' whose version can be accepted by the Court
 without any corroboration and based on which the guilty
 can be punished. To be more precise, the version of the
 said witness on the core spectrum of the crime should
 remain intact while all other attendant materials, namely,
 oral, documentary and material objects should match the
 said version in material particulars in order to enable the
 Court trying the offence to rely on the core version to sieve
 the other supporting materials for holding the offender
 guilty of the charge alleged. 96 As regards credit worthiness of the testimony of the

prosecutrix, it would be noticed that the initial version given by

her in her statement Ext. PW1/A, she had not alleged any act

constituting offence under Section 376 IPC and only stated that

the appellant had taken her to Moon Light Hotel and there, he

had taken off her clothes and when she had only underwear on

her body, then he clicked photographs and made a video, but

specifically stated that he did not commit any wrong act with

her as is evident from the following:- 97 Thereafter, the prosecutrix in her statement

recorded under Section 164 Cr. P.C., Ext. PW1/B had again

stated that the appellant had not committed any wrong or

sexual intercourse with her as is evident from the following:- 98 It was after the arrest of the appellant on 6.12.2016,

that the prosecution got another statement of the prosecutrix

recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. wherein allegations of oral

sex were made. 99 We really fail to understand and appreciate as to

where was the necessity of getting another statement recorded

under Section 164 Cr.P.C. when especially it was not recorded

for the purpose of elaborating the facts that had already been

stated by the prosecutrix in the earlier statement recorded

before the Magistrate and there is otherwise no explanation

placed on record by the prosecution as to what necessitated the

third statement inventing thereby entirely a different story, 52 which casts a serious doubt on the story now put-forth by the

prosecution. 100 Apart from above, different versions have been given

by the prosecutrix in her three statements and same therefore

have to be taken with pinch of salt and are suggestive of the fact

that she had suppressed the true facts and was otherwise

capable of inventing stories. 101 Why we observe so is because the prosecutrix in her

earlier version had stated that she was given some intoxicants

in the drink by the appellant before she was taken to Hotel

Moon Light, but in her statement recorded under Section 164 Cr. P.C. she changed her version by stating that the intoxicated

drink was given to her after she was taken to Moon Light Hotel.

Further there is no explanation on record that if the prosecutrix

was not consenting party, then what prompted her to go inside

the Hotel with the appellant, more particularly, in view of the

fact that she was major and capable of deciding what was right

or wrong for her. 102 Further, there is no explanation, as observed above,

as to why matter was reported belatedly on 23.11.2016

particularly when the prosecutrix had already come to know 53 about the alleged leakage of video on 9.11.2016, which story

has otherwise been proved to be totally false.

103 The present FIR was not spontaneous and appears

to have been lodged after long deliberations and consultation as

is evident from the fact that in the initial version given by the

prosecutrix herself there were no allegations of any sex, oral or

otherwise and this was not something which could have

escaped the mind of the prosecutrix if it was not consensual. It

goes a long way to establish that she was probably a

consenting party and that is why she did not report the matter.

This observation is further strengthened from the fact that the

prosecutrix herself had refused to undergo medical

examination. 104 Further, as per statement of the prosecutrix, she

had seen the alleged video and photographs in the mobile of her

friends, Shagun, Shivani and Sahil and photographs were also

claimed to have been sent to her by her friend Rakesh, but

surprising enough, none of these witnesses were ever associated

during the police investigation or examined in the Court.

105 It also needs to be noticed that the prosecutrix

neither gave her mobile to the police during investigation nor

disclosed the mobile numbers in her deposition, rather the 54 prosecutrix destroyed the mobile phone after registration of the

case as has been admitted by her in her statement. All these

facts collectively do probablize the defence of the appellant that

the video was made from the mobile of the prosecutrix herself

because even S.D. card, Ext. P4 containing alleged obscene

video was given by her after taking it out from her own mobile

phone as admitted, PW4 LHC Anjana, PW5 Vishal Katoch as

also PW16 Investigating Officer and above all by the prosecutrix

herself. 106 This fact assumes greater importance for the reason

that admittedly no obscene videos were found in the mobile of

the appellant, Ext.1 that was taken into possession vide memo,

Ext. PW3/A and in the report of RFSL, it has been specifically

concluded that no porn video/photograph was found in the

extracted data from the mobile phone, Ext.1.

107 We also find it rather strange as to why the

prosecutrix would claim and state that S.D. card did not belong

to her and had been given to her by her friend Rajat, which

statement is in contradiction with statements of PW4, PW5 and

PW16. That apart, even so called Rajat has neither been

associated nor examined by the prosecution. 55 108 Further, the fact that the prosecutrix visited the

Hotel in question with the appellant on 20.10.2016 has been

totally falsified by the entries, Ext. PW8/A, wherein date of

stay of the appellant is reflected as 22.10.2016. The version of

the prosecutrix that she had visited Hotel Moon Light with the

appellant only once is also belied by her in her statement before

the court where she admitted that she had gone twice to the

hotel with the appellant but could not tell the date as to when

she had gone to Moon Light Hotel before 20.10.2016.

109 We have also seen the videos contained in the S.D.

card, Ext. P4, which are suggestive of the prosecutrix being a

consenting party and would not like to observe anything more.

110 Apart from above, it has specifically come in the

statement of PW16 Investigating Officer that the calls details of

the prosecutrix and the appellant had been obtained, but had

not been placed on record, which constrains this Court to draw

an adverse inference as by withholding call details and mobile

of the prosecutrix, the prosecution has withheld material

evidence, which could have revealed - (a) as to whether the

appellant and the prosecutrix were in touch with each other (b)

to rule out that the alleged video was not made from the mobile

of the prosecutrix (c) to confirm whether she had received video 56 from any of her friends as alleged by her or the same was

otherwise present in her mobile phone. 111 As a matter of fact, no reasons had been assigned

by the prosecution for not taking into possession the mobile

phones of the friends of the prosecutrix or for that matter, her

cousin's phone (PW5), who specifically stated that alleged video

was available in his mobile as it has been sent to him by his

Whatsapp group, which alone could have shown source of the

video that was alleged to have been made viral, but not proved.

112 Furthermore, even the conduct of the prosecutrix in

not disclosing the fact regarding preparation of alleged video or

having been forced to have oral sex immediately after

20.10.2016 to any person including her friends or family

members also reflects on her adversely. 113 That apart, the prosecution case regarding video

having become viral has otherwise not established from record

and the entire prosecution case otherwise crumbles because

S.D. card, Ext.P4 has been proved to have been produced by

the prosecutrix herself and being custodian of such card,

where the video has been found, it was she alone who could

have transmitted the same; unless there was evidence to the

contrary. 114 There is no evidence on record regarding sexual

harassment, assault or use of criminal force against the

prosecutrix so as to disrobe her and bring the case within the

mischief of Section 354-A and 354-B IPC. 115 Furthermore, there is no evidence for sustaining the

charge under Section 385 IPC as the prosecution has miserably

failed to prove that there were threats to the prosecutrix to

extort money for not making the video viral that was found in

the S.D. card in the mobile belonging to the prosecutrix.

116 As regards offence under section 67A of the I.T. Act, Section 67 reads as under:- 117 While considering the ingredients of aforesaid

Section, it can be said that firstly there must be a publication or 58 transmission of any material in the electronic form. Secondly,

such material must be lascivious or appeals to the prurient

interest. Thirdly such transmission and publication must be

such as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons, who are likely

to read, see or hear the matter contained or embodied in it

While considering the terms "publication' and "transmission', it

is to be established that the person charged with the offence,

must have published or transmitted such material. The

material, will include written material as well as the pictures,

including photographs, cartoons and or drawn material. The

nature of material, lascivious, however, needs to be taken into

consideration as opposed to the standards of the decency.

118 It would be noticed that in the instant case, there is

no proof of either publication or transmission of any material

in the electronic form so as to attract ingredients of Section 67 of I.T. Act. 119 As regards applicability of Section 328 IPC, there is

no evidence whatsoever led by the prosecution, which may

indicate that the prosecutrix was administered poison or any

stupefying, intoxicating or unwholesome drug or other thing

with an intent to cause hurt to her or with an intent to commit 59 or to facilitate the commission of offence or knowing it to be

likely that he will thereby cause hurt to the prosecutrix.

120 The best evidence in the weaponry of the prosecution

is so called video clip, which too does not indicate that the

prosecutrix has been administered any of the aforesaid things

and her conduct in the video is absolutely normal and a non-

resisting one. 121 As regards applicability of Section 201 IPC, again

there is no evidence led by the prosecution to show that there

is any disappearance of evidence of offence by the appellant.

The so called evidence, which has strongly relied upon the by

the prosecution, is in fact contained in the S.D. card, that

admittedly was handed over by the prosecutrix herself to the

police, who, conveniently could have been an accused under Section 201 IPC for having destroyed the mobile phone that

too after registration of the case against the appellant and had

further tried to mislead the investigation by claiming that the

S.D. card had been given to her by her friend, Rajat and had

further managed to mislead the police by claiming that the

video had become viral. 122 The credit worthiness of the testimony of the victim

has already been discussed in the earlier part of the judgment. 60 The victim when put to test as laid down in Rai Sandeep

Deepu case (supra), fails the test of being sterling witness of a

high quality and calibre whose version should therefore be

unassailable and such quality should be in a position to accept

it on face value without any hesitation. 123 The statement of the prosecutrix otherwise has not

been corroborated from and by the other evidence or other

material on record and even the story regarding uploading of

video and thereafter its becoming viral has not been proved

and rather found to be false. 124 There is no doubt that rape causes great distress

and humiliation to the victim of rape but at the same time false

allegation of committing rape also causes humiliation and

damage to the accused. An accused has also rights which are to

be protected and the possibility of false implication has to be

ruled out. 125 Here it shall be apt to refer to the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Radhu vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (2007) 12 SCC 57, wherein it was observed as under:- 126 In Raju v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2008) 15

SCC 133, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that testimony

of the victim of a rape cannot be presumed to be a gospel truth

and observed that false allegations of rape can cause equal

distress, humiliation and damage to the accused as well, such

sentiments have been recorded in para 11 of the judgment,

which reads as under:- 127 In Abbas Ahmed Choudhary Vs. State of Assam : 128 Bearing in mind the aforesaid exposition of law, the

testimony of victim has to be consistent and natural in line with

the case of the prosecution and free from infirmities which

inspire confidence in the Court. It cannot be presumed that the

statement of the victim is always true or without any

embellishment. 129 Reverting back to the facts of the instant case, we

find that the testimony of the victim is not natural and

consistent with the case of the prosecution as her version has

no correlation and does not find corroboration with other

material being scientific and expert evidence and above all, it is

the prosecutrix herself who had refused to get her medically

examined, which otherwise calls for adverse inference.

130 Having considered the entire case of the prosecution

thoroughly and in its right perspective, we are of the firm view 63 that if the evidence of the prosecutrix is read and considered in

totality of the circumstances along with the other evidence on

record, on the basis of which, the offence is alleged to have been

committed, then her deposition does not inspire confidence and

thus was required to be corroborated with other evidence on

record, but has not been so corroborated. 118 Unfortunately, the learned court below has not at

all appreciated what has been discussed by us and simply has

been swayed by irrelevant considerations. 119 In view of the aforesaid discussions and in the given

facts and circumstances, it can conveniently be held that the

prosecution has not been able to prove its case against the

appellant beyond reasonable doubt. Therefore, the impugned

judgment and order of conviction and sentence passed by the

learned trial court are set aside. Consequently, the appellant, in

the instant case, is ordered to be released immediately, if not

required in any other case. 120 The Registry is directed to prepare release warrant of

the appellant. In view of the provisions of Section 437A Cr.P.C.,

the appellant is directed to furnish a personal bond in the sum

of Rs.25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to the

satisfaction of the learned Registrar (Judicial) of this Court, 64 which shall be effective for a period of six months with a

stipulation that in an event of an SLP being filed against this

judgment or on grant of the leave, the appellant on receipt of

notice thereof shall appear before the Hon'ble Supreme Court.

121 The instant appeal is allowed in the aforesaid terms.

Pending application(s), if any, also stands disposed of.

KALYAN Digitally signed by KALYAN CHAND AWASTHI DN: C=IN, O=HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL
 PRADESH, OU=HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL
 PRADESH SHIMLA,
 Phone=068e8173504da3a6d6e56308707033e63c7
 (Tarlok Singh Chauhan)
 CHAND
 253b4e6eb0f2a8f0285cdb5737f49,
 PostalCode=171001, S=Himachal Pradesh,
 SERIALNUMBER=7fe19e609f07c9899a24f7f61744
 de9a7a35cc62f67431d8415b71bf186fbd4f,
 Judge
 CN=KALYAN CHAND AWASTHI

AWASTHI
 Reason: I am approving this document
 Location: