% 17.02.2017 1. These are five petitions under Section 9 of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996 („Act‟) filed by TRF Limited („TRF‟) seeking
interim reliefs against Energo Engineering Projects Limited („Energo‟)
(Respondent No. 1) in the circumstances outlined hereunder. Background facts 2. TRF is stated to be primarily engaged in the business of manufacturing of
Bulk Material Handling Equipments having its unit at Jamshedpur in the
State of Jharkhand. TRF states that is also in the business of installing the
said equipments for its various customers and companies. 3. The facts relevant for OMP (I) (Comm.) No. 66/2017 are that TRF was
awarded two separate contracts by Energo - the first was in relation to the
supply of Wagon Tippler („WT‟) and Side Arm Charger („SAC‟) by OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 3 of 34 Purchase Order („PO‟) dated 10th May, 2014; the other Work Order („WO‟)
was issued by Energo on the same date for erection and commissioning of
WT and SAC. The value of both contracts was Rs. 12,17,67,000. 4. It is stated that in terms of the said contracts, TRF was required to furnish
an Advance Bank Guarantee („ABG‟) in the sum equal to 10% of the total
value of the supply contract and a separate Performance Bank Guarantee
(„PBG‟) for 10% of the order value. Thus, TRF got issued by the
Respondent No.2 IDBI Bank Ltd., in favour of Energo an ABG as well as
PBG for Rs. 1,12,26,700 and Rs.1,21,76,700 respectively. 5. According to TRF, pursuant to the above PO and WO, it started
dispatching the goods in question to Energo from 2nd December, 2014 and
continued doing so till 28th September, 2015. It is important to note that both
the PO and WO pertained to a Project at Korba where the principal
contractor was National Thermal Power Corporation („NTPC‟), which
entered into a contract with Energo. Energo in turn sub-contracted a portion
of the said contract to TRF as a result of which the above PO and WO were
issued. 6. The case of TRF is that it has not been paid any amount towards supplies
made thus far. According to TRF, the total dues against the Korba contract
were approximately Rs. 28 crores. This sum includes Rs. 66,12,000, which
is the retention money available with Energo. The case of TRF is that as far
as the Korba Contract is concerned, it has supplied 87% of the equipment in
terms of the PO. Reference is made in this context to the Special Terms &
Conditions of the Purchase Order („STCPO‟). Clause 21 of the STCPO OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 4 of 34 pertaining to Korba contract envisages that 80% of the supplied value along
with taxes would be paid by Energo to TRF within 75 days of supply of
material at site along with the submission of the documents stated in Clause
21(b) of the STCPO, which includes the tax invoice in original, delivery
challan, lorry receipt etc. The balance 10% of the supply value was payable
on the successful conduction of the Performance Guarantee Test and
submission of the PBG of the equivalent amount for a period of 90 days
beyond the completion. 7. The subject matter of OMP (I) (Comm.) No. 67/2017 are the PO and WO
issued by Energo in favour of TRF for supply, installation and
commissioning of similar equipments for Sipat Project and the subject
matter of OMP (I) (Comm.) No. 68/2017 is the supply, installation and
commissioning of equipment pertaining to Kudgi Project where again the
principal contractor is NTPC. 8. The subject matter of OMP (I) (Comm.) No. 69/2017 & 70/2017 are the
POs and the WOs issued to TRF by Energo for supply, installation and
commissioning of equipment pertaining to the Coal Handling Plant at
Annupur where the principal contractor is LANCO Infra Limited („Lanco').
The terms and conditions governing the ABG and PBG are more or less
similar in all these contracts. As far as STCPO is concerned, there is a slight
variation in the Kudgi Project where Clause 21(b) envisages payment of
65% of the value by Energo to TRF 75 days after the supply. 9. The further common feature in all these cases is that the STCPO itself
mandates that if there is any ambiguity between the General Terms and OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 5 of 34 Conditions of the Purchase Order („GTCPO‟) and STCPO, then the STCPO
would have precedence over the GTCPO. 10. The genesis of the dispute between the parties is traceable to a letter
written by TRF to Energo on 14th May, 2015 for payment of the outstanding
dues in respect of the supply of equipments for installation of CHP at the
above projects. 11. At this stage, it is necessary to point out that according to TRF the
current status of implementation of the fulfilment of its obligations in
respect of the above contracts both as regards supply as well as installation
and commissioning of the equipments in respect of the three NTPC Projects
is as under: 12. It is further stated that in reply to the above letter on 22nd May, 2015,
Energo gave assurances of making payment but never, in fact, made such
payments. On 21st September, 2015, Energo wrote to TRF where inter alia it
was stated as under: 13. It was further stated as under: 14. The details of the balance supplies in respect of each of the contracts
were enclosed with the letter. First round of litigation 15. The case of Energo is that after the above letter dated 21 st September,
2015, TRF stopped all supplies. When Energo sought to invoke the BGs OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 8 of 34 thereafter, the first round of litigation was commenced by TRF by filing
OMP (I) (Comm.) Nos. 65/2015, 66/2015, 68/2015, 69/2015, 70/2015 in this
Court. In the said petitions, the prayers were for an order restraining Energo
from invoking the ABGs and PBGs in question. 16. On 23rd December, 2015, a statement was made before the Court in the
said petitions by the counsel for the Respondents that till the next date of
hearing they would not invoke the BGs in question. The said statement
continued for several hearings thereafter. Meanwhile, the attempts by the
parties to resolve their disputes through negotiations were unsuccessful. 17. TRF issued a notice to Energo on 28th December, 2015 invoking the
arbitration Clause. This was replied to by Energo on 27th January, 2016.
Energo nominated an Arbitrator in terms of GTCPO governing the POs and
the WPOs. On 19th April, 2016, TRF filed an application being Arb.P. No.
85/2016 under Section 11 of the Act. The said petition was dismissed by this
Court on 19th April, 2016. Aggrieved by the said order, TRF filed Special
Leave Petitions, being SLP(C) Nos. 14226/2016 & 14331/2016. An interim
order was passed by the Supreme Court in the said SLPs staying further
proceedings before the Arbitral Tribunal („AT‟). 18. As far as OMP (I) (Comm.) Nos.65/2015, 66/2015, 68/2015, 69/2015,
70/2015 were concerned, a judgment was pronounced by the learned Single
Judge on 16th September, 2016. It was inter alia observed therein that: 19. Aggrieved by the above order, Energo filed FAO(OS)(Comm.) Nos.
112/2016 to 116/2016 before the Division Bench („DB‟) of this Court. By its
judgment dated 23rd December, 2016, the DB set aside the order dated 16th
September, 2016 of the learned Single Judge. The DB noted that by the
order dated 30th September, 2016 in the aforementioned SLPs, the Supreme
Court had stayed further proceedings before the AT. In the circumstances, it
was observed that TRF did not have an efficacious remedy under Section 17 of the Act and therefore, the Court had to consider the prayer for interim
reliefs on merits and pass an order. The present petitions 20. On remand, the aforementioned OMP (I) (Comm.) Nos. 65/2015,
66/2015, 68/2015, 69/2015, 70/2015 were dismissed by the Single Judge on
6th February, 2017 since, in fact, no letter had been issued by Energo as on
that date to the Bank in question invoking the BGs. However, the right of
TRF to urge all the points it sought to raise in the said petitions after such
invocation by Energo was reserved. 21. On 6th February, 2017 itself, Energo wrote separate letters to IDBI
Limited, Respondent No. 2, in OMP (I) (Comm.) Nos. 66/2017, 67/2017,
68/2017 & 70/2017 and Bank of Baroda, Respondent No. 2 in OMP (I)
(Comm.) No. 69/2017 invoking the BGs issued by them in favour of TRF by
stating that TRF had failed to fulfil its obligations under the above-referred
Purchase/Work Order/Contracts. 22. As a result thereof, the present petitions were filed by TRF, thus,
commencing the second round of litigation. 23. The petitions were first listed in the Court on 8th February, 2017. By the
time they were numbered and brought up for hearing it was already 4:30
p.m. Since there was no time left, the Court while directing the notice to
issue on that date kept the petitions for hearing on the very next date i.e., 9th
February, 2017. Till then, Energo was restrained from encashing the BGs
that had already been invoked. 24. With the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, the petitions have
been finally heard. Submissions on behalf of TRF 25. Mr. Amit Sibal, learned Senior Advocate appearing for TRF submitted
that this was a case where the invocation of the BGs by Energo was not
bona fide. It constituted a fraud not only on the Banks in question but also
on the Court since Energo was dishonestly claiming that TRF was in breach
of the contract when it was not. He submitted that this was a case where
special equities existed in favour of TRF. 26. Mr. Sibal further submitted that each of the contracts was a separate one
and the alleged breach of one contract could not be a justification for Energo
not to fulfil its obligations under the other contracts. He pointed out that
under the Korba Contract, no payment at all had been made for the supplies
made although there was obligation to pay 80% of the amount in terms of
Clause 21(b) of the STCPO, which would prevail over the GTCPO. He
sought to read the ABG and the PBG as a whole. He submitted that
although, facially, it might appear that the ABGs and the PBGs were
unconditional, they, in fact, referred specifically to the STCPO. Therefore,
unless the conditions of the STCPO were fulfilled, it would not be open to
Energo to unilaterally invoke and seek to encash the BGs in question and
that would be an exercise in dishonestly. He alleged that not having been
paid any money by Energo to TRF, Energo was seeking to encash the BGs
on false pretexts only to find the money to pay TRF. It is submitted that if
indeed TRF was in breach of the contract, it was inexplicable that Energo
should have chosen not to terminate the contract as yet. 27. Mr. Sibal also made extensive reference to the replies filed by Energo in
the earlier petitions where, according to Mr. Sibal, there was a clear
admission by way of charts presented by Energo of the amounts admittedly
owed by it to TRF. Having admitted its liability to pay those amounts, there
was no justification for Energo to proceed to invoke and then encash the
BGs in question. According to Mr. Sibal, the lack of bona fide was also
evident from the fact that Energo rejected all the proposals put forth by TRF
during the hearings of the earlier petitions offering to complete the supplies OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 12 of 34 and thereafter install and commission the equipments under the POs and
WOs. He pointed out that the bona fides of TRF were evident from the fact
that in those offers TRF undertook to complete all supplies without insisting
on compliance by Energo with Clause 21(b) of the STCPO. TRF was
prepared to wait for the payment till 100% supplies were complete and yet
Energo did not come forward to positively respond to the said offer. TRF
even now stood by the said offers and if Energo was prepared to accept
them, then there would be no need for encashment of the BGs at this stage. 28. Reliance was placed by Mr. Sibal on the decision in Gangotri
Enterprises Limited v. Union of India 2016 (6) SCALE 664; Satluj Jal
Vidyut Nigam Limited v. Jai Prakash Hyundai Consortium ILR (2006) 1
Delhi 415; Hindustan Construction Company Limited v. State of Bihar &
Ors. (1999) 8 SCC 436; P.D. Alkarma Pvt. Ltd. v. Canara Bank 1998 (45)
DRJ 423; BSES Limited v. Fenner India Limited (2006) 2 SCC 728; AMKV-Tecpro v. Gail (India) Limited 2015 SCC OnLine Del 6989. He
also placed reliance on Adani Agri Fresh Limited v. Mahaboob Sharif 2015 SCC OnLine SC 1302. 29. Mr Sibal pointed out that the dishonesty of Energo was apparent in that
despite recovering the entire amount of the advance against the bills already
submitted for the supplies made by TRF, the ABG was still sought to be
invoked and encashed by Energo. Further, Energo itself asked TRF to not
proceed with the installation and commissioning of the equipment supplied
for the Annupur Project. In other Projects, Energo refused to come forward
to facilitate the installation, erection and commissioning. It was seeking to OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 13 of 34 encash the PBGs even when the stage of conducting the performance tests
had not been reached. In the circumstances, the invocation of the PBGs by
Energo was dishonest. 30. Mr Sibal submitted that although the Bank in question may not be in a
position to decide whether the invocation of the BGs was honest, the Court
can certainly do so in order to determine whether special equities existed in
favour of TRF. It is pointed out that TRF is before the Board of Industrial
and Financial Reconstruction („BIFR‟) and if the BGs in question were
allowed to be invoked and encashed, irretrievable injustice would be caused
to TRF as it would be in no position to make any payments to its employees
and other creditors. Submissions on behalf of Energo 31. Countering the above submissions, Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Senior
Advocate appearing for Energo, first pointed out that the wording of the
ABGs and the PBGs left no room for doubt that they were unconditional.
He denied the assertion of TRF that the amounts due to TRF were admitted
by Energo and that there was no dispute as such as regards Energo‟s
liabilities. He submitted that the chart set out in the counter affidavits filed
by Energo in the previous round of litigation cannot be read selectively. He
asserted that there were disputes even as of date between TRF and Energo as
to who was actually in breach of contracts. With TRF having decided
unilaterally to stop supplies after 21st September, 2015, its proposal
subsequently made after the filing of OMP (I) (Comm.) Nos. 65/2015,
66/2015, 68/2015, 69/2015, 70/2015 could not be said to be bona fide. Even OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 14 of 34 now, the offer was only conditional. 32. Mr. Krishnan pointed out that the circumstances had changed over the
last one year, which make it impossible to put the clock back. He submitted
that Lanco terminated its contracts with Energo and the question of therefore
accepting any supplies offered hereafter by TRF could not possibly be
accepted qua the projects involving Lanco as the principal contractor.
Further, he pointed out that even as regards the Korba supplies, NTPC had
chosen to directly deal with TRF at the risk and cost of Energo. This change
in circumstances made it difficult to accept any of the offers of TRF which,
in any event, had come too late. He submitted that the law was well settled
as regards the Courts interfering with the invocation and encashment of the
BGs. According to him, no special equities existed in favour of TRF for
grant of any interim order as prayed for. 33. Mr. Krishnan relied on the decisions in U.P. State Sugar Corporation v.
Sumac International Limited (1997) 1 SCC 568; Consortium of Deepak
Cable India Limited & Abir Infrastructure Private Limited (DCIL-AIPL)
v. Teestavalley Power Transmission Limited (2014) 215 DLT 246 (DB); Airworth Travel & Tour Private Limited v. International Air Transport
Association [decision dated 29th September, 2015 of the DB in FAO(OS)
No. 305/2015]; State Trading Corporation of India Limited v. Jainsons
Clothing Corporation (1994) 6 SCC 597; Vinitec Electronics Private
Limited v. HCL Infosystems Limited (2008) 1 SCC 544 and the decision of
this Court dated 6th December, 2016 in Arb. P. No. 499/2015 in Geo Miller
& Co. Pvt. Ltd. v. Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 15 of 34 Limited . 34. As regards the charts referred to by Mr. Sibal, Mr. Krishnan pointed out
that the context in which the charts were set out was in the background of
the repeated breaches of the POs and the WOs by TRF which was adverted
to in the paragraphs preceding and succeeding in charts. Therefore, it could
not be read in isolation. He submitted that if the Court were to judge the
correctness of the decision of Energo in invoking the unconditional BGs in
question, then it would make the entire system of furnishing of
unconditional BGs non-workable as in every case the onus would shift to the
beneficiary to demonstrate before the Court the bona fide of its belief
regarding the breach of the contract by the other party. It may also make
difficult the working of the banks and they would be in no position to decide
whether the invocation in terms of the BGs would cause irretrievable
injustice to the other party. 35. Referring to the judgment in the Consortium of Deepak Cable India
Limited & Abir Infrastructure Private Limited (DCIL-AIPL) v.
Teestavalley Power Transmission Limited (supra), Mr Krishnan submitted
that the plea of „lack of good faith‟ and/or „enforcing with an oblique
purpose‟ or that the bank guarantee was being invoked as a „bargaining
chip‟ or as a „deterrent‟ or in an „abusive manner‟ are all irrelevant and
hence have to be ignored. He also disputed the percentage of supplies
completed by TRF by pointing out that in more than one instance, TRF
failed to supply the most critical high value equipment. He submitted that no
case whatsoever was made out for restraining Energo from encashing the OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 16 of 34 BGs. As far as the Korba unit offer of TRF was concerned, Mr. Krishnan
submitted that Energo would be willing to consider it after the BGs were
encashed. A recapitulation of the legal position 36. At the outset, the Court would like to recapitulate the law pertaining to
interdiction by the Court in the invocation and encashment of the BGs. For
the purposes of the present petitions, reference may be made, to begin with,
to the decision of the Supreme Court in State Trading Corporation of India
Limited v. Jainsons Clothing Corporation (supra). Fraud was pleaded but
on the facts of that case, it was found that no fraud had been committed by
the Appellant in entering into contract with the Respondent. Nor was there
any fraud "in formation or execution of bank guarantee." Under those
circumstances, it was held that "it is not a case of any fraud but at best it is a
case of cancellation of the contract by the appellant-principal supplier to the
foreign buyer. But that does not have the effect of frustrating or cancelling
the contract which the Respondent had entered into with the Appellant." In
paras 8 & 9, the Court explained the law in relation to the interference with
the encashment of BGs as under: 37.1 The next significant decision was U.P. State Sugar Corporation v.
Sumac International Limited (supra). There the facts were that in terms of
the contract between the parties, the Respondent/Sumac agreed to design an
engineering layout and to manufacture or procure and supply to the U.P.
State Sugar Corporation („UPSSC‟) the machinery and equipment for a
complete sugar plant for extension and modernisation of its existing plant at
Rohana Kalan, District Muzaffarnagar, U.P. In terms of the said contract,
five BGs were furnished by Sumac to UPSSC - one for timely delivery of
the plant and machinery, a PBG for an amount representing 5% of the
contract price and three BGs in respect of advance payments representing
5%, 10% and 5% of the contract price respectively. All the BGs were
payable on demand and expressly provided that it would not be open to the
guarantor to know the reasons or to investigate or to go into the merits of the
demand. It was further provided that the invocation of the BG was binding OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 18 of 34 on UPSSC. 37.2 Aggrieved by the failure of Sumac to adhere to the obligations under
the contract in question, UPSSC at one stage cancelled the contract and
claimed refund of the advance payment. UPSSC then proceeded to invoke
the BGs in question after giving credit for the material that had been
supplied till then. This led to Sumac filing a petition in the Civil Court
seeking stay of encashment of the BGs. 37.3 The trial Court dismissed the applications but the High Court reversed
it in revision and granted an injunction restraining UPSSC from enforcing
the BGs. In allowing the appeal of UPSSC, the Supreme Court observed as
under: 37.4 The Supreme Court in U.P. State Sugar Corporation v. Sumac
International Limited (supra) further explained the two exceptions to the
rule that a bank must pay according to the tenor of the guarantee as under: 37.5 The Court also referred to an earlier decision in Svenska
Handelsbanken v. Indian Charge Chrome (1994) 1 SCC 502, where it was
noticed that the confirmed BG/irrevocable Letter of Credit (LC) cannot be
interfered with unless there is established fraud or irretrievable injustice
involved in the case. In was observed that irretrievable injury had to be of
the nature noticed in the case of Itek Corporation v. First National Bank of
Boston 566 Fed Supp. 1210. Confirming the observations in U.P. Coop. Federation Limited v. Singh Consultants & Engineers (P) Ltd. (1988) 1
SCC 174, the Supreme Court in Svenska Handelsbanken v. Indian Charge
Chrome (supra) explained that "the fraud must be that of the beneficiary,
and not the fraud of anyone else." 37.6 In U.P. State Sugar Corporation v. Sumac International Limited (supra), the Supreme Court further explained the second exception to the
rule viz., irretrievable injustice. It had to be of the kind which was the
subject matter of the decision in Itek Corporation v. First National Bank of
Boston (supra). In that case, an exporter in USA entered into an agreement
with the Imperial Government of Iran and sought an order terminating its
liability on standby letters of credit issued by an American bank in favour of
an Iranian Bank as part of the contract. The relief was sought on account of
the situation created after the Iranian revolution when the American
government cancelled the export licences in relation to Iran and the Iranian
Government had forcibly taken 52 American citizens as hostages. The US
had blocked all Iranian assets under the jurisdiction of the US and had
cancelled the export contract. It was in those exceptional circumstances that
the Court had to interfere. It was explained, "to avail of this exception,
therefore, exceptional circumstances which make it impossible for the
guarantor to reimburse himself if he ultimately succeeds, will have to be
decisively established." 38. The above decision in U.P. State Sugar Corporation v. Sumac
International Limited (supra) rendered two decades ago has stood the test
of time and has been consistently followed in several subsequent decisions OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 21 of 34 of the Supreme Court as well as the High Courts. 39.1. In BSES Limited v. Fenner India Limited (supra), the above legal
position was reiterated. There is a detailed discussion in the judgment on the
aspect of the exceptions to the rule that the BG must be honoured in
accordance with its terms since "the bank, which gives the guarantee, is not
concerned with the relations between the supplier and the customer. Neither
is the bank concerned with the question whether any of them have failed in
their contractual obligations or not. In other words, the bank must pay
according to the tenor of its guarantee, on demand, without proof or
condition." 39.2. The two exceptions were again explained as under: 39.3. An attempt was made in that case to explain the scope of the exception
by reference to the decision of the Court of Appeal in Singapore in Samwoh
Asphalt Premix Pte. Ltd. v. Sum Cheong Piling Pte. Ltd. (2002) 1 SLR 1.
It was sought to be urged that the invocation of a PBG "for an oblique
purpose was not permissible" and that "the unconscionable calling of a bank OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 22 of 34 guarantee was an exception independent of fraud." However, in BSES
Limited v. Fenner India Limited (supra), the Supreme Court categorically
rejected the above submission and held as under: 39.4 What is also significant as far as the decision in BSES Limited v.
Fenner India Limited (supra) is concerned is the clarification that it is the
beneficiary in whose favour the BG is issued who is the best judge to decide
as to when and for what reason the BGs should be encashed. It was held as
under: 27. This was also a case where, after having recovered certain amount
 from the running bills, a call was made on the bank guarantee in
 respect of the full guaranteed amount. In an observation with direct
 relevance for the present case, this Court pointed out that the bank
 was not concerned with the outstanding amount payable under the
 running bills: (SCC p. 238, para 10)
 "The right to recover the amount under the running bills has no
 relevance to the liability of the Bank under the guarantee. The
 liability of the Bank remained intact irrespective of the
 recovery of mobilisation advance or the non-payment under the
 running bills. The failure on the part of (the Beneficiary) to
 specify the remaining mobilisation advance in the letter for
 encashment of bank guarantee is of little consequence to the
 liability of the bank under the guarantee."" 41. The legal position was further explained In Mahatma Gandhi Sahakra
Sakkare Karkhane v. National Heavy Engineering Coop. Ltd. (2007) 6
SCC 470 in the following passage: 42. In Vinitec Electronics Private Limited v. HCL Infosystems Limited (supra), the Supreme Court also dealt with the issue whether the preamble to
the BG would control its operative part. This was because in that case the
operative portion of the BG did not refer to any of the conditions for
payment under the BG. It was clarified as under: 43. More recently, in Gujarat Maritime Board v. Larsen and Toubro
Infrastructure Development Projects Limited ( 2016) 10 SCC 46 and Adani
Agri Fresh Limited v. Mahaboob Sharif (supra), the entire case law was
revisited and reiterated by the Supreme Court. 44. The above line of judgments have been followed by several decisions of
the High Courts. However, a reference needs to be made in this regard only
to Consortium of Deepak Cable India Limited v. Teestavalley Power OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 26 of 34 Transmission Limited (supra) where it was succinctly explained as under: 45. It might appear on first blush that in some of the decisions of the High
Courts as well as the Supreme Court a different line of reasoning has been
adopted but, in fact, it does not appear to be so. In Hindustan Construction
Company Limited v. State of Bihar (supra), the Court interfered with the
enforcement of the BG only because of the particular wording of the BGs
involved in that case which required certain conditions to be fulfilled. Even
in Gangotri Enterprises Limited v. Union of India (supra) which has OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 27 of 34 extensively been referred to by Mr. Sibal, the underlying contract and the
precise wording of the BGs weighed with the Supreme Court in holding that
the Courts below were in error in declining to grant the injunction against
the encashment of the BGs in question. It was held that every case has to be
decided with reference to the facts. In Gangotri Enterprises Limited v.
Union of India (supra), the facts were held to be more or less similar to the
facts in Union of India v. Raman Iron Foundry (1974) 2 SCC 231. In
particular, in Gangotri Enterprises Limited v. Union of India (supra),
certain circumstances were noticed which persuaded the Court to proceed to
grant the injunction. These were noted in para 42 as under: 46. None of the above factors can be said to exist in the present case. The
decisions of the High Courts in Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited v. Jai
Prakash Hyundai Consortium (supra); P.D. Alkarma Pvt. Ltd. v. Canara
Bank ( supra) and AMKV-Tecpro v. Gail (India) Limited (supra) when OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 28 of 34 carefully examined bring out the distinguishing features as far as the facts
are concerned. They also have to be reconciled with the law repeatedly
stressed by the Supreme Court in several of its judgments which have been
referred to hereinbefore. Analysis and reasons 47. Turning to the facts of the present case, the Court would like to, at the
outset, set out in extenso one of the BGs which would be sufficient since the
BGs in the other cases are more or less similarly worded. The conditions
attached to one of the ABGs dated 2nd June, 2014 by IDBI Bank Limited in
favour of Energo read as under: 48. There are four preamble clauses preceding the operative portion. There
can be no doubt on the reading of the above BG as a whole that it is OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 30 of 34 unconditional. However, it does not stop there. There is a specific clause
under which the Bank has agreed that Energo would be the sole judge as to
whether TRF has committed any breach of the terms and conditions of the
BG and the extent of loss, damage etc. There are further clauses which make
it abundantly clear that the demand made on the Bank would be conclusive
as regards the amount due and payable by the Bank under the BG. There is
express waiver in favour of Energo of all the rights, defence and pleas to
which, both the Bank and the guarantor and/or the supplier may be entitled
to. It is further stated that Energo could act as though the Bank were the
principal debtor. 49. A draft of a BG is usually approved by the parties and then submitted to
the Bank which is called upon to issue it in that very format. In this case,
TRF was conscious of the wording of the BG in question and expressly
agreed to it. If TRF was concerned about receiving payments for the
supplies made by it and was unsure whether Energo would be honouring its
commitment, then as a prudent business entity, TRF might have wanted to
secure its interests by requiring Energo to open an LC with another Bank
whereby payment would be made upon delivery of the goods without any
further recourse to Energo. These are ultimately business decisions made
consciously by the parties. The Court must bind the parties to their
obligations in terms of the contract. It is for this reason that only two
exceptions have been carved out by the Supreme Court in many of its
decisions. These exceptions have been narrowly tailored. The reason is that
it is not possible to place a burden on the bank concerned to determine as to
which party is in breach. It is also not possible for the Court to undertake OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 31 of 34 that exercise at this stage. 50. As explained in General Electric Technical Services Company Inc. v.
Punj Sons (P) Ltd. (1991) 4 SCC 230 and reiterated in BSES Limited v.
Fenner India Limited (supra), "the liability of the Bank remained intact
irrespective of the recovery of mobilisation advance or the non-payment
under the running bills. The failure on the part of [the Beneficiary] to
specify the remaining mobilisation advance in the letter for encashment of
bank guarantee is of little consequence to the liability of the bank under the
guarantee." Thus, the fact that the beneficiary may have already recovered
much of the amounts secured by the BG are not relevant in deciding whether
an injunction should be granted against invocation of such BG, particularly
when it is unconditional. In other words, an unconditional BG has always
been considered on a different footing by the Court. Even where a BG is
wrongly invoked and encashed by a party, the remedy for the other party
where the BG is unconditional is only to seek to make a claim against such
allegedly unlawful invocation and encashment of the BG. It may not be a
good ground to require the Court to injunct the encashment of the BG. 51. The Court also cannot compel one party to accept the proposal of other
however bona fide it might seem. In this regard, the Court would like to note
that the charts referred to by Mr. Sibal from the affidavits filed by Energo in
the previous round of litigation do mention the amounts that are due to TRF.
However, that cannot be read in isolation. If the entire narration in the
affidavit is read as a whole, then the context in which such tables have been
set out becomes clear. From the point of view of Energo, there appears to be OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 32 of 34 a dispute even in regard to the supplies made for the Korba Project. Energo
does not admit that amounts are due to TRF independent of the claims that
Energo has against TRF. It might ultimately involve reconciliation of the
amounts due by one party to the other. That, however, does not mean that
there does not exist a dispute between the parties as is sought to be made by
TRF. The Court is, therefore, not in a position to accept the plea of TRF that
there are „admitted amounts‟ which are undisputed by Energo. These can at
best be resolved in the arbitration proceedings. 52. The Court is, therefore, not satisfied that in the facts and circumstances
of the case TRF has made out a case for applicability of either of the
exceptions to the normal rule that an unconditional BG must be honoured on
its terms and should not be interdicted by a Court. In other words, the Court
is not satisfied that TRF has made out even a prima facie case that "there is a
clear fraud of which the bank has notice and a fraud of the beneficiary from
which it seeks to benefit" or that there is fraud "of an egregious nature as to
vitiate the entire underlying transaction". The Court is also not satisfied that
the encashment of the BGs in question "would result in irretrievable harm or
injustice of an irreversible kind" to TRF or that special equities akin thereto
exist in favour of TRF warranting the encashment of the BGs being
injuncted. Conclusion 53. Consequently, the Court finds no reason to continue the interim order
passed by it on 8th February, 2017 and further continued at the time of
reserving the petitions on 9th February, 2017. The said interim orders staying OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 33 of 34 the encashment of the BGs in question are hereby vacated. 54. It is clarified that this order is only a prima facie view of the Court at
this stage and is not intended to influence the decision on merits at any of
the subsequent stages of the dispute between the parties. 55. The petitions are dismissed with costs of Rs. 20,000 in each of the
petitions, which shall be paid by TRF to Energo within four weeks. S. MURALIDHAR, J
FEBRUARY 17, 2017
b'nesh OMP (I) (COMM) Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70/2017 Page 34 of 34