1. The accused persons namely Rajesh Yadav, Rakesh Yadav,
Ashok Yadav, Tirath Yadav and Saraswati Devi are facing trial for the
offence punishable u/s. 308 / 34 IPC and accused namely Rajesh Yadav,
Rakesh Yadav, Ashok Yadav are also facing trial for the offence
punishable u/s. 452 / 34 IPC. BRIEF FACTS 2. The case of Prosecution is that on 19.09.2019 on the receipt of DD
nos. 84-A, 85-A, 86-A, 90-A, 91-A, 92-A, 93-A, 97-A, 98-A, 99-A,
100-A, 101-A and 102-A regarding quarrel, SI Shiv Raj alongwith Ct.
Jagram reached at the spot i.e. house no. 159, 161, gali no. 13, Hari
Nagar-II, Jaitpur, New Delhi where they came to know that injured
persons were shifted to AIIMS Trauma Center. Thereafter SI Shiv Raj
went to the AIIMS Trauma Center leaving Ct. Jagram at the spot where
he collected the MLCs of injured namely Nirmala, Raman and
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: Surender Singh rushed out to save him but all the accused persons
attacked them as well with kicks and blows; that his mother also
received a blow from the rod; that he rushed to his house to save
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 3. On the basis of charge-sheet so submitted before Ld.
Metropolitan Magistrate, cognizance was taken by the Ld.
Metropolitan Magistrate and after compliance with the provisions of Section 207 Cr.PC, the case was committed to the Court of Sessions
and was assigned to this Court. CHARGE 4. After hearing arguments on point of charge and finding a
prima facie case, requisite charges U/s. 308/452/34 IPC was framed
against all accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial and the matter came up for Prosecution evidence.
4.1. During the course of Prosecution evidence one of the
accused i.e. Tirath Yadav expired and proceedings stands abated as
against accused Tirath Yadav vide Order dated 09.11.2021. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE 5. In support of its case, the prosecution has examined as many
as six witnesses. 5.1. PW-1 Sh. Raman Chahal is the complainant in the present
case. His testimony in detail shall be discussed in the later part of
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: that on the statement of the complainant, the present FIR was
registered; that thereafter he alongwith IO SI Shiv Raj and complainant
went to the spot; that the complainant handed over his blood stained
clothes and the same were seized vide seizure memo already Ex.
PW-1/2; that IO prepared the pullanda of the clothes and put the seal of
"SRS"; that IO also seized the blood stained clothes of other injured
Surender Singh and Nirmala and prepared the pullanda of the clothes
vide seizure memo Ex. PW-2/A and Ex. PW-3/A; that the complainant
told the IO that the accused persons are standing infront of their house;
that accused Rajesh, Rakesh and Ashok were apprehended infront of
their house; that accused Rajesh, Rakesh and Ashok were arrested in

SC NO. 570/2019, FIR NO. 235/2019, PS. JAITPUR STATE VS. RAJESH YADAV & ORS. this case and their arrest memos were prepared vide Ex. PW-4/A, Ex.
PW-4/B and Ex. PW-4/C respectively; that IO took the personal search
of the accused persons and prepared their personal search memos
which are Ex. PW-4/D, Ex. PW-4/E and Ex. PW-4/F respectively; that
IO recorded the statements of the accused persons Rajesh, Rakesh and
Ashok vide memos Ex. PW-4/G, Ex. PW-4/H and Ex. PW-4/I
respectively; that the accused persons were sent to AIIMS Hospital for
their medical examination; that after their medical examination, they
were brought to the police station and kept in police lockup; that IO
recorded his statement". He was cross-examined by Ld. Defence
Counsel. 5.5. PW-5 SI Shiv Raj is the Investigating Officer in the present
case and he has deposed that "on 19.09.2019 DD No. 84-A, 85-A, 86-
A, 90-A, 91-A, 92-A, 93-A, 97-A, 98-A, 99-A, 100-A, 101-A and 102-
A were received in the police station regarding a quarrel in house No.
159, 161, Gali No. 13, Hari Nagar-II, Jaitpur, New Delhi; that he
alongwith Ct. Jagram reached at the spot where they came to know that
the injured persons were removed to the hospital by PCR van; that after
sometime, DD No. 12-A and 13-A were received from AIIMS Trauma
Center, New Delhi regarding admission of the injured persons in the
present quarrel; that he left Ct. Jagram at the spot and went to AIIMS
Trauma Center, New Delhi where Raman, Surender and Nirmala were
found admitted there; that he collected their MLCs vide MLCs Mark-A
(Raman), Mark-B (Surender) and Mark-C (Nirmala); that he asked the
injured persons to give their statement but they said that they will give
their statements later on; that thereafter he came back to the spot with
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: PW6/A to Ex. PW6/C. He was cross-examined by Ld. Defence
Counsel. STATEMENT OF ACCUSED 6. After completion of prosecution evidence, all the
incriminating material was put to all the accused persons under section
313 Cr.PC. They pleaded innocence and stated that they have been
falsely implicated in the present case and they preferred to lead defence
evidence and matter was fixed for Defence Evidence. DEFENCE EVIDENCE 7. In defence, accused has examined DW-1 Sh. Jamadhar who
has deposed that "on 19.09.2019 at about 9 pm, he went to meet his
cousin namely Tirath Yadav; that he used to visit him once in two to
three weeks as he was not keeping well; that after visiting him, he left
his house; that after about twenty minutes, he received a call from
Tirtah Yadav who stated that a quarrel took place at his place and his
neighbours attacked his house; that he immediately returned back to
the house of Tirath Yadav within twenty five minutes; that he saw
Rathore, his family and his neighbours throwing stones and they also
tried to lit the house of Tirath Yadav; that police reached at the house
of Tirath Yadav after ten minutes; that he did not know who were
quarreling and throwing stones on the PCR; that he personally knew
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 8. Ld. Addl. P.P. for the State has argued that the case of
Prosecution has been established against the accused persons beyond
reasonable doubt; that PW-1 Sh. Raman Chahal, PW-2 Sh. Surender
Singh and PW-3 Ms. Nirmala are the injured and eye witnesses of the
case and they have fully supported the case of Prosecution; that the
their testimonies are stable during their cross-examination also; that no
contradiction and improvement was established by the Ld. Defence
Counsel during the cross-examination of Prosecution witnesses; that
PW-6 Dr. Pradeep Tomar has also established the nature of injury of
the injured persons by proving the MLC before the Court; that the
injury was caused by the accused persons through the blunt object and
had chosen the vital part of the body of the injured persons; that the
nature of injuries are grievous; that it is settled principle of law that
non-recovery of weapon of offence does not vitiate the case of
Prosecution; that accused persons had also entered the house of the
injured persons and also gave them beatings inside their house; that no
motive was established by the accused persons as to why they have
been falsely implicated in the present case; that therefore it is prayed to
this Court that the accused persons are liable to be convicted for the
offence punishable u/s 308 / 452 / 34 IPC. 8.1. Per contra, it was argued from the side of all accused persons
that the accused persons are not involved in the commission of present
case; that they have not caused any injury to the injured person; that no
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 9. I have heard the Ld. Addl. PP for the State as well as Ld.
Counsel for all the accused persons and perused the record. ANALYSIS OF EVIDENCE AND FINDINGS 10. The accused persons are facing trial for the offence U/s.
308/452/34 IPC . 10.1. Section 308 IPC deals with attempt to commit culpable
homicide. The essential ingredients required to be proved in the case of
an offence u/s. 308 IPC are:- (b) causing such bodily injury as the accused knew to be likely to
cause the death of the person to whom the harm was attempted to be
caused; or (c) of causing bodily injury to a person and the bodily injury
intended to be inflicted would have been sufficient in the ordinary
course of nature to cause death; or (d) that the act if completed would have been so imminently
dangerous that it would have in all probability caused death or such
bodily injury as is likely to cause death; that the act attempted was

SC NO. 570/2019, FIR NO. 235/2019, PS. JAITPUR STATE VS. RAJESH YADAV & ORS. committed without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death of
such injury as aforesaid; To which may be added the following aggravating circumstances: 10.2. Section 452 IPC deals with house-trespass after preparation
for causing hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint. The points requiring
proof are: 11. It is well settled law that while appreciating the evidence of
witness, the approach must be whether the evidence of a witness read
as a whole appears to have a ring of truth. Once that impression is
found, it is undoubtedly necessary for the Court to scrutinize the
evidence more particularly keeping in view the deficiencies, draw
backs and infirmities pointed out in the evidence as a whole and
evaluate them to find out whether it is against the general tenor of the
evidence. Minor discrepancies on trivial matters not touching the core
of the case, hyper technical approach by taking sentences torn out of
context here or there from the evidence, attaching importance to some
technical error committed by the investigating officer not going to the
root of the matter should not ordinarily permit rejection of the evidence Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: 12. The case of the prosecution is that all the accused persons in
furtherance of their common intention had beaten Sh. Surender, Smt.
Nirmala and Sh. Raman Chahal and further caused injuries on their
heads with iron rods under such circumstances that if death of Sh.
Surender, Smt. Niramala and Sh. Raman Chahal would have caused,
they will be guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. In
order to prove its case, the prosecution has examined complainant Sh.
Raman Chahal who is also the injured and other injured persons
namely Sh. Surender and Smt. Nirmala. 12.1. I now proceed to analyse the testimonies of the witnesses in
the present case. Complainant/ injured Sh. Raman Chahal was
examined as PW-1 and he has deposed that "on 19.09.2019 at about
10.30 pm, he returned home from gym on his motorcycle and when he
turned towards his gali, he found a tempo standing there which was
blocking the passage and he was unable to pass; that he enquired from
one or two persons about who was the owner of the tempo, in the
meanwhile Rakesh, Rajesh and Ashok and their father Tirath Yadav
came rushing towards him and asked him as to why he was making so
much noise; that he left his motorcycle therein then and told them to
inform him when the tempo will be leaving so that he may remove his
motorcycle and thereafter came back home; that after sometime Ashok
came to his house and told him to remove the motorcycle; that as he
walked towards the motorcycle and passed infront of the house of the Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: 12.6. The testimony of the witnesses have to be examined in light
of the law discussed herein-above. The case of the Prosecution is that
the accused persons assaulted complainant Raman and his parents with
iron rods on the issue of parking and during that assault accused
persons even entered his house in order to beat him. In the words of
complainant i.e. PW-1 Raman, "as he walked towards the motorcycle
and passed infront of the house of the accused persons, he was stopped
by accused namely Rakesh, Rajesh, Ashok, Tirath and their mother
Saraswati Devi; that accused Tirath Yadav said "too chora kum hua
kar" on which he told him that uncle there was nothing to shout about
and he was merely saying that if the tempo belonged to them, they Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: well as with the assistance of IO. He has further denied the suggestion
that he had intentionally not given the statement in the hospital despite
the fact that he was in position to give the same. He answered well all
the questions put-forth by the Ld. Defence counsel and the accused has
failed to show any circumstance from which it can be said that accused
persons were falsely implicated in the present case out of any previous
enmity. He very well withstood the test of cross-examination and his
evidence is found to be inherently reliable, probable, cogent and
consistent. 12.8. The testimony of PW-1 is well corroborated by the testimony of
his mother i.e. PW-3 Ms. Nirmala who has deposed that that " her son
Raman went outside the house for removing the motorcycle with
accused Ashok; that when her son did not come back and she saw
through railing on the first floor that her son Raman was sitting on the
motorcycle and accused persons Rakesh, Rajesh, Ashok, Tirath Yadav
and Saraswati were surrounding him; that she called her son from her
railing 'Raman Kya Hua' and she immediately went to the spot where
her son Raman was standing with his bike followed by her husband;
that she asked the accused persons and particularly accused Rajesh beta
kya hua and on this accused Tirath Yadav told his son 'accused Rajesh
rod lekar aa abhi batate hein'; that accused Rajesh immediately went
inside his house and brought an iron rod and he hit upon her son
Raman on his head while her son was sitting on the motorcycle; that
she shouted 'beta aaisa kyon kar rahe ho' then accused Rajesh hit her
with the said rod on her head; that she sustained injury on her head and
blood oozed out from her head; that her husband also tried to intervene Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: 13. Regarding the injury, complainant i.e. PW-1 has deposed that
"in the meanwhile they all started hitting him; that accused Rajesh
went inside his house and brought a rod and hit him on his head due to
which he fell down; that his mother Smt. Nirmala and father Sh.
Surender Singh rushed out to save him but all the accused persons
attacked them as well with kicks and blows; that his mother also
received a blow from the rod". The fact got re-confirmed during cross-
examination by the Ld. Defence Counsel that he was hit by the accused
persons with the iron rod. Similarly PW-2 has deposed that " that
accused Rajesh brought an iron rod from his house and hit the same on
the head of his son; that his wife tried to save Raman but accused also
hit the rod on the head of his wife; that he tried to save his son but
accused Ashok Yadav hit him by his head on the wall and as he tried to
get up, accused Rajesh hit him with an iron rod on his head and he
sustained injury on his head and blood oozed out". He has re-confirmed
the fact during cross-examination that he was hit by the accused Rajesh
Yadav with the iron rod. He has further re-confirmed that accused
Ashok Yadav pushed his head on the wall and other accused persons
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: examination, PW-6 clarified that blunt object might be iron rod, danda,
lathi or wooden rod. Henceforth, PW-6 has successfully proved that
PW-1 and PW-3 sustained grievous injury and PW-2 sustained simple
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 14. In their statements u/s. 313 Cr.PC, the accused persons have
stated that they are innocent and have been falsely implicated in the
present case and they examined DW-1 Sh. Jamadhar Ojha who has
deposed that "on 19.09.2019 at about 9 pm, he went to meet his cousin
namely Tirath Yadav; that he used to visit him once in two to three
weeks as he was not keeping well; that after visiting him, he left his
house; that after about twenty minutes, he received a call from Tirtah
Yadav who stated that a quarrel took place at his place and his
neighbours attacked his house; that he immediately returned back to
the house of Tirath Yadav within twenty five minutes; that he saw
Rathore, his family and his neighbours throwing stones and they also
tried to lit the house of Tirath Yadav; that police reached at the house
of Tirath Yadav after ten minutes; that he did not know who were
quarreling and throwing stones on the PCR; that he personally knew
sons of Rathore; that he tried to intervene but the police asked him to
leave the place and he returned back to his home". He was cross
examined by Ld. Addl.P.P. for the State. 14.1. The allegations against the accused persons is that they badly
assaulted the complainant and his parents due to which they suffered
head injuries whereas DW-1 has deposed that he saw Rathore family
and his neighbours were throwing stones and even tried to set on fire
the house of accused Tirath Yadav but who are those Rathore has not Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: 12138 it has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that " To proceed
under Section 308 IPC, it is not essential that the injury actually caused
to the victim should be sufficient under ordinary circumstances to
cause the death of the person assaulted. What the Court has to see is
whether the act, irrespective of its result, was done with the intention or
knowledge and under such circumstances that, if one by that act caused
death, he would be guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to
murder. If an accused does not intend to cause death or any bodily
injury, which he knows to be likely to cause death or even to cause
such bodily injury as is sufficient, in the ordinary course of nature to
cause death, Section 308 IPC would not apply. It depends upon the
facts and circumstances of each case whether the accused had the
intention to cause death or knew in the circumstances that his act was
going to cause death. The nature of weapon used, the intention
expressed by the accused at the time of the act, the motive of
commission of offence, the nature and size of the injuries, the parts of
the body of the victim selected for causing injuries, severity of the
blow or blows and the conduct of the accused are important factors
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: Not only that PW-1 rushed to his house to save himself, the accused
persons chased him to his house and continued beating him and while
so beating they were telling each other to kill him. Similarly, PW-2 has
also deposed that accused persons caught hold of his son i.e. PW-1 Sh.
Raman Chahal, accused Rajesh brought iron rod from his house and hit
the same on his head. Not only PW-1 was attacked with the iron rod,
accused persons attacked him as well as his mother i.e. PW-3 Nirmala
who tried to save him. PW-3 Nirmala has also deposed that when she
asked accused Rajesh as to what happened, accused Tirath Yadav told
his son Rajesh to bring the rod upon which accused Rajesh
immediately went inside the house and brought an iron rod and hit the
same on the head of his son i.e. PW-1 Raman Chahal. When she tried
to resist the same, accused Rajesh hit her as well with the said iron rod
on his head and blood oozed out of her head. Secondly, as per the Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: 15. In view of the aforesaid discussion, it is hereby held that
prosecution has successfully proved that it was accused persons namely
Rajesh Yadav, Rakesh Yadav, Ashok Yadav, Tirath Yadav and
Saraswati Devi in furtherance of their common intention had beaten
Sh. Surender, Smt. Nirmala and Sh. Raman Chahal and further caused
injuries on their heads with iron rods under such circumstances that if
death of Sh. Surender, Smt. Niramala and Sh. Raman Chahal would
have caused, they will be guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to
murder. Henceforth accused persons namely Rajesh Yadav, Rakesh
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: