IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH,
 SHIMLA

 Cr. Appeal No. 280 of 2012. . Reserved on : 20th August, 2016. Date of Decision: 29th August, 2016. The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Rajiv Sharma, Judge.
 The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Judge. Whether approved for reporting? Yes. For the Appellant: Mr. P.M. Negi, Deputy A. G.

 For the Respondents: Mr. Adarsh Sharma, Advocate. _______________________________________________________

 Per Sureshwar Thakur, Judge

 The instant appeal stands directed by the

 State of H.P. against the judgment of the learned

 Additional Sessions Judge, Ghumarwin, District Bilaspur,

 Himachal Pradesh, rendered on 03.12.2011 in Sessions

 trial No. 18/7 of 2010, whereby, it acquitted the

 accused/respondents for offences punishable under ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 2 Sections 366 , 376 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code

 (hereinafter referred to as the " IPC "). 2. The facts relevant to decide the instant case

 . are that the law enforcing machinery was set out in

 motion in this case pursuant to the statement given by

 the prosecutrix under Section 154 Cr.P.C. stating that she

 of
 is running a Beauty Parlor under the name and style of

 Mona Beauty Parlor and the Karyana shop of accused
 rt
 Saurabh Mehta alias Rauni is situated near the Beauty

 Parlor due to which she is having talking terms with

 Rauni. On 03.01.2010, she received a telephonic call

 from Rauni informing that today is his birthday and he

 has arranged a party at Pin Valley Hotel, as such, she

 accompanied Rauni in his Wagnor-R to Hotel Pin Vally at

 about 3.00 p.m. Both of them were in the vehicle. At Pin

 Valley Hotel Rauni offered a cup of coffee to her. But, no

 party was organized there. Thereafter, she was brought

 to room and he requested to have sexual intercourse with

 him. But, she refused. Accused Saurabh Mehta promised

 to marry her. Thereafter, he committed sexual

 intercourse with her. After 15 minutes Rauni left the room ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 3 and when she was coming out of the room she noticed

 that from bathroom of the said room, Ajay Soni alias Aju

 who is running a Mobile shop at Gurudwara chowk,

 . Bilaspur came out and she inquired from him as to how

 he came here but Aju did not reply. She asked him as to

 how whether they are blackmailing her. She received a

 of
 telephonic call from Shankey bhaiya who is running

 computer shop at Daira sector informing her that he has
 rt
 seen her obscene video clip with Rauni on the mobile of a

 boy. Rauni committed rape with her by making a false

 promise to marry her after conspiring with Aju and

 prepared her obscene video clip and blackmailed her. On the basis of aforesaid statement of the prosecutrix,

 the FIR was registered in the police station concerned

 against the accused. The police started investigations in

 the matter. During the course of investigations, the police

 completed all the codal formalities and arrested the

 accused. Report of the FSL was procured. Statements of

 the witnesses were recorded. 3. On conclusion of investigations, into the

 offences, allegedly committed by the accused, a report ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 4 under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was

 prepared and filed in the competent Court. 4. The accused were charged by the learned trial

 . Court for theirs committing offences punishable under Sections 366 , 376 and 120-B of the IPC. In proof of the

 prosecution case, the prosecution examined 24

 of
 witnesses. On conclusion of recording of the prosecution

 evidence, the statements of the accused under Section
 rt
 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure were recorded by

 the trial Court, in which the accused claimed innocence

 and pleaded false implication. However, they did not

 lead any defence evidence. 5. On an appraisal of evidence on record, the

 learned trial Court, returned findings of acquittal in favour

 of the accused/respondents herein. 6. The State of H.P. stands aggrieved by the

 judgment of acquittal recorded by the learned trial Court. The learned Additional Advocate General has concertedly

 and vigorously contended qua the findings of acquittal

 recorded by the learned trial Court standing not based on

 a proper appreciation of evidence on record, rather, ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 5 theirs standing sequelled by gross mis-appreciation of

 material on record. Hence, he contends qua the findings

 of acquittal being reversed by this Court in the exercise of

 . its appellate jurisdiction and theirs being replaced by

 findings of conviction. 7. On the other hand, the learned defence

 of
 counsel has with considerable force and vigour,

 contended qua the findings of acquittal recorded by the
 rt
 Court below standing based on a mature and balanced

 appreciation of evidence on record and theirs not

 necessitating interference, rather theirs meriting

 vindication. 8. This Court with the able assistance of the

 learned counsel on either side, has, with studied care and

 incision, evaluated the entire evidence on record. 9. The prosecutrix alleged in her statement

 recorded under Section 154 of the Cr.P.C., comprised in

 Ex.PW2/A of accused Saurabh Mehta alias Rauni under a

 false allurement of marriage eliciting her consent for

 holding her to sexual intercourse. She alleges therein of

 her consent to the accused for his holding her to sexual ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 6 intercourse when emanated from a false pretentious

 allurement of marriage, it holds no legal worth. Also, she

 alleges therein of the penal sexual misdemeanors

 . perpetrated on her person by the accused rendering him

 liable for punishment. The relevant evidence which is

 enjoined to be delved into for disinterring therefrom the

 of
 germane trite factum of the accused holding a false

 promise to marry her stands embedded in the
 rt
 testification of the prosecutrix. She in her testification

 makes a loud echoing therein of hers on 3.01.2010 on

 receiving a telephonic call from accused Saurabh Mehta,

 whereby he intimated her qua his birthday falling on the

 day aforesaid also requested her to join him at a party at

 Pin Valley Hotel, request whereof stood acceded to by her

 leading her to in the Wagnor-R of accused Saurabh Mehta

 accompany him to Pin Valley Hotel. On their arrival at

 3.00 p.m. at the place aforesaid, whereat after theirs

 sipping coffee, they proceeded to room No. 703 of the

 Hotel, wherein she testifies of the accused requesting her

 to sexually access her, request whereof initially stood

 refused by her, whereafter accused Saurabh Mehta ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 7 stands testified by her to promise to marry her leading

 her to succumb to his sexual misdemeanor. She proceeds

 to testify of on 15 minutes elapsing since her departure

 . from room No.703 of Pin Valley Hotel, hers noticing the

 factum of co-accused Ajay Soni egressing from the bath

 room attached to room No.703 wherefrom whom she

 of
 inquired the reason of his occupying the bathroom,

 endeavour whereof did not evince any satisfactory reply
 rt
 from co-accused Ajay rather his maintaining silence. On

 3.3.2010, she received a telephonic call from Shankey

 alias Akshay apprising her qua his sighting on the mobile

 of a boy her obscene video clippings with accused

 Saurabh Mehta, whereupon she lodged the FIR qua the

 occurrence of 3.1.2010 on 3.3.2010. Since a hiatus of

 two months has apparently occurred since the alleged

 incident of 3.1.2010, factum aforesaid is per se a visible

 display of the prosecutrix concocting the factum of hers

 succumbing to the sexual overtures of the accused on

 the accused holding a false allurement of marrying her. She has not made any loud echoings in her testification

 of the accused despite holding her to sexual intercourse ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 8 on 3.1.2010 under his holding a false allurement of

 marriage to her, his thereafter on her beseechings upon

 him to marry her, his making a refusal. The absence of

 . the aforesaid echoings in her testification renders waned

 the ascription by her in the FIR of hers succumbing to the

 sexual overtures of the accused on the latter holding a

 of
 false allurement of marrying her, contrarily, the

 occurrence in her testification qua hers proceeding to
 rt
 lodge an FIR qua the occurrence which allegedly took

 place on 3.1.2010 only on Shankey alias Akshay apprising

 her qua his sighting on the mobile of a boy a video clip

 holding portrayals of her comprising her chastity vis-a-vis

 accused Saurabh Mehta, also her testifying qua dehors

 the aforesaid intimation qua the facet aforesaid purveyed

 to her by Shankey she would not have lodged the FIR is a

 forthright display of hers prevaricating the factum of hers

 succumbing to his sexual overtures under any pretext of

 marriage offered to her by the accused. Also PW-6, her

 father conceding to the factum of theirs lodging the FIR

 merely to salvage their prestige also his conceding to the

 factum of theirs lodging the FIR qua the incident of ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 9 3.1.2010 merely on hear say, amplifyingly scuttles the

 sinew of the revelations constituted by the prosecutrix in

 the apposite FIR comprised in Ex.PW21/A.

 . 10. Be that as it may Shankey alais Akshay, PW-3,

 who on 3.3.2010 apprised the prosecutrix qua his

 sighting obscene video clipings of the prosecutrix with

 of
 accused Saurabh, not supporting the prosecution case

 also with the father of the prosecutrix feigning ignorance
 rt
 qua the purported obscene video clippings contained in

 the CD besides PW-7, the mother of the prosecutrix

 making a communication in her deposition qua theirs

 proceeding to lodge the apposite FIR on information

 purveyed by Akshay alias Shankey is a loud display of the

 lodging of the FIR standing prodded by PW-3 Akshay

 Kumar alias Shankey, who too has not supported the

 prosecution case, on his purportedly purveying a false

 information to the prosecutrix qua his sighting the

 obscene video clippings of the prosecutrix with accused

 Saurabh Mehta. The aforesaid train of events foment an

 inference from this Court of the FIR lodged qua the

 occurrence of 03.01.2010 on 03.03.2010 hence with a ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 10 procrastinated inordinate delay of more than two months

 elapsing therefrom standing not stirred by the prosecutrix

 succumbing to the sexual overtures of accused Saurabh

 . Mehta on his holding a false allurement of marriage to

 her rather its institution standing stimulated by as

 deposed by PW-6 besides deposed by the prosecutrix to

 of
 salvage their prestige, prestige whereof stood bruised by

 the afore-referred information purveyed by Shankey to

 the
 rt
 prosecutrix. Concomitantly the truth of the

 allegations constituted therein stands eroded. 11. Moreover, the prosecutrix has also conceded

 qua the factum of accused Saurabh Mehta holding her to

 sexual intercourse in the month of December, 2009

 whereat she did not lodge the apposite FIR qua the

 incident aforesaid. Her omission to lodge the apposite

 FIR qua the incident of sexual intercourse to which she

 stood subjected to by accused Saurabh Mehta in the

 month of December, 2009, foists a derivative of thereat

 hers consensually succumbing to the sexual

 misdemeanors, if any, of the accused bereft of the

 accused holding any false allurement of marrying her. The apt sequitur ensuing from the deduction aforesaid is

 of this Court standing fomented to hold qua hers

 proceeding to room No.703 of Pin Valley Hotel on

 . 3.1.2010 along with the accused, with hers holding

 knowledge of the accused leading her thereat with an

 intention to hold her to sexual intercourse, given both

 of
 previously consensually holding sexual intercourse in the

 month of December, 2009. Also the factum of hers in the
 rt
 company of the accused proceeding to the aforesaid

 room of Pin Valley Hotel gives momentum to a deduction

 of thereby hers holding consent to the accused to hold

 her to sexual intercourse bereft of hers standing

 purveyed a false pretence of marriage by the accused. Furthermore, with no echoings occurring in her

 testification of the accused subsequent to 3.1.2010

 refusing to marry her rather as aforestated the

 stimulation for hers to lodge the FIR standing afforded by

 a false information purveyed to her by PW-3 Akshay

 Kumar alias Shankey qua the aforesaid purportedly

 sighting on the mobile of a boy her obscene video

 clippings with accused Saurabh Mehta, is for reiteration a ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 12 categorical display of hers, alike in the month of

 December, 2009 to also on 3.1.2010 proceeding to

 consensually hold sexual intercourse with the accused

 . bereft of any elements or traits of the accused holding

 any false allurement of marrying her. Predominantly,

 with the prosecutrix conceding in her deposition of hers

 of
 standing engaged with one Vivek Sankhyan of Sarkaghat

 is a vivid display of hers contriving the factum of accused
 rt
 Saurabh Mehta purveying a false offer to marry her

 whereupon she goaded to succumb to his sexual

 overtures, conspicuously when given hers standing

 engaged with one Vivek Shankhyan also when there is no

 evidence of her betrothal with the aforesaid standing

 severed, he hence holding no intention to tie the nuptials

 knot with her, stains hence with a vice of falsity the offer

 of the accused to marry her wherefrom she purportedly

 stood prodded to succumb to his sexual overtures,

 prominently when hence the impact of the purported

 allurement of marriage proffered to her by the accused

 would naturally gain no impact upon her nor she would

 hence stand influenced by it contrarily she is to be ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 13 construed to consensually succumb to the sexual

 overtures of accused Saurabh Mehta. Moreover, with the

 prosecutrix testifying qua accused Saurabh Mehta

 . requesting her to permit his friend to hold coitus with

 her, bespeaks the trite factum of the accused Saurabh

 Mehta not holding any false allurement of marrying her. of
 Contrarily, the aforesaid testification is magnificatory of

 the factum of the prosecutrix when hence acquiesces qua
 rt
 hers thereupon holding the capacity to discern the

 genuineness of the allurement of marriage purveyed to

 her by accused Saurabh Mehta, obviously, when she

 hence overlooked the spuriousness of the offer of

 marriage purveyed to her by accused Saurabh Mehta,

 she is defacilitated to espouse of hers succumbing to the

 sexual overtures of the accused under his purveying a

 false allurement of marriage to her rather her

 succumbings to his sexual overtures emanating from hers

 volitionally meteing consent to him. 12. The sequel of the aforesaid discussion is of

 hence the charge of conspiracy framed against co- accused Ajay Soni under Section 120-B of the IPC also ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 14 staggering besides foundering. Even though there is a

 ascription to him of an inculpatory role of his capturing

 on his cell/mobile phone obscene postures of the

 . prosecutrix with accused Saurabh Mehta alias Rauni

 given his occupying the bathroom attached to room

 No.703 of the Pin Valley Hotel, which he purportedly

 of
 circulated amongst his friends yet the aforesaid

 inculpatory role ascribed to him stands demolished by
 rt
 the factum of the prosecutrix and her father testifying

 qua theirs not sighting the aforesaid purported obscene

 video clippings also with PW-3, who purveyed intimation

 to the prosecutrix qua his sighting her purported obscene

 video clipping with accused Saurabh Mehta, not

 supporting the prosecution case besides PW-4 denying

 the factum of his receiving any obscene video clipping on

 his cell phone, whereas both the aforesaid stand postured

 by the Investigating Officer to be the only persons who

 held knowledge qua the purported circulation by co- accused Ajay Kumar of the purported obscene video

 clippings of the prosecutrix with accused Saurabh Mehta,

 nails a conclusion of the charge of conspiracy framed ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:05:57 :::HCHP 15 against co-accused Ajay Soni under Section 120-B falling

 apart. 13. For the reasons which have been recorded

 . hereinabove, this Court holds that the learned trial Court

 below has appraised the entire evidence on record in a

 wholesome and harmonious manner apart therefrom the

 of
 analysis of the material on record by the learned trial

 Court does not suffer from any perversity or absurdity of
 rt
 mis-appreciation and non appreciation of the evidence on

 record, rather it has aptly appreciated the material

 available on record. 15. Consequently, there is no merit in the

 instant appeal and it is accordingly dismissed. In sequel,

 the impugned judgment is maintained and affirmed. Records be sent back forthwith.