The present appeal filed by the assessee is directed against the
 order passed by the Principal Commissioner of Income-tax-9,
 Mumbai (for short 'Principal CIT) under Section 263 of the Income
 Tax Act, 1961 (for short 'Act'), dated 20.03.2015. The assessee
 Page |2 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

assailing the order passed under Sec. 263 by the Principal CIT, had
raised before us the following grounds of appeal:- The Appellant craves leave to add, amend, vary, omit or substitute any of the
 aforesaid grounds of appeal at any time before or at the time of hearing of the
 appeal. The appellant prays that appropriate relief be granted based on the said
 grounds of appeal and the facts and circumstances of the case." 2. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that the assessee
company which is engaged in the business of setting up of Telecom
Towers and Infrastructure services had e-filed its return of income for
Assessment Year: 2008-09 on 27.09.2008, declaring a loss of
Rs.48,93,08,013/-. The assessee thereafter filed a revised return of
income on 30.03.2010, declaring a loss of Rs.42,84,44,001/-. The
revised return of income filed by the assessee was processed as such
under Sec. 143(1) of the „Act‟ on 26.04.2010. The case of the assessee
 Page |3 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

was thereafter taken up for scrutiny assessment under the Computer
Assisted Selection of Cases for Scrutiny (for short „CASS‟) and
assessment under Sec. 143(3) was framed vide assessment order
passed under Sec. 143(3) , dated. 29.12.2010 accepting the revised
loss of Rs. 42,84,44,001/- returned by the assessee. That as the
income determined under the normal provisions of the „Act‟ and the
„book profit‟ determined under Sec. 115JB , both were negative,
therefore, the income of the assessee was taken at Rs. Nil. 3. That subsequent to the culmination of the assessment
proceedings in the hands of the assessee, the A.O was in receipt of
Factual Report (confidential) information prepared by the Addl. DIT
(Inv.), New Delhi, which revealed that the name of the assessee had
appeared in the course of the investigations in the 2G Scam. That the
information received by the A.O revealed that a consideration of Rs.
700 crores that was paid by the assessee to Loop Telecom Limited in
the Financial Year 2007-08, was subsequently refunded to the
assessee. As per the information, the aforesaid transaction was not
properly recorded in the books of account of the assessee. The A.O
was further informed that the assessee had failed to fully and truly
disclose all the material facts in respect of the nature, mode and
source of the amount of Rs. 700 crores paid to Loop Telecom Limited.
The A.O further observed that the assessee had increased its share
capital during the year under consideration from Rs. 1,00,000/- to Rs.
19,20,96,800/-, however, no evidence was placed on record by the
assessee to establish the identity, genuineness, creditworthiness,
nature, mode and source of the transaction with reference to increase
in share capital during the year under consideration. It was further
observed by the A.O that though the assessee had increased its
Reserves and Surplus during the year under consideration by an
 Page |4 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

amount of 179,79,71,200/-, however, no evidence was filed on record
which could enable the A.O to establish the identity, genuineness and
creditworthiness of the transaction with reference to the increase in
the Reserves and Surplus during the year under consideration. It was
further gathered by the A.O that though the assessee had during the
year under consideration increased its Current liabilities from Rs.
42,40,78,321/- to Rs. 264,42,29,879/-, however, the assessee had
failed to come forth with a full and true disclosure in respect of the
nature, mode and source of the current liabilities amounting to Rs.
264,42,29,879/-. The A.O inter alia for the said reasons, holding a
bonafide belief that the income of the assessee chargeable to tax had
escaped assessment, therefore, reopened the its case under Sec. 147 of the „Act‟. 4. That a perusal of the „reasons to believe‟ recorded by the A.O for
reopening the case of the assessee revealed that as a result of the
investigations in the 2G scam, information was shared with the office
of the A.O that the transactions involving payment of an amount of
Rs.700 crores by the assessee to Loop Telecom Limited, followed by a
refund of the same, were not properly recorded in the books of
account of the assessee. Thus, one of the primary reasons that had
weighed in the mind of the A.O after deliberating on the aforesaid
information received by him was that there was a failure on the part of
the assessee to fully and truly disclose all the material facts in respect
of the nature, mode and source of the amount of Rs. 700 crores paid
by the assessee to Loop Telecom Limited during the Financial year
2007-08. Thus, to be brief and explicit, the nature, mode and source
of the amount involved in the transaction of Rs. 700 crores between
the assessee and Loop Telecom Limited, having not been fully and
truly disclosed by the assessee, thus, was required to be deliberated
 Page |5 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

upon by the A.O in order to bring to tax the corresponding income,
which had either wholly or partially escaped assessment. 5. The A.O reopened the case of the assessee under Sec. 147 of the
Income tax Act, 1961 and a notice u/s 148 , dated 20.02.2012 was
issued and served on the assessee. The genesis of the issue leading to
the reopening of the case was considered at length by the A.O in the
body of the reassessment order. It was observed by the A.O that on the
basis of an order dated 16.12.2010 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India in Civil Appeal No. 10660 of 2010, arising out of a petition for
„Special leave to appeal‟ (Civil Appeal No. 24873/2010) in the matter
Centre for Public Interest Litigation and Others Vs. The Union of
India and others the Hon‟ble Apex Court with a view to ensure that in
the serious matter of 2G spectrum scam a comprehensive and
coordinated investigation be conducted by CBI and the enforcement
directorate without any hindrance, had issued certain specific
directions. The A.O further observed that pursuant to the
investigations carried out on the basis of the aforesaid order of the
Hon‟ble Apex Court, the CBI had filed a charge sheet dated
21.10.2009 in the court of Special Judge (2G spectrum), Patiala House
Court, New Delhi, which clearly named the petitioner and its directors
as the accused and set out the details of the conspiracy hatched by
the accused which had resulted in loss to the public exchequer. The
A.O deliberating on the facts before him, observed that in furtherance
of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court monitored investigation, in or about
August 2011, the CIT-V, Mumbai had received a secret/confidential
communication containing factual report from the Directorate of
Income-Tax investigations, New Delhi, on the basis of investigations
carried out by the said directorate, naming the petitioner as being
involved in the transactions having tax implications, which were
 Page |6 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

required to be verified by the assessing officers by carrying out further
verifications/investigations by initiating necessary action, as deemed
fit under the Income Tax Act . It was thus stated by the A.O that in the
background of the aforesaid development and information obtained
there from, and in order to assist in the Hon‟ble Supreme Court
monitored investigations, a Notice u/s 148 was issued to the assessee. 6. Be that as it may, the primary issue for reopening of the case of
the assessee was to deliberate on the nature, mode and source of the
amount involved in the transaction of Rs. 700 crores between the
assessee and Loop Telecom Limited, in respect of which there was a
failure on the part of the assessee to come forth with a full and true
disclosure of all the material facts having a bearing on its tax liability.
The A.O in the backdrop of the aforesaid facts called upon the
assessee to furnish complete details of the source from where the
amount of Rs. 700 crores was advanced to M/s Loop Telecom Limited,
in order to facilitate making of payment by the latter towards licence
fees for grant of Unified Access Service License (for short 'UASL') to
the Department of Telecommunications (for short 'DOT'). The A.O
also called upon the assessee to explain as to why no interest income
was charged from Loop Telecom Limited. The assessee in compliance
to the aforesaid query raised by the A.O, therein, vide its reply dated
02.11.2012, furnished details as regards the nature and source of the
amount of Rs. 700 crores that was advanced to Loop Telecom Limited,
as under:- The assessee received interest of Rs.22.56 crores on the above amount which
 was accounted in AY: 2009-10. As the assessee had received the funds from
 ECHL as share application money towards subscription of shares, no interest
 was payable." 7. The A.O deliberating on the aforesaid reply of the assessee,
observed that the assessee had advanced a sum of Rs.700 crores to
Loop Telecom Limited in order to secure a business deal entered into
with the said company for providing passive Infrastructure facility and
maintenance services in all the 21 circles allotted to it. The A.O while
enquiring into the source of the Share application money, as per the
information provided by the assessee, resorted to getting the same
verified by making a reference to the Mauritius Revenue Authorities
through the Foreign Tax and Tax Research (for short 'FT & TR')
division of the CBDT, under the provisions of the relevant Articles
dealing with "Exchange of Information" of the Double Taxation
Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) entered into between the said countries,
 Page |8 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

i.e Mauritius and India. The A.O further referred to the flow of inter-
company funds which were received by the assessee and advanced to
Loop Telecom Ltd., as under: 8. That it was observed by the A.O that though the assessee had
claimed to have received a sum of Rs. 726.12 crores from Essar
Communications Holding Limited, Mauritius (for short 'ECHL'),
towards share subscriptions of the assesses equity by ECHL within a
time span of two days, i.e on 10.01.2008 and 11.01.2008, however,
out of the same an amount of Rs.700 crores was transferred as an
advance to Loop Telecom limited on the said respective dates itself. It
was observed by the A.O that the shares could only be allotted to
ECHL, Mauritius, only on 19.03.2008, i.e exactly after two months
from the date of receipt of share application money. Thus, the A.O in
the backdrop of the aforesaid facts held a strong conviction that the
flow of funds were inescapably directed to make available funds to
Loop Telecom Limited, in order to facilitate making of payment of
UASDL fees to the DOT. The A.O further referring to the facts
pertaining to the termination of memorandum of understanding (for
short „MOU‟) between the assessee and Loop Telecom Limited,
observed that as the UASL license could not be allotted to the latter
within the time frame stipulated in the „MOU‟, therefore, the amount
paid to Loop Telecom Limited was required to be refunded back
alongwith interest at the rate of 20% on the basis of daily running
account balance between the aforesaid parties. The A.O holding a
strong conviction that the sum of Rs. 700 crores paid to Loop Telecom
Limited could safely be characterised as a loan on which interest was
 Page |9 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

liable to be charged @ 20% during the year under consideration,
therefore, computed the correlating interest of Rs.29,27,77,777/- on
the aforesaid amount of Rs. 700 crore. The A.O after making certain
other additions reassessed the total loss of the assessee at
Rs.12,98,66,740/-, vide his order passed under Sec. 143(3) r.w.s 147,
dated. 28.03.2013. 9. The Commissioner of Income Tax-8-Mumbai (for short 'CIT'),
after the culmination of the aforesaid reassessment proceedings by the
A.O vide his order u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 147, dated 28.03.2013, called for
the records of the assessee. The CIT after deliberating on the records
of the assessee, therein being of the view that the reassessment order
passed by the A.O was erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the
revenue, thus, vide his Show Cause Notice (for short 'SCN'), dated
09.09.2014, called upon the assessee to explain as to why the same
may not be revised under Sec. 263 of the „Act‟. The reason seeking for
revision of the reassessment order by the CIT, to the extent the same
survives and had been assailed before us, pertains to the transaction
involving verification of the source of payment of an amount of Rs.700
crores by the assessee to Loop Telecom Limited, was on the following
grounds: P a g e | 11 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT (iv). That as per the information received from the Mauritius
Revenue Authorities, out of 12,43,07,689/ - US dollars
(2,95,90,743/- US dollars returned) claimed by the assessee
to have been received from ECHL , only 85,00,000 US dollars
were received through the bank accounts of ECHL. The
information received from the Mauritius Revenue Authorities
revealed that the balance amount was paid directly by M/s
Essar Global Limited ( for short 'EGL'), the holding
company of ECHL, directly to the assessee. It was further
observed by the CIT that even 85,00,000/-US dollars
received by the assessee from ECHL was not belonging to
ECHL, but was claimed to be given by EGL to ECHL. (v). That it was observed by the CIT that there was no
information as to how the following money had been received
by the assessee: P a g e | 12 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT (vi). That neither the source of receipt of share application
money received by the assessee from ECHL was properly
explained by the assessee, nor the same could be gathered
from the information received by the A.O from the Mauritius
Revenue Authorities. There was a lso no evidence as to how
the money was acquired by EGL. 10. Thus, on the basis of the aforesaid reasons the C IT held
a strong conviction that the action of the A.O in treating the
sources of money claimed by the assessee to have been
received from ECHL as properly explained while passing the
reassessment order, was backed up absence of any evidence
about the source and capacity of the persons giving the
money and the genuineness of the transaction . The CIT
further observed that as the money credited in the books of
account of the assessee and the capacity of the persons
giving the money and genuineness of the transaction were
neither verified by the A.O nor proved to his satisfaction,
therefore, the order of the A.O was not only erroneous but
also prejudicial to the interest of the revenue. 11. The assessee in its reply to the „SCN‟, submitted before
the CIT that the A.O had during the course of the
reassessment proceedings called for all the relevant details
in respect of the share application money received by the
assessee, deliberated on the same and finding them well in
order, had thus not drawn any adver se inferences in the
hands of the assessee. It was further averred by the
assessee that even otherwise as per the settled position of
law, where the identity of the shareholders or persons who
 P a g e | 13 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

have subscribed to the share application/share capital of a
corporate entity is established, then no addition in respect
of such amounts would be called for under Sec. 68 in the
hands of the corporate entity. That as regards the
information received by the A.O from the Mauritius Re venue
Authorities, it was submitted t hat as the same was not made
available to the assessee, therefore, it was unable to
comment as regards the same. Th at replying to the
observations of the CIT as regards the amount of USD
10,00,00,000 received by the assessee directly from EGL, it
was submitted that the said amount was received on behalf
of ECHL and against the said amount shares were issued to
ECHL. The assessee submitted before the CIT that
submissions as regards receipt of the aforesaid amount from
EGL on behalf of ECHL and allotment of shares against the
same by the assessee to ECHL were furnished with the A.O
during the course of the reassessment proceedings, which
after deliberations and necessary verifications on his part,
was accepted by him. The assessee further submitted that a s
per the mandate of Sec. 68 , now when the first and the
immediate source of the cash credits , i.e share application
money received by it was explained to the satisfaction of the
A.O during the course of the reassessment proceedings,
therefore, it could no t be called upon to explain the source
of sources of the share application money received by it.
Thus, in the backdrop of the aforesaid submissions the
assessee had tried to impress upon the CIT that now when
the onus cast upon it in respect of the source of the share
application money was discharged to the satisfaction of the
A.O in terms of the mandate of Sec. 68 , therefore, the
 P a g e | 14 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

reassessment order passed by the A.O on the said count
could not be held to be erroneous and prejudicial to the
interest of reve nue. 12. That in the meantime the jurisdiction over the case of
the assessee was transferred from the CIT -8, Mumbai to the
Principal Commissioner of Income Tax -9, Mumbai (for
short Principal CIT) . The Principal CIT after deliberating on
the contentions of the assessee in the backdrop of the facts
borne from the record, however, did not find favour with the
same and concluded that the reassessment order passed by
the A.O under Sec. 143(3) r.w.s 147, dated. 28.03.2013 was
erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the revenue, on
the following grounds: 143(3), dated. 29.12.2010, was reopened under Sec. 147 ,
primarily for the reason that the information received from
the DGIT(Inv),New Delhi, revealed that the source of
investments made by the assessee by way of advances given
to Loop Telecom Limited was not properly examined/verified
by the A.O while framing the assessment. Thus, as the
primary issue which had weighed in the mind of the A.O
while reopening the concluded assessment of the assessee
was to verify the source of the amount of Rs. 700 crores
advanced to Loop Telecom Limited, which as claimed by the
assessee was from the amount of the share application
money of Rs. 726 crores (USD 185 million) received by it
from ECHL, a Mauritius based company, therefore, the A.O
in order to verify the international money trail and source of
 P a g e | 15 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

money made a reference vide letter dated. 22.11.2012 to the
Jt. Secretary, FT & TR Division, CBDT, New Delhi ,
requesting that the information may be obtained from the
authorities in Mauritius under the specific articles dealing
with „Exchange of Information‟ in the respective Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement s between India and
Mauritius. However, the A.O without examining the contents
of the relevant information that was provided by the
Mauritius Revenue Authorities, had passed the
reassessment order under Sec. 143(3) r.w.s 147 of the „Act‟. (ii). That a perusal of the information received from the
Mauritius Revenue Authorities revealed that the same
neither did specify the source of the share application
money invested by ECHL , nor established the capacity or
creditworthiness of ECHL so as to prove the genuineness of
the transaction beyond doubt , in terms of the mandate of Sec. 68 . (iii). The information received from the Mauritius Revenue
Authorities was in itself found to be incomplete, as the same
neither did specify the source nor as to how the money was
received by the assessee company. It was observed by the
Principal CIT that as per the information received from
Mauritius Revenue Authorities, the total disbursement made
by ECHL was of USD 17,12,16,946 from 13.09.2006 to
10.01.2008, therefore, it was beyond comprehension as to
how the same , as accepted by the A.O , explained the alleged
investment of USD 185 million from the said source. P a g e | 16 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT (iv). That though the information received from the
Mauritius Revenue Authorities referred to remittance of part
payment of the investment made by ECHL by its parent
company viz. EGL, which is stated to have been transferred
through American Express Bank Ltd., however, no such
bank account statement as claimed in the report was found
enclosed alongwith the aforesaid information so received. (v). That though it was claimed that there was direct
transfer of funds by EGL on behalf of ECHL out of share
application money receivable by ECHL from EGL, but
however, neither the details as regards the same were made
available on the record by the assessee during the course of
the reassessment proceedings, nor were enquired into by the
A.O. 13. Thus, in the backdrop of the aforesaid facts it was
observed by the Principal CIT that as the A. O had not
examined the information received from the Mauritius
Revenue Authorities, therefore, the same had remained
unverified and not subject to any enquiry by him while
passing the reassessment order. It was further observed by
the Principal CIT that the Authorised representative for the
assessee had during the course of the revision proceedings
categorically admitted before him that neither the A.O had
during the course of the reassessment proceedings raised
any specific queries as regards the a lleged funds received
from EGL, nor any such details were furnished by the
assessee on its own with the A.O. The Principal CIT observed
that it was for the very first time during the course of the
revision proceedings before him, that the assessee had vide
 P a g e | 17 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

its letter dated 15.12.2015 placed on record a copy of the
letter dated. 12.11.2014 received from ECHL , wherein the
latter had confirmed the investment of USD 185 million
towards subscription of shares of the assessee alongwith the
source of the funds of such investment. The assessee again
for the very first time during the course of the revision
proceedings before the Principal CIT, had therein placed on
his record another letter dated. 12.11.2014 received by
ECHL from EGL, alongwith a certificate dated 11.11.2014
issued by Mazars, Chartered Accountants, Mauritius, in
respect of investment of USD 185 million by EGL in ECHL ,
alongwith the source of such funds. Th e Principal CIT
further observed that the assessee during the course of the
revision proceedings had for the very first time placed on his
record another letter dated. 27.01.2015 explaining the
source of the share application money received by the
assessee company from ECHL . It was observed by the
Principal CIT that out of the total amount of USD 185
million, an amount of USD 100 million as claimed by the
assessee was directly remitted by EGL on 09.01.2008 , as
advance towards issue of shares on behalf of ECHL to the
assessee company. The assessee had furthe r submitted
before the Principal CIT that as per the copy of the bank
statement and swift advice forwarded by EGL, the said sum
was paid out of the closure proceeds of the fixed deposit of
USD100 million on 09.01.2008 with ICICI Bank, UK Plc. 14. The Principal CIT in the backdrop of his aforesaid
observations, thus concluded as under: 15. The Principal CIT on the basis of his aforesaid
observations concluded that as the A.O had failed to make
proper enquiries and investigations before accepting the
claim of the assessee as regards the source of the cash
credits in its books of account, therefore, t he reassessment
order passed by the A.O without proper application of mind,
rendered the order passed by him as erroneous and
prejudicial to the interest of the revenue. Thus, in the
backdrop of his aforesaid conviction, the Principal CIT set
aside the reassessment order with a direction to the A.O to
pass a fresh order, as per law, after making necessary
enquiries and investigations and affording reasonable
opportunity of being heard to the assessee. 16. Aggrieved, the assessee had assailed the order passed
by the Principal CIT under Sec. 263 of the „Act‟, before us.
The Authorised representative (for short „A.R‟) for the
 P a g e | 19 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

assessee Sh. Porus F. Kaka, the ld. Senior Counsel, took us
through the „SCN‟, dated. 09.09.2014 that was issued by the
Principal CIT. The ld. A.R taking us through Page No. 3 of
the „SCN‟, submitted that out of the amounts mentioned, it
was only the disbursement made on 09.01.2008 towards
investment in equity shares of USD 70,409 ,257 (out of the
remitted amount of 100,000,000) which pertained to the
year under consideration, while for all the other amounts
were not relatable to the year under consideration . The ld.
A.R submitted that the Principal CIT had initiated the
revision proceedings under Sec. 263 to look into the source s
of the source of the entity from whom the share application
money was received by the assessee . The ld. A.R submitted
that the A.O had during the course of the reassessment
proceedings called for all the relevant details in respect of
the share application money received by the assessee, and
only after deliberating at length on the same to his
satisfaction, not drawn any adverse inferences in the hands
of the assessee. The ld. A.R in order to drive home his
contention that exhaustive details in respect of the share
application money were called for by the A.O during the
course of the reassessment proceedings, and the same were
duly made available on his record by the assessee , thus,
took us through the replies which were filed by the assessee
with the CIT during the course of the revision proceedings,
bringing to his notice the nature of information which was
placed on the record of the A.O. The ld. A.R took us through
the copy of letter dated. 16.10.2014 that was filed by the
assessee with the CIT in its reply to the „SCN‟. It was
submitted by the ld. A.R that the assessee had in the course
 P a g e | 20 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

of the reassessment proceedings f urnished with the A.O the
complete details of the shareholders (name, address and
percentage holding), details of subscribers of the share
capital, number of shares, amount of share capital, amount
of securities premium etc. It was further submitted by the
ld. A.R that the complete details of funding of Rs. 700 crores
advanced by the assessee to Loop Telecom Limited ,
alongwith the details of subscription to share capital and
securities premium were furnished with the A.O. The ld. A.R
submitted that the purp ose of advancing of an amount of Rs.
700 crores to Loop Telecom Limited , in the backdrop of the
tripartite agreement between the assessee, Loop Telecom
Limited and BPL Communications Ltd., was explained at
length to the A.O. That as per the ld. A.R the complete
details of the share application money received by the
assessee from ECHL, a Mauritian company, alongwith the
bank statement evidencing the identity of the share
applicant, genuineness of the infusion of funds by way o f
share application money were furnished to the satisf action
of the A.O. The ld. A.R further took us through the reply
dated. 15.12.2014 furnished by the assessee to the „SCN‟
issued by the CIT. It was averred by the ld. A.R that during
the course of the revision proceedings it was submitted
before the CIT that though the copies of the order sheets
and letter dated 18.03.2013 received by the Foreign Tax &
Research Division, CBDT („FTD‟) from the Mauritius Tax
Authorities were received by the assessee, howev er, the
copies of certain other documents, viz. (i). the letters written
by the A.O to the „FTD‟ to seek details from the Mauritius
Tax Authorities (including letter dated 22.11.2012 and
 P a g e | 21 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

reminder dated. 05.03.2013); (ii). the letter written by FTD
to Mauritius Tax Authorities; and (iii). the letter written by
the FTD to the A.O with respect to the response received
from the Mauritius Tax Authorities , alongwith the date of
receipt of the same by the A.O were however not made
available. The ld. A.R further dr ew our attention to the copy
of the resolutions each dated. 28.05.2008 pertaining to the
allotment of 10000000 equity shares and 45500000 equity
shares of Rs. 10/ - each by the assessee company to Essar
Communication Holding Ltd (ECHL), at a premium of Rs.
90/- per share. The ld. A.R further took us through the copy
of the letter dated. 18.03.2013 which was received by the
Joint Secretary (FT & TR -II) and Competent Authority ,
Foreign Tax & Tax Research Division, New Delhi, from the
Mauritius Revenue Authority. The ld. A.R drew our attention
to Page 2 of the aforesaid letter ( Page 98 of „APB‟), which
revealed that the source of funds received by the assessee
company was the share application money received from the
parent company, viz. EGL, and in lieu of the said remittance
by the latter, shares were allotted by ECHL to EGL. It was
submitted by the ld. A.R that the copy of the bank statement
of American Express Bank Ltd for subscription of USD
85,000,000 was enclosed by t he Mauritius Revenue
Authority, alongwith its aforesaid letter. The ld. A.R
submitted that the aforesaid letter of Mauritius Revenue
Authority further mentioned that the other payments were
made directly by EGL to the assessee on behalf of the
company, viz. ECHL. The ld. A.R further took us through a
certificate dated.11.11.2014 issued by Mauritius based
Mazars, Chartered accountants ( Page 102 of „APB‟) to Essar
 P a g e | 22 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

Global Fund Ltd. (EGL). That as per the said certificate , an
amount of USD 185 million was invested by EGL in the
equity shares of E CHL. As per the certificate, out of the total
amount of USD 185 million , an amount of USD 100 million
was directly remitted by EGL on behalf of EHCL to Essar
Telecom Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (i.e the assessee compan y
as earlier known) on 09.01.2008, while for the balance
amount of USD 85 million was transferred by EGL to ECHL
on 10.01.2008. That as per the certificate the source of the
infusion of USD 185 million was received by EGL through its
overseas Essar entitie s, the ultimate source of which was
the loan raised from Standard Chartered Bank (London). The
ld. A.R had on the basis of his contentions tried to impress
upon us, viz. (i). that the A.O had during the course of the
reassessment proceedings called for all the relevant details
in respect of the share application money , and only after
being satisfied with the source of the share application
money received by the assessee company, had accepted the
same; and (ii). that even otherwise from a perusal of the
letter dated. 18.03.2013 of the Mauritius Revenue Authority,
and the Certificate dated. 11.11.2014 issued by Mauritius
based Mazars, Chartered accountants, the complete details
as regards the nature and source alongwith the genesis of
the amount of USD 185 mil lion received by the assessee as
advance from ECHL for investment in equity shares of the
assessee company was established beyond any scope of
doubt. 17. The ld. A.R took us through the operative part of the
order passed by the Principal CIT. The ld. A.R submitted
 P a g e | 23 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

that the concluded assessment of the assessee that was
framed by the A.O vide his order passed under Sec. 143(3) ,
dated. 29.12.2010, was reopened on the ground that there
was failure on the part of the assessee to fully and truly
disclose all the material facts in respect of the nature, mode
and source of the amount of Rs. 700 crores which was
advanced by the assessee to Loop Telecom Limited. In the
backdrop of the aforesaid facts, it was averred by the ld. A.R
that the revision proce edings had been embarked upon by
the Principal CIT on the ground that the A.O had failed to
verify the source of the share application money of Rs. 726
crores received from ECHL (i.e the amount out of which Rs.
700 crores was paid to Loop Telecom Limited ). It was
submitted by the ld. A.R that it was beyond comprehension
that now when the concluded assessment was reopened for
verifying the nature, mode and source of the share
application money received by the assessee (from which
amount of Rs. 700 crores was given to Loop Telecom
Limited), how could the very i ssue which formed the
foundation of such proceedings would have escaped
attention and not deliberated upon by the A.O during the
course of the reassessment proceedings. It was the case of
the ld. A.R that not only the very basis for initiating the
revision proceedings by the Principal CIT, on the ground
that the A.O had failed to verify the source of the share
application money received by the assessee company from
ECHL, failed on a perusal of the substantial documentary
evidences which were called for by the A.O during the course
of the reassessment proceedings and placed on his record by
the assessee, but also the aforesaid reasoning for initiating
 P a g e | 24 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

the revision proceedings by the Principal CIT was devoid of
any logical reasoning. The ld. A.R rebutted the observations
of the Principal CIT that as the reassessment order was
required to be passed by the A.O latest by 31.03.2013,
therefore, the A.O without waiting for the report of the
Mauritius Revenue Authorities, had thus hushed through
the matter and concluded the reass essment vide his order
dated 28.03.2013. The ld. A.R submitted that the said
observation of the Principal Commissioner of Income -tax was
bereft of any force of law. It was submitted b y the ld. A.R
that as per the clearly worded Sec. 153(4)(viii) , the period
falling between the making of a reference by the competent
authority, till the date of receipt of information by the C IT or
the Principal CIT, or a period of one year, whichever is less,
was excluded for computing the period of limitation for
framing of assessment by the A.O. The ld. A.R taking
support of the aforesaid settled position of law , submitted
that it was incorrect on the part of the Principal CIT to hold
that the A.O appre hending barring of the time limitation
contemplated under the law for passing of the reassessment
order, had thus hushed through the proceedings . It was
submitted by the ld. A.R that as a matter of fact, the A.O
after thorough application of mind to t he facts and issue
before him had framed the reassessment, being well aware
that the time limitation for passing of the reassessment
order already stood extended on a reference having been
made by the Competent authority to the Mauritius Revenue
Authority. The ld. A.R submitted that from a perusal of the
report received on 28.03.2013 by the Joint Secretary
(FT&TR) Division, CBDT, New Delhi, from the Mauritius
 P a g e | 25 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

Revenue Authority, it could safely be gathered that the
source of the share application money recei ved by the
assessee company from ECHL was found to be well in order.
The ld. A.R in order to fortify his aforesaid contention took
us through a letter dated. 13.08.2014, which we find is a
letter addressed by the CIT-5, Mumbai to the CIT-8,
Mumbai, while transferring the assessment folder of the
assessee to the latters office. That in the aforesaid letter it
was stated by the CIT-5, Mumbai that a perusal of the report
received from Mauritius Revenue Authorit y revealed that
there was no adverse report in respect of receipt of share
application money by the assessee from EC HL, the source of
which was the amounts received from EGL. The ld. A.R drew
our attention to the observation of the C IT-5, Mumbai,
wherein the latter had advised the C IT-8, Mumbai, that in
the absence of any adverse report from the Mauritius
Revenue Authority, there was no necessity of making
addition in the year under consideration or reopening of the
case of the assessee for the earlier years. The ld. A.R in the
backdrop of the aforesa id facts vehemently submitted that
the validity of the revision proceedings could be gathered
from the fact that the revenue in itself was satisfied that the
source of the sha re application money received by the
assessee was found to be well in order, and in the absence
of an adverse report , no proceedings for the year under
consideration were called for in the hands of the assessee. 18. The ld. A.R further taking support from the judgment s
of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT Vs. Lovely
Ex ports ( P) Ltd. (2008) 216 CTR (SC) 195 and CIT Vs,
 P a g e | 26 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

Stellar Investment Ltd. (2001) 251 ITR 263 (SC) , therein
averred that as held by the Hon‟ble Apex Court that where
the share application money is received by the assessee
company from alleged bogus shareholders who had been
identified, the department is free to proceed to reopen their
individual assessments in accordance with law, but the
amount of the share application money cannot be regarded
as the undisclosed income of the assessee co mpany. The ld.
A.R further relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble High
Court of Delhi in the case of CIT Vs. Sophia Finance Ltd. (1994) 205 ITR 98 (Del) , wherein it was held that if the
shareholders are identified and it is established that they
have invested money in the purchase of shares, then the
amount received by the company would be regard ed as a
capital receipt. Thus , in the backdrop of the aforesaid
judicial pronouncements it was averred by the ld. A.R that
now when it stood established beyond any scope of doubt,
that the amount of USD 185 million was received by the
assessee company from ECHL by way of share application
money, therefore, in the light of the duly identified
shareholder, viz. ECHL, the amount of share subscription
received by the assessee company could not be assessed as
an unexplained cash credit in the hands of the assessee. 19. The ld. A.R further drew our attention to the f irst
proviso of Sec. 68 , as was made available on the statute vide
the Finance Act, 2012 , w.e.f 01.04.2013. It was submitted
by the ld. A.R that as per the f irst proviso, in case the A.O is
not satisfied with the explanation of the assessee company
as regards the nature and source of the amount credited in
 P a g e | 27 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

its books of account (not being company in which public are
substantially interested) by way of share application money,
share capital or share premium or any such amount by
whatever name called, would bring the assessee company
within the sweep of Sec. 68 in respect of the said amount . It
was averred by the ld. A.R that as the f irst proviso had
prospectively been made available on the statute vide the Finance Act, 2012 , w.e.f 01.04.2013, therefore, the same
would not be applicable to the case of the assessee for the
A.Y. 2008-09. The ld. A.R in order to fortify his contention
that the f irst proviso of Sec. 68 is to be given a prospective
effect, relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court of
Bombay in the case of CIT-1 Vs. M/s Gagandeep
Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 1613 of 2014; dated.
20.03.2017) (Bom), wherein the Hon‟ble High Court had
observed that the proviso of Sec. 68 which was introduced
vide the Finance Act, 2012 w.e.f 1 s t April, 2013, would be
effective only from the Assessment Year 2013 -14 onwards.
Alternatively, the ld. A.R further submitted that the said
f irst proviso would only be applicable where the person in
whose name such credit is recorded in the books of account
of the assessee company is a „resident‟. Thus, it was
submitted by the ld. A.R that for both of the aforesaid
reasons the f irst proviso would not be applicable in the case
of the assessee company. The ld. A.R putting to re st any
scope of revision by the Principal CIT, on the ground that
the A.O had failed to apply the f irst proviso of Sec. 68 ,
further submitted that even if for a moment it was assumed
(not admitted) that the f irst proviso of Sec. 68 was to be
applied retrospectively, even then , as the same was made
 P a g e | 28 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

available on the statute vide the Finance Act, 2012 w.e.f
01.04.2013, and thus was not available before the A.O at the
time when he had passed the reassessment order, viz.
28.03.2013, therefore , the Principal CIT could not have
characterised the reassessment order passed by the A.O as
erroneous for not invoking the f irst proviso, as the same was
not available on the statute at the relevant point of time
when the reassessment order was passed . 20. That it was further submitted by the ld. A.R that
inadequate enquiries by the A.O cannot form a basis for
assumption of jurisdiction by the CIT for revising the order
passed by the A.O. It was thus the contention of the ld. A.R
that though in a case where there was a total non-
application of mind by the A.O , the exercise of revision
jurisdiction by the CIT, would be justified, however, where
the A.O while framing the assessment had raised queries ,
and replies as regards the same were furnished by the
assessee, then the same cannot be characterised as a case
of non-application of mind by the A.O and the Commissioner
of Income -tax would not be justified in dislodging the order
passed by the A.O by invoking his jurisdiction under Sec. 263. The ld. A.R in order to fortif y his aforesaid contention ,
relied upon the following judicial pronouncements: 21. That it was further submitted by the ld. A.R that for
invoking of the jurisdiction for revision under Sec. 263, the
CIT must be satisfied of the existence of the twin conditions
contemplated in the said statutory provision, viz. the
assessment order should be erroneous and prejudicial to the
interest of the revenue. It was further averred by the ld. A.R
that revisional power cannot be invoked by the CIT for
directing a fuller enquiry to find out if the view taken is
erroneous, if a view had already been taken by the A.O after
enquiry. The ld. A.R taking suppo rt from the order of the
Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in the case of
Commissioner of Income -tax, Central -III Vs. Nirav Modi (2016) 71 taxmann.com272 (Bombay) submitted that where
the A.O after making detailed enquiries in respect of certain
cash credits appearing in the books of acc ount of the
assessee, took a view that the assessee had duly proved the
identity, source and creditworthiness of the parties and
accepted the genuineness of the transaction, the C IT without
indicating any doubt as regards the g enuineness of the
evidence produced by the assessee could not revise the order
in exercise of his revisional jurisdiction under Sec. 263. The
ld. A.R further taking support of the aforesaid judicial
pronouncement, submitted that if during the course of th e
assessment proceedings queries were raised by the A.O and
the assessee responded to the same, then even if an
assessment order does not mention the same, it would not
 P a g e | 30 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

mean that the A.O ha d not applied his mind to the issues. In
the backdrop of the afores aid facts, it was thus averred by
the ld. A.R that even a non -speaking order passed by an A.O
cannot form the basis for revision under Sec. 263. The ld.
A.R placed heavy reliance on the judgment of the Hon‟ble
jurisdictional High Court in the case of Nirav Modi (supra),
to support his contention that now when in the present case
the A.O in the course of the reassessment proceedings had
called for, verified and on being satisfied as regards the
source of the share application money , not drawn any
adverse inferences and accepted the claim of the assessee,
therefore, the Principal CIT was not justified in exercising
his revisional jurisdiction, for the reason that there was no
mention of the said exercise carried out by the A.O in the
body of the reassessment order. The ld. A.R submitted that
the „Special Leave Petition‟ filed by the revenue against the
aforesaid judgment of the Hon‟ble High Court had been
dismissed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in The Commissioner
Of Income-tax, Central -III Vs. Nirav Modi (SLP (C).....CC
No(s). 23490/2016; dated. 14.12.2016 . 22. The ld. A.R culminating his contentions, therein
submitted that the Principal CIT had wrongly assumed
jurisdiction in exercise of the powers vested with him under
Sec. 263 and had wrongly set aside the reassessment order
passed by the A.O under Sec. 147 r.w.s 143(3) , for the
following reasons : P a g e | 31 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

143(3) on 29.12.2010, and the reassessment order passed
under Sec. 147 r.w.s 143(3) , dated. 28.03.2013. (ii). That during the course of the reassessment proceedings
exhaustive enquiries as regards the share applica tion money
received by the assessee from ECHL were made by the A.O,
both in India and abroad. (iii). The report received by the Joint Secretary (FT&TR),
Division, CBDT, New Delhi, from the Mauritius Revenue
Authority, was in no way adverse. The ld. A.R in support of
his contention relied on the letter dated. 13.08.2014,
addressed by the CIT-5, Mumbai to the CIT-8, Mumbai,
while transferring the assessment folder to the latters office.
The CIT-5, had observed that a perusal of the information
received from Mauritius Revenue Authorities revealed that
there was no adverse report in respect of receipt of share
application money by the assessee from EC HL, the source of
which was the amounts received from EGL. The C IT-
5,Mumbai, in his said letter had advised the CIT-8,Mumbai,
that in the absence of any adverse report from the Mauritius
Revenue Authority, there was no necessity for making
addition in the year under consideration or reopening of the
earlier years in the case of the assessee . (iv). That no observation had been recorded by the Principal
CIT, which contradicts the information provided by the
assessee or the Maurit ius Revenue Authorities. (v). That the f irst proviso of Sec. 68 which had been made
available on the statute vide the Finance act, 2012, with
prospective effect from 01.04.2013, was not applicable to the
 P a g e | 32 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

case of the assessee for three reasons, viz. (i). the proviso
which was applicable prospectively w.e.f 01.04.2013, thus,
would not apply to the case of the assessee; (ii). the proviso
was applicable only where the person in whose name such
credit is recorded in the books of the company is a
„resident‟, thus, on the said count also was not applicable to
the case of the assessee as the share subscriber, viz. ECHL
was a resident of Maurit us ;and (iii). that even if the proviso
was to be given retrospective applicability, the reassessment
order passed by the A.O on 28.03.2013 could not be revised
for not invoking of the proviso by the A.O, as the same was
not available on the statute at the time when the
reassessment order was passed. 23. Per contra, the ld. Departmental representative (for
short „D.R‟) submitted that as the report from the Mauritius
Revenue Authority which was called for by the A.O , was in
itself received on the day on whic h the reassessment order
was passed by the A.O, viz. 28.03.2013, therefore, the order
passed by the A.O without waiting for and verifying the said
report, clearly rendered the reassessment order passed by
the A.O, without making any enquiry as regards the source
of the share application money , as erroneous and prejudicial
to the interest of the revenue . It was averred by the ld. D.R
that the failure on the part of the A.O to wait for and
consider the report of the Mauritius Revenue Authority , was
clearly a case of a "No enquiry" and not a case of an
"Inadequate enquiry". The ld. D.R in the backdrop of his
aforesaid contentions submitted that the Principal CIT after
duly appreciating that there was non -application of mind
 P a g e | 33 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

and no verification by the A.O, as regards the source of the
amount claimed by the assessee to have been received as
share application money from ECHL, therefore, had rightly
set aside the reassessment order on the said issue, with a
direction to the A.O to adjudicate the same afresh after
making necessary verifications and affording reasonable
opportunity of being heard to the assessee. The ld. D.R in
support of his aforesaid contention relied on the judgment of
the Hon'ble High Court of Madhya Pardesh in the case of CIT Vs. Deepak Kumar Garg (2008) 299 ITR 435 (MP) . The
ld. D.R submitted that as the appeal of the assessee was
devoid and bereft of any force of law, therefore, the same
may be dismissed. The ld. A.R rebutting the aforesaid
contentions of the revenue , submitted that the reply
furnished by the Mauritius Revenue Authorit y was in itself
the conclusion of the enquiry, because the reopening of the
proceedings was in itself started on the said basis. The ld.
A.R while resting his case, averred that as the Principal CIT
had wrongly exercised his revisional jurisdiction, therefore,
the order passed by him under Sec. 263 may be vacated. 24. We have heard the authorised representatives for bot h
the parties, perused the orders of the lower authorities and
the material available on record. We find that the ld. A.R for
the assessee had assailed the validity of the order passed by
the Principal CIT on multiple grounds. Per contra, it is the
case of the ld. D.R that the Principal CIT after deliberating
on the records of the assessee, therein finding that the
reassessment order passed by the A.O under Sec. 147 r.w.s
143(3) on 29.12.2010 was erroneous and prejudicial to the
 P a g e | 34 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

interest of the revenue, had thus rightly revised the order in
exercise of the powers vested with him under Sec. 263. 25. We shall now advert to and deal with the multiple
objections that had been raised by the ld. A.R before us
while assailing the validity of the order of revision passed by
the Principal CIT under Sec. 263, as under:- 700 crores which was advanced by the assessee to Loop
Telecom Limited, the said issue which formed the very
 P a g e | 35 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

foundation of initiation of such reassessment proceedings
itself would had escaped attention and not deliberated upon
by the A.O during the course of the said reassessment
proceedings. We have given a thoughtful consideration to the
aforesaid contention of the ld. A.R. That at the first blush
the contention advanced by the ld. A.R appeared to be very
well reasoned and logical . We though find ourselves to be in
agreement with the ld. A.R that now when the concluded
assessment of the assessee was in itself reopened on the
ground that the assessee had failed to come forth with the
full and true disclos ure of all the material facts in respect
the nature, mode and source of the amount of Rs. 700 crores
which was advanced by the assessee to Loop Telecom
Limited (which was out of the amount of Rs. 726 crores
claimed by the assessee to have been received in advance
from ECHL for making investment in shares of the assessee
company), then if not beyond comprehension, but the least
expected, the A.O while framing the reassessment could not
have lost sight of the said very basis on which the case of
the assessee was reopened . Be that as it may, we cannot
however remain oblivious of fact that mistakes do emerge
from orders passed by the Assessing officers, thus rendering
them amenable for revision by the Commissioner of Income -
tax under Sec. 263, and those passed in the case of a
reopened assessment are no exception. We are of the
considered view that an order passed by the A.O in a
reopened assessment is equally amenable for revision by the
Commissioner of Income -tax in exercise of the powers vested
with him under Sec. 263, as a first time assessment order
passed in the course of a regular assessment would be . We
 P a g e | 36 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

are of the view that this objection raised by the ld. A.R
would loose all relevance, once on the deliberation of the
facts by us herein below , it emerges that the reassessment
order passed by the A.O is erroneous and prejudicial to the
interest of the revenue. (ii). The ld. A.R had further averred before us that the f irst
proviso of Sec. 68 which was made available on the statute
vide the Finance act, 2012, with prospective ef fect from
01.04.2013, was not applicable to the case of the assessee
for three reasons, viz. (i). the proviso which was applicable
prospectively w.e.f 01.01.04.2013, thus, would not apply to
the case of the assessee; (ii). the proviso was applicable only
where the person in whose name such credit is recorded in
the books of the company is a „resident‟, thus, on the said
count also was not applicable to the case of the assessee as
the share subscriber in its case, viz. ECHL from whom share
application money was claimed by the assessee t o have been
received was a resident of Mauritus ; and (iii). that even if
the proviso was to be given retrospective applicability, the
reassessment order passed by the A.O on 28.03.2013 could
not be revised for not invoking of the proviso by the A.O, as
the same was not available on the statute at the tim e when
the reassessment order was passed. The ld. A.R in order to
drive home his contention that the f irst proviso which was
made available on the statute vide the Finance Act, 2012 ,
was applicable prospectively w.e.f 01.04.2013, had relied on
the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in the
case of CIT-1 Vs. M/s Gagandeep Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.
(ITA No. 1613 of 2014; dated. 20.03.2017)(Bom) , wherein
 P a g e | 37 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

it was held that the proviso to Sec. 68 which was introduced
vide the Finance Act, 2012 w.e.f 1 s t April, 2013, would be
effective only from the Assessment Year 2013 -14 onwards.
We are in agreement with the contention of the ld A.R that
the first proviso of Sec. 68 would only be applicable w.e.f
Assessment Year 2013 -14, and as such would not apply to
the case of the assessee for the year under consideration,
viz. Assessment Year 2008 -09. But then, we find that
neither the Principal CIT in his order passed under Sec. 263
had applied the f irst proviso of Sec. 68 to the case of the
assessee, nor is it the case of the revenue before us. We find
that the Principal CIT in his order passed under Sec. 263
had only looked into the basic scheme of Sec. 68 , and in the
backdrop of the facts emerging from the records before him,
had observed that the assessee had failed to satisfy the
conditions contemplated in the basic section itself . We find
that the Principal CIT while deliberating on the records of
the assessee in the course of the revision proceedings, had
merely looked into the satisfaction of the basic conditions
contemplated in the aforesaid statutory provision, viz. Sec.
68 , from the applicability of which the assessee can claim no
escape. We find that the Principal CIT by referring to the
settled position of law , had observed that the assessee was
under a statutory obligation to have established the „Nature‟
and „Source‟ of the amount of USD 185 million as was
credited in its books of account during the year , and was
claimed by it to have been received as an advance from
ECHL for making investment in its equity shares. We find
that the Principal CIT while verifying the fact as to whether
the assessee had discharged the onus as stood cast upon it,
 P a g e | 38 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

had strictly confined himself to the basic scheme of Sec. 68 .
We are of the considered view that the Principal CIT being
well within his jurisdiction, had after necessary
deliberations observed that the assessee had failed to
discharge the onus as stood cast upon it under Sec. 68 . We
have given a thoughtful consideration to the contention of
the ld. A.R as regards the non -applicability of the f irst
proviso of Sec. 68 to its case, and being of the considered
view that as the same does not emerge from the order of
lower authorities, therefore, our indulgence for adjudicating
the same does not arise. We thus decline to admit the
aforesaid contention of the ld. A.R (iii). The ld. A.R had further submitted before us that as per
the settled position of law, in a case where share application
money is received by a company from alleged bogus
shareholders, who had been identified, the re the department
though remains well within its jurisdiction to reopen the
individual assessments of such shareholders in accordance
with law, but, the amount of the share application money
cannot be regarded as the u ndisclosed income of the
company. The ld. A.R in order to buttress his aforesaid
contention had relied on the judgments of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of CIT Vs. Lovely Exports (P)
Ltd. (2008) 216 CTR (SC) 195 and CIT Vs, Stellar
Investment Ltd. (2001) 251 ITR 263 (SC) , as well as the
judgment of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the case of CIT Vs. Sophia Finance Ltd. (1994) 205 ITR 98 (Del) . Thus, in the backdrop of the aforesaid judicial
pronouncements, it was averred by the ld. A.R that no w
 P a g e | 39 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

when the amount of USD 185 million was received by the
assessee company from ECHL by way of share application
money, therefore, in the light of the duly identified
shareholder, viz. ECHL, the amount of share subscription
received by the assessee company from ECHL cannot be
assessed as an unexplained cash credit in the hands of the
assessee. We have given a thoughtful consideration to the
facts of the case, and are of the considered view that the
claim of the ld. A.R that the amount of USD 185 million was
received by the assessee company from ECHL by way of
share application money, is in itself haunted by serious
doubts and rather is the subject matter of the order passed
by the Principal CIT. Be that as it may, we now take up the
aforesaid legal proposition canvassed before us by the ld.
A.R that where share application money is received by a
company from alleged bogus shareholders, who had been
identified, there such amount is though liable to be assessed
in the hands of the shareholders, in accordance wit h law,
however, the same cannot be regarded as the undisclosed
income of the assessee company. We are of the considered
view that after the judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in the case of Lovely Exports (P) Ltd. (supra) and Stellar
Investment Ltd (supra), the afore said issue is no more res
integra and stands settled . We are of the considered view
that as observed by us hereinabove, the claim of the
assessee that the amount of USD 185 m illion was received
by it as share application money from ECHL, is in itself the
bone of contention between the assessee and the revenue. However, without prejudice to our aforesaid observation, we
are of the considered view that even otherwise the said
 P a g e | 40 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

contention of the assessee raised before us is premature. We
find that our indulgence in the present appeal had been
sought only for adjudicating as to whether the Principal CIT
in exercise of the powers as stood vested with him under
Sec. 263, was right in law and well within his jurisdiction in
revising the reassessme nt order that was passed by the A.O
under Sec. 143(3) r.w.s 147, dated.28.03.2013, or not. We
are of the considered view that our scope of adjudication has
to remain strictly confined for adjudicating the validity of
the order of revision passed by the Pri ncipal CIT under Sec. 263. We are afraid that the contention of the ld. A.R that the
amount of the share application money received by the
assessee company in light of the aforesaid settled position of
law could not be assessed as the undisclosed income of the
assessee company, is absolutely premature. That as
observed by us hereinabove, we are confined to adjudication
of the validity of the order of revision passed under Sec. 263
by the Principal CIT, which had been assailed before us. We
are of the considered view that the aforesaid contention
raised by the ld. A.R before us, does not have any bearing on
the adjudication of the validity of the order passed by the
Principal CIT under Sec. 263. We are further of the view that
the aforesaid contention so raised before us is seriously
premature, and seeking an adjudication on the same by us ,
would be nothing short of putting the cart before the horse.
We thus in the backdrop of our aforesaid observations, thus ,
refrain from entertaining the aforesaid contention raised by
the ld. A.R before us. P a g e | 41 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT (iv). The ld. A.R had further submitted before us that as the
assessee in compliance of the mandate of Sec. 68 , had in the
course of the reassessment proceedings duly explained to
the satisfaction of the A.O the first and the immediate
source of the cash credits , i.e share application money of
USD 185 million claimed to have been received by it from
ECHL, therefore, it could not be called upon to explain the
source s of the source of the entity from whom the share
application money was received by it. We are principally
persuaded to be in agreement with the contention of the ld.
A.R that as held by the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in
the case of Commissioner of Income -tax, Central-III Vs.
Nirav Modi (2016) 71 tax mann.com 272 (Bombay) , the
mandate of Sec. 68 does not call for an enquiry of the
source s of source . However, the fact as to whether the
Principal CIT in the present case had embarked into an y
such exercise of making an enquiry into the source s of the
source from whom the amount of USD 185 million was
received by the assessee, would emerge only after a careful
deliberation of the facts of the case. We find that the
assessee had averred before the Pr incipal CIT that as the
onus cast upon it to explain the source of the share
application money had duly been explained to the
satisfaction of the A.O in the course of the reassessment
proceedings, therefore, in terms of the mandate of Sec. 68 the reassessment order passed by the A.O on the said count
could not be held to be erroneous and prejudicial to the
interest of revenue. We are of the considered view that t he
correctness of the aforesaid claim of the assessee can be
gathered on a perusal of the facts pertaining to receipt of
 P a g e | 42 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

USD 185 million, which as claimed by the assessee was
received as advance for share application money from EHCL,
for making of investment in the equity of the assessee
company. We find that as claimed by the ld. A.R, the
assessee had during the course of the reassessment
proceedings furnished details with the A.O in respect of the
amount of USD 185 million , which as claimed by the
assessee was the share application money received by it
from ECHL. The ld. A.R by taking us through the various
replie s which were filed with the C IT in reply to the „SCN‟
issued to it, viz. replies dated 16.10.2014 and 15.12.2014 ,
had thus submitted that exhaustive details in respect of the
share application money were called for by the A.O during
the course of the reassessment proceedings, which were duly
made available on his record by the assessee . We find that
as claimed by the ld. A.R, the assessee had during the
course of the reassessment proceedings furnished details of
the shareholders (name, addres s and percentage holding),
details of subscribers of the share capital, number of
shares, amount of share capital, amount of securities
premium, copies of the resolutions , each dated. 28.05.2008 ,
pertaining to the allotment of 10000000 equity shares and
45500000 equity shares of Rs. 10/ - each by the assessee
company to Essar Communication Holding Ltd (ECHL) at a
premium of Rs. 90/ - per share etc. It was further submitted
by the ld. A.R that details of the share application money
received by the assessee fro m ECHL, a Mauritian company,
alongwith the bank statement evidencing the identity of the
share applicant, genuineness of the infusion of funds by way
of share application money were also furnished to the
 P a g e | 43 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

satisfaction of the A.O. Thus, it was the contention of the ld.
A.R that substantial documentary evidence to substantiate
the nature and source of the amount of USD 185 million was
furnished by the assessee to the satisfaction of the A.O
during the course of reassessment proceedings, which was
accepted by him and no adverse inferences as regards the
same were drawn in the hands of the assess ee. Be that as it
may, we however find that as per the information received
from the Mauritius Revenue Authorities, out of the amount
of 12,43,07,689/- US dollars (2,95,90,743/- US dollars
returned) claimed by the assessee to have been received
from ECHL, only 85,00,000 US dollars were received through
the bank accounts of ECHL. The information received from
Mauritius Revenue Authorities revealed that the balance
amounts were paid directly to the assessee by EGL, the
holding company of ECHL. We further find that as observed
by the Principal CIT, even the amount of 85,00,000/- US
dollars received by the assessee from ECHL were not
belonging to ECHL , but is stated in the rep ort received from
the Mauritian Revenue Authority to have been given by EGL
to ECHL. We are of the considered view that the aforesaid
sources of the amount of USD 185 million had emerged for
the first time from the report of the Mauritius Revenue
Authorities, which was received only as on 28.03.2013 by
the Joint Secretary (FT&TR), Division, CBDT, New Delhi,
from the Mauritius Revenue Authority. We find that a bare
perusal of the information received from the Mauritius
Revenue Authorities revealed that the s ource of funds of
USD 185 million claimed by the assessee to have been
received during the year under consideration as share
 P a g e | 44 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

application money from ECHL, apparently found its source
from EGL, viz. (i). amount of USD 85,00,000 which was
claimed to be received through the bank accounts of ECHL,
was not belonging to ECHL but was claimed to be given by
EGL to ECHL; and (ii). the balance amount of USD 100
million was directly remitted by EGL on 09.01.2008, as
advance towards issue of shares on behalf of ECHL to the
assessee company. We are of the considered view that in the
backdrop of the aforesaid facts which had emerged for the
very first time from the information received from the
Mauritius Tax Authorities on 28.03.2013, was neither
examined nor verified by the A.O, who had already framed
the reassessment vide his order passed under Sec. 147 r.w.s
143(3), on the same date. We further find that as observed
by the Principal CIT during the course of the revision
proceedings, the Authorised representative for the assessee
had categorically admitted before him that neither the A.O
had during the course of the reassessment proceedings
raised any specific queries as regards the alleged funds
received from EGL, nor any such details were furnished by
the assessee on it s own to the A.O during the course of the
said reassessment proceedings. We further find that the
Principal CIT had in his order of revision observed that it
was for the very first time during the course of the revision
proceedings before him, that the ass essee had vide its letter
dated 15.12.2015 placed on record a copy of the letter
dated. 12.11.2014 received from ECHL, wherein the latter
had confirmed the investment of USD 185 million towards
subscription of shares of the assessee alongwith the source
of the funds of such investment. We further find that the
 P a g e | 45 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

assessee had again for the very first time during the course
of the revision proceedings before the Principal CIT, placed
on his record another letter dated. 12.11.2014 which was
received by ECHL from EGL, alongwith a certificate dated
11.11.2014 issued by Mazars, Chartered Accountants,
Mauritius, in respect of investment of USD 185 million by
EGL in ECHL, alongwith the source of such funds. We
further find that it was also observed by the Principal CIT
that the assessee for the very first time, had vide its another
letter dated. 27.01.2015, while explaining the source of the
share application money received by it from ECHL, had
submitted that out of the total amount of USD 185 million,
an amount of USD 100 million was directl y remitted by EGL
on 09.01.2008 as advance towards issue of shares on behalf
of ECHL to the assessee company. We have deliberated on
the aforesaid facts and have given a thoughtful
consideration to the same. We are of the considered view
that the genesis of the entire sequence of the aforesaid
events was the information received on 28.03.2013 b y the
Joint Secretary (FT&TR), CBDT, New Delhi, from the
Mauritius Revenue Authority. We find that the aforesaid
information pertaining to the source of the amount of USD
185 million was never there before the A.O in the course of
the reassessment proceedings, and as admitted by the
Authorised representative of the assesses before the
Principal CIT in the course of the revision proceed ings,
neither the A.O had during the course of the reassessment
proceedings raised any specific queries as regards the
alleged funds received from EGL, nor any such details were
furnished by the assessee on its own with the A.O during
 P a g e | 46 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

the course of the rea ssessment proceedings . We are of the
considered view that in the backdrop of the aforesaid facts,
now when the source of the amount of USD 185 million was
neither furnished by the assessee before the A.O during the
course of the reassessment proceedings, n or was verified by
him on his own, therefore, we do not find any infirmity in
the order of the Principal CIT, therein directing the A.O to
verify the source of the amount of USD 185 million received
by the assessee. Before parting, we may further observe t hat
the amount of USD 185 million which is claimed by the
assessee to have been received from ECHL as advance for
making of investment in the equity of the assessee company,
as gathered from the records, is stated to be the amount
belonging to EGL , wherein while for an amount of USD 100
million is stated to have been directly received by the
assessee from EGL on behalf of EHCL , while for the balance
amount of USD 85 million was also received by ECHL from
EGL. We thus are of the considered view that in the
backdrop of the aforesaid facts, the directions of the
Principal CIT to the A.O to also make necessary verifications
as regards the amounts received from EGL, which as
observed by us hereinabove to the extent of USD 100 million
happens to be the first or immediate source of the amount
received by the assessee, therefore, cannot be faulted with.
Be that as it may, in the backdrop of the aforesaid state of
facts, we are not persuaded to accept the contention of the
ld. A.R that the Principal Commissi oner of Income -tax had
embarked into verification of the sources of the source from
which the amount of USD 185 million was received by the
assessee. P a g e | 47 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT (v). We now advert to the core issue on the basis of which
the Principal CIT had revised the reassessment or der passed
by the A.O under Sec. 147 r.w.s. 143(3), dated 28.03.2013 .
We find that the Principal CIT after deliberating on the facts
of the case, held a conviction that the A.O had completed
the assessment without considering the information which
was called for by him from the Mauritius Tax Authorities. It
was observed by the Principal CIT that the A.O had not
made proper enquiries with regard to the preliminary or
basic facts about the source of the share application money
found credited in the books of account of the assessee,
inasmuch as out of USD 185 million, the assessee itself for
the first time during the revision proceedings had admitted
during the course of the revision proceedings that a sum of
USD 100 million was received directly from EGL (allegedly
claimed to be on behalf of EHCL), but no further enquiries to
ascertain the veracity of the sa id claim was ever made by the
A.O. We have given a thoughtful consideration to the
contentions of the authorised representatives for both the
parties in the backdrop of the material available on record.
We find that the Principal CIT after deliberating on the
records of the assessee before him , observed, that the
original assessment which was framed by the A.O vide his
order under Sec. 143(3) , dated. 29.12.2010, was reopened
under Sec. 147 , on the basis of information received from
the DGIT(Inv), New Delhi, which revealed that the source of
advances of Rs. 700 crores given by the assessee company to
Loop Telecom Limited was not properly examined/verified by
the A.O while framing the assessment. The Principal CIT
observed, that as the primary issue which had weighed in
 P a g e | 48 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

the mind of the A.O while reopening the concluded
assessment of the assessee was to verify the source of the
amount of Rs. 700 crores advanced to Loop Telecom Limited,
which as claimed by the assessee was from the amount of
the share application money of Rs. 726 crores (USD 185
million) claimed by the assessee to have been received from
ECHL, a Mauritius based company, therefore, the A.O in
order to verify the international money trail and source of
money, made a reference vide letter dated. 22.11.2012 to the
Jt. Secretary, CBDT, New Delhi, (for short „FT & TR‟),
requesting that the information may be obtained from the
revenue authorities in Mauritius , under the specific articles
dealing with „Exchange of Information‟ as per the terms of
the India-Mauritius "Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement ".
The A.O at whose behest the very process of verification of
the claim of the assessee that the amount of USD 185
million credited in its books of account during the year was
the share application money received from ECHL, was
triggered, realizing that there was delay on the part of the
Mauritius Revenue Authority in furnishing its report,
therefore, issued a reminder on 05.03.2013 for obtaining the
information. The Principal CIT observed that the information
was received by the A.O only as on 28.03.2013, which was
the date on which the A.O had passed the reassessment
order under Sec. 143(3) r.w.s 147 of the „Act‟ . We find that it
was observed by the Principal CIT that as the A.O had
passed the reassessmen t order without waiting for and
examining the information received from the Mauritius
Revenue Authorities , therefore, the failure on the part of the
A.O to wait for, examine and verify the aforesaid information
 P a g e | 49 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

which was called for by the A.O himself, therefore, due to
the non-verification of the nature and source of the amount
of USD 185 million by the A.O, on the said count itself
rendered the reassessment order passed by him as
erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the revenue. (vi). We further find that the Principal CIT, independent of
the aforesaid fact of non-verification of the report received
from the Mauritius Revenue Authorities by the A.O,
observed, that even otherwise the information received from
the Mauritius Revenue Authorities wa s neither complete, nor
explained the source and creditworthiness of the persons
giving the share application money. We find that on the
basis of his aforesaid observations, the Principal CIT held a
conviction that the A.O had no material on record to come to
the conclusion that sources of share application money from
ECHL was properly explained. We find that in the backdrop
of the aforesaid facts, it was further observed by the
Principal CIT that neither the source of the share
application money received by the assessee from ECHL was
properly explained by the assessee, nor it could be gathered
from the information received by the A.O from the Mauritius
Revenue Authorities. There was also no ev idence as to how
the money was acquired by EGL. We find that the Principal
CIT had further observed, that as per the information
received from the Mauritius Revenue Authorities, as against
the amount of USD 185 million claimed by the assessee to
have been received from ECHL as share application money,
only an amount of USD 85 million (amount given by EGL to
ECHL) was received through the bank accounts of ECHL. We
 P a g e | 50 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

find that the Principal CIT deliberating on the information
received from Mauritius Revenue Aut horities, observed that
the balance amount of USD 100 million (out of USD 185
million) was stated to have been paid directly on behalf of
ECHL by the latters holding company, viz. EGL, directly to
the assessee. The Principal CIT had further observed that
though the information received from the Mauritius Revenue
Authorities referred to part payment of the investment made
by ECHL by its parent company viz. EGL, which is stated to
have been transferred through American Express Bank Ltd.,
but no such bank account statement, as claimed, was found
enclosed alongwith the report of the Mauritius Revenue
Authority. We further find that the Principal CIT had
observed, that though it was claimed that there was direct
transfer of funds by EGL on behalf of ECHL out of s hare
application money receivable by ECHL from EGL, but
however, as admitted by the authorised representative for
the assessee before him during the course of the revision
proceedings, neither any details as regards the same were
made available on the reco rd by the assessee during the
course of the reassessment proceedings, nor was the same
enquired into by the A.O. We find that the Principal CIT, on
the basis of his aforesaid observations had concluded that
as the A.O had not examined the information received from
the Mauritius Revenue Authorities, therefore, the same had
remained unverified and not subject to any enquiry by him
while passing the reassessment order. Thus, in the backdrop
of his aforesaid observations, it was concluded by the
Principal CIT that the non-verification and non application
of mind by the A.O rendered the reassessment order passed
 P a g e | 51 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

by him under Sec. 147 r.w.s 143(3) as erroneous and
prejudicial to the interest of the revenue. (vii). We have heard the authorised representatives for both
the parties, perused the orders of the lower authorities and
the material available on record. We have given a thoughtful
consideration to the issue before us . We find that as
observed by us hereinabove, the original assessment which
was framed by the A.O vide his order passed under Sec.
143(3) , dated. 29.12.2010, was reopened under Sec. 147 on
the basis of information received from the DGIT(Inv),New
Delhi, that the source of advances of Rs. 700 crores giv en by
the assessee company to Loop Telecom Limited were not
properly examined/verified by the A.O while framing the
assessment. That as the primary issue which had weighed in
the mind of the A.O while reopening the concluded
assessment of the assessee was to verify the source of the
amount of Rs. 700 crores advanced to Loop Telecom Limited,
which as claimed by the assessee was from the amount of
the share application money of Rs. 726 crores (USD 185
million) received by it from ECHL, a Mauritius based
company, therefore, the A.O in order to verify the
international money trail and source of money had made a
reference vide letter dated. 22.11.2012 to the Jt. Secretary,
FT & TR, CBDT, New Delhi, requesting that the information
may be obtained from the revenue authorities in Mauritius
under the specific articles dealing with „Exchange of
Information‟ as per the terms of the India -Mauritius "Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement" , and the claim of the
assessee that the amount of USD 185 million credited in its
 P a g e | 52 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

books of account was the share application money received
from ECHL, may thus be verified. We find that as the
necessary information was not forthcoming, therefore, the
A.O who had triggered the seeking of the aforesaid
information from the Mauritius Revenue Authorities, being
well aware of the fact that the said information was
indispensably required to facilitate verification of the
aforesaid claim of the assessee, therefore, issued a reminder
on 05.03.2013 for obtaining the information. The Principal
CIT observed that as the report from the Mauritius Revenue
Authority was received on 28.03.2013, on which date itself
the reassessment order under Sec. 147 r.w.s 143(3) was
framed by the A.O, therefore, the A.O by not waiting for the
requisite details, had thus, without examining and verifying
the report of the Mauritius Revenue Authority, passed the
reassessment order. We are of the considered view that now
when the assessee in the course of the reassessment
proceedings had submitted before the A.O that the amount
of USD 185 million was received by it as share application
money from ECHL, a Mauritius based company , therefore,
the A.O after deliberating on the „material‟ placed on re cord
by the assessee, realizing well that the said claim of the
assessee could not be summarily accepted on the very face
of it, had thus made a reference vide letter dated.
22.11.2012 to the Jt. Secretary, FT & TR Division, CBDT,
New Delhi, requesting tha t the information may be obtained
from the revenue authorities in Mauritius under the specific
articles dealing with „Exchange of Information‟ as per the
terms of the India -Mauritius "Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement", as regards the aforesaid claim of the assessee. P a g e | 53 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

We thus are of the considered view that the importance of
the verification of the aforesaid claim of the assessee in
respect of the source of the amount of USD 185 million, was
well recognized by the A.O. We further find that as the
necessary information was not forthcoming, therefore, the
A.O who had triggered the seeking of the said information
from the Mauritius Revenue Authorities, being well aware of
the fact that the said information was indispensably
required to facilitate verification of the aforesaid claim of the
assessee, therefore, issued a reminder on 05.03.2013 for
obtaining the information. Now, interestingly it can safely be
gathered that the importance of the report from the
Mauritius Revenue Authority for making necessary
verifications as regards the claim of the assessee, remained
as such from 22.11.2012 (i.e date of reference by A.O) till
05.03.2013 (filing of reminder by the A.O). The pressing on
the part of the A.O as regards the report of the Mauritius
Revenue Authority can be appreciated from the very fact
that even as on 05.03.2013 the A.O required the afores aid
information, so that the verification of the claim of the
assessee as regards the source of the amount of USD 185
million could be brought to a logical end. But then,
surprisingly the A.O did not wait for the information from
the Mauritius Revenue Auth ority, and aborting the very
process of seeking of the requisite information, w hich in
itself was triggered by him, followed by a reminder , passed
the reassessment order on 28.03.2013, i.e on the same date
on which the report was received from the Mauritiu s
Revenue Authority. Thus, as the reassessment already stood
framed by the A.O, therefore, he had no occasion to examine
 P a g e | 54 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

the report, make necessary verifications and raise requisite
enquiries. We are afraid to say that such conduct of the A.O
to frame the reassessment order without waiting for,
examining and verifying the report of the Mauritius Revenue
Authority, which we find was indispensably required by him
till 05.03.2013 was however abruptly aborted, thus can
only be characterised by us as an order passed by him
without making any verification as regards the nature and
source of the amount of USD 185 million which was claimed
by the assessee as having been received as share application
money from ECHL. We may further observe that there is
nothing available on record which could persuade us to
conclude that some information/material independent of the
seeking of the information from the Mauritius Revenue
Authority was gathered by the A.O, which thus rendered the
very requirement of waiting for the repor t from Mauritius
Revenue Authority, purposeless. We thus in the backdrop of
the aforesaid facts are of the considered view that the failure
on the part of the A.O to examine the report received from
the Mauritius Revenue Authority was clearly a case of non -
application of mind by the A.O, who can safely be concluded
to have accepted without making any verification the claim
of the assessee that the amount of USD 185 million received
by it was by way of share application money from E CHL. We
thus are of the considered view that in the backdrop of the
aforesaid facts, it can safely be concluded that the
reassessment order passed by the A.O was erroneous and
prejudicial to the interest of the revenue. We are of the
considered view that a s observed by us hereinabove, that as
the A.O who had himself triggered the seeking of the
 P a g e | 55 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

aforesaid information from the Mauritius Revenue Authority,
which was followed by a reminder from him, was however
most surprisingly aborted without any rhyme and re ason,
therefore, it can safely and rather inescapably be concluded
that he had absolutely failed to examine the report received
from the Mauritius Revenue Authority and thus failed to
examine the veracity of the aforesaid claim of the assessee
as regards the source of the amount of USD 185 million . We
are persuaded to be in agreement with the Principal CIT that
the A.O while passing the reassessment order had
summarily accepted the claim of the assessee as regards the
source of the amount of USD 185 million without making
any verification as regards the same , therefore, is clearly a
case of non-application of mind by the A.O. That in the
backdrop of the aforesaid facts, we are of the considered
view that the proposition of law as laid down by the Hon'ble
High Court of Bombay in the case of Commissioner of
Income-tax, Central -III Vs. Nirav Modi (2016) 71
taxmann.com272 (Bombay) , as had been relied upon by the
assessee before us, is found to be distinguishable on facts,
and thus would not assist the case of the assessee. We have
further deliberated on the report received from the Mau ritius
Revenue Authority (Page 97-98 of „APB‟), and find ourselves
to be in agreement with the Principal CIT, that independent
of the aforesaid fact of non -verification of the repor t received
from the Mauritius Revenue Authorities by the A.O, even
otherwise the information received from the Mauritius
Revenue Authorities was neither complete, nor explained the
source and creditworthiness of the persons giving the share
application money. We are further of the considered view
 P a g e | 56 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT

that the certificate of Mazar, Chartered accountants,
Mauritius, to which our attention was drawn by the ld. A.R,
in the backdrop of the fact that the latter had categorically
stated as not being the Chartered accountant of EGL, as well
as in the backdrop of the disclaimer forming part of his
certificate, thus does not inspire much confidence and
cannot be accepted without making necessary verifications
of the facts mentioned therein. We are also not impressed by
the contention of the ld. A.R that the CIT-5, Mumbai while
transferring the case records of the assessee to the CIT-8,
Mumbai, had in his letter dated 13.08.2014 advised that as
no adverse report was received from the Mauritius Revenue
Authority, therefore, there was no requirement of reopening
the case of the assessee for the year under consideration
and the preceding years. We are of the considered view that
as per the mandate of Sec. 263, the requirement
contemplated under the said statutory provision is the
satisfaction of the CIT in whose revisional jurisdiction the
case of the assessee falls , therefore, the view or advise of the
CIT-5, Mumbai, who was rendered f unctus off icio as regards
the case of the assessee , thus in the present case was not
binding on the CIT-8, Mumbai, to whom the case of the
assessee was transferred. We thus are of the considered view
that the advice of the CIT-5, Mumbai did not have any
bearing on the assumption of jurisdiction by the CIT-8,
Mumbai or the passing of the order of revision u/s 263 by
the Principal CIT-9, Mumbai as regards revising of the
reassessment order passed by the A.O under Sec. 147 r.w.s
143(3). We thus decline to accept the aforesaid contention
so raised before us. P a g e | 57 ITA No. 2706/Mum/2015 AY: 2008-09 ATC Telecom Tower Vs. Pr. CIT 26. We thus in the backdrop of our aforesaid observations
are of the considered view that the Principal CIT had rightly
revised the reassessment order passed by the A.O under Sec.
143(3) r.w.s 147, being of the view that the A.O had
completed the reassessment without making proper
enquiries with regard to the preliminary or basic facts about
the source of the share application money found credited in
the books of account of the assessee, as well as not
considering the information which was called for by him
from the Mauritius Tax Authorities. W e thus are of the
considered view that the Principal CIT, remaining well
within his jurisdiction had set aside the reassessment order
passed by the A.O under Sec. 143(3) r.w.s 147, with a
direction to adjudicate afresh the issue as regards the
amount of USD 185 million , claimed to have been received
by the assessee as share application money from ECHL,
after making necessary verifications and affording
reasonable opportunity of being heard to the assessee. We
thus in the backdrop of our aforesaid observations uphold
the order passed by the Principal CIT-9 under Sec. 263 of
the „Act‟. 27. The appeal of the assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 03 /10/2017. आदे श की प्रतिलऱपि अग्रेपिि/Copy of the Order forwarded to : सत्म वऩत प्रतत //True Copy//

 आदे शानुसार/ BY ORDER,
 उि/सहायक िंजीकार (Dy./Asstt. Registrar)
 आयकर अिीऱीय अधिकरण, भुंफई / ITAT,
 Mumbai