Dr. Junul Bhengraj @ Dr. Junul Vengraj @ Junul Bhengraj .............. Appellant
 Versus
 Union of India through CBI ............... Respondent --- CORAM: Hon'ble Mr. Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh --- Through: Video Conferencing -- For the Appellant : Mr. Abhish Kumar , Advocate,
 For the Resp.-CBI : Mr. Prashant Pallav, ASGI
 M/s. Navneet Sahay, Shivani Jhaluka, A.C to A.S.G.I --- 02/22.04.2022 Admit . Call for the Lower Court Records from the court of learned
 Special Judge-V, CBI, (A.H.D. Scam Cases), Ranchi in connection with
 R.C.Case No. 47(A)/1996-PAT. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that Lower Court
 Records of the instant R.C. Case have been received in connected appeals. Learned counsel for the appellant has sought to press I.A No.2964
 of 2022 both on merits and on the claim of custody of more than 4 years already
 undergone by the appellant against the maximum sentence of 4 years imposed
 upon him under different provisions of I.P.C and P.C Act. Learned counsel for the ASGI submits that he has not received
 any instruction as regards the claim of the appellant of period of custody
 undergone by him. Learned counsel for the parties, therefore, propose that liberty may
 be granted to the learned counsel for the appellant and the CBI to inspect the
 lower court records, especially the order sheet of the case RC Case No.
 47(A)/1996 (Patna) to ascertain the total period of custody undergone by the
 appellant in connection with the instant case. As such, learned counsel for the appellant and the CBI are
 allowed to inspect the lower court records jointly, if necessary, with authorized
 CBI official to ascertain the total period of custody undergone by the appellant.
 On requisition being made, learned Registrar General would authorize such
 inspection to be made in the presence of a competent official of the Registry
 within a period of two weeks from today. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that he would
 endeavour to file a supplementary affidavit enclosing the supporting documents 2. such as order sheet of the case within this time. The supplementary affidavit so
 filed be placed on record on the next date. As prayed for, list this case on 6th May 2022. (Aparesh Kumar Singh, J)
Jk/