1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
 Cr.MP(M) No. 808 of 2020

 . The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anoop Chitkara, Judge. Whether approved for reporting?1 No
For the petitioner : Mr. Kush Sharma, Advocate, for the petitioner.
For the respondent : Mr. Ashwani K. Sharma, Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Addl. A.Gs., Mr. Ram Lal Thakur, Asstt. A.G. and Mr. Rajat
 Chauhan, Law Officer, for the State. COURT PROCEEDINGS CONVENED THROUGH VIDEO CONFERENCE

Anoop Chitkara, Judge

 For possessing 5 kilograms of Charas, the petitioner, who is under

arrest, on being arraigned as an accused, in FIR Number 113 of 2019,
dated Oct 5, 2019, registered under Section 20 of the Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (after now called " NDPS Act "), in
Police Station Patlikuhal, District Kullu, HP, disclosing non-bailable
offenses, has come up before this Court under Section 439 CrPC,
seeking regular bail. 2. While issuing notices to the State, the Court had requested Mr. Nand 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the
judgment? Lal Thakur, Additional Advocate General to procure status report either
through WhatsApp/e-mail and forward the same to this Court on e-mail
id [email protected] and also send the scanned copy or PDF copy of the

 . status report to the learned Counsel for the petitioner on his WhatsApp
number. 3. Mr. Nand Lal Thakur learned Additional Advocate General states

that he has filed the status report through e-mail. He further submits that
he has sent a copy of the status report to learned Counsel for the
petitioner on his WhatsApp number. A printout of the status report is

available on file. 4. I have read the status report(s) and heard Mr. Kush Sharma, learned
counsel for the petitioner, Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, learned Additional

Advocate General, for the respondent/State, through video conferencing. 5. The petitioner had earlier moved an application for regular bail
before the learned Additional District and Sessions Judge-I, Kullu, HP. However, the same was dismissed as withdrawn vide order dated Mar 7,
2020. FACTS 6. The gist of the First Information Report and the status report is that

on Oct 5, 2019 Police Party was conducting patrolling. At about 7.00
a.m., when the Police Party in their vehicle reached at a place named

Bhulang Vihal Bridge, then they noticed two persons sitting on the side of
the road. The police stopped the vehicle on which both these persons
immediately stood up. They had placed a bag in between them. The
conduct of the two persons arose suspicion in the mind of the
Investigating Officer of this bag containing some contraband or illegal
substance. After that the police intended to conduct search of the said
bag and tried to associate independent witnesses but could not find any.
Subsequently, on inquiry the said persons revealed their names as
Tivalu @ Shiv Chand (petitioner herein) and the second person as Biru. On opening the bag, police recovered Charas which, when weighed,
measured 5 kilograms. Subsequently, the police party seized the
contraband, complied with the procedural requirements under the NDPS

 . Act, and the CrPC and arrested the petitioner and his co-accused. The
Forensic Science Report tested the said substance to be cannabis.
PREVIOUS CRIMINAL HISTORY 7. As per the learned counsel for the petitioner, the petitioner has no
criminal history. SUBMISSIONS: 8. Mr. Kush Sharma, the Counsel for the petitioner submits that the
evidence collected by the Investigator is insufficient to fasten his guilt. He

has relied upon the judgment rendered in Sujit Tiwari vs. State of

Gujarat , 2020 (2) SCALE 587. However, without going further the said
judgment is clearly distinguishable on its facts and is not applicable in the
present case. 9. Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Additional Advocate General submits that the
quantity recovered is Commercial Quantity and the petitioner must cross

the riders of S. 37 of NDPS Act. Once he is able to satisfy the twin
conditions of S. 37 of NDPS Act, only after that he may be entitled for

bail. ANALYSIS AND REASONING: 10. As per the case of the prosecution, the bail petitioner Tivalu @ Shiv
Chand was present on the road with a bag lying in between him and the
co-accused Biru and on seeing the police both of them had perplexed.
Therefore, the burden had shifted upon them in view of Sections 35 and 54 of the NDPS Act. 11. Pre-trial incarceration needs justification depending upon the
heinous nature of the offence, terms of the sentence prescribed in the
Statute for such a crime, probability of the accused fleeing from justice,
hampering the investigation, and doing away with victim(s) and/or ::: Downloaded on - 17/06/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP 4 witnesses. The Court is under an obligation to maintain a balance
between all stakeholders and safeguard the interests of the victim,
accused, society, and State. . 12. Section 2 (vii-a) of the NDPS Act defines commercial quantity as
the quantity greater than the quantity specified in the schedule, and S. 2 (xxiii-a), defines a small quantity as the quantity lesser than the quantity

specified in the schedule of NDPS Act . The remaining quantity falls in an
undefined category, which is now generally called as intermediate
quantity. All Sections in the NDPS Act , which specify an offense, also

mention that minimum and maximum sentence, depending upon the
quantity of the substance. Commercial quantity mandates minimum
sentence of ten years of imprisonment and a minimum fine of Rupees

One hundred thousand, and bail is subject to the riders mandated in S. 37 of NDPS Act. 13. The law is well settled that the two conditions that need to be

satisfied are that the prosecution must be given the opportunity to oppose
the application and that court must be satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such and offence. If either of

these two conditions are not satisfied, the ban of granting bail operates. The expression "reasonable grounds" means something more than prima
facie grounds. It contemplates substantial probable causes for believing

that the accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. 14. In other words, Section 37(1)(b)(ii) mandates twin conditions to be
satisfied before a person/ accused to be released on bail the first is when
the public prosecutor does not oppose the bail. Secondly, the court must
be satisfied that there exists a reasonable ground for believing that the
person/ accused is not guilty of such offense and is not likely to commit
any crime while on bail. 15. Therefore, at this stage, the petitioner has not made a special case
to get bail. However, the petitioner shall be at liberty to file a fresh bail ::: Downloaded on - 17/06/2020 20:21:58 :::HCHP 5 application either before this Court or before the trial Court. Needless to
say, that at that time, the Court considering the bail application shall not
get influenced by the observations made hereinbefore. . Resultantly, there is no merit in the present petition and the same is
accordingly dismissed. (Anoop Chitkara),
 Judge.