The suit of the plaintiff for permanent injunction to

restrain the defendants media channels from telecasting

false, frivolous and scandalous news articles, which are

defamatory to the character and reputation of the

plaintiff herein. 2. The brief facts of the plaintiff's case is as

follows :- 3. Along with the suit the plaintiff also filed an

application under order 39 Rule 1 & 2 of C.P.C . by

seeking an ad-interim order of temporary injunction to

restrain the defendants media channel from telecasting

any defamatory or scandalous news articles against the

plaintiff herein. By considering the prima-facie case

made out by the plaintiff, this Court was pleased to grant

an interim injunction order. 4. The suit summons got issued to all the

defendants. The defendant No.5 appeared before this

Court, filed their written statement denying the plaint

averments as false and they are not the person who

published the scandalous or defamatory articles as they

are bound by the guidelines of the Ministry of

Broadcasting and they have not telecasted any such 7 O.S.No.5620/2022 news articles from their T.V. Channel. And moreover

any interim order or injunction order granted against

them will amounts to breach of the fundamental rights

guaranteed under Article 19(i)(a) of the Constitution of

India and mere on the basis of apprehension the suit in

the present nature cannot be filed. Thus prayed to

dismiss the same. 5. By considering the pleadings of the parties this

court was pleased to frame following issues :- 6. The plaintiff in order to prove his case,

examined himself as PW.1 and in all produced 6

documents which were marked as Ex.P.1 to 6. Despite 8 O.S.No.5620/2022 giving sufficient opportunities, the defendants have not

chosen to cross examine the PW.1 and not chosen to lead

their evidence. Thus cross of PW.1 and defendants

evidence are taken as nil. 7. Heard the arguments of learned counsel for the

plaintiff. As the defendant No.5 and their counsel

remained absent, thus their arguments was taken as nil. 8. My finding on the above issues are :- 9. Issue No.1 : The plaintiff filed the present

suit for permanent injunction to restrain the defendants

media channels to not to telecast any news articles which

are defamatory or scandalous to his character and

reputation, on the ground that the defendant No.1

Youtube news channel, in their channel on the last week

of July 2022, they started to telecasting the promo 9 O.S.No.5620/2022 alleging that the plaintiff herein had involved in illicit

activities such as having alcohol and roaming with girls

by forgetting his responsibilities as priest in a reputed

temple. But doing so, he has dual face. But, it is the

plaintiff's contention is that, the video is created one,

with intent to make financial extortion and he had not at

all involved in any such activities. Further, an agent from

the defendant no.1 channel, called did the phone call

from No.081478800314 demanded to pay Rs.10,00,000/-

to stop telecasting such news articles, failed which

threatened to telecast the said news in the defendant

No.1 Youtube channel and also to share with other news

channels. To prove the fact that the defendant No.1 had

telecasted, such promos in their Youtube channel

produced the CD as per Ex.P4. On examining the said

video, the Court found that the defendant No.1 Youtube

media channel had the clear intentions to defame the

character of the plaintiff herein, they are trying to portray

themselves that, they made the plaintiff to fall into their 10 O.S.No.5620/2022 prey and finally they succeeded to unravel the hidden

face of the plaintiff. The defendant No.1 media channel

is trying to say that the plaintiff who is a priest of a

reputed temple is involved in other unethical activities. If

the contents of the news articles are considered,

definitely they are defaming the character of the plaintiff,

they are scandalous. They want to put the plaintiff in the

dim of dark light in the eyes of public and they are really

want to act as a moral police. Of course the defendant

No.1 are entitled place the true facts before the public to

sensitize them. And, to do the same, there is a guarantee

under the Article 19 of the Constitution. But, such

guarantee will not extended if the news channels, with

intent to make money, causes a threat. Even if they have

true articles, which was not secured for the bonafide

cause, in that event the if the reason is not bonafide,

such an articles also shall not see the light of the day. As

the act in the nature is a fraudulent act, which illegal

and unethical. There will not be any protection to such 11 O.S.No.5620/2022 acts. The News channels, must draw a line, they have no

right to enter into the private life of an individual.

Illegality and unethical are different. If it is something

illegal, the defendants are entitled to bring the same into

the knowledge of public to get them aware to prevent

them to fall in the prey of another illegal act. But by

taking the private and professional life of a particular

man, they cannot compare, give a finding. They have no

right to regulate the life of an individual. 10. The intention of the defendant No.1 Youtube

channel is not bonafide. They are not really intended to

bring true facts into the knowledge of the public to create

an awareness, they are immoral. They are in fact,

involved in immoral activities by keeping some videos of

the plaintiff have started to extort money by making

phone calls to pay money, failed which they will telecast

the same and even shares the same with other media

channels. If the audio of the person claiming from the 12 O.S.No.5620/2022 defendant no.1 media channel, which is marked as Ex.P3

are considered, they are behind the plaintiff, made the

repeated calls, gave a threat if he failed to make money of

Rs.10,00,000/- they will share the videos with all the

news channels to telecast the same. If that aspect is

considered, the media channels will not be protected

under Article 19(i)(a) of the Constitution of India. They

are to be condemned, in fact the act of the defendant

no.1 is immoral and illegal, thus their activities will not

get any protection under any of the law. Its true that,

this court cannot prevent the defendants from telecasting

true and actual facts, as they bound to do so. But, by

keeping the true facts they have no right to cause

harassment for financial extortion, which amounts to

illegal, which is more aggravated offence than the act if

any committed by the plaintiff, in that event the act of

the defendant no.1 media is requires to be condemned. 11. By considering the threat caused by the 13 O.S.No.5620/2022 defendant No.1 media channel through some agent, the

plaintiff lodged the complaint before the jurisdictional

police. To that effect he has produced the Ex.P1 NCR

issued by the police and Ex.P2 which is the copy of the

complaint, there it is very clear that the plaintiff has

directly alleged that it is the defendant No.1 is calling to

him, they are demanding to pay Rs.10,00,000/- failing

which they are going to telecast the news articles in their

media channel and also to share the same in another

media channels. If these aspects are considered,

definitely the news articles proposed to telecast are

scandalous with intent to damage the character of the

plaintiff in the society for which the perpetual injunction

sought in the suit is requires to be granted. 12. The defendant No.5 media channel have filed

their written statement alleging that they have not

telecasted any such articles, they are bound by the

principles and guidelines laid down by the Ministry of 14 O.S.No.5620/2022 Broadcasting. If these aspects are considered, of course

in the suit there is no such allegation against the other

defendants. The plaintiff made other media channels as

defendant No.2 to 8 only on the ground that it is the

defendant No.1 in his phone call had gave a threat to the

plaintiff that if he is not going to settle Rs.10,00,000/- he

is going to share the said fact with other media channels.

Thus he had an apprehension that on the false

information furnished by the defendant No.1, the other

defendants media houses alos may going to telecast it.

The plaintiff has not approached the Court on a mere

apprehension. There are prima-facie material to show

based on false information the defendant No.1 is trying to

cause defamation to his character. In fact, the

defendants have not chosen to appear before this Court

to discredit the evidence of the plaintiff, whether the

news articles contained in Ex.P4 are genuine in which

really the plaintiff had involved in such activities. In the

absence of it, the news articles of the defendant No.1 15 O.S.No.5620/2022 published in the promos cannot be believed as true.

Thus the plaintiff made out the ground that there was a

threat of publishing the false defamatory, scandalous

articles against him. In the event of publication of such

articles that will causes serious hardship and injury to

the character of the plaintiff, he will be little in the eye of

public. Thus the permanent injunction sought in the

nature is requires to be granted. Thus I answer issue

No.1 in the affirmative. 13. Issue No.2 :- As the plaintiff proved his case,

thus the suit of the plaintiff deserves to be allowed.

Accordingly, I proceed to pass the following :-