The brief facts of the case are that on or about 30.07.2004 at High Commission of
 Canada, Chanakya Puri, the accused Bhupender Singh and Kuldeep Singh both
 entered into a criminal conspiracy and in pursuance of the said conspiracy they
 attempted to cheat the said High Commission by furnishing fake Visas. The accused
 Bhupender was arrested and two blank fake Canadian visas without name and
 number were recovered from his possession and at his instance the accused
 Kuldeep Singh was also arrested and one passport No. E-6657547 in the name of
 Harpreet Pal Singh Schole with a fake Canadian Visa no. A034335469 dated
 26.07.2004 was recovered from his possession. 2. After the completion of investigation, charge sheet u/s 420 / 468 / 471 / 511 / 120B IPC

FIR no. 178/04 page 1 of 5
 and 12 Passport Act was filed against the accused persons Bhupender Singh and
 Kuldeep Singh. Copy of challan was supplied to the accused persons. Charge was
 framed against them u/s 420 / 511 / 120B I.P.C, to which they pleaded not guilty and
 claimed trial. 3. In order to prove its case, prosecution has examined four witnesses. 4. PW1 HC Heera Lal proved the copy of FIR Ex. PW-1/A and endorsement on rukka
 Ex. PW-1/B. 5. PW-2 Sh. Aman deposed that he had been deputed from passport office, Jallandar
 vide his authority letter Ex. PW-2/A. He brought the verification report of file no.
 T/901/03 of Sh. Harpreet Pal Singh Sahota vide memo Ex. PW-2/B. The verification
 report of passport officer is Ex. PW-2/C which bears the signatures of
 Superintendent Passport officer namely St. Gurjeet Kaur. In the cross-examination
 by the counsel for the accused persons he deposed that he had no personal
 knowledge about the file as well as about the case. He denied the suggestion that he
 did not know the signatures of the officers on the file as he was not dealing with the
 file. 6. PW-3 Ct. Subhash Chand deposed that on 30.07.2004 he was posted as Constable
 at PS Chanakya Puri and his duty hours were from 9 am to 10 pm. SI Naresh
 Khanka was standing outside the gate of the police station when he received the
 information from a secret informer that a person standing in parking of Malcha
 Market deals in forged visas and passports. Secret informer also told him that he
 knows that person. He along with IO/SI Naresh Khanka and secret informer went to
 the spot and reached in the parking of Malcha Market. The secret informer pointed
 out towards one Bhupender Singh. He deposed that IO had requested 4-5 persons
 to join the raiding party but none was ready and left the spot without disclosing their
 names and addresses. IO inquired Bhupender SIngh and conducted his search. On
 search of the accused, two passports and some papers were recovered. IO prepared
 the seizure memo and took them into his possession. The search of the accused
 Kuldeep Singh was also conducted and a passport was recovered from his
 possession which was issued from Jallandhar and same was bearing the name of
 Harpreet Singh. IO took it into his possession vide memo Ex. PW-3/A.

FIR no. 178/04 page 2 of 5
 The said witnesses was declared hostile by the Ld. APP for the State. In the cross-
 examination by the Ld. APP for the State, he admitted that two Canadian Blank Visas
 were recovered from the possession of the accused Bhupender Singh and not the
 passport. He deposed that he forgot this fact due to the passage of time. He
 admitted that the forged Canadian Visa was affixed on the passport which was
 recovered from the possession of accused Kuldeep Singh vide memo Ex. PW-3/B
 which bears his signature at point A. He admitted that the accused Bhupender Singh
 and Kuldeep Singh were arrested vide memo Ex. PW-3/C and Ex. PW-3/D
 respectively which bear his signature at point A. Their personal search was
 conducted vide memo Ex. PW-3/E and Ex. PW-3/F respectively which bear his
 signature at point A. He admited that the disclosure statement of the accused
 persons were recorded vide memo Ex. PW-3/G and Ex. PW-3/H respectively which
 bears my signature at point A. Due to passage of time, he could not recollect these
 facts

 In the cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for the accused Kuldeep Singh he
 deposed that he was present at the gate when the secret information was received
 by the IO, however the same was not reduced in writing by SI Naresh Khanka. No
 other person was there at that time except the secret informer. He did not know if SI
 Naresh Khanka had conveyed about the secret information to any higher officer or
 not. They had gone to the spot in a auto rickshaw. At the police station, before
 starting, the IO had not asked any person to join the raiding party. The Malcha
 Market parking is about one kilometer from the PS Chanakya Puri. There were
 parking attendants in the parking of Malcha Marg Market. The parking was full with
 the vehicles and persons were coming and going it the parking lot with their
 respective vehicles. One of the parking attendant was asked to become the witness
 but he refused. IO did not take any action against him. He deposed that he cannot
 tell the name of the parking attendant. Accused Bhupender Sinfgh was standing in
 the corner of the parking. They had stopped the auto rickshaw at the distance of
 about 100 yards from the spot and from there they walked to the place where
 Bhupender Singh was standing. He did not remember after how much time, accused
 Kuldeep Singh had reached the spot. The search of accused Bhupender Singh was
 conducted first. The passport was recovered from the pants of the accused Kuldeep
 Singh. They remained at the spot for about one hour. The secret informer had left the

FIR no. 178/04 page 3 of 5
 spot after dropping them at the spot. IO had conducted the proceedings sitting on the
 ground on the footpath. He had read the memos and the papers prepared by the IO
 before signing the same. He had singed the documents regarding the information
 and the DD received by the IO. IO had recorded his statement and he had signed
 the same. There is no signed statement of the witness on record. Whatever he had
 given in the court, the same he had stated to the IO. In the cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for the accused BHupender Singh he
 deposed that no entry was effected by the IO or by him in roznamcha before starting
 from the police station. The auto driver was paid Rs. 15/- by the IO. He could not tell
 the number of auto. IO had not recorded the names and addresses of those perons
 who had refused to become the witnesses. He could not tell whether the VISA slips
 were of light yellow colour. He deposed that he had not read the contents of the
 slips. He could not tell the size of the slips. He denied the suggestion that nothing
 was recovered from the possession of the accused Bhupender Singh. He denied the
 suggestion that he had not gone to the spot and made a false case against the
 accused Bhupender Singh in the police station. 7. PW-4 Harpreet Pal Singh deposed that he had handed over his passport no. E-
 6657547 which was issued by Passport Jallandhar to one Ashwani Kumar in the
 year 2004 for arranging French Visa. He deposed that he could not get the passport
 and Ashwani Kumar also did not met him thereafter nor he knew the whereabouts of
 Ashwani. 8. Summons were sent to the complainant several times but the same were received
 back unserved. Thereafter, PE was closed. Statement of accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C. was dispensed with as there was nothing incriminating against the accused
 persons. 9. Arguments were heard. I have heard the arguments advanced by the Ld. A.P.P for
 the State as well as by the counsel for the accused and have given my thoughtful
 consideration to the same. 10. Summons were sent to the complainant several times but the same were received
 back unserved. The prosecution has failed to examine the complainant in this case.
 Ct. Subhash Chand who was a crucial witness in this case has resiled from his

FIR no. 178/04 page 4 of 5
 earlier statement. He earlier stated that IO had inquired Bhupender SIngh and
 conducted his search. On search of the accused, two passports and some papers
 were recovered. IO prepared the seizure memo and took them into his possession.
 The search of the accused Kuldeep Singh was also conducted and a passport was
 recovered from his possession which was issued from Jallandhar and same was
 bearing the name of Harpreet Singh. But on his cross-examination by the Ld. A.P.P
 for the State, he stated that two Canadian Blank Visas were recovered from the
 possession of the accused Bhupender Singh and not the passport. He deposed that
 he forgot this fact due to the passage of time. He further stated that the forged
 Canadian Visa was affixed on the passport which was recovered from the
 possession of accused Kuldeep Singh. The testimony of this witness is full of
 contradictions and does'nt inspire trust. Also despite the information from the secret
 informer, no independent witness was joined in the investigation. Also no,
 reasonable explanation has been given for non-joining of the witnesses. These
 things cast a serious doubt on the prosecution case. 11. There is no sufficient evidence against the accused Bhupender Singh and Kuldeep
 Singh. Hence, they are acquitted of the charges levelled against them. Bail bonds
 furnished on behalf of the accused persons are extended for a period of six months
 under the provision of section 437A Cr.P.C. File be consigned to the record room. It is certified that this judgment contains five pages and each page bears my
signature. No PW is present today. Several opportunities have been availed by the
prosecution to lead evidence. No ground for further adjournment is made out. Hence, PE is
hereby closed. Statement of accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with as there
is nothing incriminating against the accused persons. Arguments heard. Vide separate judgment of even date, the accused Bhupender Singh and
Kuldeep Singh are acquitted of the offences under Section 420 / 511 / 120B IPC . The
accused persons are on bail. Bail bonds furnished on behalf of the accused are extended
for a period of six months under the provision of section 437A Cr.P.C. File be consigned to the record room.