Index to the Judgment

 FACTUAL MATRIX .......................................................................... 5

 THE GRIEVANCE OF REVISIONIST ........................................... 9

 COMMON ARGUMENTS OF RESPONDENTS ......................... 11

 LAW ON FRAMING OF CHARGE ............................................... 13

 THIRD SUPPLEMENTARY CHARGESHEET ........................... 17

 i. Fresh Evidence in Third Supplementary Chargesheet............... 27

 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY AND RIOTING .................................. 30

 i. Scheme of Indian Penal Code , 1860. ......................................... 30

 ii. Analysis of Video Clips and other Evidence ............................. 40

 ROLE OF EACH RESPONDENT: ARGUMENTS AND
 FINDINGS .......................................................................................... 46 Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 2 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 i. Respondent no. 1, 2, 3, 6 and 7: Mohd. Qasim, Mahmood
 Anwar, Shahzar Raza Khan, Umair Ahmed and Mohd. Bilal
 Nadeem. ............................................................................................ 46

 ii. Respondent no. 4 and 5: Mohd. Abuzar and Mohd. Shoaib. ..... 48

 iii. Respondent no. 8: Sharjeel Imam. ............................................. 50

 iv. Respondent no. 9: Asif Iqbal Tanha. ......................................... 54

 v. Respondent no. 10: Chanda Yadav. ........................................... 56

 vi. Respondent no. 11: Safoora Zargar. .......................................... 58

 ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS........................................................... 62

 i. Prima facie case of Unlawful Assembly and Rioting ................ 62

 ii. Right to Protest: Peaceful Protest vs. Violent Protest................ 72

 iii. Remarks against Investigating Agency...................................... 79

 CONCLUSION .................................................................................. 85

 SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The present case before this Court raises questions which go to
 the root of the concepts of Indian Criminal Jurisprudence: the law that
 restrains the society from violent protest and whether it is consistent
 with the Indian Constitution which ensures right to free speech and
 expression, which includes right to peaceful protest and the right of
 law enforcing agency to prosecute individuals who indulge in violent
 protest. More specifically, this Court will deal with the question of
 admissibility of statements obtained from police witnesses and Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 3 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 individuals at different stages of investigation. It will examine whether
 there is any necessity to lay down a procedure for the investigating
 agency to put the entire investigated material before the Court and
 inform the Court that they have concluded the investigation before
 arguments on charge are heard. 2. This Court starts the discussion with the premise that this Court
 is not innovating jurisprudence of procedure to be adopted at the stage
 of framing of charge by the Courts, which is well established
 extensively by way of various precedents of the Hon'ble Apex Court
 and this Court. The application of principles laid down in such legal
 precedents have long been recognized and applied in varying settings
 of criminal cases. This Court in the present case has undertaken a
 thorough examination of the principles so laid down and reaffirmed it. 3. Arguments in this case were heard where judicial interpretation
 was also sought about the right of prosecution to file repeated
 supplementary charge-sheets to fill in the lacunae at any stage. This
 Court witnessed spirited legal debate from both sides. This Court also
 had occasioned to analyse well thought scholarly material and legal
 precedents tracing the law on riots and its ramifications before arriving
 at its conclusion. 4. The State has filed the present revision petition under Section
 397 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter ' Cr.P.C .')
 seeking setting aside of the impugned order dated 04.02.2023 passed
 by learned Additional Sessions Judge-04, Special Judge (NDPS),
 South-East District, Saket Courts, New Delhi in Sessions case bearing
 no. 318/2022 titled as 'State v. Mohd. Ilyas @ Illen ' whereby learned Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 4 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 Trial Court discharged the respondents herein and proceeded to frame
 charges only against accused no.1 Ilyas @ Illen, in FIR bearing No.
 296/2019 registered at Police Station Jamia Nagar for offences
 punishable under Sections 143 / 147 / 148 // 149 / 186 / 353 / 332 / 308 / 427 / 435 / 323 / 341 / 120B / 34 of Indian Penal Code, 1860
 (hereinafter ' IPC ') and Sections 3 / 4 of Prevention of Damage to
 Public Property Act, 1984 (hereinafter ' PDPP Act '). FACTUAL MATRIX 5. To concisely outline the facts of the present case, it is the case
 of prosecution that an information was received on 12.12.2019 that
 some students/ex-students of Jamia Milia Islamia University
 (hereinafter 'Jamia University'), would be gathering at Gate No. 1 of
 the University on 13.12.2019 and will be protesting against National
 Register of Citizens (hereinafter 'NRC') and Citizenship Amendment
 Bill (hereinafter 'CAB'). It was also informed that these protesters
 were to march towards the Parliament of India from Jamia University.
 Upon receiving such information, necessary police staff was deployed
 to maintain peace and public order, and roads near Gate No. 1 of
 Jamia University were barricaded. It was alleged that at approximately
 3:30 PM, large gathering of people from Gate No. 1 and 5 began to
 converge on the police barricades, while simultaneously protesting
 and chanting slogans against the NRC and CAB. Although police had
 repeatedly urged the gathering to maintain peaceful demonstration, the
 protesters persisted in raising incendiary and antagonistic slogans
 against the government and law enforcement agencies. Despite Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 5 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 multiple warnings and instructions issued by the police that the
 protesters lacked authorization to proceed to the Parliament House,
 and that they could stage their demonstration without breaching the
 barricades, the protesters and the surrounding crowd insisted on
 pushing forward. Given the overall tenor and conduct of the assembly,
 the police apprehended that permitting the mob to breach the
 barricades could provoke a significant disturbance to the law and order
 situation in New Delhi. Allegedly, despite repeated warnings, the
 protesters refused to disperse and instead escalated their aggression by
 throwing stones at the police, and despite use of non-lethal methods
 such as mild force and gas shells to disperse the crowd, the
 protesters/rioters reportedly moved into the University area and
 continued their assault on the police. Following an intense and
 prolonged confrontation, the police were ultimately able to quell the
 violent mob and restore order, and thereafter, the present FIR was
 registered. 6. During the course of investigation, first chargesheet dated
 30.03.2020 was filed qua accused Mohd Ilyas@Allen and prosecution
 had sought time to file supplementary chargesheet in due course of
 investigation. Subsequently, first supplementary chargesheet dated
 22.07.2020 was filed before the Trial Court whereby a complaint
 under Section 195 Cr.P.C was obtained from DCP South-East qua
 accused Mohd Ilyas @ Allen. After that, second supplementary
 chargesheet dated 01.09.2021 was filed before the Court concerned
 against 11 other accused persons i.e. respondents herein, who were
 chargesheeted under Sections 143/147/149/186/ 353/332/333/323/341/ Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 6 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 308/427/435/120B/34 of IPC read with Sections 3 / 4 of PDPP Act.
 Thereafter, third supplementary chargesheet was filed on 01.02.2023,
 whereby certain statements of witnesses and other evidence was
 placed on record by the prosecution. 7. The learned Trial Court proceeded to frame charges only
 against accused number 1 i.e. Mohd Ilyas@Allen and discharged
 remaining 11 accused persons i.e. respondents herein vide impugned
 order dated 04.02.2023. The concluding portion of the impugned order
 is reproduced as under: THE GRIEVANCE OF REVISIONIST 8. Mr. Sanjay Jain, learned Additional Solicitor General (ASG),
 argues on behalf of revisionist i.e. State that the impugned order
 suffers from material infirmities and irregularities, and at the stage of
 framing of charges, Trial Courts cannot indulge in conducting a mini
 trial by determining the pros and cons of the case and as to whether it
 would warrant a conviction or not. It is stated that credibility of
 evidence, especially the statements of witnesses cannot be gone into at
 the stage of framing of charge, as the same can only be tested as the
 stage of trial. It is argued by learned ASG that there is sufficient
 evidence against all the respondents herein for the purpose of framing
 charges and conviction can take place even solely on the basis of
 testimony of police witnesses. A reference has also been made to the
 'Memo of Evidence' against respondents provided in the present
 petition. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191 9. Learned ASG argues that the learned Trial Court has taken
 contradictory stands in so far as third supplementary chargesheet is
 concerned, since on the one hand, the Court observed that the said
 chargesheet was an afterthought and ought not to be considered,
 whereas the Court has conveniently relied upon its contents to arrive
 at a finding that no case was made out against the respondents. It is
 stated that even otherwise, it is a statutory right of investigating
 agencies to conduct investigation and file supplementary chargesheet
 if material is found, and its non-consideration/selective consideration
 for the reasons stated in the impugned order makes the said order
 perverse. 10. It is further submitted on behalf of the State that reliance placed
 upon the decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in Masalti v. State of Uttar
 Pradesh (1964) 8 SCR 133 by learned Trial Court, at the stage of
 framing of charges, is incorrect in law for the reasons that firstly , the
 said decision is a post-trial decision, and at the stage of charge, only
 prima facie view is to be taken as far as fulfilment of ingredients of an
 offence under Section 149 IPC is concerned, and in the present case,
 the respondents were active members of the assembly which turned
 unlawful and violent. Secondly, the test of Masalti v. State of Uttar
 Pradesh (supra) regarding number of witnesses, if at all applicable to
 the present case, was clearly met in the present case as the concerned
 police officials who had got injured during the said incident, had
 categorically identified the present respondents, whose statements
 were filed before the learned Trial Court alongwith the third
 supplementary chargesheet. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191 11. Mr. Jain, arguing on behalf of State, also submits that the
 learned Trial Court has overstepped its jurisdiction in passing
 disparaging remarks against the investigating authorities and has
 casted grave aspersions on the investigation and such remarks ought to
 be deleted/expunged from the record. 12. During the course of arguments, learned ASG also tendered the
 videos of the incident dated 13.12.2019 to this Court, which also form
 part of the Trial Court record, and stated that seven of the respondents
 were identified from the video clip number 3 and 9. COMMON ARGUMENTS OF RESPONDENTS 13. Besides the specific arguments addressed on behalf of each of
 the accused person who stands discharged by the learned Trial Court,
 which have been dealt with in the later part of this judgment, learned
 counsels for the respondents primarily submit that since the
 respondents have been discharged by the learned Trial Court by way
 of a detailed order dated 04.02.2023, it is for the State i.e. revisionist
 to first point out the material defects and illegalities in the impugned
 order. It is argued that the learned Trial Court has meticulously
 considered all the evidence placed on record by the prosecution and it
 is only after examining the same, the Court has reached a conclusion
 that no ground was made out for framing charges against the
 respondents in the present case. 14. It has been contended on behalf of all the respondents that the
 prosecution has failed to bring on record any evidence to show that
 present accused persons were either involved in any kind of violence Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 11 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 that took place on 13.12.2019 outside Jamia University campus, or to
 show that any conspiracy existed among them to commit any criminal
 acts. It is argued that only a grave suspicion against an accused can
 warrant framing of charge and same cannot be done merely on the
 asking of prosecution. 15. It is also stated that learned Trial Court has rightly observed that
 the respondents, who could have been mere bystanders in a protest,
 were roped in as accused in the present case. It is also contended that
 reliance placed on Call Detail Records of the respondents to prove
 their location at place of incident is of no consequence since all the
 respondents were either students or ex-students of Jamia and/or were
 living either in the campus of Jamia or in its vicinity, and thus, their
 mobile location would definitely point out to that area only. 16. It has been further contended on behalf of all the respondents
 that prosecution cannot arbitrarily pick and choose people and arraign
 them as accused from a mob of thousands of persons while levelling
 no allegations against other persons who were part of the mob.
 Learned counsels also argue that there was no prohibitory order under Section 144 Cr.P.C. imposed at the spot of incident i.e. near Jamia
 University. 17. This Court has heard the arguments, at length, addressed by the
 learned counsels appearing on behalf of both State and the
 respondents. The order assailed before this Court and the Trial Court
 Record has been carefully perused and examined. The Court has also
 gone through the written submissions and case laws filed by all the
 parties to buttress their respective arguments. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 LAW ON FRAMING OF CHARGE 18. Before delving into the merits of the case and the contentions
 and issues raised before this Court, it will be germane to summarily
 discuss the position of law qua framing of charge and discharge. 19. As provided under Section 228 Cr.P.C., for a Sessions case, the
 Court shall proceed to frame charges against an accused if in its
 opinion, there are grounds for presuming that the accused has
 committed an offence. Section 228 Cr.P.C. read as under: 20. However, an accused can also be discharged as per Section 227 Cr.P.C., for which, there must be lack of sufficient grounds to believe
 that the accused has committed an offence. Section 227 Cr.P.C. reads Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 13 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 as under: 21. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, in case of Sajjan Kumar v. C.B.I. (2010) 9 SCC 368, held that at the time of framing of charge, the
 Court has to look at all the material placed before it and determine
 whether a prima facie case is made out or not at the time of framing of
 charge, and charges can be framed if it is of the opinion that the
 accused might have committed the offence. The relevant portion of the
 judgment is reproduced herein-under: (Emphasis supplied) 22. In Amit Kapoor v. Ramesh Chander (2012) 9 SCC 460¸ the
 Hon'ble Apex Court,while explaining the scope of Section 227 and 228 of Cr.P.C., had made the following observations: It may even be weaker than a prima facie case.There is a
 fine distinction between the language of Sections 227 and
 228 of the Code. Section 227 is expression of a definite
 opinion and judgment of the Court while Section 228 is
 tentative. Thus, to say that at the stage of framing of
 charge, the Court should form an opinion that the
 accused is certainly guilty of committing an offence, is an
 approach which is impermissible in terms of Section 228
 of the Code." (Emphasis supplied) 23. The aspect as to whether a Trial Court is permitted to marshall
 the evidence or conduct a mini-trial was dealt with by the Hon'ble
 Apex Court in Asim Shariff v. National Investigation Agency (2019)
 7 SCC 148 with the following observations: (Emphasis supplied) 24. The issue of standard of proof versus prima facie view was
 discussed by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bhawna Bai v. Ghanshyam (2020) 2 SCC 217, in the following manner: THIRD SUPPLEMENTARY CHARGESHEET 25. Learned ASG appearing for the State had argued that learned
 Trial Court had erred in disregarding the third supplementary
 chargesheet and that it was a statutory right of investigating authorities
 to carry out investigation in terms of Section 173 Cr.P.C. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191 26. As perused from the impugned order dated 04.02.2023, learned
 Trial Court was not pleased to accept the third chargesheet for two
 broad reasons: firstly, because the prosecution did not take leave of the
 Court to file third supplementary chargesheet and the same was filed
 at a belated stage, and secondly, because the prosecution had presented
 the same mundane facts under the guise of 'further investigation'
 through third supplementary chargesheet. 27. During the course of arguments, learned counsels for the
 respondents, including learned senior counsel for respondent no. 11
 and learned counsel for respondent no. 1, 2, 3 and 6, conceded to the
 fact that there was no bar as such for the prosecution to have filed the
 third supplementary chargesheet in the present case, but stated that the
 learned Trial Court was essentially pained from the fact that the same
 was done at belated stage when the arguments on charge had already
 been heard extensively and the same were to be concluded on the next
 date of hearing. It is further submitted that especially in the
 circumstances of the present case, when the investigation agency was
 aware of the view of the learned Trial Court and about the defence of
 the respondents, they had filed a third supplementary chargesheet to
 fill in those lacunae. Mr. M.R. Shamshad, learned counsel for
 respondent no.1, 2, 3 and 6 also stated that this Court needs to lay
 down some guidelines in this regard so that the investigating agencies
 do not file chargesheets at their own sweet will at any stage of trial
 and take the accused persons by surprise. 28. It is important for this Court to first consider the precedents of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in relation to filing of supplementary Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 18 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 chargesheet. Recently, in Luckose Zachariah v. Joseph Joseph and
 Others 2022 SCC OnLine SC 241, the Hon'ble Apex Court had
 discussed the position of law qua filing of supplementary chargesheets
 as under: section (2)." 12. In terms of sub-Section 8 of Section 173, in the event of
 a further investigation, the report has to be forwarded to the
 Magistrate upon which, the provisions of sub-Sections (2) to
 (6) shall (as far as may be) apply in relation to such report or
 reports as they apply in relation to a report forwarded in
 sub-section (2). In this backdrop, while interpreting the
 above provisions, in Vinay Tyagi (supra) this Court held
 thus: 13. The decision in Vinay Tyagi (supra) was noticed
 together with other decisions of this Court in the judgment
 of a three-Judge Bench in Vinubhai Haribhai
 Malaviya v. State of Gujarat . This Court held: **** 16. In view of the clear position of law which has been
 enunciated in the judgments of this Court, both in Vinay
 Tyagi (supra) and Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya (supra), it is
 necessary for the Magistrate, to have due regard to both the
 reports, the initial report which was submitted under Section
 173(2) as well as the supplementary report which was
 submitted after further investigation in terms of Section
 173(8). It is thereafter that the Magistrate would have to
 take a considered view in accordance with law as to whether
 there is ground for presuming that the persons named as
 accused have committed an offence..." NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191 29. In Virubhai Haribhai Malaviya v. State of Gujarat (2019) 17
 SCC 1 also, Hon'ble Apex had observed as under in relation to the
 scheme of Section 173 Cr.P.C: . 16. What is interesting to note is that the narrow view of
 some of the High Courts had placed a hindrance in the way Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 22 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 of the investigating agency, which can be very unfair to the
 prosecution as well as the accused. 17. Article 21 of the Constitution of India makes it clear that
 the procedure in criminal trials must, after the seminal
 decision in Mrs. Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India & Anr. (1978) 1 SCC 248, be "right, just and fair and not arbitrary,
 fanciful or oppressive" (see paragraph 7 therein). Equally, in Commissioner of Police, Delhi v. Registrar, Delhi High Court, New Delhi (1996) 6 SCC 323, it was stated that Article 21 enshrines and guarantees the precious right of life
 and personal liberty to a person which can only be deprived
 on following the 18 procedure established by law in a fair
 trial which assures the safety of the accused. The assurance
 of a fair trial is stated to be the first imperative of the
 dispensation of justice (see paragraph 16 therein). 18. It is clear that a fair trial must kick off only after an
 investigation is itself fair and just. The ultimate aim of all
 investigation and inquiry, whether by the police or by the
 Magistrate, is to ensure that those who have actually
 committed a crime are correctly booked, and those who
 have not are not arraigned to stand trial. That this is the
 minimal procedural requirement that is the fundamental
 requirement of Article 21 of the Constitution of India cannot
 be doubted. It is the hovering omnipresence of Article 21 over the CrPC that must needs inform the interpretation of
 all the provisions of the CrPC , so as to ensure that Article 21 is followed both in letter and in spirit. **** 31. Hasanbhai Valibhai Qureshi v. State of Gujarat and Ors. (2004) 5 SCC 347 is an important judgment which deals
 with the necessity for further investigation being balanced
 with the delaying of a criminal proceeding. If there is a
 necessity for further investigation when fresh facts come to
 light, then the interest of justice is paramount and trumps the
 need to avoid any delay being caused to the proceeding. The
 Court therefore held: 32. It is also noted that the second supplementary chargesheet dated
 01.09.2021 mentioned at the end, that if any fresh evidence is brought
 out during investigation, the same shall be filed by way of another
 supplementary chargesheet. The relevant portion of second
 supplementary chargesheet reads as under: The first chargesheet also mentions that the suspects were being
 interrogated and MLCs of the injured were being collected, and that
 the police was trying to apprehend and identify the accused persons
 and a supplementary chargesheet would be filed once the same is
 established. It is very clearly mentioned in the first chargesheet that at
 that point of time, the police was not able to investigate the matter due
 to Covid-19 pandemic and after completion of investigation, it would
 file a supplementary chargesheet. This Court acknowledges that soon
 after the incident in question, the unfortunate period of lockdown had
 begun in the country. During this time, all government authorities,
 including the Delhi Police, were preoccupied with making
 arrangements and fulfilling their duties to address the unprecedented
 and unfortunate events occurring. The working of the Court as well as
 the investigating agency were also affected, therefore, the exclusion of
 the said period for being termed as unexplained delay by the Delhi
 Police has to be excused. 34. In the present case, it remains undisputed that the Trial Court
 had previously accepted both first and second supplementary
 chargesheets without any demur or indication for the investigating
 agency to furnish any further chargesheet within the prescribed time
 frame or prior to hearing the arguments on charge. Notably, the
 second supplementary chargesheet explicitly indicated the possibility
 of filing a third supplementary chargesheet, given the ongoing Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 26 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 investigation. In such circumstances, the learned Trial Court could
 have either passed a direction to inform the Court as to whether any
 supplementary chargesheet against the accused persons in question
 was to be filed so that it could proceed to hear arguments on charge,
 however, no such directions have been passed and though it was
 mentioned in the second supplementary chargesheet that the
 investigation is still under way, arguments on charge were addressed
 by both the parties. 35. It is to be noted and given weightage that this chargesheet
 involved investigation of riots involving thousands of people when the
 Covid pandemic was at its peak and the investigation was not being
 carried out continuously and this is duly mentioned in the first
 chargesheet and it should have been taken note of by the learned Trial
 Court also. While the Courts have given weightage of this fact while
 granting relief to the accused(s) by granting them bail as trials and
 investigations were being delayed, the same grace has to be shown to
 the prosecution also as they were not only maintaining law and order
 during one of the most difficult periods of this country in recent time,
 the same police force was also performing many other duties related to
 Covid-19 pandemic, and they were at all places in the society trying to
 help everyone as they could. i. Fresh Evidence in Third Supplementary Chargesheet 36. The observations of the learned Trial Court that no fresh
 evidence was placed on record by way of third supplementary
 chargesheet do not find favour with this Court. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191 37. The learned Trial Court had already accepted the second
 supplementary chargesheet wherein the Court was informed by the
 prosecution as to on which points the investigation was still pending.
 By way of third supplementary chargesheet, further evidence qua
 respondent no. 9 Asif Iqbal Tanha was brought on record as he had
 posted photographs of the incident dated 13.12.2019 on his Facebook
 account on 13.12.2022 and had written as to how he alongwith several
 others had been arrested on the date of incident while they were
 marching towards the Parliament, which was a new fact informed to
 the Court. Even at the time of filing of third supplementary
 chargesheet, information from Facebook was still awaited as the
 police had informed the Court that a notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C.
 had been issued to Facebook regarding the authenticity of the same.
 Learned Trial Court itself had given permission to send the DVD of
 videos to FSL for obtaining opinion which was still awaited and was,
 therefore, part of the evidence relied upon by the prosecution which
 was also a new fact. The prohibitory orders under Section 144 Cr.P.C.
 were imposed on 11.11.2019 in New Delhi district which were
 effective from 13.11.2019 to 11.01.2020 were also filed along with the
 third supplementary chargesheet. Statements of police witnesses who
 were on duty on the day of incident and had suffered injuries were
 also recorded after showing them the videos and photographs of the
 incident and the same were filed alongwith the third supplementary
 chargesheet as well. 38. Though, the Court could have passed a direction order for
 expeditious investigation and the slow investigation in the present case Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 28 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 could have been asked to be expedited however, the fact remains that
 the right of the prosecuting agency as the law stands today, does not
 bar filing of supplementary chargesheets, especially in cases where the
 previous chargesheet already mentions the prayer of the prosecuting
 agency that investigation is still underway and they will be filing
 supplementary chargesheet and it is duly accepted without any further
 direction by the Court. The statements which had been filed along
 with the third chargesheet had to be taken cognizance of by the
 learned Trial Court as it was still at the stage of considering charge
 and filing supplementary chargesheet. The right to file supplementary
 chargesheet was neither closed nor could it have been anyway in view
 of the law as it stands today. Whether the filing of the statements
 along with the third chargesheet was an afterthought or were untrue
 could not have been decided or adjudicated upon by the learned Trial
 Court at the stage of charge itself. 39. It should not have escaped by the parties as well as the Court
 that the investigating agency had yet not concluded its investigation,
 the FSL report was still awaited and that the statements of the
 witnesses were still being recorded by the police. The Court could
 have asked the investigating agency to inform it as to when they will
 conclude the investigation against the present accused persons. 40. As per Section 173(8) Cr.P.C., there is no bar for the police to
 file a supplementary chargesheet. In the present case, the second
 supplementary chargesheet already stood accepted wherein it was
 clearly mentioned that the third chargesheet will be followed and it
 was duly accepted by the learned Trial Court. The third chargesheet Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 29 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 could not be discarded in law. 41. However, as far as propriety of doing so, when arguments on
 charge had been part heard is concerned, this Court also holds a view
 that at the stage of framing of charge, the Court's may put a question
 after filing of the chargesheet and before hearing arguments, and the
 prosecution will inform the Trial Courts as to whether the case was
 ripe for hearing arguments on charge and as to whether the
 chargesheet has been finally filed against the accused, against whom a
 Court is proceeding to hear arguments on charge. UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY AND RIOTING

 i. Scheme of Indian Penal Code , 1860. 42. Since the respondents herein were chargesheeted under several
 provisions of law, this Court deems it apposite to briefly discuss some
 of them in order to appreciate the facts of the case in correct
 perspective. 43. At the outset, this Court takes note of the decision of Hon'ble
 Apex Court in Vinubhai Ranchhodbhai Patel v. Rajivbhai Dudabhai
 Patel 2018 7 SCC 743 whereby the intent of aforesaid provisions was
 summed up in the following manner: (Emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 33 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191 44. To term an assembly of five or more than five persons as an
 unlawful assembly, a common object, as envisaged under Section 141 of IPC is required to be shown. The common object can also be
 formed at the spot and in every case, pre-deliberation as to committing
 an offence is not essential. This is has also been held by Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in case of Inder Singh v. State of Rajasthan (2015) 2
 SCC 734, relevant observations of which are as under: 45. Further, an assembly which may be lawful at the inception may
 turn unlawful due to acts of violence, etc. at a later stage, as provided
 in the explanation to Section 146 IPC. This view is also supported by
 the decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in Moti Das v. State of Bihar 1954 Cri LJ 1708, wherein it was held as under: 9. Previous concert is not necessary. The common object
 required by Section 141 differs from the common intention
 required by Section 34 in this respect." 46. Similar observations were made in Chandrika Prasad Singh v.
 State of Bihar (1972) 4 SCC 140 by the Hon'ble Apex Court. The
 relevant portion of this decision is reproduced herein-under: 47. The essential ingredients of the offence of rioting under Section
 146 of IPC were enunciated by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Lakshman Singh v. State of Bihar (2021) 9 SCC 191, as under: **** 17. Thus, once the unlawful assembly is established in
 prosecution of the common object i.e. in the present case,
 "to snatch the voters list and to cast bogus voting", each
 member of the unlawful assembly is guilty of the offence of
 rioting. The use of the force, even though it be the slightest
 possible character by any one member of the assembly, once
 established as unlawful constitutes rioting. It is not
 necessary that force or violence must be by all but the
 liability accrues to all the members of the unlawful
 assembly. As rightly submitted by the learned counsel
 appearing on behalf of the State, some may encourage by
 words, others by signs while others may actually cause hurt
 and yet all the members of the unlawful assembly would be
 equally guilty of rioting. In the present case, all the accused
 herein are found to be the members of the unlawful
 assembly in prosecution of the common object i.e. "to
 snatch the voters list and to cast bogus voting" and PW 5,
 PW 8, PW 10 & PW 12 sustained injuries caused by
 members of the unlawful assembly, the appellant-accused
 are rightly convicted under Section 147 IPC for the offence
 of rioting." 48. It is noteworthy that the word 'force' is defined under Section
 349 of IPC but the word 'violence' has not been defined. The word
 'violence' has been defined in Black Laws Dictionary, sixth edition,
 p.1570, as "unjust or unwarranted exercise of force". The word Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 36 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 'criminal force' has been defined under Section 350 of IPC. Therefore,
 there is a difference between the word 'force' defined under Section
 349 of IPC and word 'criminal force' defined under Section 350 IPC.
 What is noteworthy is that for the commission of offence of rioting
 under Section 146 IPC, there has to be use of 'violence' or 'force' as
 against 'criminal force'. 49. As mentioned above, Section 141 defines an 'unlawful
 assembly' whereas Section 146 defines 'rioting'. The difference
 between unlawful assembly and rioting lies in the fact that to be a part
 of unlawful assembly, there need to be at least five persons whose
 common object to be achieved is one of those mentioned under the
 said provision. When this unlawful assembly employs use of force or
 violence to achieve its common object, such a situation would fall
 under the ambit of 'rioting' as defined under Section 146 IPC. 50. The Delhi High Court Rules, Volume III Chapter 4 also
 deals with 'Trial of Riot Cases', the relevant extract of the same is
 reproduced hereinunder for reference: 51. The respondents have also been accused of commission of
 offences under Sections 186 and 353 of IPC, which read as under: 52. Section 353 uses the terms 'assault' and use of 'criminal force'.
 The term 'criminal force' has been defined under Section 350 of IPC
 and 'assault' has been defined under Section 351, which are
 reproduced herein-under: 53. The distinction between an offence under Section 186 and
 Section 353 was explained by the Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Durgacharan Naik v. State of Orissa (1966) 3 SCR 636 in the Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 39 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 following manner: and are very violently pushing the barricades against the handful of
 policemen who were holding of the barricades. 70. They were consciously part of the assembly which had turned
 violent and consciously did not leave the place of such violence and
 chose to remain part of it by insisting on going to a curfew imposed
 area. They would have also known that while they were pushing the
 barricades against those few policemen, in case they would have
 succeeded, grievous injuries would have been caused to the police
 officers. They were, therefore, with the violent mob of protesters and
 it cannot be distinguished that they did not have the object collectively Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 47 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 as that of the entire mob. Even otherwise to reiterate, the law of rioting
 envisages vicarious liability of each participant of an unlawful
 assembly. 71. Two independent witnesses i.e. Mr. Nizam and Mr. Salauddin
 in their initial statements recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C.
 identified respondent no. 1 and 3 to be a part of the violent mob, and
 further identified respondent no. 1, 2, 3, 6 and 7, from the photographs
 developed from the video clips, in their supplementary statements
 recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. The respondent no. 1 and 6 were
 also identified by one witness namely Mr. Bilal Ibnu Shahul, who was
 a student of Jamia University. All of them were further identified by
 several police witnesses, statements of whom are annexed with the
 third supplementary chargesheet. ii. Respondent no. 4 and 5: Mohd. Abuzar and Mohd. Shoaib. 72. Learned counsel for respondent no. 4, Ms. Kajal Dalal, and
 learned counsel for respondent no. 5, Mr. Ayush Shrivastava, argued
 that there was no evidence against these respondents to show that they
 were a part of the mob or assembly that had turned violent and
 unlawful. It was stated that they were detained under Section 65B of
 Delhi Police Act at Police Station Badarpur, but no action was taken
 against them and their name do not find mention in the first
 chargesheet. It was stated that they were only peaceful protesters and
 that there is no video or photograph to show their presence at the place
 of incident on 13.12.2019. 73. A perusal of record reveals that both Mohd. Abuzar and Mohd. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 Shoaib were detained by the police under Section 65B of Delhi Police
 Act and taken to PS Badarpur on 13.12.2019. Statement of Inspector
 Vijay Pal Dhaiya, the then SHO of PS Badarpur was recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. who stated that 42 persons were detained from the
 place of incident at around 5-5:30 PM in order to maintain peace. The
 CDR locations of respondent no. 4 and 5 also confirm the fact that
 they were present at the spot of incident. 74. Thus, these respondents were detained by the police due to them
 being members of unlawful assembly. However, the statements as
 perused from all the chargesheets will reflect that there is no clear
 indication that they were violent or had damaged property. But, it is
 indicated from the statements that they were part of the unlawful
 assembly after it was so declared at the spot by the senior officers of
 the police by loud-hailers and continued to be part of it consciously.
 They do not dispute that they had been detained by the police, and the
 statements produced before this Court reveal that the persons, detained
 on that very day, were from the unlawful assembly itself, who were
 shouting and raising slogans. To maintain peace in the area, they had
 been detained and taken to the police station for one and a half hours
 and were later let off also. Thus, this Court cannot rule out their
 involvement in the unlawful assembly at the very threshold. 75. Therefore, in this Court's opinion though prima facie it is clear
 that they were part of the unlawful assembly, the very essential of
 crossing the threshold of being part of unlawful assembly and
 thereafter stepping into area of being defined as a rioter by using
 violence or force is not reflected qua respondent no. 4 and 5. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 iii. Respondent no. 8: Sharjeel Imam. 76. Mr. Talib Mustafa, learned counsel addressed arguments on
 behalf of respondent no. 8 and stated that there was nothing on record
 to show that Sharjeel Imam was part of the alleged rioting mob on the
 day of incident as there was no photographs or video or any eye
 witness to support the case of prosecution. It was argued that
 respondent no. 8 only campaigned in favour of peaceful protests and
 not violence, and he was himself a victim of violence on the day of
 incident as his spectacles were broken during the course of protests. It
 was also contended that he had left the place of incident within a short
 period of time and was not a part of the assembly which may have
 turned unlawful later on as can also be inferred from his CDRs. On the
 issue of speeches delivered by respondent no. 8, it was submitted that
 the speech on 13.12.2019 was delivered at around 7:30 PM which was
 much later than the incident of violence and the same was a subject
 matter of another FIR and could not be considered in the present case,
 and further that the speech delivered on 16.01.2020 at Aligarh Muslim
 University would only show that he campaigned in favour of chakka
 jaam which is not a violent means of protest. 77. During investigation, the second supplementary chargesheet
 clearly mentions that accused Sharjeel Imam had on 13.12.2019 given
 a provocative speech at Jamia University. The relevant portion of the
 said speech which has been relied upon by the prosecution in the
 chargesheet, has been reproduced as under: 78. The said speech indicates that Sharjeel Imam had stated that
 they were distributing the pamphlets regarding protest, and further that
 he himself talked about 'destruction' and also said that those who
 were protesting should know as to what they should do for the protests
 and should be ready to take blows of lathis. He can be clearly seen
 instigating the mob and preparing them for further action, and he says
 that on 13.12.2019, there were 3000 to 4000 persons gathered at the
 spot as they had been distributing pamphlets for last two weeks, and
 thus, it can only be imagined as to how many people could gather on
 the day of jumma next week. It is, thus, clear that he had common
 intention and that he was part of the overall intent and object of the
 unlawful assembly. 79. Further on 16.01.20220, respondent no. 8 had also delivered a
 provocative speech at Aligarh Muslim University, wherein he had
 admitted about his presence at Jamia University on 13.12.2019. The
 relevant portion of the said speech is reproduced as under: 80. Though respondent no. 8 is not seen at the spot in the video
 clips submitted by the prosecution, he himself admits to the same in
 his speech of 16.01.2020 that he was present at the spot. The speech
 delivered by him on the evening of 13.12.2019 is also part of the
 chargesheet, which has not been disputed by him. The CDR location Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 53 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 of his mobile phone also points to his presence at the spot. Further, he
 himself does not dispute his presence during the incident in question
 on 13.12.2019 and states that his spectacles had got broken during the
 incident. It is also to be noted that present respondent was not even a
 student of Jamia University, as mentioned in the chargesheet, and was
 rather a student of Jawahar Lal Nehru University and a resident of
 hostel of the said university. His presence on 13.12.2019 in another
 university is not illegal, however, his speech at Jamia University
 which was provocative shows that he was also part of the mob which
 was instigating and provoking which he also admits on 16.01.2020 in
 his speech at Aligarh Muslim University. In case he was a victim of
 the violence, there is no complaint lodged by him in this regard. iv. Respondent no. 9: Asif Iqbal Tanha. 81. Arguments on behalf of respondent no. 9 i.e. Asif Iqbal Tanha
 were addressed by learned counsel Ms. Sowjhanya Shankaran, who
 stated that even if all the evidence placed on record by the prosecution
 is accepted as true, no grave suspicion will be made out against him
 for commission of any of the alleged offences. It was argued that
 respondent no. 9 was detained under Section 65B of Delhi Police Act
 at Police Station Badarpur, but no action was taken against him and
 his name does not find mention in the first chargesheet which points
 out that he was not an aggressor or part of the violent mob, and was
 rather a bystander and a peaceful protester. It was stated that there is
 no allegation of rioting against Asif Iqbal Tanha levelled by any of the
 witnesses, and he was also not a part of the videos and photographs Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 54 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 relied upon by the prosecution on the basis of which other seven
 respondents were identified by the witnesses. 82. A perusal of record reveals that Asif Iqbal Tanha was detained
 by the police under Section 65B of Delhi Police Act and taken to PS
 Badarpur on 13.12.2019. Statement of Inspector Vijay Pal Dhaiya, the
 then SHO of PS Badarpur was recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C.
 who stated that 42 persons were detained from the place of incident at
 around 5-5:30 PM in order to maintain peace. Further, ASI Dhaniram
 in his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. stated that around 40-45
 persons were picked up from the Jamia riots on 13.12.2019 and
 identified respondent no. 9 as he was the loudest among all the
 detainees and was shouting and arguing with him. The identification
 was done in presence of HC Vikas Kumar, whose statement has also
 been recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. 83. However, it is further the case of prosecution that during
 investigation, it was revealed that Asif Iqbal Tanha had posted
 photographs on his Facebook account on 13.12.2022 i.e. third
 anniversary of Jamia violence incident whereby he had written that he
 was detained at PS Badarpur along with his associates on 13.12.2019
 and had himself admitted that they were stopped by police while they
 were marching to Parliament, and he had also posted a photograph
 showing that he was in custody of police in a bus. The said post,
 containing photographs and videos of the day of incident, is still
 visible on the Facebook account of respondent no. 9. In the
 photographs posted by himself, respondent no. 9 can be seen to be a
 part of unlawful assembly, which he does not deny, therefore, the Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 55 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 observation of the learned Trial Court or the contention of the learned
 counsel for respondent in this regard regarding he being chargesheeted
 at later stage is explained at this stage that such active participation
 with the crowd by his own admission became available to the police
 by way of such social media post also, as the police were still
 investigating and trying to get the accused and participants as well as
 injured identified. The third supplementary chargesheet also mentions
 that further investigation qua Asif Iqbal Tanha was underway and
 more evidence could be brought on record against him at a later stage. 84. Respondent no. 9 is placed similarly as respondent no. 4 and 5,
 as he was also detained by the police due to being a member of the
 unlawful assembly, after it was so declared at the spot by the Senior
 Officers of the police by loud-hailers and continued to be part of it
 consciously. But there is no clear indication by way of any statement
 of any witness or any video or photograph to show that he was a part
 of any violent mob or had damaged property. 85. Thus, considering the fact that he had to be detained at the spot
 itself at around 5-5:30 PM and taken to police station so as to maintain
 peace, and taking note of his Facebook post whereby he had himself
 admitted that he was apprehended while he was marching towards the
 Parliament, this Court cannot reach a conclusion that no case at all is
 made out against the present respondent. v. Respondent no. 10: Chanda Yadav. 86. Mr. Ayush Shrivastava, learned counsel argued on behalf of
 respondent no. 10 i.e. Chanda Yadav, that respondent no. 10 was a Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 56 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 mere bystander at the site of protest and had not indulged in any kind
 of violence. It was stated that as visible from the photographs and
 video clips, the said respondent was standing peacefully on a top of
 barricade along with a police officer and she had climbed the
 barricade out of fear of being run over by a mob of protesters who
 were pushing her from behind. It was also stated that since Chanda
 Yadav was a student of Jamia University, her mere presence there
 alongwith thousands of other protesters cannot be the basis to frame
 charge for any offence. 87. This Court has seen video clip number 3, in which respondent
 no. 10 i.e. Chanda Yadav can be seen standing on a barricade and is
 part of the unlawful assembly which is raising slogans against the
 Delhi police. The violent mob of hundreds and thousands of persons
 can also be seen pushing the barricades, against which the policemen
 were trying to defend. 88. The video clip number 3 as well as other videos also show the
 distinction between the rioters and the bystanders, as several
 bystanders who may be students as they carrying bags etc., are seen on
 the other side of the road quietly standing as well as leaving the area,
 whereas the rioting mob is clearly visible which is raising slogans and
 pushing the barricades violently. Many of the members of the mob are
 standing on the barricades and the policemen being clearly
 outnumbered by the mob, which had probably taken them by surprise,
 were not able to hold on to one or two barricades which is also visible
 in video clip number 3. The intensity and the force with which the
 barricades were being pushed indicate that the assembly of the persons Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 57 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 at the spot, even if it may have started with lawful purpose, but with
 their violent means and behaviour had turned into an unlawful
 assembly. The law on the point regarding riots is clear, as it has been laid down in the case of Lakshman Singh v. State of Bihar (supra)
 that in case of rioting, every member of unlawful assembly is
 vicariously liable for the acts of the other members even if he may
 have not used the force himself. 89. In the present case, prima facie, Chanda Yadav is not standing
 as a mere bystander which is visible in the video itself as she is
 standing on a barricade among the members of a violent mob. Had she
 been just a bystander, she could have left the spot as many others were
 doing so. Respondent no. 11 has been identified by three public
 witnesses, namely Mr. Nazim, Mr. Salauddin and one Mr. Bilal Ibnu
 Shahul. She has also been identified by police witnesses namely Ct.
 Shaitan Singh, HC Deendayal, HC Ram Kishor, HC Narender Kumar,
 ASI Narender Singh and Ct. Dharmendra Jat in their respective
 statements and supplementary statements recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., besides being also named by seven co-accused persons. vi. Respondent no. 11: Safoora Zargar. 90. Ms. Rebecca John, learned Senior counsel addressed arguments
 on behalf of respondent no. 11 i.e. Safoora Zargar, and stated that
 respondent no. 11 was neither named in the FIR nor in the chargesheet
 dated 30.03.2020 or first supplementary chargesheet dated 22.07.2020,
 but was arraigned as an accused in present case vide second
 supplementary chargesheet dated 01.09.2021 wherein it was alleged Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 58 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 that she was seen standing near the barricades, outside Jamia
 University and was one of the rioters. Three-fold arguments were
 addressed by learned Senior counsel. It was firstly contended that
 prosecution has to cross the 'threshold of identification' and the
 present respondent has been allegedly identified by the witnesses from
 video clip number 9, but a bare perusal of that video would show that
 a person, whose face is covered, has been identified as Safoora Zargar,
 whereas it is impossible for anyone to recognize with certainty the
 person shown in the video and it is difficult even to decipher as to
 whether the said person is a man or a woman. Secondly, it was argued
 that respondent no. 11 has been identified from the video clips by two
 independent witnesses namely Nizam and Salauddin, who were not
 present at the spot of incident and they have not averred as to how
 they were able to identify a person whose face was covered. It was
 further stated that as far as the statements of co-accused persons are
 concerned, the same cannot be relied upon. Thirdly, it was contended
 that the CDR location of the present respondent was inconsequential
 as she was an M.Phil. student of Jamia University and used to reside
 only around 300 meters from the place of incident, and thus, her
 location would be of that area only. 91. In order to appreciate the aforesaid arguments and the case of
 prosecution against respondent no. 11, this Court has seen video clip
 number 9 since the contention of the learned Senior counsel was that
 the woman, who is seen in a muffled face as part of the mob, could not
 have been identified by anyone as her face is not clearly visible.
 Learned Senior counsel, however, has not stated that the said woman Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 59 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 in the video is not a part of the violent mob. 92. This Court, while keeping in mind the law on the point of
 charge, has gone through the statements of two independent witnesses
 i.e. Mr. Nizam and Mr. Salauddin, who are the caretaker and peon
 posted in Ambedkar hostel of Jamia University respectively. It is
 admitted case of respondent no. 11 that she is a student of the
 university in question. A caretaker in the University campus and the
 other employee whose designation has been reflected as peon, have
 stated in their statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that since they see
 the students frequenting the canteen regularly, they were able to
 identify her, though she was wearing a mask and had her face covered.
 A person who meets or watches a person day in and day out on a
 regular basis cannot be said to be not in a position to have identified a
 person who is wearing a mask since identification can be based also
 on the physical appearance among several other things. Since two
 independent witnesses supported the prosecution case that the woman
 who is part of the violent mob is respondent no. 11, the case of
 prosecution cannot be thrown out discarding the two statements of
 independent witnesses at the threshold of the trial which is yet to
 commence. 93. While discarding statements recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. of independent witnesses, the Courts so adjudicating have to
 give reasons as to why they are disbelieving at the threshold i.e. at the
 stage of charge, such statements recorded by the police even before
 the prosecution has been given an opportunity to examine the said
 witnesses even on point of identification of accused who is seen Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 60 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 wearing a mask. Needless to say, such question will have to be asked
 to the witnesses when their testimonies will be recorded and they will
 be tested on the touchstone of cross-examination. Holding at this stage
 that the independent public witnesses have given false statements will
 be against the settled principles of law at the stage of charge. 94. Furthermore, a perusal of the video clip number 9 would also
 show that this is not a case where no overt act can be attributed to the
 present respondent as the video clip clearly reveals that the woman
 who is in mask, identified by the public witnesses who are employees
 of the concerned university to be respondent no. 11, can be seen to be
 at the forefront of a violent mob which is pushing and throwing the
 barricades including her, which by no stretch of imagination can be
 said to be a protest by peaceful means. The commotion and the
 number of stones pelted, which can be seen in the video clips, point
 out that the protest was anything but peaceful. 95. The stones were pelted, as is clear from the video clips, from
 the side of the violent mob and it is difficult while adjudicating a case
 of rioting to point out specifically at times, as to who had stone in his
 hand and who pelted it. The law on riots is clear as laid down in the
 case of Lakshman Singh v. State of Bihar (supra). Going by the
 principles explained therein by the Hon'ble Apex Court, even if it is
 presumed for a moment that respondent no. 11 is only seen walking in
 close association with other members of the rioting mob and pushing
 the barricade while others also had dandas, stones and tyres in their
 hands, the same being adequately visible in clip number 9, the liability
 of the said respondent cannot be denied. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS

 i. Prima facie case of Unlawful Assembly and Rioting 96. The video clips of the incident tendered by the State to this
 Court, and also filed before the learned Trial Court, will reveal that an
 uncontrollable mob allegedly of students who had turned violent and
 had dandas in their hands, were pelting stones continuously, were
 pushing and pulling barricades, climbing barricades, were forcibly
 trying to go beyond the barricades which had been put up by the
 police to enforce rule of law, had pulled out and damaged the iron grill
 which was the road divider had pulled out and damaged the sign board
 of Police Station Jamia Nagar and the conscious presence and
 participation of the accused therein would point out towards their
 being part of unlawful assembly and rioting. 97. The video clips also reveal that a human chain of policemen
 were holding on to the barricades from one side, and a large number of
 rioters were pushing the barricades against them forcibly including
 respondent no. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 10. They did not even consider and
 must be having knowledge that considering the weight of the
 barricades, in case the barricades would turn upon the policemen it
 will cause injuries to police officials and other public persons
 including media persons standing on the other side. 98. It was State's duty to prevent rioting and violent action. If no
 timely action was taken and the police force would have allowed the
 public property being put on fire and rioters being allowed to flout
 orders of Section 144 Cr.P.C. and reach the place where curfew had Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 62 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 been imposed, the State would have been accused of dysfunctional
 and ineffective Government machinery who could not control eruption
 of violent collective action. The videos will prima facie reveal that the
 level of opposition which was encountered by the law and enforcing
 agency was probably not expected by them. 99. As already discussed at length in preceding paragraphs, the
 assembly that gathered on 13.12.2019 was not peaceful as is also
 indicated by the number of bricks and stones pelted at the police force
 which was also collected from the spot and is case property. The burnt
 tyres, damaged vehicles, etc., are also part of the case property which
 will have to be produced during the trial to test the veracity of the
 statement of the witnesses as well as the prosecution story. The ropes
 which were burnt by the rioters mentioned in the first chargesheet had
 turned into ashes and therefore, could not be recovered; the iron grill
 which was broken by the protesters/rioters was also complained
 against as well as Police Station Jamia Nagar signboard which had
 been broken was also informed to the concerned authorities. 100. As far as the argument that a person who is a mere bystander,
 without having done any overt act cannot be held guilty even prima
 facie to be part of unlawful assembly is concerned, this Court in the
 preceding paragraphs has specifically mentioned and described the
 overt acts seen in the video clips pertaining to the respondents, and for
 those who are not visible in the video clips, their role is clear from the
 transcript of the provocative speeches or other material evidence
 placed on record. Further, as laid down in the case of Vinubhai
 Ranchhodbhai Patel v. Rajivbhai Dudabhai Patel (supra), it is not Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 63 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 essential that each and every member of the unlawful assembly must
 commit an offence in furtherance of the common object of assembly
 and mere knowledge of the likelihood of commission of such an
 offence by the members of the assembly is sufficient. Similarly, in
 case of rioting, as held by a 4-judge bench of Hon'ble Apex Court in
 case of Mahadev Sharma v. State of Bihar (1966) 1 SCR 18, every
 member of unlawful assembly is guilty of the offence of rioting even
 though he may not have himself used force or violence, thus
 confirming the principle of vicarious liability. Thus, it may follow that
 use of force by any member of an unlawful assembly, especially in the
 present case where they had turned violent for a common object of
 violating Section 144 Cr.P.C. and indulging in violence and damage to
 public property, will attract Section 146 of IPC. It is to be noted that
 the term 'violence' may not be restricted to the force against living
 beings but also will extend to usage of force against non-living objects
 as in the present case, breaking of barricades and iron grills, and
 putting the public and private property and vehicles on fire [See
 Lakshmi Ammal v. State of Bihar, AIR 1968 Mad 310]. 101. As far as the contention of the learned counsels for respondents
 that only 11 persons were picked up from a mob of thousands of
 protesters is concerned, the chargesheet clearly mentions that they
 have been identified by the witnesses who were present at the spot and
 the rest could not be identified. Merely because some persons could
 not be identified and have not been chargesheeted at present does not
 give a right of discharge to others who have been identified and
 connected with the offence in question. The non-arrest of several Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 64 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 others cannot be a ground for discharge of the present accused
 persons. Essentially with the mob of thousands of people who were
 pelting stones at the police force, the making of videos and finding of
 witnesses can be difficult. Many of them could not have been arrested
 probably as they could not have been identified and if the present
 accused persons have their identifications and want to disclose their
 identity to the Delhi Police, they may do so as they have every right to
 do that. 102. The lacunas in investigation may be pointed out at the relevant
 stage of trial by the learned Trial Court and not by this Court while
 adjudicating as to whether charges are made out against the accused
 persons or not. 103. It is also not open to this Court to question the prosecution, at
 the state of charge, regarding veracity of the statements of public or
 police witnesses. At the stage of charge, the argument addressed
 before this Court that veracity of the statement could have been gone
 into since they were filed at a belated stage, is not in consonance with
 the law at the stage of charge. In this regard, the decision of Sajan
 Kumar v. C.B.I. (supra) is clear on the point, whereby the Hon'ble
 Apex Court had declined to interfere with the order of framing of
 charge against the petitioner therein who had been named by an eye
 witness after a period of 23 years. 104. The contention of the learned counsels for the respondents that
 all the statements of police witnesses recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. are similar, cannot be taken against the prosecution. All the
 witnesses were present at the spot and were trying to control violent Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 65 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 mob and rioters at the spot. They were part of the same police team
 who were receiving the same instructions and were doing the same
 duty as each other. Since they were witnessing the same incident, at
 this stage, their statements cannot be held against them and tested as to
 whether they are false or concocted which can be ascertained only
 after they are cross-examined in the Court, during trial. It is to be
 noted that the statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. are the
 prosecution case as put forth before the Court alongwith the
 chargesheet and has to be considered at the stage of charge in a limited
 manner to hold a view as to whether on the basis of such statements
 and material, charge is made out against the accused persons or not,
 i.e. if a strong suspicion arises against the accused persons regarding
 commission of said offence and whether on the basis of such
 statements and material, charge can be framed. It is to be noted that
 the statements of the witnesses can be put to questions which can be
 put essentially during cross-examination at the stage of trial and not
 through arguments on charge or at any stage before it. 105. Argument of learned counsels for the respondents that there was
 no question of the police apprehending that the crowd will march to
 Parliament is bereft of any merit. The chargesheet filed by the
 prosecution also reveals that specific information was received by the
 police regarding a large number of persons gathering at the spot and
 wanting to go to the Parliament. The recent Facebook post dated
 13.12.2022 of respondent no. 9 Asif Iqbal Tanha also reveals that the
 protesters had decided to march to the Parliament on 13.12.2019 for
 protesting against the Government policies of NRC and CAB. The two Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 66 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 speeches of respondent no. 8 Sharjeel Imam also point out the same. 106. In case, the protesting mob did not want to march to Parliament
 though the same has been stated by two of the respondents themselves,
 by one in his speech and other on his Facebook account, it is unclear
 as to why were they throwing and breaking barricades and using force
 against the police for being permitted to march ahead. They were in
 any case, permitted to protest at the place where they were, as is
 clearly audible from the video clips as conveyed by the police through
 loud-hailer. Even if the purpose of their assembly was initially lawful
 to protest against the Government policy, had it been confined to the
 same by peaceful means and there would have been no insistence of
 use of force and violence in order to march to a curfew bound area, the
 case would have been different. In the present era of independent
 social media, in case the violent mob would have been allowed to
 march to the streets of Delhi to the Parliament which was a curfew
 bound area, there was apprehension that more persons could have
 gathered, endangering the law and order situation in Delhi. 107. The contention of learned counsel for respondents that word
 'yahan' had been tried to be changed to 'wahan' is an afterthought
 and points out towards falsity of the statement of the witnesses is also
 bereft of any merit. A perusal of the first chargesheet dated 30.03.2020
 itself reveals that 24 statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. have been
 filed alongwith it. The statement of Inspector Upender Singh
 mentioned in the first chargesheet that the word 'yahan' instead of
 'wahan' was a typographical error in some statements of the witnesses
 will have to be explained during trial. The statement of all the Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 67 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 witnesses which were annexed alongwith the first chargesheet reveal
 that it is mentioned by all the witnesses in their statements that the
 protesters were clearly told that they did not have permission to go to
 the Parliament House as Section 144 Cr.P.C. had been imposed, and
 that they could carry on their protest peacefully without crossing the
 barricades, however, they kept on insisting on going to Parliament
 House. This reveals that it was conveyed to the protesters that they
 could carry on with their peaceful protest at the spot beyond the
 barricades and not move towards the road leading to the Parliament
 House. It means that there was no indication that Section 144 Cr.P.C
 had been imposed at the spot as in case that was so, and it was so
 understood, the police would have asked them to disburse from the
 spot itself saying that they have no permission to assemble at the place
 where they were protesting in large number, as in such a case five or
 more persons could not have gathered at the spot where Section 144 Cr.P.C. is in operation. 108. In this regard, one can read the statements of ASI Jafrudin, ASI
 Ashok Kumar, ASI Narender, Ct. Ram Kishore, SI Subhash Singh, SI
 Mahesh, SI R.S. Dagar, Ct. Ajay, Ct. Vipin, ASI Yogesh, Ct. Anuj,
 and Ct. Vikash, recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and filed
 alongwith the first chargesheet itself. Further, the discrepancies in this
 regard, if any, will be tested during cross-examination. 109. Statement of ACP Guru Sewak Singh, recorded on 24.12.2019
 was also filed alongwith first chargesheet, which clearly mentions that
 the crowd was informed through loud-hailer that they did not have
 permission to go towards Parliament House as Section 144 Cr.P.C. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 was imposed in the New Delhi district. This statement had been filed
 alongwith the first chargesheet itself and not in the subsequent
 chargesheets which should have been taken note of by the learned
 Trial Court. Similar statements qua imposition of Section 144 Cr.P.C.
 in New Delhi district were also given by ACP Jagdish Yadav, HC
 Subhash, Insp. Satish Rana, HC Deendayal and Ct. Dharmender which
 have been filed alongwith the first chargesheet. 110. The fact that all the witnesses in their statements under Section
 161 Cr.P.C., filed alongwith the first chargesheet, have categorically
 stated that Section 144 Cr.P.C. was imposed in the New Delhi area
 and this fact was announced to the protesting mob should not have
 been suspected and should have been given due weightage. However,
 learned Trial Court made it one of its grounds for discharging the
 accused persons on the premise that the said written order under Section 144 Cr.P.C. had not been placed on record and was placed on
 record with the subsequent chargesheet only. There were 24 witnesses
 out of which, 19 stated the similar fact about imposing Section 144 Cr.P.C. in the New Delhi area and that there was no permission to go
 to Parliament House in the first chargesheet itself and this fact having
 been conveyed to the mob, therefore, it could not have been ignored
 only on the basis of non-filing of the said order at the time of filing of
 first chargesheet. 111. The police had already informed the Court that they will be
 filing subsequent chargesheets. Moreover, as far as the identity of the
 accused(s) is also concerned, the witnesses also stated that they had
 seen the persons who had caused injuries to the policemen, had Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 69 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 deliberately attacked the police and had beaten and injured them
 whom they can identify when produced before them. The same
 statement has been made by Sub-Inspector Manish Tyagi, Head
 Constable Subhash, Inspector Satish Rana, Head Constable Deen
 Dayal and Constable Dharmender. In their first statement, at the time
 of filing of the first chargesheet itself, it is stated that the crowd was
 informed by the loud-hailer that Section 144 Cr.P.C. had been
 imposed in New Delhi area, the witnesses also state that they were
 injured by many members of the protesters whom they can identify, if
 produced before them. 112. Another contention of the learned senior counsel for respondent
 no. 11 was that in statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C., ACP Guru
 Sewak Singh and ACP Jagdish Yadav have stated that they can
 identify the 'boys' who had indulged in violence and had attacked and
 injured the policemen and had stopped them from performing their
 duty, and therefore, no female was involved in the incident. In this
 regard, this Court is of the opinion that in contrast to this, statements
 of Ct. Subhash and Insp. Satish Rana can be perused which would
 reveal that in the first chargesheet itself in their statements, they have
 stated that they can identify the 'accused(s)'. The word 'accused' does
 not differentiate between any gender. 113. This Court has also gone through the statement of Head
 Constable Nemi Chand recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and filed
 alongwith the first chargesheet, who states that when the crowd had
 turned violent, SHO Jamia Nagar had called the duty officer of Police
 Station Jamia Nagar to send riot equipments to Jamia University, Gate Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 70 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 No.1 and pursuant to same, Head Constable Nemi Chand had taken 31
 Helmets, 92 ropes, 10 Kenchies, 70 body protectors etc. to Jamia
 University, Gate No.1 and distributed it to the police staff. It also
 points out that even the police did not anticipate that the assembly for
 peaceful protest will turn violent and into unlawful assembly and
 thereafter, turn into a mob of rioters. The witness also states that out of
 the anti-riot equipment sent at the spot, all the ropes were burnt by the
 rioters, a lot of riot equipments were broken, 25 barricades were also
 broken which are part of the record. There is also statement of one Sh.
 Yasin Khan who states that though he had been present at the spot for
 the purpose of videography and photography of the protest march at
 about 10:00AM, it was only at about 3:00 PM that members of the
 assembly had starting pelting stones at the police and had also put the
 private vehicles on fire and he had videographed and photographed the
 same. This witness is a public witness who has also handed over the
 videography and photographs to the police, who also states that the
 protesters had turned violent. 114. The statement of Sh. Shokat Ali Khan also supports, at this
 stage, the case of prosecution, who has also stated that he was a
 resident of Jamia Nagar and was present at the spot to appeal to the
 protesters who had turned violent not to indulge in violence and
 maintain peace. 115. There can be no denying that violence and damaging public
 property and humans will lead to necessary consequences. It is not the
 conspiracy or prior meeting of the mind in the present case, but it is
 the culmination of the actions on the spot with specific intent by Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 71 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 knowing the implications of such actions which attracts the elements
 of the offences alleged. A person may join unlawful assembly at any
 point of time when it is in progress and will be held responsible for all
 he must have done. A previous criminal concert is not essential to be
 established. In case such intent or participation is reflected from the
 material on record, the Court will be justified in framing charges
 against the accused persons. 116. In the present case, the participation of the respondents is in
 different ways and therefore they are being dealt with as such which is
 clear in the preceding paragraphs of this judgment. There are people
 who have used force and violence while participating. There are those
 who are consciously participating in the protest when the assembly
 had turned violent but did not use force. There are those who
 instigated by their speeches and actions and were present at the spot.
 The Court also notes that there were some protesters who left the spot
 when the assembly was turning violent which is also visible in video
 clip and statement of one of them is also on record under Section 161 Cr.P.C. who had appeared for his examination in the University. Thus,
 each respondent has been charged according to the extent of his/her
 role as visible from the material on record. ii. Right to Protest: Peaceful Protest vs. Violent Protest 117. Protecting and promoting freedom of speech and expression is
 not only a fundamental constitutional right but every court is duty
 bound to protect the same. The student community is not a different
 group in itself who enjoys any extra right in this regard but being Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 72 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 citizens of India they have equal right to freedom of speech and
 expression and protest as all other citizens of this country. No doubt
 they can also express their views even if views are unpopular as others
 citizens, however the law protects the right to express one's views and
 protest peacefully but the law does not protect or guarantee the right to
 protest and demonstrate violently, threaten the safety of others and
 damage the public property or threaten and damage their own campus
 and personal safety of others including the law enforcing agency. 118. The eruption of violent collective action which is visible in the
 video clips which have been shown to the Court or were circulated on
 social media and various news channels, still available on record,
 conform to the claim of the prosecution that though one material issue
 of the right of the protesters to protest peacefully against something
 may remain of much importance, the violent collective action which is
 visible in the videos and the slogans raised as well as the placards
 shown in the video clips reveal that this collective action was triggered
 by feeling against a policy of the government. However, since the
 peaceful protest which is unfortunately not visible in any of the videos
 filed by the prosecution nor any videos produced by the respondents to
 controvert the claim of the prosecution that they were part of a
 peaceful protest necessitated the State's duty to enforce rule of law as
 public property was being put on fire and the mob was resorting to
 violent means of protest which have been discussed in detail in the
 preceding paragraphs. 119. In this case, the police was being targeted by pelting stones. As
 there is no confusion about rights of the individuals to express Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 73 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 themselves and to assemble lawfully for lawful purpose, however, the
 assembly of such persons cannot be permitted to violate laws of the
 land or regulations. The police can be seen trying to reason with the
 protesters repeatedly by announcing that Section 144 Cr.P.C. had been
 imposed in the area and a placard had been also displayed at the spot.
 It is true that as per prosecution story, Section 144 Cr.P.C. was
 imposed in the area where they were proceeding i.e. in the New Delhi
 district as they wanted to go to the Parliament. The students therefore
 knew that they were trying to violate the law by insisting on moving
 towards that area and breaking barricades and putting property on fire,
 pelting stones at the spot of Jamia area. Protest by violent means can
 never be part of democracy. 120. Though, in a democracy, there can be no question of dissent
 being suppressed or fundamental right of freedom of expression by
 peaceful means being infringed, however, at the same time, there is no
 place of violent collective action to register one's anguish against
 ideological differences or resistance to a Government policy. The
 video analysis will also reveal that the acts of resistance being
 presented as normal by the present respondents were not peaceful
 resistance but violent protest which had turned into riots. 121. In the present case, argument of the respondents was that it was
 a peaceful protest and at best respondents were either bystanders or
 were part of peaceful protest which is lawful under the constitution.
 This Court, however, notes as discussed in the preceding paragraphs
 of this judgment that the crisis at the spot emerged when the protesters
 turned violent and insisted on violating the law and marching to Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 74 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 curfew bound area which in law they could not have done. The
 protesters turned violent and started pelting stones, breaking
 barricades, standing on the barricades, pushed the barricades against
 the police officers due to their enormous power of presence and large
 number, they succeeded in crossing first barricade which in itself
 prima facie shows the crisis or emerging of situation which could have
 affected the population and constituted a threat to the organized life of
 the citizens which the State is bound to protect. 122. Therefore, essentially, though the fundamental right of the
 assembly that the accused were part of, had to be respected and
 protected, the State could not have compromised with its fundamental
 duty to protect other citizens of their human rights and their
 commitment to ensure rule of law with the aid of constitutional and
 other legal provisions governing the exercise of such powers by the
 State. 123. The beginning of pelting of stones, pushing, kicking and
 breaking of barricades, violent insistence on marching to a curfew
 bound area marked the beginning of the end for the peaceful protest
 for the group of people of assembly. It is clear from the statement of
 witness i.e. HC Nemichand who states that SHO had called him to
 come to the spot with riot gear and instruments as the State did not
 engage in prior restraint nor had restrained the protesters to protest at
 the places where they had gathered to express their thoughts and
 convey their dissent. The protesters were asked to restrain from going
 to curfew bound area only. 124. The emergency powers had to be used to tackle the immediate Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 75 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 urgent crisis which is visible in video clips to save lives of not only the
 Investigating Agency but also of the young students and others person
 at the spot. Whether the limit of legitimate dissent and protest or
 expression was breached or not has to be tested on different
 touchstone at the time of trial and Court has to reach a conclusion at
 that stage. 125. As a rule, peaceful assemblies have to be facilitated without
 restrictions, however, it may be necessary to impose restrictions while
 following requirements set out in human rights law and the restrictions
 should have foundation based on law to achieve legitimate aim and to
 promote substantial public interest. Mere fear, suspicion or
 presumption not based on actual reality will not warrant imposition of
 prior restrictions on assemblies, but case of threat to law and order or
 national security would invite the same. In the present case, the crowd
 turning violent and marching towards curfew bound area had given
 rise to such apprehension and fear which necessitated restricting their
 movement to the area where they had assembled and they were told
 that they can peacefully protest there. The public safety concerns had
 arisen at the spot due to presence of large number of violent protesters
 and their conduct which had created a significant and imminent danger
 of injury to bystanders, media persons, public authorities, passersby
 and damage of public and private property. 126. The primary duty of the police force is to maintain law and
 order. The State was also duty bound to ensure that while some
 persons want to exercise their fundamental right to free speech and
 expression, the fundamental right to life of others was not infringed. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 It was the behaviour of the crowd which gave rise to such
 apprehension, therefore, the argument that the protest was peaceful
 and is not covered under Section 141 IPC is a claim belied by the
 video clips and statements of the witnesses. 127. Needless to say, assemblies cannot be aimed at destroying the
 rights of others to achieve their own. Therefore, the right to freedom
 of peaceful assembly cannot be aimed at destruction of rights and
 freedom of others who were not part of that protest. The violent
 intention and behaviour of the assembly was difficult to discern ahead
 of their so turning violent. Though, the State has to be accountable for
 their action in case they infringe the fundamental right of freedom of
 speech and expression and use of excessive force, if any,
 disproportionate to the threat at the spot, the protesters also are
 accountable under the Constitution and the duty which runs parallel to
 their fundamental rights to ensure that the assembly had to be
 peaceful, by peaceful means and not in violation of law of the land. 128. Though the right of freedom of expression cannot be
 criminalized, the threat to life of others and public and private
 property preventing public servants from doing their duty, the actions
 of violence and damaging property will certainly attract criminal law. 129. Noting the role of internet and social media, the challenge the
 law enforcing agency will face when provocative actions and speeches
 are delivered on the spot or slogans are raised, violent acts are
 committed, they have tendency to spread within seconds threatening
 the law and order situation in the concerned area. The scale of
 presence of persons in the assembly who had turned violent and aimed Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 77 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 at disrupting peace or violating a law as in the present case, the mob
 which has turned violent at the spot wanted to violate the law by
 marching to the curfew bound area and indulged in violent acts, it
 continued occupying the college campus gates and outside of it while
 continuing to pelt stones, bottles and tubes as one can hear in the
 announcements made through loud-hailer indicate that it was not a
 peaceful assembly to attract protection under the Constitution.
 Assembly which means, gathering of large number of individuals in a
 publicly accessible place for achieving common expressed purpose
 and is a planned and organized assembly may turn into unplanned and
 spontaneous violent and unlawful assembly. 130. The term 'peaceful' would mean conduct of the assembly, lack
 of violence or use of language or action to incite violence. In the
 present case, when the case is judged prima facie at this stage from the
 view point of a human right based approach and use of force by law
 enforcement agency, the video clips on record and the transcript of the
 speech of one of the respondents namely Sharjeel Imam who was part
 of the unlawful assembly, who had delivered a provocative speech on
 13.12.2019 in the Jamia University campus itself, and the subsequent
 violent conduct of the unlawful assembly and its members forced the
 police to ask the assembly to disburse, however, to no avail. 131. This Court also notes that freedom to choose the location or
 route of the assembly in a public accessible place may, on most of
 occasions, be legitimate right and their use may be protected by right
 to freedom and peaceful assembly or expression, subject to relevant
 rules, regulations and necessary permissions in this regard. However, Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 78 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 they have equal duty to ensure that they should not infringe the right
 of other individuals to life and protection of their life and property.
 The peaceful assembly has no right to damage public or private
 property and disrupt organized day to day life of other citizens who
 are not part of the protest. iii. Remarks against Investigating Agency 132. The State is also aggrieved by the observations and remarks
 passed by the learned Trial Court in the impugned order while
 discharging the present respondents. 133. Learned ASG for the State argued that it was entirely uncalled
 for the Trial Court to have given such a discourse and to have
 recorded such disparaging observations against the investigating
 agency and its officers, thereby also prejudicing the case of
 prosecution against the accused against whom charges have been
 framed. The revisionist i.e. State assails and seeks deletion of
 following remarks, as highlighted below, from the impugned order: (Emphasis supplied) 134. During the course of arguments, learned counsels for the
 respondents submitted that though the observations were made by the
 Court only after taking note of the conduct of investigating agency,
 they have no objection if the said remarks are expunged from the
 record. 135. The law with regard to deletion of remarks passed by a court
 against police officers and investigating agencies can be traced in
 various judicial precedents. 136. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Dr. Dilip Kumar Deka and Anr. v.
 State of Assam and Anr. (1996) 6 SCC 234, while dealing with the
 tests to be applied for deciding the question of expunction of
 disparaging remarks against authorities, observed as under: *** 7. We are surprised to find that in spite of the above
 catena of decisions of this Court, the learned Judge did
 not, before making the remarks, give any opportunity to
 the appellants, who were admittedly not parties to the
 revision petition, to defend themselves. It cannot be
 gainsaid that the nature of remarks the learned Judge has
 made, has cast a serious aspersion on the appellants
 affecting their character and reputation and may,
 ultimately affect their career also. Condemnation of the
 appellants without giving them an opportunity of being
 heard was a complete negation of the fundamental
 principle of natural justice." (Emphasis supplied) 137. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of West Bengal v. Mir
 Mohammad Omar & Ors (2000) 8 SCC 382 had directed the Courts
 to ordinarily desist from castigating the investigation even while
 ordering acquittal. The relevant observations read as under: 138. Section 6 of Chapter 1, Part H ('The Judgment') of the Delhi
 High Court Rules for "Practice in the Trial of Criminal Cases" 139. This Bench also, in Ajit Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi ) 2022
 SCC OnLine Del 3945 as well as in Sanjay Kumar Sain v. State of
 NCT of Delhi 2023 SCC OnLine Del 1260 had delved into the issue of
 judicial restraint to be exercised by the Courts and refrain from
 passing of unwanted, disparaging and scathing remarks against
 investigating agencies and police officers. 140. The remarks by the learned Trial Court at the stage of charge,
 regarding the dissent being suppressed by the State should have been
 avoided as at this stage it would not have been clear to the learned
 Trial Court itself also as to whether it was the peaceful dissent
 suppressed by the State or State was trying to curb the menace of
 violence and spreading of violence and disturbance in the area
 concerned and working to protect others from violent protesters and
 ensure rule of law to those who were not part of this violent protest. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191 141. Moreover, such scathing remarks or observations pointing out
 lacunae in investigation can surely be made in certain cases, where the
 same is totally essential for the decision of the case, that too by
 keeping in mind the judicial precedents in this regard. 142. Learned counsel for all the respondents also stated that the said
 remarks may be expunged from the record. Keeping in mind the
 aforesaid discussion, the remarks as reproduced in para number 133
 above are thereby expunged from paragraph number 44, 45, 47 and 48
 of the impugned order. CONCLUSION 143. While there is no denial of right to freedom of expression to
 every citizen of this country and the obligation of the judiciary to
 apply these constitutional rights can never be ignored. This Court
 remains aware of its duty to ensure that the rights which are declared
 in words in the constitution should not get lost in reality. This Court
 has tried to therefore, decide the present case in light of constitutional
 and human rights of the individuals qua the offences alleged to have
 been committed by them and their grievance against their alleged false
 implication by alleged overzealous and mala fide police practices in
 this case. Asserting one's right to raise issues in a democratic set up is
 not a crime in India. Though protesting has constitutional protection
 through right of freedom of speech and expression, it is essentially
 subject to peaceful assembly and peaceful association. It is also
 subject to legal parameters relevant to protest and the right to peaceful Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 85 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 assembly like all constitutional rights is subject to "reasonable limits".
 Thus, the State can restrict the rights including the right to protest by
 certain ways without violating the fundamental rights of individuals. A
 protest cannot be allowed to endanger others, damage property,
 restrict essential services and such a protest cannot receive
 constitutional protection. The acts of violence and violent speech that
 instigates violence and endangers rule of law, damage public property
 and peace are not protected under the Indian Constitution. 144. Though the protesters in a democracy have every right to
 protest and freedom of expression and to protest against any
 government policy, however, at the same time the rights so exercised
 by a group of people being aggrieved by anything cannot infringe the
 right of others who want public peace and tranquility as community in
 general and freedom from any disturbance, need for security from
 violence, security of the public property for which they pay taxes and
 their own property which they make by their own hard earned money,
 thus the protests are subject to non-infringement of the same and also
 non-infringement of law of the land. 145. The decision of the Court has to guarantee procedural protection
 to the respondents to ensure their fundamental constitutional right of
 free expression and ensure that they are not put to trial for no offences.
 However, when there is prima facie evidence as in the present case
 from the statement and material collected and the electronic evidence,
 the Court has to recognize that adequate warning was given to the
 protesters from turning violent and that their assembly in view of the
 violence had been declared unlawful and their conscious decision to Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 86 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 remain part of violent mob, which was pre-requisites to let the
 member make a conscious choice of disbursing and not be part of the
 violence. The circumstances surrounding the present incident which
 has been captured in the electronic evidence in the video clips and
 multiple statements of the witnesses who were present at the spot
 indicate that the protesters were clearly informed that the privilege of
 peaceful protest and protection guaranteed under Article 19 of
 Constitution of India would come to an end in case of persisting
 violence and the protesters indulging in violating the law under
 various sections of Indian Penal Code and other relevant provisions of
 law in force. 146. This Court is not expressing that peaceful protest are
 impermissible but questions the line crossed between the peaceful
 protest permissible under the law and duty of the law enforcement
 agency to ensure non violence and rule of law. 147. At the stage of charge, while continuing to follow the rules laid
 down by the Hon'ble Apex Court, the totality of circumstances and the
 material on record has to be considered depending on facts of each
 case. The fine points of such guidelines as laid down in the judicial
 precedents mentioned in the preceding paragraphs are clear which are
 designed to guard against mala fide prosecution based on insufficient,
 inadmissible, inadequate material on record at the stage of charge.
 True, at the stage of charge, the order cannot be based on one sided
 appraisal of the material of the competing interest. The method and
 extent to do so has been laid down in the judicial precedents. The
 Court is not open to testing admissibility or veracity of the witnesses Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 87 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 at the stage of charge by oral cross-examination of such statements
 through oral arguments of the respondents. This is permissible only
 through cross-examination of the witnesses when they appear in Court
 at the relevant stage of trial. 148. To allow questioning of veracity of statement or to hold that the
 statements of all the witnesses examined by the prosecution under Section 161 of Cr.P.C are false will amount to allowing to prejudge
 whether the statements are false and inadmissible or information
 gathered and produced before the Court is of no consequence. 149. This Court, while deciding the present case has not relied on the
 admissions and confessions of the respondents, though it was argued
 that they were voluntarily and freely made, how so ever incriminating
 they may be, as this Court has long read the Constitution and laws to
 not rely on confession made in the police custody. The Court has
 relied on material which has been discussed in detail and does not
 agree with learned Trial Court that only the confessional statements
 which are non-admissible in law were available on record against the
 present respondents. Though the concern of the Court is with those
 who have been confined by law, the modern technology as in the
 present case has helped to bring evidence on record, prima facie to
 believe that there is strong suspicion against respondents regarding
 commission of offences as pointed out in the next para. 150. Therefore, in view of the foregoing discussion and for the
 reasons stated in para number 65 to 95 of this judgment, this Court
 holds as under: ii. Respondent number 4, 5 and 9 are charged for
 commission of offence punishable under Section 143 of
 IPC, and not under other sections of law mentioned in
 the chargesheet since there is not enough material
 against them to implicate them under those sections of
 law. 151. As far as Section 308 and 323 are concerned, the specific
 statements of the witnesses are against accused Mohd. Iliyas, against
 whom charges have been framed, that he had consciously with
 intention to cause injuries to them had hit them with a brick. Such
 statements are missing qua present respondents that they had hit or
 caused specific injuries to the police officials present at the spot. For
 Section 308 or 323 IPC , there has to be a specific overt act of a person
 with intention to cause injuries to be covered under said sections and
 the vicarious liability in this regard cannot be fixed for want of
 specific and clear intention or knowledge. However, in case any
 evidence comes on record against any of the accused persons during
 trial regarding the offences they have been discharged of, the Trial Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 89 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2023:DHC:2191

 Court may proceed as per law against them. 152. The learned Court has however stated that the police can further
 investigate the matter and bring to book any other accused if so
 identified involved in the violence. The said finding is not disturbed
 by this Court, however, the impugned order is set aside in entirety
 regarding discharge of respondents herein. 153. Accordingly, the present petition stands disposed of in above
 terms. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. 154. It is, however, clarified that this Court has not returned any
 finding on the merits of the case and the observations made
 hereinabove are only for the purpose of deciding present petition. 155. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 MARCH 28, 2023/ns

 Click here to check corrigendum, if any Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P. 141/2023 Page 90 of 90 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:28.03.2023 17:01:01