State. Heard counsel for the parties. This is first bail application filed by the applicant,
who has been arrested in connection with Crime
No.9/2014 registered with S.T.F. Police Station, Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM examination scam
cases- for the offence punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B of I.P.C. and Sections 3(d) (1-2), 4 of the M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam,
1937. The role ascribed to the applicant is that he
impersonated the original candidate during the subject
examination and committed unfair means during the
examination which is an offence under the above
stated enactments. It is however not in dispute that
the applicant was arranged by Ramprakash Yadav who
introduced the applicant to middleman Yogendra Singh
Solanki. It is also not in dispute that the original
candidate for whom the applicant appeared as
impersonator has been granted bail by this Court in
M.Cr.C. No.11886/2014. Similarly, Yogendra Singh
Solanki has also been released on bail by this Court. As
regards Ramprakash Yadav, who was responsible to
 engage the applicant in the commission of the offence,
is in jail. Moreover, the charge-sheet has already been
filed against the applicant, which presupposes that the
investigation against the applicant is complete as of
now. The applicant through counsel undertakes to
extend full cooperation to the Investigating Officer if
and when required for further investigation. He further
undertakes to eventually attend the Court proceedings
to ensure early disposal of the trial. As the applicant is willing to abide by all the strict
conditions that may be imposed by this Court and
keeping in view that the beneficiary and the
middleman have already been released on bail and
that Ramprakash Yadav is in Jail, in the interest of
justice, we grant bail to the applicant in connection
with Crime No.9/2014 on following conditions: (Rupees One Lac) with two solvent
 local sureties in the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the Trial Court for his
 regular appearance during the trial in
 connection with Crime No.9/2014 in
 Police Station S.T.F., Bhopal. (3) Additionally, the applicant will report
 to the nearest Police Station where he
 would reside at Post Belhi, Police
 Station Marona, District Supol
 (Bihar) once a week on every
 Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00
 noon unless required to attend the
 office of the Investigating Officer at
 Bhopal on that day; and
 (4) The applicant will deposit his
 passport, if available, with the
 Investigating Agency, else file
 affidavit in this Court declaring that
 the applicant does not have any
 passport of any country. This
 compliance will be condition
 precedent for release on bail. The bail application stands disposed of
 accordingly. Certified copy as per rules.