This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 482 Cr.P.C.,
seeking to quash the order dated 29.8.2016 as well as the
proceedings in CCSR No.958 of 2016 in Crime No.11/ACB-CR-1- 
HYD/2015 on the file of the Court of the Principal Special Judge
for SPE and ACB cases, Hyderabad (the Special Court/the Special 
Judge). Pleadings of the petitioner 2. The petitioner filed the present petition contending that the
second respondent, who is a Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) 
representing Mangalagiri Constituency in Andhra Pradesh, belongs
to YSR Congress Party, and who has no connection with Crime 
No.11/ACB-CR-1-HYD/2015 on the file of ACB Police Station, City 
Range-I, Hyderabad (neither informant nor a witness), filed the
private complaint (CCSR No.958 of 2016) against the petitioner
before the Special Court on 08.8.2016. The complaint was filed
basing on the same allegations in the above Crime, in which a
charge sheet had been filed on 27.7.2015. It is pertinent to note
that the complaint does not disclose about the filing of the charge
sheet in the Crime. The impugned order dated 29.8.2016 passed 
by learned Special Judge in CCSR No.958 of 2016 directing the
ACB to conduct thorough investigation and file report under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is legally not sustainable, as the power
under section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is not available to post cognizance
stage i.e., after filing of charge sheet. If the impugned order is
allowed to stand, it would result in an anomalous situation of
registration of second First Information Report (FIR), in connection
with the same incident. The alleged incident is relating to the
elections to the Legislative Council of the State of Telangana for
which the second respondent is no way concerned. The second 
respondent filed the complaint, as a weapon, to wreak vengeance
against the petitioner. The second respondent has no locus standi
to file the private complaint, especially, with a request to invoke
the provisions of Section 210 Cr.P.C., as he is neither a victim nor
an aggrieved person. The relief under Section 210 Cr.P.C., cannot
be granted, as it mandates pre-existence of a private complaint
before the Magistrate, which is not the case herein. The second
respondent has not followed the procedure contemplated under the Cr.P.C ., in filing the complaint; therefore, the complaint is not
maintainable. 3. The complaint was not supported by affidavit. The second
respondent filed the complaint with a prayer to take cognizance of
his complaint and to proceed further in terms of Section 210 Cr.P.C., whereas the learned Special Judge ordered investigation
under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., which is contrary to the relief sought
by the second respondent. Mere endorsement of the learned 
Special Judge that he has gone through the complaint, documents 
and heard the complainant is not sufficient to come to a
conclusion that he has applied his mind at the time of passing the
impugned order under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. The learned Special
Judge passed the impugned order without applying his judicial
mind to the facts of the case and therefore, the order is not
sustainable under law. 4. The petitioner has not committed any offence much less the
offence as alleged by the second respondent. The complaint does
not disclose any cognizable offence either to take it on file or to
refer it to the ACB for investigation. The allegations made in the
complaint are vague, untenable and false. In Criminal Petition
No.5520 of 2015 filed by Jerusalem Mathai (A.4), this Court, by
order dated 03.6.2016, quashed the proceedings against A.4 in
Crime No.11/ACB-CR-1-HYD/2015. As per the observations made 
and findings arrived at by this Court in Criminal Petition No.5520
of 2016, there is no criminal conspiracy in this case; therefore, the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (the PC Act ) has no application
to the facts and circumstances of the case (which judgment,
though challenged before the Honble apex court, is not stayed or
set aside so far). Keeping in view the above findings, the learned
Special Judge acted with undue haste and contrary to judicial
propriety though he has no jurisdiction either to entertain the
complaint or to refer it to the Police for investigation. 5. Hence, the petitioner prays this Honble Court to quash the
complaint in CCSR No.958 of 2016 pending on the file of the
Special Court as well as the order dated 29.8.2016 passed therein.
Pleadings of the first respondent 6. The first respondent filed the counter with the following
averments: It is a fact that the Anti Corruption Bureau, Telangana
State (the ACB) had initially registered Crime No.11/ACB-CR-1-
HYD/2015 against four persons, investigated into the matter and
had filed charge sheet against A.1 to A.4 under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C., before the Special Court on 27.7.2015. As on today, the
investigation in the above crime is still pending against one Sandra
Venkata Veeraiah, MLA, who is subsequently arraigned as A.5, and 
others. In the charge sheet, the ACB has specifically mentioned as
follows: 7. The learned Special Judge had taken cognizance of the
offence against A.1 to A.3 in Crime No.11/ACB-CR 1-HYD/2015, 
numbered the charge sheet as C.C.No.15 of 2016 and A.1 to A.3 
made their appearance before the Special Court on 29.9.2016.
Against the order of this Court dated 03.6.2016 in Criminal
Petition No.5520 of 2015 quashing the proceedings against A.4 in
Crime No.11/ACB-CR 1-HYD/2015, the ACB filed SLP No.5248 of 
2016 before the Honble apex Court on 06.7.2016 and notice was
ordered to A.4. The matter is now pending before the Honble apex
Court. 8. In respect of the same incident, giving rise to one or more
cognizable offences, there can be no second FIR. The ACB has filed
a Memo before the Special Court on 31.8.2016 stating that The
transaction subject matter of the investigation done by the ACB
Telangana in Cr.No.11/ACB-CR-1-HYD/2015 and the subject matter 
in the complaint filed by Sri Alla Ramakrishna Reddy, M.L.A,
Mangalagiri in C.C.SR. No.958/ 2016 are one and the same and the 
same is under investigation as submitted above. 9. There is no prayer in the complaint of the second respondent
to refer the same for investigation under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.
The second respondent filed the complaint with a prayer to deal
with the matter under Section 210 Cr.P.C., only. The provisions of Section 210 Cr.P.C., can be pressed into service when a private
complaint is filed in relation to a transaction, which is the subject
matter of a Crime pending for investigation. Locus standi is alien
to criminal jurisprudence. Hence, this Court may be pleased to
pass appropriate orders in the facts and circumstances of the case.
Pleadings of the second respondent 10. The second respondent filed the complaint under Sections
190 and 200 Cr.P.C., before the Special Court alleging that on
28.5.2015 one Mr.Elvis Stephenson, MLA, representing Anglo- 
Indian Community (hereinafter referred to as the de facto
complainant) submitted a report to the Director General of Police,
ACB, Hyderabad, Telangana State, who in turn forwarded the same 
to the Deputy Superintendent of Police, ACB, City Range-I,
Hyderabad to verify the contents of the report and take action as
per law. In the said report the de facto complainant alleged that
one Mr.Jerusalem Mathai (A.4) approached him and offered an 
amount of Rs.2.00 crores to vote in favour of Telugu Desam Party
(TDP) Candidate in MLC elections in the State of Telangana or in
alternative offered a ticket to leave the country if he wants to
abstain from the voting. It is further alleged that the de facto
complainant was also contacted by Mr.Bishop Harry Sebastian 
(A.2), who offered him a sum of Rs.5.00 crores, to abstain from
casting his vote in the elections to be held on 01.6.2015 or to vote
in favour of TDP candidate and that the entire transaction would
be dealt with by Revanth Reddy (A.1), MLA of Kodangal 
Constituency, Telangana. 11. The DSP, ACB, City Range-I, Hyderabad took up inquiry into
the matter and kept watch on the above named persons and came 
to know that A.2 and A.4 are the followers of TDP (Christian Cell).
On 30.5.2015 at about 10.30 AM the de facto complainant 
informed the DSP, ACB that A.1 and A.2 were coming to his house 
situated at H.No.6-2-101/1/7, New Bhoiguda for discussions on
the deal. Immediately, the DSP, ACB rushed to the residence of
the de facto complainant and got arranged electronic gadgets. At
about 12.00 Noon, A.2 along with A.1 came to the house of the de
facto complainant and A.1 requested him to cast his vote in favour
TDP Candidate, offering Rs.2.50 crores towards quid pro-quo. A.1
also invited the de facto complainant to talk to the petitioner
directly on the deal and assured that such meeting would be 100%
confidential. 12. On 30.5.2015 at about 4.00 PM, A.2 made calls to the
mobile of the de facto complainant, three or four times, and
informed that the petitioner is busy and he would make him (the
petitioner) to call to the de facto complainant whenever the
petitioner finds leisure. Accordingly, at 4.00 PM A.2 made a call to
the de-facto complainant through his mobile number and informed
him that the petitioner wants to talk to him and handed over the
phone to the petitioner, who in turn spoke to the de facto
complainant saying that: 13. After getting seeming approval from the petitioner for
enhancing the bribe amount from Rs.2.5 crores to Rs.5.00 crores,
A.1 and A.2 persuaded the operation further and informed the de
facto complainant that on 31.5.2015 they would be coming, but
requested him to change the place to handover the proposed bribe
amount. Upon which, the de facto complainant informed A.1 and 
A.2 to come to the house of Malcolm Taylor at Pushpa Nilayam, 
Plot No.204 to handover the bribe amount. The de facto
complainant informed the Investigating Officer about the visiting of
A.1 and A.2 to the house of Malcolm Taylor at Pushpa Nilayam to
handover the bribe amount. The Investigating Officer, after
receiving the said information, laid a trap by implanting audio and
video recorders at the house of Mr. Malcolm Taylor and kept a
watch. On the same day at about 4.00 PM, A.1 and A.2 came to 
Plot No.204, Pushpa Nilayam along with cash bag containing 
Rs.50.00 lakhs. A.1 and A.2 negotiated with the de facto
complainant and offered Rs.5.00 crores as bribe for casting his
vote in favour of TDP Candidate in MLC elections to be held on
01.6.2015. On the directions of A.1, Rudra Udaya Simha (A.3)
opened the cash bag and kept the currency bundles on the T-Poy 
as advance bribe amount. In the meanwhile, the Investigating
Officer came to the spot and seized the cash and cell phones and
prepared panchanama. On 31.5.2015, the Investigating Officer
registered a case in Crime No.11/ACB-CR-1-HYD/2015 against 
A.1, A.2, A.3 and A.4 and subsequently one Sandra Venkata 
Veeraiah, MLA was arraigned as A.5. During the course of
investigation, the Investigating Officer recorded the statements of
the witnesses under Section 161 Cr.P.C. 14. It is further alleged that in spite of scientific investigation
done up to a certain point by the Investigating Agency in
unearthing such a gruesome offence of bribery and unfortunately it
was busted due to the involvement of the petitioner. 15. It is clearly evident that the petitioner being a party to the
criminal conspiracy hatched up a plan along with A.1, A.2 and
others, and abetted the de facto complainant to vote in favour of
their party candidate in the MLC elections to be held on 01.6.2015.
In reward of the same, the petitioner offered Rs.5.00 crores as
bribe and paid Rs.50.00 lakhs towards advance. In furtherance of
the conspiracy, A.1, A2 and others have conspired with each other
and committed the offence. It is further alleged that the de facto
complainant being the MLA is a public servant and his casting of
vote as per free will in the biennial elections for the Legislative
Council is a public duty required to be performed by him, whereas
A.1, A2 and others, in pursuance of the criminal conspiracy,
offering of bribe to influence him by corrupt means to vote against
his free will, is an offence under Section 12 of the PC Act. The oral
and documentary evidence proves the meeting of minds and 
collusion between the A.1, A2 and others. Therefore, the petitioner
is liable for punishment for the offences under Section 12 of the PC
Act and Section 120-B of IPC. 16. The preliminary charge sheet was filed on 27.7.2015 and the
Investigating Officer, in the Memo filed before the Special Court on
31.8.2016, has clearly stated that the investigation is still
continuing. The Investigation Agency failed to conduct the basic
investigation with regard to the involvement of the petitioner. The
silence on the part of the Investigating Agency made the second
respondent to step into the shoes of the Investigating Agency,
which abandoned its statutory duty and purposefully failed to
conduct basic investigation, nab and bring the prime offender
before the Court of law. This respondent sent the disputed
telephonic conversation between the petitioner and the informant
and the admitted voice of the petitioner to the Forensic Laboratory
by name Helic Advisory, Bombay for comparison and report. As 
per the report of the Laboratory, the disputed conversation
matches with the voice of the petitioner. 17. The present criminal petition is not maintainable in view of Section 19(3)(c) of the PC Act. When the learned Special Judge
forwarded the complaint to the ACB for investigation under Section
156(3) Cr.P.C., it is obvious that he has not taken cognizance of
the offence, and therefore, it is a pre-cognizance stage and cannot
be equated with post cognizance stage. The impugned order 
directing the ACB to investigate the cognizable offence and file
report is an interlocutory order, against which no revision lies in
view of the bar contained in Section 397(2) of Cr.P.C. Bar of
revision cannot be circumvented by filing a petition under Section
482 Cr.P.C. 18. The contention of the petitioner that this respondent has no
locus standi to file the complaint is not sustainable either on facts
or in law. In other words, the principle that any one can set the
criminal law in motion remains intact unless contra is indicated by
the statutory provision. This respondent had filed the complaint
praying the Special Court to invoke the power under Section 210
Cr.P.C., and even assuming but not conceding that the learned
Special Judge has no jurisdiction to invoke Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.,
a bear reading of the impugned order discloses that though it is
mentioned as under section 156(3) Cr.P.C., it should be treated as
a direction to the ACB to file a report on the contents of the
complaint under Section 202(1) Cr.P.C. 19. The contention of the petitioner that the order of the Special
Judge directing investigation and report under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., would result in anomalous situation as it would be a second
FIR being registered with respect to the same transaction after filing
a preliminary charge sheet, is unfounded and there could never be
a situation where a second FIR being registered with respect to the
same transaction as it was totally not taken into consideration and
that it is not a normal IPC case where the police should register
the FIR if a cognizable offence is brought to their notice and
investigate into the same. But here it is a case under the PC Act wherein on receipt of the complaint, without registering an FIR, a
discrete enquiry should be conducted as per Point 78 in page 31
contained in Chapter-7 in the ACB Manual, which is also
incorporated in Chapter-9 of the Vigilance Manual. 20. The complaint is filed under Sections 190 and 200 Cr.P.C.,
praying the Special Court to take cognizance against the petitioner
as there is a simultaneous investigation going on in respect of the
same offence and hence the contention of the petitioner that the
complaint is not maintainable for non-filing of the sworn affidavit
is not sustainable. It is submitted that as the allegations in the
complaint are grave against the petitioner, the learned Special
Judge thought it fit to refer it for investigation and report, and the
learned Special Judge has got three options for getting a report
from the Investigating Agency i.e., Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C, 210 Cr.P.C ., and 202 Cr.P.C ., and the intention is only to get a report
from the Investigating Agency. The allegations made in the
complaint attract the ingredients of Section 12 of the PC Act and Section 120-B of IPC; therefore, it is not a fit case to quash the
proceedings. 21. The petitioner, being the Chief Minister of the State of
Andhra Pradesh, by offering bribe through his stooges i.e., A.1, A.2
and others to another Legislative Member of Telangana State to
influence him to vote in favour of TDP candidate in the MLC
elections, is guilty of a high crime, misdemeanour and that
agreement to bring about such a state of things constitutes a
criminal conspiracy. Hence the petition may be dismissed.
Rival contention of the parties 22. Heard Sri Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel
representing Sri P.Subbarao, learned counsel for the petitioner,
Sri V.Ravi Kiran Rao, learned standing counsel for the first
respondentACB for the State of Telangana and Sri P.Sudhakar 
Reddy, learned counsel for the second respondent. 23. The learned counsel for the second respondent strenuously
submitted that the petition is not maintainable under law as the
impugned order passed by the learned Special Judge is an
interlocutory order, against which no revision lies, in view of legal
embargo under Section 19(3)(c) of the PC Act. When there is a
specific bar under the PC Act , filing of the petition under Section
482 Cr.P.C., is nothing but circumventing the provisions of the PC
Act , which is not permissible under law. He further submitted that Section 482 Cr.P.C., has no application to the PC Act . Per contra,
the learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that any
interlocutory order passed under the provisions of the PC Act can
be assailed by an aggrieved party by invoking Section 482 Cr.P.C.,
and the bar is for filing a revision or a stay petition only. Refuting
the contentions made by the learned counsel for the second
respondent, learned standing counsel for the first respondent
submitted that the petition is maintainable under Section 482
Cr.P.C. 24. In view of the complexity of the issues relating to facts and
law being involved, this court is inclined to resolve them under
separate headings. Whether the petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C., is
maintainable or not 25. When the very maintainability of petition itself is under
serious challenge, the Court has to address that issue at the
threshold, so as to get itself satisfied about the maintainability of
the petition, before adverting to the other aspects in detail. Whether the provisions of the PC Act excludes the
application of Section 482 Cr.P.C. 26. For better appreciation of the rival contentions, it is apposite
to extract hereunder Section 19(3)(c) of the PC Act, which reads as
follows: (a) (b) (c) no court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on
any other ground and no court shall exercise the powers of
revision in relation to any interlocutory order passed in any
inquiry, trial, appeal or other proceedings. 27. A perusal of clause (c) of Sub-section (3) of Section 19 of the
PC Act, at a glance, clearly demonstrates that no court shall stay or
revise any interlocutory order passed under the PC Act . The
provision does not create a legal embargo to challenge the
interlocutory orders by invoking extraordinary jurisdiction of High
Courts under Section 482 Cr.P.C. 28. It is a cardinal principle of law of interpretation that the
Court has to interpret the statutes in such a manner so as to
achieve the object for which a particular provision is inserted in the
statute. The primary test, which can safely be applied, is the
language used in the Act and therefore, when the words are clear
and plain, the Court must accept the expressed intention of the
legislature. The provisions of Cr.P.C ., should be construed so as to
advance cause of justice and legislative object sought to be
achieved. 29. In Harbhajan Singh v Press Council of India , the Honble
apex Court, at para No.9, held as follows: 30. In Vijay Kumar Mishra v High Court of Judicature at Patna ,
the Honble apex Court, at para 25, held as follows: 31. If the argument of the learned counsel for the second
respondent is accepted, without looking into the other relevant
legal aspects, an accused, who is facing trial under the provisions
of the PC Act , has no right whatsoever to challenge an interlocutory
order passed under the PC Act regardless of its illegality,
irregularity or impropriety, except filing of appeal against conviction
and sentence. Thus, Section 482 Cr.P.C., becomes redundant or a 
dead letter in the Statute ( Cr.P.C ) so far as the PC Act is concerned.
If that so, various High Courts might not have entertained the
petitions under Section 482 Cr.P.C., so far as the PC Act is
concerned. The Honble apex Court also entertained the SLPs filed
challenging the orders passed by various High Courts under
Section 482 Cr.P.C. Under the Old Cr.P.C., the High Court can
exercise inherent powers under Section 561-A Cr.P.C. 32. The Parliament enacted the PC Act in the year 1947. By that
time, Section 561-A Cr.P.C., was in force. In 1947 PC Act , there is
no specific provision excluding the application of Section 561-A
Cr.P.C. The PC Act was re-enacted in the year 1988, which came 
into force with effect from 09.9.1988, by which time Section 482 Cr.P.C., was in the Statute. If the intention of the Parliament is to
exclude the PC Act from the purview of Section 482 Cr.P.C., the
same would have been depicted in any of the provisions of the PC
Act like Section 19(3)(c) of PC Act. The Court has to strictly adhere
to the provisions of a statute in letter and spirit. 33. If any submission made by a learned counsel is contrary to
the provisions of a statute, the same has no force in the eye of law.
The Parliament in its wisdom incorporated Section 482 Cr.P.C.,
(Section 561-A of old Cr.P.C .,) conferring inherent jurisdiction on
Constitutional Courts with an avowed object to safeguard personal
liberty of an individual from frivolous and vexatious prosecution
launched by unscrupulous litigant with an ulterior motive. There
are instances where complaints are being filed with vague, bald and
frivolous allegations, despite they being prohibited by law, with an
ulterior motive to wreak vengeance against their opponents. In
such factual scenario, if such criminal proceedings are allowed to
continue, thereby forcing the accused to face rigour of trial,
certainly it would amount to miscarriage of justice and
infringement of personal liberty of an individual as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The Parliament taking note
of the then prevailing political and socio-economic scenario, as well
as visualising the future, incorporated Section 482 Cr.P.C., to
protect the citizens of this country from biting the bullet in the form
of malicious prosecution. There is no straight jacket formula under
which circumstances Section 482 Cr.P.C., can be pressed into 
service. The yardstick to press into Section 482 Cr.P.C., which is
applicable to other criminal cases launched under different
enactments, equally applies to the provisions of the PC Act . If the
proposition of law advanced by the learned counsel for the second
respondent is glibly swallowed, it amounts to depriving an accused
person from challenging the illegal or irregular interim orders
passed under the PC Act . Simply because a person is facing trial
under the PC Act , that itself will not take away the legitimate and
legal right of such an accused person to challenge interlocutory
order by knocking the doors of the Constitutional Courts invoking
the provisions of Section 482 Cr.P.C., in order to prevent abuse of
process of law or to secure the ends of justice. 34. Let me consider the case-law on which the learned counsel
for the second respondent has placed reliance, in the backdrop of
the foregoing discussion. 35. In Satyanarayana Sarma v State of Rajasthan the Honble
apex Court, at para No.17, held as follows: 36. The principle enunciated in the above case, in fact, negates
the contention of the second respondent that the present petition is
not maintainable under Section 482 Cr.P.C. In the same judgment
at para No.29, the Honble apex Court observed that several High
Courts are granting stay of proceedings under the PC Act overlooking Section 19(3)(c) of the Act. 37. In State of Uttar Pradesh v Pragyesh Misra , the Honble apex
Court reiterated the principle enunciated in Satyanarayana Sarma
and held that Section 19(3)(c) of PC Act contains a specific bar to
stay criminal proceedings. 38. In order to appreciate the contention of learned counsel for
the second respondent with regard to the maintainability of petition
under Section 482 Cr.P.C., against an interim order under the PC
Act , it is apposite to refer pars Nos.2 and 3 of the decision in
Pragyesh Misra, which read as follows: 39. In the above case, the Honble apex Court has not held that Section 482 Cr.P.C., has no application to the interlocutory orders
passed under the PC Act . 40. As per the principle enunciated in the cases cited supra, the
High Court shall not grant stay to hamper the progress of trial in
cases arising under the PC Act . 41. The learned counsel for the second respondent also laid
stress on paragraph Nos.29 to 32 of the judgment in Shahid Balwa
v Union of India . In the said paragraphs, the Honble apex Court
has dealt with the speedy trial in 2G Scam case. The Honble apex
Court made it clear that when it transfers cases from one High
Court to another High Court or to the Supreme Court, the affected
party cannot file an application under Section 482 Cr.P.C., or
under Article 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India before any
High Court for redressal. The observations made by Honble apex
Court are confined to 2G scam case only. The learned standing
counsel for the first respondent has also placed reliance on this
decision. 42. To substantiate the arguments, the learned senior counsel
for the petitioner has drawn the attention of this Court to the
following decisions: The enumeration made by the noble Lord as to the category 
of cases in which the police would have no authority to
undertake an investigation is of course not exhaustive.
Likewise it would be neither necessary nor possible to make
an enumeration of all those cases in which this Court could
under S.561-A exercise its inherent power with respect to
an investigation commenced by the police. That power is
always exercisable where there is a misuse of power by the
police or there is the commencement of an investigation
without the requisite authority and the Court considers it
necessary to exercise its inherent power to secure the ends
of justice. (ii) In S.N.Sharma v Bipen K. Tiwari , the Honble apex Court, at
para No.11, held as follows: (emphasis supplied) (iii) In Imtiyaz Ahmad v State of U.P. , the Honble apex Court, at
Para No.55, held as under: 43. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and
also the principle enunciated in the cases cited supra, I am unable
to accede to the contention of the learned counsel for the second
respondent that Section 482 Cr.P.C., has no application to the PC
Act . There is no legal embargo to challenge the interlocutory orders
passed under the provisions of the PC Act by filing petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. The contention of learned counsel for the
second respondent that the present petition is liable to be
dismissed at the threshold is not sustainable either on facts on in
law. Therefore, I am of the considered view that the petition is
maintainable under Section 482 Cr.P.C. Whether an order passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is
a judicial order or an administrative order 44. The learned counsel for the second respondent strenuously
submitted that the order passed by the learned Special Judge
under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is purely an administrative order, but
not a judicial order and hence, the same cannot be challenged
either under Section 397 Cr.P.C., or under Section 482 Cr.P.C. Per
contra, the learned senior counsel for the petitioner and learned
standing counsel for the first respondent vehemently opposed the
proposition of law submitted by the learned counsel for the second
respondent and submitted that an order passed under Section 
156(3) Cr.P.C., is a judicial order. 45. To substantiate the argument, the learned counsel for the
second respondent has placed reliance on the following decisions: (ii) In Prof. Ram Naresh Chaudhry v State of U.P. the
Allahabad High Court held as under: 46. The above two decisions were rendered by learned Single
Judges of Allahabad High Court. In Ajay Malviya v. State of U.P. a Division Bench of Allahabad High Court held that an order
under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is a judicial order. Incidentally, this
point was also urged before the Full Bench of Allahabad High
Court in Father Thomas v. State of U.P . The Full Bench made
the following observation in para 54. 54. As on the basis of the aforesaid reasoning, we
have already held the order under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C.,
not be amenable to challenge in a criminal revision or an
application under Section 482 Cr.P.C., it is not necessary
for this Court to go into the further question whether the
said order is administrative in nature as urged by Sri
G.S.Chaturvedi and the learned Government Advocate or 
judicial in nature as contended by Sri D.S.Mishra and Sri
Dileep Gupta. Following the decision of the Honble apex
Court in Asit Bhattacharjee v Hanuman Prasad Ojha , (2007)
5 SCC 786, we are also not inclined to express any opinion
on this issue, and leave the question open for decision in a
subsequent proceeding where an answer to this question 
may become necessary. 47. When there is a conflict of opinion expressed by a learned
Single Judge and a Division Bench, the opinion expressed by the
Division Bench will prevail, in view of the judicial propriety.
Therefore, I am agreeing with the view expressed by the Division
Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Ajay Malviya that the order
passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is a judicial order. 48. To substantiate their arguments, learned senior counsel for
the petitioner aand learned standing counsel for the first
respondent have placed reliance on the decision in Shankarlal
Aggarwala v Shankarlal Poddar , wherein the Honble apex Court,
at para 13, held as under: 49. The learned standing counsel for the first respondent also
placed reliance on the decision in Victoria Memorial Hall v. Howrah
Ganatantrik Nagrik Samity , wherein the Honble apex Court, at
para No.40, held as follows: 50. These two decisions eloquently dealt with the distinction
between an administrative order and a judicial order. Whether an
order is a judicial order or administrative order depends on the
following two conditions: (i) whether any discretionary power is left
over to the Magistrate and if so, exercising of such discretionary
power should be based on sound principles of law; and (ii) the
order passed by the Magistrate directly or indirectly or by
necessary implication affects the rights of the parties to the
proceedings. If the order passed by the Magistrate satisfies the
above two conditions, it is a judicial order. If not, it is only an
administrative order. In other words, passing of a judicial order
mandates application of mind by the Court as the same eventually
affects the rights and personal liberty of an individual. An
administrative order is one which regulates the proceedings of the
Court without affecting the rights of the parties to the proceedings.
For example: (i) issuance of summons, (ii) payment of batta, etc.
The test to be applied is whether the impugned order passed by
the learned Special Judge affects the rights and liabilities of the
petitioner or not. If the answer is affirmative, it falls within the
ambit of judicial order and if the answer is negative, it falls
within the ambit of administrative order. 51. Let me consider whether the impugned order passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is an administrative order or a judicial
order. In order to appreciate the rival contentions, it is imperative
to consider certain provision of the Cr.P.C . Sections 190 and 200 Cr.P.C., deal with filing of a private complaint. Section 190 Cr.P.C., postulates four modes of taking cognizance of offence by
the Magistrate having jurisdiction: (1) Upon a complaint; (2) Upon
a police report; (3) Upon information received from any person, or
(4) Upon his own knowledge. 52. Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., contemplates that the Magistrate
having jurisdiction to take cognizance of offence basing on a
complaint is empowered to forward the same to the concerned 
police for investigation and report. On filing of the complaint
under Section 190 and 200 Cr.P.C., the competent Court can take 
the cognizance of offence and proceed further under Sections 202 , 203 and 204 Cr.P.C., or can forward the complaint to the
concerned Police for investigation and report. These two provisions
(Section 190 and Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.,) explicitly confer
discretion to the learned Special Judge. Such discretion has to be
exercised by applying judicial mind. 53. The Honble apex Court in Priyanka Srivastava v State of
U.P , Anil Kumar v M.K. Aiyappa and Ramdev Food Products 
Private Limited v State of Gujarat held that while forwarding the
complaint under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C, the learned Magistrate has
to apply his mind to the facts of the complaint. In the two
decisions viz., Siya Ram Agrahari and Prof. Ram Naresh Chaudhry 
rendered by Single Judges of Allahabad High Court, and relied
upon by the learned counsel for the second respondent, it was
held that the order passed under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C., is
judicial order but administrative in nature. Even according to
those two decisions also, the order under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is
not purely an administrative order as contended by the learned
counsel for the second respondent. 54. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case
and also the principle enunciated in the cases cited supra, I am
unable to agree with the submission of the learned counsel for the
second respondent on this aspect. In view of the legal
consequences flow from the order passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., by any stretch of imagination, it cannot be an
administrative order but, it is a judicial order. Whether the order passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.,
is not amenable to Section 482 Cr.P.C., in view of the bar to
file a revision under Section 397(2) Cr.P.C. 55. The predominant contention of the learned counsel for the
second respondent is that the impugned order is interlocutory in
nature; therefore, no revision lies in view of Sub-section (2) of
Section 397 Cr.P.C. In such circumstances, filing of the petition
under Section 482 Cr.P.C., is nothing but circumventing the
provision under Section 397(2) Cr.P.C. Per contra, learned senior
counsel for the petitioner and learned standing counsel for the
first respondent submitted that an interlocutory order can be
challenged under Section 482 Cr.P.C., despite the bar contained in
Sub-section (2) of Section 397 Cr.P.C. 56. To substantiate the argument, learned counsel for the
second respondent has drawn the attention of this Court to the
decisions rendered by the Single Judges of Allahabad High Court
in Siya Ram Agrahari, Gulam Mustafa @ Jabbar v State of U.P. ,
Harpal Singh v State of U.P. , and Prof. Ram Naresh Chaudhry. As
per the principle enunciated in these cases: (i) no revision lies
against the orders passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., at the
instance of the prospective accused, in view of the legal embargo
in Sub-section (2) of Section 397 Cr.P.C., and (ii) in view of the bar
contained in Sub-section (2) of Section 397 Cr.P.C., the order
passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., cannot be challenged under
Section 482 Cr.P.C. 57. In Father Thomas, a Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court
formulated the following three questions for consideration: 58. The view expressed, in the above decisions, is either revision
or quash petition is not maintainable against an order passed
under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. Confuting the submissions of the
learned counsel for the second respondent, learned senior counsel
for the petitioner has drawn the attention of this court in Priyanka
Srivastava, Anil Kumar and Ramdev Food Products Private 
Limited. As per the principle in the cases cited, an order passed
under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., can be assailed under Section 482
Cr.P.C. (i) In Madhu Limaye v The State of Maharashtra , the Honble
apex Court, at Para No.10, held as follows: (emphasis supplied)
As per the principle enunciated in the above case , an interlocutory
order can be challenged under Section 482 Cr.P.C., in spite of bar
to file revision. (ii) In Prabhu Chawla v State of Rajasthan a three Judge
Bench of the Honble apex Court while reaffirming the principle laid
down in Madhu Limaye, at Para No.6, held as follows: 59. The law declared or observations made by the Honble apex
Court are binding on the High Courts as well as Subordinate
Court, in view of Article 141 of the Constitution of India.
Therefore, the decisions of learned Single Judges and the Full
Bench of the Allahabad High Court have no legal force. 60. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case
and also the principle enunciated in the cases cited supra, the
contention of the learned counsel for the second respondent that
the order passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is not amenable to Section 482 Cr.P.C., in view of the bar to file a revision under Section 397(2) Cr.P.C., holds no water. Whether the learned Special Judge has wrongly quoted Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., in the impugned order 61. The learned counsel for the second respondent strenuously
submitted that the learned Special Judge passed the impugned 
order for limited purpose of calling for preliminary report;
therefore, it can be treated as an order passed under Section
202(1) Cr.P.C., instead of an order passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. He further submitted mere quoting of wrong provision by
itself will not change the nature of the order. To substantiate the
stand, he has drawn the attention of this Court to the judgment
passed by a Division Bench of this Court in W.A.No.239 of 2016
dated 22.03.2016. The Division Bench, while following the
judgments of the Honble apex Court, in H.L.Mehra v Union of
India , Municipal Corporation of City of Ahmedabad v Ben
Hiraben Manilal and Kedar Shashikant Deshpande v Bhor 
Municipal Council . In the last decision, at para No.12.4, it was
held as follows: 62. Per contra, learned senior counsel for the petitioner
submitted that the learned Special Judge consciously passed the
order under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., and not under any other
provision of the Cr.P.C . He further submitted that the question of
mere quoting of wrong provision of law does not arise in this case.
He has drawn the attention of this Court to the decision in Ramdev
Food Products Private Limited. On the other hand, learned
standing counsel for the first respondent submitted that the stand
taken by the second respondent is imaginary and contrary to the
provisions of the Cr.P.C. 63. At this juncture, the crucial question that falls for
consideration is whether the impugned order passed by the learned
Special Judge can be treated as an order passed under Section
202(1) Cr.P.C. In order to resolve the controversy, the court has to
consider the true legal concept of taking of cognizance. The phrase
taking of cognizance of offence is not defined under the provisions
of Cr.P.C . In legal or common parlance, taking cognizance of
offence by the Magistrate means application of his judicial mind to
the facts of the case. To put it in another way, whether the
allegations made in the complaint prima facie constitute the offence
alleged or not is the sole criterion for taking cognizance of offence.
If the allegations made in the complaint are ex facie taken to be
true and correct, no prima facie case is made out, then the
Magistrate can decline to take cognizance of offence. If the
Magistrate feels that if the allegations made in the complaint prima
facie disclose a cognizable offence, then he can take cognizance of
such offence. Therefore, taking cognizance of offence is nothing but
application of judicial mind to the facts of the case. Otherwise, the
Parliament might not have deployed the words, of facts which
constitute such offence in Clause (a) of Sub-Section (1) of
Section 190 Cr.P.C. 64. It is a settled principle of law that the Magistrate has no
power whatsoever to conduct an enquiry or direct investigation by
the Police under Section 202(1) Cr.P.C., prior to taking cognizance
of offence under clause (a) of Sub-section (1) of Section 190 Cr.P.C.
There has been no gain-saying that the learned Special Judge has
not taken cognizance of offence against the petitioner by exercising
jurisdiction under Section 190(1)(a) Cr.P.C., on the complaint filed
by the second respondent. 65. Chapter XII Cr.P.C ., deals with information to the police and
their power to investigate. Section 156 Cr.P.C., falls under Chapter
XII of the Code. Section 190 Cr.P.C., forms integral part of Chapter
XIV, which deals with the conditions requisite for initiation of
proceedings. Chapter XV deals with complaint to Magistrate which
encompasses in it Sections 200 to 203 Cr.P.C. Chapter XVI deals
with commencement of proceedings before the Magistrate. Section 
210 Cr.P.C., falls under Chapter XVI. Section 156 (3) , 190 and 202 Cr.P.C., are placed suitably under different Chapters of Cr.P.C .,
with a particular object i.e., to avoid overlapping and confusion. 66. Section 156(3) and Section 202(1) Cr.P.C operate in two
different spheres. Sections 156(3) and 202(1) Cr.P.C., will not go
together. An order passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., cannot be
equated with an order passed under Section 202(1) Cr.P.C., or vice
versa. The Magistrate can exercise the jurisdiction under Section
156(3) Cr.P.C., before taking cognizance of offence. The Magistrate
can direct the police to investigate into the matter under Section
202(1) Cr.P.C., after taking cognizance of offence. Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., can be pressed into service at the pre-cognizance stage,
whereas Section 202 (1) Cr.P.C., comes into operation at post
cognizance stage. 67. Chapter XII deals with statutory powers of the Investigating
Agency right from registration of the FIR till filing of final report
under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. Section 190 Cr.P.C., contained in
Chapter XIV deals with taking of cognizance. A perusal of Section
2(d) Cr.P.C., clearly demonstrates that complaint does not include
police report. Section 2(r) Cr.P.C., defines police report. 68. On receipt of a complaint under Sections 190 and 200 Cr.P.C., the Magistrate has two avenues to follow(1) He can take
cognizance of offence under Section 190 Cr.P.C., and proceed
further under Sections 200 to 204 Cr.P.C., (2) If the Magistrate is
not inclined to take cognizance of offence, he can forward the
complaint to the concerned police under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C., for
investigation and report. The learned Magistrate can choose any
one of the two options available to him basing on the facts and
circumstances of each case. The complainant has no right
whatsoever to compel the Magistrate to follow the option of his
(complainants) choice. A fascicular reading of Sections 190 and 156(3) Cr.P.C., clearly spell out that the Magistrate, who is
competent to take cognizance of offence, can forward the complaint
to the police for investigation and report. 69. In A.R. Antulay v Ramdas Sriniwas Nayak , at Para 31, the
Honble apex Court held as under: As per the principle enunciated in the above decision , on receipt of
the complaint, the court has judicial discretion either to enquire
into the case or direct for investigation. In the case on hand, after
perusing the complaint and other relevant documents, the learned
Special Judge, by arriving at the conclusion that it is conducive to
justice, forwarded the complaint to the ACB under section 156(3) Cr.P.C., for investigation and report. 70. The Honble apex Court considered the scope of Section
190(1)(a), Section 156(3) and Section 200 of Cr.P.C in Devarapalli
Lakshminarayana Reddy vs. V.Narayana Reddy , and at Para 
No.17 held as under: 71. Recently, the Honble apex Court reiterated and reaffirmed
the above principle in Ramdev Food Products Private Limited.
Viewed from any dimension, the impugned order cannot be treated 
as an order passed under Section 202(1) Cr.P.C., as the learned
Special Judge has not taken the cognizance of offence basing on
the complaint of the second respondent. There is no other
provision under Cr.P.C ., enabling the learned Special Judge to call
for the report from the ACB, except under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C.
If the learned Special Judge had taken cognizance of offence and
ordered investigation by mentioning the provision of law as Section
156 (3) Cr.P.C., certainly the submission made by the learned
counsel for the second respondent has some legal force. 72. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case,
I am of the considered view that the learned Special Judge, while
passing the impugned order, quoted Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.,
knowing fully well that he has no power to direct investigation
under Section 202(1) Cr.P.C., in view of non-taking of cognizance
of offence under Clause (a) of Sub-section (1) of Section 190 Cr.P.C., basing on the complaint. In view of the facts and
circumstance of the case, it cannot be presumed that the learned
Special Judge quoted wrong provision of law. Viewed from any
angle, either on facts or in law, the contention of the learned
counsel for the second respondent has no legs to stand. Whether the learned Special Judge had passed the 
order without application of mind 73. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner as well as the
learned standing counsel for the first respondent have strenuously
submitted that the learned Special Judge exercised jurisdiction
under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C., without applying his mind; therefore,
the impugned order is not sustainable. They further submitted that
if the order of the learned Special Judge is allowed to stand,
certainly, it would amount to miscarriage of justice. 74. The learned counsel for the second respondent strenuously
submitted that the words non application of mind is not defined in Cr.P.C ; therefore, question of application of mind does not arise at
all and that word has no legal sanctity. He further submitted that
the learned Special Judge perused the material on record and
forwarded the complaint to the ACB under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.,
and hence the impugned order is in consonance with the settled
principles of law. 75. For appreciation of rival contentions, it is apposite to quote
Sub-section (3) of Section 156 Cr.P.C. 156. Police officers power to investigate cognizable
case (1) (2) (3) Any Magistrate empowered under section 190 may 
order such investigation as above mentioned. Section 190 (1) (a) Cr.P.C., reads as follows: 76. A fascicular reading of clause (a) of Sub-section (1) of
Section 190 and Sub-section (3) of Section 156 Cr.P.C., clearly
demonstrates that the Magistrate, having jurisdiction to take
cognizance of offence, can forward the complaint to the concerned
Police for investigation and report. 77. To buttress the argument, learned senior counsel for the
petitioner has drawn the attention of this court to the following
decisions: (3) Any Magistrate empowered Under Section 190 may 
order such an investigation as above-mentioned. 27. Regard being had to the aforesaid enunciation of
law, it needs to be reiterated that the learned Magistrate
has to remain vigilant with regard to the allegations made
and the nature of allegations and not to issue directions
without proper application of mind. He has also to bear in
mind that sending the matter would be conducive to justice
and then he may pass the requisite order. The present is a
case where the accused persons are serving in high
positions in the bank. We are absolutely conscious that the
position does not matter, for nobody is above law. But, the
learned Magistrate should take note of the allegations in
entirety, the date of incident and whether any cognizable
case is remotely made out. It is also to be noted that when a
borrower of the financial institution covered under the
SARFAESI Act, invokes the jurisdiction Under
Section 156(3) Code of Criminal Procedure and also there is
a separate procedure under the Recovery of Debts due to
Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993, an attitude of
more care, caution and circumspection has to be adhered 
to. 34. In view of the aforesaid analysis, we allow the
appeal, set aside the order passed by the High Court and
quash the registration of the FIR in case Crime No.298 of
2011, registered with Police Station, Bhelupur, District
Varanasi, U.P. (iii) In Guruduth Prabhu & Ors. v. M.S. Krishna Bhat and Ors. ,
the Honble apex Court, at Para No.10, held as under: As per the principle enunciated in the cases cited supra, an order
passed by the Magistrate under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., without
application mind, is not sustainable. The learned standing
counsel for the first respondent also placed reliance on the
proposition laid down in Priyanka Srivastava. (iv) In Anil Kumar, the Honble apex Court, at paras 3 and 11,
held as follows: That does not mean that the learned Special Judge can pass a
cryptic and slipshod order, without application of mind. Suffice it
to say that the application of mind shall be depicted in the order
passed. The objective satisfaction of the Magistrate is sine qua non
to forward the complaint under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. If the
learned Special Judge has applied his mind to the facts of the
mind, then this Court has no right whatsoever to interfere with the
impugned order. If not, this Court can quash the proceedings by
exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C., in view of the
principle enunciated in cases cited supra. 80. In order to appreciate the contention of the learned senior
counsel for the petitioner it is apposite to extract the impugned
order hereunder: 81. There is no mention in the impugned order that the
allegations made in the complaint prima facie constitute the
offences punishable under Section 12 of PC Act and Section 120-B of IPC which requires a thorough investigation and report. Mere
using of words "Heard the learned counsel for the
petitioner/complainant. Perused the entire record filed by the
petitioner/complainant does not denote or connote application of
mind. Application of mind is some thing more than the perusal of
the record. In Anil Kumar, which also arises under PC Act , the
Court has forwarded the complaint under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C.
The prospective accused challenged the order of the learned Special
Judge by way of filing a Writ Petition before Karnataka High Court
for quashing of the same. The Karnataka High Court quashed the
orders of the Special Court. The complainant preferred SLP before
the Honble apex Court and the same was dismissed. The facts of
the case on hand are almost identical to the facts of the case. 82. A perusal of the impugned order clearly manifests that the
learned Special Judge has not applied his mind to the allegations
made in the complaint and passed the order under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C., in a laconic manner. 83. The other contention of the learned senior counsel for the
petitioner is that the second respondent did not file affidavit along
with the complaint; therefore, the learned Special Judge ought not
to have entertained the complaint. The learned counsel for the
second respondent submitted that the second respondent filed the
complaint seeking relief under Section 210 Cr.P.C., hence there is
no necessity to file affidavit. To substantiate the argument learned
senior counsel for the petitioner has drawn the attention of this
court to the decision in Priyanka Srivastava, wherein at paras 30
and 35, it was held as follows: That apart, in an appropriate case, the learned Magistrate
would be well advised to verify the truth and also can verify
the veracity of the allegations. This affidavit can make the
applicant more responsible. We are compelled to say so as
such kind of applications are being filed in a routine
manner without taking any responsibility whatsoever only
to harass certain persons. That apart, it becomes more
disturbing and alarming when one tries to pick up people
who are passing orders under a statutory provision which
can be challenged under the framework of the said Act or
under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. But it cannot
be done to take undue advantage in a criminal court as if
somebody is determined to settle the scores. 35. A copy of the order passed by us be sent to the
learned Chief Justices of all the High Courts by the Registry
of this Court so that the High Courts would circulate the
same amongst the learned Sessions Judges who, in turn, 
shall circulate it among the learned Magistrates so that they
can remain more vigilant and diligent while exercising the
power under Section 156(3) CrPC. 84. As per the principle enunciated in the case cited supra, filing
of affidavit along with private complaint is mandatory in order to
forward the same to the concerned Police under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C., for investigation and report. In para 35, the Honble apex
Court directed all the High Courts to circulate copy of the judgment
among the learned Magistrates. This court also circulated the copy
of the judgment in Priyanka Srivastava to all the Magistrates in the
State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh. For one
reason or the other, the learned Special Judge has not considered
filing of the affidavit in support of the complaint, before passing the
impugned order under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C. This aspect also
goes to prove, non application of the mind by the learned Special
Judge. 85. In view of the foregoing discussion, I have no hesitation to
hold that learned Special Judge passed the impugned order
without application of mind, therefore the same is liable to be
quashed by exercising inherent jurisdiction under Section 482
Cr.P.C. Whether the registration of second FIR is permissible
basing on same set of facts 86. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner strenuously
submitted that if the impugned order is allowed to stand, the ACB
has to register second FIR, basing on the same set of facts, which
is not permissible under law; therefore, the impugned order is
liable to be set aside. The learned standing counsel for the first
respondent concurred with the submission of the learned senior
counsel for the petitioner, on this aspect. Refuting the above
submissions, leaned counsel for the second respondent submitted 
that in pursuance of the impugned order, the ACB can conduct
discrete enquiry and file preliminary report, without registering the
FIR much less the second FIR in the same crime. He further
submitted that the learned Special Judge only called for the report
of the ACB and therefore, the impugned order is legally
sustainable. 87. The crucial question that falls for consideration is whether
the ACB can conduct discrete enquiry and file preliminary report
in this case without registering the FIR. Before considering the
case law, it is imperative to mention few relevant facts. The ACB
registered the Crime, basing on the complaint lodged by the de
facto complainant. The second respondent filed complaint against
the petitioner before the Special Court on 08.8.2016. The learned
Special Judge passed the impugned order on 29.8.2016. On 
31.8.2016, the ACB filed a Memo before the Special Court stating
that the allegations in the complaint case and the Crime are one
and the same. It is not the case of the second respondent that the
allegations made in Crime No.11/ACB-CR 1-HYD/2015 and the 
complaint are not one and the same. The learned Special Judge
has taken cognizance of offence against A.1 to A.3 and numbered 
the charge sheet as C.C.No.15 of 2016 on 29.8.2016. On the same 
day, i.e., 29.8.2016, the learned Special Judge had passed the
impugned order. By the time of passing of the impugned order, the
learned Special Judge is very much aware that basing on the same
set of facts, the ACB registered the Crime, investigated into and
filed the charge sheet. 88. The second respondent has taken a specific plea, in
paragraph No.33 of the counter, that ACB is entitled to conduct
enquiry without registration of second FIR in view of point No.78 of
Chapter-7 of ACB Manual. Of course, the second respondent has 
not produced copy of the Manual. The learned senior counsel for
the petitioner submitted that even if there is a Manual, the same
has no statutory enforcement. He further submitted that if there is
a conflict between the provisions of Cr.P.C ., and the Manual of the
concerned department, the provisions of Cr.P.C ., will prevail. 89. To substantiate the argument, learned senior counsel for the
petitioner also placed reliance on paragraph No.89 of the decision
in Lalita Kumari v Government of Uttar Pradesh , which reads as
follows: As per the principle enunciated in the case cited supra, the ACB
Manual is meant for internal administrative guidance without any
statutory force. The ACB has to follow the provision of the Cr.P.C .,
in letter and spirit regardless of their Manual. 90. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and
the principle enunciated in the case cited supra, I am of the
considered view that the ACB Manual will not prevail over the
provisions of the Cr.P.C. 91. The second limb of the argument of learned counsel for the
second respondent is that the Investigating Agency can conduct
discrete enquiry and file preliminary report, without registering the
second FIR. The word discrete enquiry does not find place in
ChapterXII of Cr.P.C ., which envisages investigation and filing of
report. It is a settled principle of law that the Investigating Officer
has to investigate the case within the four corners of Chapte-XII of Cr.P.C . In the absence of a specific provision in the Cr.P.C ., the
Investigating Officer has no right whatsoever to conduct discrete
enquiry and file preliminary report. Section 154 Cr.P.C., mandates
registration of FIR immediately after receipt of the information
about the commission of a cognizable offence. Therefore, I am
unable to accede to the contention of the learned counsel for the
second respondent that the Investigating Agency has power to
conduct discrete enquiry without registration of FIR. 92. To substantiate the argument, learned counsel for the
second respondent has drawn the attention of this court to the
decision in Lalita Kumari. Para 120.1, 120.5 and 120.6 read as
follows: 93. The learned counsel for the second respondent has mainly
placed reliance on para 120.6, wherein the Honble apex Court
observed that a preliminary enquiry is to be conducted in certain
type of cases. In para 120.5, the Honble apex Court made an
observation that preliminary enquiry is only to ascertain whether
information reveals any cognizable offence. In para 120.1, the
Honble apex Court made an observation that registration of FIR is
mandatory in view of Section 154 Cr.P.C. The principle enunciated
in Lalita Kumari also did not support the contention of the learned
counsel for the second respondent. 94. To substantiate the argument, learned senior counsel for the
petitioner has drawn the attention of this court to the following
decisions: (ii) In Amitbhai Anil Chandra Shah v CBI , relevant portions in
paras 38 and 60 read as follows: 60. In view of the above discussion and conclusion, the
second FIR dated 29-4-2011 being RC No.3(S)/ 
2011/Mumbai filed by CBI is contrary to the directions
issued in judgment and order dated 8-4-2011 by this Court
in Narmada Bai v. State of Gujarat , (2011) 5 SCC 79 and
accordingly the same is quashed. (iii) In Dilawar Singh v. State of Delhi , the Hobble apex Court,
at para 11, held as follows: (iv) In Mohd. Yousuf v Afaq Jahan , the Honble apex Court, at
para 11, held as under: Whether the second respondent can seek the relief
under Section 210 Cr.P.C., in view of peculiar facts and
circumstances of the case 96. The predominant contention of learned counsel for the
second respondent is that the second respondent filed the
complaint seeking relief under Section 210 Cr.P.C., and therefore,
the learned Special Judge ought to have followed the procedure as
contemplated under Section 210 Cr.P.C. The learned senior
counsel for the petitioner strenuously submitted that the relief
sought by the second respondent is misconceived. He further
submitted that the very purpose of Section 210 Cr.P.C., is to
protect the interest of the accused and not of the complainant. He
also submitted that in view of the relief sought by the second
respondent, the complaint itself is not maintainable. The learned
standing counsel for the first respondent submitted that ultimately
the learned Special Judge has to take a decision either to resort to
Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., or to Section 210 Cr.P.C. 97. In support of the contention, learned senior counsel for the
petitioner has placed reliance on the following decisions: 78. The Joint Committee of Parliament observed: 79. It is thus clear that before Section 210 can be
invoked, the following conditions must be satisfied. (i) there must be a complaint pending for inquiry or trial; (ii) investigation by the police must be in progress in
relation to the same offence; (iii) a report must have been made by the police officer
under Section 173; and (iv) the Magistrate must have taken cognizance of an
offence against a person who is accused in the complaint
case. (emphasis supplied) (ii) In Dilawar Singh, the Honble apex Court, at paragraph
No.13, held as follows: (iii) In Geevarghese Yohannan v Philipose the Kerala High
Court, at para 11, held as follows: The decision in Namathoti Sankaramma v State of A.P. also 
deals with the scope of Section 210 Cr.P.C. 98. The learned counsel for the second respondent, in support of
the contention, has placed reliance on para 14 of the decision in
Dilawar Singh, which reads as follows: 99. In Hanumanth v State of Karnataka , the High Court of
Karnataka, at para 4, held as follows: 100. The ratio laid down in Narmada Prasad Sonkar v Sardar
Avtar Singh Chabara is that the High Court is not justified in
quashing the complaint itself for non-following of the procedure
simply because the Magistrate issued the process (under Section
202 Cr.P.C.,) without following the procedure and without
application of mind. 101. As per the principle enunciated in the cases cited supra, the
underlying object of Section 210 Cr.P.C., is three fold: (1) to
prevent the complainant to interfere with the investigation, (2) to
safeguard the interest of the accused, (3) to conduct joint trial
basing on the complaint case and police report. Now, it should be
considered whether the facts of the case on hand are fit in the
conditions enumerated in the cases cited supra. 102. On 28.5.2015, the de facto complainant submitted a
complaint to the Director General of Police, ACB and the same was
forwarded to the Deputy Superintendent of Police, ACB, Range-I,
Hyderabad to take necessary action. The ACB registered the FIR
on 31.5.2015 in Crime No.11/ACB-CR-1-HYD/2015 against A1 to 
A4 and subsequently A5 was added. On 28.7.2015, the ACB laid 
the charge sheet before the Special Court against A1 to A4. In the
charge sheet, it is categorically stated that the investigation is in
progress so far as A5 is concerned. As per the prosecution version,
the investigation is still pending for the reasons mentioned in the
charge sheet. On 29.8.2016, learned Special Judge has taken
cognizance of offences under Section 12 of the PC Act and Section
120-B IPC against A1 to A3 basing on the police report. 103. Admittedly, the petitioner is not an accused in the Crime.
A.1 to A.3 and A5 in the Crime are not parties to the complaint.
The learned Special Judge has not examined the complainant and 
witnesses on his behalf as postulated under Section 200 Cr.P.C.
The learned Special Judge has not taken the cognizance of offence
under clause (a) of Sub-section (1) of Section 190 Cr.P.C. It is not
the case of the second respondent that the learned Special Judge,
while conducting enquiry under Section 202 Cr.P.C., came to know 
about the pendency of investigation in the Crime. Even assuming,
but not conceding, that the learned Special Judge has taken
cognizance of offence basing on the complaint, the conditions
stipulated in Sub-section (2) of Section 210 Cr.P.C., are not
fulfilled in this case. The learned Special Judge has no power
whatsoever to proceed under Section 210 Cr.P.C., without staying
the proceedings in the complaint. Section 210(3) Cr.P.C., applies
in two situations: (1) where the police report does not relate to any
accused in the complaint case; or (2) if the Magistrate does not
take cognizance of offence on the police report at all. Even the
conditions enumerated in Sub-section (3) of Section 210 Cr.P.C.,
are also not satisfied in this case. 104. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case
and the principle enunciated in the cases cited supra, I am of the
considered view that the second respondent, as a matter of right, is
not entitled to seek the relief under Section 210 Cr.P.C., for the
following reasons: c) Advancing the argument that though the order was passed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., the same can be construed as a direction
to conduct discrete enquiry and file a preliminary report, itself
expressly indicates that the second respondent is very much
satisfied with the impugned order. d) Having accepted and welcomed the impugned order, the second 
respondent cannot now put the clock back and seek direction to
follow the procedure postulated under Section 210 Cr.P.C. e) The second respondent cannot blow hot and cold viz., supporting
the impugned order on one hand by way pleadings in paragraph 
Nos.22 Ground 1.a), 2.a), b), c), e), 23, 24, 32, 36, 37 and 43 of
the counter, and seeking the relief under Section 210 Cr.P.C., on
the other. f) The two reliefs sought by the second respondent in reason e) are
mutually self-destructive. Whether the second respondent is entitled to file complaint
by obtaining documents, by not adopting the procedure
established by law 105. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that
the second respondent has obtained the Court documents 
including Section 164 Cr.P.C., statements without following the
procedure. The learned counsel for the second respondent
submitted that obtaining of documents in illegal manner is not a
valid ground to quash the complaint. 106. It is needless to say that the statements recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C., shall be in the custody of the court.
Normally, Section 164 Cr.P.C., statements will not be furnished
even to the accused unless the court satisfies that the exigencies
so warrant. Even the accused is not entitled for the certified copies
of the FIR and Section 161 Cr.P.C., statements without following
the procedure contemplated under the Criminal Rules of Practice. 107. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner has drawn the
attention of this court to Rule 192, 204, 205, 206, 207, 211 and
212 of Criminal Rules of Practice. It is not the case of the second
respondent that he obtained documents from the Special Court by
following the procedure contemplated under Criminal Rules of
Practice. There is no explanation much less convincing explanation
forthcoming from the second respondent how, when and where he 
got the copies of documents filed along with the complaint. The
fact remains that the second respondent is not in a position to
convince the court that he obtained the documents by strictly
adhering the procedure contemplated under Criminal Rules of
Practice. 108. The learned counsel for second respondent submitted that
the Court has to take into consideration the substance of the
documents placed before it and not the mode and method of 
obtaining such documents. To substantiate the arguments, he has 
relied upon para 35 of the decision in Umesh Kumar v State of
A.P. , which reads as follows: 109. In view of the principle enunciated in the case cited supra, I
am of the considered view that production of the documents by
illegal methods by itself is a sole ground to dismiss the complaint. Whether the second respondent has locus standi to file
the complaint 110. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner strenuously
submitted that the second respondent has no locus standi to file
the complaint before the Special Court. He further submitted that
the second respondent filed the complaint with an ulterior motive
to take vengeance against the petitioner though he is neither a de
facto complainant, nor a victim, or having any semblance of
interest whatsoever in the matter. 111. The learned standing counsel for the first respondent
submitted that the second respondent made bald allegations
against the investigating agency without any basis. He further
submitted that the second respondent has no right whatsoever to
interfere with the investigation being conducted by the State ACB.
Per contra, the learned counsel for the second respondent
vehemently submitted that locus standi is alien to criminal
jurisprudence; therefore, any person who came to know about
commission of a cognizable offence can set law in motion. He
further submitted that the petitioner and the first respondent are
hand in glove and derailed the investigation basing on the single
window programme. 112. In support of the arguments, the learned senior counsel for
the petitioner has drawn the attention of this Court to the following
decisions: Therefore, under these circumstances, one should not lose
sight of the significant fact that in case this Court pronounces
its final opinion or conclusions on the issues other than the
general issues raised by the appellants as public interest
litigants, without hearing the really affected person/persons,
such opinion or conclusions may, in future, in case the
investigation culminates in filing a final report become
detrimental and prejudicial to the indicated accused persons
who would be totally deprived of challenging such opinion or
conclusions of this apex court, even if they happen to come in
possession of some valuable material to canvass the
correctness of such opinion or conclusions and consequently
their vested legal right to defend their case in their own way
would be completely nullified by the verdict now sought to be
obtained by these public interest litigants. 26. Even if there are million questions of law to be deeply
gone into and examined in a criminal case of this nature
registered against specified accused persons, it is for them and
them alone to raise all such questions and challenge the
proceedings initiated against them at the appropriate time
before the proper forum and not for third parties under the garb
of public interest litigants. 27. We, in the above background of the case, after
bestowing our anxious and painstaking consideration and
careful thought to all aspects of the case and deeply examining
the rival contentions of the parties both collectively and
individually give our conclusions as follows: (emphasis supplied) (ii) In Simranjit Singh Mann v Union of India , the Honble apex
Court, at Para No.7, held as follows: 219, para 24)
 But we must be careful to see that the member of the
public, who approaches the court in cases of this kind, is
acting bona fide and not for personal gain or private profit
or political motivation or other oblique consideration. The
court must not allow its process to be abused by politicians
and others . These observations were made while discussing the 
question of locus standi in public interest litigation. These
words of caution were uttered while expanding the scope of
the locus standi rule. These words should deter us from
entertaining this petition. This accords with the view
expressed by this Court in Krishna Swami v. Union of India {(1992) 4 SCC 605}. (iii) In Subramanian Swamy v. Raju , the Honble apex 
Court, at Para Nos.8 and 9, held as under: This view is echoed by the Australian Law Reforms
Commission. 25. In India also, the criminal law envisages the State as
a prosecutor. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure , the
machinery of the State is set in motion on information
received by the police or on a complaint filed by a private
person before a Magistrate. If the case proceeds to trial and
the accused is acquitted, the right to appeal against the
acquittal is closely circumscribed. Under the Code of
Criminal Procedure , 1898, the State was entitled to appeal
to the High Court, and the complainant could do so only if
granted special leave to appeal by the High Court. The right
of appeal was not given to other interested persons. Under
the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, the right of appeal
vested in the States has now been made subject to leave
being granted to the State by the High Court. The
complainant continues to be subject to the prerequisite
condition that he must obtain special leave to appeal. The
fetters so imposed on the right to appeal are prompted by
the reluctance to expose a person, who has been acquitted
by a competent court of a criminal charge, to the anxiety
and tension of a further examination of the case, even
though it is held by a superior court. The Law Commission
of India gave anxious thought to this matter, and while
noting that the Code recognised a few exceptions by way of
permitting a person aggrieved to initiate proceedings in
certain cases and permitting the complainant to appeal
against an acquittal with special leave of the High Court,
expressed itself against the general desirability to
encourage appeals against acquittal. It referred to the
common law jurisprudence obtaining in England and other 
countries where a limited right of appeal against acquittal
was vested in the State and where the emphasis rested on
the need to decide a point of law of general importance in
the interests of the general administration and proper
development of the criminal law. But simultaneously the
Law Commission also noted that if the right to appeal
against acquittal was retained and extended to a
complainant the law should logically cover also cases not
instituted on complaint. It observed: However, when the Criminal Procedure Code , 1973 
was enacted, the statute, as we have seen, confined the
right to appeal, in the case of private parties to a
complainant. This is, as it were, a material indication of the
policy of the law. The learned standing counsel for the first respondent has also
placed reliance on the decision in Amanullah. 113. In National Commission For Women v State of Delhi , the
Honble apex Court, at Para Nos.14 and 15, held as follows: 114. To substantiate the arguments, the learned standing counsel
for the first respondent relied on the ratio laid down in P.S.R.
Sadhanantham v Arunachalm , wherein the Honble apex Court, at 
Para No.26, held as under: 115. In Dattaraj Nathuji Thaware v State of Maharashtra , the
Honble apex Court, at para Nos.9 and 11, held as under: oriented or founded on personal vendetta. As indicated
above, court must be careful to see that a body of persons
or member of the public, who approaches the court is
acting bona fide and not for personal gain or private motive
or political motivation or other oblique considerations. The
court must not allow its process to be abused for oblique
considerations by masked phantoms who monitor at times 
from behind. Some persons with vested interest indulge in
the pastime of meddling with judicial process either by force
of habit or from improper motives, and try to bargain for a
good deal as well as to enrich themselves. Often they are
actuated by a desire to win notoriety or cheap popularity.
The petitions of such busybodies deserve to be thrown out
by rejection at the threshold, and in appropriate cases with
exemplary costs. 10. The Council for Public Interest Law set up by the Ford
Foundation in USA defined public interest litigation in its
Report of Public Interest Law, USA, 1976 as follows: jacket formula of locus standi unknown to criminal
jurisprudence, save and except specific statutory
exception (ii) In Subramanian Swamy v Manmohan Singh , the Honble 
apex Court, at para No.28, held as under: (iii) In Prakash Singh Badal v State of Punjab , the Honble apex
Court, at para Nos.64 and 67, held as under: Presently, on the recommendations of the Forty-first Report
of the Law Commission, sub-sections (2) and (3) have been
newly added but we are not concerned with those 
provisions as they are not relevant for the purpose of the
disposal of this case except for making some reference at
the appropriate places, if necessitated. Section 154(1)
regulates the manner of recording the first information
report relating to the commission of a cognizable offence. 67. It has to be noted that in Section 154(1) of the Code, the
legislature in its collective wisdom has carefully and
cautiously used the expression information without
qualifying the same as in Sections 41(1)(a) or (g) of the Code
wherein the expressions reasonable complaint and
credible information are used. Evidently, the non-
qualification of the word information in Section 154(1)
unlike in Sections 41(1)(a) and (g) of the Code may be for
the reason that the police officer should not refuse to record
an information relating to the commission of a cognizable
offence and to register a case thereon on the ground that he
is not satisfied with the reasonableness or credibility of the
information. In other words, reasonableness or
credibility of the said information is not a condition
precedent for registration of a case. A comparison of the
present Section 154 with those of the earlier Codes will
indicate that the legislature had purposely thought it fit to
employ only the word information without qualifying the
said word. Section 139 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of
1861 (Act 25 of 1861) passed by the Legislative Council of
India read that every complaint or information preferred
to an officer in charge of a police station should be reduced
into writing which provision was subsequently modified by
Section 112 of the Code of 1872 (Act 10 of 1872) which
thereafter read that every complaint preferred to an officer
in charge of a police station shall be reduced in writing. The
word complaint which occurred in previous two Codes of
1861 and 1872 was deleted and in that place the word
information was used in the Codes of 1882 and 1898
which word is now used in Sections 154, 155, 157 and
190(c) of the Code. An overall reading of all the Codes
makes it clear that the condition which is sine qua non for
recording a first information report is that there must be an
information and that information must disclose a
cognizable offence. (iv) The same principle was reiterated in K. Karunakaran v State
of Kerala , wherein the Honble apex Court, at para No.5, held as
under: (v) In Samaj Parivartan Samudaya v State of Karnataka , the
Honble apex Court, at para Nos.63 and 64, held as under: In our considered view, it enhances the primary and legal
duty of the State to ensure proper, fair and unbiased
investigation. 117. From a perusal of the ratio laid down in the above cases the
following principles can be deduced. a) Any person can set the criminal law into motion on
coming to know about the commission of a cognizable 
offence. b) No qualification is prescribed under the provisions of Cr.P.C or P.C. Act to set the criminal law in motion. c) A stranger or a third party to the criminal proceedings,
as a matter of right, is not entitled to intervene or
implead under the guise of public interest. d) If there is any substance in the allegations made in the
complaint, mala fides attributed or political affiliation of
the complainant are relegated to secondary or may be
ignored as the case may be. e) The Court has to meticulously scrutinise whether the
third party approached the Court bona fidely or not; for
that the Court has to unveil the mask of the public
interest. If the court comes to the conclusion that the
intervener is not an aggrieved person, and filed the
complaint for personal or political gain, then the Court
should not allow such persons to intervene in the
criminal proceedings. 118. The complaint starts with the quotation of Albert Einstein
which commenced with: 119. Lord Krishna expounded in Bhagavad-Gita contained in 
Chapter-IV Text (8): 120. In para No.5 of the counter, the second respondent has taken
a specific plea that he has been serving the poor and down trodden
since long time and fought even at the cost of his life whenever
there is breach of law. The second respondent, by referring the
above three quotations, made every attempt to create an impression
in the mind of the court that he approached the court motivated by
purity in thoughts, and with an open heart for the cause of others,
without any semblance of selfish or political motive. If any ordinary
prudent man has perused the averments in the complaint and the 
counter, it creates an impression as if the second respondent
approached the Court with the sole object of unearthing the truth
eventually to see that rule of law will prevail in the society. Whether
creating such an impression will withstand the judicial scrutiny or
not is the core issue. 121. Let me consider the facts of the case on hand in the light of
the above legal principles. At the cost of repetition, this Court is
inclined to refer a few facts. On 27.7.2015 the investigating agency
filed charge sheet against A.1 to A.4 on 29.8.2016, learned Special
Judge has taken cognizance of offences under Section 120-B of IPC
against A.1 to A.3. The prosecution also filed a memo stating that
investigation is in progress so far as A.5 and others are concerned.
The first respondent has taken a specific stand in the counter that
though the charge sheet is filed, still investigation is in progress. 122. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner has taken this
Court to the nomenclature of the complaint which reads,
Complaint filed in Cr.No.11/ACB-CR 1-HYD/2015 for the offences
punishable under Section 12 of the PC Act and Section 120-B of IPC.
He strenuously submitted that the second respondent will not fall
within the ambit of complainant and utmost he may be an
intervener or impleader. It is a settled principle of law that the
Court has to take into consideration the sum and substance of the
complaint and should not be carried away with the nomenclature of
the complaint. The relief sought in the complaint is as follows: 123. A perusal of the relief indicates that the second respondent
filed the complaint seeking the sole relief under Section 210 Cr.P.C.
Whether the second respondent has locus standi to file the
complaint or not depends on various aspects to be discussed infra.
It is not in dispute that the second respondent filed the complaint
in Cr.No.11/ACB-CR1-HYD/2015. 124. The complaint was filed on 08.08.2016, by which time, the
Investigating Officer laid charge sheet in the above crime before the
Special Court. The copy of the charge sheet was annexed as one of
the list of documents along with the complaint. For the reasons
best known, the second respondent did not mention in the
complaint about filing of the charge sheet, which has material
bearing on the issue. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner
magnified this aspect as if the second respondent approached the
Court by suppressing material facts. Even assuming but not
conceding that the second respondent intentionally and wilfully
concealed the factum of filing of the charge sheet, that itself is not a
sole ground to dismiss the complaint without considering the other
relevant aspects. However, the Court shall not lose sight of this
aspect. 125. The learned standing counsel for the first respondent
submitted that the second respondent made several allegations as
if the Investigating Agency has not conducted any investigation in
all these days. He further submitted that the Investigating Agency
is meticulously following the procedure so as to avoid the future
legal complications. His entire endeavour is to impress the Court
that the Investigating Agency is proceeding systematically by taking
assistance and aid of the Experts in the fields of science and
technology in order to unearth the truth as well as to ascertain the
involvement of others. He further submitted that if any hasty step
is taken by the Investigating Agency that may demolish the very
foundation of the investigation. The learned standing counsel
further submitted that the second respondent has not produced
any track record to convince this Court that he has been fighting
for the sake of poor and downtrodden by way of filing Public
Interest Litigation petitions. The gist of the submissions of the
learned counsel first respondent is that the second respondent has
no locus standi to file the complaint as he is no way connected with
the Crime. 126. In A.R.Antulay the complainant alone collected the material
and approached the Court due to apathy on the part of the
Investigating Agency. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner
also placed reliance on the decision in Subramanian Swamy. It is
not out of place to extract the relevant portion in para No.2 of
Subramanian Swamy, which reads thus: for the last more than three
years, the appellant has been vigorously pursuing, in the public interest,
the cases allegedly involving loss of thousand of crores of rupees to the
public exchequer due to arbitral and illegal grant of licence at the behest of
Mr. A.Raju-second respondent who was appointed as Minister of 
Communication and Information Technology by the President on the advice 
of Dr. Manhomhan Singh. This clearly indicates that the complainant
therein has collected the information on his own accord and filed
the complaint in public interest. In the case on hand, the second
respondent has not collected any new information, to justify his
intervention. As observed earlier, the complaint is nothing but
replica of the charge sheet filed by the ACB, except making some
bald allegations against the Investigating Agency and the petitioner.
The petitioner, who belongs to State of Andhra Pradesh, has no
control whatsoever over the administration of State of Telangana in
general and the ACB in particular. In such circumstances,
influencing the ACB, Telangana by the petitioner is only imaginary
of the second respondent. No specific allegation is made against
the ACB, Telangana, highlighting the laches if any on their part. It
is very easy to make bald and unfounded allegations against
anybody. If any information is placed before the Court in support of
such allegation, then the Court can take judicial notice of the same.
Mere making of allegations against the Investigating Agency and
the petitioner, without any substance, itself is not a sufficient
ground to allow the second respondent to come on record. 127. The second respondent has taken a specific stand in the
complaint that the silence on the part of the Investigating Agency
made him to step into the shoes of the Investigating Agency, which
abandoned its statutory duty and purposefully failed to conduct
basic investigation, nab and bring the prime offender. This clearly
indicates that the second respondent came forward to shoulder the
responsibility of investigation. It is the statutory duty of the
Investigating Agency to investigate into the cognizable offences. The
Investigating Agency has been discharging its duties on behalf of
the State. It is a settled principle of law that a private individual
cannot be entrusted with the responsibility of the investigation. A
private individual cannot be entrusted with the statutory duties.
For any reason, if a private individual is allowed to investigate a
case, which is already under investigation by the ACB,
undoubtedly, it creates a suspicion in the mind of the public as
well as it may affect the morality of the ACB. If the courts liberally
allow the private individuals, who has no interest whatsoever in the
case, to enter into the shoes of the Investigating Agency, the same
leads to chaos. The learned standing counsel for the first
respondent strenuously submitted that if the second respondent is
allowed to step into the shoes of ACB, Telangana, it is nothing but
intervening with the administrative affairs of the State of
Telangana, which is not permissible under law. The ACB filed a
Memo before the Special Court stating that the investigation is in
progress, which negates the contention of the second respondent
that the ACB abandoned its statutory duty. 128. As rightly pointed out by the learned standing counsel for the
first respondent if the persons like the second respondent are
allowed to intervene with the investigation, thousands of people
may also file similar type of petitions for intervening under the
guise of public interest. If everyone is allowed to intervene, without
scrutinising the bona fides and other relevant factors, there will be
no end point to the investigation. 129. It is the primary duty of the investigating agency to
investigate into the matter in order to unearth the truth. Fair and
proper investigation ensures the identification of perpetrator of the
crime. It is the statutory duty of the Investigating Agency to
conduct investigation on its own lines without any interruption
form any corner. If the Investigating Agency failed to discharge its
statutory duties, the aggrieved person will be the de-facto
complainant or his kith and kin if there is any legal disability on
the part of the de-facto complainant to pursue the proceedings. It is
not the case of the second respondent that the de-facto
complainant, in collusion with the Investigating Agency and the
petitioner, derailed the investigation in order to protect the
petitioner. The second respondent has not taken a specific plea in
the complaint as well as the counter filed in this criminal petition
that he is very much aware of Section 39 of Cr.P.C., but he has not
acted so. 130. In the State of Andhra Pradesh, TDP is in power and YSRCP 
is in the opposition. The petitioner is the Chief Minister of State of
Andhra Pradesh and belongs to TDP. The second respondent was 
elected as MLA from Mangalagiri Constituency in the State of
Andhra Pradesh on YSRCP ticket. The petitioner and the second 
respondent belong to two different rival political parties in the State
of Andhra Pradesh. The alleged incident has taken place in the
State of Telangana in connection with the elections to the
Legislative Council of the State of Telangana. Admittedly, the
second respondent is not one of the members of electoral rolls of
the Legislative Council in the State of Telangana. The alleged
incident neither directly nor indirectly or by necessary implication
would affect the second respondent in any manner even so
remotely. The de-facto complainant is a Member of Legislative
Assembly of State of Telangana who is pursuing the issue in his
own way. This Court is very much conscious of the scope of public
interest litigation. 131. In view of the prevailing scenario in the State of Andhra
Pradesh, the possibility of filing the complaint by the second
respondent in order to take political and personal vengeance
against the petitioner cannot be ruled out completely. It is not
uncommon to file petitions in the Court of law by the members of
political parties in order to attract the attention of the general
public and media regardless of the truthfulness or otherwise of the
allegations. Airing rumours and allegations, without any substance,
knowing fully well that those allegations will not withstand to
judicial scrutiny, is the order of the day. Therefore, a duty is cast
on the Courts to meticulously scrutinize the interveners petitions.
Access to justice and public interest litigations do not mean that
the Court of law can be used as a forum to take political and
personal vendetta. The underlying object of access to justice and
public interest litigation is to safeguard the interest of the persons
who are incapable of espousing their cause due to lack of financial
resources, lack of legal awareness or due to educational, social and
cultural backwardness. A person, who approached the court under
the guise of public interest with a hidden agenda, cannot be
permitted to use the court as a forum to settle the personal and
political scores. As per the ratio laid down in National Commission
For Women, Janata Dal and Simranjit Singh Mann, the second 
respondent will not fall within the ambit of aggrieved person. The
second respondent is altogether a stranger to the proceedings;
therefore, he is not legally entitled to intervene in the proceedings. 132. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and
also the principles enunciated in the cases cited supra, I am of the
considered view that the second respondent has no locus standi to
file the complaint. Whether the proceedings in CCSR No.958 of 2016 is 
liable to be quashed or not 133. The next question that falls for consideration is whether the
allegations made in the complaint prima facie constitute the offence
alleged to have been committed by the petitioner. 134. The contention of the learned senior counsel for the
petitioner is that the allegations made in the complaint do not
constitute the offence alleged to have been committed by the
petitioner. Per contra, the learned counsel for the second
respondent submitted that the allegations made in the complaint
prima facie constitute the alleged offence; therefore, the petition is
liable to be dismissed. He further submitted that the Court cannot
consider the evidentiary value of the material available on record at
this juncture. 135. To substantiate the argument, learned counsel for the second
respondent has drawn the attention of this court to the following
decisions: (ii) Taramani Prakash v State of M.P ., wherein the Honble
apex Court at para No.12 made an observation as follows: ( iii) State of Punjab v Dharam Singh , wherein the Honble apex
Court held that the Court can scrutinise the averments contained
in the FIR, but cannot traverse beyond and examine further. ( iv) State of Punjab v Devinder Kumar , wherein the Honble apex
Court, at para No.9, held as follows: 136. Let me consider the facts of the case, in the light of the above
legal principles. As per the allegations made in the complaint, the
second respondent sent the admitted voice of the petitioner along
with the disputed telephonic conversation to Helik Advisory,
Bombay for comparison and opinion. The said laboratory confirmed
that the voice in the disputed telephonic conversation matches with
the admitted voice of the petitioner. It is not explained how he got
such an admitted voice. 137. The sole basis for filing of the complaint is the alleged
telephonic conversation of the petitioner with de facto complainant.
There is no mention in the complaint or in the counter how the
second respondent secured the telephonic conversation. It is not
the case of the second respondent that he has obtained the same
from the Special Court or from the Investigating Agency or from any
other competent authority by following proper procedure. There is
no authenticity for the alleged telephonic conversation. In the
absence of any semblance of legal authenticity of the electronic
document, it is not safe to place reliance on it even for taking
cognizance of offence, when the same is the sole basis. 138. As observed earlier, the second respondent failed to establish
that he obtained copies of FIR, statements of witnesses, Section
164 Cr.P.C., statements and other documents from the Special 
Court by strictly adhering the procedure as contemplated under
Criminal Rules of Practice. The fact remains that the second
respondent filed the complaint by obtaining documents by other
means. 139. To appreciate the rival contentions, it is necessary to
consider the scope of Section 79-A of the Information Technology
Act. 79A. Central Government to notify Examiner of
Electronic Evidence: The Central Government may, for the
purposes of providing expert opinion on electronic form
evidence before any court or other authority specify, by
notification in the official Gazette, any department, body or
agency of the Central Government or a State Government as 
an Examiner of Electronic Evidence. Explanation:- For the purpose of this section, "Electronic
Form Evidence" means any information of probative value
that is either stored or transmitted in electronic form and
includes computer evidence, digital audio, digital video, cell
phones, digital fax machines". 140. A perusal of the above section clearly demonstrates that the
Central Government has to issue notification identifying any
department, body or agents of the Central Government or State
Government as an examiner of the electronic evidence. The
Parliament in its wisdom incorporated Section 79-A of the
Information Technology Act in order to prevent malicious
prosecution basing on the expert opinion given by unrecognized
bodies/laboratories. 141. Section 45-A of the Indian Evidence Act enables the Court to
send the electronic document to the expert for opinion, in order to
place reliance on it. To place any reliance on the opinion of an
Expert, the electronic document should have been sent to the
recognized laboratory through the Court. 142. It is not the case of the second respondent that the Central
Government has issued a Notification under Section 79-A of the I.T.
Act recognising Helik Advisory, Bombay, leave apart how the
second respondent got the alleged admitted voice of the petitioner.
Generally, admitted electronic documents and admitted signatures
will be taken in the open court by following the proper procedure.
Any document placed before the court without following the
procedure as stated supra cannot be treated as an admitted
electronic document. Recording voice of an individual on electronic
record without his knowledge or consent cannot be treated as his
admitted voice, in the eye of law. All these aspects cast a cloud on
the alleged telephonic conversation. 143. Even as per the decision relied upon by the learned counsel
for the second respondent in Umesh Kumar, it was observed at para
32 that, However, as a matter of caution, the court in exercise of its
discretion may disallow certain evidence in a criminal case if the strict
rules of admissibility would operate unfairly against the accused. More so,
the court must conclude that it is genuine and free from tampering or
mutilation.. 144. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner has drawn the
attention of this court in Dattaraj Nathuji Thaware, wherein the
Honble apex Court, at para No.16, held as under: 145. All these aspects clearly go to prove that the second
respondent got all the documents in an inappropriate manner. In
view of this factual scenario, if Courts place reliance on this type of
electronic documents, certainly, it would amount to encouraging
the litigant public to approach the unrecognized bodies of their
choice for their personal gain and file frivolous complaints of this
nature to take personal vendetta against their opponents, which
should be deprecated. If the second respondent had followed the
procedure contemplated under law, while collecting the documents
including the electronic documents, then there may be some
justification in his stand. 146. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and
also the principle enunciated in the cases cited supra, I am of the
considered view that it is unsafe to take cognizance of offence on
the complaint basing on the opinion alleged to have been given by
an unrecognised Expert/Laboratory on the electronic record which
authenticity is very much doubtful. 147. The complaint is filed under Section 12 of the PC Act and Section 120-B of IPC. Establishment of ingredients of Section 7 and 11 of the PC Act are sine qua non to press into service Section
12 of the PC Act. 148. Section 7 of the PC Act reads as under: 149. The gist of Section 7 of the PC Act is accepting or agreeing to
accept gratification other than the legal remuneration by a public
servant for doing or forbearing to do any official act in exercise of
his official functions. 150. Section 11 of the PC Act reads as under: 151. It is not the case of the second respondent that the de facto
complainant accepted valuable thing from the petitioner without
consideration or inadequate consideration. Therefore, Section 11 of
the PC Act has no application to the facts of the case. 152. Section 12 of the PC Act reads as under: 153. The abetment of an offence under Section 7 or 11 of the PC
Act is punishable under Section 12 of the PC Act. Let me consider
the facts of the case in the light of the above legal provisions. The
alleged episode started on 28.5.2015 and continued up to
31.5.2015. There is no allegation in the complaint that at the
instance of the petitioner the other accused approached the de-
facto complainant. No role was attributed to the petitioner up to
29.5.2015 and on 31.5.2015. The specific allegation made against
the petitioner in order to rope him in this criminal case is as
follows: 156. It is the case of the second respondent that at the instigation
of the petitioner, the other accused approached the de facto
complainant, who is a public servant, and offered bribe either to
cast his vote in favour of TDP candidate or to leave the country by
abstaining from voting. There is no specific allegation in the
complaint that the petitioner conspired with other accused prior to
28.5.2015 and in pursuance of which the other accused
approached the de facto complainant. It is not the case of the
second respondent that the role alleged to have been played by the
petitioner reflects in the FIR. Even if the alleged conversation is
taken into consideration, the petitioner did not offer bribe to the de-
facto complainant. The petitioner did not ask the de-facto
complainant either to vote in favour of TDP candidate or abstain
from voting by leaving the country. 157. The learned counsel for the second respondent mainly placed
reliance on the words what all they spoke will honour from the
alleged telephonic conversion. The learned counsel for the second
respondent submitted that these words are sufficient to prove the
complicity of the petitioner. It is needless to say that a particular
sentence cannot be read or interpreted in isolation of the other
part. A duty is cast on the Court to consider the entire allegations
made in the complaint in order to arrive at a just and reasonable
conclusion. The Court shall not lose sight of the following words
freely you can decide; no problem at all also. Even assuming but
not conceding that the alleged conversation is a genuine one, this
itself falsifies the case of the second respondent that the petitioner
is one of the conspirators of the alleged crime. The allegations
made in the complaint are bereft of the ingredients of Section 12 of
the PC Act and Section 120-B of IPC. In such circumstances,
forcing the petitioner to face the rigour of criminal trial is nothing
but abuse of process of law and amounting to miscarriage of
justice. 158. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that
exercising of franchise will not fall within the ambit of public duty;
therefore, registration of case under the PC Act itself is not
maintainable. In support of his contention, he relied on the ratio laid down in Kuldip Nayar and Others vs. Union of India . Per
contra, learned counsel for the second respondent submitted that
offering of bribe to influence a public servant to vote in favour of a
particular party also attract the provisions of the PC Act . In support
of his contention, learned counsel for the second respondent placed
reliance on the decisions in Ajit Pramod Kumar Jogi vs. Union of
India , P.V.Narasimha Rao vs. Union of India , Damodar Krishna
Kamli vs. State of the Bombay High Court and Bhimsingh vs.
State of Rajasthan High Court. 159. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also drawn
the attention of this Court to paragraph No.48 of the order passed
by the coordinate Bench of this Court in Crl.P.No.5520 of 2015, to
convince this Court that basing on those observations it is a fit case
to quash the proceedings against the petitioner. Para No.48 of the
order passed in the above case reads as follows: 160. At this juncture, the learned standing counsel for the first
respondent submitted that the ACB, State of Telangana has 
preferred SLP No.5248 of 2016 before the Honble apex Court
challenging the order in Criminal Petition No.5520 of 2016,
quashing the criminal proceedings against A.4, and in view of the
pendency of the matter before the Honble apex Court in SLP
No.5248 of 2016, it is not just and proper to decide that issue in
this case. The learned counsel for all the parties submitted that
the Honble apex Court has not granted stay in the S.L.P. No.5248
of 2016 or suspended the orders in Criminal Petition No.5520 of
2016. Unless and until the order passed in Criminal Petition
No.5520 of 2016 is set aside or modified by the Honble apex Court,
the same holds good. Hence, it is not fair on the part of this Court
to express any opinion on this issue. 161. In State of Haryana v Bhajanlal , the Honble apex Court at
para No.105 (of Manupatra), held as follows: 162. The Apex Court in R.P.Kapur v. State of Punjab , at para 6,
held as hereunder: Absence of the requisite sanction may, for instance, furnish
cases under this category. Cases may also arise where the
allegations in the First Information Report or the complaint,
even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in
their entirety, do not constitute the offence alleged; in such
cases no question of appreciating evidence arises; it is a
matter merely of looking at the complaint or the First
Information Report to decide whether the offence alleged is
disclosed or not. In such cases it would be legitimate for the
High Court to hold that it would be manifestly unjust to
allow the process of the criminal court to be issued against
the accused person. A third category of cases in which the
inherent jurisdiction of the High Court can be successfully
invoked may also arise. In cases falling under this category
the allegations made against the accused person do
constitute an offence alleged but there is either no legal
evidence adduced in support of the case or evidence
adduced clearly or manifestly fails to prove the charge. In
dealing with this class of cases it is important to bear in
mind the distinction between a case where there is no legal
evidence or where there is evidence which is manifestly and
clearly inconsistent with the accusation made and cases
where there is legal evidence which on its appreciation may
or may not support the accusation in question. In
exercising its jurisdiction under s. 561-A the High Court
would not embark upon an enquiry as to whether the
evidence in question is reliable or not. That is the function
of the trial magistrate, and ordinarily it would not be open
to any party to invoke the High Court's inherent jurisdiction
and contend that on a reasonable appreciation of the
evidence the accusation made against the accused would 
not be sustained. Broadly stated that is the nature and
scope of the inherent jurisdiction of the High Court under s.
561-A in the matter of quashing criminal proceedings, and
that is the effect of the judicial decisions on the point (Vide : Gobind Bandhu Majumdar MANU/ WB/0215/1923 : 163. In Guruduth Prabhu, Mysore Bench of Karnataka High Court, 
at para No.11, held as follows. 11. We have also found in this case that the
complaints filed by the complainants is manifestly tainted
with mala fides and instituted maliciously with an ulterior
motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused with a view
to spike them due to private and personal grudge. When
such is the circumstance which is disclosed from the
materials on record, it is not only empowers this Court to
interfere in the interest of justice, but it is the duty of this
Court to nip such an investigation in the bud. The principle enunciated in the cases cited supra is squarely
applicable to the facts of the case on hand. Epilogue (i) The provisions of the PC Act do not exclude the
invocation of jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C.,
either expressly or by necessary implication. (ii) An interlocutory order passed under the provisions of the PC Act is amenable to Section 482 Cr.P.C., despite bar of
revision under Section 19(3)(c) of the PC Act. (iii) An order passed under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C., is a
judicial order, as it requires application of mind by the
learned Magistrate or the learned Special Judge, as the
case may be. (iv) An order passed under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C., by the
learned Magistrate or the learned Special Judge without
application of mind is liable to be quashed under Section
482 Cr.P.C. (v) If the impugned order is allowed to stand, the ACB, State
of Telangana has no option except to register the second
FIR basing on the same set of facts, which is not
permissible under law. (vi) The impugned order under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C., is
passed for investigation and report and not to call for the
preliminary report as contemplated under Section 202(1)
Cr.P.C. (vii) For one reason or the other, the second respondent has
not challenged the impugned order and thereby allowed
the same to become final so far as he is concerned. (viii) Having done so, the second respondent is now estopped 
to put the clock back and claim relief under Section 210
Cr.P.C. (ix) The main relief sought by the second respondent in the
complaint is contrary to the underlying object of Section
210 Cr.P.C. (x) The second respondent has no locus standi to intervene
in Crime No.11/ACB-CR 1-HYD/2015 by way of filing 
complaint. (xi) Even if the allegations made in the complaint are ex facie
taken to be true and correct, they do not constitute any
offence much less the offence alleged to have been
committed by the petitioner under Section 12 of the PC
Act and Section 120-B of IPC. 164. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case
and also the principles enunciated in the cases referred supra, the
criminal petition is allowed quashing the impugned order dated
29.8.2016 and the proceedings in CCSR No.958 of 2016 in Crime 
No.11/ACB-CR-1-HYD/2015 on the file of the Court of the
Principal Special Judge for SPE and ACB cases, Hyderabad. 
Miscellaneous petitions, if any pending in this criminal petition,
shall stand closed. _____________________________ 
Justice T.Sunil Chowdary
Date: 09.12.2016