% 30.09.2024 1. The present application is filed seeking grant of pre-arrest
 bail in FIR No. 39/2024 dated 08.02.2024 registered at Police
 Station Special Cell, Delhi for offences punishable under Sections 419 / 420 / 384 / 170 / 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
 (' IPC '). 2. The FIR in the present case was registered at the instance
 of the complainant namely, Suruchi Gautam who alleged that on
 02.01.2024 at around 3pm, she received a call from a person
 allegedly claiming to be from the Cyber Police, Lucknow. It is
 alleged that the said person informed the complainant that he had
 received a parcel allegedly booked using the complainant's
 Aadhar Card which contained some illegal documents and drugs.
 It is the case of the prosecution that the complainant was digitally
 arrested on 02.01.2024 on the premise that her documents had
 been used in booking parcel allegedly containing narcotic
 substances, and a sum of ₹50.10 lakhs was extorted from the
 complainant from three different bank accounts. It is alleged that BAIL APPLN. 3531/2024 Page 1 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/10/2024 at 22:53:24
 out of the said amount, a sum of ₹5 lakh was transferred in the
 account of one Salim Saifi, who, during the course of
 interrogation, disclosed that he had given his account credentials
 and SIM Card to the applicant. 3. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the
 applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case. He
 submits that no role has been attributed to the applicant in the
 FIR. He submits that pursuant to the notice under Section 41A of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' CrPC '), the applicant
 has already joined the investigation. He submits that the bank
 account in which the alleged cheated amount was transferred was
 not operated by the applicant. He submits that the applicant is not
 the beneficiary of the cheated amount, and prays that the
 applicant be granted the relief of pre-arrest bail. 4. Per contra, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for
 the State opposes the grant of any relief to the applicants. He
 submits that the allegations against the applicant are serious in
 nature. He submits that the learned Additional Sessions Judge
 rightly rejected the bail of the applicant, and that there is no
 ground to interfere with the same. 5. He submits that the cheated amount of ₹5 lakh was
 transferred in the account of Salim Saifi, who during
 interrogation, disclosed that he gave the account detail and SIM
 card to the applicant. He submits that the applicant was operating
 the bank accounts in which the money was received through the
 SIM card linked with the beneficiary account in his device. He
 submits that the applicant was using different SIM cards in his
 handset, and the CDR analysis of the SIM Card linked to the
 beneficiary account revealed that the same was used in the
 handset of the applicant. He submits that the applicant is not BAIL APPLN. 3531/2024 Page 2 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/10/2024 at 22:53:24
 cooperating with the investigation. He submits that the mobile
 phone of the applicant, which the applicant was also directed to
 produce, is involved in the money transaction. 6. It is to be kept in mind that the investigation is currently at
 a nascent stage. The considerations governing the grant of pre-
 arrest bail are materially different than those to be considered
 while adjudicating application for grant of regular bail, as in the
 latter case, the accused is already under arrest and substantial
 investigation is carried out by the investigating agency. 7. It is trite law that the power to grant a pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the CrPC is extraordinary in nature and is to be
 exercised sparingly. Thus, pre-arrest bail cannot be granted in a
 routine manner. The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of State of
 A.P. v. Bimal Krishna Kundu : (1997) 8 SCC 104, held as
 under: "8.A three-Judge Bench of this Court has stated inPokar
 Ramv.State of Rajasthan[(1985) 2 SCC 597 : 1985 SCC
 (Cri) 297 : AIR 1985 SC 969] : (SCC p. 600, para 5)
 "5. Relevant considerations governing the court's
 decision in granting anticipatory bail under Section
 438 are materially different from those when an
 application for bail by a person who is arrested in the
 course of investigation as also by a person who is
 convicted and his appeal is pending before the higher
 court and bail is sought during the pendency of the
 appeal." 9.Similar observations have been made by us in a recent
 judgment in State v. Anil Sharma [(1997) 7 SCC 187 : 1997
 SCC (Cri) 1039 : JT (1997) 7 SC 651] : (SCC pp. 189-90,
 para 8)
 "The consideration which should weigh with the
 Court while dealing with a request for anticipatory
 bail need not be the same as for an application to
 release on bail after arrest." xxx xxx xxx 12. We are strongly of the opinion that this is not a case for
 exercising the discretion under Section 438 in favour of
 granting anticipatory bail to the respondents. It is
 disquieting that implications of arming the respondents,
 when they are pitted against this sort of allegations involving BAIL APPLN. 3531/2024 Page 3 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/10/2024 at 22:53:25
 well-orchestrated conspiracy, with a pre-arrest bail order,
 though subject to some conditions, have not been taken into
 account by the learned Single Judge. We have absolutely no
 doubt that if the respondents are equipped with such an
 order before they are interrogated by the police it would
 greatly harm the investigation and would impede the
 prospects of unearthing all the ramifications involved in the
 conspiracy. Public interest also would suffer as a
 consequence. Having apprised himself of the nature and
 seriousness of the criminal conspiracy and the adverse
 impact of it on "the career of millions of students", learned
 Single Judge should not have persuaded himself to exercise
 the discretion which Parliament had very thoughtfully
 conferred on the Sessions Judges and the High Courts
 through Section 438 of the Code, by favouring the
 respondents with such a pre-arrest bail order." 8. It is settled law that the custodial interrogation is
 qualitatively more elicitation oriented than questioning a suspect
 who is well ensconced with a favourable order under Section 438 of the CrPC [State v. Anil Sharma : (1997) 7 SCC 187]. An
 order of bail cannot be granted in a routine manner so as to allow
 the applicant to use the same as a shield. 9. The applicant in the present case is alleged to have used a
 SIM card in his mobile phone which was linked to the
 beneficiary account in which the cheated sum of ₹5 lakh was
 received. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused Saleem
 Saifi, on interrogation, had revealed that he had given his account
 credentials (to which the cheated sum of ₹5 lakh was received)
 and SIM card linked to the bank account to the applicant through
 co-accused Manoj Mahale. 10. It has been averred that during the course of investigation,
 the applicant had initially stated that he had not used the
 beneficiary bank account or the sim card linked to the beneficiary
 bank account number. As per the CDR analysis, however, it was
 found that the said SIM number was being used in the same
 handset that was being used by the applicant. The investigation BAIL APPLN. 3531/2024 Page 4 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/10/2024 at 22:53:25
 conducted thus far has also unearthed that the applicant was in
 constant touch with co-accused Manoj Mahale who was arrested
 on 17.09.2024 on account of non-cooperation in the
 investigation. The investigation further revealed that as many as
 393 calls were made between the applicant, and co-accused
 Manoj Mahale. 11. It is also the case of the prosecution that despite notice
 under Section 41A of the CrPC, the applicant failed to join
 investigation on 25.09.2024. 12. The learned ASJ vide order dated 26.09.2024 dismissed
 the application filed by the application seeking grant of pre-arrest
 bail. It was noted that the applicant was given opportunity to join
 the investigation, and was directed to bring his bank account
 details alongwith the details of virtual accounts, however, the
 applicant failed to produce the said documents. It was also noted
 that contrary to what was stated by the applicant to the IO, the
 applicant had used the account of Salim Saifi, and the phone
 number linked to the beneficiary bank account of Salim Saifi was
 used in the phone of the applicant. 13. The relief of pre-arrest bail is a legal safeguard intended to
 protect individuals from potential misuse of power of arrest. It
 plays a crucial tool in preventing harassment and unjust detention
 of innocent persons. However, the court must carefully balance
 the individual's right to liberty with the interests of justice. While
 the presumption of innocence and the right to liberty are
 fundamental principles of law, they must be considered in
 conjunction with the gravity of the offence, its societal impact,
 and the need for a comprehensive and unobstructed investigation. 14. Cyber crimes are on the rise and the same tend to be
 significantly harder to crack due to the boon of technology that is BAIL APPLN. 3531/2024 Page 5 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/10/2024 at 22:53:26
 effectively misused by crooks to wreak havoc and evade the law
 enforcement. The task of the Investigating Agency seems
 arduous and they need to be given a fair play in the joints to
 investigate the matter in the manner they deem appropriate. The
 matter requires thorough investigation which ought not to be
 curtailed by passing an order granting pre-arrest bail. 15. Considering the material on record, it cannot be held at
 this stage that the investigation is being carried out with the
 intention to injure or humiliate the applicant. The nature and
 gravity of allegations are serious. Specific allegations have been
 made regarding the applicant's alleged involvement in the
 commission of the offence. 16. The investigation conducted thus, so far does not indicate
 that the applicant is sought to be falsely implicated. The material
 presented by the prosecution establishes a prima facie
 involvement of the applicant. Granting pre-arrest bail to the
 applicant would undoubtedly impede further investigation. 17. Considering the above, and the nature of the offence, no
 ground for grant of pre-arrest bail to the applicant is made out. 18. The present application is accordingly dismissed. 19. It is clarified that any observations made in the present
 order are for the purpose of deciding the present bail application
 and should not influence the outcome of the Trial and also not be
 taken as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 SEPTEMBER 30, 2024
 "SS" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/10/2024 at 22:53:26