1. Heard Sri Kuldeep Kumar, learned counsel for the applicant and learned A.G.A for the Sate. 2. The instant bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Sanjay Kumar, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 159 of 2023, under Sections- 376-D, 504, 506 IPC and Section 5G / 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, Police Station- Jani, District- Meerut. 3. There is allegation against the applicant and co-accused, Sagar, that the applicant enticed away the minor daughter of the informant, committed rape, made her obscene photographs and video from his mobile phone and by blackmailing her on its basis called her to a hotel and committed repeated offence of rape along with co-accused and threatened her of life in case she disclosed anything. The applicant called from his mobile phone on the mobile phone of the informant and threatened his daughter to bring her younger sister also again this time otherwise her objectionable video shall be made viral. Thereafter his daughter informed her mother and then he came to know of the same and lodged FIR on 21.05.2023. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that it is a case of false implication. The victim was always a consenting party but on account of pressure of her family members she has falsely implicated the applicant. The applicant is in jail since 24.05.2023 and has no criminal history to his credit. 5. Learned A.G.A has vehemently opposed the bail application of the applicant. 6. After hearing the rival contentions, this Court finds that from the statement before the doctor and statement recorded under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C., the victim had made clear allegation against the applicant of committing the offence of rape by blackmailing her. As per high school certificate the victim is minor. It is not a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant at this stage. 7. The bail application is accordingly, rejected. 8. The trial court is directed to conclude the trial against the applicant as expeditiously as possible, preferable within a period of one year from the date of production of certified copy of this order. Order Date :- 17.08.2023 
 
Rohit